1 2013-04-01 Even as the value of goods produced in the United States has grown as a share of the economy, the need for workers to make them has shrunk. The total number of jobs dedicated to manufacturing peaked in the late 1970s and now accounts for less than 9 percent of all jobs.
2 2013-04-01 The Nikon Coolpix A is the latest compact camera with a big sensor to hit the market. But something is missing here....
3 2013-04-01 MTV has suspended production on its reality series “Buckwild” in the wake of news that a cast member, Shain Gandee, was found dead....
4 2013-04-01 The parent company of the Nasdaq stock exchange said Tuesday that it would buy the electronic bond-trading platform eSpeed for $750 million, amid consolidation in the industry....
5 2013-04-01 A 16-day program, driven by a government mandate, teaches potential board candidates about corporate governance and lets them form networks....
6 2013-04-01 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
7 2013-04-01 Many fans remember Freddy Schuman at the stadium carrying signs and banging on a pot with a wooden spoon he bought at a nearby thrift store....
8 2013-04-01 A 135-year tradition at the White House was marked by the president’s dismal basketball performance, while families affected by gun violence joined thousands of revelers....
9 2013-04-01 For instance, the commercial — which can be watched on the special Web site, stophonkaholism.com, as well as on television — starts with an angry man behind the wheel of a car at a crosswalk, is honking loudly as bewildered children stare.

“Is your honking out of control?” a calm-voiced announcer asks. “You might be showing signs of honkaholism.”

“Now you can put an end to all the beeping honking,” the announcer continues, “with the 76 Honk Suppressor.” The reference is to the giveaway item, a toy shaped like a hockey puck that bears a resemblance to the Easy button from the Staples retail chain.

At the center of the Honk Suppressor, which can be attached to a dashboard, is a piece of red rubber or plastic bearing the 76 brand logo; when pressed down upon, it makes a bleating sound like a child’s doll or a dog’s squeaky toy.

The Honk Suppressor is “the perfectly safe honking alternative,” the announcer declares, “designed to wean even the most beeping honkers off their beeping.”

On screen, the angry man’s wife gives him a Honk Suppressor as he is driving off to work the next morning. Now he is a formerly angry man, poking his Honk Suppressor vigorously as an elderly woman slowly crosses the street in front of him.

As the woman smiles and waves, an expression crosses the man’s face that seems to say, “I’m O.K. with this.”

The announcer concludes, “Order yours free at stophonkaholism.com,” then finishes up with “We’re on the driver’s side.”

Taking a stance against unnecessary horn-honking is another step toward helping “to put a more human face on” the 76 brand, says Tami Walker, manager for brand management at the Phillips 66 Company in Houston, as part of the “We’re on the driver’s side” campaign.

The genesis of the campaign was attitudes among drivers who “think all fuel brands are the same,” Ms. Walker says, or “don’t think much about fuel brands.”

“As proud as we are to sell the top-tier fuels that we do,” she adds -- echoing a line from 76 ads about its status as “top-tier gas” — “the thing most valuable to us about the car is the person behind the wheel.”

The pleas against honking come after other aspects of the campaign that include humorous apps meant to “get people through hard times,” Ms. Walker says, among them the Ticket Talker 3000, which “gives you a lot of excuses” to offer law enforcement officers if you are stopped for speeding; the Why Stopper, intended to answer all the “Why?” questions children ask; and the Quiet Game, based on the old joke among long-suffering parents on road trips.

“We know as a brand and as a fuel brand, to endear ourselves to the driving public our behavior ought to speak louder than words,” she adds.

Also, as a brand sold on the West Coast, Ms. Walker says, home to Hollywood and other entertainment meccas, 76 ought to try to “interrupt the everyday routine with just a little bit of fun.”

And 76 is “the only brand I know that had Marilyn Monroe and Farrah Fawcett in advertisements,” she adds, referring to commercials for predecessor brands, Union Oil and Union 76, with Monroe and Fawcett (the latter, interestingly, complaining about how the horn in her car would not stop honking).

The desire to make the initiative entertaining is evident throughout the stophonkaholism.com Web site, where visitors can play a game called Honk or Not, perform a “honkervention” with someone who has a “honking problem” and check the schedule for visits by a bus decorated to promote the “Stop Honkaholism” cause.

The mirth even extends to the “mouse type” on the special Web site. “Just fill in your information and we will send you a free 76 Honk Suppressor while supplies last,” the tiny text reads. “We promise to never share your information with any third parties, slumber parties or even retirement parties.”

The concept of trying to entertain or amuse consumers while trying to peddle gasoline to them runs counter to the “two predominant strategies” used by gasoline marketers, according to Jonathan Byrne, creative director on the Phillips 66 Company account at Venables Bell: “Confuse people with science no one really cares about. Or take an environmental stand no one really believes.”

“This is a way to do good things for people,” he adds, “and get into some fun, pop culture territory.”

“Useful is cool, so we’ve always tried to be useful to drivers on the road,” Mr. Byrne says, and research among “drivers on the West Coast, especially Southern California,” identified that horn-honking was “a rampant, out-of-control thing.”

“We are taking a tongue-in-cheek approach, but we do hope to make people think about it,” he adds. “Even though we are all culprits at times, we all want to see a better world with less honking.”

The response to the initiative so far has been “great,” Mr. Byrne says, with almost 60,000 orders for Honk Suppressors.

“Having an artifact of a brand campaign in the hands of consumers is definitely a goal for any brand,” he adds, recalling fondly the antenna balls that 76 distributed to consumers years ago.

As for what may come next in the campaign, “it’ll always start with what’s going to help the driver,” according to Mr. Byrne, in realms like relieving road stress after commutes.

If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com. And read coverage anytime of advertising, marketing, television, print, movies and new media on the Media Decoder blog at mediadecoder.blogs.nytimes.com.
10 2013-04-01 Coca-Cola, sold by the Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, was the best-selling carbonated soft drink in the United States last year, according to the annual report of top 10 soda brands by Beverage Digest. Coca-Cola’s share was flat at 17 percent, Beverage Digest reported, followed by a sibling brand, Diet Coke, in second place with 9.4 percent, down 0.2 percent from 2011; and Pepsi-Cola, sold by PepsiCo, in third place with 8.9 percent, down 0.3 percent. The total amount of soda consumed last year by Americans fell 1.2 percent from 2011, in the eighth consecutive year of declines.

Darcars Automotive Group, Silver Spring, Md., which operates more than 30 auto dealer franchises in the metropolitan Washington area, selected RP3 Agency, Bethesda, Md., as its agency of record. Billings were not disclosed. The assignment had previously been handled by Caps Lock Communications, Pittsburgh.

Fingerpaint Marketing, Saratoga Springs, N.Y., hired two employees for its account service department, Matthew Geandreau and Tara Mahnk. The agency also hired three other employees: Will Crain, who joins the creative team; Jessica Vedder, who joins the project management team; and Cathie Wright, who joins the account service team.

John Fitzgerald, president of the Winston-Salem, N.C., office of Mullen, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, will retire, the agency said, effective in the summer. Taylor Bryant, managing director of the office, will succeed him, working with Jason Black, executive creative director.

Mike Goefft joined the San Francisco office of Doremus, part of the Omnicom Group, in a new post, executive director for strategic partnerships. He had most recently been senior vice president and group account director at Deutsch Los Angeles, which is the Marina del Rey, Calif., office of Deutsch, part of the Lowe & Partners division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Ray Gottschalk joined the Los Angeles office of Trisect in a new post, executive vice president and managing director, working with Tom Stiefermann, executive vice president for planning and strategy. Mr. Gottschalk had been executive vice president and managing director at Alcone, part of the Omnicom Group, overseeing West Coast operations from the Los Angeles office.

Anette Hughes joined AvatarLabs, Los Angeles, in a new post, creative director. She had been vice president for interactive and executive creative director at the Cimarron Group, Hollywood, Calif.

Bernard Leifer, president and chief executive at the SG Companies, was chosen by the board of the International Licensing Industry Merchandisers’ Association, known as L.I.M.A., for induction into the L.I.M.A. Licensing Industry Hall of Fame. He will be honored during the organization’s annual awards ceremony, to be held on June 18 during Licensing Expo 2013 in Las Vegas.

Tamra Lichtman joined TuneCore, New York, in a new post, chief marketing officer. She had been chief operating officer at BuySaveGive.com, Trumbull, Conn.

Jason Lundy joined Departures magazine, New York, in a new post, vice president and associate publisher for marketing. He had most recently been senior vice president of global marketing for the Belvedere vodka brand at LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton. Departures is part of the American Express Publishing Corporation, which is a unit of the American Express Company, and managed by the Time Inc. unit of Time Warner.

Martin/Williams Advertising, Minneapolis, part of the Martin/Williams unit of the Omnicom Group, hired four employees. They are Brett Essman, art director; Alexandra Hart, media planner; Dustin Joyce, art director; and Megan Kell, account supervisor.

Peter Mertz joined Zambesi, Los Angeles, in a new post, director for digital. He had been head of digital at Elastic.

Erin Mulligan Nelson joined the Dachis Group, Austin, Tex., in a new post, president. She had most recently been chief marketing officer at Bazaarvoice, Austin.

Tonia O’Connor, president for distribution sales and marketing at Univision Communications, New York, was named president for content distribution and corporate business development, leading a new corporate business development group.

Fernanda Pucheu joined Hearst Digital Media, New York, part of the Hearst Corporation, as executive director for marketing services. She succeeds Laura Schooling, who became chief marketing officer at a Hearst sibling, the Jumpstart Automotive Group. Ms. Pucheu had most recently been vice president for interactive sales development and strategy at Univision Communications.

Rockfon, Milton, Ontario, a division of Rockwool International that sells ceiling tiles, hired Eric Mower & Associates Group B2B, part of Eric Mower & Associates, Syracuse, as its first agency for integrated marketing assignments that will include introducing the Rockfon brand in North America, public relations, digital marketing and direct marketing. Spending has not been determined. The efforts will be aimed at three markets: architecture and design, building and construction, and contractors and installers.

Anne Saulnier joined Camp & King, San Francisco, part of the Havas Creative division of Havas, in a new post, director for operations. She had most recently been senior vice president and director for creative operations at BBDO New York, part of the BBDO Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group.

Seattle Cancer Care Alliance Proton Therapy, formed recently by the Seattle ProCure Center and the Seattle Cancer Care Alliance, hired Frank Unlimited, Seattle, as its first advertising agency of record. Spending was estimated at $1.6 million.

Fred Shank joined Porter Novelli, New York, part of the Omnicom Group, in a new post, senior vice president in the consumer practice. He had been a vice president at Edelman, New York, part of Daniel J. Edelman Inc.

Elizabeth Shanklin joined SapientNitro West, Santa Monica, Calif., part of the SapientNitro unit of Sapient, in a new post, vice president for client services. She had most recently been senior vice president for client services and marketing strategy at the Genex unit of MXM.
11 2013-04-01 There are a number of theories about why official Chinese media outlets are attacking Apple. And while many Chinese commentators online are mocking the state media, the company does appear to have a problem with Beijing....
12 2013-04-01 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
13 2013-04-01 A wave of e-commerce companies are trying to build premium brands at discount prices by cutting out middlemen and going straight to manufacturers, Claire Cain Miller and Stephanie Clifford report Monday in The New York Times....
14 2013-04-01 The home builder Taylor Morrison said on Monday that it planned to raise as much as $602 million in an initial public offering, seeking to take advantage of a nascent revival in the housing markets....
15 2013-04-01 A judge’s dismissal of the bulk of the claims filed by private plaintiffs against banks involved in a rate-manipulation scandal is certainly a major victory, but the banks should not get too far ahead of themselves....
16 2013-04-01 The stock market closes at a record high. Daily deals are no longer driving restaurant traffic. You may now power up your electronic devices. But are your ducks in a row?...
17 2013-04-01 An Astros fan caught in the rain outside Minute Maid Park, where Houston opened the season against Texas....
18 2013-04-01 D. A. Points came back from a long rain delay and made four pars Sunday, the last one giving him a one-shot victory in the Houston Open and a trip to the Masters. With a putter he once borrowed from his mother and never returned, Points rolled in a putt from just outside 12 feet on the final hole to polish off a six-under 66 and avoid a sudden-death playoff with Henrik Stenson and Billy Horschel.

It was quite a turnaround for Points, whose only other PGA Tour win was at Pebble Beach two years ago. He started the year by missing the cut seven times in nine tournaments. He arrived at the tournament at Redstone Golf Club in Humble, Texas, having not broken 70 in his last nine rounds. But he stayed in the hunt after opening with a 64, and he kept his calm when he returned to the golf course after a rain delay of nearly three hours.
19 2013-04-01 “He took care of me until I got up and running,” Cashman said. “The first 10 days was tough because I had a different cast on and I had so much swelling. Getting around was a lot tougher even than it is now.”

His recent ordeal is only the latest example of how Cashman has emerged as an engaging character in recent years. He is one of the most outspoken general managers in the game, and his feats of daring — like rappelling down the side of an office building in Stamford, Conn., and jumping out of an Army plane high above Homestead, Fla. — illustrate a fearless streak.

Long before he gained attention for scaling buildings and parachuting, Cashman dived into deep seas as a scuba diver. But with his leg in a cast, his thrill-seeking pursuits were shelved.

“This kind of grounded everything,” he said. “No going out for dinner, even. It all became so difficult.”

The one thing he could do, he said, was stay home and play the guitar, a skill he has undertaken recently with the encouragement of Eppler, and work.

Cashman’s crutches, and his scooter, were previously used by Derek Jeter, the star shortstop, who underwent surgery in October to repair a broken left ankle and needed his own help getting around.

Jeter was expected to be back on opening day, Monday against the Boston Red Sox, but typical of these Yankees, he will start the season on the disabled list because of lingering soreness in his ankle. Alex Rodriguez, the $275 million third baseman, is expected to miss at least half the season recovering from hip surgery. Cashman signed Kevin Youkilis to hold Rodriguez’s spot until he returns, which is not expected to be before the All-Star break.

Jeter is not expected to miss nearly so much time, so the team just plugged in the backup shortstop Eduardo Nunez for now. But Cashman did not have similar in-house options for first baseman Mark Teixeira or outfielder Curtis Granderson. Those stars are expected to miss at least the first month of the season, Teixeira with a strained wrist tendon and Granderson with a broken arm. Both injuries occurred during spring training, as did Jeter’s ankle soreness.

So it was left to an injured general manager to replace injured players, and with his leg elevated, Cashman set to work finding understudies. In the last few weeks, he added outfielders Ben Francisco, Brennan Boesch and Vernon Wells, and first baseman Lyle Overbay, who was signed less than a week before the end of spring training.

Despite his impairment, Cashman was as busy over the last several days of spring training as he has been in other years, scanning major league camps for viable alternatives who might be cut loose by their teams.

“I guess we had to look at more because we had more needs,” Cashman said Friday while standing on his crutches on the field at Nationals Park in Washington. “We had to be more open-minded than we’ve had to in the past. But when you have the type of injuries we’ve had, you’re forced to be that way.”

Cashman will be in the cast for another several weeks. He is hoping that by the time it is removed, most of his injured players will be back, too. Perhaps, then, the season can begin in earnest.

The Yankees submitted their 25-man roster, including the recent additions Lyle Overbay, Brennan Boesch, Ben Francisco, Vernon Wells, Cesar Cabral and Shawn Kelley. Clay Rapada was designated for assignment. ... Opening day ceremonies Monday will include a tribute to Newtown, Conn., first responders. Lou Piniella will throw out the first pitch.
20 2013-04-01 Ms. Sanchez said in an interview Friday that the warmth of the welcome she has received here has exceeded her expectations. “I am finding Cuba outside of Cuba,” she said, in Spanish. “I was raised in Cuba and indoctrinated that the exiles were the enemy, that they had betrayed the country. And here I am, seeing Cubans preserving Cuba, preserving the culture, the history, the music.”

Working from her Havana apartment, Ms. Sanchez, 37, has spent years writing dispatches on the island’s stifling contradictions, the absurdities of everyday life under the Communist system and the lack of freedom and human rights. The Internet and the USB drives that Cubans use to share information have been her chief ally.

She named her blog Generación Y, a nod to Cubans her age who were given names beginning with Y at a time when the Soviet Union held greater sway over the island. The blog receives millions of hits a month, the vast majority from people outside the island because Cuba restricts Internet access. She also has 459,000 Twitter followers.

Ms. Sanchez has been arrested, detained, beaten and harassed for speaking out against prohibitions on freedom of expression and freedom of the press. She is fond of saying that the rights of citizens are not gifts from the government but, as the phrase makes clear, “rights” that are inherent.

For five years, Ms. Sanchez tried to obtain permission to travel outside of Cuba but was denied until now. President Raúl Castro recently eliminated travel restrictions for many Cubans and the government chose to grant her permission to travel, too. Her 80-day tour has brought her to three continents, where she has given speeches and received a string of awards and recognitions.

Rosa de la Cruz, one of Miami’s most prominent art collectors, said that two years ago she dedicated a room in the museum-like building that houses the de la Cruz Collection to videos of Ms. Sanchez. The collection also hands out copies of Ms. Sanchez’s book, “Havana Real.”

“She is a positive person, not a negative one,” said Mrs. de la Cruz, who supports the economic embargo but also views the push for human rights in Cuba as paramount. “And it’s important to be positive. It has been very difficult for her to do this in Cuba. And she has said if she had to do it again, she would do it again.”

Natalia Martinez, the communications director for Roots of Hope, a network of 4,000 young professionals who work to help young people in Cuba, said Ms. Sanchez spoke often about the need for a diversity of opinion and emphasized the importance of empowering Cubans on the island.

Technology is one way to punch a hole, Ms. Sanchez says often. So she asks for a flood of cellphones and USB sticks and other devices.

“She addresses the fact that there is a lot of hurt, a lot of pain, associated with the Cuba issue, and she doesn’t dismiss it,” Ms. Martinez said. But, she said: “Cuban-Americans have more opportunities to be involved in Cuba now than they had before, and Yoani has come to symbolize some kind of joint agency between them. That resonates here.”

Ms. Martinez added, “She is focused on building a narrative about the future.”

Over the weekend, though, Ms. Sanchez grappled with a far less ambitious agenda: She spent time in Miami with her sister, her brother-in-law and niece. It has been two years since her sister left Cuba for Miami.

“For two years I haven’t been able to hug them,” she said.
21 2013-04-01 The Rangers, led by Rick Nash with 12 goals and 16 assists, have a league-low 75 goals through 34 games. (They have also been credited with three goals as a team for shootout victories.) The Rangers have struggled on the power play all season, and their usually stout penalty-killing corps has also been under siege, allowing power-play goals to the opposition in six straight games.

The Rangers have not scored in 127 minutes 47 seconds, since Chris Kreider’s goal midway through Tuesday’s 5-2 win at Philadelphia.

“We’re just not finishing,” Coach John Tortorella said. “We had a number of good chances against Montreal. We worked hard. We are going to continue to go about our business. Our attitude is good.”

Marian Gaborik has played a part in the team’s offensive woes. Gaborik, 31, scored 41 goals last season and has 333 in his career, but he has only nine this season and has scored just once since his overtime winner against the Islanders on March 7.

Gaborik’s erratic production has perplexed Tortorella for much of his tenure. Tortorella has benched Gaborik at times and against Montreal started him on the fourth line with Taylor Pyatt and Kris Newbury. Gaborik had a breakaway early in the game but was denied by goaltender Carey Price.

“If Gabby scores on that breakaway, it changes the whole complexion of the game,” said Tortorella, who moved Gaborik off the fourth line after several shifts. “We have to just keep working. Hopefully, we will bang something in to relieve the pressure and build from there.”

The Rangers’ captain, Ryan Callahan, says his frustrated teammates need to take a deep breath.

“We can still climb up the standings in a hurry if we play our style and win games,” he said. “We know that every game is going to be intense at this stage of the season. We’re glad to be home with a chance to get back on the right track.”

Callahan also addressed another potential distraction for the Rangers. After the loss at Montreal, the former Rangers agitator Sean Avery took to Twitter to criticize his former coach.

An outspoken forward during two stints with the Rangers, Avery never meshed with Tortorella. The team sent him to Connecticut of the American Hockey League last season after he played only 15 games, and he is now working for a Manhattan advertising agency.

“Sean Avery’s comments solely represent his own thoughts and opinions,” Callahan said in a statement on behalf of the Rangers. “He did not speak for us as a team when he was here and certainly does not now.”

The Rangers said players and coaches would not comment further on Avery’s remarks.

Six teams are uncomfortably close to their precarious playoff perch, and the Rangers are 4-12-1 against the seven teams ahead of them in the conference standings.

The Islanders are tied with the Rangers for eighth (35 points) while Carolina and Washington are a point behind, Philadelphia is 2 back, and Buffalo is 3 behind. Even struggling Tampa Bay is in striking distance, just 4 points back.

The Rangers added an offensive weapon in Nash for this season and, in addition to Gaborik’s latent offensive prowess, have the playmaker Brad Richards. The team led the conference with 109 points last season, so the fact that the Rangers are fighting to make the playoffs has Lundqvist wondering what the solution might be.

“We’re a tough read this year,” he said. “I think you just have to focus on your game and what you can control. You can’t overthink and try to do too much. Everyone has to do their job.”
22 2013-04-01 IndyMac needed rescuing because, like the Cypriot bank, it placed a large bet just before one of the biggest recent credit disasters. For IndyMac, the calamity was the collapse of the subprime mortgage market in the United States. For the Bank of Cyprus, it was the collapse of Greek government bonds, in which it and other Cypriot banks had invested heavily, seeking an adequate return on the billions of euros of deposits that had inflated their balance sheets.

He pointed out that compared with other countries with huge banking systems relative to their economies — notably Malta, at about eight times gross domestic product, and Luxembourg at more than 22 times G.D.P. — Cypriot banks had much lower levels of equity to cushion against failing assets. What is more, it is the subsidiaries of foreign banks, which have little or no exposure to the local economies, that make up the bulk of the Maltese and Luxembourg banking systems.

By comparison, many of the Cypriot banking assets that grew to be seven times the size of the country’s economy consisted of corporate, construction and mortgage loans to the Cypriot and Greek economies, which tied the health of these banks directly to those sagging economies.

As proponents of the Cypriot losses argue, just as it was fair that the large depositors that bankrolled IndyMac’s subprime excesses in 2008 pay the cost for the bank’s failure, so it is right that Cypriot savers — the largest of whom were Russian billionaires chasing high-yielding deposits — suffer a similar fate.

“There were stories of pain, too, at IndyMac, but in the U.S., we paid little attention to it,” Mr. Kirkegaard said. “This will impose a lot of pain on Cypriot society, but the outcome will not be that much different.”

IndyMac, when it was rescued by American regulators in July 2008, had become the ninth-largest originator of mortgage loans in the United States, relying largely on large, uninsured deposits to finance a lending spree in some of the riskiest areas of the housing market.

And while the American government backed savers with deposits of less than $100,000, those with more deposited at IndyMac were required to accept a loss of 50 percent when it declared bankruptcy. (The federal government helped prevent a broader panic by later raising the deposit insurance threshold to the current $250,000.)

As the Cypriot government begins investigating the misadventures of the Bank of Cyprus and the second-largest, Laiki, bankers and lawyers in Nicosia have begun to argue that the disastrous venture by the Bank of Cyprus into Greek bonds could well have been avoided.

Local bankers say the bank had more or less sold out of its Greek bond position by early 2010 as Greece’s problems became evident.

But then, in late spring of 2010, as an international bailout of Greece looked increasingly likely, the Bank of Cyprus plunged back into the market, buying 2.1 billion euros, $2.7 billion, worth of the troubled bonds, lured by the increasingly high yields that went with the risk. At the time, the bonds were trading around 70 cents on the euro, and bankers say that, in essence, when the Bank of Cyprus bought the securities, it was betting that the loss, when it occurred, would be less than the market had expected.

Such a risky strategy is frequently used by hedge funds dabbling in distressed debt. But it is generally not seen as the expertise of large, deposit-reliant institutions like the Bank of Cyprus.

“This was pure speculation — European banks like Deutsche Bank were desperately trying to get rid of these things,” said a Cypriot banker familiar with the transactions who was not authorized to speak publicly.

Two years later, in March 2012, Greek bonds would be written down by 75 percent, saddling the Bank of Cyprus with a loss of about 1.6 billion euros — around 4.4 percent of its assets — from which it has yet to recover.

European officials and economists at the International Monetary Fund are therefore making the case that the risks the Cypriot banks took were not just egregious but unique, given the size of its banking sector.

This is not to say that there are no looming problems in Europe that could not become more dangerous in the days ahead as uncertainty over Cyprus continues. A few weeks ago the I.M.F., in its annual economic survey of Slovenia, warned that the country’s banks, hobbled by increasing nonperforming loans, were under “severe distress” and would need 1 billion euros in fresh cash to keep them afloat.

Slovenia has large levels of understated debt that could attract investor scrutiny as broader finances continue to deteriorate.

Nonperforming loans in Italy are also persistently on the rise. And risk-averse investors are becoming more wary about buying the bonds of Italian banks in the fear that if these banks fail, investors will be required to share in the burden of bailing them out.

Nevertheless, those problems were endemic to Slovenia and Italy long before the Cyprus crisis emerged. If, as a result of Cyprus, bond investors and depositors become more discerning about where they put their money, European officials will see that as more positive than negative for the future of the euro zone.
23 2013-04-01 It was the first time in tournament history that a player saved a match point in the men’s final and went on to win, and it was the third time, after 1995 and 2011, that the final went to a tiebreaker in the third set. For Murray, it was the first time he saved a match point in winning an ATP World Tour final. It was also the first time he came back from a set down in a semifinal and in a final to win an ATP title.

Murray roared to a 4-0 lead in the tiebreaker. Another long rally ended with Ferrer sailing a backhand wide, then collapsing with a leg cramp before switching sides. Murray closed the match with a service winner and a forehand down the line that a lunging Ferrer hit into the net.

“I don’t think he gets the respect that he deserves within the game,” Murray said of the 30-year-old Ferrer. “He’s been in the top five in the world now for at least three years. You know, he’s on course to possibly do that again. It’s a very difficult thing to do, especially with his age. He’s improved every single year, his game. That takes a great attitude to be able to do that. He’s always getting better.

“Providing his body holds up, he’ll be around the top of the game for as long as he wants or he can, because he’s a very, very, very good tennis player and has a great attitude.”

The tired opponents met at the net for an embrace, and Ferrer apologized to his fans for not being able to pull out a victory. Murray and Ferrer are practice partners, so it seemed as if they were able to anticipate each other’s shots.

Ferrer started the match with an ace and breezed to a 5-0 lead in the first set. Murray broke his serve in the seventh game, but he gave it right back at love with a double fault.

Murray regrouped in the second set, winning some long baseline rallies and going to the net at opportune times.

In the final set, there were six consecutive breaks of serve. Murray was the first to hold. He broke Ferrer in the ninth game and had a chance to serve for the match at 5-4, but this match was setting up for a tiebreaker all the way.

“In the third set, I was a break down three times,” said Ferrer, who fell to 18-53 in his career against top-five players. “I put 6-5 on match point. I had my chance. I’m not taking advantage. And finally, with these players, if I don’t take advantage, it’s impossible to win.”

There were many memorable points that kept the capacity crowd cheering. As hard as both men were hitting the ball, there were also many close line calls. By the time Murray was trailing by 4-0 in the first set, he had used three challenges. Each player has three challenges a set and one in each tiebreaker.

Ferrer tried to challenge the first point of the pivotal 12th game in the third set, but the chair umpire did not see him raise his hand. After Ferrer toweled off and turned to face Murray, he noticed that no replay was being shown on the video board, and the crowd booed loudly when no challenge was awarded. That led to the drama on match point.

“It was good for me that I didn’t have to hit another shot, because obviously on match points it can be tough to pull the trigger,” Murray said. “But I went for that forehand and, you know, obviously just dropped it in the last second.”

He added: “Yeah, it is tough going into the tiebreak for him having lost that game where he’s had a match point, and, you know, it was centimeters away from being his match. That’s probably why he didn’t play such a strong tiebreak.”
24 2013-04-01 “There’s a resurgence of New York, reclaiming the top of the market where we should be,” said Michael Jeary, who led Laughlin Constable New York as president and remains in that post at the merged agency as he is joined by the principals of Filter: JC Addison, Chris Brignola and Jay Sharfstein.

Mr. Jeary recalled being asked recently by a prospective client that often uses stars in its ads for alternatives to conventional endorsement deals, among them “how to activate the extraordinary fan base of celebrities through social media.”

“People are searching for the next bright light, the next creative idea,” he said, and New York ought to be the first place they look.

Mr. Addison, who was president at Filter and becomes executive vice president and managing director at Laughlin Constable New York/New Jersey, said: “The New York market is as good as it’s been in the last five years. People are taking meetings in ways they weren’t not that long ago.”

Mr. Addison also cited the recent arrivals into the market of other agencies based outside New York, among them Frank PR; Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, part of the Omnicom Group; and McKinney, owned by Cheil Worldwide.

Those newcomers suggest “there’s business to be had,” Mr. Addison said.

Another reason for the renewed attraction to New York is a perception that it is a hospitable market for agencies that specialize in nontraditional services like experiential marketing, which is centered on offering consumers tangible ways to interact with brands and products that include live events.

“New York is a hotbed,” said Brian Schultz, a partner and chief operating officer at a new experiential agency named Magnetic Collaborative. “You’re surrounded by creativity and culture.”

“The city also offers marketers so many unique ways to engage with the population, whether they want to reach tourists or residents,” he added, suggesting Times Square for the one and Madison Square Park for the other.

The other founding partners of Magnetic Collaborative, which lists among its initial clients Google, HBO, New Balance and Samsung, include Glenn Marck, chief creative officer; Richard Rathe, chief executive; and Geoff Renaud, chief marketing officer. Their résumés include senior posts at R/GA, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies; Radar Entertainment; and the Jack Russell Group, which designs and builds trade-show exhibitions.

“Experiential marketing is critical,” said Josh Rowe, marketing manager for running at New Balance in Boston. “I’d say it’s the most important thing we do, putting a face to our brand advertising, because that’s when you have a real impact with consumers.”

“We want to dial up that engagement, that conversation, with people who buy running sneakers,” he added. “Magnetic laid out some ideas for us on ways we can enhance our presence at events, and we were hooked.”

Being in New York has other benefits, according to Dana Locatell, who has joined with Tim Mack and Zach Merck to open a company called Make, devoted to the creation of short- and long-form content like programs, commercials and video clips for television and the Internet. Make has worked with agencies that include Campbell Ewald, part of Interpublic, and Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners, and is also handling projects like a documentary about Nashville and its music.

“Our scope of talent is all over the country,” said Mr. Locatell, who like his partners worked at @radical.media before starting Make, “but, truth be told, New York has the access we’re familiar with.”

“In New York, you form relationships with the agencies and the networks that are right around the corner,” he added. “And you’ve got incredible crew talent based here.”
25 2013-04-01 ¶PopSugar Inc., San Francisco, which operates the popsugar.com Web site and a daily streaming show, “PopSugar Live,” named Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, San Francisco, part of the Omnicom Group, as its first global advertising agency of record. Billings were not disclosed.

¶Thomas L. Harrison, chairman at the Diversified Agency Services division of the Omnicom Group, New York, was named chairman emeritus, a new post in which he will serve as an adviser. Dale A. Adams remains president and chief executive.

¶Tom Morton joined the new New York office of Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, part of the Omnicom Group, as head of strategy. He had been chief strategy officer at Havas Worldwide New York, part of the Havas Worldwide division of Havas, as well as joint chief strategy officer for North America at Havas Worldwide.

¶Beth Wade, chief client officer at VML, Kansas City, Mo., part of WPP, was named the agency’s first chief marketing officer.

¶Fred Burt, director for European clients at the London office of Interbrand, part of the Omnicom Group, was named managing director for global clients at Interbrand, a new post, reporting to Jez Frampton, global chairman and chief executive. Mr. Burt will continue to be based in London.
26 2013-04-01 JERUSALEM — Israel moved closer to its goal of energy independence on Sunday as natural gas from a large offshore field began flowing into the country, a harbinger of important change that will benefit the country strategically and economically, officials said.

“We are taking an important step toward energy independence,” Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said in a statement after the natural gas started flowing Saturday from the Tamar reservoir in the Mediterranean Sea to a terminal in the Israeli port of Ashdod, a journey that officials said would take 24 hours.

“We have advanced the natural gas sector in Israel over the last decade, which will be good for the Israeli economy and for all Israelis,” Mr. Netanyahu added.

Some questions were raised in Orthodox circles in Israel as to why the Tamar field had gone online on the Jewish Sabbath, the religiously mandated day of rest. During his traditional Passover visit to the country’s leading rabbis on Sunday, President Shimon Peres called that decision a “mistake” and said he did not know the reason for it, according to Ynet, a Hebrew news Web site, and some ultra-Orthodox Web sites.

A partnership of Noble Energy, based in Houston, and two Israeli companies, Delek Group and Dor Gas Explorations, carried out drilling operations at the Tamar site, about 56 miles west of the northern port city of Haifa, and discovered large gas reserves there in 2009.
27 2013-04-01 MCCRACKEN--Hugh C.,70, in New York on March 29, 2013. Session guitarist extra ordinaire, loving husband, son, father, grandfather and friend. Profoundly missed by wife Holly, children Scot, Jodi, Marc and Kim, mother, brother and sister, grandchil...
28 2013-04-02 Hillary Rodham Clinton made her public debut in her new role as prospective presidential candidate on Tuesday night by returning to the issue of empowerment of women around the globe....
29 2013-04-02 In its upfront presentation to advertisers, Bravo explained how it can incorporate brands into scenes from its reality shows....
30 2013-04-02 Verizon said on Tuesday that it did not “currently have any intention to merge with or make an offer for Vodafone, whether alone or in conjunction with others,” following a report that it was working with AT&T about a joint bid....
31 2013-04-02 A beet and bulgur salad from Telepan on the Upper West Side is earthy, bright and exuberantly different....
32 2013-04-02 A light but flavorful ham stock can be substituted for chicken stock in many recipes....
33 2013-04-02 Few people engaged in the battle to protect women can match the firsthand experience prosecuting domestic abuse and rape cases that Cindy Dyer of Vital Voices brings to the front lines....
34 2013-04-02 Civil War prisons contributed to the growth of baseball....
35 2013-04-02 A recent crop of programs is trying a new approach to increasing the number of women in the technology field: Teaching teenage girls how to write computer code....
36 2013-04-02 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
37 2013-04-02 Apple’s chief executive, Tim Cook, took the unusual step on Monday of apologizing to Chinese customers over the company’s warranty policy and said he would improve customer service in the country, David Barboza and Nick Wingfield report in Tue...
38 2013-04-02 Verizon is working with its main rival, AT&T, about a joint bid for Vodafone, The Financial Times’s Alphaville blog reports. If true, a successful deal could solve issues at both Verizon and Vodafone....
39 2013-04-02 I asked Eliza Byard, executive director of the Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network what she thought about this situation. “When the pressure comes from a straight person to conform — ‘don’t be so flamboyant’ or ‘tone it down’ — it’s difficult and dangerous,” she said. “Coming from another gay student, it’s even more sad and troubling. This person should be on your side.”

Frankly, I’m saddened and troubled that there are “sides” to this at all, but they certainly did emerge when I posted your question on my Facebook page. One boomer-aged gay man seemed to support the “mainstreamers” when he wrote: “I like my men to be ... men, you know? That’s why I’m gay. I’m not a ‘fan’ of flamboyant men. And while I don’t hide any gay ‘traits’ I might express, I also hope I don’t come off as flamboyant myself.”

But I think the food writer Eric Burkett, in his comments to me, really got to the core of the problem: “When I was a teen, I was enormously uncomfortable with flamboyant — or as I would have put it then, ‘nelly’ — gay guys. I was out but still not entirely comfortable with myself. Peer pressure, societal and family expectations and the entirely unreal expectations we have of ourselves all conspire to make teenagers the most insecure people on the planet.”

So, what’s a supportive mom (or dad) to do? I don’t know how your son reacted in the moment, but in a perfect world he would have had a “come to Jesus” talk right then and there — not punishing but enlightening. Even now it’s not too late to craft a response; your son can go back to his classmate and restart the conversation privately, and not combatively. Or you might e-mail the G.S.A. adviser and get him or her involved. (A G.S.A. is the perfect place to have these honest conversations, and the group’s adviser would probably want to schedule a session on the topic to help foster understanding and clear the air.)

Your son’s critic also needs to be reminded that the real threat is not from outré gays but from rabid opponents of gay rights — who don’t make any sartorial or behavioral distinctions. James Dobson, the founder of Focus on the Family, a conservative evangelical nonprofit, has said point blank: “Same-sex relationships undermine the future generation’s understanding of the fundamental principles of marriage, parenthood and gender.” Make no mistake, Mr. Dobson wasn’t talking about those who are effeminate or butch -- no gay person gets a free pass or a marriage license. That sobering thought might help get us all on the same side, united against those who would deny our rights, rather than dividing ourselves.

Oh, and please tell your son how proud you are of him just the way he is.

What advice do you have for parents and their teenagers in this kind of situation?

Previous “Civil Behavior” columns can be found here. Steven Petrow can be contacted at Facebook.com/gaymanners and @stevenpetrow or his Web site www.gaymanners.com. If you need advice about gay/straight situations or issues (geared to a boomer-aged audience), send them to Mr. Petrow at stevenpetrow@earthlink.net. (Unfortunately, not all questions can be answered.)

Booming: Living Through the Middle Ages offers news and commentary about baby boomers, anchored by Michael Winerip. You can follow Booming via RSS here or visit nytimes.com/booming. You can reach us by e-mail at booming@nytimes.com.
40 2013-04-02 The police force is grossly short of female officers....
41 2013-04-02 He said that he remembered going with his father to watch the Mets play at the Polo Grounds in the early 1960s, when the Mets were quite awful, and that he and his father went to Yankee Stadium only occasionally.

But Daurio said he jettisoned the Mets in the mid-1990s and fully embraced the Yankees, in good part because a good friend had tickets for games in the Bronx. Friendship coalesced with an emerging championship team. There was no looking back, no ambivalence, even on a day like Monday when Dario might have been tempted to include a nod to the Mets, his old team, as they began their season next door in Queens.

Instead, Daurio pointed to his Yankees cap. “My daughter bought this for me,” he said proudly. “We’re starting a new season, although it’s not necessarily going to be their best season.”

Then there was T. J. Hadley, a longtime Yankees fan, and his wife, Michelle Tolson, an equally committed Boston Red Sox supporter. What connected them on Monday was the romance, the promise of new beginnings, however long they may last. “Opening day is a sign of just getting out there and living,” Hadley said.

His wife, experiencing her first opening day, said: “It’s like a rite of spring; it’s the beginning of the year. It’s the start over, and for my Red Sox it means we’re going to win this year.”

If you live where I live, the ritual never gets old, mothers, fathers, sons and daughters holding hands, walking to the Stadium, maybe reliving unforgettable moments from a previous season, maybe forging unbreakable bonds built around a love for the game.

Jeff Rivera, another Yankee fan headed to the bridge and then the Bronx and then the game, said he was 60 years old. But he still found himself thinking about going to the Stadium with his dad, who is no longer alive.

“Baseball and opening day bring me back,” he said of his memories.

“It’s a great tradition,” added Rivera, who said he was on his way to the game to meet his son, Chris.

Walking to the Stadium, too, was Andrew Kouridakis, with his 5-year-old daughter, Sofia. He said this was his 10th consecutive home opener, but the first with his daughter.

“There’s nothing like sharing the tradition with my daughter and showing her what I’ve grown up doing,” he said.

And there was Fiordaliza Ventura, who said she became a baseball fan because of her father. Born in the Dominican Republic, living in Washington Heights, she said her first memories of baseball were watching games with her father.

“He used to put me on his shoulders so I could see over the fence and watch the games,” she said. “Watching baseball on my dad’s shoulders. That was it for me.”

So it was in my neighborhood on Monday, the first day of April, the first day of baseball, an old ritual back in bloom.
42 2013-04-02 And so, on a day typically governed by the teams’ off-season choices — Who plays shortstop? Where does he hit in the order? What’s the going rate for a pretzel? — the most critical question was turned on the city itself before the games’ first pitches were thrown shortly after 1 p.m.

Mr. Bloomberg took care to appear evenhanded. His chief spokesman, Marc La Vorgna, wrote on Twitter before the games that “heavy calculations” were made to ensure that the mayor split his time equitably. These included research on the average game length for each team, specifically for the Yankees and Red Sox, whose marathon meetings are without peer. (The mayor took the subway to the Yankees game first, stayed until the fourth inning, then arrived by car at Citi Field for the sixth inning, Mr. La Vorgna said. He stayed until the end.)

At a Modell’s on East 42nd Street, employees likewise arranged team apparel with an eye toward fairness, placing Mets and Yankees gear side by side near the entrance, though some of the Mets racks were banished to a well-obscured corner.

Bar operators turned to the democratic process in determining which game to display most prominently. At Shorty’s, a bar in Midtown known as a haven for Philadelphia sports fans, the bartender, Catherine Tejada, said that all but two tables requested audio and big-screen treatment for the Yankees. (One wanted the Mets; the last asked for the Colorado Rockies.)

Yankees fans also had their way in other corners of the city. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority provided a special nostalgia train to the Bronx, with cars from 1917 and nonstop service to the Stadium. The Mets received no such accommodations.

“We don’t have the personnel to be able to run two nostalgia trains at once,” said Kevin Ortiz, an authority spokesman.

He added that an old train would likely to run to Citi Field for this year’s All-Star Game and “hopefully to both stadiums come October.”

Stephen Rozenfeld, 79, from New Rochelle, N.Y., is used to such slights. Wearing a shirt with the name and number of the Mets third baseman, David Wright, atop his collared button-down, Mr. Rozenfeld said he had cheered the team since its inception in 1962.

“I call being a Mets fan the logical masochistic extension of being a Dodgers fan,” he said, signaling the start of a lengthy soliloquy on the Brooklyn Dodgers’ 1941 loss to the Yankees in the World Series. “Suffering is part of the game.”

Outside the ballparks, it was clear which game the city’s hucksters preferred. In the Bronx, ticket scalpers held court beside a McDonald’s, lamenting that they could not work both games this year. Customer loyalty, some said, had tethered them to the Yankees. “I’ve worked here longer,” one scalper reasoned, “so I’ve got be here.”

Nearby, a dog named Shaggy sat atop a security pillar in a Yankees hat, sunglasses and Converse sneakers. Tip money stuck out of the back left pocket of the dog’s denim jeans, though it would be scooped up soon enough by Ryan Legrier, 27, who had turned his Maltese-poodle mix into a small business.

By afternoon’s end, though, Citi Field would prove the place to be. Hours earlier, as the scent of lighter fluid wafted over the parking lot’s tailgaters before the first pitch, Jason Kish, 37, had blessed Opening Day’s promise of a “fresh start.”

He had attended about 20 season openers, he said, as a co-worker, John Keskin, a Turkish native, awaited his first. “Mets, baby!” Mr. Keskin shouted, tilting his head to the sky.

Soon, their faith was rewarded. The Mets routed the San Diego Padres, 11-2. And all the ancient trains and bespectacled pooches in the five boroughs could not have saved the Yankees from an 8-2 loss.
43 2013-04-02 A federal judge in New York has dealt a blow to the nascent business of reselling digital goods like music and e-books, ruling that a small company’s secondary market for digital music infringes on the copyrights controlled by record companies.

The company, ReDigi, opened an online platform in late 2011 that allowed people to upload and resell songs they had bought from online retailers like Apple’s iTunes. ReDigi said its technology deleted the original file once a copy was put up for sale, but the major record labels were skeptical, and Capitol Records sued in early 2012.

The case has been closely watched as a test of whether the first sale doctrine — the legal principle that someone who owns a copy of a copyrighted work, like a book or album, is free to resell it — can be applied to digital goods.

In an order dated Saturday, Judge Richard J. Sullivan of United States District Court in Manhattan ruled that ReDigi was liable for copyright infringement, and seemed entirely unmoved by ReDigi’s arguments.

“The first sale defense does not cover this any more than it covered the sale of cassette recordings of vinyl records in a bygone era,” he wrote.
44 2013-04-02 Fans packed Yankee Stadium and Citi Field to watch the Yankees and Mets open their seasons at home at the same time, something that has not happened between two New York teams since 1956....
45 2013-04-02 The federal government’s Bureau of Justice Statistics does not tally violent crimes against prosecutors, but Mr. Burns’s organization has been keeping records for a half century. It counts Mr. McLelland, who was 63, as the 13th prosecutor in the country to be killed in that time.

“Each one’s a tragedy, though — knock wood — it’s still very rare,” Mr. Burns said. There is a small memorial to fallen prosecutors at the Justice Department’s National Advocacy Center in Columbia, S.C.

Other cases have not received such intense national attention. The case of Sean May, a Denver-area prosecutor killed in 2008, is still unsolved, as is the death under mysterious circumstances of Jonathan P. Luna, an assistant United States attorney based in Baltimore whose body was found in a Pennsylvania creek in 2003.

Mr. Burns said, “I don’t think it’s any question that prosecutors are extremely vulnerable.”

While urban offices in places like Dallas County have upgraded security in light of the killings, Mr. Burns said that the options for most prosecutors are few. He noted that there are 40,000 state and local prosecutors in the United States, and many work in small offices with limited resources.

“It’s just unrealistic to think that we’re going to have security details for prosecutors,” he said.

Identifying the truly dangerous people from the many who go through the legal system — “your own personal threat assessment” — is difficult, and protecting oneself is even more so. For the most part, Mr. Burns said, “We’re trained in the law and persuasion, not firearms.”

David Escamilla, the Travis County attorney and president-elect of the Texas District and County Attorneys Association, said that in prosecutorial offices across the state, there is, “to a lesser degree, a fear — knowing this could be us.”

He said, “Whenever you’re prosecuting someone and you’re involved in depriving someone of their liberty, some of the people we’re dealing with can focus on the wrong things.” Even in his office, which deals mainly with misdemeanors, he said, “We’ve had threats before,” and “we’ve had to have those talks with people about taking their security more seriously.”

William Lee Hon, the Polk County criminal district attorney and the chairman of the Texas prosecutors’ organization, said that being aware of risk is essential — “You worry about it, to a degree” — but that worrying can go too far. “There’s a fine line between being careful and being paranoid,” he said. “One will drive you crazy.”

Prosecutors develop a “psychological defense mechanism to not constantly dwell on the dangers and the threats that are out there.” Fall into that habit of mind, he said, and “it prevents you from going forward and being professional about your job.”
46 2013-04-02 The Department of Energy hailed Fair Oaks Farm as a pacesetter for the industry, though as Erin Fitzgerald, a senior vice president at the Innovation Center for U.S. Dairy, acknowledged, “It’s not glamorous; it doesn’t really catch your eye like wind and solar.”

Termites emerged as the likely makers of “fairy circles,” the barren red spots that dot a narrow strip of desert from Angola to Namibia to South Africa. By feasting on grass roots beneath the surface, the termites keep the circles — which range from 6 to 40 feet in diameter — free of vegetation and better able to absorb rainwater. At least that is the conclusion that Norbert Juergens, a professor of ecology at the University of Hamburg, proposed in the journal Science.

But Walter R. Tschinkel, a biologist from Florida State University who last year published an extensive examination of the fairy circles, said the cause was still a mystery, adding that Dr. Juergens “has made the common scientific error of confusing correlation (even very strong correlation) with causation.”

The local Himba people assert that the circles, which they call “footprints of the gods,” were made by their ancestor Mukuru, and neither scientist is likely to convince them otherwise.

Does weight loss require the right mix of diet and exercise, or just the right mix of bacteria inside your gut?

A pair of studies released last week suggests that bacterial makeup in the intestines has a lot to say about whether a person gains or loses weight. Mice that received gastric bypass surgery lost weight after seeing significant changes to their gut microbiata, according to a study published in Science Translational Medicine. A second study, published in The Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism, found that overweight people may be more likely to harbor a certain type of intestinal microbe that could contribute to weight gain.

If borne out, the research could lead to noninvasive weight-loss alternatives for obese patients who either do not want or do not qualify for gastric bypass surgery, doctors said. Previous studies have shown that the intestinal microbes of an obese person change significantly after a gastric bypass, becoming more like those of a skinny person.

It started life as an antimold treatment for sofas, but dimethyl fumarate was approved by the Federal Drug Administration last week as a treatment for multiple sclerosis.

The drug, which will be sold by Biogen Idec under the brand name Tecfidera, is expected to be a blockbuster. It is only the third oral treatment to be approved for the disease, and it offers a tantalizing combination of efficacy and safety, doctors and Wall Street analysts say. Some patients are said to have been delaying treatment until Tecfidera is available.

M.S. affects about 400,000 Americans and more than 2 million people worldwide. Drugs are typically judged by their ability to prevent relapse; Tecfidera cut the relapse rate 44 percent in one trial and 53 percent in another, which ranks above most injectable treatments and at the top end of oral ones.

As the earth gets hotter, the Arctic could get greener — a lot greener — according to new research published in the journal Nature Climate Change.

Plant growth in Arctic regions has accelerated in recent decades, most likely as a result of the global rise in temperatures. Now, using computer models that predict climate trends through the 2050s, researchers say that vegetation in the Arctic could increase up to 50 percent in the next decade, far faster than previously thought.

Scientists from Zhejiang University in China revealed last week what they say is the world’s lightest solid material, a mass of atom-thick carbon sheets called carbon aerogel. Though still in the early stages of development, the material — which can absorb 900 times its weight in oil — could be useful in soaking up oil spills or other pollutants, said the scientists. And it looks nifty resting atop a cherry blossom, above.

Bragging rights as the creator of the world’s lightest material now moves from the United States to China. Carbon aerogel is about one-sixth the density of air, or 0.16 milligrams per cubic centimeter, handily besting the metal lattice that weighed in at 0.9 milligrams per cubic centimeter (100 times as light as Styrofoam) and was forged in 2011 by a team of researchers from the California Institute of Technology; the University of California, Irvine; and HRL Laboratories. With due respect to Shakespeare, not so heavy is the head that wears this crown.
47 2013-04-02 Gone are the mismatched additions. And in a dramatic innovation, two inner courtyards have been transformed into a single atrium by sinking them below ground level. A soaring, light-filled space of more than 24,000 square feet, with glass roofs and polished Portuguese stone floors, it is the public face of the museum, and like the cavernous Turbine Hall at the Tate Modern in London, it can be visited without an entrance ticket. (Museum admission will cost around $19.) Like Turbine Hall, it will be an urban hangout, with performances and, eventually, art installations.

Mr. Pijbes said he expected the renovated museum to attract 1.75 million to 2 million visitors annually, which could vault the Rijksmuseum to roughly 20th among museums worldwide. In its last fully open year in 2002, it drew 1.3 million people. (The museum’s Phillips wing did remain open during the renovation, displaying a selection of greatest hits — including Rembrandt’s “Night Watch” and “Jewish Bride,” and Vermeer’s “Milkmaid” — and nearly one million visitors flocked there last year, according to The Art Newspaper’s annual attendance report.)

On a recent chilly afternoon, the museum was buzzing with curators and installers. Taco Dibbits, the director of collections, said that curators were seeking to tell a story through the installation.

“Instead of fighting the building, we have embraced it and accepted its eccentricities,” he said. “This was built as a national museum, not just an art museum, and we want the public to get a sense of history, seeing the paintings, furniture and applied arts that were all conceived around the same time.”

So rather than separate paintings from, say, tapestries or furniture or silver, as they had before, the curators have decided to tell the history of Dutch art from the Middle Ages to the 21st century through some 8,000 works on four floors.

“See how beautiful a 17th-century cabinet made at the same time as a painting by Rembrandt and a silver platter by Lutma look,” Mr. Dibbits said, referring to a prominent 17th-century silversmith. “These artists were friends, and it’s a way for people to really get a sense of the period.” Every work is labeled in both Dutch and English.

Aside from the traditional galleries, there are rooms of curiosities, like dollhouses and 18th-century ship models, and one gallery is devoted to a room with 18th-century magic lanterns. (The Paris designer Jean-Michel Wilmotte, also known for his work at the Louvre, assisted with the interior design of the galleries). One of the most striking spaces is a vast three-story cast-iron art historical library that will be open to the public for the first time. Visitors will be handed iPads, because museum officials felt that putting computers in the room would “contaminate it visually,” Mr. Dibbits said.

It took artisans nine years to paint the decorative pillars and ceiling in the museum’s grand front hall, where a sweeping wall of stained-glass windows has also been restored.

Yet the heart of the museum is the Gallery of Honor, a colonnaded space lined with paintings by Rembrandt, Vermeer, Hals and Steen, as well as Pieter de Hooch, Aelbert Cuyp and Johannes Verspronck.

Yet not everything is necessarily of the period. The British artist Richard Wright was commissioned to design ceilings on either side of Rembrandt’s “Night Watch” that are vast networks of black stars. It is the museum’s only permanent site-specific commission.

Despite the outsize nature of the face lift, the Rijksmuseum’s answer to the Louvre’s “Mona Lisa” will hang in its time-honored spot at the end of the Gallery of Honor.

“Cuypers designed the entire museum around ‘Night Watch,’ and we wanted to respect that,” Mr. Dibbits said. “It’s still the place the public can see it best.”
48 2013-04-02 For the Mets and their fans, this was a promising sign for the future. For all of the racket about how the minor league prospect Zack Wheeler and the sophomore star Matt Harvey could headline the Mets’ staff for years to come, Niese figures to be just as key a figure for any potential club revival.

Niese, 26, who signed a multiyear contract extension last year, was thrust into the role of opening day starter this season after the left-hander Johan Santana, the team’s former ace and highest-paid player, was sidelined in spring training by a recurrence of the shoulder injury that led him to miss all of the 2011 season.

Manager Terry Collins has since called Niese the new leader of the staff, a characterization the pitcher has tried to parry. Eyeing the occasion, Niese pledged over the weekend to remain calm. Afterward, he said the result of that effort was mixed.

“I’m not going to lie,” he said, “the adrenaline was pumping.”

Before Niese took his solitary place on the mound, the field grew crowded for the intricate pregame ceremony. Hundreds of volunteers and first responders from Hurricane Sandy relief efforts were honored on the outfield grass. The players and coaches lined up alongside them as their names were announced — the loudest boos were reserved as always for the Mets’ medical staff. The actress Emmy Rossum sang the national anthem. The former player Rusty Staub threw out the first pitch.

Finally, Niese got to work mastering the Padres. He threw 101 pitches, allowing 4 hits, 2 walks and 2 runs, while striking out 4 hitters. His continued evolution as a pitcher — his increasing ability to mix cutters, two-seam fastballs and changeups alongside his signature curveball — was on display as he kept the Padres off balance.

And his slip-ups were minimal. He allowed a walk and hit a batter to start the third, setting the stage for Carlos Quentin’s run-scoring single to center. But the Padres did not score again until the sixth, when Yonder Alonso pounded a hanging curveball over the right-field fence for a solo home run.

“This being his first home opener, it’s a lot of pressure,” catcher John Buck said. “And in my opinion, he stepped up to it and did what a No. 1 should do.”

Niese received plenty of help from his teammates, who by major league standards are a motley group. Wright, the team’s only household name, noted that its victories would be hard-earned through collective effort.

That was the case Monday. Ruben Tejada, who batted .096 in spring training, put the Mets ahead in the second when he pulled a two-out double into the left-field corner, sending catcher Buck rumbling home from first base. Niese came up next and flicked a single over third base, making it 2-0.

The next inning, Marlon Byrd, who was signed this winter to a minor league deal before winning a job as the team’s everyday right fielder, lifted a run-scoring single to left, and two batters later, Buck lined a single to center, making it 4-1.

The Mets kept going in the fourth, forcing Padres starter Edinson Volquez from the game by putting the first two men on base. But reliever Anthony Bass could not clean up the inning, as Daniel Murphy, Wright and Byrd each drove in one run.

The Mets scored nine runs with two outs, and afterward Collins lauded the Mets’ resilience. “You grind out at-bats,” he said. “You don’t give up with two strikes. You don’t give up with two outs, especially with guys in scoring position.”

The day of celebration was capped in the seventh, when Cowgill, acquired this winter through a mostly unheralded trade, crushed a low-flying grand slam to left field off reliever Brad Brach.

After the victory, Collins talked again about the task of gaining credibility with fans. It is a daunting one. To many, the Mets appear destined for a fifth straight losing season. One win will not change that perception, but it seemed to be enjoyed nonetheless.

The Mets placed four players on the 15-day disabled list, retroactive to March 22: Johan Santana (shoulder capsule tear), Frank Francisco (elbow inflammation), Jenrry Mejia (elbow tendon inflammation) and Shaun Marcum (biceps tendinitis).
49 2013-04-02 The Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam, the world’s most comprehensive collection of works by Dutch Golden Age masters, is preparing to reopen after being closed for renovations since 2003....
50 2013-04-02 Then People’s Daily, the official mouthpiece of the , published a series of editorials and articles, including one paper titled “Defeat Apple’s Incomparable Arrogance.”

Other state organs also joined the fray. China’s State Administration of Industry and Commerce, which has oversight of business practices in China, called for “strengthened supervision” of Apple.

And in recent days, television news broadcasts have included images of Chinese journalists being turned away from Apple’s offices in China.

Apple, based in Cupertino, Calif., issued a statement in Chinese Monday. “We realize that a lack of communication in this process has led the outside to believe that Apple is arrogant and doesn’t care or value consumers’ feedback,” Mr. Cook wrote in the open letter. “We sincerely apologize for any concern or misunderstanding this has brought to the customers.”

Some media analysts and bloggers have called the media frenzy over Apple’s warranty policies bizarre because of the ferocity of it.

Several online bloggers, for instance, noted that Chinese celebrities who posted online shortly after the television broadcast on March 15 seemed not to be doing so spontaneously, but at the urging of the state broadcaster. The suspicions arose after one celebrity’s post ended with the line: “to publish around 8:20 p.m.”

Other analysts speculate that the continuing media blitz against Apple is aimed at showing what the government can do to American technology giants, even those as successful as Apple.

The criticism of Apple coincides with the Obama administration’s pressure on on cybersecurity issues. A growing number of American companies have complained about computer hacking attacks that seemed to be originating in China.

And earlier this year, several members of Congress moved to restrict two of China’s biggest telecommunications equipment makers, Huawei and ZTE, from doing business in the United States because of concerns that they could engage in espionage.

Sprint Nextel and SoftBank, its Japanese suitor, are expected to enter an agreement with American law enforcement officials to allay such national security concerns. It will restrict the combined company’s ability to pick suppliers for its telecom equipment and systems, like Huawei and ZTE.

Bill Bishop, a Beijing technology analyst and publisher of the online newsletter Sinocism China, said it was difficult to know what prompted the investigation by the state media, but he noted that Apple’s explosive growth in China might have outpaced the company’s ability to fully train and prepare its work force and management team to deal with the challenges of the Chinese market.

“Whatever the merits of the case, Apple’s not going to win here,” Mr. Bishop said in an interview Monday. “Apple can’t fight this.”

Anna Han, an associate professor of law at Santa Clara University, said Mr. Cook’s letter of apology was a smart tactic and a “very Chinese thing to do.” She compared it with public apologies that plaintiffs will sometimes ask for from defendants in Chinese courts. That action, combined with the change in its warranty policy, “sort of takes the wind out of the government’s sails,” said Ms. Han, who advises American companies doing business in China.

“It says, ‘We’re accused of something and we’re doing something about it.’ ”

Ms. Han said it was possible that the Chinese state media were taking an aggressive approach toward Apple in part to help Chinese companies that could compete more closely with Apple over time, like ZTE. While past attacks on Western companies have been related to food and drug safety issues, she said the Apple warranty issues were relatively minor, suggesting they were motivated by a form of protectionism.

Apple has been riding a wave of popularity in China with revenue reaching $20 billion during the last year. In its most recently reported quarter, sales in China were about 13 percent of the company’s total sales, up from 9 percent a year earlier.

Apple has occasionally apologized or made policy changes when controversies in the United States over its products have erupted, even in cases where the company felt the issues were blown out of proportion.

In 2010, Apple agreed to give iPhone customers a free bumper for their devices after some found that holding their iPhones directly weakened its wireless signal. Last year, Mr. Cook published a letter of apology to Apple customers after the company released an online maps service that contained incorrect addresses, distorted aerial imagery and other problems.
51 2013-04-02 Not just that. “I’m not allowed to go to school functions for my son,” he said.

The Norfolk Four were accused of involvement in the 1997 rape and murder of Michelle Moore-Bosko in Norfolk, Va. They had no criminal histories, and DNA evidence implicated only another man, Omar Ballard, who confessed to committing the crime by himself. No scientific evidence linked the sailors to the crime.

But the Norfolk Four confessed, under what their lawyers said was coercive questioning from Detective Robert . Their confessions did not match the details at the crime scene or align with one another.

But a confession, even a false one, is a powerful thing. The three other sailors were sentenced to life in prison for murder and rape. Mr. Wilson, convicted only of rape, received a shorter sentence.

Mr. Ford, the detective, has since been convicted of extortion and making false statements to the in another case. He is serving a 12-year sentence.

In 2009, Gov. granted conditional pardons to the three members of the Norfolk Four still in prison, setting them free. “I conclude that the petitioners have raised substantial doubts about their convictions and the propriety of their continued detention,” he said. But he did not exonerate them, and he did nothing for Mr. Wilson, who was already out.

“Governor Kaine just didn’t have the courage of his convictions,” said George H. Kendall, a lawyer for one of the other sailors. “Eric Wilson has just been in no man’s land ever since.”

In August, a divided three-judge panel of the federal appeals court in , Va., refused to hear Mr. Wilson’s case. The majority’s explanation was perfectly reasonable as a matter of legal logic: you have to be in custody to file a habeas petition, and Mr. Wilson was out. On the other hand, people on probation or parole are considered to be in custody when they file petitions, on the theory that they are under government control as a consequence of their convictions.

In a concurrence, Judge Andre M. Davis said the court’s precedents required him to vote against Mr. Wilson. But the judge said Mr. Wilson’s case was compelling. “Morally and legally, he is clearly entitled, in my judgment, to a judicial forum,” Judge Davis wrote.

That was the concurrence. In dissent, Judge James A. Wynn Jr., wrote that he was “deeply troubled that our legal system would be construed to prevent a person with compelling evidence of his actual innocence and wrongful conviction from accessing a forum in which to clear his name.”

“This court has the authority — indeed, the moral imperative — to grant Wilson the hearing that he seeks,” Judge Wynn wrote.

If the appeals court majority is right, though, Mr. Wilson may have just one way to get a court to look at his case: he can violate the sex-offender law and risk another prison term.

“Surely federal habeas law should not be understood to establish a Kafkaesque regime in which a wrongfully convicted and actually innocent person may challenge continuing burdensome registration requirements only by committing a new crime that will return him to prison,” Mr. Wilson’s lawyers at the Yale Law School’s Supreme Court Clinic wrote in a brief seeking Supreme Court review.

Kenneth T. Cuccinelli II, ’s attorney general, did not bother to file a response, suggesting to the justices that he viewed the case — one that had so troubled two appeals court judges — as too frivolous to warrant consideration.

Last week, the Supreme Court disagreed, instructing Mr. Cuccinelli to file a brief by April 25. A spokeswoman for his office declined to comment on the case, Wilson v. Flaherty, No. 12-986.

Mr. Wilson, for his part, said he was watching the case with wary interest. He did not sound as bitter as you might expect. But he did not sound hopeful, either.
52 2013-04-02 MTV has suspended production on its reality series  &#x201C;Buckwild&#x201D;  in the wake of news that one of its most popular cast members, Shain Gandee, was found dead on Monday. Details about Mr. Gandee&#x2019;s death remained unclear on Monday...
53 2013-04-02 Thriftland U.S.A., a large second-hand store in the South Bronx, seems an unlikely place to claim a piece of New York Yankees history. &#xa;   &#xa;&#x201C;I hate the Yankees &#x2014; every time there&#x2019;s a home game, it totally messes up the...
54 2013-04-03 It’s money we owe to ourselves. Really....
55 2013-04-03 Alexandra Horowitz, a dog cognition expert, interviews dog owners about the names of their pets.
56 2013-04-03 Federal authorities plan to issue a stinging critique of how banking regulators responded to wide-ranging foreclosure abuses, blaming officials for a bureaucratic maze that delayed relief to homeowners....
57 2013-04-03 The recent spurt in bank business lending is starting to flash some warning signs. The concern is that banks are making loans to businesses at rates that are so low that they may end up being unprofitable for the lenders....
58 2013-04-03 The photographer Greg Kessler captures the transformations of real women, with professional makeup by Tina Turnbow....
59 2013-04-03 John Breit, the former top risk manager at Merrill Lynch, says that mathematical models fail because they don’t account for human frailty....
60 2013-04-03 A consultant offers advice on picking the right system to manage customer relations....
61 2013-04-03 A Consumer Reports analysis of five generic drugs found Costco offered the lowest prices....
62 2013-04-03 Roger Ebert, the influential film writer for The Chicago Sun-Times, said that despite having written more than 300 movie reviews last year, “I must slow down now.”...
63 2013-04-03 The pro-choice side is usually on the defensive. But active attempts to protect reproductive freedom are not unheard of....
64 2013-04-03 Recent graduates do not question or doubt a job that has a tough mission. They know how to survive, will follow a vision and want to make a difference....
65 2013-04-03 Shares of Vodafone fell in London trading on Wednesday after Verizon Communications said it did not “currently have any intention to merge with or make an offer for Vodafone, whether alone or in conjunction with others.”...
66 2013-04-03 Brian Lindeman, the director of financial aid at Macalester College, answers questions about understanding financial aid packages....
67 2013-04-03 Mr. Evans said the Fed would have sufficient warning of inflationary pressures to keep price increases under control. Mr. Lacker said he was worried the Fed was overconfident about its ability to manage the risk.

Both men emphasized that their views could prove to be wrong.

Their basic difference is about whether it would be better to do too little or too much.

The Fed is trying to stimulate the economy by suppressing interest rates, reducing borrowing costs and encouraging risk-taking. It intends to hold short-term rates near zero at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6.5 percent. The rate stood at 7.7 percent in February. To hasten that process, the Fed also is buying $85 billion a month of Treasury and mortgage-backed securities.

The Fed’s course continues to be set by its chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and a centrist majority he has carefully assembled who regard asset purchases as necessary and effective. In recent months, Mr. Bernanke and his supporters have argued forcefully that the risks of doing too little exceed the risks of doing too much.

“I do not claim that there are no costs or risks associated with our unconventional monetary policy regime,” one of Mr. Bernanke’s closest allies, William C. Dudley, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said last month. “But I see greater cost and risk in moving prematurely to a policy setting that might not prove sufficiently accommodative to ensure a sustainable, strengthening recovery.”

Mr. Bernanke said last month that the Fed’s next step is likely to be a reduction in the volume of monthly asset purchases rather than an abrupt cessation. And even that first step may not come for some time.

Dennis P. Lockhart, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, said Tuesday that he thought the Fed would need to keep buying bonds at least until the end of this year, and possibly into next year.

“There are encouraging developments in the economy, to be sure, but the evidence of sustainable momentum that will deliver ‘substantial improvement in the outlook for the labor market; is not yet conclusive,” Mr. Lockhart said. “I favor a ‘wait and watch’ mode for the time being. Several more months of positive data — especially in a range of employment data — would give me confidence that the economy has real traction and is unlikely to backslide.”

Mr. Evans made clear that he, too, wants the Fed to keep buying bonds. He has said that the central bank needs to demonstrate that its commitment to reduce unemployment equals its commitment to control inflation.

The Fed is charged by Congress with minimizing unemployment, which has persisted at high levels since the financial crisis, and stabilizing prices.

“Our credibility will ultimately be judged by how we do on both of these mandates, not just the price mandate,” Mr. Evans said Tuesday night. “I think we will be judged very badly” if officials do not act forcefully to reduce unemployment and instead, he said, “worry obsessively” about inflation.

Only one Fed official has gone further than Mr. Evans and suggested that the Fed should increase its efforts to stimulate the economy.

Narayana Kocherlakota, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, reiterated in a speech Tuesday that the Fed should hold short-term rates near zero at least so long as the unemployment rate was above 5.5 percent, one percentage point lower than the Fed’s current 6.5 percent threshold.

Mr. Lacker, by contrast, said Tuesday night that he saw little evidence the Fed’s efforts were helping the economy. He said that reflected the limits of monetary policy, particularly the experimental strategies the Fed has deployed in recent years. He also noted that the Fed had repeatedly overestimated the strength of the recovery.

“There’s little more that we can do,” Mr. Lacker said of monetary policy. “There’s little more that we can contribute to growth.”
68 2013-04-03 Obscured by all the numbers is that the various technologies promoted as alternatives to gasoline — batteries, fuel cells or natural gas — are now facing a refined internal combustion engine. The federal government in large part drove automakers toward engine improvements by requiring them to essentially double fuel efficiency by 2025.

At the same time, the federal government has established mandates for increasing amounts of renewable fuels in the gasoline mixture. While that mandate has not yet worked out on the schedule Congress intended, it is clear that gasoline — the product that federal and state governments have been hoping for a quarter-century to replace with a variety of alternatives — is actually a moving target.

Gloria Bergquist, a spokeswoman for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, a trade association, compared the car to the person in Zeno’s Paradox who walks half the distance to an objective, and then half of the remainder, then half again of what remains. The person gets closer and closer but does not quite reach the end point, which in this case would be a car producing zero emissions.

“The alternatives are having a harder time keeping pace,” Ms. Bergquist said. “Once they were further ahead. Now it really is a horse race.”

The race is reflected in the E.P.A.'s mind-boggling terminology for clean cars. First there were Low Emission Vehicles, then Ultra Low Emission Vehicles. As the standards got even tighter, “ultra” was not enough, and there were Super Ultra Low Emission Vehicles. Then there were Zero Emission Vehicles, or ZEV, meant to be electrics, and then internal-combustion cars named, with no apparent sense of irony, Partial Zero Emission Vehicles.

The pursuit of an all-of-the-above strategy (a phrase popularized by President Obama but in practical use in the field of transportation energy and pollution since the early 1990s) assures that options will compete with each other, and not all will cross the finish line.

In the view of Mr. Lyons, the former E.P.A. official, the government can promote fledgling alternatives but not make them popular if the underlying technology is too expensive or inadequate to consumers’ needs. And among the technologies making strides are gasoline engines that are getting smaller, lighter and much more fuel efficient, he said.

Many environmental advocates, however, reject the idea that gasoline has an edge in a long-term competition with nonfossil fuels. Although environmentalists embrace the improvements in gasoline and the internal combustion engine, they say they are not meant to meet international goals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80 percent by 2050.

“We still need to get to an electric-drive fleet to meet our long-term carbon goals,” said Luke Tonachel, the director of clean vehicles at the Natural Resources Defense Council.

He and other experts are still counting on a much greater penetration of electric vehicles, even if the vehicles have so far failed to become a mass-market product.

At the Union of Concerned Scientists, David Friedman, deputy director of the clean vehicles program, said that the Tier 3 proposal was a sign of success driven by the alternatives. “There is a long history of exactly this happening,” he said, recalling that when methanol was being promoted as a cleaner fuel the oil companies said, “'Hey, we can clean up our fuel, too.''’

Something cleaner will have to be developed, he said, because one-third of Americans live in places that are out of compliance with federal air quality rules at least part of the time, partly because of tailpipe emissions from cars and trucks.

In the meantime, he said, the competition was driving some air improvements. “You can connect the zero-emission vehicle mandate to the Tier 3 standards we see today,” he said. “ZEV set the long-term bar, and the auto industry innovated until they could meet some of those standards, and that’s where we got Tier 3.”
69 2013-04-03 An important point for Animal Planet’s owner, Discovery Communications, which has withheld most of its television programming from the Web, is that the new Web channels are additive, in that they do not use anything that already appears on the main Animal Planet channel.

“This is a complementary channel that expands the brand, but isn’t doing what we’re doing on TV,” said JB Perrette, the chief digital officer for Discovery.

Someday, the Cockroach Cam might show up right next to Animal Planet on a next-generation television guide. Discovery can sell ads on both, though executives at the company acknowledge that for now the cheap animal cams are only an incremental source of revenue.

Animal cams have existed online for as long as there have been webcams. Perhaps the most famous is the Shiba Inu Puppy Cam, which became something of a sensation when it was started by a couple in San Francisco in 2008. The New York Times has featured on its Web site a Hawk Cam, chronicling the red-tailed hawks of Washington Square Park, since 2011.

Generally speaking, the cams that have attracted a rabid following are managed by amateurs or nonprofit groups, not by companies looking to profit from them. So Animal Planet is treading lightly. In some cases it planned to redistribute existing cams, like the beluga and sea nettle cams already operated by Explore.org, a division of the Annenberg Foundation.

Jason Damata, a media adviser for Explore.org, said the group has set up 50 cams around the world “purely to inspire people to fall in love with the world again and give them a break.” He said the cams are particularly popular during the day, when many people are at work and presumably taking a break.

The Explore.org cams picked up by Animal Planet will not have any advertising at first. “We may work out a revenue model that helps other charities, but for now we are happy to gain access to their audience,” Mr. Damata said.

In other cases, zoos and sanctuaries have given Animal Planet access to set up cams and attach ads to the streams. That’s how the Ant Cam came about, courtesy of the Audubon Butterfly Garden and Insectarium in New Orleans, and the Kitten Cam — from a playpen at the Washington Animal Rescue League — set up to promote a TV show called “Too Cute.” The channel is operating one cam, the Wild Bird Cam, on its own.

The wild stars of the webcams are unpredictable, and that’s partly why the concept can be so entertaining (and, at other times, a snooze).

The Web channels, save for the ones from Explore.org, will be interrupted every eight minutes or so by commercials. A spokeswoman for Animal Planet said Merial, the maker of Frontline flea and tick control treatment, was the first sponsor. Discovery says the cams will add to existing deals with some advertisers, and be an enticement to others that haven’t bought ads on Animal Planet before.

For example, Orkin, a manufacturer of pest control products that has never advertised on the main channel, will be the sponsor of the Cockroach Cam in June.

“Who would have thought you could easily find a sponsor for a Cockroach Cam?” Mr. Perrette said with a laugh.

Animal Planet expects that the cams will serve as a sort of wallpaper for some viewers — especially since they are made for big-screen streaming. Ms. Kaplan said that when she took over Animal Planet, her husband proposed that “starting at 2 in the morning, you should have tropical fish all night long.”

“I’m making his dreams come true,” she said.

She and Mr. Perrette cited the traffic statistics for the existing webcams, like the feline one, as evidence that viewers did want access to more live streams of animal habitats.

“It’s proven that people watch this stuff and can’t get enough of it, frankly,” Mr. Perrette said.

Unbeknown to you, the reader, this column took an unusually long time to finish. It was the Puppy Cam’s fault.
70 2013-04-03 With the borders among music, film and sports growing ever blurrier, leading agents and their companies increasingly see sports as the next frontier. Athletes command contracts worth hundreds of millions of dollars — an irresistible prospect especially if the film industry continues to stagnate and the television and music worlds fragment further.

Creative Artists, which has long been a blue-chip Hollywood agency representing stars like Tom Cruise and Brad Pitt, now represents more than 800 athletes, including Carmelo Anthony of the Knicks and Buster Posey, who recently signed a $167 million deal with the San Francisco Giants. Creative Artists has been looking to expand even further into the sports world since at least 2010, when the agency sold a 35 percent stake to the buyout firm TPG Capital. That deal put Creative Artists and TPG Capital in control of a $500 million investment fund that included sports as one of its priorities.

“What a Jay-Z brings to the table is an ability to connect with the athletes in a way that a player agent who came up as a lawyer or accountant never will,” said Marc Ganis, president of SportsCorp, which brokers team sales. “Jay-Z can say, ‘We both came from humble beginnings, both of us have women chasing us, both of us want to make a lot of money, but not pay a lot in taxes.’ Then, there’s the aura around him.”

Roc Nation Sports represents the latest piece of the Jay-Z empire, which already includes nightclubs, video games, a clothing line and a small ownership stake in the Nets. It is widely seen as a savvy move that will capitalize on his success rebranding the Nets, and attract internationally known athletes, who double as some of his biggest fans. It also creates yet another potential windfall for him.

In baseball, agents typically receive 5 percent of a deal. Cano, a 30-year-old All-Star second baseman, is expected to command at least a $200 million contract whether or not he becomes a free agent at the end of the season, which means Roc Nation and Creative Artists could earn as much as $10 million on Cano alone. It was unclear how Roc Nation and Creative Artists would divide their fees, and how much Jay-Z would receive.

Roc Nation is the entertainment company that Jay-Z founded through the $150 million deal he struck with Live Nation in 2008. It has a record label with a handful of artists attached, as well as a music publishing division for songwriters, but the company, a joint venture with Live Nation, is primarily known for its management division.

Although still a boutique firm — the top management companies in music represent far more acts — Roc Nation has quickly built a strong reputation for innovative and aggressive management, in part because of the company’s president, Jay Brown.

“Because of my love of sports, it was a natural progression to form a company where we can help top athletes in various sports the same way we have been helping artists in the music industry for years,” Jay-Z said in a statement.

Cano will have his pick of suitors when his contract expires unless the Yankees re-sign him before then. He described the decision to sign with Roc Nation as a move to “take a more active role in my endeavors both on and off the field.”

But it was a drastic and very public breakup with his agent Scott Boras, who has established himself over the past 25 years as the most powerful agent in baseball, feared by owners and coveted by players. He has regularly negotiated major deals for many of the game’s biggest stars, seemingly always extracting far bigger contracts than anyone thought possible. In recent years, he has had a hand in securing $275 million for Rodriguez, $214 million for Prince Fielder and $18.9 million for Bryce Harper before he played a major-league game.

It is not unprecedented for a player to defect from Boras — Cano was the third Yankee to do so in recent years — but the decision still reverberated across the sports world on Tuesday.

The N.B.A. said in a statement that there was “no prohibition on N.B.A. owners having an interest in businesses that represent non-N.B.A. athletes.” The Nets did not describe how Jay-Z’s new arrangement would affect his role with the team other than to say, “We fully support all of Jay-Z’s endeavors.”

Berkowitz, the spokesman, said Jay-Z was concentrating on baseball, apparently steering clear of that potential conflict. “The main thing is to launch the company with an All-Star like Robinson Cano,” Berkowitz said.

Some analysts said that they expected that Jay-Z would add a sprinkling of celebrity dust to Creative Artists’ sports division, but that he would do little more than bring athletes to the table.

“This is really an arrangement with C.A.A.,” said Jordan Kobritz, the chairman of the sport management department at SUNY Cortland and a former owner of a minor league baseball team in Daytona, Fla. “Jay-Z is part of their recruiting arm because he has access, and is a public entity, and New York is his cradle.”

At least one rival agent dismissed Roc Nation’s move into sports as “a marketing deal.”

“I don’t know a lot about writing songs, and he probably doesn’t know about negotiating player deals,” said the agent, who declined to comment on the record about a competitor.

If Jay-Z does not know about negotiating such deals, he is about to find out — perhaps with some of the top players in sports.
71 2013-04-03 Yu Darvish was one out from a perfect game when Marwin Gonzalez grounded a single between the pitcher’s legs, and the Texas Rangers beat the Houston Astros, 7-0, on Tuesday night.

Darvish, a right-hander from Japan, struck out 14 and was in complete control before Gonzalez smacked the first pitch up the middle. Darvish was unable to get his glove down in time, and the ball skittered into center field.

The Texas infielders immediately came to the mound, and Manager Ron Washington joined them. Washington patted Darvish on the chest and then signaled for a reliever.

Darvish became the first pitcher to lose a perfect game with two outs in the ninth inning since Armando Galarraga of Detroit on June 2, 2010. Of course, Galarraga was denied only because of an infamous missed call at first base by the umpire Jim Joyce, who later admitted he blew the play.

On the second full day of the major league season, Darvish nearly picked up right where baseball left off last year, when there were a record three perfect games, thrown by Philip Humber, Matt Cain and Felix Hernandez.
72 2013-04-03 Rodriguez, who was represented by Boras at the time, listened closely to Jay-Z and signed a 10-year, $275 million deal with the Yankees two weeks later. Rodriguez later fired Boras, but he remains close to both Jay-Z and Cano, and it is possible he helped persuade his teammate to switch agents.

The Yankees also know that Cano, as part of Jay-Z’s partnership with C.A.A., will now be represented by Brodie Van Wagenen, one of C.A.A. Sports’ top agents. Unlike Boras, Van Wagenen has a history of negotiating large extensions between his star clients and their teams before those players reach free agency. That list includes Ryan Braun and the Milwaukee Brewers, Ryan Zimmerman and the Washington Nationals, Matt Cain and the San Francisco Giants, and Ryan Howard and the Philadelphia Phillies. The Yankees did not play on Tuesday, but Cano may address his decision before Wednesday night’s game at Yankee Stadium against Boston. On Tuesday, he issued a statement that said he had reached a point in his career in which he was ready to take a more active role in his affairs.

“I am confident that the pairing of Roc Nation Sports and C.A.A. Sports will be essential in helping me accomplish my short- and long-term goals,” the statement said. “I am making this important decision now so I can keep my focus on helping the Yankees succeed in 2013, while minimizing any distractions for me and my teammates.”

Jay-Z’s new agency filed certification papers with the Major League Baseball Players Association on Tuesday, which the union was expected to approve. C.A.A. Sports is already certified with the union and, in the N.B.A., is closely affiliated with the Knicks, representing Carmelo Anthony, J. R. Smith and Coach Mike Woodson.

Van Wagenen issued a statement on Tuesday in which he said C.A.A.’s mandate was to minimize Cano’s distractions “while helping him achieve his goals on and off the field.” One way to do so, of course, is to have him sign an extension with the Yankees that eliminates speculation about where he would play after this season.

Many assumed Boras was planning to take Cano to free agency, but with so many teams now awash in new television money, even several of his clients have agreed to extensions rather than go to free agency. That list includes shortstop Elvis Andrus, who just signed an eight-year, $120 million extension with the Texas Rangers.

Cano had been contemplating a change in agents for several weeks and had been interviewing several candidates before settling on Jay-Z and his new company, according to two baseball officials who asked not to be named because they were not authorized to speak on the matter. On March 13, perhaps not coincidentally, Cano and teammate C. C. Sabathia attended a Miami Heat game and met both Jay-Z and LeBron James.

Cano submitted papers to the players association Tuesday notifying it of his change in representation. Players sign 12-month contracts with agents and may switch at any time. But the previous agent does retain some rights and can file a grievance and make financial claims, which are settled in arbitration.

But whatever Boras may receive in that process is unlikely to match what he would have received if Cano was still his client. But he is not.
73 2013-04-03 Click. The Red Sox’ Jackie Bradley Jr., up from Class AA ball, wangled a hugely professional walk from C. C. Sabathia. A star is born.

Click. Somebody named Collin Cowgill, wearing Lenny Dykstra’s No. 4, hit a grand slam for the Mets. Just don’t open a financial services business, kid.

Suddenly, in my hometown, two home openers at the same time: the Yankees in the Bronx, the Mets in Queens. I called it Double Day, in honor of the general who did not invent baseball.

Not wanting to go to the ballpark yet — there will be plenty of time and tickets later — I decided to start with a glut of baseball on television and radio. Let’s play two, Ernie Banks’s immortal mantra, even if simultaneously.

Actually, baseball started Monday morning on WNYC-FM in our town, with the master interviewer Brian Lehrer hosting Jim Wallis of Sojourners, one of the more prophetic voices in religion today. They were talking about Wallis’s new book but swerved to what Wallis called the communality of baseball, the pace and structure and history that draw people together. When he is not speaking up for the poor and the disenfranchised, Wallis belongs to a fantasy league.

Talk about fantasy: the last time New York had double home openers was April 17, 1956, when the town had three baseball teams. I looked it up on Retrosheet.

Coming off their only World Series championship, the Brooklyn Dodgers drew 24,236 fans as Robin Roberts of the Phillies beat Don Newcombe, 8-6. Roberts went nine innings, giving up nine hits and four walks. No pitch counts back when. A youngster named Drysdale mopped up for the Dodgers in his major league debut. Oh, yes, the game lasted all of 2 hours 36 minutes.

The Giants, one season removed from a championship, drew 12,790 fans as pitcher Johnny Antonelli hit a homer and beat Bob Friend of the Pirates, 4-3. Both pitchers went the distance and the game lasted 2:15.

Two years later, both teams were in California. Let’s hope that won’t happen to the two New York teams that opened Monday.

With a TV clicker in one hand and a radio dial in the other, I ambidextrously opened the season. Click. Normal Yankees history and melancholia in a telecast tribute to Mariano Rivera, entering his final season. Click. The Mets’ telecast showing the ballpark covered in snow, when fans prayed for this day of days.

Click. The Sox’ pheenom Bradley, wearing No. 44, made a desperate catch in the wind tunnel of Yankee Stadium, and then led off the next inning. On WCBS-AM radio, John Sterling recalled how Mel Allen used to note how often a fielder made a great play and promptly led off the next inning — decades and decades of baseball chatter.

Click. On WFAN-AM radio, Josh Lewin observed San Diego’s Jedd Gyorko making his first major league hit, and the Mets’ collegial captain, David Wright, commandeering the ball to give to the rookie for a souvenir.

Click. On the YES TV channel, David Cone talked about the proper grip on a baseball. Click. On SNY, Keith Hernandez fretted about Wright’s stealing his second base, needing to pace himself for 162 games.

Cone and Hernandez, old teammates together again, fevered minds in midseason form on opening day, mingling in the ozone.

Click. It did not take long for critical fan minds to start making judgments — the ball clanking off Yankees gloves and flitting through the Yankees’ defense. Kevin Youkilis showed guts by throwing home for a force from deep first base. The fans are going to take to him, the way they did Lou Piniella and Paul O’Neill.

Click. Francisco Cervelli, his heart broken when he was farmed out by the Yankees last season, drove in two runs with a two-out single, and refrained from exulting at first base, but his eyes narrowed as if to say, I’m back.

Click. The dandy little manager Terry Collins, looking more and more Casey-esque as he ages, checked off the reasons he removed Jon Niese during a dugout chat after the seventh inning. Collins could well ask of the Mets, will you still need me, will you still feed me, when I’m 64? (That happens May 27.)

Click. Kevin Burkhardt, the smooth SNY roving reporter, interviewed Emmy Rossum, actress and singer, who had performed the anthem. He asked her if she was enjoying the game. Oh, yes, she said perkily, she had a good view of the players’ backsides. He laughed and did not offer a follow-up question.

Click. Ominous dark clouds looming in from left field in the Big Theme Park in the Bronx.

Click. Detritus swirling around the infield at New Shea.

The elements and the ages blending together, outdoors and timeless, baseball in the city of Ruth and Mathewson and Robinson.

Click. In the sweetest coda to the day, a 31-year-old lefty, Scott Rice, made his major league debut, mopping up the ninth, with an odd delivery, balls breaking into the dirt, striking out two, the stuff of opening day.

Double Day is over. In New York, fans have reason to be wary on opposite sides of the Robert F. Kennedy, nee Triborough, Bridge. Will the Yankees’ injuries heal? Will these obscure Mets hold up? Fans all over the map can now keep up with their favorite team on a daily basis. The Clicker Prayer has been answered.
74 2013-04-03 On Tuesday, some of the curbs Cyprus imposed on removing money from banks were softened. The restrictions had particularly hurt businesses that were not permitted to make large payments on debts they owed in the past two weeks.

The Finance Ministry lifted the ceiling on transactions between accounts and other banks to 25,000 euros from 5,000 euros. Other restrictions remain in place, including 300 euro daily withdrawal limits.

Mr. Anastasiades on Tuesday appointed a three-judge panel to look into how and why Cyprus edged close to a financial disaster that threatened to make it the first country to exit the euro. In a speech, he said the crisis arose from inept actions and omissions by people in charge of the banking sector and the economy.

Mr. Sarris had been at the front lines of the bailout negotiations, which led to one abortive deal more than two weeks ago in Brussels, followed by the final agreement early last week.

The most contentious decision in the first deal, which the Parliament rejected, would have imposed a 6.75 percent tax on bank deposits of less than 100,000 euros. Before it was abandoned, the plan was roundly criticized by economists in Europe and elsewhere as threatening the integrity of the deposit insurance system throughout the 17-country euro zone.

It was agreed to by Mr. Anastasiades in consultation with Mr. Sarris, who presented the deal to the Cypriot public in a televised news conference from Brussels on March 16.

After the Cypriot Parliament roundly rejected that plan, Mr. Sarris flew to Moscow to seek alternative sources of funding for Cyprus and its teetering banks. Those talks went nowhere.

“Mr. Sarris’s credibility was at near zero both nationally and with foreign lenders after he supported the first failed plan to tax depositors and then returned empty-handed from Moscow,” said Mujtaba Rahman, a senior analyst at the Eurasia Group.

The main provisions of the bailout deal will remain in place, including the breakup of Laiki Bank and the overhaul of the Bank of Cyprus.

But the Cypriot Parliament must still vote on a memorandum of understanding with the so-called troika of international organizations — the European Central Bank, the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund — that agreed to the bailout.

That memorandum, still being drafted, will outline the budget cuts and other conditions Cyprus will have to meet to receive its allotments of money. A parliamentary vote is expected in coming weeks. The governments of Germany and Finland, under their national rules on bailout loans, are also expected to seek the approval of their Parliaments.

The memorandum will probably be the subject of heated debate in Nicosia. Many lawmakers, already unhappy with the tough capital controls that have been slapped on bank accounts for the better part of a month, are dismayed by what they see as harsh terms that will tip Cyprus’s already enfeebled economy over the edge.

But Mr. Sarris’s resignation should “help the Cypriot government win approval for the bailout program in the Cypriot Parliament,” said Mr. Rahman, the analyst.

Michael Olympios, chairman of the Cyprus Investor Association, is among the many critics of the bailout deal because it wiped out the shareholders of Bank of Cyprus and will impose losses of up to 60 percent on depositors with more than 100,000 euros in their accounts.

“The troika is pushing us from recession to depression,” Mr. Olympios said, adding that the country may yet need to leave the euro zone. “It doesn’t matter if Mr. Sarris leaves and someone new comes in. If you don’t change the policies that are being imposed on us, then forget it.”
75 2013-04-03 BEIJING — A Tibetan activist whose long, harsh detention by Chinese authorities drew international scrutiny has been freed after serving 17 years in prison, exile groups reported on Tuesday.

The activist, Jigme Gyatso, 52, who returned to his hometown in China’s northwest Gansu Province on Monday, was said to be extremely frail after years of torture and poor medical care, according to Radio Free Asia and the exiled Central Tibetan Administration in Dharamsala, India.

“He was limping and reported having heart problems and high blood pressure,” a friend, Jamyang Tsultrim, told Radio Free Asia. “His vision was also weak.”

A former monk, Jigme Gyatso was first given a 15-year sentence for “leading a counterrevolutionary organization” after he and a group of friends secretly advocated Tibetan independence. The crimes he was accused of by a Chinese court in 1996 included distributing pro-independence leaflets and hanging a banned Tibetan flag at the Ganden monastery near Lhasa, capital of the Tibetan Autonomous Region.

Although the Chinese government has jailed hundreds of Tibetans for political crimes, Jigme Gyatso’s case drew global attention after the authorities let Manfred Nowak, the United Nations special rapporteur on torture, speak to him in 2005 in prison. In his report, Mr. Nowak urged officials to release Jigme Gyatso and cited the widespread use of electric batons, exposure to extreme temperatures and sleep deprivation in Chinese prisons.

The authorities added three years to Jigme Gyatso’s sentence after he joined other inmates in shouting out the name of the Dalai Lama, the exiled spiritual leader, as a delegation from the European Union toured their prison in 2004. According to Amnesty International, prison guards later retaliated by severely beating Jigme Gyatso and killing nine inmates.
76 2013-04-03 The phone has not stopped ringing for the last two weeks at  Tujague&#x2019;s , the century-and-a-half-old restaurant in the French Quarter of New Orleans. But it&#x2019;s not just popularity driving business. It&#x2019;s panic. &#xa;   &#xa;&#x20...
77 2013-04-03 LOS ANGELES &#x2013; With every ad campaign won or lost by Sterling Cooper Draper Pryce, every whiskey swigged, every cigarette smoked and every errant lipstick stain that turns up on the wrong collar,  &#x201C;Mad Men&#x201D;  draws nearer to its...
78 2013-04-03 It&#x2019;s easy to be fascinated by our own dreams. Yet when the dreams of others are recounted to us, so much gets lost in translation. Or, to put it more plainly: suffering through someone else&#x2019;s jump cuts and surreal metaphors can be te...
79 2013-04-03 WHEN Julia Geist was asked to draw a picture of a computer scientist last year, the 16-year-old sketched a businessman wearing glasses and a tie. Looking around at her classmates&#x2019; drawings, she saw similar depictions of men.&#xa;   &#xa;Now...
80 2013-04-03 PRICE--Alice, mother of Monroe and Vivian, born in Vienna, 1910, died Tuesday. A memorial service will be held today at 11:30am at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 W. 76 St...
81 2013-04-04 Tesla’s chief financial officer, Deepak Ahuja, pocketed profits of around $573,000 on Tesla stock on Monday, the same day that the company revised its profits forecast for the first quarter....
82 2013-04-04 Mexico’s growth prospects are attracting investment banks and investors hunting for ways to gain greater exposure to international markets....
83 2013-04-04 Best Buy on Wednesday took its best guess that the latest iPads are coming soon from Apple by slashing prices on one line of the Apple tablets by 30 percent....
84 2013-04-04 Alleged terrorist plots, each more improbable than the last, emerge every few years in Cambodia, often conveniently involving members of the opposition....
85 2013-04-04 It has been a controversial European tour for Justin Bieber, the Canadian superstar singer. Is there something new about the youth culture phenomenon he represents, or was it always like this?...
86 2013-04-04 The smallest of the Big Four cellphone carriers has stepped away from the two-year, unbreakable contract that Sprint, Verizon and AT&T live by, David Pogue writes in Thursday’s New York Times....
87 2013-04-04 Our account executives are really good at closing deals when they have the opportunity to meet with a company in person. How do we increase the number of in-person meetings?...
88 2013-04-04 Fifteen new episodes of “Arrested Development,” the cult comedy series that starred Jason Bateman as one of the few arguably sane members of a complicated family, will be posted all at once to Netflix on May 26....
89 2013-04-04 Hugh McCracken, a virtuoso guitarist who was in such demand as a studio musician that he could afford to turn down Paul McCartney’s invitation to join the band Wings in 1971, died on Friday in Manhattan. He was 70.

The cause was leukemia, his wife of 43 years, Holly, said.

Studio musicians toil in near anonymity as they support the artists whose names everyone knows. Their job is not to draw notice but to subtly enhance the stars’ work. But the elite of the music business know the best ones, and Mr. McCracken was always getting calls.

Just a partial list of the hundreds of musicians he accompanied includes Paul Simon, Bob Dylan, Steely Dan, B. B. King, Jefferson Airplane, Billy Joel, Laura Nyro, Neil Diamond, Van Morrison, Carl Perkins, the Monkees, Carly Simon and James Taylor. He recorded with all four Beatles after their breakup. He recorded with Aretha Franklin and Mr. McCartney in different studios on the same day.

Mr. McCracken contributed to a host of hits, including “Brown Eyed Girl” by Van Morrison, “Girl, You’ll Be a Woman Soon” by Neil Diamond, “Hey 19” by Steely Dan, “Happy Xmas (War Is Over)” by John Lennon and Yoko Ono, “50 Ways to Leave Your Lover” by Paul Simon and “If I Ain’t Got You” by Alicia Keys.

He would improvise his part once he apprehended the drift of a producer’s intention, his wife said. He arrived early the day Roberta Flack was recording “Killing Me Softly With His Song” and began fooling around on his classical guitar as he waited for the session to begin. Joel Dorn, the producer, asked him to play his riff again, and it became the song’s introduction.
90 2013-04-04 Lululemon, the Canadian yoga wear maker, said on Wednesday that its chief product officer was stepping down, as it updated the production problems it has had with see-through pants.

The company said the departure of Sheree Waterson, the chief product officer, was part of a plan to reorganize its product team to support long-term growth. It would not comment specifically if the departure was related to the pants problem.

“As the organization matures, organizational structure changes are often required,” the company said in an e-mail response to a query. Ms. Waterson will leave Lululemon effective April 15.

Lululemon late last month pulled its Luon pants from store shelves because the fabric was too sheer. On Wednesday, the company said that after evaluating its production issues, it found the problem stemmed from incomplete testing protocols combined with a style change in the pants pattern. Lululemon hired a new team, including senior-level positions in quality, raw materials and production, to look into the problem and oversee production of the Luon pants, which cost $72 to $98.

Luon pants, made from a combination of nylon and Lycra fibers, are one of the retailer’s product staples and account for about 17 percent of all women’s pants in its stores. The company is offering customers full refunds or exchanges. Lululemon did not say when it expected Luon pants to be back on its shelves.

Lululemon’s chief executive, Christine Day, said the company stood by the outlook it offered March 21.

At that time, the company said withdrawing Luon pants would cut its revenue by $12 million to $17 million in the first quarter and by $45 million to $50 million for the rest of the year, particularly in the second quarter. It also said it expected first-quarter earnings of 28 to 30 cents a share. It reported earnings of 32 cents a share a year ago.
91 2013-04-04 Certainly Moscow has a lot of wooing to do. A city of traffic-clogged highways and sprawling concrete apartment blocks, Moscow is widely known as a singularly difficult place to do business. It did attract the big banking houses from New York and London after the fall of Communism. But cronyism, the lack of transparency and shady accounting gave companies pause. Weak courts and selective enforcement encouraged companies to conduct business outside Russia.

Political change in Russia further sapped enthusiasm. Vladimir V. Putin, a skeptic regarding greater integration with the West, succeeded Dmitri A. Medvedev, who was seen as a modernizing figure, as president in a switch known as “the castling” for its resemblance to the chess move.

Mr. Medvedev had named senior Western bank executives to an advisory council for transforming Moscow’s financial sector. They included Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase; Vikram S. Pandit, the former chief executive of Citigroup; and Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs.

But the Global Financial Center Index, published in March by Z/Yen, a consulting agency, placed Moscow 65th out of 79 cities studied. London was first, followed by New York and Hong Kong. The ranking placed Moscow between Bahrain and Mumbai. A survey by the World Bank and the International Finance Corporation even ranked Moscow No. 30 out of 30 Russian cities for ease of doing business.

“Moscow was never going to be an international financial center,” a Western banker working here, who was not authorized to speak for his employer on the matter, said of the effort. “That was a joke.”

So Moscow is setting its sights a little lower. Its biggest problem is to be taken seriously even as a regional center.

The midsize companies in neighboring Ukraine or other former Soviet republics are choosing to go public in Warsaw. They are hardly bothering to look at the carefully laid out welcome mat in Russia. Kernel, a Ukrainian corporate farming enterprise, and Coal Energy, a Ukrainian producer of steam coal, listed in Poland, where a policy of investing pensions in the stock market helps the local exchange.

The Warsaw stock exchange, in fact, has so many Ukrainian company listings it has a Ukraine index. Micex, the Russian stock exchange, has no such index because it has so few listings.

Moscow must compete, said Mr. Sharonov, the deputy mayor, because “there are a lot of other opportunities and competitors all over the world.”

Moscow’s roadshow was intended to illustrate the city’s efforts to become more livable for foreign executives and residents, Mr. Sharonov said. A new interchange links the financial district to nearby roads, for example, easing congestion.

Also, under the federal program to promote banking here, Russian financial regulators tied up loose ends in ways that pleased stock traders and other financial professionals, but have not been widely noticed.

Russia created a central securities depository, introduced standard accounting rules for publicly listed companies and is well on the way to consolidating nearly all financial regulatory authority in the central bank by 2015. And, without much fanfare, the government now insists that all listed Russian companies report financial results in accordance with international accounting standards.

“It’s a substantive change,” said Bruce Bower, the managing director of Verno Capital, a hedge fund that focuses on Russia. “The government realized that by doing a little work, for the first time, it could make a difference.”
92 2013-04-04 She traced the problem to 2010, after Walmart reduced the range of merchandise it carried in an attempt to make stores less cluttered. Customers did not like the change, and Walmart added merchandise back, but with declining sales then, it did not add back employees, she said. “Without enough labor hours to get those items back, not to mention to do routine stocking, shelves were left bare,” Ms. Ellerbee said.

Walmart charged into the grocery market about two decades ago, realizing that frequent trips by grocery shoppers could help improve traffic. Grocery made up 55 percent of Walmart United States sales in 2012, which was flat from the previous year. The company’s grocery prices are usually about 15 percent below competitors’, according to Supermarket News.

Grocery has also been a centerpiece of its corporate responsibility strategy, as the company has trumpeted its support from Ms. Obama in selling healthy foods in underserved, low-income communities.

At the event with Ms. Obama in Springfield, , the company said it had saved customers $2.3 billion on fresh fruits and vegetables in two years.

Ms. Obama’s office said that Walmart “has been a strong partner” on the healthy-food front. “There’s still more to be done, but we look forward to continuing working with Walmart and others,” said Sam Kass, executive director of Let’s Move!, Ms. Obama’s anti- program.

Yet growth has been slowing, analysts say.

“They’re still growing share and aisles at a tremendous rate, but not at the rate they were, in part because many of the established operators that are left today are pretty strong,” said Mark Hamstra, retail and finance editor of Supermarket News.

Walmart does well in dry goods, but fresh food requires more manpower to stock and rotate goods, involves more waste and is a higher-cost operation, he said.

According to the notes from the Walmart meeting last month in obtained by , while Walmart has 20 percent of the market share in dry grocery, it has 15 percent in fresh (areas like produce, meat, deli and bakery).

customers are 71 percent confident in its fresh produce, the notes said, while Walmart customers are 48 percent confident in Walmart’s produce. In the interview, Mr. Sinclair of Walmart said he did not know where that data came from, but that “we believe that we can improve the perception of quality of produce for Walmart customers.”

The notes highlighted some stocking problems: “1 hour out of Refrigeration = 1 day less product life,” they read, adding that Walmart will change shift responsibilities so fresh food is not stocked overnight and goes out at 10 a.m., not 7 a.m. Also, Walmart will add secret shoppers to check on produce quality weekly, and add “would I buy it?” guides for employees, the notes said.

“What we’re trying to do this year is really accelerate the produce side of our business with better quality,” Mr. Sinclair said.

The company just introduced an inventory management system for produce departments nationwide that will track how many days an item has been in transit, how much shelf life remains, and what orders the company should place to meet demand. With delicate items like raspberries, “you almost need to know by the hour how long the product has been through our system,” which was hard to track when 42 distribution centers buying from hundreds of different vendors were sending around products, he said.

Mr. Sinclair said the stores would also change from putting out produce in huge amounts to displaying small quantities and “showing customers that they’re bringing fresh produce out all the time.”

Asked if the lower staffing levels in the stores was affecting replenishment, Mr. Sinclair said that he would not comment on other parts of the store, “but in terms of the produce issue, our availability challenges are the same as everyone else’s challenges across the marketplace.”

Labor groups and some employees say the low staffing levels are hurting the in-store experience.

Tsehai Scott, a manager at a Walmart who is a member of the union-affiliated employee group OUR Walmart, said “sometimes there’s a 30- or 40-minute wait in the line” because there are not enough cashiers working. With as few as 11 people on the overnight shift stocking the 218,000-square-foot store, “stocking has fallen by the wayside in what we call the consumable areas,” meaning everyday products like food or toiletries.

“The department won’t get as clean as it should,” she said, “or we’ll see spoiled food in the food department, that if we had enough hands, we could get it back to the freezer or refrigerator in time.”

Ms. Scott says she has pushed for additional staff or for more hours for existing staff, “and the answer that I receive is they want to focus on productivity with the workers that we do have,” she said. Ms. Buchanan of Walmart said that on-shelf availability was at a record high, and metrics for cleanliness and other categories were on upward trends.

Still, customers have been complaining about stocking and may not wait around for Walmart. “People are going elsewhere,” said Ms. Ellerbee of The Shelby Report.
93 2013-04-04 The $680 fee to apply for naturalization — which has nearly tripled since 1999 — effectively denies many legal permanent residents a chance to become citizens....
94 2013-04-04 David A. Stockman’s analysis of our economic situation and how we got here includes plenty of painful truth. I would, however, remove Franklin D. Roosevelt and President Obama from his villains list and replace them with Ronald Reagan and Alan Greenspan.

F.D.R.’s policies gave help to the “little guy” when help was a matter of survival, and for hundreds of millions of retirees, those policies have been the difference between poverty and a modicum of security. Handed two wars and a broken economy and political system, Mr. Obama has done well to get us to this point.

As Mr. Stockman should recall, President Reagan engaged in his own Keynesian excesses focused on the defense industry and ran up a huge debt in the process. Alan Greenspan, who never saw a bubble he could not blow bigger, gave tacit if not explicit approval to the disastrous guns and yachts policy of George W. Bush.
95 2013-04-04 For years defense lawyers had denounced the commissions system while the military prosecutors’ office asserted that all was well. Mr. Bravin’s article showed that behind the scenes some uniformed prosecutors too saw the process as flawed. Congressional Democrats asked Colonel Couch to testify before the House Judiciary Committee. But the day before the hearing the Bush administration ordered him not to appear. Despite expressions of outrage “Democratic lawmakers’ interest proved short-lived, and the issue soon was forgotten,” Mr. Bravin recounts.

Now, six year later, his book plumbs the memories of Colonel Couch and others — and mines subsequent Congressional testimony, inspector general reports and courtroom transcripts — to show how, by seeking to avoid the legitimizing constraints of the regular justice system’s checks and balances, the Bush team ended up undermining the government’s power to impose punishments for war crimes.

As Mr. Bravin writes: “The politicals had imagined that a commission made up of combat or logistics officers, unburdened by legal training, would hurry trials to conclusion rather than ponder every step with lawyerly caution. Instead, defense attorneys had seized on that very structure to gum up proceedings.”

Besides its value in synthesizing many sources into an accessible history, the strengths of Mr. Bravin’s account are the moments when he takes us inside the secretive prosecutors’ office. He shows how ideologically driven Bush appointees sneered at military lawyers because they had attended less elite law schools, while cronyism and incompetence among top officials undermined morale. Some detainees from countries whose governments supported Mr. Bush’s policies were released while equally or less culpable ones from elsewhere faced potential charges. Torture tainted several promising cases they did have. An uncooperative Central Intelligence Agency refused to provide critical information about some detainees and held on to the most important captured terrorists, leaving mostly “smaller fish.” Military prosecutors “despaired over the disconnect between commissions’ presidential conception and the project’s near irrelevance to the actual war on terrorism.”

Writers about current events face a trade-off: over time more information becomes available, but its value recedes. Fully 80 percent of Mr. Bravin’s volume is devoted to the first iteration of tribunals, now seven years gone. Like a movie montage sequence his account rapidly accelerates through the second, established under legislation enacted by a Republican Congress in October 2006; it achieved several convictions before it was shut down by President Obama in January 2009. Mr. Bravin has even less to say about the third, still unfolding, which the president revived following another overhaul by a Democratic Congress.

Mr. Bravin portrays Mr. Obama’s decision to keep tribunals, which confounded expectations created by his campaign oratory, as a simple choice to spend his political capital elsewhere, giving “the terror courts a bipartisan imprimatur that virtually ensures they will be a fixture of American law for years to come.”

This account omits a complexity: As a senator in 2006 Mr. Obama voted for Democrats’ version of the tribunals bill, the model for the latest overhaul. Mr. Bravin may also overstate the option of charging Guantánamo detainees in civilian courts under the “material support for terrorism” statute; prosecutors have concluded that the law probably did not cover conduct before October 2001, when Congress amended it to expressly cover actions by non-Americans abroad.

Still, Mr. Bravin’s book is a welcome addition to the history of national security legal policy dilemmas in the Bush era, a turbulent period whose consequences still ripple. Pretrial hearings are now moving forward for the biggest fish formerly held by the C.I.A.: Khalid Shaikh Mohammed and four other accused accomplices in the Sept. 11 attacks, and Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri, accused of plotting the 2000 bombing of the U.S.S. Cole.

A new chief prosecutor, Brig. Gen. Mark S. Martins, has asked that watchers give the twice-reformed system a chance. He has promised not to use statements tainted by torture but argues that its more flexible evidentiary rules are necessary in some cases, and notes that it has now been endorsed by presidents and Congresses of both parties. Defense lawyers continue to challenge its legitimacy.

It remains to be seen whether the current iteration has been fixed enough to succeed where previous versions collapsed, but Mr. Bravin appears skeptical, concluding that it is too late “to do commissions right the first time.”

He writes, “The question remains whether they can be done right at all.”
96 2013-04-04 Credit: Yana Paskova for The New York Times
97 2013-04-04 While King drove the Knicks to a seven-game Eastern Conference semifinal series against Larry Bird and the Celtics (who ultimately won the championship) in 1984, a severe knee injury in a meaningless game down the stretch of a lost 1984-85 season denied him the chance to team with Patrick Ewing, who was drafted months later.

Though he defied the medical odds then for a player with torn ligaments and made the All-Star team with the Washington Bullets in 1991, King’s reign in the N.B.A. elite was relatively short, which no doubt has factored into the Hall of Fame election process.

While King belongs, I have typically said, “When they do the right thing and put Dick Barnett in, that’s when I’ll campaign for Bernard.”

Barnett’s absence is an injustice decades old that reflects a time when black players were not only ignored but excluded. Besides starring on three straight N.A.I.A. championship teams in the late 1950s at what was then Tennessee A&I — and before desegregation drained talent from the smaller or historically black schools — Barnett was a key scorer and strong on-ball defender for four of the five N.B.A. championship series teams he played on.

He sacrificed numbers to meld with the likes of Jerry West and Elgin Baylor in Los Angeles and with Willis Reed, Walt Frazier and the others in New York. (He also won a title for George Steinbrenner’s Cleveland Pipers of the short-lived American Basketball League.)

Barnett was a spare part by the Knicks’ second title, having surrendered his backcourt post to Earl Monroe, with Dean Meminger as the third guard. Barnett never got the credit Monroe deservedly received for assimilating his transcendent one-on-one skills into the Knicks’ democratic approach and, most germane to the 1973 title, sitting on the bench for the last three quarters of the signature playoff victory that season, Game 7 of the conference final in Boston.

Meminger subbed in for Monroe at the start of the second quarter, primarily to slow the Celtics’ Jo Jo White, and proceeded to have the game of his life. To this day, Reed calls it “Dean’s game,” and not only did Monroe never question the benching, he and Meminger wound up toasting the Game 5 finals clinching in Los Angeles together, rather quietly, in the team hotel. They were roommates and best friends.

It is no secret that collective achievement outweighs individual exploits on the most important scorecards, but that does not mean the heights King reached in the 1980s, or what Anthony did Tuesday night in Miami and on many other a night this season is not worthy of a starred archiving in the Knicks’ history book.

But when the defensive intensity increases in the playoffs, the challenge for the Knicks will be to avoid deferring too much to Anthony, in the interest of finding and sustaining a delicate chemistry that would allow Anthony’s future Hall of Fame candidacy to evoke 1973-like memories of sharing, sacrifice and ultimate celebration.

As LeBron James routinely proved last spring — and Kobe Bryant and Michael Jordan before him — it can and has been done. Just not for four decades in New York, Monroe, Meminger & Co. will remind everyone Friday night.
98 2013-04-04 “A lot of these young people don’t have adults to cry to,” said Be-Naiah Williams, an after-school coordinator at Bunche whose 21-year-old brother was gunned down two years ago in a nightclub. “So whatever emotion they feel, they go do.”

Oakland expanded the program after an initial success six years ago. Since then, the need for an alternative discipline has become more urgent: Last year, the district faced a Department of Education civil rights investigation into high suspension and expulsion rates, particularly among African-American boys.

A report by the Urban Strategies Council, a research and policy organization in Oakland, showed that African-American boys made up 17 percent of the district’s enrollment but 42 percent of all suspensions, and were six times more likely to be suspended than their white male classmates. Many disciplinary actions were for “defiance” — nonviolent infractions like texting in class or using profanity with a teacher.

A body of research indicates that lost class time due to suspension and expulsion results in alienation and often early involvement with the juvenile justice system, said Nancy Riestenberg, of the Department of Education, an early adopter of restorative justice. Being on “high alert” for violence is not conducive to learning, she added.

Many studies have concluded that zero-tolerance policies do not make schools safer.

“We’re a terribly violent community,” said Junious Williams, the chief executive of the Urban Strategies Council. “We have not done very much around teaching kids alternatives to conflict that escalates into violence.”

Among the lost youngsters was Damon Smith, now an A student at Bunche, who said he had been suspended more than 15 times. “You start thinking it’s cool,” he said. “You think you’re going to come back to school and catch up, but unless you’re a genius you won’t. It made me want to mess up even more.”

Damon, 18, said restorative justice sessions helped him view his behavior through a different lens. “I didn’t know how to express emotions with my mouth. I knew how to hit people,” he said. “I feel I can go to someone now.”

Eight of Oakland’s participating schools have full-time coordinators like Mr. Butler, whose work is financed by the nonprofit Restorative Justice for Oakland Youth. He is often called on to handle delicate situations: 90 percent of the 250 students at Bunche have had run-ins with the juvenile system or lived in foster homes.

In one circle, students discussed racism. In another, a girl confided that she had been molested as a child. “Those boys who looked scary wrapped their arms around this girl,” Mr. Butler said. “That’s what’s missing for our kids. It’s harder to fight people you feel a closeness to.”

Recently, it appeared that jealousy had triggered a fight between two classmates. Ebony Monroe, a new student, was wearing short shorts. Jameelah Garry, who recently had a baby, was wearing a baggy flannel shirt. Jameelah slugged her. “I don’t like her,” she explained.

“If your kid was in this situation, what advice would you give her?” Mr. Butler asked gently.

Jameelah went silent, then said, “I got an anger problem, I’ll be honest with you.” She started to cry, tears welling up on glue-on eyelashes. “I lost my brother last year,” she said. “Charles. He was shot in the head after an altercation in East Oakland.”

She took off a sleeve to reveal a teal tattoo in his memory. No one at the school had known.

Betsye Steele, the principal, said that without the circle, and the trust it developed, the major source of Jameelah’s bad behavior would not have been discovered and might have escalated.

Since the program started, the school reduced its overall suspension rate to 8 percent in 2012 from 12 percent in 2011.

But restorative justice is not a quick fix, teachers’ union officials and legal experts warn. “You’re changing a culture that has been in place for a long time,” said Mary Louise Frampton, an adjunct law professor at the . “It’s a multiyear process.”

It is also not a treatment for mental illness or ideal for situations with major power imbalances, like bullying, said Barbara McClung, the district’s coordinator for behavior health initiatives. “Not every student will acknowledge they caused harm,” she added.

Approaches to restorative justice vary nationwide. Some districts allow suspensions and expulsions but now require stricter justification. Others, under pressure to reduce suspensions, put students on “administrative leave” instead. Some schools focus on formal mediation and reparation while others, like Bunche, are more spontaneous.

A recent circle at Bunche for Jeffrey, who was on the verge of expulsion for habitual vandalism, included an Oakland police officer, and the conversation turned to the probability that Jeffrey would wind up incarcerated or on the streets. The student had told Mr. Butler that he was being pressured to join a gang.

“Cat, you got five people right now invested in your well-being,” Mr. Butler told him. “This is a matter of life or death.” Jeffrey agreed to go to Mr. Butler’s classroom every day at third period to do his schoolwork.

Mr. Butler, who grew up in a vast segregated housing project in , knows the urge for retribution: Two years ago, his sister was murdered by her boyfriend. “I wanted my quart of blood,” he told students disturbed by Kiante Campbell’s death.

Then the boyfriend’s mother showed up, seeking forgiveness. “This brave little woman knocked on the door in her robe and flip-flops,” he told his classroom. “The want for revenge in my stomach lifted.”

Keeping students in school, focused on the future, is at the core of his work. So every Friday afternoon he tells them: “Y’all gotta come back Monday. Come back. I gotta see you.”

“We’re all we’ve got,” he said. “And we need to start thinking that way.”
99 2013-04-04 And speaking of the two-year contract, why aren’t you outraged about that? What other service in modern life locks you in for two years? Home phone service? Cable TV service? Internet? Magazine subscriptions? Baby sitter? Lawn maintenance? In any other industry, you can switch to a rival if you ever become unhappy. Companies have to work for your loyalty.

But not in the cellphone industry. If you try to leave your cellphone carrier before two years are up, you’re slapped with a penalty of hundreds of dollars.

If you’re not outraged by those rip-offs, maybe it’s because you think you’re helpless. All of the Big Four carriers follow the same rules, so, you know — what are you gonna do?

Last week, the landscape changed. T-Mobile violated the unwritten conspiracy code of cellphone carriers. It admitted that the emperors have no clothes. John J. Legere, T-Mobile’s chief executive, took to the stage not only to expose the usurious schemes, but to announce that it wouldn’t be playing those games anymore.

It was a moment: when somebody got so fed up with the shoddy way some business is being run (say, phone design or selling music) that he reinvented it, disruptively.

At the new T-Mobile, the Great Cellphone Subsidy Con is over. You can buy your phone outright, if you like — an iPhone 5 is $580, a Samsung Galaxy S III is $550. Or you can treat it like a car or a house: pay $100 for the phone now, and pay off the rest over time, $20 a month.

That may sound like the existing phone subsidy con, but it’s different in a few big ways. You pay only what the phone really costs. You don’t pay interest, and you stop paying when you’ve paid for the phone; in other words, your monthly bill will drop by $20 a month, just as it should. (You can also pay it off sooner, if you like. If you have a good month and want to put, say, $70 toward your phone payoff, that’s fine.)

T-Mobile doesn’t care what phone you use, either; if it works on T-Mobile’s network, you can use it. And why not? Why shouldn’t you buy one phone you really love, and use it freely as you hop from carrier to carrier? Would you buy a car that uses only one brand of gas?

Yet another radical change: There are no more yearly contracts at T-Mobile. You can leave at any time. “If we suck this month, drop us,” said Mr. Legere. “Go somewhere else.”

In the new T-Mobile world, there are only three plans.

All come with unlimited phone calls, unlimited texts, free tethering (which allows your laptop to get online via your phone) and unlimited Internet. The only difference among the plans is how much high-speed wireless Internet you get each month: 500 megabytes ($50 a month), 2 gigabytes ($60) or unlimited ($70).

After you’ve burned through that much data, your Internet speed drops to 2G speeds for the rest of the month — suitable for e-mail or pulling up a Web page, but much too slow for video. You can upgrade your plan for a given month, if you like, but the point is, you’ll never be penalized. In other words, T-Mobile’s new program has also eliminated the overage charge.

Over time, these plans can save you a huge amount of money compared with T-Mobile’s larger rivals. For a plan that matches T-Mobile’s $60 plan, Verizon would charge you $100 a month. Over two years, you’d pay $960 more.

For a plan that matches T-Mobile’s $70 plan, Sprint would charge you $110 a month. Over two years, once again, you’d pay $960 more.

AT&T doesn’t have any plans that match T-Mobile’s exactly, but you get the idea. AT&T’s $85 plan gives you 1 gigabyte of data a month — half what you get with T-Mobile’s $60 plan.

Furthermore, Verizon and AT&T don’t offer the “unlimited slower Internet” option after you’ve eaten up your monthly data allotment. Instead, they just slap you with a steep per-gigabyte overage fee ($15 a gigabyte).

Weirdly, T-Mobile’s press announcement left out what may be the biggest, best news of all: T-Mobile is the first major carrier to eliminate the ridiculous, unnecessary, airtime-eating, 15 seconds of prerecorded instructions that you hear when you want to leave a message. (“To page this person, press 5 ... When you have finished recording, you may hang up.”) When you call a T-Mobile customer, you go right to the beep. Someone should organize a parade.

This all sounds wonderful. But sooner or later, we have to acknowledge the elephant in the room: T-Mobile can afford to be the disrupter because it’s in last place. It has the fewest customers and the smallest network coverage of any of the Big Four in the United States. It can take risks because it has nothing to lose.

Part of T-Mobile’s problem is that it’s famous for not offering the iPhone and not offering the fastest kind of Internet network, known as 4G LTE.

Fortunately, the company is tackling both of those drawbacks. On April 12, it will offer the iPhone 5 — with a feature nobody else has, in fact, called HD Voice. It offers supersharp voice quality when you’re calling another phone that has HD Voice.

The company has also managed to buy, merge and lobby its way into ownership of more spectrum — expensive, very limited cellular frequencies — that will allow it to install LTE networks at last. The company says that it will have 100 million Americans covered by LTE signal by summer, and 200 million covered by year’s end.

As long as T-Mobile had a sad little network running no-name phones, it wouldn’t matter what its policies were.

But once T-Mobile’s network and phones become contenders, its much more fair, transparent, logical policies will suddenly matter. Those practices will have teeth. The other carriers will have to start paying attention.

And they should. The Great Cellphone Subsidy Con is indefensible no matter how you slice it — why should you keep paying the carrier for the price of a phone you’ve fully repaid? — and the two-year contract is an anticompetitive, anti-innovation greed machine. Those practices should stomp right across your outrage threshold.

If T-Mobile’s crazy, way-out plan succeeds, those practices may just go away. And that’s why, even if you have no intention of becoming a T-Mobile customer — maybe there’s no coverage where you live, or maybe you’re already locked into a two-year contract — you should pay attention. One of the four emperors has now put on real clothes. The question is, will the others follow suit?
100 2013-04-04 More recently, the platforms have become cheaper and easier to use, making them more of a crucial buy. With so many options available, we asked some small-business owners to tell us about their experiences.

FOR MICROBUSINESSES “Very small companies usually just need something to manage contacts,” said Ms. Larrimore. Her own firm used Batchbook until it reached 17 staff members, then it switched to Sugar C.R.M.

Taylor Aldredge, who heads branding and marketing for Grasshopper, a company in Needham, Mass., that offers a virtual phone system for small businesses, uses Buzzstream, software that helps manage social media marketing campaigns. It costs the company $40 a month for each of three users.

Mr. Aldredge wanted a way to track conversations with prospects, customers, journalists and bloggers. “I needed something that had the ability to track interactions and mentions — whether that is social media, links or press — to see which conversations were worth pursuing,” he said. The company’s customer base has grown 500 percent over the last five years.

Thanx, a San Francisco start-up that offers retail loyalty programs with rewards linked to a customer’s credit card, started with Salesforce. The service had many useful features, said Zach Goldstein, founder and chief executive of the nine-employee company, but needed “a huge amount of customization.” Mr. Goldstein could not afford to hire a consultant and felt frustrated that the system was not being used properly.

In December, he switched to Close.io, a platform that lets Thanx sales representatives make calls by clicking on a page representing a lead, without leaving the application or having to use the phone. It also sends and receives e-mails. “We started using it the day after we installed it,” he said. Thanx tested Close.io free as an early test user and now has five employees on its Lite plan, which costs $59 a month for each user.

FOR MOST SMALL BUSINESSES Scott Gerber, founder of the Young Entrepreneur Council, an invitation-only professional organization for entrepreneurs under 40, has been using C.R.M. software from Infusionsoft for about a year. The organization offers a mentoring program, and Mr. Gerber uses the software to track those who are being mentored as they go through the program and to send them specific learning materials.

“It’s easy to customize content and create the right tracks for where that content needs to go,” said Mr. Gerber, who added that the software had increased his organization’s productivity. “If I have 50 people I e-mail today and want to follow up in a week, I can send a personalized communication by writing the copy once, adding in the variables, and it will be sent out at the exact time I need to the designee of my choice.”

“Within two quarters of using it, we had 10 times the revenue per month,” Mr. Gerber said.

Derek Christian, owner and chief executive of My Maid Service, with 37 employees in its Cincinnati and Dallas offices and about $2 million in revenue, also began using Infusionsoft a year ago. Mr. Christian paid $1,200 upfront along with a $200 a month licensing fee.

He praised the company’s tech support, and also liked the drag-and-drop interface and the ability to build a customized e-mail marketing campaign. Before employing C.R.M. software, he said, a third of his company’s leads were converted to regular customers; now, he said, conversions are up to 40 percent.

Shelly K. Winson, owner of True Choice Benefits, an independent health insurance agency in Chandler, Ariz., uses Sage ACT!, a C.R.M. system owned by Swiftpage. The software is loaded onto two computers in the office and Ms. Winson pays $300 per user. It has helped increase her database of current and potential clients to 5,500 since she started in 2009. She can segment her audience for marketing purposes, and she believes the system has improved her customer service.

NOT QUITE ENTERPRISE LEVEL Enterprise C.R.M. systems, like those from SAP or Oracle, can take years, millions of dollars and a parade of consultants to put in place, but they include powerful features. Yet some enterprise-level features are available in nonenterprise systems like Salesforce, Microsoft Dynamics and a few newer platforms.

Mike Wolfe, president of WAM Enterprises, a digital marketing firm in Katonah, N.Y., uses Salesforce. His five-employee firm specializes in generating leads using social media, search-engine optimization and e-mail campaigns. Although some small-business owners say Salesforce is too complex for them, Mr. Wolfe likes the basic edition, Contact Manager, and pays $300 a year ($5 a user each month).

He said he especially liked the mobile app. “With the app, if a client needs to reach us and we weren’t planning on it that day, there’s no reason for anyone on our team to say they didn’t have the information they needed to call back,” he said.

Benjamin L. Luftman, a partner and co-founder of Luftman, Heck & Associates, a law firm in Columbus, Ohio, that has 30 employees and four offices, likes the AppExchange, an online market where vendors sell a variety of business applications that can be integrated with Salesforce. Mr. Luftman uses Salesforce’s Enterprise edition, which costs $125 per user each month, with the Conga Composer app to create packets of forms needed by the courts for each client. “I hit one button and all the fields in these forms are populated with that client’s information,” he said.

Acumen Learning, a training company in Orem, Utah, with 18 employees and $5 million in revenue, uses Insightly because it is flexible, said the company’s marketing director, Mike Wright.

“Big business C.R.M. systems tend to dictate your processes — how you will prospect someone and get them in the system,” he said. With Insightly, Mr. Wright said he can design and modify the processes his company uses. “We wanted to add two additional steps to our sales process, and it was changed overnight,” he said. He uses Insightly’s Advanced package, which costs $49 a month.

At RemoteStylist, Ms. Fallis is now using Capsule and paying $12 a user. She said it integrated easily with other applications, and she could customize data fields and segment customers for marketing initiatives.

“And Capsule’s support team is very responsive,” Ms. Fallis said. “I can’t sit back and wait for an answer when my whole operation is on hold.”
101 2013-04-04 The report will be published in Physical Review Letters on Friday.

Astronomers and others from outside the collaboration responded enthusiastically.

“A.M.S. has confirmed with exquisite precision and to high energy one of the most exciting mysteries in astrophysics and particle physics,” said Justin Vandenbroucke of the University of Wisconsin and Stanford’s SLAC laboratory.

Maria Spiropulu, a Caltech particle physicist, said, “They have exquisitely small errors and they stop the plot at the cliffhanger, so we will be asking for more.”

Others, like Gregory Tarle of the University of Michigan, cautioned that uncertainties in the galactic background of radiation might make it impossible to ever get a clean answer to the source of the positrons.

Dark matter has teased and obsessed astronomers since the 1930s, when the Caltech astronomer Fritz Zwicky deduced that some invisible “missing mass” was required to supply the gravitational glue to hold clusters of galaxies together.

According to recent measurements by the Planck spacecraft, about 27 percent of the universe, by mass, is composed of some unknown form of matter unlike the atoms that make up us and everything we can see. Astronomers cannot see it, but they can detect its gravitational tug pulling the galaxies and stars around.

Figuring out what this stuff is is important for more than cosmology. The most favored candidates for its identity are as yet undiscovered particles known as WIMPs — weakly interacting massive particles — left over from the Big Bang. Such particles could drift through the Earth like wind through a screen door. Impervious to almost everything except gravity, they would form a shadow universe clumping together into invisible clouds that then attract ordinary matter. Discovering one of them could give a lift to new theories of physics, like supersymmetry, which predicts of a whole new spectrum of so-called superpartners to the particles we already know about, not to mention explicating the nature of more than a quarter of creation.

But until now, the dark matter particles have mostly eluded direct detection in the laboratory or creation at the Large Hadron Collider.

The sky could be a different story. Such WIMPs floating in the halos around galaxies would occasionally collide and annihilate one another in tiny fireballs of radiation and lighter particles, the theorists Michael Turner of the University of Chicago and Frank Wilczek of M.I.T. suggested in 1990.

The Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer is one of the most expensive, complicated and controversial experiments ever mounted in space. Built by an army of 600 scientists from 16 countries, including Italy, Germany, Russia, China and Taiwan, it took 16 years from its approval in 1995 by NASA’s administrator at the time, Dan Goldin, to get to space, on the next-to-last shuttle flight, in May 2011.

By then there were already intimations of dark matter in the heavens. Pamela, a satellite built by Italian, German, Russian and Swedish scientists, registered an excess of anti-electrons, or positrons, in space — perhaps, they said, from collisions of dark matter particles. Using data from the Fermi satellite, researchers at Stanford were also able to detect a similar excess.

Dr. Ting said his spectrometer had validated those observations with more detail and much better statistics. Among other things, as best the A.M.S. team can tell, the positrons are coming equally from all directions — a result that would favor dark matter, which should be spread evenly through the galaxy, rather than pulsars, which would be localized.

But none of the experiments has yet observed what Dr. Turner called the smoking gun of dark matter. If the signal is coming from colliding WIMPs, the theory says, the ratio of positrons to electrons will rise as the energy of the positrons and electrons rises, flattens and then drops sharply. The cutoff energy represents the mass-energy of the putative dark matter particle.

In the case of pulsars, the fraction of positrons would drop much more slowly and gradually, physicists say.

The space station spectrometer can record particles with energies as high as a trillion electron volts, Dr. Ting said, and indeed in his talk he showed individual events with positrons and electrons having energies of some 600 billion electron volts. But the data presented Wednesday ranges in energy only from a few million to 350 billion electron volts.

That data is summarized in a plot that shows the ratio of positrons to electrons rising rapidly and then ever more slowly as the energy increases. The plot runs out of data, Dr. Turner noted, just where the telltale drop should start taking place.

At CERN, Dr. Ting declined to answer questions or speculate about what happened in the empty spot at higher energies on his graph, or even when he would know. “Slowly,” he answered when asked.
102 2013-04-04 The Nasdaq composite fell 36.26 points, or 1.1 percent, to 3,218.60.

In the bond market, interest rates dropped to their lowest levels since January. The 10-year Treasury note’s price rose 13/32, to 101 21/32, while its yield fell to 1.82 percent from 1.86 percent late Tuesday. The decline in yields means investors are beginning to seek safe haven in low-risk government debt.

The Russell 2000 index, which tracks small-company stocks, fell for a third straight day, dropping 1.7 percent. It’s now down 3.5 percent so far this week, far worse than the declines in the Dow of 0.2 percent and the S.& P. of 1 percent. That is another signal that investors may be becoming more bearish about the American economy.

Small-company stocks, which did better than the Dow and the S.& P. 500 in the first three months of the year, are more vulnerable to the economy than the larger companies in the Dow and S.& P. That is because they rely far more on domestic sales than global giants like I.B.M. and Caterpillar.

The Dow Jones transportation average, an index of 20 stocks including airlines like Delta and freight companies FedEx and UPS, fell more than 1 percent for a third straight day. The index, which is regarded as a leading indicator for the economy, has fallen 3.9 percent this week.

Service companies kept growing in March, but the expansion was less than economists were expecting. The Institute for Supply Management’s index of service companies fell to 54.4 from 56 a month earlier.

Separately, the payrolls processor ADP reported that employers added 158,000 jobs last month, down from February’s gain of 237,000. The ADP report is often seen as a preview for the government’s broader survey on employment, which is due to be released on Friday.

The slowdown in hiring was partly a result of construction companies holding back on adding new employees. That sent the stocks of home-builders lower. PulteGroup fell 85 cents, or 4.3 percent, to $19.01 and D.R. Horton dropped 57 cents to $22.84.

Even though the stock market started the second quarter lower, stocks typically add to their gains after ending the first quarter up, said Sam Stovall, an equity strategist at S&P Capital IQ. Using data going back more than 60 years, Mr. Stovall says that the S.& P. 500 has gained an average of 9 percent from April to December after rising in the first quarter.

Among the stocks on the move, Zynga rose 46 cents, or 15 percent, to $3.53 after the online game maker introduced two casino games in Britain.

Abercrombie & Fitch rose $1.74, or 3.8 percent, to $47.20, making it the biggest percentage gainer in the S.& P. 500. The company said late Tuesday that it planned to expand internationally and place greater emphasis on cost control.
103 2013-04-04 WASHINGTON (AP) — Two reports showed Wednesday that American service companies grew more slowly in March and private employers pulled back on hiring. The declines suggest businesses may have grown more cautious last month after federal spending cuts took effect.

The Institute for Supply Management said that its index of nonmanufacturing activity fell to 54.4 last month. That is down from 56 in February and the lowest in seven months. Any reading above 50 signals expansion.

Slower hiring and a steep drop in new orders drove the index down. A gauge of hiring fell 3.9 points to 53.3, the lowest since November.

The group’s report covers companies that employ roughly 90 percent of the work force, including the retailing, construction, health care and financial services industries.

A separate report from the payroll processor ADP also pointed to slightly weaker hiring in March. ADP said private employers added 158,000 jobs in March, down from 237,000 the previous month. Construction companies did not add any jobs after three months of solid gains.
104 2013-04-04 It was another dose of strong medicine for Cyprus, which agreed last month to restructure an outsize banking sector by forcing huge losses on bondholders and big depositors in the country’s two biggest lenders.

Officials from the Cypriot government, which still needs its Parliament’s approval of the terms of the deal, sought to put a positive spin on the deal.

“This is an important development which brings a long period of uncertainty to an end,” Christos Stylianides, a government spokesman, said in a statement made available on Wednesday.

The bailout agreement “should have taken place a lot sooner, under more favorable political and financial circumstances,” said Mr. Stylianides, who was apparently referring to infighting in Cyprus about responsibility for the debacle.

Before the deal, the Cypriot economy was expected to shrink 3.5 percent this year, with unemployment hitting nearly 14 percent. Now, under the strict bailout measures, some experts predicted the economy could contract 5 percent or more, sending unemployment even higher.

The memorandum will not be made public before euro zone governments review it, Olivier Bailly, a spokesman for the European Commission, said at a news conference on Wednesday. Euro finance ministers will hold an informal meeting next week in Dublin, where they might give their backing, Mr. Bailly said.

Full legal approval, though, is expected only after the Parliaments in some euro area countries like Finland and Germany vote on the deal. If those approvals are completed by the end of month, Mr. Bailly said, Cyprus could receive its first aid payment in May.

The Cypriot authorities on Tuesday described elements of the agreement that they said were favorable.

Mr. Stylianides, the Cypriot spokesman, said the deal safeguarded important parts of the economy by keeping potentially valuable offshore deposits of natural gas under Cypriot jurisdiction, and by winning two more years, until 2018, to hit deficit targets and carry out privatizations.

Mr. Stylianides also said the government saved the jobs of contract teachers and of 500 civil servants, and had overcome demands by the international lenders to tax dividends.

But the memorandum could be hotly contested by the Cypriot Parliament, where many lawmakers have criticized the measures that already have been taken, like capital controls — tight restrictions on transfers and withdrawals of money — that threaten to make a bleak economic outlook even worse.

In a change partly aimed at easing those tensions, the government on Tuesday appointed a new finance minister, Harris Georgiades, to succeed Michalis Sarris, who resigned. Mr. Sarris has been criticized at home and abroad for his handling of the crisis.

Mr. Georgiades, who had been the deputy finance minister, said on Wednesday that capital controls would be lifted “gradually” and that the country would meet all of its bailout targets.

Over the course of the negotiations, the spotlight fell on whether the monetary fund was being too forceful in pressing for the country to quickly reduce its debt and impose losses on bank shareholders and big depositors. The approach strained relations with the European Commission, which had concerns about the confidence-sapping effects that such aggressive measures might have on other countries.

In an apparent show of unity on Wednesday, Ms. Lagarde jointly issued a statement with Olli Rehn, the European commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, pledging to “stand by Cyprus and the Cypriot people in helping to restore financial stability, fiscal sustainability and growth to the country and its people.”

The monetary fund’s share of the package for Cyprus was smaller than in some previous arrangements for countries like Greece. But Mr. Bailly, the commission spokesman, said it did not signal a change in policy.

The sums given by the fund depend on the “specific situation” in each country, he said, adding that the billion-euro, three-year loan for Cyprus was unanimously agreed upon by the I.M.F., the European Commission and the European Central Bank.

Ms. Lagarde said Cyprus needed to make substantial spending cuts “to put debt on a firmly downward path,” including in areas like social welfare programs. But she said the plan sought to be evenhanded.

“The fiscal and financial policies of the program seek to distribute the burden of the adjustment fairly among the various segments of the population and to protect the most vulnerable groups,” she said.

More than 95 percent of account holders at Laiki Bank, which will be closed under the plan, and at Bank of Cyprus, which is being restructured, were fully protected, she said.

The main fiscal measures, she said, included raising the country’s corporate income tax rate to 12.5 percent from 10 percent.
105 2013-04-04 On Wednesday morning, Gaza militants fired two more rockets into southern Israel. One landed at the entrance of the Israeli border town of Sderot, according to the police, and the other fell on open ground. No one was hurt.

The death of the prisoner has also stirred unrest in the West Bank. On Wednesday night, a Palestinian youth was fatally shot and three others were wounded in a clash with Israeli soldiers near the West Bank town of Tulkarem, according to Palestinian news reports.

The Israeli military said that several Palestinians had attacked a military post with firebombs and that soldiers responded with live fire. A spokeswoman said the episode was being reviewed.

The United Nations special coordinator for the Middle East peace process, Robert H. Serry, called the situation volatile and said it was “of paramount importance to refrain from violence in this tense atmosphere and for parties to work constructively in addressing the underlying issues.”

Defense Minister Moshe Yaalon of Israel said in a statement on Wednesday, “We will not allow shooting of any sort, even sporadic, toward our citizens and our forces.”

He added, “As soon as we identify the source of the fire, we will take it down without hesitation, as we did last night and in previous cases.”

But analysts said that neither Israel nor Hamas appeared eager to escalate the situation and that both sides were acting to restore the calm.

The highly charged issue of Palestinian prisoners came to the fore again after the Palestinian leadership accused Israel of deliberately delaying the treatment of the prisoner who died, Maysara Abu Hamdiya, 64. He had received a diagnosis of throat cancer two months ago and died in an Israeli hospital on Tuesday.

Mr. Hamdiya, a resident of the West Bank city of Hebron and a retired general in the Palestinian Authority security services, was detained by Israel in 2002, at the height of the second Palestinian uprising, and was serving a life term for attempted murder after sending a suicide bomber to a cafe in Jerusalem, Israeli officials said. The bomb failed to detonate.

Mr. Hamdiya’s death came amid efforts by the Western-backed Palestinian leadership to place the prisoner issue high on the diplomatic agenda, with Secretary of State John Kerry expected in the region next week to press for a renewal of peace talks. Emotions over the prisoner issue have been running high among Palestinians in recent months, leading to protests in support of prisoners on hunger strikes and over the death of a prisoner in February under disputed circumstances.

Israel’s Ministry of Health said in a statement that an autopsy, held on Wednesday in the presence of a Palestinian expert of forensic medicine, showed that Mr. Hamdiya had died from complications of cancer and noted that he had been a heavy smoker, a factor that it said contributed to throat cancer.

The Palestinian Authority distributed a copy of an affidavit that it said was signed by Mr. Hamdiya’s lawyer, Rami Alami, who visited him in jail on March 12. Mr. Alami said he found Mr. Hamdiya to be tired and weak and unable to walk without help.
106 2013-04-04 Earlier this week, the Defense Department announced that two of the Navy’s Aegis-equipped missile defense warships were positioned in the Pacific to watch North Korea. Installing the land-based missile system in Guam will free up the ships, which have radar and interceptor missiles, to be repositioned closer to the North Korean coast.

That would give President Obama a wider range of options if the North Koreans fire their missiles in a test or at a target.

“We haven’t made any decisions,” a senior administration official said. “But we want as many options as possible.”

The last time the United States seriously prepared to shoot down North Korean missiles was the summer of 2006, when the defense secretary at the time, Donald H. Rumsfeld, ordered the Army to prepare to intercept a long-range Taepodong missile from its antiballistic missile base in Alaska during a North Korean test. But the North Korean missile broke up in flight.

Last month, as the North escalated its threats, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel announced that the United States would bolster long-range ballistic missile defenses in Alaska and California. But that process will take several years; the Thaad is intended to deter a threat to Guam, which is considered to be on the outer edge of the North’s missile range. The system includes a truck-mounted launcher, interceptor missiles, an integrated fire control system and advanced tracking radar.

Mr. Hagel, speaking at the National Defense University in Washington, referred to North Korea’s increased nuclear ability in response to a question from the audience.

“They have a nuclear capacity now,” he said. “They have a missile delivery capacity now. And so, as they have ratcheted up their bellicose, dangerous rhetoric, and some of the actions they have taken over the last few weeks present a real and clear danger.”

Mr. Hagel’s carefully worded comment about the North’s “nuclear capacity” was significant; on Tuesday, Secretary of State John Kerry insisted that the United States would never recognize the North “as a nuclear state.” The difference pointed to the administration’s dilemma: after three nuclear tests, there is no doubt the country can trigger a nuclear explosion, but the United States is adamant that it will not reward the North by accepting its arsenal as a permanent reality.

In recent days the North has said it would never negotiate away its nuclear weapons arsenal, and it has taken steps toward expanding it. It declared it would restart a nuclear reactor that gave it a small stockpile of plutonium. Photographs published Wednesday on the Web site 38 North, which follows North Korean developments, show new construction at the aging reactor, dating back several weeks.

The jointly run industrial complex, in the North Korean town of Kaesong, had continued to operate for days since the North threatened to shut it down. But on Wednesday, more than 480 South Koreans who showed up at a border crossing were denied permission to cross, said the Unification Ministry of South Korea, which is in charge of relations with the North. North Korea promised to allow 861 South Koreans currently staying in Kaesong to return home if they wished, the ministry said. But with no replacements arriving, only 33 immediately decided to return home.

It was not the first time that North Korea had disrupted the park’s operation. It blocked cross-border traffic three times in 2009, once for three days, out of anger over joint military drills by South Korean and American troops. That blockade was lifted when the military exercises ended. The current American-South Korean military drills are to continue until the end of April.

Meanwhile, the United States and South Korea are entering the final stretch of long-stalled negotiations over another highly delicate nuclear issue: South Korea’s own request for American permission to enrich uranium and reprocess spent nuclear fuel.

Allowing South Korea to develop either the enrichment or reprocessing technologies would be a rare exception, one that nonproliferation advocates said would set a bad precedent. They said it would undermine not only Washington’s global efforts to curb the spread of such activities, but also American efforts to persuade North Korea and Iran to give up their nuclear programs.

Mr. Kerry and his South Korean counterpart, Foreign Minister Yun Byung-se, discussed the long-running South Korean desire in Washington on Tuesday and said they would take it up again when Mr. Kerry visits Seoul next week. Both sides hope for a compromise before the meeting between Mr. Obama and President Park Geun-hye of South Korea that is scheduled for next month in Washington. Ms. Park, who was elected in December, made winning American concessions on the issue a top campaign pledge.

In South Korea, where people remember their recent history of war and foreign occupation, popular support has often surged for arming the country with nuclear weapons — especially when people doubt the American commitment to defend their country or when the North’s threats intensify.

“When the thug in the neighborhood has gotten himself a brand new machine gun, we can’t defend our home with a stone,” Chung Mong-joon, a ruling party leader and vocal champion of “nuclear sovereignty” for South Korea, recently said, referring to the North Korean nuclear threat. “At a time of crisis, we are not 100 percent sure whether the Americans will cover us with its nuclear umbrella.”

But such a call, even if reflective of popular sentiments, has always been tamped down by unequivocal rebuttals from government policy makers. And the United States flew nuclear-capable B-52 and B-2 bombers in recent training sorties over the Korean Peninsula, demonstrating its commitment to a nuclear umbrella for the South Korean ally.
107 2013-04-04 BARSHOP--Morton. Our heartfelt condolences to Cindy and Howard on the loss of your beloved father, and to Ruth on the loss of your dear husband, Morton Barshop. The completely bare family...
108 2013-04-04 7:43 p.m. | Updated LONDON &#x2014; The push to change Barclays from a predominantly British retail bank to a global financial giant over the last two decades created a culture that put profit before customers, according to an independent report r...
109 2013-04-04 When he left physics, John Breit had the choice of a job in naval intelligence or on Wall Street. &#x201C;My wife said I couldn&#x2019;t be a spy. She hates capitalism, but said to go to Wall Street,&#x201D; he told me recently. &#x201C;And then I...
110 2013-04-04 Not every critic makes waves when he says that he&#x2019;ll be writing fewer than 300 reviews in a year, but then not every critic is  Roger Ebert . &#xa;   &#xa;Mr. Ebert, the influential film writer for The Chicago Sun-Times,  wrote on his blog ...
111 2013-04-05 Members of the Renaissance Street Singers perform free concerts in Grand Central Terminal over the winter months.
112 2013-04-05 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. For Saturday, selections include the Drug Enforcement Administration complaining that it could not intercept messages between Apple devices ...
113 2013-04-05 Not since 1979 has such a small share of the population been working or actively looking for a job.
114 2013-04-05 Despite efforts by Twitter to check for fake accounts, the underground market is becoming more sophisticated....
115 2013-04-05 A new report on the firm’s collapse says Jon Corzine “knew, or should have known” that something was wrong....
116 2013-04-05 Bucks readers share their experiences in working overseas....
117 2013-04-05 You can make chicken stock from just the back....
118 2013-04-05 The dogs — a shih tzu mix that had a fractured skull and jaw, and a Chihuahua found in a skeletal state — are both recovering....
119 2013-04-05 The earnings yield on stocks is now higher than the investment yield on junk bonds. Either stocks are cheap or junk bonds are expensive. Or both....
120 2013-04-05 More liabilities, but more assets too....
121 2013-04-05 The question is whether the bondholders can get the bankruptcy court to force Stockton out of Calpers, perhaps as the price for continuing its Chapter 9 case....
122 2013-04-05 Hillary Rodham Clinton offered a glimpse on Friday of how she will fill her at least temporary role as a private advocate for women and girls in a speech at the Women in the World Conference....
123 2013-04-05 Male pattern baldness, the kind that starts at the top or back of the head, may indicate an increased risk for coronary heart disease, according to a new analysis....
124 2013-04-05 The family of Ram and Mukesh Singh and lawyers for the accused push to get case moved from Delhi....
125 2013-04-05 Austerity USA....
126 2013-04-05 “Antarctic time” can stretch out like taffy when you are stuck in a storm that hits right as you try to leave. But even when the hours pass their slowest, one can’t help but think how they will miss the place and its pace....
127 2013-04-05 Political news from today’s Times, plus a look at what’s happening in Washington....
128 2013-04-05 Matt Bettencourt and Peter Tomasulo shot five-under par 67s to earn the surprising lead after the first round of the Texas Open in San Antonio.
129 2013-04-05 The answer is, in part, a blend of geography and old friends. It is also about how much local interest is generated by the oddity of elite level tennis being played in an area best known in the sports world for the electric blue shade of Boise State’s football field.

When the teams held a one-hour open workout for fans Wednesday afternoon, at least 250 people lined up before the doors opened, some of them carrying their own rackets. They took pictures of the mammoth silver and wood Davis Cup trophy, which is making a rare appearance at a nonfinal tie. The workout was the first story on the local evening news. Gov. C. L. Otter attended a dinner honoring the two teams, held in a skybox overlooking the football stadium.

Boise is known for outdoor sports like hiking and biking, but according to the U.S.T.A., it has one of the highest participation rates per capita for U.S.T.A. leagues and tournaments. There are 4,500 members of the U.S.T.A. in Idaho, and 6,000 played in U.S.T.A. leagues, meaning many people played in more than one league.

Heather Rice attended the open practice with her family, and she said everybody she and her husband, Ben, played tennis with planned to attend the Davis Cup matches.

“The No. 1 player in the world?” she said. “This opportunity in Boise is incredible.”

Greg Patton, the coach of the Boise State tennis team, said: “It’s so cool. It’s like Jesus and the Virgin Mary are coming here for a concert and they’re bringing the Beatles with them.”

Patton, who said his job is to be something of a tennis pied piper, came to Boise State from U.C.-Irvine in 1993, left in 1998 and returned in 2003. As a coach with the national team, he worked with the United States team captain Jim Courier when he was a junior player, and has known the doubles team of Bob and Mike Bryan since they were children and the top-ranked American Sam Querrey since he was a teenager.

Patton said he spent the last 10 years dreaming and scheming to get Davis Cup here. He said he spent the last few weeks begging people to buy tickets — about 8,000 have been sold for each of the three days for an arena that seats 11,000.

“When people see tennis at this level, it’s going to light a fire, they’re going to go crazy,” Patton said. “It helps me with my dream; one day my dream is to play in a football stadium in front of 30,000 people.”

That works fine for the U.S.T.A., which, Ryan said, considers Davis Cup locations a marketing tool, designed to bring top-tier tennis to less traditional strongholds that have little chance of hosting an ATP World Tour event.

When Ryan is charged with finding a spot for a Davis Cup tie, he must consider the requests of the team for certain conditions and the availability of arenas that, in many major cities at this time of year, might already been booked with N.B.A. and N.H.L. games, ice skating shows and rock concerts. He said Boise and Tucson emerged as the strongest candidates for this event. But even Patton might not have been able to persuade anyone to put the Davis Cup here if not for a quirk of Boise’s geography.

The host team is allowed to select the conditions and surface where the matches will be played. American players prefer hardcourts because that is the surface on which they have their best results. (The court installed in the Boise State basketball arena for this event is a more muted shade of blue than the one on the football field across the parking lot.) But for this matchup, Courier’s team also wanted to play at altitude.

The effect of altitude on tennis is straightforward: the thinner, drier air at higher altitudes offers less resistance, allowing the ball to travel faster. That is a particular boon for players who already have big serves, like the United States singles players John Isner, who at 6 feet 9 inches has been known to serve at more than 140 miles per hour, and the 6-6 Querrey. Their biggest obstacle in leading to their team to the semifinals is Djokovic, who may return serve better than any other player in the game.

Isner will play Djokovic in the first match Friday, with Querrey to follow against Viktor Troicki. Querrey will play Djokovic in the first singles match Sunday. Boise is in the foothills but still sits about 2,700 feet above sea level. That does not seem like a big deal, especially since the teams have been in Boise since Saturday. But during a news conference Thursday, Djokovic repeatedly brought up the altitude and said that this would be the first time he played a match this far above sea level.

“It makes a difference, you know,” Djokovic said. “You have to put I think an extra effort in the adjustment on the court. You have to try to serve well. It’s tough to control. You can’t expect maybe too many long points because the ball travels through the air much faster than in normal conditions.”

That suggests that what Djokovic learned about Boise might have already given the United States a psychological edge — accomplishing more than Courier, Ryan or Patton might have hoped.
130 2013-04-05 Dodging soldiers on the mountain and ramming through road barricades part of the fun, foreign skiers say....
131 2013-04-05 The Moroccan woman at the center of former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s sex-for-hire trial accused investigators on Thursday of waging psychological warfare against her and manipulating her testimony during interrogations. In a protest outside a Milan court, the woman, Karima el-Mahroug, 21, better known as Ruby, read out a statement denying that she was a prostitute, insisting that she had never had sex with Mr. Berlusconi and demanding that the court hear her side of the story. She denounced what she called “psychological torture” directed at her by people pretending to help her and also accused the news media of defaming her. Mr. Berlusconi, 76, is accused of having paid for sex with Ms. Mahroug, above, while she was a teenager during his infamous “bunga bunga” parties at his villa near Milan, and then trying to cover it up. Both deny sexual contact.
132 2013-04-05 A murder suspect fired at an officer inside police headquarters in Jackson, and both the officer and the suspect were found shot to death, the police said Thursday night. Chief Rebecca Coleman said the suspect was being interviewed when the shooting took place. She said shots were heard, and when other officers entered the room, they found both the officer and suspect dead. The suspect’s name was not released, but the officer was identified as Eric Smith, a homicide detective. Chokwe Lumumba, a city councilman, was in police headquarters with the mayor and said the suspect shot Detective Smith. He did not know how the suspect ended up dead. “I understand there may have been more than one police officer in the room,” Mr. Lumumba said.
133 2013-04-05 Without getting into the merits of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s view that Roe v. Wade was right on the law but “it moved too far, too fast,” it is wrong as the historical precedent for the Supreme Court to delay deciding the same-sex marriage issue.

The relevant precedent is Loving v. Virginia, which in 1967 declared the prohibitions on interracial marriage to be unconstitutional. At that time 16 states banned such marriages. Many feared cataclysmic results from Loving, but nothing of consequence happened — politically or socially. Loving, unlike Roe, never became a litmus test for elected officials or incited people to violence.

It will not be “too far, too fast” when the Supreme Court does the right thing and gives same-sex couples their constitutional right to marry — now.

The writer was one of the lawyers for the Lovings in their Supreme Court case.

Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg has correctly criticized the 1973 decision in Roe v. Wade overriding abortion laws throughout the nation. During her 1993 confirmation hearing, Justice Ginsburg quoted the legendary Justice Benjamin N. Cardozo: “Justice is not to be taken by storm. She is to be wooed by slow advances.”

Changes in the law should emerge from political struggles that accommodate Solomonic compromise, in contrast to the winner-take-all nature of judicial decrees. In 1967, Ronald Reagan, as governor of California, signed the Therapeutic Abortion Act, which legalized abortion when pregnancy would gravely impair the mother’s physical or mental health, and in cases of rape or incest. The political process was open to the full spectrum of abortion viewpoints. Annual abortions in California climbed from 518 to 100,000 during Mr. Reagan’s term.

The Roe edict gratuitously inflamed the politics of abortion, in contrast to the European experience in dismantling abortion restrictions through the electoral process. The right thing at the wrong time or in the wrong way is the wrong thing.
134 2013-04-05 The writer, a professor  of veterinary medicine at the University of Georgia and a member of its Center for Food Safety, is an adviser to the U.S. Farmers and Ranchers Alliance.

Secrecy is the hallmark of industrialized animal agriculture and the companies and politicians who promote it and benefit from it. Information on antibiotics given to animals to promote rapid growth and to try to control the diseases that inevitably result from the brutal, cruel and filthy conditions these animals are forced to endure on factory farms is not openly documented.

The drumbeat of anti-whistleblower or ag-gag bills and laws that are spreading from state to state seek to criminalize undercover investigations of factory farms. These undercover videos have resulted in food recalls, closing of facilities, and criminal charges and punishments for workers abusing animals.

Rather than correcting the abuses, industrialized animal agriculture — with the support of its Congressional lackeys — feverishly works to stop the exposure.

Preventing the flow of information and trampling on First Amendment rights should not be an option. Consumers need to consider the ethics and consequences of their food choices. Should living creatures be brutalized for our taste buds? Are we willing to risk the loss of protective antibiotics because we don’t want to learn how meat is produced?

Three March 28 articles highlight a troubling trend at the intersection of our country’s agriculture and health care.

David A. Kessler reports that 80 percent of antibiotic sales go to livestock, mainly for promoting animal growth rather than for medical treatment. Wholesale use of antibiotics accelerates the emergence of resistant bacteria that can enter our food supply.

In fact, a recent finding, described in “Study Shows Bacteria Moves From Animals to Humans,” provides evidence that farm animals can transmit antibiotic-resistant bacteria to humans.

Treating healthy animals with antibiotics is even more concerning since not all bacteria are harmful. A growing body of research indicates that the microbial communities within our bodies are important for our health.

As one example, differences in intestinal bacteria affect weight gain and loss in mice and humans, as reported in “Bacteria in the Intestines May Help Tip the Bathroom Scale, Studies Show.”

Developing new antibiotics is essential. So is developing new practices for tracking and reducing use. Without both, the health of our livestock and ourselves is at risk.

The writer is a Ph.D. candidate in chemistry at Stanford University.
135 2013-04-05 Three major banks — Barclays, UBS and the Royal Bank of Scotland — were fined a total of $2.5 billion by authorities in Britain and the United States. It appeared to be a fine case of international regulatory cooperation.

But now that cooperation is breaking down. In the United States, Gary Gensler, the chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the man whose determination to do something helped to expose criminal behavior that evidently did not seem all that outrageous to some others, is pushing to get rid of Libor entirely. He argues that it no longer really exists, assuming it ever did, and wants to find a new benchmark for floating interest rate contracts.

But Britain and the European Commission appear to be determined to save Libor. This week new governance rules took effect in Britain, and the European Commission is moving in the same direction. The new rules call for better governance, with efforts made to assure there is no cheating by traders.

Some banks, understandably, would just as soon get out of a business that has sullied reputations and cost billions. Some have tried to resign from the panels that determine Libor and its cousin, Euribor, a similar but less widely used system of base rates. But both European and British regulators view the existence of the benchmarks as critical and have warned banks not to leave.

“Interbank interest rate benchmarks are of systemic importance,” said Michel Barnier, the European commissioner in charge of markets. He said European legislation would force banks to submit rates.

To Mr. Gensler, the Europeans are moving in the wrong direction. “We have seen a significant amount of publicly available market data that raises questions about the integrity of Libor today,” he said in a speech last month. He said that there was very little unsecured interbank trading going on, and that even when other interest rates fluctuated widely — rates that include credit-default swaps on the very same banks — each bank tended to submit the same rates day after day.

He noted that a task force of the International Organization of Securities Commissions recommended earlier this year that “a benchmark should as a matter of priority be anchored by observable transactions entered into at arm’s length between buyers and sellers in order for it to function as a credible indicator of prices, rates or index values,” adding, “I agree with this.”

To put it mildly, there is no reason to think the interbank lending market fits that bill now, and there are reasons to think it will be even less true in the future. Mr. Gensler said some banks believed the new Basel capital rules regarding liquidity would make it prohibitively expensive for one bank to lend to another for more than 30 days at a time. If so, there will be no such lending.

Mr. Gensler would like to develop an alternative and points to two options. One would essentially be dependent on the federal funds rate — the rate at which banks lend reserves to one another. The other would be based on rates charged on secured loans. In each case these are real markets, at least in dollar-based transactions. He would like to phase in one of them as a replacement for Libor.

Whether such a tactic could work is not clear. There are a lot of contracts in existence based on Libor, and changing them by legal fiat might not pass judicial muster. And Mr. Gensler’s suggested way of doing that raises its own questions. Essentially, he would allow derivatives based on Libor to keep trading for a couple of years while derivatives based on the new interest rates also traded, and in that way establish relationships between the two rates. So if Libor was, on average, 30 basis points above a new rate, then a Libor contract calling for interest payments of 200 basis points over Libor would be converted into a contract calling for paying 230 basis points more than the new rate.

A major problem with that is that to establish the relationship between the two rates depends on treating the Libor rates as if they are real. The fact they are not is the major problem Mr. Gensler sees in the current system.

The new British rules, as proposed, called for auditors to certify bank Libor policies every year, and allowed private lawsuits by persons or institutions who believed they had been harmed by manipulative and inaccurate Libor submissions. But banks complained that regular audits might cost so much that the requirement would “adversely affect the incentives for firms to participate in the benchmark.”

When the final rules came out last week, they made a couple of important changes. Audits may be less frequent than every year. And private lawsuits would be prohibited in Britain.

Whether such suits can proceed in the United States is unclear.

A federal judge in New York has allowed some claims of commodity price manipulation to proceed, although she rejected others because reports of possible problems in the Libor market, starting in 2007, meant that the statute of limitations had expired.

It is not clear whether statute of limitations issues could derail a suit filed by Freddie Mac, the government-owned mortgage company, against the banks that set Libor and the British Bankers Association, which administered it. Freddie argued that it had entered into many contracts under which it received payments based on Libor. If the banks depressed those rates by submitting artificially low rates, as some have admitted, Freddie was harmed. It would be interesting if the courts ruled that because everyone should have known the market was fixed, those who fixed it are not liable.

There seems to be no way to turn Libor into a legitimate rate, given the way market perceptions of banks have changed. So any bank that submits rates that do not accurately reflect what it would have to pay may be subject to future legal action in the United States. But any bank that raises the rates it submits could raise doubts about its own creditworthiness. And the Europeans plan to make banks continue to submit rates.

Although it is not a case that any bank has made publicly, it could be argued that the spirit of Libor was preserved by the banks that lied. It was originally intended as a virtually risk-free private sector interest rate.

An accurate Libor, from 2007 on, would have reflected the banks’ poorer credit, and would therefore no longer be such a risk-free rate. A borrower paying 100 basis points over Libor would wind up paying a premium over a real risk-free rate that was much larger than it had agreed to pay. Overcharging borrowers would not have helped the economy recover from the Great Recession.

Libor has clearly become ridiculous. But long before that happened, it became ubiquitous. Europe wants to preserve the latter, even if it does leave the former in place indefinitely. A better course would be to find a rate whose meaning will not change over time, and base future contracts on it. A rate based on secured loans makes the most sense.
136 2013-04-05 “I totally respect their point of view,” Mr. Portman said of his opponents. “I held it until not too long ago.”

One impact of Mr. Portman’s change of heart has been to fuel a movement seeking the repeal of a constitutional amendment in Ohio that bans same-sex marriage, according to the group leading the effort, FreedomOhio.

Requests to download petitions from the group’s Web site more than doubled overnight, to 50 a day, after Mr. Portman’s announcement, said Ian James, a co-founder of FreedomOhio. “His endorsement of freedom to marry, I would submit, has done more than any politician other than Barack Obama,” Mr. James said.

He said volunteers would easily gather the 385,000 signatures needed to qualify for the state ballot this November, but the group might delay a vote until 2014 to raise money in anticipation of a fierce public fight.

On the other side, Phil Burress, president of Citizens for Community Values, said that he would now oppose Mr. Portman’s re-election “tooth and nail,” and that without the support of the 40 percent of evangelical voters in the Republican base, Mr. Portman, who will be a candidate again in 2016, “cannot win, he will not win.”

Mr. Burress, a longtime supporter of Mr. Portman, said the senator called him the night before he went public on March 15 and said, “I have some bad news.”

“I thought he was talking father to father with me,” said Mr. Burress, who supports discredited therapies aimed at changing sexual orientation. “I spent four and a half years on the board of an organization that helped people walk away from homosexuality. It is not innate; you’re not born that way.”

“That devastated me, that he embraced his son’s behavior.”

In a column in The Columbus Dispatch announcing his change of view, Mr. Portman wrote of learning from his son Will, then a college freshman, that he is gay. “He said he’d known for some time, and that his sexual orientation wasn’t something he chose; it was simply a part of who he is,” Mr. Portman wrote.

He added, “I believe all of our sons and daughters ought to have the same opportunity to experience the joy and stability of marriage.”

The Republican establishment in the state stands behind Mr. Portman, and its leaders said that if he runs for a second term in three years, most voters will judge him on his support for lower taxes and spending, his longtime issues.

“Should Rob Portman choose to run in 2016, he will have the full-throated support of the Ohio Republican Party,” said Matt Borges, its executive director. He said the senator’s willingness to stand apart from other elected Republicans, “knowing it was potentially at his political peril,” was commendable. “If we’re not supporting our own children, what are we doing?”

Mr. Portman became a slightly less lonely figure in his party on Tuesday when a second Republican senator, Mark Kirk of Illinois, announced his support of same-sex marriage. Among Democratic senators, nearly 50 have rushed to come out in favor.

Ohioans, including Ohio Republicans, are rapidly shifting on gay marriage, just as elsewhere. In a recent poll, 42 percent of Republicans in the state favored repealing the state’s ban to allow same-sex marriages.

The poll, conducted for The Columbus Dispatch last month (before Mr. Portman’s announcement, but released after it) found that 54 percent of all Ohioans would repeal the ban, a significant shift since it was passed in a statewide referendum in 2004 with 62 percent of voters.

Much of the change is driven by a generational shift: 73 percent of Ohioans under 35 favor same-sex marriage.

Along the parade route, Sarah Renz, a school administrator who votes Republican, said she supported Mr. Portman. “You have to respect change, and if times change, people have to change with them.”

Tiffani Jackson, a Democrat, echoed a number of others both approving and disapproving who were cynical about the senator’s change of heart, noting that he was against same-sex marriage until it hit close to home.

“I think it’s sad it took his son being gay for him to flip-flop,” she said.

Lisa Hall, a homemaker, wished he had not changed his position. “I just don’t agree with all that,” she said of same-sex marriage. “It’s changing families. The whole family loses stability.”

Jeanne and Bob Ward, whose 3-year-old grandson, Garrett, sat between them in a Reds cap, found nothing wrong with changing one’s views because of a gay friend or family member.

Their daughter, Shannon, who is Garrett’s mother, had told them she is a lesbian a couple of years ago. She and her partner own a home north of Cincinnati and want the legal protections of marriage for Garrett’s sake, Mrs. Ward said, adding, “We support gay marriage.”

She and her husband did not always feel that way. They voted for Ohio’s ban nine years ago, before their daughter came out.

“We’re 66 years old, and those views are instilled in you from little on,” Mrs. Ward said. “As we get rid of this older generation — our generation — they’re going to wonder why it was ever an issue.”
137 2013-04-05 “The Fed officials certainly have been going out of their way to point out that they’re staying the course and sticking with their program, which has probably been reassuring for markets,” said Peter Jankovskis, co-chief investment officer at OakBrook Investments in Lisle, Ill.

An unexpected jump in weekly jobless claims to a four-month high raised questions about the labor market’s recovery a day ahead of the Labor Department’s widely watched monthly jobs report. A report on Wednesday showed that in March United States companies hired at the slowest rate in five months.

The Dow Jones industrial average was up 55.76 points, or 0.38 percent, at 14,606.11. The S.& P. 500 index gained 6.29 points, or 0.40 percent, to 1,559.98. The Nasdaq composite index was up 6.38 points, or 0.20 percent, at 3,224.98.

Among the latest comments from Fed officials, Dennis P. Lockhart, president of the Atlanta Fed, suggested the program to stimulate the economy would continue for at least a few more months. Charles Evans, head of the Chicago Fed, said rates could stay at rock bottom until the unemployment rate fell to 5.5 percent. The rate was 7.7 percent in February.

The European Central Bank president, Mario Draghi, opened the door to an interest rate cut as soon as next month.

The retailer Best Buy rose 16.1 percent, to $25.13, after saying it would offer a 30 percent discount on Apple iPad 3 tablets in the United States.

Shares of Facebook rose 3.1 percent, to $27.07, after the company introduced applications that let users display versions of their Facebook newsfeed and messages on the home screen of a wide range of devices based on Google’s Android system.

Analysts said Facebook’s move could divert users from Google’s services. Its shares fell 1.4 percent, to $795.07.

The report about jobless claims was the latest bit of disappointing economic news. Claims jumped to 385,000 in the latest week, confounding expectations that claims would drop by 7,000, to 350,000.

Friday’s labor report was expected to show 200,000 jobs were created last month, according to a Reuters survey. The unemployment rate was expected to remain at 7.7 percent.

Earnings forecasts have declined heading into first-quarter reports, which are set to begin next week with Alcoa. S.& P. 500 earnings are expected to rise just 1.6 percent from a year ago, according to Thomson Reuters data, down from a Jan. 1 growth forecast of 4.3 percent.

If a majority of results beats expectations, as has been the trend, “There’s a good chance we could see the markets resume their upward trend,” said Mr. Jankovskis.
138 2013-04-05 Q. What else is unusual about your culture?

A. I like to tell employees that you can give an answer or you can give a solution. A lot of people might think they’re doing a job by giving an answer. But I really don’t believe that simply giving an answer is doing your job, because if the answer doesn’t help move something forward or help the business, then what good was that answer?

If we’re back-ordered on a product and it’s not due in for a while, then just telling somebody that is not a solution. It’s just an answer. You haven’t completed the job until you’ve helped the person move forward whatever it is they’re doing.

We also tell people that we want issues like that escalated. Within sales, the escalation policy is that if a customer or sales rep calls and they want something, then we want to try to find a way to do it. And if we can’t, we escalate it to their superior and it goes up the chain to a handful of us.

Out of over 9,000 employees, there are just a handful of people we want to have the authority to give a negative response to a rep or a customer’s request.  Plus, we want to know about the issues and not filter the problems out.

I’m happy to take these calls, and I do take a lot of them. I find sometimes that there’s something we aren’t doing but should consider. It might be a customer need that nobody in our industry is meeting, including us. So when possibly there’s something we aren’t doing, an unmet need, we’ll really consider changing our policy or changing something in the company. And if a competitor is doing something we aren’t, then we need to be able to do it, too. And even if we’re not going to do it, I think people appreciate getting an answer from somebody at a high level about why.

Or maybe it’s a good idea that we’re going to work on in the future. I think people appreciate an explanation about why we can’t meet their request more than just getting told no.

Q. How do people know which issues are worthy of being escalated?

A. We usually frame it in the context of obtaining business with a sense of urgency. We don’t want people walking away from an order or walking away from helping their customers. If the customer needs something, how can we give it to them?

Q. The company has 9,000 employees, but how big was it when you joined?

A. I joined full time 26 years ago, and I’m sure we had fewer than 1,000 employees.

Q. Are there things you do across the company to keep it feeling small, even as you grow?

A. One of the things we do is create smaller divisions. This actually works pretty well.  We take areas that we think are starting to get too large. So there may be part of a larger division that is not getting a lot of attention. So we break it off and give it its own identity. We try to work in business units that are probably smaller than a lot of other companies, and that’s why we have 21 product divisions and they’re fairly autonomous. We’ll theoretically add a bunch more as we grow. I think that helps.

Q. Is there a rough number of employees you keep in mind as the ideal size for a division — that it shouldn’t be more than X number of employees?

A. No. We do a lot based on gut feel about the bandwidth of the supervisor or manager of each division. Are they able to give enough attention to everything in the division they’re running?

A. I say you have to kiss a lot of frogs.

Q. Can you explain that?

A. It means that sometimes we think something is going to be a dead end, but you just never know. Maybe the frog is going to turn out to be the prince. So we might be in a meeting and somebody will say, “What do you think about this?”  And my answer will be, “You’ve got to kiss a lot of frogs.”

If I didn’t use that expression, I’d probably say that it’s a long shot, but who knows? I don’t want people to feel bad for trying something that doesn’t work out. So that’s my way of saying that not everything is going to work out.
139 2013-04-05 Mr. Kuroda emphasized the break with history, repeatedly pointing to a graph showing the planned jump in the country’s money supply as he answered reporters’ questions on the bank’s new policies.

“Incremental steps of the kind we’ve seen so far weren’t going to get us out of deflation,” Mr. Kuroda said. “I’m certain we have now adapted all policies we can think of to meet the 2 percent price target,” he said.

And if prices do not rise as expected, he said he “would not hesitate” to step up the bank’s easing program. Mr. Kuroda faulted his predecessors for fearing the possibility of igniting runaway inflation and for being too ready to pull back at the first sign of higher inflation.

Japanese stocks have soared in recent months on anticipation of a reversal in monetary policy under Mr. Abe. It was fanned by recent assurances from Mr. Kuroda that he would do “whatever it takes” to defeat deflation.

But in recent days, the stock market had retreated as investors wondered whether Mr. Kuroda would make good on his promises.

Shortly after the bank’s announcement, the benchmark Nikkei 225 index jumped from negative territory to end the day 2.2 percent higher. The yen weakened to 96.13 yen per dollar in Tokyo from about 93 yen before the announcement.

“Kuroda did it,” Masaaki Kanno, economist at JPMorgan Securities Japan, said in a note to clients. “This is a historical change in the B.O.J.’s policy.”

Some economists were cautious, though. The central bank’s giant purchases of government debt could eventually be seen by investors as enabling runaway public spending, quashing confidence that Japan would ever pare its already sky-high public debt. They also said it could also drive up long-term interest rates.

If Japan recklessly pursued aggressive monetary and fiscal policies, “the long-term interest rate could rise and fiscal collapse would ensue,” said Ryutaro Kono, an economist at BNP Paribas.

Others argue that rising prices, once stoked, can be hard to control, a fear related to memories of Japan’s bubble economy of the 1980s and the subsequent painful collapse.

Some experts also question whether monetary policy alone can end deflation in Japan. The country has other deflationary pressures like an aging and shrinking population and cumbersome regulations that make the economy inefficient. They say that lending has not increased at a high enough rate despite the easy money already available because businesses and consumers see little potential for growth.

Mr. Kuroda said that such risks or doubts should not hold the bank back from fighting deflation.

“We have debated the side effects but we are currently not concerned that long-term interest rates might spike, or conversely, that there would be an asset bubble,” Mr. Kuroda said. “That risks exist should not hold us back from pursuing much-needed monetary easing. We will keep in mind those risks, but push ahead,” he said.

He also said that once Japan had fought off deflation and restarted its economy, lending would surely follow, spurring more economic growth in a virtuous cycle. “We are already seeing an improvement in sentiment among consumers and companies,” he said. “As the economy expands, and prices rise, lending will also grow.”

In a statement detailing the new measures, the bank said it would buy longer-term government bonds, lengthening the average maturity of its holdings to seven years from three years and expanding Japan’s monetary base to 270 trillion yen by March 2015.

Under that plan, the bank will buy about 7 trillion yen in bonds each month, equivalent to over 1 percent of its gross domestic product, which is almost twice the bond purchases of the United States Federal Reserve Bank.

The policies are part of a new asset purchase framework that focuses on the monetary base instead of the overnight interest rate. That rate has remained close to zero for years with little effect on increasing prices or expanding the economy. The bank will also consolidate all its purchases in a single operation in an effort to improve transparency of the bank’s purchases.

Mr. Kuroda said that the bank would suspend, for now, a long-standing rule that limits its bond holdings to the amount of money in circulation. The new governor pointed out that limit had already been surpassed anyway.

Mr. Kuroda acknowledged that Japan’s new monetary push was weakening the yen, which will bolster Japan’s exporters at the expense of overseas rivals. A weak yen has long been a sticking point between Tokyo and its trading partners. But he declined to comment further, saying currencies were beyond his mandate as central bank governor.

“The bold monetary easing steps go beyond expectations,” said Akira Amari, the economic minister. “The Bank of Japan is finally steering Japan toward rising prices.”
140 2013-04-05 SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea’s defense chief said Thursday that North Korea had moved to its east coast a missile with a “considerable” range, but that the weapon was not capable of reaching the United States. The disclosure came as the North’s military warned that it was ready to strike American military forces with “cutting-edge smaller, lighter and diversified nuclear strike means.”

North Korea has been issuing a blistering series of similar threats in recent weeks, citing as targets the American military installations in the Pacific islands of Hawaii and Guam, as well as the United States mainland.

In its latest threat on Thursday, it did not name targets but said its military was authorized to “take powerful, practical military counteractions” against the threats from B-2 bombers from the United States, B-52 bombers from Guam and F-22 jet fighters from American bases in Japan that have recently run missions over the Korean Peninsula during joint military exercises with South Korea.

“The moment of explosion is approaching fast,” the general staff of the North Korean People’s Army said in a statement carried by the North’s official Korean Central News Agency. “The U.S. had better ponder over the prevailing grave situation.”

Most analysts do not believe that North Korea has a missile powerful enough to deliver a nuclear warhead to the United States mainland or that it is reckless enough to strike the American military in the Pacific. Still, with the North’s bellicose language showing no signs of letting up, the United States said Wednesday that it was speeding the deployment of an advanced missile defense system to Guam in the next few weeks, two years ahead of schedule, in what the Pentagon said was a “precautionary move” to protect American naval and air forces from the threat of a North Korean missile attack.

Testifying before a parliamentary hearing, Defense Minister Kim Kwan-jin of South Korea said the missile North Korea had moved to the east coast, possibly “for demonstration or for training,” appeared not to be a KN-08, which analysts say is the closest thing North Korea has to an intercontinental ballistic missile, though its exact range is not known. The new missile was unveiled during a military parade in the North Korean capital, Pyongyang, in April last year.
141 2013-04-05 In an article in The Daily Telegraph, published before he went to Scotland, Mr. Cameron said the global nuclear threat had “if anything, increased” since Britain built a nuclear deterrent more than 60 years ago during the cold war.

“I know there are some people who disagree with our nuclear deterrent and don’t want us to renew it,” Mr. Cameron said. “There are those who say that we don’t need it anymore, because the cold war has ended. There are those who say we can’t afford Trident anymore, so we either need to find a viable cheaper option, or rely on the United States to protect us.”

But “the nuclear threat has not gone away,” he added. “In terms of uncertainty and potential risk it has, if anything, increased.”

With Iran pursuing nuclear ambitions and North Korea testing nuclear devices and missiles, Mr. Cameron said, “does anyone seriously argue that it would be wise for Britain, faced with this evolving threat today, to surrender our deterrent?”

He described the North Korean government as “highly unpredictable and aggressive.”

In his remarks to defense industry workers in Scotland, Mr. Cameron said, “Being part of the U.K. opens doors for the Scottish defense industry around the globe.”

“Scotland counts for more on the world stage because it is part of the United Kingdom, and Scottish defense jobs are more secure as part of the United Kingdom,” he said. “The business community tell me that they want certainty. And I want to offer that certainty by saying that I remain absolutely committed to the defense of the United Kingdom and to the future of defense jobs in Scotland.”

Angus Robertson, the defense spokesman of the Scottish National Party, said the prime minister’s promises to support the defense industry in Scotland represented “just the same old, same old” pledges from British governments that had left Scotland at an economic disadvantage.

“It just shows that when it comes to defense, Westminster isn’t working for Scotland,” Mr. Robertson said, referring to the seat of British power in London, “and an independent Scottish Parliament would take far better defense decisions for Scotland.”
142 2013-04-05 It&#x2019;s no longer just a dream in the hearts of  &#x201C;Arrested Development&#x201D;  fans, a wild scheme in the mind of the series creator Mitchell Hurwitz or a question for its cast members to answer in every interview they have given since...
143 2013-04-05 MEXICO CITY &#x2014; When Banco Santander held the $4.13 billion public stock offering of its Mexico subsidiary here last September, a mariachi band and Mexican folk dancers set the festive mood for a media breakfast in a sun-filled dining room at...
144 2013-04-05 Mutual Funds in the First Quarter
145 2013-04-06 Credit: Adam Dean for The New York Times
146 2013-04-06 Juan Monáco defeated Gilles Simon, 7-6 (2), 6-2, 6-4, to give host Argentina a 1-1 tie with France after the first two singles matches in the Davis Cup quarterfinals. Jo-Wilfried Tsonga won the first singles, defeating Carlos Berlocq, 4-6, 6-2, 6-3, 5-7, 6-2.

In Astana, Kazakhstan, the Czech Republic led the hosts, 2-0, after the first day’s singles.
147 2013-04-06 Mr. Remini kept pressing. When Mr. Van Dusen came to see the Lyric Opera of Chicago with him — they both loved opera — Mr. Remini first took him to a fine French restaurant. The historian restated his case. The editor held his ground. Mozart eventually mediated.

“We were sitting there in the middle of ‘The Marriage of Figaro’ and he turned to me and he said, ‘You can have two volumes,’ and that was the beginning of it,” Mr. Remini recalled. “Then, when the presidential years grew to be more than another volume, I needed a third volume. I took him to see ‘Tristan und Isolde’ — and it worked!”

The three volumes, totaling 1,600 meticulously researched pages, were published in 1977, 1981 and 1984. The final volume won a National Book Award.

Mr. Remini’s Jackson was imperfect but often heroic, a passionate and outsize man on horseback whose victory in the Battle of New Orleans in the War of 1812 helped make him a symbol of new American strength and independence, and of fading affection for England culture. As president, Jackson was an exceedingly popular outsider with little patience for the trappings of Washington. He clashed frequently with Congress and left a legacy of violence against and displacement of American Indians.

At a time when historians were emphasizing broad political, intellectual and cultural shifts — a trend nurtured by Arthur Schlesinger Jr.’s landmark “Age of Jackson,” published in 1945 — Mr. Remini stayed close to the individual. He held firm that Jackson was a defender of the common man, however limited the president’s concept of common might have been, even as some historians began focusing on Jackson’s oppressive treatment of Indians, slaves and women.

“He has mastered in all their complex detail the many issues and events of Jackson’s private and public life, but in doing so he has come to see the world too much from Jackson’s point of view,” Mr. Ward wrote in the 1981 Times review, in which he assessed the second volume of the trilogy.

Mr. Remini suggested that some historians too often blamed Jackson for his transgressions instead of allowing him to be a creature of his place and time.

Jon Meacham, who won the 2009 Pulitzer Prize for “American Lion: Andrew Jackson in the White House,” said of Mr. Remini in an interview, “He was practicing a kind of narrative historical biographical craft at exactly the moment when most of the academy was moving toward intellectual and group-driven history.”

Robert Vincent Remini was born on July 17, 1921, in the Bronx. He was the first in his family to go to college, and he graduated from Fordham University before serving in the Navy during World War II. He received his doctorate in history at Columbia and later taught there and at Fordham before taking a job at the University of Illinois, Chicago, in 1965. He became the first chairman of the history department.

Survivors include two daughters, Elizabeth Nielson and Joan Costello; a son, Robert; and three grandchildren. His wife of 63 years, the former Ruth Kuhner, died in 2012.

Mr. Remini was a beloved teacher, and many of his students became history professors themselves. Mr. Meacham, who grew up in Tennessee, Jackson’s adopted home, read Mr. Remini’s trilogy while he was in high school. Decades later, when Mr. Meacham was working on his own Jackson biography, Mr. Remini read the manuscript. (The men also dined at the Hay-Adams hotel in Washington, just across from the statue of Jackson on horseback in Lafayette Square.)

“He was the kind of historian who never believed that his interpretation was the last word,” Mr. Meacham said. He added, “You cannot write about Jackson without standing on Remini’s shoulders.”
148 2013-04-06 Wilson is still recovering from an elbow operation that ended his season after two innings last year, so the task was handled by six key members from last year’s roster.

“This is what we play for,” Bochy said before the game. “This is when you realize you’re world champs.”

The Giants sold out their 166th consecutive regular-season home game, dating to Oct. 1, 2010. It is the second-longest streak in the major leagues, behind Boston’s 793, which started on May 15, 2003, and is in danger of ending next week.

AT&T Park is not the only thing that looks the same. Twenty-one of the 25 players on the Giants’ opening day roster were with the team last season — including the re-signed free agents Angel Pagan, Marco Scutaro and Jeremy Affeldt — and the team recently extended the contracts of Bochy and General Manager Brian Sabean through 2016.

“We all know each other really well, and we also know how it feels to win a World Series,” shortstop Brandon Crawford said. “Now we want to do it again. Getting those guys back is huge for us.”

Zito’s seven shutout innings were typical for the Giants. San Francisco starters have not allowed an earned run this season, a span of 26 innings. It was a fitting follow-up to Zito’s previous game against St. Louis, on Oct. 19, when, with the Giants trailing in the N.L.C.S. by 3-1, he shut out the Cardinals into the eighth inning in a 5-0 victory. It began a run of seven straight wins, culminating with the World Series clincher in Detroit.

Friday’s game was also the team’s 15th consecutive win in a Zito start, including the postseason, a stretch in which he is 10-0 with a 3.18 earned run average.

“I wish I could say that I’ve been locked in for 15 games, but baseball is a grind,” Zito said. “Today was a battle. I was just trying to keep consistency with my pitches.”

The flag was carried into the ballpark by a fireboat from just up the Embarcadero. The firefighters handed it to a cadre of Giants fans, each representing a decade from the 1950s, when the team moved from New York, until the present. Along with Bochy, the six Giants — Pagan, Matt Cain, Tim Lincecum, Hunter Pence, Sergio Romo and Ryan Vogelsong — took it from there.

San Francisco’s batting order included three most valuable players in a row: Marco Scutaro (N.L.C.S.), Buster Posey (N.L. regular season) and Pablo Sandoval (World Series). Posey will be part of a weekend of ceremonies, receiving his award Saturday (along with his own giveaway bobblehead doll) before team members receive their championship rings Sunday.
149 2013-04-06 A visa program for skilled workers has hit its quota just days into the application period, United States Citizenship and Immigration Services said, prompting a lottery and signaling that companies feel confident enough to hire more foreign workers. The H-1B program has not reached its cap of 65,000 so fast since early 2008. A separate H-1B allocation for master’s and Ph.D. graduates from universities in the United States has also hit its quota of 20,000, the agency said.
150 2013-04-06 A police detective who was killed along with a murder suspect at police headquarters in Jackson was shot with his own gun, the authorities said Friday. Jeremy Powell, 23, seized the gun from Detective Eric Smith, 40, on Thursday while being questioned about a stabbing death, a Mississippi Bureau of Investigation spokesman said. Mr. Powell shot the officer four times before killing himself, the authorities said.
151 2013-04-06 She added, “This case has other aspects than pure legal aspects that have to be taken into consideration.”

The Rosenberg family became aware of the Matisse’s location last summer, when the Art Loss Register, an art-recovery company that had put the painting on its list of missing artworks, noticed that it was on loan to the Pompidou Center in Paris. The museum and the Rosenbergs have been negotiating quietly since.

Museum officials met twice with family representatives, first in Norway and then in New York. Marianne Rosenberg, a New York lawyer who is a granddaughter of Paul Rosenberg and took part in the second meeting, said a museum official offered to help resolve the matter by placing a plaque next to the Matisse, acknowledging that Paul Rosenberg had owned it. The family rejected the offer, she said.

A museum spokeswoman said she could not comment on the talks.

The Matisse was painted in 1937, the year Mr. Rosenberg bought it. According to documents gathered from Nazi files, as well as records kept by Mr. Rosenberg and his heirs, it was one of about 160 works that German soldiers were sent to seize from the Rosenberg Gallery’s vaults as part of a widespread confiscation of art owned by Jews.

“This is the most well-documented claim I have ever seen,” said Christopher A. Marinello, a lawyer and the director of the Art Loss Register.

By 1942, the painting was in the hands of a Paris collector, Paul Pétridès. In 1949, museum records show, it was in the possession of Galerie Bénézit of Paris, from which, museum officials said, Mr. Onstad bought it in either 1949 or 1950. Mr. Marinello said that a lawyer for the museum, Kyrre Eggen, informed the Rosenbergs that the museum was researching whether it was possible that Mr. Rosenberg, who returned to Europe after the war in an effort to recover his property, took part in a transaction involving the painting before its purchase by Mr. Onstad.

“Our family was deeply affected by the war,” she said, “and we do not make frivolous claims, and that assertion is frankly insulting.”

The museum said it had never tried to hide its ownership of the painting, which it has lent to several European museums.

Ms. Rosenberg said it was not surprising that her family had not discovered the Matisse earlier, given that it has been busy for decades trying to recover more than 400 items looted by the Nazis and scattered around the world.

“The onus is not on the claimant to have to go scooting around looking in every catalog and small museums hunting for their stolen art,” she said.

The Matisse is among the prized possessions of the arts center, which has two Picassos, two Matisses and works by Miró, Klee and several dozen other prominent Modernists that it refers to as its “core collection.”

The museum’s initial collection was largely the artwork given it by Henie and Mr. Onstad. Henie, who won gold medals in Olympics figure skating in 1928, 1932 and 1936 before becoming a Hollywood star, died in 1969. Mr. Onstad died in 1978.
152 2013-04-06 ST. LOUIS — On the final day of the Spring Nationals here last month, the Jacoby Open Swiss Teams were captured by Richard Schwartz of Aventura, Fla.; Allan Graves of St. Johnsbury, Vt.; Boye Brogeland and Espen Lindqvist from Norway; and Jon Baldursson and Thorlakur Jonsson from Iceland.

They defeated by nearly a match Jim Mahaffey of Winter Park, Fla.; Sam Lev of New York City; Tony Forrester from England; Piotr Gawrys from Poland; and Josef Piekarek and Alexander Smirnov from Germany. Third were Marcin Mazurkiewicz, Krzysztof Jassem, Pawel Jassem (father and son), Michal Nowosadzki and Piotr Tuszynski from Poland.

A drawback of published bridge deals is that readers can immediately see where all the cards lie, and this can influence their thought processes. Try to look only at the North and South hands. How would you plan the play in six spades after West led the diamond seven in answer to his partner’s lead-directing double?

In the bidding, two clubs was natural and game-forcing. Then Schwartz (North) judged well to bid three spades, knowing that aces are excellent cards for slam and that his partner would be nervous about going beyond game with at most one ace. Then, after two control-bids (cue-bids), Graves (South) used Roman Key Card Blackwood and jumped to six spades opposite the (zero-or-)three-key-card reply.

This is a complicated deal with lots of possibilities, too many to discuss fully here.

Graves could see three potential losers: the spade ace (unavoidable), one heart and one diamond. He was going to obtain one discard on dummy’s club ace, but had to find a parking place for the other red-suit loser.

The simplest line was to ruff a heart in the dummy. But declarer was not sure if he should ruff low or high. He also considered trying to set up a long club in the dummy, or finessing dummy’s heart ten, or executing a squeeze.
153 2013-04-06 The gender theorist Judith Butler has been assailed by critics as the academic world’s worst writer. But on Thursday night at the downtown performance space Dixon Place, she was celebrated as the “Girl From Ipanema.”

The occasion was a mix of book party and cabaret show called “Otherwise: Queer Scholarship Into Song.” Ann Pellegrini, an associate professor of performance and religious studies at New York University, sang that Antonio Carlos Jobim samba hit and then, impersonating Ms. Butler, deconstructed its lyrics.

“When she walks by, what does she ‘not see?’ ” Ms. Pellegrini asked, swaying her hips as the Pages, a two-piece band assembled for the evening, vamped behind her. The lyrics, she continued, reflect “the ocularcentrism of the Western episteme. She can never be the subject, she’s always the object.”

Queer theory, with its impenetrable jargon and radical utopian politics, may seem to have little in common with musical theater beyond an overlapping fan base. But at Thursday’s event, a dozen scholars and the performers invited to interpret their recently published books proved that even if it lacks a beat, you can still dance to it.

“It’s a really queer version of a book launch,” Kay Turner, the organizer and M.C., said at the start of the show. “Tonight we’re going to eat each other’s words and put them into song.”
154 2013-04-06 The innovative planes were grounded worldwide after a 787 made an emergency landing in Japan with a smoking battery just nine days after the fire in Boston.

Aviation analysts estimate that Boeing and several airline customers could lose hundreds of millions of dollars as a result of the grounding, and Boeing is pushing to get the planes back in the air. Investors are also optimistic. Boeing’s stock rose $1.22 to close at $86.17 on Friday, adding to a rally that began after the F.A.A. approved the testing plan last month.

Boeing said the plane flown in Friday’s test was awaiting delivery to LOT Polish Airlines. The jet left Paine Field in Everett, Wash., at 10:39 a.m. Pacific time with a crew of 11, including two representatives from the F.A.A. The airplane flew for 1 hour 49 minutes, landing back at the field at 12:28 p.m.

Boeing said the flight was meant to demonstrate that the new battery system would work as expected during normal and abnormal flight conditions, though it did not specify the range of conditions it tested.

It said that the test flight was uneventful and that it would deliver the data to the F.A.A. “in the coming days.”

The F.A.A. approved more than 20 types of tests to determine if the new battery system would virtually eliminate the risk of battery fires, as Boeing says it will.

Federal investigators have said that one cell short-circuited in the battery on the plane in Boston and that the short cascaded through the seven other cells, setting off the fire.

Boeing has said that its new battery system has better insulation around the eight cells and between the cells and the casing. It also has a gentler charger to minimize stress and a new titanium system to vent any smoke or heat out of the plane to keep the batteries from getting too hot.

The insulation, made of heat-resistant glass fibers, is supposed to keep a short in one cell from spreading to others. Boeing said the two batteries on each plane would be sealed inside steel boxes that would limit the amount of oxygen nearby to minimize any chance of fire.

Most of the tests have been conducted inside Boeing labs. Friday’s flight was the only one to test the performance of the new batteries in the air. Boeing recently flew two other flights to test other systems on the plane.

The batteries are used to start the planes and to provide power on the ground. Boeing has said that it needs only a single test flight since the batteries are not normally used in flight.

If the plan is approved, Boeing and the airlines will have to monitor the batteries closely for many months. The safety board has said Boeing grossly miscalculated the odds of hazards with the original battery system. It also now has to persuade travelers that the new system is safe.
155 2013-04-06 Among those cuts is a change in the way inflation is calculated for Social Security called a “chained” , which Republicans have supported in the past. Administration officials said the president would only accept such proposals now if Republicans were willing to support increased revenues.

The reaction from both sides also demonstrates how little space there is in Washington for a bipartisan deal when it comes to tax and spending issues.

For the president, the budget proposal — which will come two months after he is required by law to release a federal spending plan — appears to be another attempt to test whether Republicans can accept further tax increases under any circumstances.

“It is not the ideal proposal, but the president recognizes, unlike, I guess, Republicans, that we’re not in the business in Washington of getting everything we want,” said , the White House press secretary. “That does not happen.”

But, Mr. Carney added, “the president believes that we ought to deal with our deficit challenges in a balanced way, and he’s looking for partners on the other side of the aisle who agree with him.”

To that end, the president is to have dinner with a dozen Republican senators on Wednesday evening just after he releases his budget.

The reaction from Mr. Boehner and other Republicans suggests that a deal remains elusive, in large part because Republicans remain suspicious about how far the president is willing to go in making serious entitlement cuts that would anger his supporters.

Mr. Boehner said that the president had “never lived up to his rhetoric” about being willing to cut entitlement programs.

“In reality, he’s moved in the wrong direction, routinely taking off the table entitlement reforms he’s previously told me he could support,” Mr. Boehner said in his statement.

Representative , Republican of , the House majority leader, also seemed unimpressed. On CNBC’s “The Squawk Box,” he said that if the president agreed with Republicans about some entitlement changes, he should agree to make them without additional tax increases.

Mr. Cantor said he did not understand “why we just don’t see the White House come forward and do the things that we agree on.” But, he added, “I am in a wait-and-see mode as to whether this White House is really serious.”

White House officials noted that the Social Security inflation proposal was something that Republican leaders, including Mr. Boehner and Senator of , once embraced.

“They have been advocated by Republicans,” Mr. Carney told reporters Friday. “It means Republicans’ being willing to accept what speaker of the House John Boehner said was good policy three months ago — not an outlandish request.”

Advocates of taking action to confront the nation’s debt praised Mr. Obama’s proposals. Maya MacGuineas, president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, said the president’s proposals “point the way toward an emerging bipartisan consensus between the administration and Congressional leaders over essential fiscal issues.”

Liberals, however, are already balking.

“President Obama’s plan to cut Social Security would harm seniors who worked hard all their lives,” said Anna Galland, the executive director of the liberal group . “Under this plan, a typical 80-year-old woman would lose the equivalent of three months’ worth of food every year. That’s unconscionable.”
156 2013-04-06 Critics often point to Salman Rushdie’s novel “Midnight’s Children,” published in 1981, as the earliest example in English of magical realism, the literary style that burst into fashion after Mr. García Márquez’s “One Hundred Years of Solitude” was translated into English in 1970. But “The Prince” was written more than a decade before the Rushdie novel came out.

“Koster’s magical realism was direct, not an imitation of anything or something he learned in school,” said the Gregory Rabassa, the pre-eminent translator of Latin American fiction, who included “The Prince” on reading lists for courses he taught at Queens College and elsewhere. “He was embedded there in Panama, so he just fell naturally into it, caught the magical side and produced a novel that, through criticism by caricature, is the essence of ‘the dictator has no clothes.’ ”

Yet Mr. Koster, 79, is a pure product of New York, as becomes clear the instant he opens his mouth. Born Richard Morton Koster, he spent his childhood in the East New York, Flatbush and Prospect Heights sections of Brooklyn, where his father was a doctor. He attended high school in Bay Ridge and still has fond memories of going to Dodgers games at Ebbets Field.

After graduating from Yale, where he was an English major, he was drafted into the Army, which assigned him to military intelligence. Because he already spoke Spanish, he ended up in Panama and, except for a couple of years of graduate school at New York University, he has been there ever since.

Mr. Koster is “what we call un gringo aplatanado,” or a “plantainized gringo,” said the Panamanian writer Guillermo Sánchez Borbón. “He is someone whose friends and spouse are Panamanian, who understands all the political jokes and allusions and whose command of Spanish is such that he writes really well in our language.”

For many years Mr. Koster taught literature to American soldiers and officials at the Florida State University campus in the former Canal Zone. At the same time, he was often engaged in journalism, writing for Copley News Service and The New York Times, as well as Newsweek, Harper’s Magazine and other publications.

“I liked his wit and sense of humor, which is sardonic but not cynical,” said Lewis Lapham, the former editor of Harper’s. “He is an open-eyed idealist, a guy you could send somewhere and know you were not going to get back the standard authorized version.”

For authors and journalists new to Panama, a visit to Mr. Koster has always been all but obligatory. John le Carré was one of them when he was writing “The Tailor of Panama,” and when that novel was published, Mr. Koster was the first person named in the acknowledgments.

“He is someone who is constantly indignant, scathing but very funny, and quite a convivial fellow,” Mr. le Carré, who wrote the main cover blurb for the reissue of “The Prince,” said in a telephone interview from London. “He had an encyclopedic memory of the political shenanigans there and cast a very wise eye on everything going on around him.”

From his perch in Panama, Mr. Koster has also been deeply involved in American politics. For 30 years he was a member of the Democratic National Committee, representing first the Panama Canal Zone and then Americans Abroad, the party’s expatriate branch.

Mr. Koster said that his experiences in the politics of both countries helped shape his fiction. The character of Kiki Sancudo, he said, draws on both Robert F. Kennedy, to whom Mr. Koster was pledged as a delegate in 1968, and Tito Arias, a well-known Panamanian politician who was married to the ballerina Margot Fonteyn and became a quadriplegic after he was shot by a disgruntled follower.

“Politics is politics,” regardless of the location, Mr. Koster said. “The leaders are the same. Usually when a person wants power, it’s like a sign around the neck saying that something is missing.”

“The Prince” is actually the first part of what has come to be known as “The Tinieblas Trilogy,” all three of whose titles refer to treatises by Machiavelli. Overlook Press plans to reissue the other two titles, “The Dissertation” and “Mandragon,” both originally published in the 1970s — and both with cult followings of their own — between now and the summer of 2014.

In the last of those novels, Mr. Koster destroyed Tinieblas. Looking back, he regrets that action, because it led to nearly a decade of writer’s block.

“Of course it’s perfectly reasonable, after 10 years of concentrated imaginative effort, to be sick of the whole damn thing,” he said. “But I had burned all my bridges, and I couldn’t go back. What got me back was that Manuel Noriega gave me something authentic to be afraid of,” when he emerged as Panama’s thuggish dictator in the mid-1980s.

A result was Mr. Koster’s only nonfiction book, “In the Time of the Tyrants,” written with Mr. Sánchez Borbón. He followed that in 1992 with a darkly comic novel about writer’s block and demons, “Carmichael’s Dog,” and another in 2001, “The Glass Mountain,” a thriller in which he revived some characters from “The Dissertation.”

At the moment Mr. Koster is working on another novel, set in a reconstituted Tinieblas that is democratic but corrupt, a characterization often applied to contemporary Panama. He describes the book as a murder mystery focused on the battle for control of a television station, and said it would also incorporate elements of that most Latin American of dramatic forms, the telenovela.

“I never thought of being anything but a writer,” he said. “I had the same plan Faulkner had with Yoknapatawpha County, to have all my books in Tinieblas, and there was no reason why I couldn’t, except that I lost my nerve. So now I get to write another one.”
157 2013-04-06 JUNK bonds have never been more popular, even if they no longer deserve to be called high-yield bonds, the more polite description that Wall Street prefers.

During the first quarter of this year, a record $133 billion of such bonds were sold around the world. While sales in the United States fell a little short of the record set in the third quarter of last year, that was more than made up for by rising sales in Europe and Asia.

At the same time, the yield on such bonds has fallen to the lowest level on record. The Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield index yielded 5.7 percent at the end of the quarter, as can be seen in the accompanying graph. That was down from 6.1 percent at the end of the year, and from 8.3 percent at the end of 2011. Junk bonds are those rated below investment grade by the bond rating agencies, and their current popularity reflects the search for yield by many investors, whose alternatives include savings accounts that pay almost nothing.

To some, that is cause for concern. In a speech to the Economic Club of New York last week, William C. Dudley, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, pointed to “potential excesses in certain corners of the financial markets,” saying the high-yield market and the related leveraged loan market “do seem somewhat frothy.”

He added, however, that even if those markets were to incur major setbacks, the overall economy might not be badly affected. “The size of the asset classes in question is relatively modest, and most of the investors in these assets are not highly leveraged,” he said. “So if asset valuations were to adjust sharply and some investors experienced painful losses, I do not expect that such a shock would threaten financial stability.”
158 2013-04-06 BASIC CONFUSION One of the great enemies of people working abroad is bad advice, especially since there are fewer sources to counter misinformation thousands of miles from home.

For example, Americans working abroad are eligible for the foreign earned income exclusion, which in 2012 exempted the first $95,100 from tax. But even if Americans earn less than that or are paying higher taxes in the country where they are working, they still need to file a tax return with the I.R.S.

“Some think if you’re paying taxes in Germany and the Netherlands and the taxes are higher than in the U.S., you don’t have to file a return,” said Ian M. Comisky, partner at the law firm Blank Rome and co-author of “Tax Fraud and Evasion.” “That’s not accurate. You have to file a U.S. return, and you get a credit for it.”

Increased I.R.S. scrutiny of bank accounts abroad under the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, which began to take effect this year, means foreign banks must report more information on American account holders. Mr. Comisky said he had received calls from people with undeclared overseas accounts who asked if they could transfer the money to a friend who was not an American citizen and have that person transfer it back to them as a gift to avoid the penalties from years of not paying their taxes.

“I said, ‘You can do it, but it’s illegal,’ ” Mr. Comisky said. “That’s pure tax evasion.”

There is also the issue of other countries’ taxes that the United States does not recognize. Marylouise Serrato, executive director of American Citizens Abroad, a lobbying group, said many wealth, social and value-added taxes in Europe were not eligible for credits or deductions on American taxes. “They could be a significant part of your foreign tax bill, but you can’t apply them to your U.S. taxes, so you just pay them,” she said.

While making mistakes on taxes is common, Frank Reilly, president of Reilly Financial Advisors, which has had an office in Saudi Arabia since the 1970s, said people working abroad also often made poor decisions about real estate.

With homes in the United States, there are two common problems. One is the logistical challenge of renting out a home you own from thousands of miles away. The other is deciding to buy a retirement home somewhere in the United States when you plan to work abroad for many more years. By the time you stop working, you may not want to live there.

The most financially destructive real estate problem comes when income and mortgage payments are in different currencies. “When someone in the United States takes out a mortgage, they know that their payment is $1,300,” Mr. Reilly said. “When they take out a mortgage in euros, it could be 1,300 euros. That could be $1,500 or $1,800 or $2,300. They’re exposed to currency fluctuations.”

Mr. Reilly said he counseled clients to imagine what a shift in the exchange rate could mean to them and asked some to consider putting many months of payments in that currency as a hedge.

ACCOUNT COMPLICATIONS While new American reporting requirements are meant to catch tax evaders, they are causing problems for people simply making a living abroad.

Ms. Serrato said her group had heard of many instances of Americans abroad having their accounts closed in the United States because the banks did not want to deal with the reporting requirements. On the other end, she has heard that opening accounts in different countries has become more difficult.

“We support the crackdown on tax evasion, but there has been a lot of blanket legislation put out there that can hit the unknowing or the unwitting,” she said.

Foreign pension plans, for instance, are not considered tax-exempt under American law. Americans are required to report the plans to the I.R.S. as they would bank or investment accounts. Failure to do so carries harsh penalties.

“If you’re a person who didn’t know your pension account needed to be reported but you reported your checking and savings account,” Ms. Serrato said, “now you’re faced with criminal penalties for a filing error and you could end up paying a penalty that could wipe out 50 percent of that account.”

The I.R.S. put a streamlined procedure in place in September for people working abroad who owe less than $1,500 in back taxes on these plans. People who owe more than that will be treated as “higher risk” cases, the I.R.S. said.

There is now a third, voluntary disclosure program in place for people with unreported money offshore. But now that the offshore inquiry has gone beyond traditional tax havens like Switzerland, lawyers said that immigrants and their children were coming under scrutiny. The increased attention on the Middle East and Asia for tax evaders — or terrorist financiers — is raising concern among people who have accounts in their home countries that they never thought to declare in the United States.

Robert J. Kipnees, a partner at the law firm Lowenstein Sandler, said he recently worked with two clients who had accounts at Bank Leumi in Israel, after the bank notified them that the I.R.S. was asking for all of its account information on American citizens.

“It’s not just high-net-worth people,” he said. “You have people who are first- and second-generation Americans whose families left money behind in the old country and they did not know they had an interest in the account.”

PROPER PLANNING Americans who work abroad for foreign companies rather than companies with American ties may not be required to contribute to Social Security, which can affect the benefits they are eligible for when they retire. This puts a premium on saving on their own and creating a realistic financial plan.

Charles Crew, a chemical engineer, and his wife worked in Saudi Arabia for 36 years until they retired to Minneapolis. Mr. Crew, 62, said that when he was around 40 he realized he was not going to be able to count on Social Security. So he began saving through the plans offered by his employer, the oil company Saudi Aramco. “They had a qualified retirement plan and a 401(k) plan, and both were administered by Vanguard in dollars,” he said.

Like many expatriates who became used to living somewhere with far lower costs — and spending like tourists when they returned to the United States — Mr. Crew said he needed to adjust his expectations quickly and stick to the financial plan he had put together.

“You get excited being back and say, ‘I lived away — I should be able to treat myself,’ ” Mr. Crew said. “You can, but you need to look at some of these things and their impact on the long term and do that without the emotional element to it.”
159 2013-04-06 Hugh McCracken, a virtuoso guitarist who was in such demand as a studio musician that he could afford to turn down Paul McCartney&#x2019;s invitation to join the band Wings in 1971, died on Friday in Manhattan. He was 70.&#xa;   &#xa;The cause was...
160 2013-04-07 Using a contentious medium to try to shape its future....
161 2013-04-07 Columbia University held a symposium that mainly focused on the promise of Big Data technology, but concerns were raised that the technology was racing ahead of society’s understanding of it....
162 2013-04-07 The United States trails Serbia, 2-1, in their Davis Cup quarterfinal after the top-ranked doubles team of Bob and Mike Bryan lost to Nenad Zimonjic and Ilija Bozoljac, 7-6 (5), 7-6 (1), 5-7, 4-6, 15-13, on Saturday in Boise, Idaho.

In the final set, the Serbians had two break points on Bob Bryan’s serve in the ninth game, but the Americans rallied to save the game. The Serbians again had two break points, this time on Mike Bryan’s serve, in the 27th game, and converted on a Mike Bryan error. In the final game, the Bryans had the two break opportunities, but Zimonjic saved them for the Serbs with a service winner and an ace.

Sunday’s reverse singles matches will start with world No. 1 Novak Djokovic playing the American Sam Querrey. The final match will be 44th-ranked Viktor Troicki of Serbia against 23rd-ranked John Isner.
163 2013-04-07 Billy Horschel shot a two-under 70 to take a two-shot lead over Jim Furyk and Charley Hoffman after three rounds of the PGA’s Texas Open in San Antonio.
164 2013-04-07 Auroras Encore, a 66-1 long shot, won the Grand National Steeplechase by nine lengths Saturday in Aintree, England, in a race shadowed by recent horse deaths. All 40 horses in the event returned unscathed after only 17 finished the 4.5-mile course. Four horses died in the previous two editions of the race, prompting organizers to modify the course. Cappa Bleu was second and Teaforthree was third. Sue Smith became the third woman to train a National winner.
165 2013-04-07 Personal dynamics have often seemed to make matches between the two sisters uncomfortable, but the physical toll of the day before seemed to most affect Saturday’s match. Each had been forced to play twice Friday after heavy rain washed out several matches Thursday.

Serena acknowledged that would have been harder on Venus, who has been dealing with lingering back pain as well as Sjogren’s syndrome, an autoimmune disorder.

“She’ll never admit it, ever, but I don’t think she was 100 percent,” Serena said. “But you will never get that out of her. And quite frankly, three matches for her is much tougher than three matches for me. And so, you know, it’s definitely not easy because I’m struggling, and I can’t imagine what she must be feeling.”

Although she lost quickly Saturday, Venus put a positive spin on her run to the semifinals, as well as the effect she and Serena had made together over the last 15 years.

Asked what the legacy of the sisters’ rivalry would be, Venus said: “I haven’t actually thought about that. I don’t know. I think that Serena and I will be remembered as women who changed the sport, and for us just to be able to achieve something like that in our lifetimes is beyond what we ever dreamed of achieving on the court. So I think at the end, that’s what we will cherish.”

Jankovic, a former No. 1 currently ranked 18th, has been one of Serena’s toughest rivals, winning four of their nine career meetings. That 44.4 percent success rate is the highest by any active player who has faced Serena at least three times.

“I just go out there and try to find the keys to play her, and it’s important not to have that fear,” Jankovic said. “You have to believe you can win. It doesn’t matter who’s on the other side of the net. You’ve got to go there thinking you are the better player and that you can win that match. Otherwise, you have no chance.”
166 2013-04-07 Sean Neary, a spokesman for Mr. Baucus, said the senator had regularly rejected requests from those lobbyists for provisions benefiting their clients, like an appeal from one former aide, Pat Bousliman, now working as a wind industry lobbyist, to extend an alternative grant in lieu of tax credit program that expired in 2011.

Mr. Baucus’s decisions are based on the merits of the policies, Mr. Neary said, not on who is advocating for them. “The fact is, oftentimes good policy can indirectly benefit someone,” he said. “That doesn’t mean it shouldn’t be done.”

The debate over the tax code — which has emerged as part of the two-year effort to stimulate the economy and reduce the deficit — could turn into a battle royal. While many members of Congress talk about lowering the corporate tax rate, replacing that lost revenue would require eliminating many tax loopholes that legions of lobbyists, including many who had worked for other prominent lawmakers, make a living laboring to expand or defend.

Mr. Baucus, 71, the son of a wealthy Montana rancher, is somewhat of a wild card in the tax debate: he is the top Democrat in what arguably is the Senate’s most powerful committee seat. The finance panel helps dictate how the government raises almost all of its money, and spends nearly half of it.

But he often bucks his party’s leadership. Last month, for example, he voted against the Democrats’ budget proposal for 2014, which included nearly $1 trillion in new revenues. He also favored the Bush administration’s tax cuts in 2001 for Americans including the wealthy, putting him at odds with many Democrats.

Mr. Baucus, who has spent nearly his entire professional career in Congress, declined a request for an interview. But Mr. Neary said that every action the senator takes is motivated by his commitment to voters.

“Every vote has to answer one question for him and that is: How is it impacting Montanans?” Mr. Neary said.

Several veteran Capitol Hill aides said it was naïve to suggest that former aides could extract special favors from their one-time bosses — unless what they were pushing for had broad support. But the former aides still bring an advantage to the corporations that hire them.

“It does mean you will have someone who knows how the levers of power are pushed or how to push the levers, and who can describe to you how situations are going to play out based on their years of experience,” said Jim Manley, a former aide to Senator , the majority leader. Mr. Manley now works at a Washington lobbying and communications firm, QGA Public Affairs.

In recent interviews, four former aides to Mr. Baucus said that their ties to him heightened their appeal to potential clients. The link also helped justify their salaries, in some cases $500,000 or higher, more than double or triple their Capitol Hill paychecks.

Former Senate aides who become lobbyists must wait a year before they can contact Mr. Baucus or his staff on behalf of a client, according to Senate ethics rules.

Staying active in their circle, one former aide said, also requires that they help Mr. Baucus’s political career, through fund-raising and other assistance.

Several of the lobbyists regularly fly to Big Sky, Mont., for weekend fund-raising retreats that Mr. Baucus hosts, or attend more intimate events in Washington like a gathering last month near the Capitol, where Paul Wilkins, Mr. Baucus’s chief of staff, talked about the millions of dollars Mr. Baucus will need to raise for his re-election campaign next year.

Among them, the top givers include Jeffrey A. Forbes, Mr. Baucus’s former Finance Committee staff director, who has donated a total of at least $25,000 to Mr. Baucus, his political action committee or the Montana . He attended the retreat in February at the Big Sky resort, which included skiing, snowmobiling and a big family dinner at Buck’s T-4 Lodge. The totals grow much bigger — to hundreds of thousands of dollars — when donations from Mr. Forbes’s clients, including Verizon and Altria, and other partners at his lobbying firm, are counted.

Mr. Wilkins said that the donations and fund-raising had been vital, noting that the nearly $4.6 million expected in hand by the end of this month would rank Mr. Baucus’s campaign chest among the top 10 in the Senate.

“It allows us to scare off opponents,” Mr. Wilkins told the group, which included former Baucus aides turned lobbyists, at a Capitol Hill townhouse owned by Federal Express. “It is the basis of everything that we do. So thank you for your support and everything you have done for Senator Baucus.” A New York Times reporter in attendance was asked to leave the private event.

Asked later about his comments, Mr. Wilkins said, “There is no expectation that former staffers do anything related to the office. They are private individuals, if they want to donate fine. If they don’t want to donate, that is fine, too.”

Mr. Baucus’s office points out that the former aides who now work as tax lobbyists are a small fraction of those whose who have worked for him over the years. Still, several colleagues who have served more than two decades on the finance panel — including , Republican of , and , Republican of , both as ranking Republican or chairman — have much smaller networks of former aides who are tax lobbyists, according to the data collected by LegiStorm and the Center for Responsive Politics.

Republicans, though, imposed term limits on committee leadership posts more than a decade ago to help deter the creation of a so-called iron triangle among the chairman, federal officials and corporate lobbyists.

Mr. Baucus is viewed as an important ally when it comes to including corporate tax priorities into legislation. Last year, he introduced a plan — most of which was eventually passed into law as part of the fiscal cliff deal in January — that contained more than a dozen tax breaks, some of them pushed by clients who had retained Washington lobbying firms that employ his former aides or political advisers.Shannon Finley, who served as a political consultant and fund-raiser for Mr. Baucus before joining a lobbying firm in Washington, was hired in late 2011 by Beam, the liquor industry giant, to protect a federal tax break that it gets a cut of for producing its Cruzan rum in the United States Virgin Islands. Despite protests from fiscal conservatives that it was a giveaway, the provision was included in Mr. Baucus’s package, costing $222 million over the coming decade. Ms. Finley declined to comment.

The National Restaurant Association, whose board includes a senior McDonald’s executive, had three former aides to Mr. Baucus working on tax-related matters, including Patrick Heck, who once held the post of chief tax counsel to Mr. Baucus. The association helped secure three provisions in the January deal, worth an estimated $5.9 billion over the next decade to restaurants and other companies. Elizabeth Garner, a Restaurant Association lobbyist, said Mr. Heck had expertise and relationships that proved helpful in their push.

With a debate on rewriting the tax code to streamline and simplify it expected to start this year — leaders in both the House and the Senate are working on their own drafts — lobbying could reach levels like that of the 2009 debate over health care, which also was overseen in part by the Senate Finance Committee, with Mr. Baucus at the gavel. His staff is already hosting meetings with industry lobbyists, academics and outside parties to get advice on the tax package that the Senate Finance Committee is trying to create.

Mr. Baucus’s former aides will almost certainly be pushing competing plans. Some large corporations with relatively high corporate tax rates, like Verizon and Altria, have retained Mr. Forbes to help push for the overall cut in the tax rate, while others, like General Electric, which pays a relatively low rate, have a team of lobbyists including Ms. Finley to try to protect their various federal tax advantages.

Mr. Baucus’s office said the senator’s actions on the tax rewriting effort would be based on the bipartisan consensus that he was trying to build among the committee’s members, not any special favors that individual industries wanted, even if they were represented by his former aides.

Bob Packwood, the former Republican senator from who was the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee in 1986 — the last time Congress passed broad legislation rewriting the tax code — said in an interview that former aides tended to have access to lawmakers, though he questioned how much influence they really had.

But one thing is certain: they will try.

“The lobbying will be tremendous,” he said. “As it was last time.”
167 2013-04-07 RIO DE JANEIRO — Brazil’s Public Ministry, a body of independent public prosecutors, has begun an investigation into a claim connecting former President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva to a vast vote-buying scheme that involved the channeling of funds to the governing Workers’ Party.

The inquiry, which was announced in the capital, Brasília, on Friday and comes after several months of analyzing testimony, opens a new phase in what has arguably been Brazil’s largest corruption scandal, already involving the conviction of Mr. da Silva’s powerful former chief of staff, José Dirceu de Oliveira e Silva, on conspiracy and bribery charges last year.

The move by the Public Ministry, which asked the federal police to carry out the investigation, is thought to be the first time that Mr. da Silva has been directly investigated in connection to the scheme, called the mensalão, or big monthly allowance, for the regular payments that some lawmakers received. The scandal emerged in 2005, during Mr. da Silva’s first term as president. At 67, he remains a towering figure in Brazilian politics.

Marcos Valério de Souza, a businessman who received a 40-year sentence last year after he was found to have operated much of the embezzlement scheme, said in testimony last September that Mr. da Silva and Antonio Palocci, a former finance minister, negotiated in 2005 a multimillion-dollar payment with the former president of a Portuguese telecommunications company.

The funds, according to Mr. de Souza, were channeled from a supplier of the company, Portugal Telecom, based in Macau, the former Portuguese colony that is now a special administrative region of China, to accounts of advertising executives in Brazil who worked on campaigns for the Workers’ Party. He also said that the funds were used to pay campaign-related debts.

A spokesman for Instituto Lula, the former president’s institute in São Paulo, said Saturday that Mr. da Silva had not been formally notified of the investigation. He declined to comment further. When Mr. de Souza’s testimony was made public last year, Mr. da Silva dismissed it, saying, “I cannot believe in lies.”
168 2013-04-07 Consider the performance of European stocks in the first quarter. While stock funds that invest broadly in the region returned 2.6 percent, on average, the stock markets of individual countries were all over the map. Greece, for instance, finished the quarter up more than 14 percent and Switzerland gained more than 10 percent. Germany, meanwhile, was flat, while Spain sank 6 percent and Italy fell nearly 10 percent.

Future success in Europe will require investors to distinguish not only among markets, but among sectors and individual stocks as well, money managers say. But it is becoming harder to find decent values among European stocks, said Kimball Brooker Jr., a co-manager of the First Eagle Overseas fund.

Broadly speaking, European equities still trade at lower valuations than domestic or Japanese shares. Yet the broad market’s price-to-earnings ratios don’t necessarily paint an accurate picture of the investment landscape, Mr. Brooker said.

For instance, a few years ago, it was fairly easy to find shares of high-quality multinational companies in the region that were trading at discounted prices relative to their American counterparts, simply because they were based in Europe. Today, those types of industry-leading companies — those with pristine balance sheets that generate a large portion of their sales in faster-growing areas like emerging markets — are becoming expensive.

These are companies like L’Oréal, the beauty products giant based outside Paris, and Diageo, the spirits maker based in London, said Charles de Vaulx, chief investment officer at International Value Advisers. Both stocks are trading at P/E ratios well above 20.

“These stocks are very pricey, but deservedly so,” he said, owing to their strong finances and geographic reach. But that leaves fewer apparent opportunities for value-minded investors looking to put new money to work.

“To find generally cheap stocks in Europe, you have to look for cyclical businesses that require you to believe that we’re on the verge of a major economic recovery,” Mr. de Vaulx said. “Unfortunately, we worry that European economies are decelerating.”

THIS explains why only about 57 percent of the assets in the IVA Worldwide fund, for which Mr. de Vaulx is a co-manager, are currently in equities. That’s down from 71 percent a year ago. Furthermore, only about 15 percent of the total portfolio is in European equities, with double that stake held in the United States.

European stocks are facing increasing competition for global investment dollars now that Japan’s stock market is finally rebounding, said Mark D. Luschini, chief investment strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott.

Japanese stock funds, in fact, soared 15 percent in the first quarter, more than their gains in all of 2012. And over the past six months, the MSCI Japan stock index has climbed by nearly 42 percent.

For European equities to continue to rally in the face of such stiff competition, from both Japan and the United States, “it’s going to require some kind of positive catalyst,” Mr. Luschini said.

In the short run, he said, he does not know whether any economic indicators will provide such a lift.

But over a five-year horizon, he says he thinks European markets could still turn out to be among the more attractive foreign destinations, especially if European companies can keep increasing their profitability while the economy slowly heals.
169 2013-04-07 “Some people will never forgive Tiger for what happened, but that’s unimportant to his success,” said Paul Azinger, North’s ESPN colleague and a one-time major winner.

“For a person who makes mistakes in their life, they have to have the ability to forgive themselves before they can come to grips and really have that peace again that I think is required for Tiger to play the way he has. So I think it’s a good sign for him personally that he’s playing the way he’s playing.”

Damian Vaughn, a former N.F.L. tight end turned performance coach, described Azinger’s observation as accurate. Vaughn, whose Vaughn Center in Arizona was formed to help athletes and other high achievers gain greater success through the integration of mind and body, said Woods’s serial adultery, and his subsequent divorce, had thrown his identity out of sync.

Speaking by telephone, Vaughn, who has not worked with Woods, said: “Tiger is someone who clearly has had the ability on the course to regulate his emotions, to handle the pressure and stresses so he is able to perform at his peak when it matters most. But what happened in his personal life jeopardized his perception of himself. Now there’s a discrepancy in what he thinks he has to do and what he’s actually done. To narrow that gap, Tiger had to access what happened. He had to take his emotions, objectively observe them, accept them and then let them go. He had to forgive himself so he could return to using his mental power in a positive way.”

Vaughn added: “He’s obviously looking happier. If he is at peace in work life and his personal life, that’s everything.”

Since his 2010 divorce, Woods has shared custody of his two children with his former wife, Elin Nordegren.

On the final day of the Honda Classic, the tour event in March near his home in Jupiter, Fla., Woods was walking to the eighth green when a “Go, Daddy” sign, held by a girl standing behind the gallery rope, caught his eye. Woods veered toward the rope, bent over and kissed his daughter, Sam, the sign bearer, on the forehead.

Two weeks later, in another public display of affection, Woods posted on his Facebook page portraits of him with the Olympic champion skier Lindsey Vonn as part of an announcement that they were dating.

“I don’t really know too much about his personal life, but it just seems like he’s happier,” Stricker said, “whether that means his golf game or his personal life are in better order or all of the above. Yeah, it just seems like I think he’s got some confidence going in both areas, you know, and he’s playing well and putting well and feeling good about everything.”

Stricker said he was struck by the way Woods credited him with his success on the greens after their practice session before the World Golf Championships event at Doral.

“To throw me a bone like he did at the end of the tournament, it was very nice,” Stricker said. “He doesn’t do that very often.”

Mark O’Meara, once as close to Woods as was anyone else on the tour, was struck by a text message he received from Woods last month as he stepped off an elevator after a strong opening round at the Mississippi Gulf Resort Classic in Biloxi. O’Meara said Woods wrote, “Hey, nice playing, dude.”

O’Meara, who had grown apart from Woods in recent years, after his own divorce and his transition to the Champions Tour, said his first reaction was: “Wow. This is really nice.” He said he tapped a playful response, “Dude, are you turning over a new leaf, my man?”

On the course, Woods is back to his old self where it counts. He ranks first on the tour in putting and has won three tournaments.

“You very seldom see a player play exceptionally well when they’ve got issues going on off the golf course,” North said.

“The more comfortable you are off the golf course, generally the more comfortable you’ll be on it. And if Tiger has found a happy spot, that’s great. It’s only going to help him in the long run.”
170 2013-04-07 The Congressional Budget Office, in a report on the domestic economy issued in February, forecast “real potential gross domestic product” growth of 1.8 percent to 2.5 percent a year through 2023.

Farther afield, the International Monetary Fund expects global growth of 3.8 percent this year and 4 percent in 2014. That is a modest upturn from its estimate of 3.2 percent for 2012, but according to United Nations data, lower than in 9 of the 10 years before the financial crisis.

As somber as the outlook is, slow growth has not been much of a hindrance to stock and bond markets in the last four years, when corporate profit margins reached record highs. That is proof that investment portfolios need not suffer along with the economy, something that hardly surprises Jeremy Grantham, chief investment strategist of the fund management company GMO.

In a recent letter to shareholders, Mr. Grantham said he found little connection between strong profits and strong economic growth. If anything, rapid expansion can hurt bottom lines, he said, because companies tend to pay too high a price trying to exploit it.

“The problem with growth companies and growth countries is that they so often outrun the capital with which to grow and must raise more capital,” diluting earnings per share, he said.

That doesn’t make it safe to ignore the economic environment. Those who foresee continued lethargy point out that investors have already had several years to adjust to slow growth and have put their money to work accordingly. That means that they can expect returns to be lower, and to come from fewer market niches, and not necessarily the ones that conventional wisdom suggests would do better.

“The attitude is that slow growth equals a bad investment environment, so you want to buy bonds,” said Nathan J. Rowader, director of investments at the Forward Funds. “But interest rates are very depressed, so you can’t get decent returns in bonds. You need to think about it from a secular standpoint. Low growth and low rates is a good environment for stocks.”

Mr. Rowader favors businesses that return cash to shareholders rather than investing it in a heroic effort to wring growth out of an economy that has little of it.

“It’s important in this scenario to buy dividend-paying stocks, because the ways that companies can grow earnings are limited,” he said. “It means something to show that they can pay dividends and grow them over time instead of hoping that the economy gets better.”

Suitable companies tend to have strong balance sheets and credit ratings, Mr. Rowader said. They do not have much debt, but can borrow cheaply anytime they choose. He prefers European examples over American ones because they have similar business mixes, but are often cheaper.

“They can grow their dividends over time, but they’re being punished because they’re European,” he said. “You can also get a bump up when that undervaluation starts to correct itself.”

Three such companies in Forward’s portfolios are Lottomatica, an Italian provider of gambling technology; Danone, the French food giant; and Ensco, a British enterprise engaged in deepwater oil drilling.

CHUCK AKRE, manager of the Akre Focus fund, says he likes to look for stocks of companies that can expand despite the poor economy.

“We continue to be focused on trying to find compounders,” Mr. Akre said, meaning companies that generate comparatively high returns on capital and have a record of plowing earnings back into their businesses in wise, profitable ways. The sorts of returns that they can produce are lower in a sluggish economy, he added, but their valuations are lower, too, so shareholders can still do well.

Two of his holdings are MasterCard and Visa. Even though “in a slower-growth economy people spend a little less on cards,” he said, these companies can still flourish from the broad global trend toward increasing card use and less reliance on cash and checks.

Mr. Akre also owns shares of American Tower, which rents space on cellphone towers through contracts that call for annual price increases. “It’s a great business model regardless of the environment,” he said. “It’s vertical real estate.”

Mr. Croft shares Mr. Rowader’s appreciation of big dividend payouts, but Mr. Croft prefers to obtain them from American companies that do business in places with “pockets of growth that are faster than the U.S.,” he said.

His selections include Mondelez International, a snack food manufacturer spun off from Kraft that derives 45 percent of sales from emerging markets; the tobacco producer Philip Morris International and “solid blue-chip companies that may not be as expensive as they used to be,” like Johnson & Johnson and Pfizer.

Mr. Croft also likes companies that are improving productivity or resolving issues that have limited profits, including three makers of big-ticket items of various sorts, Whirlpool, Ford Motor and Honeywell. The idea is to own businesses that are fixing themselves when the economy is struggling to manage the same feat.

“Everyone talks about how margins are at their peaks, and they wonder how long it can keep going,” he said. “You’ve got to find companies that are hitting new peaks and are going to keep getting better.”
171 2013-04-07 Nevertheless, company profits in the sector have been erratic — and shareholder profits scarce. The Guggenheim Solar exchange-traded fund, which mirrors a portfolio of solar stocks, fell nearly 30 percent in the 12 months through March.

So what is the most commonly invoked explanation for an industry where sizzling demand translates into sinking share prices? “Chinese industrial policy,” replied Kevin Landis, manager of the Firsthand Alternative Energy fund.

Chinese national and local governments have encouraged solar production with a grab bag of inducements, including loans, loan guarantees, tax breaks and even free land.

But the solar market, unlike other industries prone to cyclical overcapacity and subsequent busts, hasn’t self-corrected. Chinese vendors, Mr. Schuman said, haven’t been “as responsive to typical indicators” of excess production. “They haven’t closed capacity,” he said. “In China, shareholder profit can be a lower priority than employment, or the competitive dynamics between provinces and cities.”

So the prices of solar panels have been in free fall. In 2005, panels typically cost $3.50 per watt of power. By last year, prices had tumbled to 75 cents a watt. This year, Mr. Kann estimates, they will fall to 49 cents.

But Ken Abrams, a manager of the Vanguard Explorer fund for the last 18 years, says he thinks a looming shakeout of suppliers will ease overcapacity. Chinese producers are among the prime victims of their own overproduction, he said. And it is unclear how long the Chinese will support failing ventures. Eight Chinese banks pushed the main subsidiary of one major panel producer, Suntech Power Holdings, into bankruptcy last month.

“We see increasing hesitance on the part of Chinese government agencies to finance continuing deficits,” Mr. Abrams said. If Chinese authorities withhold support, more producers will fail, easing the overcapacity that has shredded prices.

Who would gain in such a shakeout? Mr. Abrams says it is a good time to consider industry leaders. The Vanguard fund holds large positions in First Solar, a solar systems developer based in Tempe, Ariz., and in Solar City, a leader in leasing solar systems; it is based in San Mateo, Calif.

But globally, low-cost producers should prevail, Mr. Schuman said. These would “probably be Asia-based,” he added.

Some fund managers are looking to a creative business model that can flourish with rock-bottom panel pricing.

Why lock into selling solar panels that keep getting cheaper? Better to buy the panels, install them free and then charge for the electricity they generate, gaining a predictable revenue stream. That’s the logic behind Solar City — which mainly serves residential and commercial customers in the United States — and several private solar leasing companies

“When the price of panels goes down, their business gets better,” Mr. Landis said. “The sweet spot is buying the panels and owning the output.”

Leasing is intended to overcome customer resistance to the high upfront cost of solar installation. Since a December initial public offering, Solar City shares have more than doubled.

Still, the leasing model requires upfront investment that can obliterate earnings until the customer base expands enough to produce offsetting lease income. Such is not yet the case with Solar City. which reported a larger-than-expected loss in the fourth quarter of last year.

Solar City is not the only company that employs leasing. SunPower, a major panel producer based in San Jose, Calif.,, has built a leasing business. And with several smaller private leasing firms, further I.P.O.’s are “a good possibility,” Mr. Abrams said.

“Leasing is going to be 90 percent of the solar business,” he said.

Colm O’Connor, co-manager of the Calvert Global Alternative Energy fund, says he expects the United States, Japan and China to lead this year in solar installation growth. Mr. O’Connor has a position in Kyocera, the ceramics maker and panel manufacturer, which could benefit from adoption of solar power in Japan.

In most areas, solar power is more expensive than coal and natural gas options for electricity generation. But the gap has narrowed, and in places like Hawaii, Italy and Japan, he says, solar is now roughly even in cost. He has trimmed his overall investment in solar, however, preferring other areas of alternative energy. His largest holding is Novozymes, the Denmark-based enzyme maker that stands to gain from the emergence of cellulosic ethanol, made from sources other than corn. Novozymes will capture “a large part” of the cellulosic market, he predicted. “We are favorable on the long-term outlook for cellulosic ethanol.”

Mr. O’Connor also favors companies that help manage delivery of energy from solar and wind sources. The Prysmian Group, based in Milan, Italy, has contracts to connect a North Sea wind park with the mainland grid in Germany. The PSI Group, based in Berlin, markets software that helps to manage the fluctuations in renewable energy production.

Frederick Reynolds, who manages the Reynolds Blue Chip Growth fund, has stakes in Solar City and First Solar. But, he says: “I don’t have much conviction in solar stocks in general at this time. I’m running the risk that I’m early.”

Mr. Reynolds tries to balance long-term optimism with near-term anxiety. “I think they can do well long term,” he said, “but until then there’s lots of volatility.”

ONE factor that may eventually help solar stocks is that institutional investors have relatively small holdings.

For example, they own slightly less than 22 percent of SunPower shares, according to Nasdaq. By contrast, institutions, which include pension funds, insurance companies and mutual funds, own more than 92 percent of Google’s outstanding shares.

Asked if low institutional ownership could turn into a positive, because so much buying power is untapped, Mr. Reynolds said: “I see it as a positive. A lot of institutions may be buying after me.”

Until then, holders of solar stocks can only nurse their wounds. Those who take the lead are often rewarded with arrows in their back. And right now, a lot of solar investors have “backs full of arrows,” Mr. Landis lamented.
172 2013-04-07 Higher-than-expected fees are a drag on performance and a major contributor to tracking error, which is usually negative, meaning that a fund underperforms its benchmark. Morgan Stanley found that 709 E.T.F.’s recorded negative tracking error last year, while 132 had positive tracking error and three matched their indexes.

Tracking error can vary by asset class. Commodity, currency and emerging-market E.T.F.’s, for instance, tend to have higher tracking error than funds linked to the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index. “Tracking error is larger the more illiquid the underlying securities,” said Lee Davidson, an E.T.F. analyst at Morningstar.

Main causes of tracking error are illiquidity and transaction costs. The prices of illiquid securities tend to be volatile, making it more likely that at the moment a fund buys or sells, there will be a significant difference between the trade price and the prices more typically seen for the security. These discrepancies can work in either direction, so a fund can sometimes outperform its benchmark. Stocks that are thinly traded also tend to be associated with higher trading costs.

Analysts say tracking error may also stem from other factors, like changes to the underlying benchmark index — or whether a fund holds an entire index or just a sample of it.

Even within an asset class, tracking error can vary considerably. Consider fixed-income E.T.F.’s. Last year, the Pimco Germany Bond Index fund had a tracking error of minus 1 basis point, or a hundredth of a percentage point, according to the Morgan Stanley study. On the other hand, the Market Vectors LatAm Aggregate Bond fund underperformed its benchmark by 386 basis points, or 3.86 percentage points.

Tracking error can also vary by provider. Vanguard — one of the three biggest providers of E.T.F.’s by total assets under management, along with BlackRock and State Street Global Advisors — had the lowest average tracking error last year, just 14 basis points. Vanguard’s E.T.F.’s are an outgrowth of its family of index mutual funds, which are the oldest in the business. For investors, the main difference is that the E.T.F.’s are priced and traded all day, while the mutual funds are priced only after the markets close.

For E.T.F.’s, BlackRock’s average tracking error was 44 basis points, and State Street’s was 51 basis points.

FFCM had the highest average tracking error last year: 180 basis points, or 1.8 percentage points. FFCM manages four funds that are intended to be market neutral — that is, to provide positive returns even in a down market — and provide both long and short exposure to a variety of stock market indexes. Its custom E.T.F.’s are generally United States stock or multi-asset-class funds that fall outside of traditional equity classifications.

According to the Morgan Stanley study, average tracking error has been cut in half since 2009, when it was 125 basis points. But 58 percent of E.T.F.’s recorded an increase in tracking error last year, versus 39 percent with a decrease and 3 percent with no change.

“E.T.F.’s have become a popular way to do wide asset allocation, especially since they are less expensive than mutual funds, but many investors may not be aware of tracking error,” said William W. Smead, chief executive and chief investment officer at Smead Capital Management.

Part of the problem is that individual fund families have different ways of measuring tracking error. Often, it is regarded as the difference between the movement of an E.T.F.’s net asset value and the underlying index over a certain period, usually a year. That’s the definition that Morgan Stanley used in its study. Yet Morningstar calls this “tracking difference,” and Vanguard calls it “excess returns.”

For Morningstar and Vanguard, tracking error has a different meaning — and it gets a bit technical. The two firms say it is the volatility of tracking difference (or excess return) over time, which they calculate as the standard deviation of tracking difference or excess return. “Tracking difference is more important if you’re buying and holding, while tracking error is more important if you’re trading,” said Mr. Davidson, Morningstar’s E.T.F. analyst. “You don’t want huge volatility in that case.”

According to a recent Morningstar report, new rules issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority require E.T.F. providers in Europe not only to disclose both tracking difference and tracking error, but also to estimate them for the year ahead. But the rules don’t specify how to calculate those measures, so there is still no effective, uniform way for investors to compare them across funds.

In the United States, which has no such rules, there is little uniformity. On their Web sites, however, providers often disclose some measure of the divergence between a fund’s performance and its benchmark index.

Mr. Davidson said that tracking error might one day become a new focus for providers. “We’ve seen a war on costs among E.T.F. providers,” he said. “Perhaps we’ll see them start to compete on who has the lowest tracking error.”

And that could only be good for investors.
173 2013-04-07 The study of driver workload management — some would point to the irony in this reaction to a situation partly created by automakers themselves — is progressing alongside the efforts of the planners who dream up new generations of infotainment features. A foundation of workload study is the Yerkes-Dodson Law, a theory developed in the early 20th century that plots workload and performance on a bell curve.

There can be trouble at either end — an inattentive, underworked driver may be as much a risk as an overworked driver who cannot handle the combined sensory inputs and driving chores. In the middle is the ideal, a driver functioning at optimum level.

Systems that detect driver drowsiness, like the Mercedes-Benz Attention Assist feature, can prompt a driver to be more alert, but driver overload is harder to manage. N.H.T.S.A. has issued voluntary accessory-design guidelines in an effort to reduce distraction, but given consumers’ hunger for gadgets, managing those distractions to reduce workload may prove a better solution.

As safety groups press for restrictions on phone conversations and messaging in the car, the urgency to find a solution will only increase, experts say. Studies of driver workload have a long history, but a milestone came in 2003 when the John A. Volpe National Transportation Systems Center, a unit of the Transportation Department — in conjunction with Delphi, the giant parts supplier, Ford Motor and several universities — began a research project to quantify distractions and driving situations as a way to generate workload estimates.

Paul A. Green, a University of Michigan research professor, said in a telephone interview that the Volpe study stimulated research. Today, automakers and universities are developing technologies that will let them measure the level of driver stress and the response to the pressure. That data could be used by a management system that would delay calls, alerts, text messages and warning lights at the times when the driver’s workload was peaking and the stress level was high.

Because many cars are equipped with advanced electronics — radar, sensors and cameras developed to enable features like smart cruise control and lane-departure warning — some of the equipment needed to gauge workload is already in vehicles. Sensors that determine speed, throttle position, steering wheel angle and transmission gear selection, and even weather conditions, can be adapted to see traffic on the road and monitor driving situations.

Jeff Greenberg, a Ford senior technical leader, said in an interview that his research team had built models that predicted workload based on information from data points relative to time. The model takes into account that when steering and throttle position are constant for an extended time and outside sensors show moderate traffic, workload will be minimal. But if over just a few seconds the accelerator is pressed, traffic becomes heavy and the wheel is turned, the system determines that the driver has encountered a changing situation and workload is increasing.

Those elements describe the driving situation. But what about the driver?

That is where biometrics — devices that measure how well the driver is managing workload — come into play. A simulator built by Ford to demonstrate biometric tools uses sensors in the steering wheel, like those on exercise machines, to monitor heart rate. Sweaty palms are detected by gauging skin conductivity. Probes aimed at the driver’s face measure skin temperature, and a sensor in the seat belt can tell when the driver is breathing hard.

Mr. Greenberg said that by combining biometric data with an analysis of the driving situation, workload could be very accurately gauged and distractions could be delayed until things were on an even keel.

Some automakers have not embraced biometrics as a practical way of measuring driver stress. Jim Foley, senior principal engineer at Toyota’s research center in Ann Arbor, Mich., said in a phone interview that although work on biometrics started in the 1970s and continued, there were problems in applying the technology to production vehicles. He added that measuring anything through the steering wheel did not work if the driver was wearing gloves and that getting a reliable signal for all drivers was challenging.

Bryan Reimer, a scientist engaged in driver workload studies at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, disagreed. “Some researchers believe biometrics work in the laboratory only,” he said in a phone interview. “Others, including myself, believe firmly they can be used in the car.”

He added that heart rate could be measured through the seat as well as through the steering wheel. “We are doing a considerable amount of work using biometrics in conjunction with other visual information, such as eye tracking and vehicle telemetry, to provide a holistic view of the demands the driver is under,” he said.

Honda and Ohio State University are collaborating on a driver workload study. They have built a simulator on a platform that mimics vehicle motion while driving scenarios are projected on a wraparound screen and driver performance is charted. Biometric sensors measure blood pressure, heart rate, eye movement, respiration, blink rates, skin conductivity and, by means of functional near-infrared technology, brain activity.

“We’re trying to get a better understanding of how the driver thinks about the system while driving the vehicle,” said Steven Feit, Honda’s chief engineer for infotainment research. “We don’t want to just lock out features, but we want to make them available at the right time. We’re trying to do a balanced approach between controlling the environment and optimizing the operation of infotainment features.”

Janet Weisenberger, director of the Ohio State University simulation laboratory, said that this research could be applicable to the development of semiautonomous vehicles. “In the long term, you want to know things about the driver so systems could be best matched to a driver’s capabilities.”

The semiautonomous car that can assist the driver in difficult situations is an obvious next step beyond using workload detection to manage distraction. If the automobile can gauge workload, it can lend a hand when necessary.

Most luxury cars are available with collision avoidance systems and intelligent cruise control, and, as workload measurement technology is refined, other aids will become possible. For example, if sensors see that snow is obscuring the road and biometrics indicate driver stress, the vehicle could project lane lines on the windshield. But there might be limits to how much control automakers would want to wrest from the driver: leaving the driver with little to do could be problematic.

“Lost in the debate around autonomous technology,” Mr. Reimer of M.I.T. said, “is that these features pull workload away from the driver and can result in under arousal. The traditional cause of that is driver fatigue, but semiautonomous features may be driving us in that direction.”

How soon might we see a system that combines biometrics and telemetry to manage workload? Alan Hall, a Ford spokesman, said in e-mail, “We have not explicitly stated when you could see the workload detection system in a car, but as a project in the research phase, the earliest time frame would be three to five years.”

Ford, of course, may not be first to market with workload management. “All automakers are working at different levels in this area,” Mr. Reimer said. “And there’s a knowledge that first to market wins.”
174 2013-04-07 Just how will you find these kindred spirits? Top conferences don’t just offer lectures and workshops: there are also morning jogs, field trips and dinners. “It’s like the Club Med of the intellectual,” said Rachel Shechtman, the founder of Story, a boutique. Ms. Shechtman has attended conferences like TED, PopTech and Gel (Good Experience Live) for business and in the process has also met some of her closest friends. “There’s so much low-hanging fruit,” she said recently while on her way to speak about the future of retailing at TEDxHollywood, “that even if you are an introvert both the circumstance and the content of the conference allow for easy dialogue.”

Where that might lead, one never knows: and her husband, Marc Mezvinsky, met as teenagers at a Renaissance Weekend, the multigenerational ideas festival. And though they are one of the more high-profile conference love connections, they are part of a larger club. It’s no secret that conferences are informal places for romance.

Dan Gould, 35, who has attended Renaissance Weekends, TED, EG (Entertainment Gathering) and a number of other conferences said they are self-selecting for people who have big ideas and want to change the world.

“You’re not going to easily find someone like that on OkCupid or in a bar,” he said. “You have people who have similar values and who care about the same sorts of things.”

Mr. Gould, a founder of the video sharing site Chill.com, had heard of couples who met at one conference or another, but he never gave it much thought — until he met a woman at TED. They happened to be seated near each other during a talk and, as is common at TED, they continued to bump into each other throughout the four-day conference.

He invited the woman, Marina Kim, 29, to dinner with his friends at a Brazilian restaurant. Turns out, she’d lived in for a while and taught him a thing or two about caipirinhas. At the end of the conference, he drove her to the airport. He didn’t think a relationship was in the cards: he lives in ; she lives in , D.C. Yet they kept in touch, meeting up in cities like , Washington and and, eventually, dating. Today, Ms. Kim splits her time between Los Angeles and Washington and — this just in — Mr. Gould said, “Once I get a ring custom designed, I’m planning to ask her to marry me.” (Ms. Kim, consider the question popped.)

Not everyone falls in love. But many delight in trying. At SXSW Interactive you might spend the morning chatting with someone about coding or crowd funding and, hours later, be re-enacting the “Oh, Lover Boy” scene from

As Kathryn Irwin, who first attended SXSW in 1994 and hasn’t missed a year since 2000, put it: “There’s been some babies, there’s been a lot of dating, and a lot of hooking up.” Not necessarily in that order. After splitting with her husband in 2009, she too jumped into the SXSW dating pool. “I was like ‘Oh my gosh, there’s so many beautiful men,’ ” she said.

The best conferences for meeting people have a lot of attendees and a lot going on, both within and beyond the walls of a convention center. In fact, experienced conferencegoers often contend that the best connections are made not during lectures and workshops, but rather in hallways, on shuttle buses and in clubs around town. At SXSW last month there were group runs and yoga classes. There were bikes you could borrow free of charge to explore the city. There were cocktail hours in bars and tents and meet-ups for enthusiasts of typography, photography and space exploration. A food-truck park ensured that favorite local meals were within walking distance of the convention center.

Great conferences also have compelling lectures, making it impossible for strangers not to turn to one another and compare notes, say, on TED talks like Dan Pink (on the science of motivation) and the musician Amanda Palmer (on how artists can be funded by fans) or SXSW sessions like “ on the Future,” “The New Golden Age of Human Spaceflight,” “The Future of Porn” (an obvious conversation starter).

Of the three branches of SXSW (Music, Film, Interactive), in Austin, Ms. Irwin and other veterans I spoke with think Interactive, which lasts five days, is best for meeting people. Music is a clique, Ms. Irwin cautioned, and Film can be, too. Interactive, on the other hand — where most people are in their 20s and 30s according to a survey of attendees — is lovingly referred to as nerd spring break. And it has become more popular with each passing year: 30,621 people attended this year, up from 10,741 in 2009. More than 44 percent of this year’s attendees defined themselves as single in the survey. “Interactive is definitely a more solo group,” said Ms. Irwin, who worked in accounting before becoming a programmer for SXSW Interactive. “And they’re most likely to network.”

Sometimes that happens before the conference even begins. For instance, in January, SXSW has organized mixers in San Francisco and New York for people who plan to attend: New Yorkers can meet fellow New Yorkers long before they arrive in Austin (and perhaps even save on costs by making plans to share cabs or rooms).

The networking continues at the airport. On any nonstop flight to a conference city a fellow passenger is bound to ask you (as one asked me) if you’re attending. Your seatmate is probably going, too (mine was). And when at last you arrive and sit down in a ballroom or exhibition hall, the stranger beside you is likely to ask what you do or where you’re from or why you’ve chosen to listen to a lecture about digital teleportation. SXSW goes a step further, offering meet-ups for “newbies” to facilitate friendships and teach conference first-timers how to survive the overwhelming number of panels and parties.

One new mixer, SXsingle, is an attempt by Ms. Irwin to formalize the dating scene there. Promoted with the maxim “#SXsingle it’s not just a hashtag, it’s a lifestyle,” the event took place in what felt like a cozy bar but was really the storefront of an advertising agency on East Sixth Street. Minutes after it began, the space was at capacity and a few latecomers had to wait outside. Beneath white Christmas lights, men and women from their 20s to 40s were chatting and sipping free beer and wine. Among them was Charlie Nox, the master of ceremonies and a San Francisco dating coach with a mop of dark hair. Asked how to make the most of traveling solo, particularly if travelers are not quite comfortable in their own skin, she replied: “Rock your awkward.”

Translation: radical self-acceptance. Or, as Ms. Irwin explained, at a conference with self-declared geeks, you need not worry about being one. Rather, you might just find the perfect geek for you. Ms. Irwin, who is tall, blond and has a calling card with a photograph of her legs in mid-calf boots and the words, “We met at SXSW,” also describes herself as awkward — until she has a drink. Indeed, she recalled the previous evening in which after a cocktail she ended up walking the streets of Austin rapping the song “Paul Revere.” (Incidentally that sort of thing doesn’t raise eyebrows at SXSW, where over 10 minutes I saw someone dressed as a mouse, a shirtless man in a cape, and former Vice President Al Gore.)

Ms. Irwin’s plans for SXsingle go beyond her own Saturday night ambitions, however. “I hope that it will start to create its own movement,” she said. Her goal? To allow SXSW attendees to meet and flirt online through the festival’s social networking site even before they arrive in Austin.

A Conference for Every Taste (and Budget)

If SXSW Interactive doesn’t inspire you to book a flight, there are plenty of other options that might. Whatever your passion — politics, the environment, wine, design, anime — chances are there’s a conference and a city that will intrigue you. Some, though, are more costly and difficult to attend than others, two reasons they have been called elitist.

The most exclusive and high profile conferences, like Aspen Ideas Festival where past speakers have included ; , a former Israeli prime minister; and Amy Chua, the author of “Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother,” tend to cost about the same as a cruise: $1,500 to $3,000. (Early registration for SXSW Interactive this year was $695 — much less than other major conferences.) Tickets sell out fast. And don’t even think about reserving a hotel room at the last minute.

At the top of the conference spectrum, otherwise known as the You’re-Never-Ever-Going category, is the ’s annual meeting in Davos, . To attend, you must be a member of the forum and even then the base price of admission (membership plus the entrance fee) is upward of $70,000, as Andrew Ross Sorkin reported in an article a couple of years ago.

TED, which is $7,500 a person, might seem affordable by comparison, though you cannot simply buy your way in. Would-be attendees must be invited or submit an application with answers to questions like “If a friend were to describe your accomplishments in up to three sentences, what would he or she say?” and “Can you share a memorable anecdote from your life that will give us a further sense of what makes you tick?” Applicants must also provide references.

There are ways, though, to visit cities around the world and to get the flavor of pricier conferences without emptying your bank account. TED, for instance, has spawned TEDx, conferences organized by local communities in , , and the Americas that are free or have a nominal charge (a map and list of events is at ). And some invitation-only conferences — like the DLD (Digital-Life-Design) conference about digitization, science and culture in — allow people to apply for a spot.

Many conferences don’t require invitations, though. And while they may not be as slick as those that do, they’re intimate, diverse and are often held in the same cities as mainstream forums.

Take BIL — the everyman’s TED. It’s been referred to as an “unconference” (it’s more like a gathering of interesting people than a program of speakers), and as its organizers explain on the Web site, it’s a “play off of the formal and elite approach that TED employed to share ideas.” BIL, which like TED took place in Long Beach, Calif., this year, doesn’t technically stand for anything, though it’s a wink at “Bill & Ted’s Excellent Adventure.” Tickets were $20 for those registered early.

Niche conferences are another option. One of the largest, New York Comic Con, is in a major tourist destination: Manhattan. The city can be intimidating for first-timers, but if you want to come, and come solo, a conference can be a good anchor. Why rub elbows with venture capitalists when you can hang out with the illustrators of Wonder Woman and Batman (Oct. 10 through 13; $85 for a four-days)? Last year, more than 116,000 people attended.

If comics, games, science fiction and fantasy are your bailiwick but you prefer sand and sun to bagels and Broadway, you might want to visit the West Coast for Comic-Con International: San Diego and Comikaze Expo in Los Angeles, the official convention of , comic book writer and a former Marvel Comics executive.

Longing for Paris or ? Consider LeWeb, one of the largest Internet and innovation conferences in , taking place in London on June 5 and 6 (£990 until April 17; £1,590 thereafter, about $1,470 and $2,360 at $1.48 to the pound) and in Paris Dec. 10 through 12 (2,390 euros, about $2,998 at $1.24 to the euro). Past speakers have included Sean Parker, the first president of Facebook and a founder of Napster and Plaxo; Eric Schmidt, the executive chairman of ; and Kevin Systrom, the chief executive of . Last year, there were some 5,000 people from more than 80 countries at the London and Paris sessions combined. (For an idea of what LeWeb is like, you can check out video footage from last year’s conferences at Paris12.leweb.co.)

Anywhere you attend a conference as a solo traveler you’re bound to discover a city in ways you might not have expected, and to meet some wild, interesting people while you’re at it. That is, if you follow this advice: look up from your cellphone.

“Nobody’s fooled,” said Ms. Nox, the dating coach. “We all know you’re not getting an important work e-mail. It looks more confident to stand there and be open to an interaction. It’s amazing how receptive people are to meeting someone new.”

There’s no shortage of compelling cities and conferences, but how to find the best ones for you? Word of mouth is invaluable. And if you register for one conference, your fellow attendees will be able to recommend others in the same vein. On the Web, you can browse Lanyrd.com, which is essentially a social networking site that enables users to discover conferences (by topic or date) and to see which ones their friends plan to attend. Another site, Eventbrite.com, is typically used to register for or to sell tickets to events, but it can also be used to search for conferences (just click on the “find events” link and then search for “conference”).

It’s impossible to provide a complete list here, but to help you get started, here’s a sampling of conferences large and small, near and far, not discussed in depth in the article.

Do Lectures Have a great idea that you want to turn into a business? This conference in Fforest, West Wales, aims to help participants do just that with talks from entrepreneurs during the day and camping under the stars at night. Information: dolectures.com/the-event.

EG (Entertainment Gathering) This media, technology, entertainment and education confab in Monterey, Calif. is limited to 300 people and this year will include speakers with job titles like cyber illusionist, wood carver, geneticist and wildlife photographer. Information: the-eg.com.

Gel (Good Experience Live) Organized by Creative Good, a consulting firm specializing in customer experience, this New York gathering is for those striving to create good experiences in “tech, business, and the world.” Information: gelconference.com.

National Conference on LGBT Equality: Creating Change An annual meeting of activists and leaders that includes workshops, film screenings and caucuses (next year’s conference will be in Houston). Information: creatingchange.org.

99U Conference Like the popular Web site with which it’s associated (99U.com), this New York conference focuses on how to go from an idea to the execution of an idea with classes and talks by authors and entrepreneurs like Seth Godin, and designers like Stefan Sagmeister, who has worked with clients as varied as Rolling Stones and the Guggenheim Museum. Information: 99u.com/conference.

The Story A one-day conference in London about (what else?) the art of storytelling. Information: thestory.org.uk.

WebVisions Taking place a few times a year in different cities — Portland, New York, Barcelona, Chicago — explores the future of Web and mobile design and content creation. Information: webvisionsevent.com.

Wisdom 2.0 San Francisco is a fitting place for this conference about learning how to be connected through technology yet in ways that make us healthy, effective at work and useful to the wider world. Information: wisdom2summit.com.
175 2013-04-07 THE EPIC UPS AND DOWNS OF PETER GELB

For those of us opera lovers not often able to visit New York City to attend the Met, we are most thankful for Peter Gelb’s vision. “Live in HD” broadcasts are without doubt the best thing since sliced bread. SIMON ROSENBLUM, Toronto

Those opposed to new productions under Gelb, the Met’s general manager, are only nostalgic for producers who respect the intentions of the composers. Gelb says that his “goal is to hire brilliant directors whose productions are entirely their vision, and [his] job is to support them.” This approach means there is no artistic leadership at the top. The goal of a production should be to enlighten the composer’s intentions, not to submerge them beneath a director’s vision. FRANKLIN BLOOMER, Riverside, Conn.

Now I understand. Peter Gelb, a college dropout, didn’t take his history, geography or literature courses. Thus he put Gounod’s “Faust” where J. Robert Oppenheimer belongs because he doesn’t seem to know the difference between Dr. Atomic and Dr. Faustus. Perhaps he hasn’t read Hugo’s work on which “Rigoletto” is based, so he confuses “Le Roi S’Amuse” with Las Vegas. BEATRICE WILLIAMS-RUDE, New York

I’m grateful to Gelb for bringing in enthusiastic young audience members, who were there in full force for “Otello” recently. It thrilled me to see them among the rest of us “oldies.” I say more power to him. JEANNE OMMERLE, New York, posted on nytimes.com

The most striking aspect of your article about Kilian Jornet, arguably the world’s best endurance athlete, was the description of his ability as a small child, which suggests that part of his gift is a fortunate genetic variant. Years ago, the Finnish cross-country skier Eero Antero Mäntyranta won seven medals over the course of three Winter Olympics. It was later determined that he carried a rare mutation resulting in an increase in red-blood-cell production. Scientists are discovering more genetic factors that play a role in athletics; it could be said that taking performance-enhancing drugs simply levels the playing field between the mere mortals and their more genetically endowed competitors. Since I do not endorse the use of performance-enhancing drugs, a more “natural” approach might be to sponsor events where the Kilian Jornets of the world are asked to compete by carrying extra weight strapped to their backs. H. M. LACHMAN, M.D., Departments of Psychiatry and Genetics, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx

It’s flattering to read that certain Christians find our Jewish practices so beautiful as to adopt them for themselves. But bar mitzvahs are embedded in a culture where the Torah, the Hebrew language, the tallit and religious obligations are knitted together with global and intergenerational significance. If Christian bar mitzvahs are another fad, like Christian theme parks, Christian rock and the flirtation with kabbalah, then they’re nothing more than a mash-up of cultural memes that cheapen their meaning for everyone. RON MEYERS, New York
176 2013-04-07 Abe Schoener’s quest to thrill, infuriate and baffle oenophiles....
177 2013-04-07 This Is Who Rules the Bars of New York
178 2013-04-07 This Is Who Rules the Bars of New York
179 2013-04-07 NEMIROFF--David G.,69, retired psychologist, died suddenly March 23 after a long struggle with Parkinson's Disease at Hebrew Rehabilitation Center, Roslindale, MA. Predeceased by his wife, Helene; survived by his son, Larry, his sisters Sandra, Ju...
180 2013-04-07 Ms. McCormick demanded to fight on equal terms with men. She fought large bulls and always on foot, rather than on horseback. Over the years she was gored six times. The worst episode was in September 1954 in Ciudad Acuña, the Mexican sister city of Del Rio, Tex., across the Rio Grande. Newspaper accounts say she turned her back while she was performing a pass and the bull caught her in the thigh.

“The horn went right up my stomach,” she told The Los Angeles Times in 1989. “The bull carried me around the ring for a minute, impaled on his horns.”

“They gave me the last rites there,” she recalled. “The doctor said, ‘Carry her across the border and let her die in her own country.’ ”

As it happened, after living in California for more than 40 years and then moving back to Texas, she did die in Del Rio, in a nursing home, said a cousin, Brent McCormick.

But that was just one circle completed. In her last years, she was saved from pennilessness through a chain of events that could be traced to that day in 1954 when a bull almost killed her.

Patricia Lee McCormick was born in St. Louis on Nov. 18, 1929. She was introduced to bullfighting as a 7-year-old during a family vacation to Mexico City. For months afterward she staged mock bullfights in her yard, using neighborhood children as substitutes for bulls.

When she was 13 her family moved to West Texas, where her father was chief engineer at Cosden Petroleum in Big Spring. After graduating from high school, she attended what was then Texas Western College in El Paso, where she studied art and music.

Once there, she began crossing the border into Juárez, where she rediscovered the bulls. She watched fights at the Plaza de Toros and became a student of the form, reading Spanish bullfighting magazines and practicing technique in her dorm room.

“I had a World War I blanket my dad had given to me to keep warm, and I used that as my cape,” Ms. McCormick said in a 2007 documentary film, “The Texas Torera.”

She quit college for bullfighting, persuading Alejandro del Hierro, a retired matador, to be her mentor, and made her bullfighting debut on Sept. 9, 1951, in Juárez.

The Big Spring Daily Herald reported afterward that a bull trampled her twice and tossed her with its horns before she plunged the estoque between its shoulders. The crowd showered her with roses, and the judges awarded her the bull’s ear, signifying a superior performance.

After killing the animal, Ms. McCormick, streaked in blood, knelt down and stroked its head. “I loved the brave bull,” she later wrote in “Lady Bullfighter,” her memoir.

Over the next year she honed her skills in the Mexican minor leagues, and in 1952 she was the first American woman invited to join Mexico’s matador union.

Ms. McCormick fought her last bull in San Antonio in 1962 and then made her way to California, where she focused on her artwork, mainly line drawings and watercolors. Her favorite subjects were horses and bullfighting scenes. She lived in Pasadena and Pebble Beach and rarely mentioned her past. For a number of years she worked as a secretary at the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena.

Returning to Texas in the early 2000s, she settled in Midland. It was there, according to friends, that she fell into financial trouble and nearly lost her apartment. Then Gary Humphreys, the owner of a Del Rio gun shop, intervened.

Mr. Humphreys, it turned out, had a distant personal connection to Ms. McCormick. His mother’s best friend had been her nurse at the Del Rio hospital where she was taken after the near-fatal goring in 1954. He had been 9 years old at the time and a fan of hers, he said.

Decades later, after seeing an old poster of Ms. McCormick in Ciudad Acuña, Mr. Humphreys spent eight months searching for her. “Here was this legend who’d made such an impression on my childhood,” he said, “and she was about to go live in her car.”

Mr. Humphreys helped her financially and encouraged her to take advantage of her fame. But he also drew her mistrust. Ms. McCormick eventually sued Mr. Humphreys, accusing him of trying to benefit financially from her name. Mr. Humphreys settled out of court for an undisclosed amount.

Besides her cousin, Ms. McCormick leaves no survivors. She never married or had children.

After moving to Del Rio, Ms. McCormick enjoyed a small resurgence of celebrity. In 2006, Ciudad Acuña honored her at its annual Running las Vacas event. In 2007, the Heritage Museum of Big Spring mounted an exhibition on her life and career and invited her to demonstrate her cape work. People waited two hours in line to meet her.
181 2013-04-07 Ground Cover Over several chilly days in late March, the photographer Benjamin Lowy set out to walk across Brooklyn to document the change in seasons. Starting out in Dumbo, Lowy made his way to Vinegar Hill, Williamsburg and Greenpoint, then down...
182 2013-04-07 MCCRACKEN--Hugh C.,70, in New York on March 29, 2013. Session guitarist extra ordinaire, loving husband, son, father, grandfather and friend. Profoundly missed by wife Holly, children Scot, Jodi, Marc and Kim, mother, brother and sister, grandchil...
183 2013-04-07 . . . going behind the counter at the   vegan joint   that portends the fast-food industry&#x27;s future (Page 26), eavesdropping on a butcher who thinks we don&#x2019;t eat enough   pig&#x2019;s head   (Page 36),peering into the kitchen when the ...
184 2013-04-07 &#xA0;&#xa;   &#xa;The European Commission has recently proposed a number of measures that would strengthen the rights that passengers have while flying in the European Union. The rules would ensure that travelers have better information, treatmen...
185 2013-04-08 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
186 2013-04-08 As more trading takes place away from the public exchanges, regulators have been examining whether so-called dark pools create an uneven investment playing field....
187 2013-04-08 Microsoft is planning to reveal details about its new Xbox video game console at an event in May, as the games industry prepares for a new generation of hardware that it hopes will lift sales....
188 2013-04-08 The Senate on Monday confirmed Mary Jo White to lead the Securities and Exchange Commission, dismissing concerns about her close ties to the Wall Street banks she will now oversee....
189 2013-04-08 The imprecise rules governing insider trading are an ineffective means to regulate how political intelligence firms operate, the author writes....
190 2013-04-08 Who actually got let off the hook?...
191 2013-04-08 Sometimes, the phone rings with an entrepreneur whose business is on life support and who is looking for a last breath of life. Sometimes, I decline to help.,...
192 2013-04-08 Louisville topped Michigan, 82-76, and Rick Pitino became the first coach to win a national title at two schools. Mike Huguenin and other Times reporters provide highlights and analysis of the championship game....
193 2013-04-08 Dozens of interactive kiosks are to be installed in 16 subway stations in the next few months, designed to help commuters navigate the system....
194 2013-04-08 Sunday’s episode raises questions about Peggy’s new role, whether Megan is a victim or the control in an experiment, and why Don is back to his old adulterous ways....
195 2013-04-08 As word of Margaret Thatcher’s death spread from Britain, contradictory adjectival couples were enlisted around the globe to describe her. We want your take....
196 2013-04-08 Markets are right, except when they aren’t....
197 2013-04-08 Clean Power Finance, an online platform that provides software and financial services to solar professionals and investors, has raised a fresh $37 million, in a sign that enthusiasm for the solar sector has not dimmed entirely....
198 2013-04-08 India may have conducted its first nuclear test to counter an economic slowdown and other revelations....
199 2013-04-08 A group of big tech companies has enlisted the Linux Foundation to manage the creation of an open source version of a hot trend in their business, software-defined networking. At first glance, the project competes with the technologies they’ve s...
200 2013-04-08 The jobs report is a “punch in the gut.” Once again, the economy’s first-half momentum seems to be flagging. Some tips for keeping work-from-home employees accountable. Do you support paid sick leave?...
201 2013-04-08 Tottenham drew, 2-2, with Everton and dropped to fourth in the Premier League.

¶ Nine-man Atlético Madrid sputtered to a 0-0 draw at Getafe in Spain’s top league and fell further behind Real Madrid in the race for second place.

¶ Mario Balotelli was caught smoking a cigarette in the bathroom on a train carrying his A.C. Milan squad to a game against Fiorentina. The club vice president Adriano Galliani said Balotelli would be fined. Coaches have been trying to get Balotelli to quit smoking for years, and the practice is banned on Italian trains.

Balotelli then picked up a yellow card in a 2-2 draw with Fiorentina, which rules him out of next weekend’s showdown with Napoli, the team Milan is trying to catch for second place in Serie A.
202 2013-04-08 Martin Laird tied the course record with a nine-under-par 63, holding off Rory McIlroy to earn his first PGA win in more than two years, at the Texas Open in San Antonio. Laird posted a bogey-free round to finish 14 under. McIlroy posted a 66 to finish two shots back, in second — his best finish of the year.
203 2013-04-08 Novak Djokovic gave Serbia an insurmountable 3-1 lead over the United States with a 7-5, 6-7 (4), 6-1, 6-0 win over Sam Querrey in a Davis Cup quarterfinal in Boise, Idaho. But Djokovic twisted his right ankle while hitting a forehand and said, “One hour, one hour and a half after the end of the match, all I can say is, it doesn’t look good.” Serbia advanced to a semifinal with Canada.
204 2013-04-08 Vin Farrell joined Havas Worldwide, New York, part of the Havas Creative unit of Havas, in a new post, global chief content officer. He had been senior vice president for creative operations at R/GA, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Hudson Valley Tourism, which seeks to draw visitors and businesses to Columbia, Orange, Putnam, Rensselaer and six other counties north of New York City, selected Co-Communications as its agency of record, working with Harquin Graphics, Pelham, N.Y., a branding agency. Billings have not been determined. Co-Communications, which has offices in Mount Kisco, N.Y., and Hartford, Conn., is taking over the account from the First Brain Media Group, Wyckoff, N.J.

Jon Krevolin joined 360i, New York, part of Dentsu, as a group creative director. He had most recently been a senior vice president and senior creative director at BBDO New York, part of the BBDO North America division of BBDO Worldwide, which is part of the Omnicom Group.

Tim Letscher joined Colle & McVoy, Minneapolis, part of MDC Partners, in a new post, director for digital strategy and analytics. He had most recently been senior strategist for brand activation at Carmichael Lynch, Minneapolis, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Clive Maclean joined Cenergy, East Aurora, N.Y., in a new post, executive vice president. He had most recently been chief executive at Havas 4D, Chicago, part of the Havas Worldwide division of Havas Creative, which is owned by Havas.

Nic Owen joined the Amsterdam office of 72andSunny, part of MDC Partners, in a new post, managing director. He had been head of account management at Anomaly New York, part of the Anomaly unit of MDC.

Christian Parkes joined Myspace, Los Angeles, in a new post, vice president for global marketing. He had been global senior director for marketing at Levi Strauss & Company, San Francisco.

Ryan Peck and Scott O’Leary joined Carmichael Lynch, Minneapolis, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as creative directors. They had been creative directors at Fallon Worldwide, Minneapolis, part of the Publicis Groupe.

Nicole Phillips joined Switch, St. Louis, in a new post, director for strategic planning and business development. She had most recently been senior vice president for branding and insights at Fleishman-Hillard, part of the Omnicom Group.

Fraser Riddell, global chief business development officer at MediaCom Worldwide, New York, part of the GroupM unit of WPP, was named global chief client officer, leading a new division, named MediaCom Beyond Borders, that will specialize in working for international advertisers based in the United States. Toby Jenner, chief operating officer for the MediaCom Asia-Pacific region, based in Singapore, will move to New York and succeed Mr. Riddell as global chief business development officer.

Rosetta, Princeton, N.J., part of the Publicis Groupe, hired four partners for its technology and telecommunications practice. They are Frank Garavaglia, who will be based in the agency’s San Francisco office; Bill Melton, based in the Los Angeles office; Mike Norris, based in the San Jose, Calif., office; and Rachel Rapaport, also based in San Francisco.

Zach Servideo joined the Mix Agency, San Francisco, as a principal, responsible for day-to-day operations with Vanessa Camones, chief executive, and leading the agency’s expansion into Southern California with the opening of an office in Los Angeles. Mr. Servideo had most recently been a consultant and before that worked for public relations agencies like Shift Communications.

Mark Simmons joined Ignited, El Segundo, Calif., in a new post, senior vice president for strategy and brand development. He had most recently run his own consultancy, Mark Simmons Inc.

Matthew Sweeney joined Crisp Media, New York, in a new post, senior vice president and managing director. He has previously worked at companies that include Pixalate, Geeknet and Ziff-Davis.

Webster Bank, Waterbury, Conn., expanded its relationship with SapientNitro, Boston, part of Sapient, by naming SapientNitro as its marketing agency of record. Billings were not disclosed. The assignment had previously been handled by Kelliher Samets Volk. Webster Bank already works with SapientNitro on tasks that include integrated interactive marketing and digital strategy.
205 2013-04-08 Yet over several weeks of testimony it has become clear that Judge Scheindlin, who sits in Federal District Court in Manhattan and will be deciding the case in place of a jury, is also quite interested in what happened after people were stopped.

As lawyers have questioned witnesses, Judge Scheindlin has frequently jumped in with questions that seem directed at cataloging the precise nature of the frisking, and particularly, whether they expanded into searches of the plaintiffs’ pockets.

When one witness testified that his jacket pockets were searched, Judge Scheindlin wanted to know whether those pockets were on the outside or inside of the jacket. She wanted to know whether Mr. Peart’s sweatshirt contained pockets. (It did, but he could not remember whether they were searched.)

When a woman testified about being stopped on her way to a bank, Judge Scheindlin sought details about the police search of her shoulder bag.

“Did there come a time when the police officers searched the bag by going through the lining?” she asked.

In pursuing this line of questioning, Judge Scheindlin is also expanding the constitutional focus of the trial to include the other aspect of the Fourth Amendment at issue: the reasonableness of the police search, rather than just the reasonableness of the police’s initial detention of the person.

As a matter of law, the police are allowed to frisk for their safety when they have stopped someone whom they reasonably suspect of engaging in criminal activity and, in addition, is thought to be carrying a concealed weapon. In a landmark 1968 decision recognizing the right of police officers to conduct stop-and-frisks, the Supreme Court held that frisking was for “the protection of the police officer and others nearby.” The court also said that “it must therefore be confined in scope to an intrusion reasonably designed to discover guns, knives, clubs, or other instruments for the assault of the police officer.”

Judge Scheindlin has directed similar questions toward officers, asking them about the circumstances that led them to frisk a person in the first place — slightly more than half the recorded street stops in New York City result in frisking — and what the frisking entailed.

“Could you explain how you conducted the frisk?” Judge Scheindlin asked one officer.

“I patted the outside part of his, of his clothing, ma’am,” the officer, Eric Hernandez, responded, testifying about a 2008 stop for suspected burglary in the Bronx.

In the landmark 1968 decision, in Terry v. Ohio, the Supreme Court observed that frisking, even when limited to a pat-down, was far more than a “petty indignity” unworthy of Fourth Amendment protection. Rather, the court found, it “is a serious intrusion upon the sanctity of the person, which may inflict great indignity and arouse strong resentment, and it is not to be undertaken lightly.”

Testimony from the trial is underscoring just how intrusive that experience can be from the perspective of the person being frisked. Mr. Peart, for instance, testified about an earlier stop that had led to his being ordered to the ground at gunpoint. He struggled for words to describe what happened next: “They patted over my basketball shorts and I was touched.”

“You could feel them touching you in the groin area?” Judge Scheindlin asked, seeking clarification and supplying the words. She later asked whether the frisk had extended “in the back, too, in the buttocks?” It had, Mr. Peart said.

While evidence regarding frisking suggested it had been focused on finding a firearm, other frisking described at the trial might have gone beyond what was necessary to conduct a search for weapons. During the stop of Mr. Peart on his way to the bodega, he was handcuffed and placed in a police car. There, an officer asked him if he had marijuana, took off his sneakers and patted down his socks, before releasing him, Mr. Peart testified. Courts have generally found that an officer’s frisking can expand into a search of a suspect’s pockets only if the pat-down reveals the presence of a weapon or some other contraband that the officer was able to immediately identify simply by patting it.

Indeed, in a previous stop-and frisk lawsuit decided in January, Judge Scheindlin’s opinion made a point of noting that in several of the contested stop-and-frisks, “the officer violated the Fourth Amendment by exceeding the constitutionally permissible bounds of a frisk.”

That case, Ligon v. City of New York, dealt only with stops outside certain residential buildings in the Bronx. Although the Ligon case was far smaller in scope than the current lawsuit, Judge Scheindlin’s decision in the earlier case appears to offer a blueprint of her thinking about the Fourth Amendment issues surrounding frisking.
206 2013-04-08 For Ms. Smedinghoff, the Foreign Service was a calling, her parents, Tom and Mary Beth Smedinghoff, said in a statement. Afghanistan was her second deployment, an assignment for which she had volunteered after a tour in Caracas, Venezuela. She died, her parents said, doing a job she thought must be done.

“She particularly enjoyed the opportunity to work directly with the Afghan people and was always looking for opportunities to reach out and help to make a difference in the lives of those living in a country ravaged by war,” they said. “We are consoled knowing that she was doing what she loved, and that she was serving her country by helping to make a positive difference in the world.”

Gov. Pat Quinn of Illinois issued a statement on Sunday praising Ms. Smedinghoff for having lived a “purposeful life.”

“Only 25 years old, this brave young woman knew social justice was her calling, and selflessly lost her life while serving others in a war-torn country,” the governor said. “She was devoted to protecting America and improving the lives of others.”

Ms. Smedinghoff was the first American diplomat to be killed on the job since Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens and three others were killed last Sept. 11 in an attack on a United States diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya.

Sam Hopkins, a lawyer and a friend of Ms. Smedinghoff’s from her college days, described her as a “very focused very disciplined and very calm” woman who had breezed through a panoply of examinations to enter the Foreign Service at an unusually young age. On her first posting to Caracas, he said, she expressed strong desire to leave the embassy compound and plunge into the city’s gritty, often dangerous streets.

“She said she wanted to get a car and drive around,” Mr. Hopkins said. “She had no fear.”

As a public diplomacy officer, Ms. Smedinghoff was on the front lines of an effort to move Afghanistan beyond its decades-long struggle with war and oppression to a place where women might walk openly in the streets and where children, including young girls, might go to school.

It is a job fraught with dangers and frustrations that have been compounded as the United States, along with its NATO allies, has shrunk its military footprint. Bases have been scaled back and ground and air transports reduced, meaning less security for development work.

With most American and NATO troops preparing to leave Afghanistan by the end of 2014, the prospects for continued civilian aid of the kind Ms. Smedinghoff was helping to provide are now in doubt.

Yet in an emotional homage on Sunday, Secretary of State John Kerry held up Ms. Smedinghoff’s work as an example of the importance of the continued American effort in Afghanistan and elsewhere in the face of “cowardice” and “nihilism.”

“A brave American was determined to brighten the light of learning through books written in the native tongue of the students that she had never met, but whom she felt compelled to help,” Mr. Kerry said in Istanbul, where he is on a diplomatic trip. “And she was met by cowardly terrorists determined to bring darkness and death to total strangers.”
207 2013-04-08 The debate about immigration reform has properly focused on giving the 11 million unauthorized immigrants in America a shot at citizenship. But broad reform should also include improvements to employment-based visas and green cards that make it possible to attract and keep highly skilled workers in technology, medical and educational fields, among others.

These individuals and their families often languish in a kind of immigration purgatory for a decade or more as they apply to become permanent residents and, eventually, citizens. Many are effectively required to stay with one employer for fear that they will lose their place in line for a green card. This employment trap can deprive the broader economy of their abilities and allows some companies to pay these workers below-market salaries.

There have been various proposals to improve the system, including measures that would increase the current limit of 85,000 first-time visas under the popular H-1B category used by skilled professionals. (That cap has already been reached for this year.) Others have suggested “stapling” a green card to the degrees of graduate students studying science, technology, engineering and math. And some have pushed for a start-up visa that would help potential entrepreneurs. Here are some sensible changes that should be part of comprehensive reform:

¶Instead of hard caps for work visas, Congress should use flexible limits that are adjusted based on economic conditions, allowing more immigration when there is a shortage of skilled workers. Policy makers should consider creating an advisory commission, as proposed by the Migration Policy Institute, that would examine the limit every year or two. In the past, lawmakers have raised or lowered the limit on H-1B visas, which stood at 195,000 from 2001 to 2003, in response to lobbying by technology companies or labor groups.

¶People admitted on work visas should be allowed to change employers after a probationary period of 12 months without losing their place in line for permanent status. This would deal with complaints of discriminatory pay practices. Also, spouses of skilled immigrants should be allowed to work if they choose; it makes no sense to waste their skills by forcing them to stay home.

¶The per-country limits that restrict immigrants from any one country to 7 percent of the 140,000 employer-sponsored green cards issued annually should be reviewed, and perhaps eliminated. These restrictions, which were first put in place in 1965 to replace racial quotas, create a green card bottleneck for workers from populous countries like India, China and Mexico.

Not every immigrant who comes on a work visa wants to settle here, and some will leave after getting a few years of work experience. But rational immigration policy should make it easier for skilled and hard-working immigrants to stay and contribute to this country.
208 2013-04-08 Ian Poulter, the English Ryder Cup star who beat out the likes of Ernie Els and Phil Mickelson to win a World Golf Championships event in China last November, said: “We get to spend a bit of time with a lot of the juniors that are coming through from their junior programs and we see it. We’ve seen it already in the last couple of years, and we continue to see that there’s more and more that swing it fantastic. Their work ethic is incredible.

“They work very, very hard, and they’re being fine-tuned to play golf. I’m not sure if it’s for the Olympics or what they’re playing for, but there are lots of them and they’re working very hard. So if I do my math, I think it’s only a couple of years away before we see someone very special.”

The women’s game already has a constellation of Asian stars. Led by Se Ri Pak, a five-time major winner, 38 South Koreans earned their L.P.G.A. Tour playing privileges in 2013. Last year, Shanshan Feng, 23, became the first golfer from China to win a major, at the L.P.G.A. Championship, and in recent years, Yani Tseng of Taiwain and Ai Miyazato of Japan have held the No. 1 ranking.

Feng is from the same hometown, Guangzhou, as Guan, who was introduced to the game by his father, Guan Han Wen, at age 4. Over the years, she said, she has seen quite a bit of him on the practice range.

“I could always tell he was really talented,” Feng said. “He has a very nice swing, he hits the ball very well, he has a very good short game.”

Guan does not yet possess the strength to drive the ball far. He averages around 250 yards off the tee, which means he will be using longer clubs for his shots into Augusta National’s small, fast greens. If he hopes to make the cut, his short game will have to be very good.

He stamped his ticket to the Masters with his play around the greens. On the final day of the Asia-Pacific Amateur Championship, Guan arrived at the 18th hole at Amata Spring Country Club in Thailand with a one-stroke lead over Pan Cheng-tsung of Taiwan, a sophomore at the University of Washington. He was unable to reach the par 4 in two shots, but chipped within 5 feet and made the putt.

Like American-born youngsters, Guan was drawn to the game by the wizardry of Woods, a 14-time major winner. One of his earliest memories of watching golf on television, Guan said, is of Woods’s last Masters victory, in 2005. On his way to beating Chris DiMarco in a playoff, Woods holed a chip shot on the par-3 16th that remains ingrained in Guan’s memory. The ball trickled down the hill like a tear and hung on the lip of the cup before dropping.

“That was the time I got to know the PGA Tour,” Guan said in an e-mail interview.

His parents were his first golfing influences. “I watched them play all the time, and my dad gave me a set of kid golf clubs to play when I was 3 or 4,” Guan said. “I enjoy the game so much and I have been doing it well since I took up the game.”

Though lacking length off the tee, he is not short on confidence. Guan, who was 490th in the world amateur rankings going into last year’s Asia-Pacific Amateur Championships, posted on Twitter after his one-shot victory, “I WANT to win the US Masters in Augusta.”

Later, in an interview with Golf Digest, Guan said: “I think I have a chance to make the cut. I beat Hideki Matsuyama in Thailand, and he’s made the cut twice. However, making the cut is not my target. I’m more concerned about what I’ll show the world. I like the proverb ‘Man proposes, God disposes.’ ”

Guan traveled to Georgia last month from his base in California to play a few practice rounds at Augusta National. At 14 years 6 months, he will be more than two years younger than the next-youngest Masters participant, Matteo Manassero of Italy, who was 16 years 11 months in 2010.

“My first impression when I first arrived into the entrance of Augusta National was that the grass was so much greener than other golf courses that I had been to,” he said. “Augusta National has a long history of famous golfers and matches between them. I am so excited to stand and play the course where so many famous golfers have made history.”

He said he planned to stay at Augusta National with the other amateurs, and arranged a practice round this week with Tom Watson, a two-time Masters champion whom he met while playing in the Australian Open last December.

“It’s frightening to think that he was born after I won my first Masters,” said Woods, who won the first of his green jackets in 1997. He laughed. “I mean, that’s just frightening.”

Woods, speaking last month after his victory at the Arnold Palmer Invitational, added: “The game has become global. There are more countries represented on the PGA Tour than ever before, and that’s not going to change. It’s only going to increase, and we’re going to have a lot of players from countries that traditionally haven’t been into golf that are going to start to play this game at a high level.”

At Bay Hill, the 83-year-old Palmer, a four-time winner at Augusta National, expressed reservations about Guan’s competing at the Masters.

“I’m not so sure that it isn’t more of a detriment than it is a plus for him,” he said. “I think that if he had a little more experience and a little more time to play the game and play in competition, that he might want to wait a little longer to attack something like Augusta.”

There is no time for waiting in China, where golf courses are cropping up faster than they can be permitted. In the early 1990s, when the PGA Tour traveled to Shenzhen for a World Cup event, there were roughly 40 courses. Nan, of Sports Illustrated China, estimated that as of last year, there were more than 580 18-hole courses.

“Golf is still in a developmental stage in China,” Guan said. “Therefore, it is not as popular as in the U.S. But I can see it getting more and more popular.”

Noting that Ye broke his record as the youngest player to qualify for a European Tour event, Guan said, “I believe in the future of golf in China.”

Feng’s victory at the L.P.G.A. Championship caused a few ripples of interest, she said, but nothing like the waves that Guan is very likely to generate simply by teeing it up at Augusta National.

“It doesn’t matter what he does this week, it’s going to leave a mark in history,” Feng said.

She added: “I hope people back home don’t give him too much pressure, which happened a little bit to Andy Zhang after the U.S. Open. I would say that if people don’t give him too much pressure, he can make more magic happen.”
209 2013-04-08 ¶United States Postal Service named McCann Erickson Worldwide, New York, part of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as agency of record, working with a sibling, the MRM Worldwide unit of the McCann Worldgroup. Spending was estimated at $95 million. The account had been handled by another Interpublic agency, Campbell Ewald, Warren, Mich.

¶Boar’s Head Provision Company, Sarasota, Fla., chose Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners, New York, part of MDC Partners, as its creative agency of record. Spending was estimated at $20 million. The account had been handled by Altschiller Associates, New York.

¶Esurance, San Francisco, part of Allstate, decided, after a review, to add a second agency to its media agency roster. Esurance spends almost $200 million each year to advertise in major media. Starcom, Chicago, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of the Publicis Groupe, will handle media buying in areas like local and national television and radio, which had been handled by Havas Media Direct, New York, part of the Havas Media division of Havas. Starcom will also take over media planning for television, radio, outdoor, print and digital advertising, which had been handled internally at Esurance. Havas Media Direct will continue to handle media planning and buying for direct response advertising.

¶Dale A. Adams, president and chief executive at the Diversified Agency Services division of the Omnicom Group, New York, was named chairman and chief executive, assuming the chairman’s post from Thomas L. Harrison, who was recently named chairman emeritus. Also, John C. Doolittle, chief financial officer of the division, assumes Mr. Adams’s duties as president while remaining chief financial officer.

¶Jacques Deregnaucourt joined Sam4Mobile, Paris, as general manager for the United States, leading a new office in New York. Mr. Deregnaucourt had been deputy chief executive at TF1 Publicite, Paris.
210 2013-04-08 “Most of what I know about myself, I have learned from playing Schumann,” the pianist Jonathan Biss has said. Mr. Biss has focused extensively on that composer this season, as curator of a series of 30 concerts collectively titled Schumann: Under the Influence.

Mr. Biss’s performance last week at Zankel Hall, with the excellent Elias String Quartet, featured a new string quintet by the young composer Timothy Andres. This engaging five-movement piece, which here received its New York premiere, takes an obscure reference from Schumann’s Fantasy Pieces (Op. 12) as its starting point. A four-note motif is reincarnated in “Canons & Fables,” the first movement of Mr. Andres’s piece; the jaunty phrase is repeated on solo violin and then morphed into a fugue before resurfacing in the piano.

Mr. Andres weaves intriguing sonorities throughout the work, with tremolos, eerie harmonics, rumbling piano figurations and an arching cello line creating the moodily primal sound world of the second movement, “Boulder Pushing.” The richly textured, melancholy “Teneramente” at times evoked Barber’s “Adagio.”

Mr. Biss and the Elias musicians have recorded quintets by Schumann and Dvorak for the Onyx label; that they are frequent partners was certainly apparent during this rewarding program. (They will also perform together on Wednesday, the finale of a three-part series at Zankel.)

Their collaboration proved particularly memorable in the gorgeous rendition of Schumann’s Piano Quartet, which concluded the evening, enhanced by Mr. Biss’s sensitive, elegant pianism. From the melancholy, brooding opening — which unfolded with poignant intensity here — to the final movement, their richly hued, passionate playing sounded both polished and spontaneous. Marie Bitlloch spun out the yearning cello melody of the third movement beautifully.

Although fluid and finely wrought the rendition of Mozart’s Piano Quartet in E flat, which opened the concert, proved less memorable than the rest of the program, which also included a superb rendition of Janacek’s String Quartet No. 2, “Intimate Letters.”
211 2013-04-08 The Kaesong complex is the last remaining major project of inter-Korean cooperation and a crucial test of whether North Korea was willing to sacrifice a lucrative source of hard current to push its political and military priorities.

“We believe this is a calculated move by the North,” Mr. Kim said during a meeting of security-related officials on Sunday. The North, he said, “may launch a provocation, such as missile launch,” around Wednesday, he said.

His comments were relayed by Kim Haing, a presidential spokeswoman.

“North Korea has been engaged in a so-called headline strategy,” Mr. Kim, the national security director, said, referring to an almost daily drumbeat of North Korean threats that has made newspaper headlines since early March.

North Korea was raising tensions in an effort to frighten and force the United States and South Korea to return to dialogue with possible concessions, Mr. Kim said. The pressure was also aimed at China and Russia to mediate on North Korea’s behalf.

“We see through their motive," he said. Although North Korea shows no signs of attempting a full-scale war, it will suffer damage many times more than we do if it launches even a localized provocation.”

South Korea “has no intention of attempting premature dialogue just because of a crisis,” Mr. Kim said, urging the North to ease tensions so dialogue can start.

Foreign embassies told to consider evacuating Pyongyang have dismissed the advisory.

A Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said on Sunday that the Chinese embassy in Pyongyang was operating normally, and urged the North to "thoroughly ensure the safety of Chinese embassy and consular personnel resident in North Korea." The Xinhua News Agency on Saturday quoted Foreign Minister Wang Yi as telling United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon that Beijing would “not allow trouble on China’s doorstep.”

Also on Sunday, Gen. Jung Seung-jo, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the South Korean military, postponed plans to meet with his American counterpart, Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, in Washington on April 16, military officials said. General Jung could not be away from South Korea amid the rising tension, the officials said.

South Korea’s military is on heightened alert after North Korean threats to strike the United States and its allies. North Korea has been angry over United Nations sanctions imposed on it for its February nuclear test and joint American-South Korean military drills.

Washington responded by flying nuclear-capable bombers over South Korea in training missions and moving two of the Navy’s missile-defense ships closer to the Korean Peninsula. It also planned to deploy a land-based missile-defense system to Guam later this month.
212 2013-04-08 PRICE--Selma Kaplan, Price Rahav Realty has lost its founder and its beacon of fast and brilliant business thinking, Selma K. Price. Through her guidance and generosity, Selma K. Price allowed the growth of our company, never ever forgetting, not ...
213 2013-04-08 PRICE--Selma Kaplan, Selma Kaplan Price passed away peacefully, on April 6, at the age of 103, at her home, in her granddaughter's arms. Selma is survived by three loving children, six grandchildren, and 14 great-grandchildren. Funeral services at...
214 2013-04-08 PRICE--Selma Kaplan, The Chelsmore Apartments Organization mourns the passing of its legendary founder, Selma K. Price. With her gift for language she coined the word Chelsmore for a building she daringly bought in Chelsea, Manhattan almost 60 yea...
215 2013-04-08 &#x201C;Shoot the first anti-advertising ad&#x201D; is the pitch for a contest sponsored by Adblock Plus, the popular software that whites out Web site advertisements. The winning 30- to 90-second video submission, Adblock Plus says, will receive ...
216 2013-04-09 The mortgage finance companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are in conservatorship and the government wants to wind them down. Yet their share prices have jumped this year....
217 2013-04-09 A ten day rickshaw ride, from Delhi to Mumbai, to visit inspirational women in India....
218 2013-04-09 There remains a strangely high unemployment rate relative to the job openings rate, at least when compared with the relationship these two variables had before the recession....
219 2013-04-09 Months after brokering a settlement with banks over mortgage foreclosure abuses, the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency are set to dole out roughly $1.2 billion in cash relief....
220 2013-04-09 Federal prosecutors and regulators in Los Angeles are said to be investigating a former senior partner at the auditing firm on suspicion that he leaked information to a trader....
221 2013-04-09 Metropolitan Diary: Anticipating that her 3-month-old might cry in flight, a mother gave out goody bags, including earplugs, to nearby passengers....
222 2013-04-09 TOKYO — The Japanese Army set up a battery of interceptor missiles on the grounds of the Defense Ministry in central Tokyo on Tuesday, as the nation girded itself for a possible missile test by North Korea, maybe as soon as this week.

The Patriot antimissile battery was deployed after the defense minister, Itsunori Onodera, issued standing orders to the Japanese military on Sunday to shoot down any North Korean missile that threatened to hit Japanese territory. Japan has responded to past North Korean tests by similarly issuing such orders and positioning interceptor missiles.

The ministry said warships carrying the Aegis radar and interceptor missiles had been deployed as a shield in waters between the Korean Peninsula and Japan. The Patriot battery, an American-supplied system that is also deployed at two Japanese military bases near Tokyo, will be the second line of defense, the ministry said.

Signs that North Korea may be preparing for a missile test have been met with concern in Japan, which has found itself under the flight path of previous test missiles. In an intensifying war of words with South Korea and the United States, the North has threatened to strike American military bases in Japan. Some of those bases are in the greater Tokyo area, a densely populated urban zone of 33 million people.

The United States military also has its own Patriot batteries on bases in Okinawa, the Japanese island that hosts most of the 50,000 American military personnel in the country.

Over the weekend, South Korean officials said that the North appeared to be preparing to test the Musudan, a new medium-range missile that can hit anywhere in Japan and possibly reach as far as the American territory of Guam, though not the United States. Unlike some of the rockets used in previous tests, which the North said were intended to launch satellites, the Musudan is described by experts as having been developed for use mainly as a weapon.
223 2013-04-09 KPMG said late Monday night it had fired a senior partner in its Los Angeles office after learning that he had provided inside information to an unnamed individual “who then used that information in stock trades involving several West Coast companies.”

The audit firm, one of the Big Four, did not name the partner. It said that as a result of the discovery it had resigned as the auditor of two companies, “after concluding today that the firm’s independence has been impacted as a result of this individual’s behavior.”

The firm did not name the companies, but added, “We have no reason to believe that the financial statements of these companies have been materially misstated.”

Tim Connolly, a KPMG spokesman, said the discharged partner was a “senior partner who led accounts for some of our clients on the West Coast.”

KPMG said it learned of the actions late last week, but did not say how it had learned of the information. It did not say if the Securities and Exchange Commission had begun an investigation, but there is no doubt it will do so if it has not already begun one.
224 2013-04-09 “Medicare Shift May Lead Way to Budget Pact” (front page, March 29) held out hope for a bipartisan deal to fix Medicare. America’s business leaders believe that would be a good thing.

Medicare — a program designed in a different era that does not match today’s fiscal and demographic realities — is badly in need of reform.

The good news is that Americans are living longer, healthier and more productive lives. The bad news is that Medicare, as constituted, is simply not capable of underwriting an increasingly longer portion of our lives.

The members of Business Roundtable — more than 200 chief executives of America’s leading companies employing nearly 16 million workers — have called on Congress and the administration to reform and strengthen Medicare, including by gradually increasing the eligibility age over time and letting beneficiaries choose between traditional Medicare and competing personal plans.

We’ve seen this work in the Medicare prescription drug benefit program, where competition has resulted in better service and reduced cost growth.

We need pragmatic, bipartisan solutions that will preserve the promise of Medicare for generations to come while improving America’s fiscal outlook. In discussions with leaders in the administration and Congress, we, too, have perceived some newfound flexibility. We urge them to work together and reach an agreement this year.

The writers are, respectively, chairman, chief executive and president of Caesars Entertainment Corporation; and chairman and chief executive of A.T.&T.
225 2013-04-09 David Brooks presents an extremely utilitarian view of higher education (“The Practical University,” column, April 5). It reflects an uncertain economic time but should not be embraced.

As he notes, technical and practical knowledge and skills for career preparation are important and necessary goals of higher education. But the best outcomes of a college experience go well beyond this. They include development of the whole, thinking person, cultivation of creativity, maturation of social and cultural sensibilities, and even increased passion for life, learning and civic engagement of all sorts — what collectively might be called “life and citizenship knowledge.”

Thus, an essential, if not primary, answer to Mr. Brooks’s question, “What is a university for?,” should be promoting knowledge and understanding for their own sake — beyond any relevance to a job — and educating thoughtful, caring citizens who have the skills and motivation for helping advance the well-being and flourishing of individuals and communities.

The writer is an assistant professor of biology and environmental science at Roger Williams University.

David Brooks suggests that universities are places where students acquire two kinds of knowledge, “technical” and “practical.” I see little difference between these kinds, but I see a large difference between them and “liberal knowledge.”

What used to be called a liberal education was one that aspired, through the study of literature, philosophy, history and science, to intellectual excellence. For many students and some teachers, such liberal knowledge appears not to count for much.

The writer is a professor of English at Amherst College.

Let me be bold enough to provide the time-honored response. A university develops knowledge through scholarship and research. A university transmits knowledge through instruction. A university applies knowledge through public service. This traditional formulation of a university’s purpose serves us far better than Mr. Brooks’s dubious assertion that “the future of the universities is in practical knowledge.”
226 2013-04-09 IN 1999, as a writer for The American Prospect, I went into a slaughterhouse undercover, with the help of some rebellious employees. The floor was slick with the residue of blood and suet, and the air smelled like iron. A part of my brain spent the whole time trying to remember which of Dante’s circles this scene most resembled.

Today, under legislation being pushed by business interests, that bit of journalistic adventure could earn me a criminal conviction and land me on a registry of “animal and ecological terrorists.” So-called ag-gag laws, proposed or enacted in about a dozen states, make, or would make, criminals of animal-rights activists who take covert pictures and videos of conditions on industrial farms and slaughterhouses. Some would even classify the activists as terrorists.

The agriculture industry says the images are unfair. They seem to show cruelty and brutality, but the eye can be deceiving. The most humane way of slaughtering an animal, or dealing with a sick one, may look pretty horrible. But so does open-heart surgery. The problem with making moral arguments by appealing to revulsion is that some beneficial and indispensable acts can also be revolting. With gruesome shots of cadavers, a skilled amateur could make a strong emotional case against using them to teach anatomy in medical school.

Moreover, the industry says, the activists are trespassers, or, when they’re employees working undercover for an animal-rights group or news organization, they’re going beyond the terms of their employment. Slaughterhouses and confined-feeding operations can be dangerous places. Although the industry surely exaggerates the risk, guerrilla actions are not the safest or best way to spur reflection on how we treat animals.

Fairness and safety are real issues. So is transparency, and that is why we should require confined-feeding operations and slaughterhouses to install webcams at key stages of their operations. List the URL’s to the video on the packaging. There would be no need for human intrusion into dangerous sites. No tricky angles or scary edits by activists. Just the visual facts. If the operators felt their work misrepresented, they could add cameras to give an even fuller picture.
227 2013-04-09 Here, I suppose Mr. Bloomberg talks from empirical observation in his 12 years in office. In that time, few have done more to feed slop to the worst actors in this system than our mogul mayor. In 2009, when he decided that his professed love of term limits was silliness and that he would like the nomination, he spread cash the way a farmer spreads manure in spring.

In all, he and his operatives handed out more than $800,000 to various Republican organizations. Afterward, the mayor toured the city’s various Republican committees, like a don making postprandial rounds. As The described one such visit, he took a kiss on both cheeks, offered a smile here or there, listened to a few money-besotted giggles, and then slipped back into his black S.U.V.

And what did the mayor’s gold buy besides political allegiance? In the Bronx, campaign-finance records reveal that the party boss, Joseph Savino, dined exceptionally well, at the Full Moon Trattoria ($266) in Purchase, N.Y., and the Pomona Chop House ($199) in Pomona, N.Y.

Nor can the mayor object if his money was spent frivolously. Before Mr. Savino took over the Bronx Republican Party, he worked as a top aide for State Senator , whose long tenure in politics ended with a few months in jail on a bribery conviction. And now, alas, Mr. Savino has been indicted on charges of bribetaking.

Not to pile on the mayor, but there really is more. So we have the strange tale of the Independence Party, a bizarre amalgam of right-wing populists married to black leftists and once led by Fred Newman, a Marxist therapist who, The Daily News reported, advocated “friendosexuality” — translated as having sex with patients.

Whatever. Mr. Newman controlled a party line and Mr. Bloomberg all but purchased it. He gave the party more than $400,000 over the years and promised to support nonpartisan elections.

Ask about his giving, and the mayor can seem to marvel at your naïveté. Few of his class, he cautions, share his tolerance for the noisome hoi polloi. “Friends of mine will not go into public service,” he said. “And I don’t blame them.”

No doubt electoral politics can be an annoyance. But if the mayor is in the mood for honesty, he might acknowledge that his class has made a substantial contribution to our corrupt age. Mr. Savino stands accused of taking a $15,000 bribe in exchange for promising to help place State Senator on the mayoral ballot as a Republican. And two assemblymen in the Bronx may have brought dishonor on themselves.

At the same time, in the last three months, the United States attorney in has announced the arrest of two hedge-fund financiers, and the sentencing of six more. Each of these finely educated and newly minted felons engaged in corruption worth millions of dollars.

“The system is broken,” the mayor notes. Really, who could disagree with him?
228 2013-04-09 Credit: Thomas Cristofoletti for The New York Times
229 2013-04-09 The Jets, who were then the Titans, were also using the Polo Grounds at that point, but they, too, knew the place was on borrowed time. (Demolition began a week before Shea Stadium opened.) George Vecsey of The New York Times, who covered the Mets in those years, called the Polo Grounds rusted-out and pigeon-befouled and said “it probably was more archaic than falling apart.”

But the team did splash some paint around to make it appear like the home of the Mets. A photograph unearthed by Pete Putman, a photographer and sports blogger from Bucks County, Pa., shows the back end of the stadium painted in a cream white with flourishes of blue and orange, the Mets’ colors. Above the clubhouse were the words “Polo Grounds” and to the right, in larger letters, were the words “The Mets N.Y. National League Baseball Club.”

Behind the stadium, apartment houses can be seen set against a blue sky and puffs of white clouds. A handful of cars are parked in front, presumably those of workers inside. Many pictures of the Polo Grounds were taken from Coogan’s Bluff, above the other end of the stadium. But this photo provides a rare view of the stadium, a tranquil portrait of a relic that was soon to vanish.

The person who took this photograph remains a mystery. In the 1970s, Putman bought trays of Kodachrome slides at a garage sale in upstate New York. A decade later, he looked at them and saw that they were taken on a trip to New York City in 1963, presumably by someone on a Circle Line cruise because there were pictures of the waterfronts in Weehawken, Hoboken and Lower Manhattan. The ship must have also made its way up the Harlem River, where the photographer took this shot of the Polo Grounds.

“He got the lighting correct, the contrast right and the exposure, too,” Putman said. “It’s perfectly composed.”

Putman scanned the slide and then enlarged and cleaned it on Photoshop. He gave a few prints to die-hard Mets fans. “They thought it was Shangri La,” he said. “If you’re into old stadiums, it’s something you have to have. It’s like finding a picture of Babe Ruth standing at home plate.”

The Polo Grounds has been gone nearly 50 years, but one of its last remnants is being restored. The Brush Stairway, which ran down Coogan’s Bluff to the stadium, which is roughly where Edgecombe Avenue runs today, is being repaired in part with donations from the stadium’s former tenants.

The staircase once led to a ticket booth and was built by the Giants in 1913. Now it leads to a public housing complex called the Polo Grounds Towers that includes four 30-story skyscrapers with 1,616 units.

When the Giants played at the Polo Grounds, fans would stand on Coogan’s Bluff to watch games for free. In building the staircase, the Giants might have been trying to coax a few more fans into buying tickets.

The broken stairway leads nowhere today except to an overgrown stretch of Highbridge Park. On a landing part of the way down is an inscription: “The John T. Brush Stairway Presented by the New York Giants.” The stairway was meant to honor Brush, the Giants owner who died the year before, in 1912.

In honor of the stairway’s centenary, the Parks Department is fixing it up as part of an overhaul of Highbridge Park. The reconstruction will maintain “the location and characteristics of the prior stair” and incorporate “similar material elements of steel and concrete,” according to Phil Abramson, a spokesman for the Parks Department.

The renovated stairway, which will be finished this spring, will cost $950,000. Of that, the New York Giants football team donated $200,000, the Mets and Yankees (who played there from 1913 to 1922) donated $100,000 each, and the Jets, the San Francisco Giants and Major League Baseball each donated $50,000. The Manhattan Borough president’s office paid the rest.

In the decades since the Dodgers and the Giants left New York for California, it is that Dodgers team that lives on in the popular imagination more than the Giants do. It is the old Dodgers, after all, who became the subject of a best-selling book (“The Boys of Summer”) and it is Ebbets Field that inspired the design of Citi Field.

The old Giants, meanwhile, were often ignored, although they have twice gotten a generous nod in recent years from their descendants in San Francisco, who came to New York after their World Series victories in 2010 and 2012 to show off the championship trophy and to reconnect with the past. And now, on Tuesday, it is the Polo Grounds’ turn to bask for a moment in memory’s spotlight.
230 2013-04-09 “He is already generating lots of good will among House Democrats and Democratic candidates across the country,” said Representative Steve Israel of New York, the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. “He is diving into races. He is making recruiting calls. He is fund-raising. He is firing up our core supporters across the country.”

Aides said Mr. Biden would do those things regardless of his own ambitions. And the preliminary moves do not address the more fundamental challenge: How would he run against Mrs. Clinton, who seemed to be Mr. Obama’s anointed heir in a joint interview they gave to the CBS program “60 Minutes” earlier this year? Mr. Biden would not have exclusive claim to the Obama legacy and, like any vice president, he would need to distinguish himself from the departing president. He could run to the left of her, emphasizing a more populist approach. Or he could run as the insurance policy in case she does not run or if she falters.

It is not clear that a presidential campaign makes sense for Mr. Biden, who would turn 74 shortly after the 2016 general election and 82 before the end of a second term.

But it is in his interest to keep the option open as long as possible to maintain his influence and to see what Mrs. Clinton decides to do. The moment Mr. Biden declares he will not run, he becomes a lame-duck No. 2 in a lame-duck administration.

Unlike Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Biden still has his day job, and his potential aspirations will shape the dynamics of President Obama’s West Wing. A second-term White House often struggles with the tension between building a president’s legacy and advancing a vice president’s election prospects.

That was exactly what Mr. Biden promised Mr. Obama would not happen five years ago when they forged their partnership. “The good news is I’m 65 and you’re not going to have to worry about my positioning myself to be president,” he recalled telling Mr. Obama in a 2008 interview with Newsweek.

Days before he was inaugurated in 2009, Mr. Biden said in an interview with The New York Times that he did not plan to run in 2016. “That is not my intention,” he said. “This is in all probability, and hopefully, a worthy capstone in my career.”

At the time, aides said that would make Mr. Biden a more valuable vice president because, unlike Al Gore, he could sublimate his own ambitions. But something changed along the way: Mr. Biden found the White House reinvigorating after 36 years in the Senate and stopped ruling out another campaign.

“I think he got into it,” said former Senator Ted Kaufman, a longtime adviser who assumed Mr. Biden’s seat in Delaware. “In retrospect, he should have known then that he would get into it.”

Joe Slade White, a political consultant who has worked for Mr. Biden for 18 years, said the vice president has acclimated to life in the executive branch. “I’ve never seen him happier,” he said. “I’ve never seen him more confident and sure of what he’s doing.”

Should he run, it would be Mr. Biden’s third presidential campaign — and the first two did not go well. He campaigned as a promising upstart in 1988 before being driven out for lifting lines from a British politician’s speech without attributing them during a debate. (He had attributed them on other occasions.) Then he ran as an elder statesman in 2008 before being swamped by Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton, drawing just 1 percent in the Iowa caucuses.

Since then, his public identity has evolved. An archetype of one, Mr. Biden comes across as a genial, idiosyncratic uncle, a loquacious storyteller with distinctive verbal tics — “literally!” — and unrestrained by the filter that governs many political figures. If his critics consider him a blowhard, he connects with everyday voters in a way that the more reserved Mr. Obama does not.

“The public reacts to that,” Mr. White said. “They don’t want a calculated president. They want authenticity.”

Mr. Biden has not always agreed with his president — he was skeptical of the 2009 troop buildup in Afghanistan and the raid to go after Osama bin Laden in 2011 — but he has become Mr. Obama’s go-to player on issues like gun control and fiscal negotiations, sometimes succeeding where the president could not.

Along the way, Mr. Biden has maintained his own political contacts. “He really does have a strong following, folks who have supported him, and he’s been engaged in maintaining connections with folks,” said Tyler Olson, chairman of the Iowa Democratic Party. “The Iowa caucuses are built on a person-to-person level. That network would serve him well if he decides to run.”

Representative James E. Clyburn, who invited Mr. Biden to South Carolina in May, noted that the vice president has visited his state often. “Democrats see him as a very genuine person who has life experiences that makes him very sensitive to those issues that Democrats care a lot about,” Mr. Clyburn said.

Still, as the Vital Voices Global Leadership Awards last week at the Kennedy Center demonstrated, Mrs. Clinton commands the most attention. Her favorable rating stood at 63 percent last month in a CNN/ORC poll, while Mr. Biden’s was 44 percent.

Mr. White, the political consultant, said Mrs. Clinton would be a factor but not the “determining factor” in Mr. Biden’s decision to run. So far, he said, there have been no polls or strategy meetings. But as the vice president contemplates his future, advisers said he will draw on the lessons of the past and the benefits of his new prominence.

“It’ll be very different than the other two races,” said Mr. Kaufman. “If he decides to do it, it will be a different kind of race.”

But, he added, “there will be a thousand things to consider first.”
231 2013-04-09 AMC lost about nine million viewers in a week, but it still celebrated a solid return Sunday night for its most prestigious drama, “Mad Men.”

The two-hour premiere of the first episode of its sixth season attracted 3.4 million viewers, which was just a tick less than the all-time high for the show, 3.5 million. That was the number for the Season 5 premiere, a year ago.

But the show’s appeal got slightly older. In the top audience group for advertisers, viewers between the ages of 18 and 49, “Mad Men” reached 1.4 million viewers for its premiere Sunday night. That was down from 1.6 million last year.

A week ago, in the 10 p.m. hour, AMC pulled in 12.4 million viewers for the finale of network’s most popular show, “The Walking Dead.”

That show does not have a long list of Emmy Awards to its credit, however. “Mad Men,” which does, continues to be among the most talked about (and written about) shows on television. And it is likely to rank high on the list of shows that add many more viewers when delayed viewing is counted in.

Last season was the best in the course of “Mad Men” in terms of average audience per episode at 2.6 million. Given the near match for the premiere, that will be the number the series will aim for in Season 6.
232 2013-04-09 But multinational companies are finding that they can run from China’s rising wages but cannot truly hide. The populations, economies and even electricity output of most Southeast Asian countries are smaller than in many Chinese provinces, and sometimes smaller than a single Chinese city. As companies shift south, they quickly use up local labor supplies and push wages up sharply.

While wages and benefits often remain below levels needed to provide proper housing and balanced diets, the manufacturing investment — foreign direct investment in Cambodia rose 70 percent last year from 2011 — is starting to raise millions of people out of destitution. “People along the Mekong River are being lifted out of poverty by foreign investment inflows driven by higher Chinese wages,” said Peter Brimble, the senior economist for Cambodia at the Asian Development Bank.

Only a smattering of companies, mostly in low-tech sectors like garment and shoe manufacturing, are seeking to leave China entirely. Many more companies are building new factories in Southeast Asia to supplement operations in China. China’s fast-growing domestic market, large population and huge industrial base still make it attractive for many companies, while productivity in China is rising almost as fast as wages in many industries.

Foreign investment in China nonetheless slipped 3.5 percent last year, after rising every year since 1980 except 1999, during the Asian financial crisis, and 2009, during the global financial crisis. Still, at $119.7 billion, foreign investment in China continues to dwarf investment elsewhere.

By comparison, investment in Cambodia rose to $1.5 billion. But last year was the first time since comparable recordkeeping began in the 1970s that Cambodia received more foreign investment per person than China.

“People are not looking for exit strategies from China, they’re looking to set up parallel operations to hedge their bets,” said Bretton Sciaroni, another American lawyer here. Among Japanese makers, Sumitomo is making wiring harnesses for cars, Minebea is assembling parts for cellphones and Denso is about to start production of motorcycle ignition components.

Foreign investment also jumped last year in Vietnam, Thailand, Myanmar and the Philippines.

As companies compete for employees, working conditions in the region are improving. Pactics, a Belgian-run company that is the world’s largest maker of microfiber sleeves for luxury sunglasses, has introduced employee benefits that were previously rare in Cambodia, like medical insurance, accident insurance, education allowances and free lunches.

Because costs are extremely low in Cambodia, where a visit to the doctor may cost only a couple of dollars, overall compensation for each worker is still less than $130 a month. At the company’s factory on the outskirts of Shanghai, workers doing the same tasks earn $560 to $640 a month, including government-mandated allowances, said Piet Holten, the company’s president.

Cambodian workers sew 15 to 30 percent fewer sleeves per day than their Shanghai counterparts, but productivity in Cambodia has been catching up.

“I will never get it up to China, but the cost is less than a third of China’s, and China only gets more expensive,” Mr. Holten said.

Overall monthly compensation for industrial workers has increased as much as 65 percent in the last five years in Cambodia, although from such a low base that workers here remain among the poorest in Asia. A decade ago, workers flocked to newly opened factories in Phnom Penh that posted hiring notices, but “today, you put a notice on a factory and you don’t have anybody come,” said Sandra D’Amico, the managing director of HR Inc. Cambodia, a human resources company.

Strikes this winter temporarily crippled numerous Taiwanese-owned garment factories in eastern Cambodia producing simple garments like bathing suits after Japanese factories moved in to make more sophisticated products like business suits and gloves — and offered higher pay and benefits.

At the Phnom Penh Special Economic Zone here in central Cambodia, Minebea is trying to attract workers by building a modern, four-story dormitory for 2,000 people with six beds to a room and a large recreation hall — a big change from the plywood houses with thatched roofs in which millions of Cambodians still live. The Laurelton Diamonds unit of Tiffany has already driven pilings for a modern, 95,000-square-foot factory across the street to polish small diamonds, and is seeking international “green building” accreditation for the project.

Employment at the zone is doubling this year, to 20,000 workers, and is projected to redouble to 40,000 in the next several years, said Hiroshi Uematsu, the zone’s managing director.

Skeptics like David J. Welsh, the Cambodia representative of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.’s Solidarity Center, say that rising food and housing costs prevent many workers from fully benefiting from rising wages. Ken Loo, secretary general of the Garment Manufacturers Association in Cambodia, said that his industry needed to resist workers’ demands for further pay increases to preserve international competitiveness.

Tatiana Olchanetzky, a manufacturing consultant to companies in the handbag and luggage industry, said that she had analyzed the costs in her industry of moving operations from China to the Philippines, Cambodia, Vietnam and Indonesia. She found that any savings were very small because China produces most of the fabrics, clasps, wheels and other materials required for the bag trade, and these would have to be shipped to other countries if final assembly moved there.

But some factories have moved anyway, at the request of Western buyers who fear depending exclusively on a single country.

While moving to a new country with an unproved supply chain is a risk, Ms. Olchanetzky said, “They think there’s a risk in staying in China, too.”
233 2013-04-09 Coastal development has soared, and this rush toward the sea is the biggest factor in the rising costs of storm bailouts....
234 2013-04-09 Baldness may indicate an increased risk for coronary heart disease.&#xa;   &#xa;The risk is associated only with male pattern baldness, the kind that starts at the top or back of the head, and not with a receding hairline, according to researchers...
235 2013-04-09 The Senate on Monday confirmed  Mary Jo White  as head of the  Securities and Exchange Commission , dismissing concerns about her close ties to the Wall Street banks she will now oversee.&#xa;   &#xa;Ms. White, a former federal prosecutor who spen...
236 2013-04-09 The chief executives of the three largest stock exchanges are joining forces for the first time to push regulators to rein in the increasing amount of trading that is moving off public exchanges and onto platforms like so-called dark pools.&#xa;  ...
237 2013-04-09 Coming this summer to as many as 120 screens around New York City: &#x201C;On the Go!&#x201D;&#xa;   &#xa;Thrill to your own personal journey underground, as bright ribbons of color snake through the boroughs, showing you how to get from here to t...
238 2013-04-10 The fresh look at internal practices came after news that a senior partner at KPMG gave confidential information about two clients....
239 2013-04-10 Banks are shedding risky assets to show that they are not as vulnerable as they once were, but in some cases that just means shifting the risk to a less regulated area of Wall Street....
240 2013-04-10 There is something about chirping birds that makes us want to say goodbye to earth tones. Some makeup picks for this spring season.
241 2013-04-10 The Off the Dribble team has been interested in learning about Nets fans now that the team is in Brooklyn. We plan to talk with fans at home games throughout the season and will focus on Section 15, behind the east basket in the lower bowl.
242 2013-04-10 A judge has approved a request from Donald Longueuil, a former employee of the hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors, to take a three-week honeymoon to Africa after his prison sentence is over....
243 2013-04-10 If Melissa Harris-Perry can’t propose investing in our children without provoking partisan ire, our “every man for himself” family policies are never going to change....
244 2013-04-10 At a candidates forum in the Bronx, The Times’s Stephen Farrell spoke with some of the mayoral candidates about the news that Anthony Weiner is considering a run.
245 2013-04-10 Five seminal British plays that would never have come about without Margaret Thatcher....
246 2013-04-10 Are there lessons to be learned from Dollar Shave Club’s viral beginning?...
247 2013-04-10 General Electric is announcing a deal with Quirky, a start-up that crowd-sources the development of products, in an attempt to turn industrial patents into Internet-connected devices for consumers....
248 2013-04-10 The police say a 35-year-old man burned a dozen Jewish doorway adornments known as mezuzot in Brooklyn this week....
249 2013-04-10 In an interview with the Russian newspaper, “Kommersant,” Ms. Osipova gave the same reason for her move from the Mikhailovsky to the Royal as she did for her move from the Bolshoi to the Mikhailovsky: Repertoire....
250 2013-04-10 George E. Logue Sr. collected scores of tractors and bulldozers over the years. Now that he has passed away, his collection is up for grabs....
251 2013-04-10 The I.R.S. has not prohibited so-called ROBS transactions, but the agency hasn’t declared them legal either....
252 2013-04-10 Amid talk of China’s position on North Korea shifting, an ancient archeological find may point to its real interests in the region, some Koreans believe....
253 2013-04-10 Networking and content management providers are working with cable companies and other broadcasters to deal with competition from the Internet by controlling the mobile video experience and offering extras....
254 2013-04-10 The head of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kirill, said Tuesday that feminism was a “very dangerous” phenomenon offering an illusion of freedom to women who should focus on their families and children. About three-quarters of Russians consider themselves Russian Orthodox, and Kirill has fostered close ties with President Vladimir Putin, who has portrayed the church as the guardian of Russia’s national values. “I find very dangerous this phenomenon, which is called feminism, because feminist organizations proclaim a pseudo-freedom of women that should in the first place be manifested outside marriage and outside the family,” Kirill said, according to Interfax news agency. “Man turns his sight outward, he should work, make money. While a woman is always focused inwards towards her children, her home. If this exceptionally important role of a woman is destroyed, everything will be destroyed as a consequence — family and, if you wish, the homeland.”
255 2013-04-10 An elephant in the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus was injured in a drive-by shooting on Tuesday, and the police were searching for suspects, law enforcement and circus officials said.

The 39-year-old Asian elephant, named Carol, was resting in an enclosure outside the BancorpSouth Arena in Tupelo when a shot fired from a passing vehicle hit her shoulder, an arena spokesman said. The elephant is expected to fully recover, the circus said.
256 2013-04-10 On Thursday, several bills to pre-empt the regulation of derivatives will be the focus of a hearing in the House Financial Services Committee. The bills, which have already passed the Agriculture Committee, must be stopped if the world is to be made safe from reckless risk-taking by banks. As it turns out, Representative Jeb Hensarling, Republican of Texas and the new head of the Financial Services Committee, may be the man to stop them.

In a recent interview with The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Hensarling outlined a free-enterprise approach to bank regulation that sensibly supported “greater capital and liquidity standards” and better “ring-fencing, fire-walling — whatever metaphor you want to use — between an insured depository institution and a noninsured investment bank.”

One of the bills before his committee would do the opposite of what he envisions. It would gut a provision of the Dodd-Frank financial reform law that effectively requires banks to spin off their riskiest derivatives transactions into separately capitalized uninsured subsidiaries. The spinoff provision, which starts phasing in this year, is important for shielding taxpayers from future bailouts. But the big banks have fought the provision because their taxpayer backing from being both federally insured and too big to fail is part of what makes their derivatives business hugely profitable. If Mr. Hensarling is the free-enterprise advocate he says he is, he will tell the banks that if they cannot profitably do their deals without taxpayer backing, they should not be doing them at all.

The other bills would let the banks continue to take undue risks. One would undercut the range of new derivatives rules under Dodd-Frank — on transparency, capital and business standards — by delaying and weakening their application to foreign branches of American banks. It would require the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the main regulator of derivatives, to issue its international rules jointly with the Securities and Exchange Commission. That would yoke the C.F.T.C., which has been an effective and timely proponent of international rules, to the weak and tardy S.E.C., virtually ensuring that strong rules would not get done soon, if ever. If the rules do not apply globally, speculation abroad will create losses for American institutions and taxpayers.

The bills would practically invite the banks to challenge new derivatives rules in court by forcing regulators to justify them with ever more detailed cost-benefit analyses and by putting contradictory exemptions into the law.

In writing the rules, regulators have gone to great lengths to consider bank concerns. If Congress further indulges the banks by approving these bills, the effort to reform derivatives, which is central to overall financial reform, will be turned into a farce.
257 2013-04-10 SHOULD a journalist be punished for revealing a murderer’s secrets?

Jana Winter, a reporter at Fox News, covered the shooting rampage that killed 12 people and injured 58 others at a movie theater in Aurora, Colo., on July 20, 2012. Five days after the attack, she reported that James E. Holmes, who has been charged with committing the massacre, had sent a notebook to a psychiatrist before the attack.

On July 25, Ms. Winter quoted two unnamed law enforcement sources as saying that Mr. Holmes had “mailed a notebook ‘full of details about how he was going to kill people’ to a University of Colorado psychiatrist before the attack.” According to her reporting, the notebook contained “drawings of what he was going to do,” including sketches of “gun-wielding stick figures blowing away other stick figures.”

Mr. Holmes’s lawyers are now trying to compel Ms. Winter to disclose her sources, who spoke to her on a confidential basis and possibly violated a court-imposed order that was intended to restrict public access to materials in the case so as to ensure a fair trial. The defense lawyers say the information is relevant because it speaks to the credibility of law enforcement officers who, under oath, have denied leaking the information.

Lawyers for Ms. Winter and Fox News have moved to quash the subpoena, asserting that under the First Amendment and Colorado’s “shield law,” which protects reporters, she is not required to disclose her sources. On Monday, the judge in the Holmes case, Carlos A. Samour Jr., put off a decision on the motion, saying he needed to first decide whether the notebook was even relevant to the criminal proceeding.

But the case is clear-cut.

If Ms. Winter were compelled to reveal her sources — or found in contempt of court and fined or jailed for refusing to do so — it would have a chilling effect on journalists and their ability to gather information in the public interest. This should be an open-and-shut case, but it comes at a time when the Obama administration, despite its commitment to transparency, has pursued a record number of criminal prosecutions against whistle-blowers for leaking information to the press, even if the disclosures were done out of an honest desire to serve the public interest. (Disclosure: I have represented Fox News and its parent, News Corporation, in the past, but have no involvement in this case.)
258 2013-04-10 Sylvia Mathews Burwell, who has been nominated as director of the budget office, also appeared to have no serious opposition in the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.

Ms. Tavenner, a nurse, worked for more than two decades at the Hospital Corporation of America, a commercial hospital chain, eventually becoming an executive there. From 2006 to 2010, she was the secretary of health and human resources in Virginia, managing Medicaid, foster care and other programs for Tim Kaine, a Democrat who was then governor and is now a United States senator.

At the hearing, held by the Senate Finance Committee, Mr. Cantor said Ms. Tavenner, who grew up in the rural town of Fieldale, Va., was “eminently qualified.”

Ms. Tavenner pleased Republicans with her vision for the Medicare agency, which has an annual budget of more than $850 billion. “We need to operate C.M.S. as a business and act like business partners,” she said.

In response to questions, Ms. Tavenner said she had ordered an internal investigation of the premature disclosure of information about the rates that would be paid to Medicare managed care plans. The disclosure, on April 1, touched off frenetic trading that drove up share prices for insurance companies that run such Medicare Advantage plans, including Humana, UnitedHealth Group and Aetna.

“I consider this a huge issue,” Ms. Tavenner told Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa.

Ms. Tavenner indicated at several points that she was not impressed with the work of actuaries who say the 2010 health care law could lead to higher premiums for policies sold to consumers in the individual health insurance market.

Fewer than 20 million Americans are in that market, Ms. Tavenner said, so most Americans will not be affected.

In addition, she said, the government will offer subsidies in the form of tax credits to help some people pay premiums, and consumers will have a choice of policies providing different levels of coverage at different prices.

Finally, she said, some insurance policies have low premiums for a reason: they offer skimpy, bare-bones coverage, and consumers may not discover that unless they need coverage for a serious illness.

Senator Richard M. Burr, Republican of North Carolina, said that “subsidies mask the cost” of health insurance to consumers, but do not hold down the cost of health care or of insurance.

In response to a question from Mr. Burr, Ms. Tavenner could not immediately say how much it would cost the federal government to run health insurance marketplaces, or exchanges, in more than half the states next year. When Congress passed the health care law, it assumed that each state would set up its own regulated market, but many states have balked, leaving the task to federal officials.

Ms. Tavenner said the Obama administration was still working with Arkansas on its proposal to expand Medicaid by subsidizing the purchase of private insurance for low-income people.

Officials in Florida, Ohio and other states have expressed interest in such “premium assistance,” even though it might be more expensive than expanding the traditional Medicaid program because private insurers often pay higher rates to doctors and hospitals. Ms. Tavenner said she believed that only “a handful of states” were interested in following Arkansas’s example.

Mr. Moniz avoided taking firm positions on many of the issues, and pointedly refused to be pinned down on whether a factory on which the department has spent about $6 billion and which is intended to convert plutonium from bombs into fuel for civilian power reactors should be finished. The United States has an agreement with Russia, which Mr. Moniz helped negotiate, that each side will convert some of its weapons-grade plutonium into a form unsuitable for weapons.

Mr. Moniz did commit to visiting another troubled, multibillion-dollar construction project, a factory at the Hanford Nuclear Reservation in south-central Washington State that is supposed to solidify military nuclear wastes so they cannot spill. At the request of the committee chairman, Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, he also agreed to meet people at the plant who Mr. Wyden said were “whistle-blowers” pointing to safety problems.
259 2013-04-10 Crews dug through a gutted Detroit medical building on Tuesday, searching for two people unaccounted for after shots were fired inside and the structure was set on fire, the police said. A man believed responsible for the shooting and a woman who worked at the site, the Park Medical Centers, had not been found, said Dwane Blackmon, a Detroit police homicide inspector. He did not release their names.
260 2013-04-10 The City Council of Ellisville voted 5 to 1 on Monday to remove its mayor, Adam Paul, 32, with whom it began feuding almost as soon as he took office last April.

Mr. Paul’s lawyer, Chet Pleban, said Tuesday that he would ask a court to reinstate his client, saying he believed the city charter was unconstitutional in the procedure it outlines for impeachment and the grounds on which it allowed Mr. Paul to be impeached.

The Council accused Mr. Paul of violating the city charter by, among other things, improperly ordering city employees to perform certain tasks, failing to control meetings properly and trying to have the city attorney fired. The Council also alleged that Mr. Paul drank and cursed on the job, but those charges were later dropped from the impeachment resolution.

Mr. Paul swept into office in the St. Louis suburb as a political novice, campaigning against awarding tax incentives to build a Walmart. The Council approved the Walmart project shortly after he took office, and Mr. Paul said the impeachment was retribution for his opposition.
261 2013-04-10 The University of Maine fired Coach Tim Whitehead after 12 seasons. Whitehead had a record of 250-171-54 at Maine, and took the team to the national championship game in 2002 and 2004. But his teams had losing records for the past six seasons.
262 2013-04-10 Borussia Dortmund scored twice in stoppage time to defeat visiting Málaga, 3-2, and advance to the Champions League semifinals for the first time in 15 years. Felipe Santana hit the winner after a goal-mouth scramble in the third minute of injury time that looked offside.

Real Madrid reached the semifinals for the third straight season after Cristiano Ronaldo scored twice in a 3-2 loss to Galatasaray. Madrid had won the first leg at home, 3-0.

¶ The Seattle Sounders drew, 1-1, against host Santos Laguna of Mexico, but were eliminated in the Concacaf Champions League, having lost the first leg, 1-0, at home. (NYT)

¶ Honduras will play a friendly against Israel on June 2 at Citi Field.
263 2013-04-10 Victor Oladipo of Indiana will leave college to join the N.B.A. Oladipo, a junior first-team all-American, was the Hoosiers’ second-leading scorer, averaging 13.6 points, and is projected as a top-six choice.

Indiana’s sophomore center Cody Zeller is expected to decide whether he will leave for the N.B.A. as early as Wednesday.

Kansas guard Ben McLemore, who broke the team freshman scoring record held by Danny Manning, also said he would enter the draft.
264 2013-04-10 Other horses are simply abandoned, or killed illegally, animal right activists say, their carcasses dumped in remote areas and sometimes even beheaded in order to remove their identification microchip and avoid a possible fine. The police recently unearthed a horse cemetery in the hills near Algeciras that contained the unidentifiable remains of around 20 horses.

“Many people who suddenly became rich thanks to property then also went crazy about buying nice horses,” said Miguel Alonso, a horse veterinarian. “The major difference is that you can at least shutter a house if the market then collapses, while a horse has to continue to be fed.”

The crisis has had the unexpected effect of making Spain an increasingly prominent supplier of horse meat to the rest of the Continent. The number of horses killed in Spanish slaughterhouses has doubled since the start of the financial crisis, to 59,379 last year from 30,563 in 2008, according to Spain’s Agriculture Ministry.

Most of that Spanish horse meat is exported to countries like France and Italy, where horse meat is a culinary tradition. Spanish horse meat exports rose six-fold in 2011, according to the most recent figures from the Agriculture Ministry. (Spain itself, with the exception of the eastern regions closest to France, has little use for horse meat.)

Spanish officials say that the slaughtering boom has increasingly claimed horses in their prime years, not just those one step from the proverbial glue factory, which is good if you plan to eat their meat. “There has been a move from slaughtering older to younger horses, so the quality of Spanish horse meat is also much higher than before,"said Luis Vázquez, head of the animal inspection department in Seville, Andalusia’s capital.

The slaughtering has gathered pace particularly in the southern farming region of Andalusia, home to almost a third of the country’s horses. In Andalusia alone, the slaughtering activity almost tripled last year, to 16,391 horses from 6,256 in 2011, according to data from the regional government.

Animal rights activists warn that the number of abandoned horses is also soaring. “There are hundreds of horses whose lives are under threat right now in Spain,” said Virginia Solera, who works for Cyd Santa María, a Málaga-based association that rescues abandoned horses.

The statistics on slaughter understate the true magnitude of the problem, Ms. Solera and other activists said, because under Spanish law only horses that have been registered can be taken to a slaughterhouse. As in other sectors of Spain’s economy, the activists claim that a sizeable part of the horse business is underground.

The Agriculture Ministry said that it had been clamping down on unregistered horses and ranches in recent years, leading to a rise of 14 percent in the official census of 2011, which registered 748,622 horses in Spain.

Still, Rafael Olvera, who is director general for livestock and agricultural production in Andalusia, argued that the rise in slaughtering should still be seen “a legitimate business decision that any owner can make.” As for horses being abandoned, Mr. Olvera said, “There have been some cases, but not on the scale of a major scandal.”

Mr. Martín, the breeder, would of course prefer to sell his horses to buyers interested in keeping and raising them. On Monday morning, he was busy grooming some of the horses that he keeps and has not managed to sell since the start of the crisis, including 8-year-old Farruco, who has been earmarked for dressage, and 6-year-old Gallo, a black stallion.

Mr. Martín said he had lowered the price for his horses on average by 60 percent in the past year. He is now asking $14,000 for Gallo, for instance, compared with an initial price tag of more than $30,000.

“It used to be so easy to find buyers that I had never bothered with any marketing,” he said, “But now, even with plenty of advertising, I’m lucky if I can sell one horse a month.”
265 2013-04-10 WASHINGTON — The Federal Bureau of Investigation said it was looking into allegations by Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky that political opponents bugged his campaign headquarters.

Mr. McConnell, the Republican leader in the Senate, blamed the “political left” for an anonymous recording of a meeting at his campaign headquarters that appeared on the Web site of Mother Jones, a liberal magazine, on Tuesday morning. The recording captures Mr. McConnell and his aides outlining possible attacks on potential opponents, especially the actress Ashley Judd.

“They were bugging our headquarters, quite a Nixonian move,” Mr. McConnell said Tuesday at a news conference. “This is what you get from the political left in America these days.”

As yet, Mr. McConnell faces no serious challenge to his seat, but the 12-minute tape of a Feb. 2 meeting in Louisville suggests his team was ready with opposition research gathered by aides.

“This is the Whac-A-Mole period of the campaign,” Mr. McConnell said on the tape. “When anybody sticks their head up, do them out.”

Ms. Judd’s head was up, so to speak, amid speculation that she would run against him in 2014. Along with comments that could mark her as a “carpetbagger” and an “out-of-touch, Hollywood liberal,” aides found fodder for more personal attacks.
266 2013-04-10 Prosecutors at the International Criminal Court have accused Mr. Kenyatta, 51, of using his vast family fortune to bankroll death squads during the chaos that exploded after Kenya’s presidential election in 2007. Mr. Kenyatta has insisted that he is innocent and that the accusations are based on gossip.

But it seems no matter how forward-looking he wants to be, his presidency, at least in its early days, is going to be dogged by the past. Several Western countries, including the United States, have signaled that they will keep their distance from him because of the graveness of the allegations, though they may have a hard time doing that because Kenya is one of the West’s most important allies in Africa.

The American ambassador to Kenya, along with other Western envoys, did attend the inauguration. But even that was interpreted by some Kenyans as a snub because the Kenyan news media reported that China, for instance, had sent a high-level delegation from Beijing, and many African countries sent heads of state.

Mr. Kenyatta made a thinly veiled reference to the court in his inauguration speech, saying that “Kenya will strive to uphold our international obligations,” but that these obligations must be based on “mutual respect.” He also delivered a long list of things he planned to do: give laptops to schoolchildren, fight wildlife poachers, abolish health center fees and extend electricity.

He congratulated the nation for carrying out the most complicated election in its history, and for showing patience when the outcome was delayed by problems with the vote count. He also emphasized that he wanted Kenya to move beyond ethnic-based politics, which often erupt in violence.

“We will not settle for a perfunctory peace that is disrupted every five years by an election cycle,” he said. “Rather, we are calling and working toward a permanent peace.”

The swearing-in ceremony, held in a packed stadium in Nairobi, capped an exhausting election period that started months ago when the country’s leading politicians split into rival camps. On March 4, millions of Kenyans streamed to the polls, some waiting for 10 hours on their feet to cast ballots.

Election officials declared Mr. Kenyatta the outright winner, narrowly avoiding a runoff, but the second-place finisher, Raila Odinga, who just stepped down as prime minister, cried foul, pointing to widespread breakdowns in the election commission’s computer systems. He challenged the results, but Kenya’s Supreme Court upheld Mr. Kenyatta’s victory.

In a sign that feelings were still raw, Mr. Odinga skipped the inauguration, saying he wanted to rest in South Africa. One of his aides said Tuesday that Mr. Odinga did not want to bestow legitimacy on an election that he still believed had been rigged.

But other African leaders were there in force, squinting in the sun, watching an honor guard stand stiffly on the parade ground, beads of sweat trickling down their faces. Among the dignitaries were Goodluck Jonathan, Nigeria’s president, topped with a fedora; Salva Kiir, president of South Sudan, in his signature black Stetson; and Mr. Museveni wearing a finely tailored suit and a floppy bush-fighter hat.

At the end of the festivities, after the cannon smoke cleared and the brass horns went quiet, Mr. Kenyatta ascended the steps of an antique convertible Land Rover and made a victory lap around the stadium. He was just a high school student when his father, Jomo, died in office in 1978.
267 2013-04-10 Iran has defied United Nations Security Council demands for a halt to the uranium enrichment until questions about its nuclear intentions are answered. It has denied accusations that it intends to build a nuclear weapon and has argued that it needs the enriched uranium for energy and medical uses.

The talks in Almaty, Kazakhstan, ended late Saturday without a deal, and with no plans for a next round of discussions — capping a year of talks that by all accounts has not brought the sides any closer. At a briefing afterward, a senior American official said that Iran had not offered a detailed response to a proposal advanced by the big powers in February and that it had made unrealistic demands.

“That minimal response not only had very, very tiny steps in our view, but wanted a lot in return for those tiny steps,” the official said. “So this is a negotiation, but the gulf between their current position and ours is quite great.”

European officials said Iran had refused to suspend the enrichment of uranium to 20 percent purity, a level considered a short technical step to the higher level of purity needed for weapons-grade fuel. The Europeans also said Iran had refused to suspend work at Fordo, an underground processing plant, in a way that would make quick resumption difficult.

The officials said Iran expressed no interest in a deal to export most of its 20 percent-enriched uranium in exchange for nuclear fuel, saying it now has the capability to produce the fuel itself.

Iran’s rejection was significant because the proposal, which was made at an earlier round of talks and would have offered Iran a modest easing of sanctions, represented a softened position by the six powers, which had demanded that Iran close its Fordo plant and relinquish its entire stockpile of 20 percent-enriched uranium.

As Israel and other critics who believe the Iranians are stalling for time renewed their calls for more decisive action, negotiators for the big powers planned to confer with senior officials in London, where the Group of 8 foreign ministers were meeting this week.

Negotiators representing the so-called P5-plus-1, the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council — Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States — plus Germany, expressed hope that the impasse would give their Iranian counterparts pause.

The American official said the Iranians needed to “go back to Tehran and discuss with their government what they heard and the fact that we felt there was such a gulf that we wanted to stop and have these consultations before proceeding further.”

Mr. Ahmadinejad did not display the intended reaction. He said that Iran had opened two uranium extraction mines in the central province of Yazd and a factory in the same area to manufacture yellowcake, a form of semi-refined uranium that can be processed into nuclear fuel. The president also announced that Iranian nuclear scientists had created five new medicines and a homemade industrial electron accelerator.

Until now, the big powers have been unified in their efforts to prevent Iran from developing the capacity to make nuclear weapons. With time, though, differences may develop. Russia, for instance, has expressed more readiness than its Western partners to recognize that Iran has a sovereign right to enrich uranium for civilian purposes — a recognition that the Iranian negotiators are demanding as a precursor to any deal.

The Western powers, particularly France, are adamantly opposed to recognizing any such right without a comprehensive agreement and substantial “confidence building” measures.

In his speech, Mr. Ahmadinejad offered no signal that Iran was ready to take such steps. On the contrary, he asserted that the Western powers must win Iran’s trust. “The best way for you is to cooperate with Iran,” he said.

The next steps are unclear. Russia and China, which have opposed economic sanctions, are likely to resist further steps at the United Nations, while the Americans and Europeans have warned of imposing more on their own. The American official, speaking after the Almaty talks, noted that President Obama had repeatedly said he would “not allow Iran to acquire a nuclear weapon.”

The triumphal tone of Mr. Ahmadinejad’s announcements was undercut somewhat by a 6.3 earthquake that jolted the countryside in southern Iran near Bushehr, the site of its only nuclear power plant. Iran state news media said that the quake, which was felt in neighboring Dubai, killed at least 30 people, injured hundreds and heavily damaged two villages, but that the power plant had not been affected.
268 2013-04-10 Mr. Phillips stood out in other ways. About 6 feet 5 inches tall and not much more than 160 pounds, he was often described as a latter-day Ichabod Crane — “the man of the awkward gait and the graceful phrase,” his editors called him.

An evangelical Christian, he kept a Bible on his desk and led prayer meetings for like-minded colleagues (there were none when he joined the paper, he noted ruefully) in a conference room off the newsroom.

He refrained from smoking, drinking, cursing and , each of which had been refined to a high, exuberant art in the Times newsroom — the last of these to such a degree that at midcentury the newspaper employed two bookmakers-in-residence, nominally on the payroll as news clerks.

Mr. Phillips’s most renowned article appeared on Page 1 on Sunday, Oct. 31, 1965, under the headline “State Klan Leader Hides Secret of Jewish Origin.” It was a rigorously reported profile of Daniel Burros, a 28-year-old man who was the Grand Dragon of the Ku Klux Klan, a chief organizer of the national Klan and a former national secretary of the American Nazi Party.

Mr. Burros, the article went on to document, was also a Jew — a former Hebrew school student who had been bar mitzvahed at 13.

The article remains a case study in a reporter’s perseverance in the face of intimidation. It is also a case study in the severe, unintended consequences that the airing of fiercely guarded truths can have for the guardian: despite threatening to kill Mr. Phillips if the article went to press, Mr. Burros, in the end, killed only himself.

John McCandlish Phillips Jr. was born in Glen Cove, N.Y., on , on Dec. 4, 1927. His father was a traveling salesman, and young Johnny, as he was known, would attend 13 grammar schools across New York, and .

After graduating from Brookline High School, near , he forwent college for reporting and editing jobs on small papers. From 1950 to 1952 Mr. Phillips served with the Army at Fort Holabird, in , and it was there, he said, that he attended the church service at which he was born again.

Mr. Phillips joined The Times as a copy boy in November 1952, later working as a clerk on the city desk and in the bureau. In 1955, he was made a cub reporter and consigned to prove his mettle in the paper’s office, then a dank, decrepit outfit near Police Department headquarters in the borough’s nether regions.

His account of life there, written for Times Talk, the newspaper’s house organ (“It is impossible to tell a plainclothes detective from a mugger here. You just have to wait to see what they do”), so delighted the newspaper’s management that his sentence was commuted to service in the main newsroom.

In October 1965, The Times received a tip about Mr. Burros’s Jewish upbringing. Assigned to pursue it, Mr. Phillips, aided by newsroom colleagues, spent days reconstructing his life, scouring school, military, employment and police records; amassing photographs; and interviewing neighbors and associates.

The one thing they lacked was an interview with Mr. Burros: efforts to reach him had been unsuccessful. Finally, on a return visit to South Ozone Park, the Queens neighborhood in which Mr. Burros lived, Mr. Phillips glimpsed him on the street — “a round, short, sallow young man who looked a little like a small heap of misery,” he would later write in Times Talk.

He approached Mr. Burros, and they went into a luncheonette. The conversation, which ranged over Mr. Burros’s brilliant scholastic record — he had an I.Q. of 154 — and his rise to power in the Klan, was cordial.

Then, nearly 20 minutes into the interview, Mr. Phillips raised the subject of Mr. Burros’s Jewishness.

“If you publish that, I’ll come and get you and I’ll kill you,” Mr. Burros said. “I don’t care what happens to me. I’ll be ruined. This is all I’ve got to live for.”

By the time the two men parted, Mr. Phillips later wrote, Mr. Burros had threatened his life half a dozen times.

Mr. Phillips returned to the newsroom, and The Times arranged for round-the-clock bodyguards. He wrote his article, detailing Mr. Burros’s religious upbringing, his early fascination with far-right ideologies and his advocacy of genocide for Jews and blacks. On the day the article was published, Mr. Burros committed suicide.

The article cemented Mr. Phillips’s reputation as one of the city’s most esteemed reporters. He spent his remaining years at The Times primarily in the paper’s Metropolitan section, where his portfolio included the About New York column.

Mr. Phillips became known in particular for his coverage of the city’s vaunted, vanishing institutions, as in this 1969 article about the closing of the original Lindy’s delicatessen, which began:

“What kind of a day is today? It’s the kind of a day that if you wanted a slice of cheesecake at Lindy’s, you couldn’t get it.”

Near the end of the article, he wrote, with plain-spoken, impeccable logic:

“The locusts stripped the place of menus and ashtrays and other mementos. There were conflicting claimants to possession of the last bagel. As a souvenir, a bagel is not much good. It is perishable and it also lacks proof. Anyone can hold up a bagel and say, ‘This is the last bagel from Lindy’s.’ ”

Mr. Phillips resigned from The Times in late 1973 for a life in religion.

In 1962, he had helped found the New Testament Missionary Fellowship, a Pentecostal congregation in Manhattan. Its tenets, as Ken Auletta wrote in a 1997 New Yorker profile of Mr. Phillips, include the belief that “pornography, drugs, and any form of fornication (including premarital sex and homosexuality) are sins.”

In the early 1970s, the New Testament Missionary Fellowship made headlines after the kidnapping or attempted kidnapping of several of its congregants by their families. The families maintained that the group had trained the congregants to repudiate them.

After leaving The Times, Mr. Phillips lived, in Mr. Auletta’s account, a contented if threadbare existence, preaching the Gospel on the campus, near his home, and managing the fellowship’s affairs. The fellowship, which has long since ceased to incur unfavorable notice, is still extant, based in Upper Manhattan.

Mr. Phillips, who never married, is survived by a sister, Janet DeClemente.

He published several books, including “City Notebook” (1974), a collection of his articles from The Times, and “What Every Christian Should Know About the Supernatural” (1988).

Over the years, Mr. Phillips was asked whether he felt responsible for Mr. Burros’s suicide. He felt “a vague sense of sadness,” he said, but no guilt.

His stance — the view from the prospect where his faith and his journalism converged — was encapsulated in a remark he made to Mr. Gelb.

On the afternoon of Oct. 31, 1965, Mr. Gelb phoned Mr. Phillips to tell him, very gently, that Mr. Burros had shot himself.

“What I think we’ve seen here, Arthur,” Mr. Phillips replied, “is the God of acting in judgment.”
269 2013-04-10 Illinois’s Second Congressional District seat was left vacant for the first time in almost two decades after Mr. Jackson, 48, took a medical leave last summer and later disclosed that he was being treated for bipolar disorder. Despite a long absence from public view, the congressman won re-election in November, only to resign two weeks later, citing his ill health and acknowledging a federal investigation into his use of campaign funds for personal use.

In February, Mr. Jackson, son of the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson, the civil rights activist, pleaded guilty to one felony fraud count and admitted to using $750,000 in campaign cash to buy items like celebrity memorabilia and expensive furniture. His sentencing was scheduled for June 28.

Framed by a rash of violence in Chicago, the primary race to replace Mr. Jackson gained widespread attention because of an unexpected surge of spending by Mr. Bloomberg. His political action committee, Independence USA, ran more than $2 million worth of advertisements in the special election attacking some Democratic candidates for being friendly with the National Rifle Association. He endorsed Ms. Kelly, who wore her “F” rating by the gun lobby proudly.

Mr. Bloomberg’s group said it had not spent in the general election.

Representative Jan Schakowsky, another Illinois Congressional Democrat, said, “I think she understands that her victory had implications beyond the Second District and beyond Illinois when it comes to gun violence.”

Some former colleagues from Ms. Kelly’s days in the state legislature said they were surprised to watch guns emerge as her chief campaign issue this year. While they acknowledged that she had backed gun restrictions, issues like education, economic development and domestic violence bills stood out in their minds as some of her more passionate pursuits at the time.

“It seemed that forces outside her control really created this issue to be the issue of the race,” said Representative Aaron Schock, an Illinois Republican who served with Ms. Kelly in the legislature and will again be her colleague in Congress.

Ms. Kelly had been part of a passionate gun debate before. She has had some victories, including a 2003 measure criminalizing the practice of buying a gun for someone else in some circumstances. The bill was co-sponsored by Barack Obama, then a state senator. President Obama endorsed Ms. Kelly last week.

But she has also taken her share of legislative bruises. Almost a decade ago, as lawmakers in Illinois debated whether to ban assault weapons, Ms. Kelly, a sponsor of one such bill, would often retire to a nearby restaurant after a hard day on the House floor, spooning at an order of ice cream while nursing her wounds.

“We’d sit there and talk about how we got creamed for the day,” said Alderman Deborah L. Graham, a former state representative who sponsored some gun-related bills with Ms. Kelly. “Sometimes we’d be there, and we’d almost be in tears because the debates had been so extreme.”
270 2013-04-10 Fitch Ratings separately expressed concern Tuesday evening about the long-term consequences for China’s financial stability of the country’s huge buildup in debt, particularly borrowing by local governments. Fitch reduced its default rating on China’s long-term local currency debt to A+, from AA–.

Fitch, however, maintained its rating on China’s long-term foreign currency debt at A+, citing the country’s $3.39 trillion in foreign currency reserves, compared with just $34 billion in foreign currency-denominated sovereign debt.

The General Administration of Customs announced on Wednesday that China had a rare trade deficit of $884.3 million in March. Moody’s Analytics said in a research report that the deficit reflected a lull in exports leaving Chinese docks as many factories closed for much of February to observe Chinese New Year, while imports continued to grow.

Chinese policy makers have been struggling with two intertwined problems related to inflation.

They allowed banks to engage in a large expansion of lending and off-balance sheet credit last autumn to reverse an economic slowdown. That expansion of credit fanned fears of inflation that has already brought a sharp appreciation in real estate prices in recent months, prompting the government to renew warnings about problems of housing affordability.

But while asset prices may be rising, the price of goods has stayed weak, as many industries still face overcapacity. Companies have been unable to raise prices, often making it hard for them to make regular payments of interest and principal on their debts.

Manufacturers in China say that while the cost of materials like steel has stabilized or even fallen, wages continue to increase. “Raw material prices have so far been stable, but we have had to increase worker wages by 20 percent,” said Kevin Mao, the export business manager at the Zhejiang Zhongli Group, a manufacturer of bicycle and motorcycle locks in Wenzhou in east-central China.

Randall Liu, a sales executive at Xiamen Tawa Enterprise, a maker of wine sacks and sleeping bags in Xiamen in southeastern China, said that weak demand for exports made it hard to raise prices to cover wage increases.

“We are only able to transfer a portion of our cost increases to our end customers, so we do take a hit on our margin,” he said.

Usha C. V. Haley, the director of the Robbins Center for Global Business and Strategy at West Virginia University, said in a speech in Hong Kong on Monday that industrial overcapacity was likely to persist in China, given numerous corporate subsidies provided by the national and provincial governments. “They do want to maintain social stability and create jobs,” and so are unlikely to reduce subsidies, she said.

Chinese and World Health Organization officials said Monday that they had not documented any evidence that pigs had been dying from a recent outbreak of H7N9 avian influenza, although an investigation into the deaths continued.

The price of pork tends to follow long cycles in China that lag behind animal feed prices.

When feed prices are high, farmers raise fewer pigs, which tends to push pork prices up and feed prices down. The cycle then reverses itself as farmers rush to raise more hogs before feed prices bounce up again.

Pork prices were little changed in February, sustained by demand during the Chinese New Year, but had fallen sharply before then. Many economists had expected pork prices to begin strengthening this spring, however, before the carcasses began showing up near Shanghai. The drop in pork prices meant that overall consumer prices for all food rose only 2.7 percent in March from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said. Food prices had been up 6 percent in February. The National Bureau of Statistics has scheduled for next Monday the release of a long list of other economic statistics, including economic output during the first quarter of this year.
271 2013-04-10 8:28 p.m. | Updated &#xa;&#xa;   &#xa;For a company that promotes clean living, the nutritional supplement maker  Herbalife  has had a messy history....
272 2013-04-10 The nation&#x2019;s top banking regulators have some good news for some troubled homeowners: the checks will be in the mail soon.&#xa;   &#xa;Months after brokering a multibillion-dollar settlement with banks over mortgage foreclosure abuses, the ...
273 2013-04-10 The mortgage giants  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  continue to astound &#x2014; and not in a very encouraging way.&#xa;   &#xa;The share price of each company has tripled in the last few months, pointing to the foolishness of Wall Street, this tim...
274 2013-04-11 Joan Levy Gerard, one of bridge’s top tournament administrators and best ambassadors, died on April 5 in White Plains. She was 77.

She worked to promote bridge and to ensure its smooth running at every level of the game. She was the District 3 representative (for eastern New York, excluding New York City, and northern New Jersey) to the American Contract Bridge League board of directors for 26 years. She was the league president in 1992. She also served as president of the United States Bridge Federation.

Gerard was a league delegate to the World Bridge Federation for the last 18 years of her life. She soon became a member of the world federation’s executive committee, was a vice president from 1999, acted as chairwoman of both the appeals and teaching Committees, and was elected to the committee of honor in 2002.

She put in as many hours working for bridge as anybody.

She was also an accomplished player. The diagramed deal at a Closed Westchester Swiss Teams in 1974, when she was Joan Levy. She was partnering with Ron Gerard, whom she married in 1986.

In the given auction South opened with a somewhat eccentric one no-trump. He tried to get across the true nature of his hand when his partner responded two clubs, Stayman. Then Ron Gerard (West) had to find an opening lead against three no-trump.
275 2013-04-11 Credit: Pete Muller for The New York Times
276 2013-04-11 As part of a criminal complaint filed in court on Thursday, federal investigators detailed how the onetime KPMG executive, Scott I. London, improperly shared confidential information about Herbalife’s earnings....
277 2013-04-11 As the value of gold declines, a look back at the libertarian’s views on fiat currency....
278 2013-04-11 What sort of help should you expect if you suffer a medical problem at an independent living facility? Even legal experts aren’t sure....
279 2013-04-11 Both Paulson & Company and P. Schoenfeld Asset Management indicated on Thursday that they would support the revised proposal by T-Mobile’s parent, Deutsche Telekom....
280 2013-04-11 Microsoft’s software licensing allows you to install Office 2010 on more than one PC....
281 2013-04-11 As Verizon began recovering from the destruction caused at its headquarters in Lower Manhattan, it became clear that the flooding had even affected 12 monumental ceiling frescoes....
282 2013-04-11 A senior executive at Royal Bank of Scotland’s Japanese investment banking unit is expected to resign in the wake of a rate-rigging scandal, according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter....
283 2013-04-11 Seeking to project strength, banks sometimes shift risk without actually moving assets. | Lawmakers could be stymied in efforts to rein in banking consultants. | A KPMG executive who was fired by the firm leaked secret information to a friend on t...
284 2013-04-11 Why I’m bullish about the Japanese experiment....
285 2013-04-11 This word has appeared in nine New York Times articles in the past year....
286 2013-04-11 The city’s 311 Web site makes it easy for passengers to register a complaint about a cabdriver; “Yellow Taxi Complaint” is listed as one of nine top services, alongside grievances about a neighbor’s noise and a landlord’s inattention to maintenance. “Yellow Taxi Driver Compliment,” meanwhile, is nowhere to be found on the main page.

Yet according to administration records, 881 taxi compliments were filed, primarily on the Web site or on the 311 hot line, from the beginning of 2012 through last month. (There were over 22,000 complaints.)

Some plaudits were heaped on drivers who followed oft-ignored guidelines.

“Willing to take us to ,” one read.

“Did NOT use his phone! Unusual!” said another.

Others doubled as apologies, for forgotten tips or passenger behavior that was, on second thought, ill considered.

“We thought he was trying to cheat us,” one rider wrote, admitting that she had given the driver the wrong address. “We were irate, got the police involved etc.”

Some detailed beloved pets in various states of duress. One traveler said that her dog “had an accident in the cab,” adding, somewhat dubiously, that she did not notice until after exiting the vehicle. She said she was unsure if the seat had been damaged, but “if it was I am SO VERY sorry!”

Several authors asked how to send gifts to their drivers — typically cash, at least for local riders, though one man hoped to deliver a hat.

Clay Pipkin, 24, from Park Slope, Brooklyn, said he left his girlfriend’s diamond ring in a cab last year. After Mr. Pipkin located the driver through his garage, the ring was returned. Mr. Pipkin offered a cash reward, he said, but the driver refused.

“He said, ‘God has provided enough,’ ” Mr. Pipkin said. “I’m an atheist, but I thought that was kind of touching.”

In some cases, the compliments came not from riders but from their parents. Lori Bannon, 54, from , was on the phone last summer with her daughter, Lindsay, who was in the city for an internship, when suddenly she heard a scream.

“I hear her fall, I hear a thud, then I hear a sound of heavy breathing and running, and then her phone goes dead,” Ms. Bannon said. “A mother’s worst nightmare.”

Soon, she said, she received a call from a taxi driver. He had seen her daughter sobbing at the curb as the thief made off with her iPhone. He then coaxed her into his cab and handed over his phone so she could call Ms. Bannon as he drove her home.

“He let her stay on the phone with me the whole time, using his minutes,” Ms. Bannon said. “He saved my daughter’s life.”

Zafar Choudry, 58, who has driven a yellow taxi since 1989, received similar praise last year, after driving a disoriented partygoer to his home in Chatham, N.J.

Mr. Choudry used the man’s phone to speak with his mother for directions, since the rider was unable to recall where he lived.

“A lot happens at night times. They beat fares, they fight us sometimes,” Mr. Choudry said. “But we are sober. We should be nice.”

Perhaps the most effusive comments concerned the deft handling of the city’s traffic. “HE DROVE CONFIDENTLY,” one author gushed. Another entry described a shortcut-laden trip from to , after a passenger misread his flight information.

One submission read, in its entirety: “Mchugh. Good driver.”

A few drivers were hailed for their cabs’ amenities, including a “brilliant and bright” roof light, an “odor-free” back seat, and “signs reminding us to cover our mouths when we cough.”

Only a small number of entries seemed devoid of praise. “Middle-aged man of color,” one read. “He told us he recently attended a wedding in .”

Each driver who receives a compliment is sent a letter from the taxi commission, officials said. (Mr. Choudry said he had received four commendations from the city during his career, the most among his cab-driving friends.)

, the city’s taxi commissioner, said he was struck by how many of the compliments had little to do with driving.

“When you’re in a confined space with another person, it creates a certain intimacy,” he said, adding that being a taxi driver “might be second only to therapist as a job that gives you a window into people’s personal lives.”

For Mr. Brown, the rider whose romantic outlook was upended by a taxi ride, the driver represented “someone with a lot more experience, giving me that insight into what you should pay attention to, into what really matters.”

Since the conversation, he said, he has begun to think about settling down. But New Yorkers seeking a referral might be out of luck.

“I can’t remember the driver’s name,” he said. “I gave him a decent tip.”
287 2013-04-11 WASHINGTON — The Energy Department is preparing to test a new way for solar power to make electricity: using the sun’s heat to increase the energy content of natural gas.

Researchers at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory in Richland, Wash., hope by this summer to carry out the test, which entails a process that could cut the amount of natural gas used — and the greenhouse gasses emitted — by 20 percent.

“We can reduce carbon dioxide emissions, and the consumer doesn’t get hit,” said Robert Wegeng, the researcher in charge of the project.

The system is a marriage of chemical engineering and mechanical engineering. The process will work anywhere it is sunny, according to researchers, although it might be more valuable in places where natural gas is relatively expensive, or where a company making electricity would be paid for generating less carbon dioxide.

The project, financed with $4.5 million in federal stimulus money, is still in development, and experts say the technology’s costs have yet to be established. The process also is several major steps away from commercial viability.

Using the sun’s heat to make electricity is hardly new; as far back as 2007, companies were building plants with parabolic mirrors to boil water into steam and turn a turbine. In Australia, Areva built a plant that helps reduce the amount of coal needed to make electricity by using solar power to preheat the water that the burning coal boiled into steam.
288 2013-04-11 The video for “"El Hielo,” or “The Ice,” by the Los Angeles-based band La Santa Cecilia, was shot with a cast of undocumented immigrants, some of them leaders in the immigrant-rights movement. One is Erika Andiola, 25, of Mesa, Ariz., a 2009 graduate of Arizona State University and one of the founders of DRM Action Coalition, a group pushing for the Dream Act, a bill to grant legal status to unauthorized immigrants who were brought to the United States as children, as she was. Ms. Andiola made national headlines in January when her mother and brother were detained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement and then released after a fierce outcry by immigrant groups. Ms. Andiola, like thousands of others, has had her deportation temporarily stayed under President Obama’s “deferred action” program. She now works as an aide to Representative Kyrsten Sinema, a Democrat of Arizona. In Washington on Wednesday, before the rally for immigrant citizenship on the law of the Capitol, Ms. Andiola spoke with The Times. The interview has been edited and condensed.

Q. How did you get started in organizing and activism?

A. My plan was to be a psychologist. It didn’t work out. In 2007, I was a college student; I was accepted into A.S.U. with scholarships, and it was all good, but then a law passed that denied undocumented youth in-state tuition and any sort of financial aid at a state university. So they took my scholarships. I went through a really hard situation with that, and also my mom being raided; she was raided by the sheriff [Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County] at work. We left the house. They took my uncle, who was living there. I was really upset, and it so happened that I found another group of students who were going through the same situation. We got to know each other; in 2009, the Dream Act was introduced, and so we started organizing for it. It was my very first — I mean, I was not into politics. I barely knew who my senator was, to be honest. But I had to do it.

Q. What was it like organizing in Arizona?

A. Arizona is the type of place where if you’re not out there, if you’re not really putting yourself out there, telling your story, you can get raided. You can get deported, and nobody knows about it. This is happening every single day.

Q. Do people still get demoralized and frightened because of Arpaio?

A. Yeah, definitely. I live in Mesa, a city close to Phoenix. It was being raided very often by Arpaio; I played soccer for a while, and even going to the soccer fields, as soon as people start seeing a helicopter flying over them, they would freak out. The sheriff puts out press releases saying, “I’m going to do a raid.” Of course, people are not going to come out of their houses. That’s been the situation — even for Dreamers. If you’re a Dreamer, and you have not been able to get deferred action, you will most likely lose the privilege of getting deferred action if you get caught by Arpaio.

Q. How has this movement changed you?

A. When I was in college, I was very naïve (laughs). I thought I was going to follow the path that high school teachers tell you: You’re going to graduate, go to college, get a job, get married and have kids. The reality is, it doesn’t work that way. I learned. I stopped being so naïve.
289 2013-04-11 In 2011, Flipboard hired the former Time executive Josh Quittner as editorial director. The same year the professional networking site LinkedIn hired Daniel Roth, the head of Fortune.com, to run its editorial operations.

But not all of the experiments have been successful. For example, in January 2012, Facebook hired a recent journalism school graduate, Dan Fletcher, to be its managing editor. Mr. Fletcher’s rather amorphous job seemed to be to write stories about trends on Facebook. Last month, he announced he was leaving. He said that Facebook did not need reporters and that articles detracted from activity on Facebook, which he said was inherently more interesting.

Where onlookers stood on the seriousness of the loss of Storyboard depended on whether they believed that it was a legitimate outlet in the first place or merely a failed marketing experiment.

While Storyboard’s staff insisted that they were doing high-quality feature journalism, they were not shy in admitting that it was in service of promoting Tumblr. In an interview last December, on the online news site Capital, which covers New York, Storyboard’s editor in chief, Chris Mohney, said, “What we’re doing is marketing as journalism.”

But marketing as journalism was not also seen as a fit for the social media site.

“Tumblr’s Storyboard and editorial operation never made any sense to me. Guess I am not the only one,” Charlie Warzel, deputy technology editor at Buzzfeed.com, an online news site that has its own reporters but also has content sponsored by advertisers, wrote in a Twitter post.

In a phone interview, he added, “It is always peculiar when a social network branches out into publishing, it just seems odd to bring on even excellent editorial talent to cover what is already going on organically.”

The demise of Storyboard seemed to be taken hardest by other online journalists. Tumblr had not hired marketing people but journalists from more traditional outlets to run Storyboard. Jessica Bennett, Storyboard’s executive editor, had previously been at Newsweek/ The Daily Beast.

Her social media posts indicate that she was outside New York when Tumbr made its decision and that she was surprised by it. Ms. Bennett declined to be interviewed for this article.

Ms. Etlinger said she appreciated that journalists were disappointed but said that online news was still in a very experimental stage.

“I think we are going to see a lot of failed experiments before we see a form of journalism that makes money online,” Ms. Etlinger said.
290 2013-04-11 How can an art form be updated while maintaining its integrity? That’s the challenge when staging traditional dance for modern audiences. Sophiline Cheam Shapiro, the choreographer and director of Khmer Arts Ensemble, succeeds at this more than most. “A Bend in the River,” performed by an all-female cast at the Joyce Theater, isn’t flawless. Yet in it Ms. Shapiro peels back a layer of Cambodian classical dance — liberating the movement from heavy costuming — and shows the potential of its undulating flow.

Unfortunately, on more than one occasion, the story baffles. “A Bend in the River” is a dance of revenge involving, among other characters, Kaley, a bride who is soon turned into a crocodile; her mother; and Moha, a crocodile. While on the way to Kaley’s wedding her family reaches the point in a river where Vichek Moni, a healer, normally warns passers-by not to agitate Moha.

The healer is called to attend to a sick villager, and Kaley’s family is eaten alive, but not before Kaley warns the reptile that if it kills her mother, Kaley will be reborn as a crocodile and take revenge. (A narrator recites the synopsis and dialogue.) Kaley’s mother pleads with her daughter to reconsider: “After all, who wants a crocodile for a daughter — even after you’re dead?”

Onstage, lattice-rattan crocodile sculptures, designed by the Cambodian artist Sopheap Pich, are separated into five sections from head to tail. With knees bent and turned-out hips, dancers take careful steps that shift from the heels to the balls of their feet while demonstrating the crocodile’s swirling motion through water — shown as a towering construction of IV tubing — or moving individually by breaking the creature’s body into pieces.

The work, set to music by Sophy Him, later involves a romance between the crocodiles — it ends badly — as well as the introduction of Kaley’s fiancé, portrayed by the vivid Somaly Sao, whose strength and serenity give her upper body indelible refinement. Others, including Pharan Mot as Kaley, are just as luminous, even when charged with the sometimes awkward task of carrying pieces of the crocodile while etching the refined positions of Cambodian dance.

But having so much of the choreography revolve around the crocodiles distracts from the most ravishing part of Cambodian dance: how the movement of the arms gives the body a spiraling elasticity, and how a supple back continues that energetic line to extremely flexed fingertips and toes.
291 2013-04-11 The budget puts particular emphasis on education and manufacturing. In Mr. Obama’s view, both are critical to widespread economic growth.

At the center of his education agenda is a program that would guarantee public preschool for all 4-year-olds from families with low or moderate incomes. To pay for the plan, the administration has proposed an increase in federal cigarette taxes to $1.95 from $1.01 per pack. That would cover the $66 billion federal contribution to the cost of providing preschool over 10 years and the $11 billion cost of home visiting programs for poor families.

The budget also called for a total of $12.5 billion over the next two years to preserve teaching jobs and increase hiring as the economy recovers.

Grover J. Whitehurst, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, noted that the Obama administration was continuing its education policy of using federal money as an incentive to drive its overhaul. Many of the programs require states to comply with administration priorities to get financing.

“This is a very activist budget,” Mr. Whitehurst said. “The administration intends to use the mechanism it has used successfully to impose its policy views widely on states and, in some cases, districts.”

On manufacturing, Mr. Obama proposed some small-scale programs, including a $1 billion initiative to build manufacturing “hubs” where businesses would partner with universities and federal agencies, and a new tax credit to support communities with manufacturing bases. The White House would also increase federal research and development spending, which benefits manufacturing as well as other industries, like health care and biotechnology, to $143 billion.

Some economists question just how big a driver of job growth manufacturing can be. More companies are bringing jobs back to the United States, in no small part because of real declines in American wages. But even with the recent job growth, there are about two million fewer manufacturing jobs now than there were right before the economy tipped into recession. There are about seven million fewer manufacturing jobs than there were in the late 1970s, when employment in the sector peaked.

Manufacturing simply requires fewer workers than it once did. Factories have become vastly more productive, as processes that were once done laboriously by hand are increasingly done by machine.

As a result, much of the recent job growth has been not in low-wage, low-skill production line work, but in higher-wage, higher-skill positions. But the downside is that manufacturing probably will not be a huge driver of job growth in the coming years, with housing and health care being the more likely bets.
292 2013-04-11 “It was a bit of a dream scenario to reach out to Amar’e because of his discovering his Jewish roots and his playing basketball,” Alex Brainis, the head of Maccabi Canada’s delegation, said. “We figured that if he said yes, this would be a big recruiting tool.”

When offered the post, “Amar’e was nothing but enthusiastic,” Brainis said.

Stoudemire, who is recovering from knee surgery and may be able to return to the Knicks in the first round of the N.B.A. playoffs, will be one of the most recognizable faces at the Maccabiah, as the event is known.

The Maccabiah has long boasted of being the Jewish Olympics. It is the world’s third-largest athletic event, behind the Olympics and the Asian Games. In all, 8,500 athletes from 70 countries are expected to compete in 2013.

Canada will take 600 athletes and coaches to compete in four divisions: junior, open, masters and paralympic. The basketball roster for the open-division team — which Stoudemire will help coach — is to be completed next week, said Dore, who is also the coach at Concordia University in Montreal.

The networking that reeled in Stoudemire worked like this: Brainis, a guard, played for Dore in the 2005 Maccabiah. Dore’s assistant coach there was Glen Grunwald, a close friend who had been fired the previous year as the Raptors’ general manager but still lived in Toronto. Last year, Brainis asked Dore to call Grunwald, who by then was working as the Knicks’ executive vice president and general manager, to help make the introduction to Stoudemire. On a visit to the Knicks’ practice facility during last year’s Knicks-Miami Heat playoff series, Dore formally extended the job offer in a conversation with Stoudemire in the trainer’s room.

Stoudemire did not respond to a number of requests for comment that were made through the Knicks and one of his publicists. Still, by all accounts, he has been actively involved in his Maccabiah assignment. At last summer’s tryouts, he worked with each player. He paid particular attention to the big men, advising them on effective post moves, pump fakes and passes out of a zone.

In one scrimmage Stoudemire “came onto the court and showed how, when the big man gets the ball, the zone collapses on him, and what kind of read he should have,” said Ave Bross, a point guard on the team, who plays at McGill University.

When the Knicks visited Toronto for a mid-February game against the Raptors, Brainis and several other Maccabi Canada officials met Stoudemire for dinner. Brainis said everyone was impressed by Stoudemire’s attention to detail and readiness to get going.

“He asked specific and pointed questions not only about Israel but about the composition of the roster and whether the team would be more effective playing zone or man,” Brainis said. “It was not necessarily a conversation we were expecting to have, but we were all very impressed by his level of knowledge.

“He talked about some of the players who tried out and some who didn’t yet make a decision, waiting to hear from several pro teams. It was all in his head — he definitely didn’t come with notes. It showed that he did his preparation.”

Dore said he and Stoudemire spoke occasionally by phone and had exchanged text messages throughout this season. Stoudemire will attend the final training camp in Toronto in July before the team departs for Israel, Dore said. Canada’s first game there is scheduled for July 19, with its opponent not yet determined.

While Stoudemire has not indicated that his future career plans include coaching, Dore, a native of Woodhaven, Queens, who will be coaching the Maccabiah team for the fifth time, thinks the experience may prove insightful.

“What he’ll bring to the team is individual skill development,” Dore said, adding: “He’ll also be learning about himself, as to whether he wants to pursue a coaching career. This is his first go-round in coaching. It’ll be a great experience for him.”
293 2013-04-11 The letter said that “the researchers had sufficient available information to know, before conducting the study, that participation might lead to differences in whether an infant survived, or developed blindness, in comparison to what might have happened to a child had that child not been enrolled in the study.”

The risk the consent form did mention was far less significant: abrasion of the infants’ skin by an oxygen monitoring device. It also said there was a possible benefit to participating — a decreased need for eye surgery depending on the group the infant was assigned to.

Richard B. Marchase, vice president for research at the University of Alabama at Birmingham, said in a telephone interview that the study kept the infants within the standard band of treatment for oxygen levels — 85 to 95 percent — and that its findings would help inform a discussion by the American Academy of Pediatrics this year about standards for oxygen levels.

But the federal office critical of the consent process said in its letter that the risks of participating in the trial “were not the same as those receiving standard care.” The office stated that the consent form should have explained that “there is significant evidence from past research indicating that the oxygen provided to an infant can have an important effect on many outcomes including whether the infant becomes blind, develops a serious brain injury or even possibly whether the infant dies.”

The consent forms were written by researchers at the University of California, San Diego, a spokesman for the University of Alabama at Birmingham said, and were approved by the review boards of all 23 institutions in the study. It was financed by the National Institutes of Health.

Dr. Marchase said he had assured the office that in the future, “we will to the best of our ability let the subjects or their parents know as thoroughly as possible what previous studies suggest in terms of risk.” He added, “We are going to be very sensitive to that going forward as we look at these consent forms.”

He said that a similar group of infants born around the same time in the same hospitals who did not participate in the study, but were eligible, died at higher rates than those in the low-oxygen group. Those infants were not a control group in the study, but were similar to those in the study group, he said; they had a 24 percent mortality rate, compared with a 20 percent mortality rate for the infants in the low-oxygen group.

But Michael Carome, a physician who is the deputy director of the health research group at Public Citizen, a consumer advocacy organization, which brought the letter to the attention of the news media on Wednesday, pointed out that a study in Pediatrics in 2012 that looked closely at the two groups determined that the infants who did not participate, or were not chosen, were in worse health, and therefore more prone to die.

“To try to retrospectively make comparisons like this is very fraught because of the difference in the populations,” he said. “That’s not a valid way of doing science.”

Dr. Marchase replied that the conclusions of the Pediatrics study “are not universally accepted among those who know the field best.”

Medical ethics in the United States have improved drastically since the 1930s, when scientists conducted research on impoverished black men in Alabama in the Tuskegee syphilis experiment without explaining the objective of the study to the men or helping them get treatment once it became widely available. The experiment led to a public outcry and numerous patient protections, like the requirement of “informed consent.”

Omitting risks from a consent form these days is relatively rare, experts said, as institutions often want to reduce the chances that they will be sued. The result is voluminous forms that do more to protect the institution than to empower the potential subject.

“Informed consent has been captured by worries about legal liability, so risks tend to come billowing forward like a huge fog,” said Arthur Caplan, head of the division of medical ethics at New York University Langone Medical Center. “It’s a truth dump, so they are covered should something go wrong.”

Dr. Caplan said often in such emergency medical situations, parents often rely more on what doctors say in deciding whether to participate than on the fine print of a consent form.

Clinical treatment of premature infants has a troubled history. Attempts to treat them with higher oxygen levels that were thought to improve their odds of survival led to many cases of blindness. Premature babies need oxygen because their lungs are underdeveloped and they often need help breathing.

Doctors generally make treatment decisions based on the needs of the infant, often in consultation with parents, experts said.

“It’s usually calibrated to how the baby is doing,” said Norman Fost, professor of pediatrics at the University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health. “It’s not a fixed formula.”

A spokesman for the University of Alabama at Birmingham said that the treatment for the babies in the study was flexible, based on decisions by doctors, and that the infants were not held in rigid bands of oxygen levels.

But Dr. Carome said researchers wanted to determine the effects of two different oxygen levels, so they tried to keep half the subjects in the low zone and half in the high zone.

“They were trying to confine them to a specific region in the curve,” he said. “Making these changes does have a clinical effect.”
294 2013-04-11 The president’s views put him at the head of a small but growing faction of liberals and moderate Democrats who began arguing several years ago that unless the party agrees to changes in the entitlement benefit programs — which are growing unsustainably as baby boomers age and medical prices rise — the programs’ costs will overwhelm all other domestic spending to help the poor, the working class and children.

“The math on entitlements is just not sustainable,” said Senator of , one of the few Democrats to unequivocally endorse Mr. . “And if you’re not finding ways to reform, where do you squeeze? Well, then you squeeze early-childhood programs, you squeeze Head Start, you squeeze education and veterans.”

“There’s nothing progressive about — and no business argument for — a business or any other enterprise to invest less than 5 percent of its revenues on the education of its work force, its infrastructure and its R & D,” Mr. Warner added. “And that’s what we’re doing.”

The president’s $3.77 trillion budget, with a mix of deficit reduction through spending cuts and tax increases and new spending to spur the economy, projects a $744 billion deficit for the 2014 fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1. That is down from the $973 billion shortfall projected for this fiscal year, after four years of post-recession deficits exceeding $1 trillion.

Representative of , the Democratic minority leader, has arranged for House Democrats on Thursday to hear a debate on Mr. Obama’s proposed change in the cost-of-living formula that determines Social Security benefits. The debate will pit the A.F.L.-C.I.O. counsel, Damon Silvers, who opposes the change in the formula, and Robert Greenstein, executive director of the liberal Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, which has long supported changes to entitlement programs as part of a bipartisan deal to protect other federal spending on, for example, antipoverty programs, the nation’s infrastructure and education.

It has been evident from his first months in office that the pragmatist in Mr. Obama has made him sympathetic to the thinking of Mr. Greenstein and others. In 2009, Mr. Obama considered proposing the change in the cost-of-living formula for Social Security until Democratic Congressional leaders objected.

But now in his fifth budget and the first of his second term, he has decided over some advisers’ objections to make that proposal — and his brand of pragmatic liberalism — official.

Under the president’s budget, the government would shift in 2015 from the standard — used to compute cost-of-living increases for Social Security and other benefits and to set income-tax brackets — to what is called a “chained C.P.I.” The new formulation would slow the increase in benefits and raise income tax revenues by putting some taxpayers into higher brackets sooner, for total savings of $230 billion over 10 years.

While many economists say the new formula is more accurate, opponents say it does not adequately reflect the out-of-pocket health care expenses that burden older Americans. All Social Security beneficiaries would be affected, but Mr. Obama proposes that at age 76 they would get gradual benefit increases to offset the depletion of their private assets or pensions.

In the president’s bid to revive bipartisan talks, his budget includes other proposals from his last compromise offer, made in December to Speaker , Republican of , before their private deficit-reduction negotiations collapsed. The president’s budget would save $400 billion from Medicare over a decade, mostly from reductions to hospitals and other health care providers, but also through benefit and premium changes.

The budget’s total 10-year savings would replace the $1.2 trillion in indiscriminate across-the-board cuts, known as sequestration, that took effect March 1 after Mr. Obama and Republican leaders failed to agree on alternative deficit-reduction measures.

By this budget, Mr. Obama has forced the party’s internal fiscal debate to go public to a degree not seen since  President pushed Democrats toward the political center. Until now, attention has focused on the Republicans’ postelection divisions over defining conservatism.

Mr. Clinton’s second-term effort to address the long-term finances of Medicare and Social Security was aborted by his impeachment and then by unexpected budget surpluses that relieved the fiscal pressure to change the programs. Ultimately, Mr. Clinton left office better known for his policy of “Save Social Security First” — that is, save the surpluses to pay the approaching costs of the baby boomers’ rather than use them to cut taxes, as Republicans wanted.

Democratic Congressional leaders were muted in their support for the president’s plan and were troubled that Mr. Obama had made his overture to Republicans without any sign that they would compromise in return.

Their political concerns seemed to be validated when Representative Greg Walden of , the head of the House Republicans’ campaign committee, said on CNN that the budget was “a shocking attack on seniors.” His words were interpreted as a signal that in the 2014 midterm elections Republican candidates will again accuse Democrats of trying to cut Medicare and Social Security, even though Congressional Republicans led by Mr. Boehner have demanded Social Security and Medicare cuts throughout budget talks of the past two years.

The C.P.I change in particular “was the speaker’s idea,” said Representative Chris Van Hollen of , the senior Democrat on the House Budget Committee. “And for them to turn around and attack the president for including their proposal in his budget is so hypocritical.”

Mr. Boehner, who was dismissive before the budget’s release, tempered his criticisms afterward. He told reporters that Mr. Obama “does deserve some for some incremental entitlement reforms that he has outlined in his budget.”

Some Senate Republicans were complimentary, and later Mr. Obama had a dozen of them to dinner at the White House to discuss the budget, and gun controls. He hopes to persuade enough of them to compromise with Senate Democrats on the issues, putting pressure on House Republicans to go along.
295 2013-04-11 “France is, in terms of its size and geo-economic position, a very significant member of the euro zone and its health has a very direct impact on the overall health of the euro zone,” Mr. Rehn said.

Mr. Rehn’s approach has previously come in for tough criticism from some U.S. officials and the International Monetary Fund, which have warned that his calls for more austerity are self-defeating in cases where it restrains economic growth, leading to wider deficits and making it harder for governments in already weakened economies to pay down debt.

Gross domestic product in the 17-nation euro area is expected to shrink 0.3 percent this year, while the 27-nation Union will grow just 0.1 percent, according to forecasts made by the commission in February.

But Mr. Rehn also echoed calls made earlier this week by the U.S. Treasury secretary, Jacob J. Lew, for Germany, the biggest economy in the euro zone and one of its most robust, to do more to spur spending and help revive growth.

“I still believe, and the commission still believes, that there is much more Germany can do in order to boost its domestic demand,” Mr. Rehn said.

Germany, he said, should do more to open its service sector to competition, to increase the number of women in the labor market and to lift wages to match greater productivity. Such steps could lead to greater exports from other euro zone economies.

Mr. Rehn characterized Germany’s current-account surplus as “rather high,” but also said it would decline in coming years. He also noted that Germany’s export strength had been largely owing to strong performance outside of the Union, and in particular in Asia.

The German economy is healthy enough not to have been included in the report, which covered 13 E.U. member states described as having macroeconomic imbalances.

Those countries, including Britain, the Netherlands and Hungary, must specify how they plan to remedy their imbalances in annual economic plans that they must submit to the commission by the end of the month.

The commission has recently been given greater oversight of the Union’s national economies.

Mr. Rehn’s warnings were sternest in the cases of Spain and Slovenia, which he said were suffering from “excessive” imbalances.

In Spain, very high levels of debt, both domestically and externally, continue to pose serious risks to growth and financial stability, Mr. Rehn said, and despite significant overhauls, the country still faces “formidable challenges.”

In Slovenia, there are substantial risks to the stability of the financial sector from high corporate indebtedness that is linked to, and has an effect on, public finances, according to the report.

“Slovenia needs now to proceed swiftly and decisively” with reforms, Mr. Rehn said.

His report did not cover those countries that are already operating under international bailout programs — Cyprus, Greece, Ireland and Portugal. Their economies are monitored separately.

Unit labor costs in Italy are increasing compared with those of its peers, translating into a loss of productivity. Its specialized companies are increasingly unable to compete with those in countries like China, the report said, while the Italian banking sector remains burdened by loans in or near default.

“The potential economic and financial spillovers to the rest of the euro area remain sizable, should financial market turmoil related to the Italian sovereign debt intensify again,” the report said.

France successfully avoided a recession in 2010 to 2011, but its trade balance has been decreasing since 1997 and its external debt rose sharply in 2011, the report said. “Should these trends continue, they would increasingly push down France’s medium-term growth prospects,” it added.

As in Italy, unit labor costs in France have increased, putting pressure on the profitability of companies and hurting innovation.

“The reduced number of exporting firms, their relatively small size, as well as factors relating to the business environment are also impediments for export performance,” the report said.

“The profit margin of French companies is the lowest in the euro area,” it added.

The commission attributed France’s weak prospects to the structure of its labor market, where it is too difficult to reallocate workers to more productive areas of the economy.

Mr. Rehn was expected to join the finance ministers from the E.U. member states on Friday for meetings in Dublin.

On Friday morning, ministers from the euro area could give their approval for plans to lend Cyprus €10 billion, or $13 billion, for a bailout. But final legal approval will require the approval of governments in some donor countries, including Germany.

Euro zone ministers also are likely to reach a preliminary agreement on how to use their shared bailout fund, the European Stability Mechanism, to directly recapitalize troubled banks, as demanded by Ireland and a number of other countries.

Another main area of discussion during the meetings in Ireland will be whether to extend the maturities on bailout loans to Ireland and Portugal.
296 2013-04-11 Japan is also on guard for a potential North Korean missile launching, deploying Patriot PAC-3 missile interceptors around Tokyo as a precaution. The American military has moved two Navy missile-defense ships closer to the Korean Peninsula to monitor any North Korean missile launchings and to intercept the missiles if they threaten the American bases or Washington’s allies in the region.

South Korean military officials said that they had detected the movements of not only the Musudan but also of Scud and Rodong missiles to the North’s east coast, indicating that the North might fire those missiles together, as it had done before.

Despite warnings from North Korean leaders of impending nuclear war, residents of Pyongyang, the North’s capital, gave no sense of panic, with people planting trees and dancing in the plazas ahead of the holiday, The Associated Press, which has a bureau in Pyongyang, reported Wednesday.

The North Korean warnings also appeared to have little or no effect on the small Pyongyang community of foreign diplomats. Last week, the host government told them that as of Wednesday it could not guarantee their safety and urged them to consider evacuating.

A spokeswoman for Catherine Ashton, the top foreign policy official at the European Union, said in Brussels that despite North Korea’s “aggressive rhetoric, we judge that the situation on the ground does not justify evacuation or relocation.” The spokeswoman, Maja Kocijancic, said this message had been delivered via the Swedish Embassy to North Korea’s Foreign Ministry, along with a reminder that under the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, North Korea “has a continuing obligation in all circumstances to protect diplomatic missions and E.U. citizens.”

Besides Sweden, the European Union members with embassies in Pyongyang include Britain, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Germany, Poland and Romania.

Tensions continued to affect economic ties between the Koreas. For a second consecutive day, North Korean workers did not turn up for work on Wednesday at the industrial complex the Koreas had run jointly in a North Korean city, Kaesong. About 110 South Koreans returned home on Wednesday, reducing the number of South Koreans staying there to 297.

North Korea suspended operations at the factory park in response to continuing joint American-South Korean military drills and United Nations sanctions imposed for its Feb. 12 nuclear test.

The money earned by North Korean workers at Kaesong has been an important source of badly needed foreign currency for the North Korean government. Wednesday was a payday for North Korean workers, but with the North blocking anyone from the South from entering the industrial zone, South Korean factory owners had no way to pay their North Korean workers.

There were also signs that the tensions were starting to hurt tourism to the North. Officials in Dandong in northeastern China told tour operators to halt overland tourism into North Korea, local travel agents said, according to Reuters.

Regarding another point of friction, South Korea officially blamed North Korea on Wednesday for a series of hacking attacks that paralyzed the computer networks of three broadcasters and three banks, as well as several government Web sites, in the South last month.

The findings by a joint investigation team that included government and civilian experts underscored a new dimension to North Korea’s recent threats to attack the United States and South Korea. South Korean officials said their latest investigations confirmed that North Korea’s cyberwarfare, once limited to the spreading of propaganda through the Web, was increasingly expanding into more disruptive hacking.

“We have found enough evidence that these recent attacks and the attacks in the past originated in the same group,” said Chun Kil-soo, an official at South Korea’s Internet security agency, during a news briefing on Wednesday. “We believe North Korea was involved.”

A new wave of cyberattacks started on March 20, when the computer networks of the banks and broadcasters went down. On March 26, similar attacks using malicious codes crashed the Web sites of several provincial governments and anti-North Korea activist groups.
297 2013-04-11 Federal regulators are under pressure to rein in a multi-billion dollar consulting industry after the firms stumbled during a recent review of foreclosure abuses. But the efforts could be stymied, given regulators’ cozy ties to consultants and limited legal authority to penalize them.
298 2013-04-11 Banks have been shedding risky assets to show regulators that they are not as vulnerable as they were during the financial crisis. In some cases, however, the assets don&#x2019;t actually move &#x2014; the bank just shifts the risk to another inst...
299 2013-04-11 The Business of Being | India Hicks
300 2013-04-12 After The New York Times sat down with Jenna Marbles, she made a video answering some questions from the newspaper about her work, her puppies, and her “magical YouTube videos.”
301 2013-04-12 Wells Fargo and JPMorgan Chase reported strong earnings, but added that mortgage income was declining....
302 2013-04-12 The problem with mobile payments is it’s usually no more convenient to pay with a phone instead of cash or credit card. A recent trip to Chipotle Mexican Grill was a rare example where paying with a phone actually sped things up....
303 2013-04-12 Nike has introduced its latest line of lightweight, limited-edition footwear at the Salone Internazionale del Mobile in Milan....
304 2013-04-12 Kareem Serageldin, a former senior trader at Credit Suisse, admitted in court on Friday that he fraudulently inflated the value of mortgage bonds as the housing market collapsed....
305 2013-04-12 From fine jewelry to home goods to tropical properties, T breaks down the world of the designer India Hicks....
306 2013-04-12 Alex Timbers will direct the show, an adaptation of “Romeo and Juliet” featuring music by late singer-songwriter....
307 2013-04-12 A reconfigured 42nd-floor apartment comes with impressive views of Central Park, the Hudson River and the cityscape....
308 2013-04-12 This week, our collaborators in New Jersey got playful with both their Times choices and the writing activities they suggest for them....
309 2013-04-12 The old stuff doesn’t work anymore. And that’s why I want to hire people who are trying to create new things....
310 2013-04-12 Many parents prefer to “redshirt” a young child by holding her out of kindergarten for an extra year. This reader has the opposite problem — her just-shy-of-the-cut-off child is ready to go....
311 2013-04-12 Jason Day led the Masters after the second round, shooting a four-under 68 for a six-under 138 total and giving him a one-stroke lead over Fred Couples and Marc Leishman. The  14-year-old Guan Tianlang finished 10 shots off the lead....
312 2013-04-12 Bayern Munich faces Barcelona in the first Champions League semifinal; Dortmund will play Real Madrid....
313 2013-04-12 The chief executive, Robert Greifeld, earned a bonus of $1.35 million last year, down from a 2011 bonus of $3.59 million. But his total compensation rose to $8.9 million from $7.6 million....
314 2013-04-12 The Pittsburgh Riverhounds open their U.S.L. Pro Division season Saturday with the club’s chief executive on the roster … as a player....
315 2013-04-12 Chelsea stumbled into the semifinals of the Europa League despite losing to Rubin Kazan, and Basel also advanced by beating Tottenham in a penalty shootout. Chelsea, the reigning European champion, lost by 3-2 in Moscow but progressed, 5-4, on aggregate.

Tom Huddlestone and Emmanuel Adebayor failed with spot kicks as Basel won the shootout, 4-1, after a 2-2 draw after 120 minutes. The American Clint Dempsey scored both goals for Tottenham.

Fenerbahce and Benfica were the other teams to advance after holding on for 1-1 draws at Lazio and Newcastle.
316 2013-04-12 A veteran executive’s advice on surviving, and thriving, in Indian business....
317 2013-04-12 WASHINGTON — Most of the biggest challenges facing the Environmental Protection Agency — climate change, major new regulations on power plant emissions, biofuels production and enforcement of clean air and water laws — were virtually absent from Thursday’s confirmation hearing for President Obama’s nominee to head the agency, Gina McCarthy.

Instead, Republicans on the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee repeatedly returned to relatively arcane disputes over e-mail accounts used by top officials at the agency, whether the department had made public all the research data used in writing past regulations and whether it had pursued a litigation strategy that bypassed state environmental officials.

Ms. McCarthy, 58, is currently director of the agency’s Office of Air and Radiation and has had limited responsibilities in the areas singled out by Republicans on the committee. Unlike Mr. Obama’s recently departed E.P.A. administrator, Lisa P. Jackson, and several other predecessors, Ms. McCarthy did not have a second agency e-mail account under an alias or use a private e-mail account to help weed out the hundreds of thousands of unsolicited e-mails that pour in each year.

Republicans have been pursuing the use of secondary e-mail accounts and aliases at the agency since last year, calling it an effort by officials to evade federal open records laws. The E.P.A.’s inspector general has opened an inquiry into the matter.
318 2013-04-12 Burke said another component of the partnership will be monitoring and educating players and coaches who make homophobic remarks. Major League Baseball and Major League Soccer have suspended players and coaches in recent years for antigay comments. The N.B.A. fined Kobe Bryant $100,000 for using a gay slur during a game in 2011.

“Going forward with the N.H.L., it will be the official policy when someone says something that’s inappropriate with regard to the L.G.B.T. community, that person’s going to be on the phone with me and with gay hockey players who’ll explain what it’s like to have to deal with those kinds of remarks,” Burke said, referring to the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community.

Burke said that last July he spoke with the Devils’ Cam Janssen after Janssen made a homophobic remark during an Internet radio interview. Janssen later apologized publicly.

Burke helped found You Can Play in March 2012, after the death of his younger brother, Brendan Burke, who was gay. Brendan, a video coordinator and student manager of the Miami University hockey team, died in an auto accident at 21 in February 2010.

Their father is Brian Burke, a prominent longtime hockey executive with the Anaheim Ducks, the Toronto Maple Leafs and the United States Olympic team. He marched in the Toronto pride parade before and after Brendan’s death.

The prominence of the Burke family within the hockey community has helped drive the rapid acceptance of the project.

“I think what Brendan did, starting the discussion within the hockey community on this issue, is behind everything that’s happening now,” Patrick Burke said. “I’m certain that my father and I would not have gotten involved if Brendan hadn’t spoken up. The N.H.L. would not be where we are today without Brendan Burke.”

You Can Play has worked with N.H.L. clubs and the players’ union before, distributing a series of videos in which several professional and college sports teams have expressed support of its mission of “ensuring equality, respect and safety for all athletes, without regard to sexual orientation.” Among the N.H.L. stars who have appeared in You Can Play videos are the Rangers’ Henrik Lundqvist, the Bruins’ Zdeno Chara and the Lightning’s Steven Stamkos.

Rangers forward Brian Boyle said hockey’s emphasis on cohesiveness under pressure made it a natural place for supporting a teammate who might otherwise feel like an outcast.

“The team aspect of the game itself — sticking up for one another — it’s a team thing, a community thing,” he said. “If you go after one of our guys, we’re going to come back at you. That’s one of the biggest, most awesome things about hockey, and the successful teams have that. So if someone feels like they’re going to be excluded or ostracized, well, they shouldn’t be, and we’re all going to stick up for him.”

Asked about the initiative, Boston Bruins defenseman Andrew Ference said: “It’s not a big deal if you’re straight or gay or whatever you are, it’s a matter of being a good teammate. We take a lot of pride in viewing the locker room as a family and treating each other like brothers. If one of those brothers feels ostracized for what he is, it’s just wrong.”

Ference said he has noticed a change in the Bruins’ dressing room in the last couple of seasons as players’ awareness of gay issues has increased, with slurs once used in casual conversation disappearing.

“It was ridiculous, when you think of it, how loosely words were thrown around,” Ference said. “People didn’t give a whole lot of thought as to how that could make somebody feel if they were sitting there. Now conversation has changed, and quickly; it’s made people pause and think, ‘Maybe I shouldn’t say that,’ because it might hurt someone.”

Speaking about the possibility of an N.H.L. player coming out during his career, Ference said, “the important part is creating an atmosphere where somebody is comfortable and doesn’t have to worry about what kind of reaction he’ll get from his teammates.”

Patrick Burke said that as he has proceeded with the You Can Play initiative, he has thought about Brendan, who came out to his family in 2007.

“I went back on Tuesday and gave a speech at our old high school, Xaverian Brothers, outside Boston, and we both played on the hockey team there,” Burke said. “When I graduated from Xaverian, I didn’t leave the hockey culture in a better place. I hadn’t changed anything in that locker room.

“By the time my brother got there and was struggling with his sexual orientation, he had to face slurs, like people saying, ‘That’s so gay,’ and things like that, and I know he struggled with that. I feel as an older brother I let him down. I should have fixed things in that hockey locker room so that he felt safe. I never had that opportunity. Now, thanks to the N.H.L. and the N.H.L.P.A., we’re going to do it on a wide scale across North America.”
319 2013-04-12 On the tape, first posted online by Mother Jones magazine on Tuesday, Mr. McConnell, who is up for re-election in 2014, tells aides that “this is the Whac-a-Mole period of the campaign,” adding, “when anybody sticks their head up, do them out.”

Most of the tape includes staff members discussing negative research dug up on Ms. Judd, including a history of depression and her religious views. A recording is played of her explaining, “I enjoy native faith practices and have a very nature-based God concept.”

Last month, Ms. Judd, after flirting with a Senate bid, announced she would not run. Legal experts said that if a recording was made without the permission of Mr. McConnell’s staff, it could qualify as a felony under Kentucky’s eavesdropping law. “Simply ‘overhearing’ the conversation in the hallway is not likely a crime,” said Joshua A. Douglas, a law professor at the University of Kentucky, but recording it “could violate the statute.”

Although candidates routinely gather “opposition research” about rivals, a left-leaning watchdog group, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, asked the F.B.I. and the Senate Ethics Committee on Thursday to investigate if laws were violated by McConnell staff members who did the research on Senate time or using Senate resources.

McConnell officials said all the research was done on weekends and out of the office. The meeting in Louisville took place on a Saturday, Feb. 2. According to Mr. Conway, the Progress Kentucky activists showed up outside a meeting room as an open house for McConnell supporters was winding down. “One of them held the elevator, the other one did the recording and they left,” he told the radio station, WFPL.

He identified them as the group’s founder, Shawn Reilly, and a volunteer, Curtis Morrison. Neither responded to messages on Thursday.

Democrats still do not have a candidate willing to challenge the formidable war chest and aggressive campaign style of Mr. McConnell, though polls show only a minority of Kentuckians are committed to vote for him again.

“I think he’s clearly vulnerable; his irritation over the last week underscores that he knows that, too,” said J. B. Poersch, who formerly led the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee.

As major issues stirred to life in Congress — gun control, immigration and the budget — the circuslike diversion at home presented a further distraction for Mr. McConnell, who Democrats say is more focused on defending his seat, especially from the right, than leading his party. They noted that Mr. McConnell has sided with conservative senators in several losing battles, including proposed filibusters, in which some Republicans joined Democrats to outmaneuver him.

Mr. Benton scoffed at that notion. “I feel very confident we’ve consolidated support of Republicans,” he said. “The national Democrats have made it very clear that they want nothing better than to give Senator McConnell a tough race.”
320 2013-04-12 Images from the British import adapted from Roald Dahl’s 1988 novel....
321 2013-04-12 The weather forecast was for rain; instead, a moist haze enveloped Augusta National, softening greens and creating benign course conditions that had most everyone firing at pins and putting with relative courage.

It is said that no one wins the Masters on the first day, but some lose their chance to win. The first round played to that maxim and then some, as players positioned themselves for the weekend and only a couple of notable players slipped from contention.

Twenty-one of the top 30 players in the world golf rankings, including Tiger Woods and Rory McIlroy, were within six strokes of García and Leishman. Eleven major champions were within five strokes.

“The goal is to stay alive until the back nine on Sunday,” said Dustin Johnson, who was one stroke behind the leaders. “We all know that.”

Johnson, who grew up about an hour from Augusta, has long been considered a player with a game well suited to the Masters competition. But he has never placed higher than a tie for 30th in three Masters appearances. Thursday was just his second Masters round in the 60s.

“There are things you need to know here,” Johnson said, “and it takes a little while to learn them.”

Among those at four under par and two strokes back was the 53-year-old Fred Couples, who has finished no worse than tied for 15th at the Masters since he turned 50. The 1992 Masters champion, Couples has played his last 13 rounds at Augusta National in 19 under par. Now playing his 29th Masters, he has had five top five finishes and 11 top 10 finishes.

“I know where to miss here,” Couples said, “and I know where not to miss.”

Couples was tied with five others, including the Georgia Tech graduate and local favorite Matt Kuchar, the former Masters champion Trevor Immelman, Rickie Fowler, David Lynn and Gonzalo Fernández-Castaño.

Fernández-Castaño played recent practice rounds with his countryman from Spain, José María Olazábal, who has won the Masters twice.

“He knows this place like his backyard,” Fernández-Castaño said.

Olazábal is also responsible for the unusual putting stance used by Fernández-Castaño, who keeps his feet pressed together.

“He suggested it, and it worked,” Fernández-Castaño said. “I will listen to anything a two-time Masters champ says.”

Leishman is a 29-year-old Australian who was little known in the United States until he shot a final-round 62 to win last year’s Travelers Championship. He had been in 20th place after the third round of the event.

On Thursday, Leishman bogeyed the first hole before running off a string of 7 birdies and 10 pars, including a stretch of four consecutive birdies from the par-5 13th hole to the par-3 16th, where he sank a putt of more than 50 feet.

“That was a bomb,” Leishman said. “I don’t know how far that putt was, but it was in a different ZIP code.”

Woods played his first competitive round in the company of his girlfriend, the Olympic skiing champion Lindsey Vonn. He played cautiously but finished at two under par.

“It was a good, solid day,” Woods said. “I’m pleased. You keep the ball in play on the first day and get yourself ready for the rest of the tournament. I’m still right there.”

It is the fifth time Woods has shot 70 in the first round of the Masters; three of the other times he won the tournament.

Woods was one of 10 players at two under. McIlroy was two shots back with a 72.

The youngest player in the history of the Masters, the 14-year-old Guan Tianlang, charged back from a two-over 38 in his first nine holes to shoot one under par on the back nine, finishing at one over par.

There were a couple of notable players who posted somewhat high scores, like Bubba Watson, the defending champion, who shot 75. Nick Watney shot 78, as did Padraig Harrington.

But in the end, it was García’s brilliant play that caused the biggest stir, when expectations for him at Augusta National could not have been lower.

“I hope for the best, and if I manage to do that I will have a chance at winning,” García said with an odd, off-kilter smile. “If my best is not that good, then, you know, I’ll struggle a little bit. Today my best was pretty good, and I’m looking forward to doing the same thing the next three days. But we’ll see.”
322 2013-04-12 In a statement, Mr. Cohen said the action announced on Thursday reflected the government’s commitment to “exposing and thwarting Iran’s attempts to evade international sanctions and abuse the global financial system.”

The Treasury action also applied to a Swiss-based Iranian oil-trading company, Naftiran Intertrade, which the Treasury said was owned by the National Iranian Oil Company, which has already been blacklisted.

The American sanctions freeze the assets of blacklisted individuals and companies and prohibit American dealings with them. Foreign companies that do business with any names on the blacklist run the risk of American penalties as well.

A senior Treasury official, speaking on the condition that he not be identified by name, said it was a sign of Iran’s desperation that it had been forced into a money-laundering relationship with Mr. Zanjani that had been relatively easy to trace.

“These are Rube Goldberg-type networks, in efforts to try to get access to revenues, and not being able to do so in a way that escapes our attention,” the official said.

Mr. Zanjani, who is the chairman of more than 60 companies known collectively as the Sorinet Group, based in the United Arab Emirates, did not immediately respond to e-mail requests for comment.

But it is not the first time that he has been accused of violating Western sanctions on Iran, an accusation he has denied.

Last December, the European Union identified him as a “key facilitator of Iranian oil deals” and forbade European Union companies or individuals to do Iran-related business with him. Mr. Zanjani said at the time that he had done nothing wrong. “This is a mistake,” he was quoted by Reuters as saying.

The United States and the European Union have been using increasingly onerous economic sanctions against Iran as part of their effort to force the country to make concessions in the protracted dispute over its enrichment of uranium, which it has continued in violation of United Nations Security Council resolutions requesting a halt to the enrichment.

The West has accused Iran of seeking the capacity to build nuclear weapons, an accusation that the Iranians have denied.

The sanctions have basically banished Iran from the global banking system, caused a severe devaluation in its currency and sharply reduced its ability to sell oil, the country’s most important export.

Iranian leaders have called the sanctions useless bullying that will only harden their resolve to prevail.

At the same time, the lack of diplomatic progress to resolve the dispute has increased sentiment among Iran’s critics for even tougher economic sanctions, including a trade embargo, and has resurrected warnings from the Obama administration that “all options are on the table” — a reference to possible military action if Iran is thought to be close to the ability to make a weapon.

President Obama said last month that his administration believed that it would take “over a year or so” for Iran to achieve that ability, and sanctions advocates said the Treasury’s focus on starving Iran financially appeared to be part of that calculus.

“The Obama administration is committed to targeting the oil-related payments that are essential to Iran’s ability to replenish its dwindling foreign exchange reserves,” said Mark Dubowitz, the executive director of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, a Washington-based advocacy group that has pushed for stronger sanctions.

Mr. Dubowitz said, “The administration is in a race to intensify the pressure, and try to reach a diplomatic deal, before Iranian nuclear physics wins.”
323 2013-04-12 Financial statements are not at the heart of Mr. Ackman’s argument that Herbalife is an illegal pyramid scheme that will be the target of federal regulators. But he has complained about inadequate and misleading disclosures. It is at least conceivable that an auditor might seek to force additional disclosures.

All audit firms have risk groups that review new business, including the quality of the company to be audited, and that decide that some prospective clients are not worth the risks. It will be interesting to see if any of the other major firms conclude that the risks are acceptable, particularly given that Herbalife’s 2012 audit fee was under $4 million, which is not a large sum to a major firm. If Herbalife turns to a second-tier audit firm, it will be embarrassing to the company.

Then there is the issue of conflicts of interest. Any audit firm that did certain types of consulting work for Herbalife over the last three years might be disqualified, since the new auditor will have to review those periods.

Herbalife’s annual meeting is April 25, and it no doubt would like to have the new auditor on board by then.

Some studies have indicated that financial restatements are more likely when a new auditor is brought in, but the data involved makes it hard to know if there is a causal connection. After all, as a general rule auditors are changed only when either the client or the audit firm is unhappy about the relationship, and a dispute over accounting or even suspicion of management may be at the heart of such a split.

There is no evidence of such a split here. KPMG has been the company’s auditor since before the company went public in 2004, and the two seem to have been getting along fine. If Herbalife’s new auditor does seek to force a restatement, that will be seized upon by advocates of mandatory auditor rotation as support for their argument that auditor independence is inevitably compromised by long tenures of the incumbent firm, and that companies should be required to change firms every decade or so. Such a requirement is fiercely opposed by the accounting industry, but it has been approved by the Dutch Parliament for companies in the Netherlands.

This controversy could also give new life to a proposal by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the American audit regulator, to force the disclosure of the name of the lead partner on each audit in a company’s annual report. That is already required in some countries, but the industry has fought it here, and it is not clear that James R. Doty, the accounting board’s chairman, can persuade two of his four colleagues to join in adopting such a rule.

The industry has a variety of objections to such a rule. It argues that providing a name would dilute the collective responsibility of the firm for each audit and that providing a name could make a partner an innocent scapegoat if it turns out that he or she failed to uncover a fraud.

That sense of secrecy played out in the disclosures from KPMG this week. The auditing firm announced the departure of an unnamed “rogue” partner late Monday night, after it had notified the two companies and regulators.

On Tuesday, Mr. London’s name began to circulate, and he went public to declare he was the man involved and admit he had leaked information.

Mr. London was the audit partner in charge at KPMG’s Los Angeles office, supervising more than 500 accountants, which presumably gave him the authority to seek information on the progress of audits other than the ones he was directly supervising. KPMG’s statement said he had leaked information on “several West Coast companies,” and said it had resigned as auditor of two companies, which it did not name.

Mr. London now faces criminal and civil charges. Bryan Shaw, the golfing friend who paid for the tips, faces civil charges. Once caught, Mr. Shaw turned in Mr. London. The charges say that Mr. London gave Mr. Shaw insider tips on earnings and mergers from 2010 through last month and that Mr. Shaw made more than $1 million on illegal trades. In return, Mr. London received about $50,000 in cash, as well as jewelry and concert tickets.

KPMG’s chief executive, John B. Veihmeyer, says the firm will file its own suit against Mr. London.

At other auditing firms, there was surprise at how little it took to get Mr. London to commit acts that destroyed his career and may lead to prison. An auditor in Mr. London’s position would be expected to earn an annual salary in the high six figures.

The charges say Mr. London provided information on three other KPMG clients. Two of the leaks were related to takeovers that subsequently took place, meaning that the companies no longer were independent and did not need their own auditors. The third company, a shoe company named Deckers Outdoors, remains a KPMG client.

KPMG seems to believe that because Mr. London was not in charge of the Deckers audit, its independence was not compromised and it therefore did not need to resign or withdraw its past audit certifications.

For KPMG, its salvation may be, once again, that there are only four firms in the Big Four, and no one wants to reduce that to three. Mr. London’s lawyer, Harland Braun, said in an interview with CNBC that federal officials had been “relieved” when Mr. London assured them that no one else at KPMG was involved. The investigators had been concerned, he said, that Mr. London might be “the tip of an iceberg” of corruption at the firm.

In 2005, when KPMG signed a deferred prosecution agreement stemming from its marketing of illegal tax shelters, it agreed to maintain an effective compliance and ethics program. It does not seem to have done that, at least in one office. But no one expects the government to claim that agreement was violated, a move that could force KPMG to face the original criminal charges. For big accounting firms, there is strength in — low — numbers.
324 2013-04-12 Problems with defense lawyers’ e-mails and computer files prompted a military commission judge on Thursday to postpone a pretrial hearing that had been scheduled for next week in the case of a detainee accused of helping to plot the 2000 bombing of the destroyer Cole.

It was the latest delay to bog down the death-penalty case against the detainee, a Saudi named . His last hearing, in February, was cut short when prosecutors asked that his be evaluated, apparently to foreclose any future appeal based on the potential argument that he was not competent to assist in his defense.

The latest delay traces back to an effort by Pentagon technical staff to find records about plea negotiations in another tribunal case. The records had been requested by a appeals court, according to several military officials. But when prosecutors began going through the records, they discovered that they included confidential e-mails between defense lawyers. Prosecutors alerted the defense and the court to the problem, but several additional searches continued to sweep up confidential records.

The problem brought to light the potential accessibility of confidential lawyer-client e-mails to outsiders. As a result, the chief military commissions defense lawyer ordered all military defense lawyers not to use their e-mail system until it can be made secure.

“We need to try to get some idea of the scope of the intrusions, and the second piece of it is how do they get fixed,” said Richard Kammen, a civilian defense lawyer for Mr. Nashiri. “It’s not realistic to practice law in an environment where outside agencies can come in and look at attorney-client or work product materials.”

Compounding the problem, according to the defense lawyers, was an effort by military technicians to synchronize their files between their computers in the United States and at the base, which resulted in the apparent loss of some seven gigabytes of data — as well as several confidential prosecution files showing up on the defense lawyers’ servers.
325 2013-04-12 During a legislative hearing this year related to hydraulic fracturing, Representative James L. Keffer, Republican of Eastland, made a reference to what he thought was an unfair portrayal of the industry in the film “Promised Land.”

“My wife’s seen it, she didn’t like it, so don’t go if you haven’t,” Mr. Keffer said at the hearing, which featured testimony from oil and gas representatives.

Friendliness toward the drilling industry is typical for Texas, where many lawmakers receive campaign contributions from oil and gas groups or have investments in drilling companies. The three elected members of the Railroad Commission of Texas, which oversees the oil and gas industry, have received significant contributions from the very industry they regulate.

Critics say that the industry exerts excessive control over elected officials, especially in boom times. But lawmakers and the drilling industry say that the donations are the way things operate. And lawmakers say that they make their decisions based on the best interests of the state.

Mr. Keffer, who heads the House Energy Resources Committee, holds an interest in a fund that specializes in mineral rights. His broad stock portfolio includes shares in well over a dozen oil and gas companies, according to a 2011 filing with the Texas Ethics Commission. He received nearly $73,000 in the 2011-12 election cycle from the industry, according to the left-leaning nonprofit group Texans for Public Justice.
326 2013-04-12 According to the British medical journal BMJ, an Austrian doctor who had worked in Dubai was convicted of premeditated murder in absentia in 2012 for disconnecting the life support from a quadriplegic patient. The doctor, Eugen Adelsmayr, said that “the verdict was shocking and not understandable,” and that he had been cleared of any wrongdoing by two medical bodies, according to The National, an English-language newspaper in the emirates. He was convicted while on leave in for his wife’s funeral and has not returned, the newspaper reported.

Dr. Karabus also appears to have run afoul of the country’s medical liability laws, which sometimes treat malpractice claims as criminal matters.

His case has received so much attention that the World Medical Association issued a warning last week “advising doctors thinking of working in the U.A.E. to note the working conditions and the legal risks of employment there.”

Officials in the United Arab Emirates did not return telephone calls seeking comment.

The charges against Dr. Karabus stem from his treatment of a Yemeni girl with leukemia in October 2002. The doctor, through his family, gave this account of the girl’s illness and death: She was very sick, but her parents refused the recommended treatment, a , and she did not respond well to two rounds of . She began showing signs of a , and she died a few days later. A few weeks after that, Dr. Karabus went home to .

A nurse later told the girl’s parents that Dr. Karabus had failed to give the patient a transfusion of platelets and that this had contributed to her death from the brain hemorrhage, his family said. The nurse claimed that Dr. Karabus had falsified the medical records to indicate that she had been given platelets. Based on this evidence, Dr. Karabus was convicted of manslaughter and forgery in absentia. His family says it received no notice of the conviction.

Dr. Karabus, who used temporary jobs like the one in Abu Dhabi to supplement his government pension, might never have had to face the issue had he not stopped in Dubai on Aug. 18, 2012. He was traveling with his wife; his daughter, Sarah, who is also a pediatrician; and her husband and two children. Because of a long layover, the airline had booked rooms for the family in a hotel, the daughter said.

Leaving the airport required a day visa, and the other family members received theirs quickly at the airport. But Dr. Karabus’s visa took longer for some reason, so he urged his daughter and her family to go ahead to the hotel. Once he got his visa, Dr. Karabus went to the desk to enter Dubai, but he was arrested instead.

“They said to him, ‘You are a murderer; you are wanted by Interpol,’ ” his daughter said.

When the rest of the family returned to the airport to find Dr. Karabus’s distraught wife, they tried to stay in the country to find out what had happened to him. But Emirati officials ordered them to board their scheduled flight to Cape Town and leave Dr. Karabus behind.

“I said, ‘We’ve got to stay; we can’t leave him here,’ ” his daughter said. “The authorities said they wouldn’t renew our visa and we had to leave.”

A long, fretful flight took them home. It took two days for the South African Embassy to make contact with her father. The family scrambled to find a lawyer in the emirates and navigate a confusing, foreign legal system.

On Aug. 21, Dr. Karabus was taken to court, but the prosecution asked for a delay because it could not find the court file, Dr. Sarah Karabus said. It was the first of what would ultimately be 11 court appearances, many of them resulting in postponements. At first, he was held in jail and denied bail, his family said, and was not allowed to call home.

On Oct. 11, he was granted bail. The judge in the case asked that a team of medical experts examine the girl’s medical records and other evidence.

The Karabus family tried to get back to normal life. But Dr. Karabus, a burly patriarch, could only watch from afar, via . When his son, whose wedding he had attended in August, had a son, Dr. Karabus attended the ritual through video chat. When the family gathered for , Dr. Karabus joined them via Skype, though his wife, Jenifer, broke down in sobs, forcing the family to shut down the video connection.

Meanwhile, the case against Dr. Karabus dragged on. Files were perpetually missing or incomplete, the family said. On March 18, the expert medical committee met, and the next day it gave a report absolving Dr. Karabus of negligence in the girl’s death. The judge acquitted Dr. Karabus of the charges.

An official in the prosecution’s office said the nine-member panel of medical experts had absolved Dr. Karabus because there was not enough evidence to support the charges.

Still, Dr. Karabus’s ordeal is not over. On March 28, the prosecution said it would appeal the decision. A court hearing was to be held on Tuesday, but it was postponed until April 23, his daughter said, because a court file was missing.
327 2013-04-12 Most of the murals are colorful and have strong graphic images or words or both. Mr. Bochner, for example, has a created a bright blue background with “BLAH” scribbled over the entire surface in white lettering.

Colossal Media, from Brooklyn, is working from the artists’ images to do the actual painting on the shutters. Next to each mural will be a telephone number that viewers can call to hear the artist talking about the project. “It’s a cellphone audio guide,” Ms. Villareal said.

Right before the “Rain Room” closed in March, crowds waited more than 12 hours outside the Barbican Center in London to see it. Visitors would walk into a space where it was pouring rain and not get wet. Created by Random International, three artists who met when they were students at the Royal College of Art in London in 2005, the installation became a sensation, attracting about 77,000 visitors in the five months it was on view.

The Museum of Modern Art is bracing for the same kind of response when the “Rain Room” arrives at a vacant lot to the west of the museum’s building on 54th Street and Avenue of the Americas from May 12 through July 28. Composed of a 5,000-square-foot field of falling water, the “Rain Room” is programmed digitally to create a carefully choreographed downpour that uses motion detectors to create a dry path for viewers.

Klaus Biesenbach, director of MoMA PS1 in Long Island City, Queens, and chief curator at large at MoMA, said the “Rain Room” was part of Expo 1, PS1’s exploration of the current state of the environment. “The ‘Rain Room’ makes you feel the forces of nature,” Mr. Biesenbach explained.

He is also initiating other projects at PS1 that deal with the environment. These will include “Your Waste of Time,” by the Icelandic artist Olafur Eliasson. That work, which will be on display from May 12 to Sept. 2, incorporates several blocks of ice harvested from a beach in Iceland after naturally separating from glaciers. The blocks contain traces of volcanic ash. Visitors will be able to walk through the installation, so they can examine them closely.

Spring at the National Gallery of Art in Washington isn’t just about the crowds in town to see the cherry blossoms. It’s also about the crop of acquisitions made possible by the trustees and patrons who are members of its collectors committee for contemporary art.

This year’s crop is by a more familiar group of artists than those who have appeared in seasons past. “We’re continuing to fill out our collection of art from the 1960s,” said Harry Cooper, curator of modern and contemporary art. Two sculptures fall into that category. One is “Piano/Piano,” by Richard Artschwager. Conceived between 1963 and 1965 but not created until 2011, for an exhibition at the Gagosian Gallery in Rome, it is one of the artist’s lighthearted wood laminate boxes — a hybrid of Pop and Minimalism — this one with two keyboards. The Gallery also acquired the German artist Hans Haacke’s “Condensation Wall,” from 1963-66. The piece, an example of kinetic art, is composed of a transparent, boxlike environment in which viewers see drops and rivulets water evaporating. “It’s very moist and beautiful,” Mr. Cooper said.

Both works went on view recently in the gallery’s East Building. They aren’t the only new additions. Also on view is “I See a Woman Crying (Weeping Woman),” a video by the Dutch artist Rineke Dijkstra. It shows 11-year-olds at Tate Liverpool in England who have been asked to talk about a painting, Picasso’s “Weeping Woman.” Last year the video was included in a retrospective of Ms. Dijkstra’s work at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York. It is being shown through Labor Day in the West Building Project Room.

Starting Friday visitors to the Metropolitan Museum of Art will get a sneak peek at one highlight of Leonard A. Lauder’s landmark collection of Cubist art, which he has promised to the museum in one of the most important gifts in its history. Although an exhibition of the entire collection — 33 works by Picasso, 17 by Georges Braque, 14 by Fernand Léger and 14 by Juan Gris — is planned for the fall of 2014, Picasso’s “Woman in an Armchair (Eva),” his 1913 painting of his mistress Eva Gouel, will go on view for at least three months in a first-floor gallery of modern and contemporary art.
328 2013-04-12 Gazprom, the state-owned energy monopoly better known for heating houses and powering factories in Europe, is making a bet that natural gas cars are an alluring market for future growth, at home in Russia and in other European countries that have bought its gas. All the ingredients are in place for adoption of natural gas vehicles in Russia, the world’s second-largest gas producer after the United States, with economic and environmental payoffs.

Economically, it’s no contest at the pump compared with gasoline because natural gas, whose main component is methane, is so abundant and cheap in Russia. It costs about $2 a gallon less than gasoline. (For such comparisons, compressed gas is measured by its cost for a volume containing the same amount of energy as a gallon of gasoline.)

Lax regulations in Russia have already provided a foothold for natural gas for cars. Even before the auto industry officially joined in, do-it-yourself kits were readily available. Unlike the hybrids and plug-ins produced by brand-name automobile companies, many of the natural gas cars in Russia are aftermarket conversions. In Russia, a complete system can be bought for less than $1,000 at a roadside repair shop in parts of the country where natural gas is commonly used, like the region around Krasnodar.

Natural gas fuel systems in the United States, in contrast, are handled with extraordinary care. High standards are set for the tanks of compressed gas.

An advocacy group, Natural Gas Vehicles for America, estimates certified aftermarket kits are available for about 40 models of cars and trucks and cost $12,000 to $18,000.

Four factory-equipped natural gas and dual-fuel cars are for sale in the United States today: the Honda Civic NG, the Dodge Ram 2500, the Chevy Silverado and the Ford F-250.

Long-haul truckers, fleet car operators and railways are adopting methane, Dave McCurdy, president of the American Gas Association, said in a telephone interview.

In Russia, natural gas has been adopted by lower-income and rural drivers, along with farmers and operators of light-duty trucks, said Yevgeny N. Pronin, director of the National Gas Motor Association of Russia, and also an executive at Gazprom in charge of marketing gas for transportation.

Gazprom, though, would like to see wider adoption. A large Russian carmaker, Russian Machines, this year announced a policy, endorsed by Gazprom, to include natural gas systems as standard on buses and light utility trucks, like the Gazelle.

The Russian government and Gazprom, though, are just now pressing aggressively for a switch to natural gas at home, where prices are about tied with the United States as the lowest in the world.

The wholesale price for natural gas at the Henry Hub in Louisiana, a standard contract for gas in the United States, was $3.33 per million British thermal units in February; the government-set domestic natural gas tariff in Russia this year is expected to average $3.87 for the same quantity.

This is about a quarter of the wholesale price of natural gas in other industrialized countries, like Britain or Germany, according to a study of Russia’s gas market released by Bank of America Merrill Lynch in February, meaning vehicle owners in Russia and the United States have the most to gain from converting to natural gas from gasoline or diesel.

The biggest issue in Russia, as it will be in any country that tries a conversion, is where drivers can refuel.

In both the United States and Russian conversions, a dashboard switch allows a driver to choose the fuel type, and most drivers keep their gasoline tanks filled as a reserve.

The United States has about 170,000 gasoline stations but only 1,200 filling stations where methane is sold. The Department of Energy estimates 112,000 vehicles in the country run on natural gas.

Russia, with a population just less than half that of the United States, has only 267 natural gas filling stations and an estimated 86,000 natural gas vehicles, according to a fact sheet prepared by Gazprom.

“Gazprom considers the natural gas fuel market development as a profitable core business,” Gazprom said in a statement. “The company is planning to establish a vast natural gas market on this basis.”

Gazprom’s strategy for promoting natural gas as a vehicle fuel has focused until now principally on its export markets in Europe, where greater demand could help prop up prices undercut by a global glut in natural gas supply, including from American shale gas production. But because Gazprom links its natural gas prices to oil prices in Europe, it cannot compete on price for transportation fuel.

Gazprom in Europe highlights the environmental advantages of methane compared to gasoline or diesel, which are substantial.

It sponsors an annual natural gas-powered car rally through Europe, called the Blue Corridor, to encourage the construction of natural gas filling stations and the easing of regulations.

Just this week, during a visit to Germany by President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, Gazprom signed an agreement with Volkswagen to become the exclusive fuel supplier to the German carmaker’s natural gas racecars, the methane-burning rockets on a new racing circuit for ecologically clean gas cars, called the Volkswagen Scirocco R-Cup. Nine races are planned this year.

For the everyday driver, of course, a chief concern is still arriving in one piece.

“The first issue is that people are afraid their car will blow up,” Mr. Pronin of Gazprom said.

In relatively wealthy areas, like Moscow, few people want to risk it for the sake of fuel economy. Methane is stored in a gaseous but highly compressed form. The pressure inside an automobile methane tank is about 100 times as great as that in a tire.

Russians still recall, with shudders, the fear of bursting tanks on substandard methane-fueled cars in the late 1980s.

The Soviet Union made a push to adopt natural gas in cars, to free up crude oil for export and ease the late-Soviet economic crisis. By dictate, central planners created 400 natural gas filling stations, most now defunct.

In 1989, the Soviet Union even tested a passenger jet powered by natural gas, the Tupolev-155, which packed, unnervingly, a large liquefied natural gas tank in the rear of the plane in place of the last rows of seats. It never went into production.

Aleksei Y. Bankovsky, a chief mechanic at Italgas, a shop offering vehicle conversions outside Moscow, dismissed such catastrophic fears.

In fact, the tanks cannot explode: for that, oxygen would need to mix with the methane inside and have a source of ignition. Tanks are hardened against crashes and designed to vent rather than burst in fires.

Lower-quality tanks do, though, sometimes rupture from the pressure of being filled. Then, bits of tank and car go flying.

“It’s unpleasant but not fatal,” he said, unless somebody is smoking nearby.
329 2013-04-12 Last year, the Blue Angels flew over Fleet Week crowds in the city before heading to the air show at Jones Beach. And, the Navy brought the U.S.S. , an amphibious assault ship with a crew of more than 1,000, to .

All told, more than 6,000 sailors, officers and crew members arrived in New York City last May aboard several ships that docked on the West Side of Manhattan, in and on , according to the Navy.

The Coast Guard will not be sending the cutters and helicopters that usually participate in Fleet Week because of the budget cutbacks, said a spokesman, Carlos A. Diaz. “We are limiting personnel and asset involvement in community relations events as well as limiting travel for nonessential activities, such as exercises, conferences, training and public outreach, in order to better support operations as we manage the effects of these reductions,” Mr. Diaz said.

On Thursday, city officials said they understood that no military ships would be coming to New York this year. They did not yet know what would happen without the ships and their crews.

“It’s been a great event for the city, and we will continue working closely with the Navy to explore how we can continue to celebrate the commitment of our servicemen and women,” said Evelyn Erskine, a spokeswoman for Mayor , who learned of the Navy’s decision from a reporter.

It caught others by surprise as well: The Navy League of the United States, New York Council, is holding a dinner on April 18 at the Waldorf-Astoria to raise money for events it sponsors for military personnel visiting during Fleet Week.

“We’re very concerned about cutbacks in regard to a signature event for educating the public about the need for the Navy, the Marine Corps and U.S.-flagged merchant ships,” said J. Robert Lunney, a retired admiral and president of the council.

The absence will also be felt by restaurants, bars and other businesses that the crew members and their families patronize, especially along the West Side. Paul Barbay, an owner of Hurley’s, a pub on West 48th Street, said business picked up during Fleet Week.

“It’ll be three deep with sailors Friday and Saturday nights,” he said. “The regulars buy them drinks, and the girls buy them drinks. They don’t really pay for too many drinks.”

At Lace Gentlemen’s Club on Seventh Avenue, the manager, Timothy Brighton, estimated that business increased 30 to 40 percent during Fleet Week.

“Definitely, this will kill business,” Mr. Brighton said. He reminisced about how men in uniform had packed the club’s floor during Fleet Weeks gone by.

“Guys and girls come in groups,” he said. “They always make it fun and we always make it fun for them. Definitely fills up the room even more. They’re relieving stress. They’re really cool. We’ve never had a problem. We love it when they’re here.”

Fleet Week clearly would not provide the usual surge of energy and activity without the thousands of men and women in uniform. So would it even be fair to call it Fleet Week?

“Oh no, no,” Mr. Lunney said. “Fleet Week by definition is the ships, the fleet.”
330 2013-04-12 To other Democrats from rural Republican states, however, the landscape does not look all that different, especially if they are standing for re-election next year. Only two Democrats, Mark Begich of Alaska and Mark Pryor of Arkansas, voted against Thursday’s procedural vote to break a filibuster to take up the gun legislation. But others are in question for the final votes.

“We might feel good about passing something new, but what we need is already law,” Mr. Begich said after the vote, echoing the traditional gun-rights argument that greater enforcement of existing laws — not additional legislation — would suffice.

Besides Senators Begich and Pryor, there are other Democrats in question for the final gun votes. Max Baucus of Montana, Mary L. Landrieu of Louisiana and Kay Hagan of North Carolina all face tough races next year — and tough choices now.

“I don’t support the bill, but I support open debate,” Mr. Baucus, who won the endorsement of the N.R.A. in 2008, said after the vote. “Montanans are opposed to this bill — by a very large margin.”

The political perils for such Democrats are real, said Vic Fazio, a former California representative who headed the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee in 1994 when a four-decade Democratic House majority was swept away. There were other issues — tax increases, a failed health care overhaul — but gun control loomed large, he said. The N.R.A.’s power may have diminished since then, he said, but it has also concentrated in rural, conservative states.

President Obama, until Newtown, had been a dutiful subscriber to the theory of avoiding the gun issue at all cost since the early days of his first presidential run. As recently as the second presidential debate with Mitt Romney in October, the president greeted a voter’s question on assault weapons with a meandering answer that started: “We’re a nation that believes in the Second Amendment, and I believe in the Second Amendment. We’ve got a long tradition of hunting and sportsmen and people who want to make sure they can protect themselves.”

And supporters of the current push seem to accept that Democratic losses are inevitable.

“It’s going to be a very tough vote for a small handful of Democrats,” said Senator Chris Murphy, Democrat of Connecticut and one of the bill’s shepherds. “Regardless of whether we get 52 or 55 Democrats, we’ve always known we need Republicans.”

Democrats like Ms. Heitkamp staked their conservative claims on guns. Her last campaign commercial of 2012 declared “schools and tractors and guns” to be “part of how we live.” Six days after the slaughter at Sandy Hook Elementary, she called the Obama administration’s gun proposals “way in extreme of what I think is necessary or even should be talked about.”

Senator Pryor, one of the most endangered incumbents next year, stood up for expanding background checks to sales at gun shows in 2011. Now he is not so sure. “As a general rule, people in Arkansas do not want any gun control,” he said Wednesday. “It’s just sort of a blanket statement.”

In 2008, after a close election, Mr. Begich, a former Anchorage mayor, cited his opposition to gun control and support for oil drilling as key to his success. In 2009, Mr. Begich, Mr. Baucus and another Democrat now in play, Jon Tester of Montana, wrote letters to Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. saying he should enforce existing gun laws rather than propose additional ones.

To vote for any gun safety legislation now will create a double trap for someone like Mr. Begich. Republicans will attack the vote itself, and accuse him of saying one thing to constituents and doing another when in the political hothouse of Washington.

“It’s an issue that will reveal whether they are in touch or out of touch with the people in their state,” said Brad Dayspring, a spokesman for the National Republican Senatorial Committee, which has already begun goading the 2014 Democrats in their home states.

As if to prove the political calculus, Mr. Tester, who does not face another campaign until 2018, is taking a very different line from the senior senator from his state, Mr. Baucus. The package is more a refinement of existing laws, not an expansion, he said Thursday, and he is inclined to support them.

“I think there’s an opportunity to do some good things and ensure Second Amendment rights,” he said.

Other swing-state Democrats are trying hard to counter the pressure being brought to bear against them. Senator Tim Kaine, Democrat of Virginia, was governor during the 2007 mass shooting at Virginia Tech and pressed for expanded background checks. The effort fell short, but it earned him the enmity of the N.R.A., which had already opposed his run for governor.

He still prevailed in his Senate run last year, and said he has concluded the power of the organization’s leadership is vastly overrated. He has been making that case to other members, he said.

Mr. Manchin has been pressing as well. While meeting with Newtown families on Wednesday, he called on the rifle association to post the details of his background-check legislation on the group’s Web site “and let members of the N.R.A. like me vote on it.”

One after another, the family members praised the burly West Virginian for what they called courage and perseverance.

“I have no courage compared to you all,” he answered tearfully.

But it was not clear whether emotional appeals can break through, even from Mr. Manchin.

“I think the world of Joe,” Ms. Heitkamp said. “I think Joe’s worked very hard to forge a compromise, but in the end it’s not what any other senator believes. It’s about what the people of North Dakota believe.”
331 2013-04-12 Federal prosecutors in Los Angeles and securities regulators brought insider trading charges against a former top KPMG executive.
332 2013-04-12 AUGUSTA, Ga. &#x2014; Minutes after his four-under par 68 made him the clubhouse leader, David Lynn said his runner-up finish at last year&#x2019;s P.G.A. Championship helped him avoid any nervousness in his first Masters on Thursday.&#xa;   &#xa;...
333 2013-04-13 Inflation is sticky, it seems....
334 2013-04-13 Each Champions League semifinal will pit a German club against a Spanish one: Bayern Munich and Barcelona will fight for the right to play the winner of Dortmund versus Real Madrid. The final is in London on May 25. In the second-tier Europa League, Chelsea will play Basel of Switzerland, and Fenerbahce of Turkey will play Benfica of Portugal.
335 2013-04-13 Several human rights and civil rights groups wrote a letter asking the Obama administration to take essential steps to reform the nation’s policy regarding drone killings....
336 2013-04-13 Pictures From the Week in Business
337 2013-04-13 Gina McCarthy, the head of the agency’s air and radiation office that wrote the rule, has been tapped to head the E.P.A. Her nomination is currently before the Senate.

Newer power plants burning natural gas already easily meet the new standards, so the rule presents little obstacle for new gas plants. But the rule would have effectively killed any new coal-fired plants, because they emit nearly twice as much carbon per unit of electricity as natural gas plants and there is currently no available technology to bring their emissions under the limit.

Coal today provides about 40 percent of electricity generation in the United States and is the single-largest source of emissions associated with global warming.

The new rules do not apply to existing plants, but the acting administrator of the E.P.A., Robert Perciasepe, said this week that the agency expected to propose a standard for existing power plants sometime in the next 18 months. The new plant rule must be completed before the agency can finalize standards for existing plants.

Coal industry officials and coal-state politicians denounced the rule for new power plants as part of what they termed the administration’s concerted “war on coal” and flooded the E.P.A. with hostile comments. Utility industry officials pointed out that the new rule broke with past agency practice by lumping all types of power plants under a single emissions standard, rather than adjusting the limits depending on location, fuel source, combustion technology and other factors.

Industry officials said they expected the agency to rewrite the rule to provide more flexibility and to allow different limits for different types of plants.

Jeffrey R. Holmstead, who led the E.P.A.'s air quality office in President George W. Bush’s administration and who now represents business clients, said the agency had concluded that the standard as proposed would not survive a certain court challenge.

“I think E.P.A. recognizes that what it proposed just flies in the face of what the statute says and what E.P.A. has been doing under the Clean Air Act for the past 40 years,” Mr. Holmstead said.

“There’s no way it can stand up in court,” he said. “They cannot simply declare that the best technology for building a coal plant is to build a natural gas plant.”

Mr. Holmstead said it was not surprising that the agency was missing a deadline for a rule this complex and controversial.

“The E.P.A. misses more deadlines than it meets,” he said.

David Doniger, the director of the climate and clean air program at the Natural Resources Defense Council, said that “the delay in completing this standard is regrettable, but despite industry hopes, there is no actual evidence that E.P.A. is planning to weaken its proposal.”

“The reason no one is building new coal plants is that they can’t compete with gas and wind, even without new standards,” Mr. Doniger said. “Millions of Americans concerned about climate change sent in public comments demanding strong carbon pollution standards for both new and existing plants, and E.P.A. needs to act without further delay.”
338 2013-04-13 The American conductor David Robertson and the French pianist Pierre-Laurent Aimard share a gift for devising programs that juxtapose old and new works in fascinating ways. So it was on Thursday night at Avery Fisher Hall, when Mr. Robertson conducted the New York Philharmonic with Mr. Aimard as soloist.

The main item was the American premiere of a concerto by the French composer Tristan Murail, “Le Désenchantement du Monde” (“The Disenchantment of the World”), a Philharmonic co-commission written last year. To set a context for this new work of French modernism, Mr. Robertson opened the program with Olivier Messiaen’s early orchestral work “Les Offrandes Oubliées” (“The Forgotten Offerings”), completed in 1930 when the composer was 21.

These pieces were complemented by Mozart’s Piano Concerto No. 23 in A and Beethoven’s Second Symphony. But a surprisingly placid performance of the Mozart concerto, in which the usually brilliant Mr. Aimard seemed tentative, undermined the overall effect of this adventure in programming.

The concert started with a glowing account of the 10-minute Messiaen work. For Messiaen, a Roman Catholic, music was an expression of spirituality and the search for the divine. This piece, structured in three sections, is like a meditation. It begins with a transfixing episode in which celestial chords provide an ethereal background to a searching melodic line mostly for high strings. The middle section is a violent contrast, full of slashing chords and ferocious outbursts. The final episode, to be played “with great pity and great love,” is suffused with elusive, aching harmonies and another searching melodic line.

Mr. Aimard made his reputation as a formidable champion of contemporary music. He has also played a great deal of standard repertory, including an acclaimed recording of Bach’s “Art of the Fugue.” But in the Mozart concerto he was curiously wan, especially in the slow movement, which is like an almost tragic siciliano dance. The finale, a rousing rondo, started off well. But toward the end, Mr. Aimard (playing from memory) took a wrong turn during a flight of passagework and dropped out for a moment. Things can happen in any performance. But he did not seem fully at ease in this piece.
339 2013-04-13 “The F.D.A. has spoken,” Mr. Mister said. “We are urging the industry not to manufacture products with DMAA. Retailers should heed the advisory as well.”

A lawyer for USPlabs, the Dallas company that markets Jack3d and OxyElite Pro, said his client disagreed with the F.D.A.’s position.

“USPlabs continues to believe that DMAA is legal, or otherwise they would not be selling it,” said the lawyer, Peter B. Hutt of Covington & Burling in Washington.

As of Friday afternoon, GNC was still selling Jack3d (pronounced “Jacked”) on its Web site as a “hot buy.” A company spokesman did not return requests for comment.

Vitamin Shoppe appears no longer to be stocking Jack3d, and now offers only Jack3d Micro, a newly formulated product that does not contain DMAA.

The F.D.A. warning comes as the agency faces mounting pressure from medical researchers, sports organizations and investigations in the news media to take action on the stimulant.

In late 2011, the Defense Department pulled products containing DMAA from stores on military bases, pending an investigation into the deaths of two soldiers who died after they used the stimulant. Last month, an article in The New York Times described the death of one of those soldiers, Michael Sparling, who collapsed during a training run with his unit in 2011 after taking Jack3d and died soon after. The Sparling family has filed a lawsuit against GNC, where he bought the product, and USPlabs.

On Friday night, the NBC News program “Rock Center With Brian Williams” was scheduled to broadcast a segment on Mr. Sparling and DMAA products.

Mr. Hutt, the USPlabs lawyer, said the F.D.A. made its announcement to get out in front of the NBC report and shield itself from being criticized for lax enforcement.

“This is the agency’s customary attempt to protect itself,” Mr. Hutt said. “These reports rely on a plaintiff’s unsubstantiated allegations. There is no evidence that the soldier’s death was caused by DMAA.”

Although health regulators in at least seven countries, including Canada, have effectively banned supplements containing DMAA, the products have remained widely available at supplement stores in the United States. Some medical researchers say federal health regulators should have warned American consumers much earlier.

“We’ve had hundreds of millions of dollars spent on products that should have never been on the marketplace to begin with,” says Dr. Pieter Cohen, an assistant professor at Harvard Medical School who studies dietary supplements. “There’s no reason the F.D.A. should have waited to warn the public of the dangers of consuming the ingredient.”

A year ago, the F.D.A. issued letters to 10 companies that marketed DMAA products, saying the stimulant did not fit the legal definition of a supplement as a vitamin, mineral, herbal or botanical ingredient used to supplement the diet. The stimulant was originally developed in the 1940s by Eli Lilly, the pharmaceutical company, as a nasal decongestant called Forthane, but the drug maker officially withdrew the medicine from the market in the 1980s.

Among the companies that received the federal warning letters last year, all but USPlabs agreed to stop marketing DMAA products, according to the F.D.A. advisory. USPlabs submitted published studies on the ingredient in an effort to challenge the F.D.A.’s position, the advisory said, but the agency found the information “insufficient to defend the use of DMAA as an ingredient in dietary supplements.”

Mr. Fabricant said the F.D.A. intended to take further steps to remove the stimulant from the market. Although he declined to comment specifically on USPlabs, the agency’s options in such cases generally include asking a supplement maker for a voluntary recall of potentially hazardous products, seizing such products or instituting a mandatory recall.

“We are going to use all of the tools available to us to get this out of distribution,” Mr. Fabricant said.
340 2013-04-13 HOUSTON — An environmental case that has pitted Chevron against Ecuadorean Amazon villagers for two decades has taken another bizarre twist, with an American consulting firm now recanting research favorable to the villagers’ claims of pollution in remote tracts of jungle.

The consulting firm, Stratus Consulting of Boulder, Colo., announced late Thursday that it had originally been misled by Steven R. Donziger, a lead lawyer for the Ecuadorean villagers, and had decided to disavow its contributions to scientific research about whether there was groundwater contamination that sickened the residents in swaths of rain forest.

The move prompted the plaintiffs to assert that Chevron was coercing parties to the case, citing this as another example of strong tactics employed by the company as it tries to overturn an Ecuadorean judge’s decision two years ago that it pay $18 billion in damages, one of the largest environmental awards ever. In this instance, the plaintiffs claim that Chevron pressured Stratus to retract its assessment in exchange for dismissal of legal claims in a countersuit filed by Chevron made against the firm — claims that could have pushed the consulting business into bankruptcy.

“Stratus deeply regrets its involvement in the Ecuador litigation,” the firm said. It remains unclear whether this development with Stratus will have much impact on Chevron’s appeals, because the judge also based his ruling on other environmental assessments. The judge ruled that back in the 1970s, Texaco had left an environmental mess in oil drilling operations while operating as a partner with the Ecuadorean state oil company, and that Chevron, which bought Texaco in 2001, must apologize for and was liable for the damage.

Chevron has refused to apologize. In addition to appealing the decision in the Ecuadorean courts, Chevron also filed a countersuit in federal court in New York against Mr. Donziger and Stratus Consulting, accusing them of racketeering and fraud. Because Stratus has now retracted its statements on the Ecuadorean pollution, Chevron agreed not to pursue claims against the firm anymore. On Friday, Chevron filed witness statements from Douglas Beltman, a Stratus vice president, and Ann Maest, a Stratus scientist, in which they now say they were not aware of scientific evidence of groundwater contamination in the former Texaco concession area or of any adverse health impact to people from the operations.
341 2013-04-13 Caitlin Hayden, a spokeswoman for the National Security Council, said the administration was “committed to institutionalizing and explaining to the Congress and the public as much as possible about our drone policies, including the process for making strike decisions.” She added: “Our approach is marked by scrupulous adherence to the rule of law.”

By the count of the New America Foundation, a research group that tries to track targeted killing, the United States has carried out 422 strikes in Pakistan and Yemen, 373 of them since Mr. Obama took office in 2009, in addition to a handful in Somalia. The foundation estimates the number of deaths resulting from the strikes to be between 2,426 and 3,969, of which about 10 percent were of civilians and nearly as many of which were identified as “unknown.” An overwhelming majority of the strikes have been carried out by unmanned drone aircraft, though cruise missiles, fighter jets and helicopter gunships have also been used.

Agreeing to the degree of openness sought by the human rights groups would mean a sea change for the Obama administration. Though officials have given a series of careful speeches on the administration’s legal reasoning, the Justice Department’s classified legal opinions on the subject have been shared only recently, even with the Senate and House Intelligence Committees, and the government has asserted in battling Freedom of Information Act lawsuits that the Pakistan strikes are too politically delicate even to be officially acknowledged.

Gabor Rona, the international legal director of Human Rights First, said that the letter to Mr. Obama reflected increasing concern that government secrecy has hidden grave legal and practical problems with the strikes.

“The more the administration is rightly forced to disclose about who it is killing and why,” he said, “the more obvious it becomes that the practice is growing, is illegal in its scope, is causing large-scale civilian casualties and is a slow-moving train wreck with serious blowback consequences to U.S. national security.”

In pushing for greater candor, both the human rights groups and Congress are responding to Mr. Obama’s own stated goal. In his State of the Union address in January, the president said: “In our democracy, no one should just take my word that we’re doing things the right way. So, in the months ahead, I will continue to engage with Congress to ensure not only that our targeting, detention and prosecution of terrorists remains consistent with our laws and system of checks and balances, but that our efforts are even more transparent to the American people and to the world.”

No action has followed so far. In announcing his plans for a Judiciary Committee hearing, Senator Richard J. Durbin, the Senate’s second-ranking Democrat, noted that Mr. Obama “has made it clear he wants to work with Congress to establish ‘a legal architecture’ for drone strikes to prevent abuses.” Mr. Durbin said the hearing would “begin this important constitutional debate.”

The Obama administration has been asked to provide a witness to discuss its position on the drone strikes, but the administration has so far not agreed to provide one, according to the committee’s staff. Similarly, efforts on Thursday by Representative Jan Schakowsky, Democrat of Illinois, to get John O. Brennan, formerly the president’s counterterrorism adviser and now the C.I.A. director, to discuss strike policies during a hearing of the House Intelligence Committee went nowhere.

“I would say right now that I am at the helm of the C.I.A. and will carry out policy guidance as directed by the administration,” Mr. Brennan said.

Ms. Schakowsky was prompted to question Mr. Brennan in part by an article this week by McClatchy News Service reporting that it had obtained classified government documents showing that the drone strikes had killed hundreds of low-level suspected militants whose identities were not known. The article suggested that the documents undercut assertions by Mr. Obama and his aides.

“There are a lot of things that are printed in the press that are inaccurate, in my mind, and misrepresent the facts,” Mr. Brennan said. When Ms. Schakowsky pressed the point, he said, “I’m not going to engage in any type of discussion on that here today, congresswoman.”
342 2013-04-13 Jonathan Harshman Winters was born on Nov. 11, 1925, in Dayton, , where his alcoholic father (“a hip Willy Loman,” according to Mr. Winters) worked as an investment broker and his grandfather, a frustrated comedian, owned the Winters National Bank.

“Mother and Dad didn’t understand me; I didn’t understand them,” he told Jim Lehrer on “The NewsHour With Jim Lehrer” in 1999. “So consequently it was a strange kind of arrangement.” Alone in his room, he would create characters and interview himself.

The family’s fortunes collapsed with the Depression. The Winters National Bank failed, and Jonathan’s parents divorced. His mother took him to Springfield, where she did factory work but eventually became the host of a women’s program on a local radio station. Her son continued talking to himself and developed a repertory of sound effects. He often entertained his high school friends by imitating a race at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway.

A poor student, Mr. Winters enlisted in the before finishing high school and during World War II served as a gunner on the aircraft carrier Bon Homme Richard in the Pacific.

After the war he completed high school and, hoping to become a political cartoonist, studied art at Kenyon College and the Dayton Art Institute. In 1948 he married Eileen Schauder, a Dayton native who was studying art at . She died in 2009. His survivors include their two children, Jonathan Winters IV, of Camarillo, Calif., known as Jay, and Lucinda, of , Calif.; and several grandchildren.

At the urging of his wife, Mr. Winters, whose art career seemed to be going nowhere, entered a talent contest in Dayton with his eye on the grand prize, a wristwatch, which he needed. He won, and he was hired as a morning disc jockey at WING, where he made up for his inability to attract guests by inventing them. “I’d make up people like Dr. Hardbody of the Atomic Energy Commission, or an Englishman whose blimp had crash-landed in Dayton,” he told U.S. News and World Report in 1988.

After two years at a television station, he left for New York in 1953 to break into network radio. Instead he landed bit parts on television and, with surprising ease, found work as a nightclub comic.

A guest spot on Arthur Godfrey’s “Talent Scouts” led to frequent appearances with Jack Paar and Steve Allen, both of them staunch supporters willing to give Mr. Winters free rein. , after seeing Mr. Winters at the New York nightclub Le Ruban Bleu, booked him as the first comedian to appear on his arts program

In his stand-up act, Mr. Winters initially relied heavily on sound effects — a cracking whip, a creaking door, a hovering U.F.O. — which he used to spice up his re-enactments of horror films, war films and westerns. Gradually he developed a gallery of characters, which expanded when he had his own television shows, beginning with the 15-minute “Jonathan Winters Show,” which ran from 1956 to 1957. He was later seen in a series of specials for in the early 1960s; on an hourlong variety series, “The Jonathan Winters Show,” from 1967 to 1969; and on “The Wacky World of Jonathan Winters,” in syndication, from 1972 to 1974.

Many of Mr. Winters’s characters — among them B. B. Bindlestiff, a small-town tycoon, and Piggy Bladder, football coach for the State Teachers’ Animal Husbandry Institute for the Blind — were based on people he grew up with. Maude Frickert, for example, whom he played wearing a white wig and a Victorian granny dress, was inspired by an elderly aunt who let him drink wine and taught him to play poker when he was 9 years old.

Other characters, like the couturier Lance Loveguard and Princess Leilani-nani, the world’s oldest hula dancer, sprang from a secret compartment deep within Mr. Winters’s inventive brain.

As channeled by Mr. Winters, Maude Frickert was a wild card. Reminiscing about her late husband, Pop Frickert, she told a stupefied interviewer: “He was a Spanish dancer in a massage parlor. If somebody came in with a crick in their neck he’d do an orthopedic flamenco all over them. He was tall, dark and out of it.”

One of Mr. Winters’s most popular characters, she appeared in a series of commercials for Hefty garbage bags, which also featured Mr. Winters as a garbage man dressed in a spotless white uniform and referring, in an upper-class British accent, to gar-BAZH. Carson kidnapped Maude Frickert and simply changed the name to Aunt Blabby, one of his stock characters. Mr. Winters said that the blatant theft did not bother him.

Mr. Winters often called himself a satirist, but the term does not really apply. In “Seriously Funny,” his history of 1950s and 1960s comedians, Gerald Nachman described him, a bit floridly, as “part circus clown and part social observer, Red Skelton possessed by the spirit of Daumier.”

He was hard to define. “I don’t do jokes,” he once said. “The characters are my jokes.” At the same time, unlike many comedians reacting to the Eisenhower era, he found his source material in human behavior rather than politics or current events, but in him the spectacle of human folly provoked glee rather than righteous anger.

In 1961 Variety wrote, “His humor is more universally acceptable than any of the current New Comics, with the possible exception of Bob Newhart, because he covers the mass experiences of the U.S. common man — the , the gas station, the airport.”

Mr. Winters did much of his best work in nightclubs, but he hated life on the road. In 1959 he suffered a nervous breakdown onstage at the hungry i in and briefly spent time in a mental hospital. Two years later he suffered another collapse, and soon after that he quit nightclubs for good. From 1960 to 1964 he recorded his most-requested monologues for Verve on a series of albums, notably “The Wonderful World of Jonathan Winters,” “Here’s Jonathan” and “Jonathan Winters: Down to Earth.”

The conventional television variety show did not suit Mr. Winters, but film did not seem the right medium for him either. Scripts stifled him. “Jonny works best out of instant panic,” one of his television writers in the 1960s said. He thrived when he could ad-lib, fielding unexpected questions or pursuing spontaneous flights of fancy. In other words, he made a brilliant guest, firing comedy in short bursts, but a problematic host or actor.

In the 1970s and ’80s, Mr. Winters was a frequent guest on “The Andy Williams Show,” “The Tonight Show” and “Hollywood Squares.” He played Robin Williams’s extraterrestrial baby son, Mearth, on the final season of “Mork & Mindy,” and he kept busy with voice-over work in animated television series and films. He also published a book of his cartoons, “Mouse Breath, Conformity and Other Social Ills,” and a collection of whimsical stories, “Winters’ Tales.”

More influential than successful, Mr. Winters circled the comic heavens tracing his own strange orbit, an object of wonder and admiration to his peers. “Jonathan taught me,” Mr. Williams told the correspondent on “60 Minutes,” “that the world is open for play, that everything and everybody is mockable, in a wonderful way.”
343 2013-04-13 “We’ve just crossed the threshold,” said William F. Browder, once a prominent foreign investor in Russia who lobbied Congress to pass the law requiring sanctions after his lawyer died in a Moscow jail. “This is the end of impunity. This is a historic moment and the United States has made a very strong statement about human rights abuses.”

Russia has assembled its own list of Americans to ban, dubbed by some the “Guantánamo list,” in reaction to Friday’s move. “We will respond to it, and the American side knows it,” said Sergey V. Lavrov, the foreign minister. “The timing is bad.”

The move could undercut any good will engendered by an Obama administration decision to scale back missile defense in Europe. But there were signs the two sides hoped to keep the issue from escalating further. Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, said the administration was “very frank and candid” with Moscow about human rights but “we will engage with the Russians” on other important matters.

Moscow evidently expected the American action to be tougher. The newspaper Kommersant reported that the government had identified 104 Americans to ban if necessary. Aleksei K. Pushkov, the hawkish head of a parliamentary international affairs committee, told the Interfax news agency that the Obama administration was “taking the minimalist path” to avoid a deeper political crisis before Mr. Donilon’s visit.

Administration officials recognized that release of the list, required by Saturday under the law, would complicate Mr. Donilon’s visit. But they decided to proceed with the trip anyway because Mr. Obama is to meet with Mr. Putin on the sidelines of an economic summit meeting in Northern Ireland in June and then travel to Russia in September.

Of the 18 Russians identified on the unclassified list, all but two are tied to the death of Sergei L. Magnitsky, the lawyer for Mr. Browder who was investigating official corruption only to be arrested and die in custody in 2009. His death became a cause célèbre for Russia critics, and the American sanctions law was named for him.

Among those targeted Friday were investigators, tax officials, judges and prison supervisors connected to Mr. Magnitsky’s case. The other two were Chechens implicated in prominent murders: Lecha Bogatirov, accused of gunning down Umar S. Israilov, a Chechen dissident, on the streets of Vienna in 2009, and Kazbek Dukuzov, accused of murdering the American journalist Paul Klebnikov in Moscow in 2004.

Many of those penalized were already barred from obtaining visas and it is not clear whether any of them have assets in the United States. Even so, Russians complained that the blacklist makes those on it pariahs and will make it hard for them to travel or invest in Europe.

“What is important for the Russian authorities is the fact that this list exists at all,” said Aleksei Makarkin, an analyst at Moscow’s Center for Political Technologies. “For the first time, there is officially some number of Russian officials considered guilty of violating human rights.”

Elena A. Panfilova, director of Transparency International in Russia, said that the officials had plenty of time to transfer any vulnerable property, but that: “It’s all about sending a message. If you restrict somebody’s rights, expect someone to restrict yours.”

American officials said the list was only the beginning. “This is not a one-time-only act,” said a senior administration official who briefed reporters on the condition of anonymity. “The law makes clear that additional names should be added as additional information becomes available.”

Even so, the list disappointed lawmakers and rights activists in Washington. Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, called the announcement “so damaging” because the list was not robust enough. He vowed new legislation to go after abusers.

Representative Jim McGovern, a Massachusetts Democrat, had sent the administration a list of 280 Russians compiled by Mr. Magnitsky’s family for possible sanctions, including senior officials like Yuri Y. Chaika, the country’s general prosecutor.

Lawmakers like Mr. McGovern wanted the administration to apply the sanctions to anyone about whom there was “credible information” on rights violations. But the Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control required a higher degree of evidence normally used with economic sanctions, because if challenged in court, it will have to justify depriving people of assets.

“While the list is timid and features more significant omissions than names, I was assured by administration officials today that the investigation is ongoing,” Mr. McGovern said.

David J. Kramer, president of Freedom House, an advocacy group, said he wished the list were longer but was encouraged that it went beyond the Magnitsky case. “The key now is to keep this as an ongoing process by which more names can be added,” he said.
344 2013-04-13 “When we talk to firms, they think social media is a new thing, and they’re trying to control the risk of it,” said Alex Pigliucci, global managing director of the wealth and asset management business at Accenture. “I see these tools as an advantage today. They’re not something to plan for in the next five to 10 years.”

“The Out-of-Sync Advisor,” a report by Deloitte, imagined technology bringing clients who were managing their own money back to advisers and then allowing those advisers to give people with a couple of hundred thousand dollars the type of high-quality advice reserved for people with hundreds of millions of dollars.

Ed Tracy, leader of the wealth management and private banking practice at Deloitte, said this would be possible only if all the clients’ financial information was already in the system so the advisers could spend their time together talking about the clients’ goals.

Fidelity’s annual broker and adviser sentiment index, released late last year, tried to put a dollar amount on all of this: technology-adept advisers who were focused on clients in their 30s and 40s managed, on average, $8 million more than colleagues focused on baby boomers. Their clients also had slightly larger accounts. (Not in the data was how technology contributed directly to this.)

But is there any practical value to investors in this push for more technology? In some areas, yes. In others, it remains to be seen.

Patrick O’Connor, senior vice president for wealth, retirement, portfolio solutions at Raymond James, said some of the best technological innovations reminded him of a recent visit to his new dentist.

Instead of pointing to a murky X-ray and telling him to floss, his dentist wheeled around a monitor that showed his teeth — and the problems with them — from various angles. A bit more brushing here and flossing there, and the image changed to show healthier teeth.

“She was giving me more ownership of my teeth,” Mr. O’Connor said. “I’ve been much more diligent about flossing and paying attention to those areas. Before, I would have ignored her. I’d been lectured to for 10 years.”

Technology, he said, can do much the same thing for investors, showing them how they are doing and the consequences of their spending and saving. The technology also becomes the bearer of bad news, not the adviser. “Instead of saying, ‘Sorry you’re in the red,’ I become the facilitator in getting you from the red to the green,” he said.

And technology can help clients reduce mundane and time-consuming tasks and increase the amount of time they can talk about the things that matter most to them.

“If someone had my data, understood my goals, had buckets in my portfolio and I knew if I was on track or off track and they only spent three hours a year with me, I’d feel a lot better than I would with someone I sat down with who said, ‘Tell me what’s going on,’ ” Mr. Tracy said.

Yet when it comes to social media, it is easier to see how technology could go awry. My first worry was an adviser sending off a Twitter post after a night on the town; my second was an investor acting on that post.

Firms worry about that, too. Mr. O’Connor said a compliance officer checks advisers’ comments before they are posted.

Angie Herbers, who runs a research and consulting firm named after her that is aimed at independent advisers, said that she was not convinced that social media brought in more clients and that they could be more of a liability to established clients.

“The risk is you can imply something that you don’t wish to imply to clients or future clients,” Ms. Herbers said. “Let’s say you tweet out a great article and some of your clients read it. You have no control over how they react to it.”

Advisers, she said, “are on social media to educate clients or potential clients, but I believe they’re creating more stress than anything else.”

Mr. Pigliucci disagreed, arguing that social media could help clients understand more complicated products on their own time. “If it’s really working well, it’s more than some tweets and Facebook postings,” he said. “If the adviser sends a message and then says, ‘Here’s a link that discusses the strategy I’m talking about,’ and you can look at it and think about it a bit more, it’s interacting using online education.”

Still, many firms are transfixed by the prospect of technology bringing in more and younger clients. Do social media help the actual clients, both the younger ones that firms are going after and the older ones who presumably have more money?

Mitchell S. Rock, a senior vice president at Morgan Stanley, was in the first group that the company allowed to use social media in 2011. He said it had been an additional marketing tool for his group, though it had not replaced in-person meetings or even cold calling.

“We don’t use Twitter because we’re limited to sound bites,” he said. “LinkedIn has been very effective. It allows you to position yourself and drive prospects from your LinkedIn account to your Web site to your desk.”

He said some of his success in using social media was tied to the narrowness of his practice, which was easy to pitch: it is focused on owners of privately held middle-market companies who are about to sell the companies.

And while social media have been good to him, Mr. Rock was measured on their usefulness to clients. “Social media has allowed us to cast a wider net and get in front of our target market, but it’s still important to have a strong idea to deliver,” he said.

In other words, it is good for clients to hear about advisers with a specialty that could help them. But they still need to be just as vigilant as they always were in vetting those advisers.

Investors who fear what technology could do to their financial plan can take some comfort in the fact that their meetings with an adviser — at least for people with enough money — are likely to continue for a while. People with less to invest may have to settle for a video chat on their computer.

But whether this push into technology is going to make the advice better is debatable. Ms. Herbers likened the rush to adopt technology to watching a football game when people start to stand. “Sometimes at a football game, if someone in front of you stands up, you can still see perfectly well if you look around him,” she said. But if everyone else is on their feet, “you feel foolish if you don’t stand up.”

Remember that the next time your adviser tries to wow you with some new technology, and ask if it will change the outcome of the game.
345 2013-04-13 A four-day rally in the stock market came to an end on Friday as signs of a slowing economy rattled commodity markets, weighing down energy and mining companies.

The price of crude oil dropped 2 percent, to $91 a barrel, as weak United States economic reports followed forecasts for diminished demand for oil.

Gold plunged $64, to $1,501 an ounce, reaching its lowest level since July 2011.

One cause for the latest plunge was a government report that wholesale prices in the United States fell the most in 10 months in March. Traders tend to sell gold when inflation wanes. Traders also pushed gold prices lower on reports that Cyprus may sell some of its gold reserves, possibly prompting other weak European countries like Italy and Spain to do the same.

Compared with the commodities markets, the stock market looked stable. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped just 0.08 of a point to close at 14,865.06. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index lost 4.52 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,588.85.

The two major indexes finished the week with strong gains: The Dow rose 2.1 percent, and the S.& P. 500 rose 2.3 percent.
346 2013-04-13 Secretary of State John Kerry warned North Korea not to test-fire its Musudan missile and said the nation would lose if a conflict broke out....
347 2013-04-13 But Mr. Rehn also underlined that officials in Ireland and Portugal had to stick to promises to overhaul their economies, including the kind of painful belt-tightening that has been criticized for restraining growth, leading to wider deficits and making it harder for governments to pay down debt.

“Ultimately it is the combination of growth-enhancing structural reforms and consistent fiscal consolidation that will firmly re-establish investor confidence and ensure that the Irish and Portuguese people can put this very hard crisis behind them and move on,” Mr. Rehn said.

Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the president of the so-called Eurogroup of finance ministers, said at the same news conference that the authorities in Portugal, where the Constitutional Court recently overturned some austerity measures, would be able to pass “compensatory measures” to control spending.

The ministers are struggling to fend off a return to full-blown crisis mode in the euro zone as the ramifications of the Cypriot bailout become clearer and as other concerns, including the perilous state of the economy of Slovenia, another euro member, rise up the agenda.

The Cypriot bailout raised questions about whether efforts to save the euro were on course. Investors were rattled by terms that included raiding the savings of uninsured depositors and by a forecast this last week by the troika of international bodies overseeing bailouts that the downturn in the Cypriot economy over the next two years would be far more severe than expected just weeks ago. Unemployment is already near 15 percent.

The worry now is that Cyprus may eventually need another bailout to keep it as a member of the euro area. On Friday, the ministers gave their political approval to the terms of the bailout, which involves euro zone member states contributing 9 billion euros in loans and the International Monetary Fund providing 1 billion euros. The deal still needs approval by some national Parliaments.

Officials said the first payments of aid to Cyprus from the bloc’s bailout fund, the European Stability Mechanism, could take place in mid-May.

Mr. Rehn said that there would be further aid for Cyprus, but that it would involve directing more structural money to the country, rather than changing the total amount of the bailout.

Cyprus must raise billions of euros to stay within the terms of the bailout, and one option is for its central bank to sell gold reserves. Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, said at the news conference that the decision would be left to the central bank of Cyprus. But he added that “profits made out of the sales of gold should cover first and foremost any potential loss that the central bank might have” from the emergency liquidity assistance that has been provided by the European Central Bank.

Another concern that has overshadowed the gathering is slow progress among euro governments on policies meant to break the so-called doom loop, where member states incur enormous debts bailing out their banks.

In recent days, Germany raised new concerns about a proposal to create a single banking supervisor for the European Union under the aegis of the central bank.

The creation of the single supervisor is a precondition for the European Stability Mechanism to be tapped to directly recapitalize struggling lenders. Pumping bailout money to banks themselves avoids putting the loans on national balance sheets and should help keep a lid on sovereign borrowing costs. Ireland and Spain are among the nations lobbying strongly to speed the change.

The single supervisor must also be in place before other elements of a banking union can be put in force, including a system for euro area countries to share some of the burden of shutting down failing banks, a system that would have a clearly defined hierarchy of creditors, including shareholders, bondholders, uninsured depositors and funds contributed by banks and governments.

In recent days, German diplomats made clear in Brussels that they had some reservations about giving the central bank such broad supervisory powers. Their concern was that the central bank might alter its monetary policies to make it easier to perform its bank supervision duties.

Late on Friday, the Germans won agreement that there should be steps to lock in the separation of the two areas of responsibility the next time that the union’s treaties are revised. That prospect had alarmed some European officials, who fear opening up the treaty at a time when Britain’s calls for significant changes to the pact have irritated other member states.

They were also worried that the prospect of a future treaty alteration would jeopardize the legal bias of the banking supervision system.

Analysts said the German demands were tantamount to delaying tactics, and showed how much the government in Berlin, which faces an election in September, was resisting committing to measures that could mean sharing the cost of bailing out banks in member states with weaker economies.

“I think this shows the government slowing down the prospects for ever directly injecting aid into banks,” said Megan Greene, the chief economist at Maverick Intelligence in London.
348 2013-04-13 Wall Street knew the craze wouldn&#x2019;t last.&#xa;   &#xa;The nation&#x2019;s biggest banks, capitalizing on government efforts to bolster the housing market, have raked in handsome mortgage profits of late. On Friday, that started to change....
349 2013-04-13 WASHINGTON &#x2014; Organizing for Action, the grass-roots group that grew out of President Obama&#x2019;s campaign machine, raised just shy of $4.9 million in the first quarter of 2013, according to an e-mail to the group&#x2019;s supporters.&#xa...
350 2013-04-13 The Old Globe Theater in San Diego will open its 2013-14 season with &#x201C;The Last Goodbye,&#x201D; a  long-in-development adaptation of &#x201C;Romeo and Juliet&#x201D;  set to the music of  Jeff Buckley .&#xa;   &#xa;Conceived and adapted by ...
351 2013-04-14 ’42,’ a baseball biopic, was a strong No. 1 at North American movie theaters, taking in about $27.3 million over the weekend....
352 2013-04-14 Adam Scott of Australia won his first green jacket on the second playoff hole at the Masters. Scott and Angel Cabrera each birdied on the 18th hole of the final round to compete in a sudden-death playoff....
353 2013-04-14 Girardi was set up for the goal by a pretty backhand pass from center Derick Brassard. Girardi broke in and sent his wrist shot perfectly into the top corner on the long side, past Islanders goalie Evgeni Nabokov.

Girardi was mobbed behind the Islanders’ net by his jubilant teammates, including goalie Henrik Lundqvist, who skated the length of the ice to join the pileup after recording his first shutout of the season. The Rangers’ fans roared in delight; the Islanders’ fans roared forlornly to try to drown them out.

“It was a pretty good moment,” Girardi said. “Did it feel like a playoff game? It was for us. There’s no room to lose.”

Of the pass to Girardi, Brassard said: “I saw he had the edge on their defenseman, and I tried to put it on his tape. He scored a real goal-scorer’s goal.”

Brassard smiled, slightly embarrassed. The goal was Girardi’s second of the season.

The Islanders filed off the ice quickly. They had come into the game with 3 straight wins and 8 victories in their previous 10 games. They are seeking their first playoff spot since 2007.

“It’s tough to swallow that pill, to play the way we played and lose in overtime,” said Nabokov, who finished with 19 saves. “But there’s a lot of positive. We played well, both teams were battling, and I think both teams deserve a point, that’s for sure.”

With one minute left in regulation, the Rangers were awarded a power play when Kyle Okposo was sent off for slashing Girardi’s stick. But they were unable to convert, either when skating five on four in the first half of the power play or when skating four on three in the second part, during overtime.

Halfway through the third period it looked as if the Islanders’ captain and top scorer, John Tavares, would break the deadlock. He beat the Rangers’ top scorer, Rick Nash, to a loose puck in the neutral zone and dashed in on goal, but he was robbed when Lundqvist made a flashing glove save.

Lundqvist finished with 29 saves. His save percentage, .928, is the fourth best in the N.H.L., but he did not get a shutout until Saturday night.

“This afternoon I kept saying, ‘Think about shutout, think about shutout,’ ” Lundqvist said. “Sometimes when you talk about it, it happens.”

Both goalies were good, but both were also lucky.

Defenseman Andrew MacDonald bailed out Nabokov, who was stuck behind his own net, by blocking Ryan Callahan’s shot from 40 feet. MacDonald leads the league with 112 blocked shots.

Three minutes later, Derek Stepan redirected a Callahan pass through Nabokov’s pads. But the puck thudded against the goal post and stayed out of the net.

It was Lundqvist’s turn with less than five minutes left in the second period, when the Islanders’ Casey Cizikas hit the left goal post behind him. Two minutes later Terry Carkner hit the right post. And less than two minutes into the third period, Colin McDonald hit the crossbar.

“I had some puck luck,” Lundqvist said.

The atmosphere at the Coliseum was boisterous and exhilarating, recalling the peak years of the Islanders-Rangers rivalry in the 1970s and ’80s. A constant din filled the building, the chants from the fans at times melding into an indistinguishable roar.

“I’ve been here three years, and that’s the loudest crowd I’ve heard — you could really feel the energy,” Islanders defenseman Travis Hamonic said. “It’s unfortunate because it would’ve been real nice to score a goal and hear the crowd erupt.”
354 2013-04-14 The Nepalese government has also refused to allow 5,000 refugees to leave for the United States, even though the American government has said it would grant the refugees asylum.

“Nepal used to be quite easy for Tibetans, to get jobs here and integrate into the community,” Tashi Ganden, a former monk and prominent political prisoner in China, said as he sat on a cafe rooftop in the bustling Tibetan Boudhanath neighborhood of Katmandu. “That was before the Chinese influence.”

Nepal is one of the world’s most impoverished countries, made poorer by a decade-long civil war between Maoist guerrillas and the military that ended in 2006, and by the continuing instability of the government. The nation is bordered by India and China, and Nepalese leaders have sought to use China as a counterbalance to long-running Indian influence.

The courtship between Nepal and China has gained momentum in recent years, as China has poured in aid money, infrastructure expertise and, in Lumbini, believed to be the birthplace of Buddha, investment in Buddhist sites. Meanwhile, it has been assigning ambassadors to Nepal who have backgrounds in security work.

Former President Jimmy Carter told reporters in Katmandu on April 1 that Chinese pressure was making the journey of Tibetans to Nepal more difficult. “My hope is that the Nepali government will not accede,” he said, according to Reuters.

Shankar Prasad Koirala, the joint secretary of the Ministry of Home Affairs, said in a telephone interview that Nepal had not turned its back on the refugees. “The government of Nepal is assisting them and treating them on humanitarian grounds,” he said.

Other Nepalese officials have explained that Nepal abides by a “one-China policy” and does not tolerate anti-China separatist activities on its soil.

China’s campaign to block Tibetans from entering Nepal increased in 2008 after a widespread Tibetan uprising. Since then, at least 110 self-immolations by Tibetans living under Chinese rule have further prompted Chinese officials to tighten security in Tibetan towns and along the border with Nepal.

The practice of protest by self-immolation has reached Katmandu, making Nepalese officials even more anxious about the Tibetan issue. In February, a Tibetan monk, Drupchen Tsering, 25, died after setting fire to himself near a revered Buddhist stupa, or dome-shaped shrine, in Boudhanath.

Tibetans in the area asked for the monk’s body, but local officials had it cremated in the middle of the night late last month, saying no family members had claimed it, and later posted notices warning against public ceremonies, according to the International Campaign for Tibet, an advocacy group based in Washington.

There has been a clampdown on open religious celebrations in recent years, with some Tibetans detained for days. Those celebrations include festivities around the birthday of the Dalai Lama, who lives in exile in India and had a representative in Katmandu until the office was shut down by the government in 2005.

One young man, Tsering, said he went to a monastery in Katmandu in April 2012 for a birthday ceremony, only to find the Nepalese police blocking the area. The gathering was moved to an assembly hall. “We can’t even celebrate the Dalai Lama’s birthday,” he said. “Things have changed a lot.”

Mr. Tashi, the former monk, said dozens of Tibetans were pre-emptively detained in January 2012 when Wen Jiabao, the Chinese prime minister at the time, made an unannounced four-hour visit to Katmandu. Mr. Wen had scheduled a visit for the previous month, but it was canceled because of concerns over protests by Tibetans, local residents said. During his visit, Mr. Wen agreed that China would give Nepal $1.18 billion in aid over three years, among other support.

The earliest Tibetan refugees arrived in Nepal in 1959, when the Dalai Lama fled Tibet, and they settled in refugee camps, of which there are still 13. A Tibetan enclave sprang up around Boudhanath. Some Tibetans became rich by making carpets and handicrafts, and prominent Tibetan monasteries amassed wealth and purchased prime real estate in the Katmandu Valley.

The population was bolstered by more recent political refugees, like Mr. Tashi. The Tibetans used to be given refugee cards that guaranteed them some rights, but Nepal ended that practice in 1998.

These days, refugees pay about $5,000 to smugglers to get them to Nepal. They generally stay six to eight weeks at a transit center in the Katmandu Valley run by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, then board a bus for India. There, the Tibetans hope to get an audience with the Dalai Lama.

Some are pilgrims who eventually try to make their way back to Nepal and then Tibet. There is suspicion among longtime refugees that some of the refugees are spies for China.

Before the Tibetan uprising five years ago, 2,000 to 4,000 refugees reached the transit center each year. That dropped to 500 to 600 in 2008, as Chinese security forces locked down Tibetan towns, and crept back up to 850 the next year. It has remained low ever since.

For decades, there had been an understanding that Nepalese border guards would allow refugees they encountered to continue on to sanctuary. But now Tibetans suspect that the low numbers of refugees reaching Katmandu could be in part a result of guards sending back Tibetans they catch, especially since China is now involved in border security training programs.

There is no independent monitoring of the Nepalese security forces on the border. Last year, CNN broadcast video of unknown Chinese men in plain clothes harassing a CNN cameraman on the Nepalese side of the border while a guard stood by.

“We don’t really know what happens in border areas now,” said Kate Saunders, a researcher for the International Campaign for Tibet.

For China, the Mustang region is one of the most delicate border areas, given the history of the Khampa guerrilla resistance there and the flight through the kingdom in 1999 of the Karmapa Lama, who was secretly escaping to India from Tibet. The border only opens now on rare occasions for a market between Tibetans and local residents.

People of Mustang could once cross into Tibet with a letter from the king to make a pilgrimage to Mount Kailas, the holiest mountain in Tibetan Buddhist cosmology. But the Chinese cut that off a dozen years ago.

“We’ve asked our government to try to reopen it,” said Jigme Singi Palbar Bista, the prince of Mustang. “Our people have always looked to the spiritual light of Tibet.”
355 2013-04-14 “With this club, we do five things right, and one thing puts us right back,” said Danny Shittu, the Millwall captain. “Even now, when you tell people you play for Millwall, they say, ‘Oh,’ and there’s a look.”

Referring to the fans who were fighting, he added: “Nobody at any club should be doing that. It’s not a positive and it’s not something I condone.“

Millwall’s chief executive, Andy Ambler, said in a statement on the club’s Web site: “Our position is clear. Anyone associated with our club found guilty of violent behavior will be banned indefinitely from Millwall matches in addition to any punishment they receive from the authorities.”

He added: “Having worked so hard to show the positive side of our club both on and off the field, we cannot allow the actions of a mindless minority to undermine that. At this stage we are still in the process of establishing the full details of what happened in a section of the ground during the second half. When we have those facts at our disposal and the police have completed their investigations, we may be in a position to comment further.”

Millwall’s manager, Kenny Jackett, said he was so focused on the action on the field that he did not see the incidents in the stands — the fighting took place in the second half behind Wigan’s goal — but lamented the reality that they would almost surely take the focus off the game.

“We’ve worked very hard to do everything we possibly can to try to be trouble-free,” he said. “If crowd trouble is going to be continuously brought up with Millwall, that will hold us back.”

Roberto Martínez, the Wigan manager, was ecstatic about his Premier League club’s performance — goals from Shaun Maloney and Callum McManaman put Wigan through to the club’s first F.A. Cup final, in which it will play either Chelsea or Manchester City — but was similarly disappointed when faced with questions about the atmosphere.

Martinez said the fighting “leaves a bad taste for the huge majority they had here — with their impeccable behavior.”

Shittu agreed, saying, “There’s a minority that tries to put the club in a bad light.”

Wigan’s chairman, Dave Whelan, said he was concerned about the larger image of English soccer.

“I can’t understand why the Millwall fans would fight each other,” he said. “I understand if they want to fall out with the visiting team, but why would they fall out amongst themselves? It just gives football a very, very poor reputation.”

The Football Association, or F.A., which is soccer’s governing body in England, released a statement after the match condemning what it described as “sporadic violence and disorder.”

“We will look to ensure those involved are identified and we would call for criminal charges and a football banning order to be brought against them,” Alex Horne, general secretary of the F.A., said in the statement. “The F.A. deplore the scenes which have taken place, which are unacceptable. Everything will be done to take action against those involved.”
356 2013-04-14 “People would be looking to punish them,” said Robert Borosage, a co-founder of the Campaign for America’s Future, another liberal group, “and they would be looking for primary challengers.”

Even if Democratic incumbents do not draw a primary challenger, liberal activists say, they might face a shortage of volunteers motivated enough to do the hard work of campaigning — just as Democrats did in the 2010 midterms, which resulted in big Republican gains.

Looking further ahead, to 2016, some on the left have already begun talking about encouraging a liberal Democrat — the freshman Senator of is the name most bandied — to take up the “don’t touch Social Security or Medicare” banner as part of a liberal bid for the party’s nomination to succeed Mr. Obama, even against or Vice President

Such talk was stoked when Ms. Warren, within hours of the release of the president’s budget on Wednesday, sent supporters an e-mail sounding an alarm: “Our Social Security system is critical to protecting middle-class families, and we cannot allow it to be dismantled inch by inch.”

She was not available for an interview, aides said on Friday.

“If the major candidates running for the Democratic nomination hedge on important issues like Social Security, they will leave open a tremendous amount of space for an insurgent,” said , a co-founder of the Change Campaign Committee, a group often critical of Mr. Obama.

But, Mr. Green acknowledged, “I wouldn’t say anybody’s laying the groundwork yet.”

At a minimum, Mr. Borosage said, all Democratic candidates in 2014 or 2016 “will be forced to take a stand.”

That prospect could complicate the campaign strategies of establishment favorites. Mr. Biden is inevitably tied to Mr. Obama’s policies. And Mrs. Clinton, as a senator, was a fiscal moderate who extolled her husband’s budget-balancing record of compromise. President negotiated Medicare savings with Congressional Republicans, and their 1997 deal nearly included the same proposal trimming Social Security cost-of-living increases that Mr. Obama has put in his budget to entice Republicans to compromise in turn.

Ideological litmus tests have lately been more divisive for Republicans than for Democrats, over and social issues like , and . But the on the left to defend Social Security and Medicare, the two programs that Democrats consider perhaps their party’s greatest legacy, did not begin last week with Mr. Obama’s new budget.

It had been building since mid-2011, when the president, in private negotiations with Speaker , tentatively agreed to the new formula for calculating cost-of-living adjustments in Social Security; economists recommend the formula as more accurate, but it would mean smaller increases for Social Security beneficiaries. Even so, Democrats in Congress and the White House agree that the party would have supported Mr. Obama back then if a compromise deal had come to a vote.

But the 2011 talks, just like a second round of negotiations in December, collapsed after Mr. Boehner declined to agree to Mr. Obama’s counterdemands: new taxes on the wealthy and on some corporations, and job-creating investments in infrastructure projects, research and education.

As his second term began, Mr. Obama used his annual budget proposal to make his most public overture toward compromise yet. The budget, incorporating the final December offer to Mr. Boehner, also proposed other cuts in spending for domestic programs and the military and $400 billion in savings over 10 years from Medicare. Those savings would come mostly from reducing payments to hospitals and pharmaceutical manufacturers, but also from trimming benefits and raising out-of-pocket costs for higher-income beneficiaries.

Liberals found much to praise, like Mr. Obama’s proposed new spending for road construction, nationwide prekindergarten education and advanced manufacturing research; a higher federal minimum wage; and reduced tax breaks for the wealthy. But they were shocked that he proposed the new cost-of-living formula. With that as the kindling, their opposition movement intensified.

More than two years away from Democrats’ presidential-nominating contest, however, it is hard to see who could or would become the left’s standard-bearer. Besides Ms. Warren, other party leaders mentioned include Gov. of New York, Gov. of , Senator of New York and Senator of .

Certainly an unexpected candidate could emerge, as Mr. Obama did in the 2008 race. Three years ahead of that year’s nominating convention, few Democrats saw him as a likely candidate, much less one who could vanquish Mrs. Clinton.

Now Mrs. Clinton is again seen as the nearly invincible front-runner, should she choose to run. Many potential aspirants, including Ms. Warren, are widely considered unlikely to challenge her as Mr. Obama did in 2008.

Back then, the issue that he seized was opposition to the war. In 2004, Democrats’ disgust with that war had powered ’s liberal challenge to Senator , who ultimately defeated Mr. Dean for the nomination.

Geoff Garin, a Democratic pollster, said that while the issue of protecting Social Security and Medicare could be potent in coming Congressional and presidential campaigns, it “will not be galvanizing in 2016 quite the way that voting for the Iraq war was.”

“Certainly today, and presumably still at the time of the next election, President Obama has enormous credibility with Democratic voters, particularly liberal Democrats,” Mr. Garin said. That credibility extends, he added, to the president’s case for making changes that bolster the finances of the social- programs for future generations.

“While I have no doubt that there would be some Democratic voters who rally around a candidate who runs on a ‘don’t touch Social Security or Medicare’ platform,” Mr. Garin added, “there would not be enough to sustain a candidacy unless that candidate has a lot of other things going for him or her.”
357 2013-04-14 General Dempsey said that regularly scheduled professional reviews would be transformed from top-down assessments to the kind of “360-degree performance evaluation” often seen in corporate settings. He acknowledged that the change had already drawn concern from some in the military’s senior ranks, who warned that it risked damaging a hierarchical command system based on discipline and adherence to orders from above.

General Dempsey described the results of his review of officers’ “professional character” during an interview in which he  repeatedly stated his deep pride in the conduct of the vast majority of senior officers.

He said he had found that the number of senior officers investigated by the Defense Department inspector general was not at an unusually high level. But the central role in national life played by the military since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001 — a time in which some general officers attained the stature, and entourages, of rock stars — put them in the spotlight.

“We’ve been living with unconstrained resources for 10 years and, frankly, we’ve developed some bad habits,” General Dempsey said, vowing to combat complacency. “It’s those bad habits we are seeking to overcome.”

Richard H. Kohn, a professor emeritus at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, who specializes in military culture, said he thought the 360-degree evaluation would have a positive effect on the leadership styles of many officers. “It will reduce what the military calls ‘toxic leadership,’ elevating those who are highly competent but also fair and less brusque and peremptory,” Dr. Kohn said.

As for the new training programs, Dr. Kohn said that while it may be impossible to prevent willful infractions, “most officers need to be reminded of the rules and regulations on a routine basis.”

General Dempsey said the demands of combat deployments in the past decade had prevented officers from attending the academic programs that historically had been integrated into an officer’s career every few years, and he pledged to rebalance that.

It is likely that the review will lead to a reduction in the overall number of generals and admirals, and the size of personal staffs, communications teams and security details. The review also looked at whether administrative staff members assigned to commanders had been used to run personal errands for officers and their spouses.

Among the serious cases of misconduct in recent months, the four-star general who previously served as the top officer in Africa, William Ward, was demoted to three-star general after an investigation into misuse of government funds, including lavish travel with his wife. A one-star officer, Jeffrey A. Sinclair, is facing a court-martial on sexual misconduct charges involving a subordinate.

David H. Petraeus resigned from the C.I.A. over an affair after he had retired as a four-star general. The scandal shined an unflattering light on the high-society life at the military’s Central Command when Gen. John R. Allen was investigated, and cleared of, wrongdoing over e-mails to a Tampa socialite who also was a friend of Mr. Petraeus.

General Dempsey said that “the perception in a profession is just as important as the performance.”

The challenge, he said, will be to trim the size of staffs assigned to senior leaders to fit new budget constraints without diminishing the ability of those officers to perform their national security duties.

Under General Dempsey’s plan, teams of inspectors will observe and review the procedures of commanders and their staffs. The inspections will not be punitive, but will provide a “periodic opportunity for general officers and flag officers to understand whether, from an institutional perspective, we think they are inside or outside the white lines,” he said. In addition, new programs will be instituted to ensure that a commander’s staff, and a spouse, are fully aware of military regulations.

General Dempsey said he would be putting the new assessment procedures in effect for all generals and admirals serving on the Pentagon’s Joint Staff and in other military headquarters around the world in command of combat operations; the other chiefs will do so within their individual armed services.

The list of subordinates asked to assess a senior leader would be drawn from those who had direct interaction with the commander.

General Dempsey said that both President Obama and Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel had approved the measures and given him free rein to carry them out as he saw fit.

He said the issue of understanding the military as a profession, and not just an occupation, had fascinated him since his days as a junior officer; he would be subject to the same rules, regulations and assessments he now is championing.

“In my 39 years in the military, I have learned that you are not a profession just because you say you are,” he said. “You have to earn it and re-earn it and re-evaluate it from time to time.”
358 2013-04-14 Simplifying pricing, it turns out, is not that simple.

For sellers, setting and holding one price makes plain, economic sense. “You’re always going in and changing prices and that takes manual labor,” said Ronald Friedman, retail practice leader at the accounting firm Marcum. “Also, if you have one price, you have a better feel for expected margins and gross profits, you can manage to your budgets a lot better, and it’s more efficient.”

It also leads to more stable inventories. “It makes the operations side of things much easier to predict,” said John T. Gourville, a marketing professor at Harvard Business School. “You don’t have these whiplash effects of selling, say, a ton of Diet Coke one week and virtually none the next week.”

Mr. Johnson explained a similar logic when he moved the chain toward simplified pricing. In January 2012, while introducing his new plan to investors, the press and vendors, Mr. Johnson said that in the previous year, the company held 590 sales events; almost three-quarters of the stuff it sold was marked down 50 percent or more.

But here’s the thing: customers weren’t actually paying less. The chain just kept raising the prices that customers saw on the racks, and then discounted those prices during promotions. Why keep playing a game that is expensive and troublesome for the seller and a mirage for the consumer?

J. C. Penney was not the first retailer to be astonished by the brilliance of this realization. In 2006, Macy’s had a similar idea after acquiring the coupon-happy May department stores. It decided to “retrain” those customers, as its chief financial officer put it at the time, by drastically cutting coupons. By 2007, it had abandoned that strategy. Its chief executive acknowledged that pulling back on coupons was Macy’s biggest mistake in its acquisition.

Even Walmart, which actually does pull off the trick of “everyday low prices” in its domestic stores, is finding it hard to convert consumers to a single-price model in countries like Brazil and China, where retailers give deep discounts on a few main products, then mark up the rest, said Mark Wiltamuth, an analyst at Morgan Stanley.

The problem, economists and marketing experts say, is that consumers are conditioned to wait for deals and sales, partly because they do not have a good sense of how much an item should be worth to them and need cues to figure that out.

Just having a generically fair or low price, as Penney did, said Alexander Chernev, a marketing professor at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University, assumes that consumers have some context for how much items should cost. But they don’t.

“J. C. Penney might say it’s a fair price, but why should consumers trust J. C. Penney?” he asked. “At the end of the day, people don’t want a fair price. They want a great deal.”

Consumers infer that they get a great deal based on the reference point provided by the higher, presale price. Social scientists refer to this idea as anchoring, and it applies to all sorts of consumer behavior and expectations. Without that anchor, consumers have trouble determining whether the store is actually giving them a good price.

Even the words a retailer uses in its marketing can affect how a customer judges a deal — “sale” or “special” leads people to think the item has a high value, but a straight markdown leads them to think it’s a cheaper item, according to a study in the Journal of Retailing.

Consumer demand is naturally lumpy and seasonal, and stores have to fight for a share of those spikes in demand. There’s a reason, after all, that the year’s most hyped doorbusters are always offered on the same day, Black Friday. Limited-time sales can also lure consumers into a store, which is particularly important if retailers don’t have a differentiated, high-value product (as Mr. Johnson’s previous employer, Apple, does). And despite the bargain-basement feel of coupons, they are a tool to draw in a broader consumer base — one shopper to buy at a high price, and a more price-sensitive shopper to buy the same item at a lower one.

Simple low pricing can work if retailers take narrow profit margins, analysts say. Costco, for instance, almost never runs sales and doesn’t adjust prices much, but it depends on annual membership fees for profit. Walmart, which also offers low prices, makes up for thin margins with a high volume of customers who visit often.

“Instead of having a lot of variable pricing on individual items, across all items they can guarantee you’ll get the lowest price for your basket,” said Pradeep K. Chintagunta, a marketing professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business.

PENNEY did not offer anything so clear. The chain told customers to expect low prices — but not the lowest prices. “Walmart is able to tell customers exactly how much they’re saving compared to a local supermarket,” Professor Chintagunta said. “But what am I gaining now by shopping at Penney’s, 20 percent on average? Ten percent? Penney’s couldn’t communicate that, and consumers couldn’t make an assessment about whether it was worthwhile to go there.”

Penney had pulled up the anchor, only to see many of its most avid customers sail away.
359 2013-04-14 Mr. Youssef said that the list published by the hackers was not “an accurate reflection of the official court records,” but he gave no further details.

What has unfolded is an opaque story full of twists that is now under investigation by the tribunal, the attorney general of Lebanon and the police in the Netherlands, where the tribunal is based.

It began Tuesday morning when the newspaper Al Mustaqbal discovered that the front page of its Web site had been taken over by the purported secret witness list, causing much consternation in a small country where many people know one another.

The newspaper was owned by Mr. Hariri and still belongs largely to his family.

The hackers also directed visitors to a Web site called “Journalists for the Truth,” lawyers said.

“We are a group of journalists seeking to unveil corruption in the Special Tribunal for Lebanon,” the Web site said, adding that it aimed to prove “bribery” and “prejudice and non-professionalism” of court officials. It also said its mission was to provide legal support to the witnesses “who face daily temptation or pressure” from tribunal staff.

In what seemed a surreal spin on a Web site that was itself simultaneously publishing the so-called witness list, the site blamed court officials for leaking the confidential information and said that this was an act that “posed a threat to the lives of many witnesses.”

The Journalists for the Truth site revealed no names or news media affiliation, only an e-mail address. The Dutch police said they had traced the Web site to a registry in the Netherlands, but they said its owners were still unknown.

A Lebanese lawyer familiar with the case who spoke on the condition of anonymity said he believed the hackers were supporters of the militant movement Hezbollah, which has long campaigned against the court.

The Hezbollah leadership has consistently denied any connection with the Hariri killing and has said it would not cooperate with the tribunal. The tribunal has charged four Hezbollah members in connection with the bombing of Mr. Hariri’s car as it drove down a seaside boulevard in Beirut in 2005. The location of the four is unknown, and they would be tried in absentia.

Hezbollah officials could not be reached for comment, but the group has previously denied any involvement in the bombing and denounced the tribunal as a tool of the United States and Israel.

In Paris last week, Saad Hariri, the dead prime minister’s son, who has also served as prime minister, called the hacking and the publication of the possible witnesses in his father’s case “a criminal act.” He insisted that the tribunal would continue its work and reveal who killed his father and a number of his supporters.

For the tribunal, which faces opposition in Lebanon from Hezbollah and its supporters, the listing of names and photographs is a second major setback this year.

In January, the newspaper Al Akhbar, which is close to Hezbollah, published similar “confidential” lists, revealing pictures and personal details of 32 people it said were witnesses in the case. But the newspaper stopped after it received a warning from Lebanon’s attorney general that it was violating judges’ orders of confidentiality.

Mr. Youssef, the tribunal spokesman, said the prosecution had prepared a still undisclosed list of 500 potential witnesses. But he declined to say whether the published names were among them. “As a court, we are obviously concerned about the safety of legitimate witnesses,” he said, “they are among the most important component of the trial.”

Mr. Youssef added that the anonymous “journalists’ group” was not credible. “Let them reveal their identity, and we will engage with any critics,” he said.

A lawyer in The Hague, familiar with the tribunal’s work, called the listing of names an astonishing maneuver. “Without firing a shot or beating up anyone,” he said, “they’ll manage to scare away all the witnesses.”
360 2013-04-14 Home prices look remarkably stable when corrected for inflation. Over the 100 years ending in 1990 — before the recent housing boom — real home prices rose only 0.2 percent a year, on average. The smallness of that increase seems best explained by rising productivity in construction, which offset increasing costs of land and labor.

Of course, home prices are likely to be much higher in 2023 when measured in nominal dollars — those that aren’t inflation-adjusted. Inflation is the deliberate policy of the Federal Reserve, with a target rate now of 2 percent a year as measured by the personal consumption expenditure deflator, or about 2.4 percent on the Consumer Price Index. At those rates, nominal prices will be roughly 25 percent higher, over all, in a decade.

All else equal, the current Fed policy would have this effect: a home selling for $200,000 today will sell for around $250,000 in 2023, though the real price — corrected for inflation — would be unchanged. But because people often forget to correct for inflation, they may have the illusion that the market is improving.

In an ideal world, steady and uniform inflation would have no effect on rational decision-making because it affects incomes as well as prices. But in the real world, inflation does affect our psychology. People feel more optimistic when their nominal pay rises or when a neighbor’s house sold for more than they paid for theirs. But in thinking about investments for the long term, we should focus on fundamentals — on real, inflation-corrected values and on the economics behind them.

Here is a harsh truth about homeownership: Over the long haul, it’s hard for homes to compete with the stock market in real appreciation. That’s because companies whose shares are traded on a stock exchange retain a good share of their earnings to plow back into the business. The business should grow and its real stock price should also grow through time — unless the company makes poor decisions, as some certainly do.

By contrast, real home prices should decline with time, except to the extent that households shell out some money and plow back some of their incomes into maintenance and improvements, because homes wear out and go out of style.

Housing is an ambiguous investment to evaluate, because a good part of its real return typically comes in its providing a place to live, not in providing dividends paid in cash. For example, a homeowner may gradually realize that she doesn’t need all of the space in her house, but may not be emotionally prepared to start recapturing some of its economic value. The owner may not want to take in roomers, to use the old phrase, just as a modern renter may not want to live in a room in someone else’s home (though new markets like airbnb.com are aiming to change that mind-set).

Then there is the role of the construction industry, which is very good at building new homes and will crank out many more of them if prices rise relative to construction costs. It’s logical that homes’ ultimate values should be affected by home construction costs.

In a 1956 study of home prices by the National Bureau of Economic Research, Leo Grebler, David M. Blank and Louis Winnick documented a substantial decline in inflation-corrected construction costs per housing unit in the first few decades of the 20th century. They traced this decline to multiple causes, including a decline in the number of rooms per home, the use of gypsum wallboard in place of plaster and of asphalt shingles in place of slate, a shift in construction to lower-cost Southern climates and a relative increase in the number of multifamily housing units and apartment buildings. The authors concluded that the long-run movements in construction costs and home prices are “remarkably similar.”

This was the prevailing theory of home prices at the time: construction costs drove the entire housing market. That view — which implies that increasing productivity has restrained prices and could do so in the future — is very different from the focus on financial pressures and speculative bubbles that drives much of our thinking now.

Steady progress in developing new construction equipment, materials and techniques can be seen in something as simple as the history of power drills. A big step forward came in 1889, with the invention of the electric drill. Then came a series of other inventions: the portable electric drill in 1895, the pistol-grip-and-trigger-switch portable electric drill in 1917 (by S. Duncan Black and Alonzo G. Decker), the Phillips head screw in 1935 (by Henry F. Phillips), the first cordless electric drill in 1961 and the first lithium ion battery, which improved cordless drills, in the 1970s. Each set in motion a string of other improvements that, over decades, penetrated the construction industry and vastly improved its productivity. We can expect more such inventions in the future.

It is hard to imagine the next advances in home construction technology, but there are some clues. For example, Behrokh Khoshnevis of the University of Southern California is developing “contour crafting” robotics that he says will be able to accept computer instructions and, like gigantic 3-D printers, build houses. We cannot tell how well this will work, but computer technology has produced some amazing results. Why is it that we worry about the effect of information technology on our jobs but usually don’t link such uncertainty to the outlook for home prices?

Technical advances affect other industries, too, of course, and the performance of housing as an investment relative to others depends ultimately on the comparative rates of progress.

THESE variables alone suggest how tricky it is to forecast your home’s value when the time comes to sell. Prices can go down as well as up. That is also true for investments in general, of course, and is why generations of portfolio analysts have advocated assessment of risks, and not just extrapolation of recent trends, as the key to intelligent investing.
361 2013-04-14 His plans, according to academics like Brent D. Ryan, author of “Design After Decline: How America Rebuilds Shrinking Cities,” amount to one of the most ambitious privately financed urban reclamation projects in American history.

Opportunity Detroit, as Mr. Gilbert has branded it, is both a rescue mission and a business venture that, if successful, will yield him a fortune. When he started buying in 2011, the city was having what he has described as a “skyscraper sale.” Among the bargains was the Dime Building, a 23-story neo-Classical gem of glazed brick and terra cotta trim, designed by Daniel Burnham — of Flatiron Building fame — and completed in 1912. In August 2011, Bedrock bought all 330,000 square feet of it, reportedly for $15 million. There are high-end apartments in Manhattan that cost more.

If this area turns around, no one will profit quite like Mr. Gilbert, but the risk looks as great as the potential reward. Even with its auto industry in relatively robust, post-bailout health, Detroit has been on a long, distressing slide. A quarter of its population left in the last decade, and it has $14 billion in long-term debt. The financial situation is so dire that Michigan’s governor recently appointed an emergency manager. Detroit remains a national symbol of municipal decline, a victim of macroeconomic trends, poor planning and political corruption.

Mr. Gilbert is undaunted. Part-owner of a handful of casinos, he is familiar with big bets and steep odds, and, as they say in poker, he is all in. In 2010, he started moving his employees from a nearby suburb, and 7,600 people on his payroll now work downtown.

“Not a single one of them has told me, ‘I don’t want to be here,’ ” he said in a recent interview in his office next to downtown’s Campus Martius Park, formerly among the city’s busiest gathering points and a focus of his campaign. “Kids coming out of college want that urban core excitement, more and more.”

DRESSED in a red-checked button-down shirt and a blue blazer, Mr. Gilbert is 5 feet 5 inches of restless energy. He has slicked-back dark hair, a Hollywood smile and dolorous eyes that give him the look of a man in need of sleep. Growing up in Southfield, a nearby suburb, he spent little time in the city. One of his earliest memories is of his father, who owned a nightclub-restaurant in the city, explaining the Detroit riots as the violence unfolded over five days in 1967, leaving more than 40 people dead and 2,500 stores burned or looted.

It was a searing moment in the city’s history, one that highlighted racial disparities that still haunt Detroit.

“People my age, we would hear from our parents and grandparents who were raised in Detroit about how great this city was, from 1900 to the 60s,” Mr. Gilbert said. “But none of us had any memory of that. And it wasn’t until my late 20s and early 30s, when I started traveling for business, to places like New York City and Los Angeles, that I realized how much we were missing. As I started visiting these great American cities, it hit me — man, how did we blow this so badly?”

He seems to consider it his duty to rebuild what a previous generation allowed to fall apart. He aims to turn downtown into a high-tech hub, where young entrepreneurs both live and work. (He and a handful of companies are offering rent and mortgage subsidies to people willing to live downtown.) These pioneers will have easy access to high culture: the city’s leading museum, the Detroit Institute of Arts and the Detroit Opera House are nearby, as are stadiums for the city’s professional baseball and football teams.

About 80 small companies have already settled into buildings owned by Bedrock, many of them start-ups funded by Detroit Venture Partners, a venture capital firm co-owned by Mr. Gilbert. A Twitter office is here, too, as is a branch of Uber, the online taxi-calling service. National brands, like Nike, are being courted.

A master salesman, Mr. Gilbert describes a reinvigorated downtown as though it is inevitable, but there are more than a few skeptics. They include Mr. Ryan, who teaches in the department of urban studies and planning at M.I.T.

“Urban renewal always happens as a symphony of events, and part of the symphony is innovative, optimistic developers with the ability and willingness to transform historic properties,” he said in a recent interview. “But another part is a strong regional economy. You can’t fight the fact that Detroit is a de-industrializing market and it isn’t facing dramatic, positive transformation.”

Mr. Gilbert, though, is not just any innovative, optimistic developer. This is a guy who at age 12 organized a pizza delivery service, with children on bikes rushing store-bought pies to neighbors. (Local restaurants eventually shut down the operation with a complaint to the health department.)

He remains just as driven, but now his self-made fortune stands at $3.5 billion, according to Forbes. He has learned from mistakes of previous efforts to reimagine downtown, and he and his staff will apparently have a largely free hand. Government officials have promised to expedite permits for renovations, signs and so on.

“My job,” said Dave Bing, the Detroit mayor and former National Basketball Association star, “is to knock down as many barriers as possible and get out of the way.”

THE week I went to Detroit to interview Mr. Gilbert, in mid-March, the city was undergoing its latest in a long series of this-must-be-rock-bottom moments. It started on Monday, March 11, when a former mayor, Kwame Kilpatrick, was found guilty of racketeering, extortion and other crimes. Three days later, Gov. Rick Snyder of Michigan introduced Kevyn Orr, a Washington bankruptcy lawyer, as Detroit’s emergency manager.

The appointment was greeted with some vocal resistance, like that of a few dozen protesters who poured into the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center on March 28 for 90 minutes of chants and protest songs. A federal lawsuit contending that the appointment is unconstitutional was filed by a number of unions, local activists, clergy members and others.

But many locals seemed to decide that usurping local politicians’ power was a fine idea. Even Mayor Bing immediately pledged support. He and others — Mr. Gilbert included — seem to regard the city as an addict and Mr. Orr as a hard-nosed counselor leading an intervention.

The day before Mr. Orr’s appointment was announced, Mr. Gilbert met in a conference room for his twice-a-month Detroit real estate meeting, with about a dozen people who work for him, plus a lawyer and leasing agent. If Detroit 2.0, as this group often calls the effort, has a planning committee, this is it. The conversation started with a long discussion about the terms of a lease with a specialty grocer, then segued into a look at a handful of buildings, some for sale, others already under contract.

“There was a massage parlor in that one,” said Matt Cullen, president of Rock Ventures, one of Mr. Gilbert’s companies, as the group looked at a photograph of one less-than-spiffy building.

“How would you know that?” Mr. Gilbert needled.

Mr. Gilbert speaks with an accent that is Bill Murray-esque, and his default expression is, too: deadpan, which somehow makes him look perpetually on the verge of saying something wry. An inveterate prankster, he recently had a few dozen farm animals, including goats, chicken and geese, hauled into the office of a neat-freak colleague who was turning 50.

“You could smell that they were in the building,” says Bill Emerson, the C.E.O. of Quicken Loans, who was not the target of the prank. “Some days, I think Dan is just a big kid at heart.”

If so, he is a big kid who really likes to win. Mr. Gilbert is majority owner of the Cleveland Cavaliers of the N.B.A., and gained brief national fame when the team’s star, LeBron James, announced in 2010 that he was decamping for the Miami Heat. Mr. Gilbert issued a statement to fans personally guaranteeing that the Cavs would win an N.B.A. championship “before the self-titled former ‘king’ wins one.” He added: “You can take it to the bank.”

Fortunately for Mr. Gilbert, there is no bank for errant predictions. The Heat won the N.B.A. championship last year.

Thirty minutes into the Detroit real estate meeting, talk turned to Moosejaw, a Michigan seller of outdoor apparel that is the first large retailer to open in downtown in the Gilbert Age. A representative of the chain had been quoted a few weeks earlier in a local newspaper, talking in upbeat but not quite superlative terms about the site, in a building on Woodward Avenue, one of the city’s grandest streets and a primary focus of Detroit 2.0.

The comments weren’t rosy enough for Mr. Gilbert. He turned to a woman newly hired as a liaison with retailers and urged her to reach out to Moosejaw’s management. “Tell them we’ll do promotions, we’ll do whatever they want,” he said. “If the one store that moved in were to move out? Forget about it. We’re dead.”

In late March, Mr. Gilbert would announce that Moosejaw had signed a long-term lease. But the chicken-and-egg problem of his vision is that retailers won’t come unless there are people on the streets, and people won’t walk the streets unless they are lined with retailers. (There is pre-Gilbert retail on ground floors, including a CVS store, but lots of empty spaces, too.)

The solution is what Mr. Gilbert calls the big bang: bring in as many stores and people, at the same time, as quickly as possible.

Of course, both retailers and people need to feel secure, and Detroit’s dicey reputation is no secret; its murder rate was among the highest in the country last year, and among the city’s highest in nearly two decades. So there’s a command center in Chase Tower, a Bedrock-owned building where a bank of monitors are watched by security guards, with live feeds from video cameras downtown. It was the one part of Mr. Gilbert’s operations deemed off-limits during my tour.

THESE guards keep an eye on what is actually one of the safest parts of the city. Few people live downtown, which means that the area is largely empty at night, and during the day it is filled with white-collar workers. There are rough patches, and a block-wide hole where the Hudson’s department store once stood. But the place feels more sterile than threatening.

It’s the rest of Detroit that could use 24-hour surveillance. One of the looming and unanswered questions posed by Mr. Gilbert’s campaign is what, if anything, they will mean for the 137 square miles of the city that are not in his blueprints. To get a sense, I sat in the passenger seat of the Prius owned by George Galster, a professor in the department of urban studies and planning at Wayne State University and author of “Driving Detroit.” Professor Galster is steeped in the arcana that shape neighborhoods, like zoning laws and topography, and as he explained early in this three-hour drive, he is the fifth consecutive George Galster to live in Detroit.

“My great-great grandfather came here from Germany in 1851,” he said, easing to the side of Mount Elliott Street, not far from downtown. He put his car in park and pointed to the moribund remains of a large, once-grand building of bricks and wood boards.

“This was the church my great-grandfather built,” he said. “This is the church where my parents met. It’s where I was baptized.”

Today, it is a hovel that looks too dangerous to enter.

“This is what is horrible about Detroit,” he says, putting his car back into drive. “It takes away your memories.”

The surprise about this city is that most of it doesn’t look like a city. It looks like a suburb that has gone bankrupt. It’s filled with single-family homes — some inhabited, many not — that sit on streets where other houses have been razed, excavated and plowed over. Once, two million people lived here. Now, it’s down to about 700,000, spread around an area large enough to accommodate every acre of land in San Francisco, Boston and the Bronx, combined.

There are a handful of strikingly lovely neighborhoods, like Sherwood Forest and Indian Village, which is studded with gorgeous Tudor Revival homes. At the opposite end of the spectrum, there are stops in what has become a perversely popular tour of ruins, like Michigan Central Station, designed by the same architects behind Grand Central Terminal and now so hollowed out that you can actually see through it.

Most of the city, though, is flat and featureless. It lacks what urban planners call “good bones,” large structures in dense neighborhoods. Parts of it appear to be in the midst of an evacuation.

“We’re looking at a lot of torched buildings,” Professor Galster said.

Burned homes are among the 5,000 to 8,000 dwellings that are abandoned in Detroit every year, according to Professor Galster. And this highlights one of the city’s chronic maladies: a continuing exodus of population and tax base.

There are many causes — the decline of the auto industry and white flight among them — but the one that Professor Galster returns to time and again is development in the suburbs.

“The villains are the rules of the game,” he said. “Developers find it far more profitable to build in farmland in the suburbs than in vacant land in the core. It’s easier to acquire big sites without worrying about hidden basements, or gas stations, or a reputation for violence, or corruption or inefficiency or the potential racism of your customers.”

It makes financial sense for developers, but it is disemboweling the city, he said. Which is why he believes that without reform to housing and development laws, neither Mr. Gilbert nor the emergency manager, nor any combination of earthly forces, can salvage Detroit.

What if downtown is resuscitated and no improvements are made to any other part of the city? It’s a possibility that concerns the Rev. Wendell Anthony, president of the local chapter of the N.A.A.C.P.

“What we don’t want to see is two Detroits, one for those who are downtown and one for those in the neighborhoods,” Reverend Anthony said. “I don’t think that is what Mr. Gilbert wants, either. But I know that unless we have viable and strong neighborhoods, downtown will be merely a city near a river. It has to spread, it must spread to the neighborhoods.”

The uncomfortable reality is that Mr. Gilbert is a white guy trying to change the choicest parts of a city that is 83 percent African-American. A white guy who lives in an affluent village about 20 miles from downtown. But as he explains, his project is just a beginning.

“This is not the only solution,” he said. “The education system needs to be addressed. But what we’re doing is a big part of the solution. I can’t think of a great American city that doesn’t have a great downtown.”

WHEN Dan Gilbert was in the fourth grade, he bought candy at wholesale from the father of a friend and sold it at retail prices to classmates. It was the start of a nearly obsessive quest to create enterprises and earn profits. He estimates that he’s either invested in or started 70 companies in his career. One early and ill-fated venture was running a short-lived bookmaking operation with some friends while a freshman at Michigan State University. It ended when he was arrested by an undercover agent. He served probation, the charges were dropped and there was no conviction.

“We were college teenagers,” he said.

Subsequent ventures were more mundane, and far more successful. He later earned a real estate agent’s license and, while at Wayne State University Law School, worked part time at a Century 21 office. At some point, he realized that the serious money was in selling mortgages, not homes. So he and two partners, including his younger brother, Gary, went into the mortgage-origination business together. Mr. Gilbert and his partners took out ads in those once-ubiquitous free magazines that listed houses for sale, something that none of his competitors did.

“From the very beginning we could make the phones ring,” Mr. Gilbert said, “even if we didn’t know what to do once they rang.”

The company, called Rock Financial because it sounded sturdy, would eventually become Internet-based, selling mortgages in all 50 states. It was acquired by Intuit for $532 million in 1999, says Mr. Gilbert, and renamed Quicken Loans. Three years later, after the dot-com bubble burst, the company was sold to a group of investors led by Mr. Gilbert for a sum he put at roughly $55 million.

This year, Quicken Loans will do $100 billion worth of mortgage business, says Mr. Gilbert, making it the third-largest home lender in the country, behind Wells Fargo and JPMorgan Chase, according to Mortgage Daily.

Quicken Loans now employs nearly 2,500 mortgage bankers. One morning last month, 300 of them were working on the third floor of the Chase Tower, and a swing through the office was like a visit to a frat party at a telemarketing firm. There were many men and some women with headsets, talking to customers and staring at computer screens — nothing novel there. But a karaoke machine sat in an aisle. Guys threw footballs to one another; one employee shot at colleagues with a Nerf gun. Basketball pennants were draped from the ceiling, as part of a March Madness theme.

“You should have been here last week,” said one broker, Nerf gun in hand. “The theme was spring break. I was wearing shorts, a hat, sunglasses.”

Mr. Gilbert espouses a philosophy of instilling fun in the workplace, one piece of an elaborate corporate culture that he has fine-tuned over the years, and describes, every few months, in a surprisingly entertaining, seven-hour monologue to new employees. One of more than a dozen core principles described in “Isms in Action,” as the lecture is titled, is summed up as “Obsessed with finding a better way.”

That could work as a pretty good motto for Opportunity Detroit. It is being designed and unveiled with the city’s past missteps in mind. One of the most infamous is the Renaissance Center, a huge, mirrored complex of towers built in 1977 and currently the headquarters of General Motors.

“One critic said it was the pre-eminent example of terrible urban planning,” said Mr. Cullen of Rock Ventures, who formerly worked for G.M. and helped champion the idea of buying the RenCen, as everyone here calls it, and moving the company in. “The building basically sucked the remaining people out of downtown and stuck them in a fortress.”

Mr. Gilbert wants to return the area to the pedestrian haven that it was decades ago. If he succeeds — he expects significant results within four or five years — the place will again resemble the scene captured in a photograph that is plastered on a wall not far from his office. It is a huge, sepia-toned shot of Campus Martius, snapped in 1917. Looking at the picture, you realize that it includes the neighborhood where you are standing, though at a time when it bustled with men and women in hats, strolling amid billboards, retailers and a lineup of trolley cars.

This urban idyll was a few years from extinction by the time Dan Gilbert was born. If his quest to bring it back to life proves anything, it’s that you can feel nostalgia for a place you’ve never actually been.
362 2013-04-14 Ms. McCormick demanded to fight on equal terms with men. She fought large bulls and always on foot, rather than on horseback. Over the years she was gored six times. The worst episode was in September 1954 in Ciudad Acuña, the Mexican sister city of Del Rio, Tex., across the Rio Grande. Newspaper accounts say she turned her back while she was performing a pass and the bull caught her in the thigh.

“The horn went right up my stomach,” she told The Los Angeles Times in 1989. “The bull carried me around the ring for a minute, impaled on his horns.”

“They gave me the last rites there,” she recalled. “The doctor said, ‘Carry her across the border and let her die in her own country.’ ”

As it happened, after living in California for more than 40 years and then moving back to Texas, she did die in Del Rio, in a nursing home, said a cousin, Brent McCormick.

But that was just one circle completed. In her last years, she was saved from pennilessness through a chain of events that could be traced to that day in 1954 when a bull almost killed her.

Patricia Lee McCormick was born in St. Louis on Nov. 18, 1929. She was introduced to bullfighting as a 7-year-old during a family vacation to Mexico City. For months afterward she staged mock bullfights in her yard, using neighborhood children as substitutes for bulls.

When she was 13 her family moved to West Texas, where her father was chief engineer at Cosden Petroleum in Big Spring. After graduating from high school, she attended what was then Texas Western College in El Paso, where she studied art and music.

Once there, she began crossing the border into Juárez, where she rediscovered the bulls. She watched fights at the Plaza de Toros and became a student of the form, reading Spanish bullfighting magazines and practicing technique in her dorm room.

“I had a World War I blanket my dad had given to me to keep warm, and I used that as my cape,” Ms. McCormick said in a 2007 documentary film, “The Texas Torera.”

She quit college for bullfighting, persuading Alejandro del Hierro, a retired matador, to be her mentor, and made her bullfighting debut on Sept. 9, 1951, in Juárez.

The Big Spring Daily Herald reported afterward that a bull trampled her twice and tossed her with its horns before she plunged the estoque between its shoulders. The crowd showered her with roses, and the judges awarded her the bull’s ear, signifying a superior performance.

After killing the animal, Ms. McCormick, streaked in blood, knelt down and stroked its head. “I loved the brave bull,” she later wrote in “Lady Bullfighter,” her memoir.

Over the next year she honed her skills in the Mexican minor leagues, and in 1952 she was the first American woman invited to join Mexico’s matador union.

Ms. McCormick fought her last bull in San Antonio in 1962 and then made her way to California, where she focused on her artwork, mainly line drawings and watercolors. Her favorite subjects were horses and bullfighting scenes. She lived in Pasadena and Pebble Beach and rarely mentioned her past. For a number of years she worked as a secretary at the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena.

Returning to Texas in the early 2000s, she settled in Midland. It was there, according to friends, that she fell into financial trouble and nearly lost her apartment. Then Gary Humphreys, the owner of a Del Rio gun shop, intervened.

Mr. Humphreys, it turned out, had a distant personal connection to Ms. McCormick. His mother’s best friend had been her nurse at the Del Rio hospital where she was taken after the near-fatal goring in 1954. He had been 9 years old at the time and a fan of hers, he said.

Decades later, after seeing an old poster of Ms. McCormick in Ciudad Acuña, Mr. Humphreys spent eight months searching for her. “Here was this legend who’d made such an impression on my childhood,” he said, “and she was about to go live in her car.”

Mr. Humphreys helped her financially and encouraged her to take advantage of her fame. But he also drew her mistrust. Ms. McCormick eventually sued Mr. Humphreys, accusing him of trying to benefit financially from her name. Mr. Humphreys settled out of court for an undisclosed amount.

Besides her cousin, Ms. McCormick leaves no survivors. She never married or had children.

After moving to Del Rio, Ms. McCormick enjoyed a small resurgence of celebrity. In 2006, Ciudad Acuña honored her at its annual Running las Vacas event. In 2007, the Heritage Museum of Big Spring mounted an exhibition on her life and career and invited her to demonstrate her cape work. People waited two hours in line to meet her.
363 2013-04-14 As a result, the overwhelming majority of chemicals in use today have never been independently tested for safety.

In its history, the E.P.A. has mandated safety testing for only a small percentage of the 85,000 industrial chemicals available for use today. And once chemicals are in use, the burden on the E.P.A. is so high that it has succeeded in banning or restricting only five substances, and often only in specific applications: polychlorinated biphenyls, dioxin, hexavalent chromium, asbestos and chlorofluorocarbons.

Part of the growing pressure to update federal rules on chemical safety comes from advances in the science of biomonitoring, which tells us more about the chemicals to which we are exposed daily, like the bisphenol A (BPA) in can linings and hard plastics, the flame retardants in couches, the stain-resistant coatings on textiles and the nonylphenols in detergents, shampoos and paints. Hazardous chemicals have become so ubiquitous that scientists now talk about babies being born pre-polluted, sometimes with hundreds of synthetic chemicals showing up in their blood.

It often takes a crisis to draw attention to how little the government knows about industrial chemicals in circulation. After the BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010, at least two million gallons of chemical dispersants were spread to break up the slick. But federal officials could not say they were safe because minimal testing had been done.

The current presumption that chemicals are “safe until proven dangerous” stands in marked contrast to how pharmaceuticals and pesticide companies are handled. Companies making these products have to generate extensive data demonstrating the safety of pharmaceuticals or pesticides before they are sold.

This was not always the case. Pharmaceutical companies used to be able to sell drugs with minimal prior testing, but that changed after a drug called Thalidomide, given in the 1950s to pregnant women for morning sickness, was found to cause severe birth defects the public outcry helped push the medical field to take a precautionary approach to introducing new drugs.

Federal reform of the toxic substances act may be coming. Last week, Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, Democrat of New Jersey, and Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand, Democrat of New York,  introduced a bill called the Safe Chemicals Act of 2013, which would require the chemical industry to demonstrate that a chemical is safe in order for it to be sold. The bill, which has more than 25 Democratic co-sponsors, would put limits on trade secret practices and requires industry to reduce use of the chemicals designated by the E.P.A. as being of “greatest concern” because they are most toxic.

The bill has strong support from environmentalists but opposition from the chemical industry. It has some similarities to rules that went into effect in the European Union in 2007.

Rather than adding more regulations, Calvin Dooley, president of the American Chemistry Council, said in testimony that the “E.P.A. should take advantage of the massive amounts of data and information that the agency already has access to.” His organization has also argued that the bill risks raising costs, squelching innovation and putting American companies at a competitive disadvantage.

Senator David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, is expected to introduce a competing bill that is likely to win the support of the chemical industry. While details about the bill are sparse, it aims to be less of a burden on industry. It would probably not require prior testing on many chemicals, and it would demand less data of companies than would Mr. Lautenberg’s bill.

The competing bills may end up splitting the Senate down party lines, which could doom reform altogether.

In the absence of federal action, more than 20 states have created their own toxic-substances programs to police chemical safety. Many business owners say this trend is creating a confusing patchwork. Health and environmental advocates counter that, pending effective federal reform, these programs are better than nothing at all.

For now, consumers and companies looking for safer products are largely on their own.
364 2013-04-14 Devastated by the recession, the city of Stockton, Calif., is trying to renegotiate its debts in a bankruptcy case that could set an important precedent on whether courts can forcibly reduce the pensions of government employees.

Like many cities hit hard by the bursting of the housing bubble, Stockton found its finances in a mess. Even after drastic cuts to city services that have sent the crime rate soaring, the city of 300,000 people about 80 miles east of San Francisco has an annual budget deficit of $26 million. It has laid off a quarter of its police force, which has meant that officers often respond only to crimes in progress.

The city’s crisis is not unique. San Bernardino in Southern California has also sought bankruptcy protection, and numerous other municipalities in the state and elsewhere are on a financial precipice. To fix its finances, Stockton is asking the bankruptcy court to restructure debts totaling about $250 million. But the city’s creditors, which include bondholders and insurance companies that have guaranteed some of its bonds, say the plans are unfair. They want the city to reduce the $30 million it spends annually on pension benefits for its 2,400 retirees.

Unlike private companies, which have often renegotiated labor contracts in bankruptcy, few municipalities have sought bankruptcy protection and used it to reduce vested pensions. The California Public Employees’ Retirement System, which manages Stockton’s pensions, argues that the state’s Constitution and court rulings forbid state and local governments from ever lowering the pensions of retirees and current employees.

The creditors assert that federal bankruptcy law, which lets judges break contracts, should trump state law. So far, city officials have said they do not intend to trim pensions, though they have reduced health benefits for retirees.

The case raises many fundamental and difficult questions about whether federal bankruptcy law should pre-empt state laws. Many legal analysts say that the Stockton case could eventually be appealed to the Supreme Court.
365 2013-04-14 A spokesman for the Russian Foreign Ministry, which released the tit-for-tat list on Saturday, said that Washington must realize that it cannot conduct its relationship with Moscow “in the spirit of mentoring and undisguised diktat.”

“Our principled opinion on this unfriendly step is well known: under the pressure of Russophobically inclined U.S. congressmen, a severe blow has been dealt to bilateral relations and mutual confidence,” said the spokesman, Aleksandr Lukashevich.

He added, “The war of lists is not our choice, but we had no right to leave this open blackmail unanswered.”

A State Department spokesman who declined to be identified said: “As we’ve said many times before, the right response by Russia to the international outcry over Sergei Magnitsky’s death would be to conduct a proper investigation and hold those responsible for his death accountable, rather than engage in tit-for-tat retaliation.”

Those on the list were not known to be frequent travelers to Russia, and at least one mocked Moscow’s move with a reference to President Vladimir V. Putin’s athletic endeavors. “Darn,” Mr. Yoo said in an e-mail. “There goes my judo match with Putin.”

The diplomatic tussle comes after a year of deepening strains between Russia and the United States, and on the eve of a visit by President Obama’s national security adviser, Tom Donilon. The Obama administration has sought Russian cooperation in crises in Syria and North Korea, and recently decided to scale back plans for a missile defense system in Europe, an irritant to Russia. But Mr. Putin attributes a wave of protests against his government to Western interference in domestic affairs, and is increasingly hostile to American criticism of his human rights record.

The Kremlin has made no comment since Friday, when the Obama administration announced that it had penalized about two dozen Russians, ordering their assets in the United States frozen and denying them entry to the country. There were no high-ranking officials among the 18 names made public on Friday, but a handful of other names are on a classified list — among them the Kremlin-allied leader of Chechnya, Ramzan A. Kadyrov, according to people briefed on the matter.

Mr. Kadyrov mocked the measure on Saturday in remarks to journalists, telling Interfax that he was glad to be on the list.

“I am proud that I am Russian, proud that I am unpleasant for America, because they are involved in outrages all over the world,” he said. “I love my homeland, and as I said, even if I were not on the list, even in that case I would not buy a ticket to America.”

Mr. Kadyrov is a close ally of Mr. Putin’s, and his reported inclusion on the classified list led the headlines in Russia on Saturday. With the Kremlin’s backing, Mr. Kadyrov has used harsh methods to suppress a separatist insurgency in the volatile southern region he leads. The public list of those Russians to be penalized included a man accused of gunning down one of Mr. Kadyrov’s former bodyguards who was providing evidence for a case against Mr. Kadyrov in the European Court of Human Rights.

Though pro-Kremlin analysts expressed some satisfaction on Friday, noting that the American list was relatively short and included no high-ranking officials, a top lawmaker sounded foreboding on Saturday.

“The U.S. has created a very negative background for Mr. Donilon’s arrival,” the lawmaker, Aleksei K. Pushkov, head of the International Affairs Committee in the lower house of Parliament, told the Interfax news agency.

A number of the Americans included on the list released by Moscow worked on Mr. Bout’s weapons-trafficking case, and the cocaine-trafficking case against Mr. Yaroshenko, both of which were heard in Federal District Court in Manhattan. Judge Jed S. Rakoff, who is included on the list, sentenced Mr. Yaroshenko to 20 years in prison. Mr. Yaroshenko, a pilot, was arrested in Liberia as part of a sting operation being run by the Drug Enforcement Administration and the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan.
366 2013-04-14 SYDNEY, Australia — At least five people have died and as many as 60 were missing on Saturday after a boat carrying people believed to be seeking asylum in Australia broke apart in the Sunda Strait, a patch of water between Sumatra and the main Indonesian island of Java.

An official from the Indonesian search-and-rescue authority, Basarnas, said his agency was still trying to gather accurate information amid sketchy and conflicting reports about the episode, which may have occurred as early as Wednesday morning. The ship was apparently headed to the Australian territory of Christmas Island, which is a popular port of call for boats carrying asylum seekers, who often brave the journey in overcrowded and rickety boats.

There was some confusion about whether one or two boats were involved, with conflicting accounts from Indonesian officials and the Australian Maritime Safety Authority, which said that it alerted Indonesian authorities on Friday morning to the sinking of a boat in the Sunda Strait. It was unclear whether the Australian agency was referring to the same vessel, which a survivor has said sank on Wednesday.

The leader of the Basarnas investigation team, Rohmali, who, like some Indonesians, uses only one name, told the Australian Associated Press that he would not commit to searching for possible survivors without clearer information about where the episode had occurred, saying that launching an aerial search at this point would be a “suicide mission.”

“We need solid information to start deploying helicopters and boats,” he said. “The area between Lampung and Sukabumi is huge while helicopters and boats have limited capacity of searching.”
367 2013-04-14 For years, Skidmore College included one or more short-answer questions on its supplement to the Common Application. Last year’s applicants had to respond to three prompts. One was: “Please share an example of an instance when you feel creative thought really did matter.” The answers were supposed to give Skidmore insights into applicants, says Mary Lou Bates, dean of admissions and financial aid. Yet some students and college counselors complained that the questions were too onerous. “We heard that our questions were the hardest,” she says. “And someone called them ‘the worst.’ ”

Ms. Bates has now concluded that the additional writing was not adding much to the evaluations, and the Common App essay is sufficient. “The answers felt very generic,” she says. So Skidmore removed the extra writing for students applying for the fall. After a few years of application declines, Skidmore saw a big jump this winter. The college received 8,200 applications, up from 5,700 last year. And more students (81 percent versus 75 percent) completed the application once they started it, a rise Ms. Bates attributes directly to the streamlined supplement.

The results may have as much to do with the ease of technology as with laziness. At the 11th hour, with anxious students looking for a few more colleges to apply to, those that don’t require additional writing look more appealing than those that do. “With the Common Application,” says Matthew J. DeGreeff, director of college counseling at the Middlesex School, in Concord, Mass., “you can drop 10 apps with a keystroke on Dec. 31.”

Though some students relish the opportunity to write about themselves, many view the requirement as a chore. So says Jay D. Bass, director of college counseling services at Thomas S. Wootton High School, in Rockville, Md. “Most juniors and seniors are not great writers,” he says. “Trying to figure out what colleges want to hear is stressful.”

Mr. Bass has wondered about the downside to supplemental essays. Additional requirements, he suggests, may deter low-income, first-generation applicants from applying to a particular college.

“For kids who do not have access to resources, or a parent who can sit down and help them with this,” he says, “does it impact their ability to meet what they think the college is looking for?”

Gregory W. Roberts has thought about that concern, but he says additional writing gives students more chances to make an impression. Mr. Roberts is dean of admissions at the University of Virginia, which requires two essays of about 250 words on its supplement in addition to the Common Application essay. “Asking for two short answers seems appropriate and reasonable,” he says. “Writing in a different format can give you a sense of different types of skills.” Admissions officers are looking not only at what students write, he says, but how they express themselves.

Applicants to U.Va.’s College of Arts and Sciences must describe a work of art, music, science, mathematics or literature that “surprised, unsettled or challenged” them; applicants to the schools of architecture, engineering and nursing are asked to explain their interest in those programs. All applicants must also choose one of four other prompts, including, “Discuss something you secretly like but pretend not to, or vice versa.”

Mr. Roberts recalls an essay written by an applicant from a poor family, who described her father coming home from the coal mines, his face covered in soot. In her essay, the student described why she had not participated in extracurricular activities — she had worked part-time jobs to help support her parents.

A memorable essay, Mr. Roberts says, “tells me someone knows how to write, and knows who he or she is,” and can help an applicant with middle-of-the-road test scores stand out.

Plenty of submissions fall short, however. “It’s shocking, the lack of effort we see in some essays,” he says. Yes, from time to time his staff comes across an essay that seems to have been repurposed (they know what’s being asked out there, and even a response to the quirkiest prompt can get broad after the first paragraph). He says he doesn’t really mind.

Of the four new topics presented by Boston College, the one about service to others has proved the most popular among applicants. Some responses have moved officials; the ones in which applicants recite their achievements and list their professional ambitions, not so much. “I don’t think everyone’s fully grasping the questions,” Mr. Mahoney says.

The requirement has some drawbacks. Previously, admissions officers read five applications an hour, but now they’re lucky to get through four, Mr. Mahoney says. Yet he believes the additional writing sample has helped his staff make better decisions.

“We’re trying to hear the student’s voice,” he says. And they know what they’ve heard came from applicants who were willing to type an extra 400 words.

Eric Hoover is a reporter for The Chronicle of Higher Education, covering college admissions.
368 2013-04-14 IS GIVING THE SECRET TO GETTING AHEAD?

Adam Grant, the Wharton professor described in Susan Dominus’s article, sounds extraordinary: prodigious in his accomplishments and in his service to others. You might walk away with the impression that his behavior is an example of altruism. But altruism requires that the giver’s only motivation is to benefit others. Grant admits that giving to others makes him feel good and advances his career. Grant’s story is better understood as a case of the more general principle: if you want something done, ask a busy person. STUART GREEN, Montclair, N.J.

I don’t begrudge Adam Grant his success, but it sounds to me as if his wife is the one putting in the 168-hour weeks taking care of the children at home, allowing Grant’s energies to be used productively and making his generosity possible. J.W., Kentucky, posted on nytimes.com

As a surgeon early in my career, I followed the advice on “learning to say no,” which was so prevalent in articles on work-life balance. Hogwash. Over the years I have developed an ethos similar to Grant’s, where I say “yes” to almost everything. I do things simply because they are right, not for a specific reward, and don’t worry about how others perceive this. Sometimes people notice, and I’m rewarded, other times people don’t realize I’m trying to help them, but either way I am so much happier. And I spend my hours after 5 p.m. and on weekends devoted to my family, friends or my own activities, not on work. SHARMILA DISSANAIKE M.D., Lubbock, Tex., posted on nytimes.com



SHOULD IT MATTER THAT THE SHOOTER AT OIKOS UNIVERSITY WAS KOREAN?

As a Korean-American, I can understand the author’s sentiments, including the cultural remorse and Korean-specific emotions like han and hwa-byung. But I am unsettled by the way Jay Caspian Kang implies that the Korean community as a whole was frozen in responding to the incident. I work at the Korean Community Center of the East Bay (mentioned in the article), and I was working on the day of the shooting. We were swamped by reporters demanding an answer to why the Korean community incubates violent shootings. It’s not our position to judge our community. Our focus was on finding ways to connect people with mental health services, something other organizations did, too. While some of my community does nothing, I know there are some taking action in their own way. YERI SHON, Oakland, Calif., posted on nytimes.com

As a Korean-American, I have to admit that my initial reaction to these shootings was shock and grief, of course, but also a desire for discussions of the shootings to go away. But I am thankful that the author is trying to engage people on how cultural character can affect how these tragedies happen and how the community deals with them. I have to believe, though, that a sense of social isolation, feeling like a victim of injustice and repressed rage, is not specific to Korean-Americans. We may never fully understand how each of the shooters in tragedies like this came to their breaking points, but it is critical for society to find ways to reach them. BORA LEE, Sag Harbor, N.Y., posted on nytimes.com

DO MILLENNIALS STAND A CHANCE IN THE REAL WORLD?

The thing many observe about millennials is how cutthroat they are, lacking in the sort of politeness that kids of my generation (born late ’60s) demonstrated toward those in charge. Millennials seem to trust no one. They enter the job market already feral. They assume that if they don’t audaciously demand things, they won’t get the bare minimum — and guess what? They’re probably right. JEN, New York, posted on nytimes.com
369 2013-04-14 An indulgent and elegant apartment on the 42nd floor of the Trump International Hotel and Tower, which was reconfigured to a two-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bath aerie from the original four bedrooms and six baths by the designer Jeffrey Bilhuber, sol...
370 2013-04-15 Dear Diary:&#xa;   &#xa;While waiting on the business class boarding line at J.F.K., I spied parents with their 3-month-old daughter....
371 2013-04-15 The proposal to restructure debt is the opening move in what many say could be a long and contentious battle between the company and its largest creditors....
372 2013-04-15 Gold prices tumbled 9 percent on Monday, the sharpest drop in 30 years, as stocks and other commodities also felt the impact of a disappointing report on Chinese growth....
373 2013-04-15 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. For Monday, selections include highly compensated at Apple, where four of the five highest-paid employees at the nation’s biggest companie...
374 2013-04-15 Amsterdam’s Rijksmuseum reopened over the weekend with renovations by Jean-Michel Wilmotte, the same architect behind the refurbished galleries at the Louvre in Paris....
375 2013-04-15 Part 11: The actors talk about how a show can evolve and transform over the course of its run, and the role audiences play in that.
376 2013-04-15 The effort to use this case to “prove” that abortion is wrong, is wrongheaded...
377 2013-04-15 More black and Hispanic male high school students than their white counterparts said they had carried a gun at least once in the previous month, a federal study found....
378 2013-04-15 A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors....
379 2013-04-15 The second episode of the “Mad Men” season is filled with more affairs and boorish behavior — and, of course, historical flashpoints....
380 2013-04-15 Doctors often prescribe potentially harmful drugs to older patients, and the problem is particularly acute in the South, a new study shows....
381 2013-04-15 A declining deficit? A global recession? Why some small businesses are hungry to hire. Do you expect to buy PCs this year?...
382 2013-04-15 Political news from today’s Times and a look at the latest happenings in Washington....
383 2013-04-15 I’m 60 years old, came of age as a long-haired, antiwar, hippie sort who did pretty much everything there was to do at U.C.L.A. in the early 1970s and remembers most of it.

After earning a graduate degree in journalism at Columbia University, I spent 25 years at daily newspapers in New Jersey and Florida and these last seven, have worked in academia.

Along the way, there has been a 23-year marriage and two daughters, both smart and talented. Jolie, 16, is artistic; Aleeza, 11, is certain she’ll be an anthropologist or research psychologist and write fiction for young adults on the side.

In many ways we have lived good, full lives.

The thing is, we were so busy living we didn’t think enough about how life might get less kind and where that might take us.

We didn’t set aside enough for savings, retirement or college tuition.

When Ruth and I married in 1989, I had been a reporter at a suburban New Jersey paper for eight years. She ran an independent bookstore and would later go back to school for a master’s in social work. At the start, we earned enough for rent, food and outings to local watering holes, but little more.

We weren’t in it for the money anyway; we loved our work and believed we were making a difference in our little world.

It was a middle-class life revolving around our local Jewish community, with a lot of friends to share Passover Seders and Yom Kippur fasts, births, birthdays, bar mitzvahs, weddings and funerals.

We were able to buy a condo and a few years later parlayed that into a cozy little house.

Meals out, books, tickets to see Bruce Springsteen and the Grateful Dead.

Each summer, we rented a spartan, lakeside cabin in Maine where we read and maybe indulged in a little shopping spree at the outlet stores in Freeport.

Even so, there were moments when a still, small voice inside my head whispered that all was not right.

We lived paycheck to paycheck, used credit cards more than we should have, bought lunch at work when we could have made our own.

It was easy to ignore the whispers because we seemed to be moving upward. I took a job at a bigger paper in New Jersey and then spent a year on the road teaching journalism seminars. When Ruth got pregnant, I joined The Miami Herald, where my new reporting job meant less travel and more time for the family.

We bought a house and four years later parlayed it into the much nicer place where we now live.

I got a substantial raise when I moved to The Miami Daily Business Review. After staying home with our firstborn, Ruth got her Florida social work license and a job.

For the Jewish holidays, we flew back to New Jersey to be with our friends and once or twice a year, visited my parents in California.

We ate out a good deal and took the girls to Disney World a few times.

When our older daughter started school in 2003 we sent her to a Jewish day school because we wanted our children to get the religious and moral education parochial schools offer; when her younger sister turned 5, we enrolled her, too. In summers, we sent them to a Jewish sleep-away camp in northern Georgia.

Ruth left social work and took a job at the day school’s library to offset some of the tuition costs, but even with generous scholarships, school and camp set us back nearly $20,000 a year.

Not one of these things felt extravagant at the time, but taken together, I can see now, they left us with no cushion when events beyond our control took over.

In early 2005, my father was found to have inoperable cancer and I lost my job at The Miami Daily Business Review to shrinking ad revenue and declining profits.

Each month I flew to Los Angeles to be with Dad. I knew the trips were beyond our means, but I was pretty sure I wouldn’t think, “What a waste of money to spend time with my father this past year.” He died in mid-2006.

Fortunately for us — we thought — housing values kept climbing and credit was cheap. It took no more than a phone call to get an interest-only home equity loan for which we probably didn’t qualify, given that I had just lost my job, and three-quarters of our income.

No matter. Our house was appraised at $400,000-plus, so it made perfect sense to refinance. Or so we thought.

About then, all those balls we’d been keeping in the air started falling on our heads. The real estate market collapsed and our $400,000-plus house became a $200,000-minus house, leaving a mortgage payment that today sucks up more than 40 percent of our take-home pay.

After six months out of work, I was offered a full-time position at Florida International University, where I had been an adjunct. And while I love teaching, it meant a $25,000 pay cut.

Ruth was laid off from her job at the Jewish school’s library. Within days, she got a social work job, but by then the economy was plunging and she was soon out of work once more. Not until mid-2011 did she find her current job working with impoverished Holocaust survivors. It’s fulfilling work, but it’s also $6,000 less a year than she had been making.

Desperate, we borrowed what we could from our life insurance policies to stay afloat, but it wasn’t enough.

Then, five months ago, the process server turned up in our driveway.

How long it will still be our driveway is hard to say.

The house is probably lost, though we continue to negotiate for a mortgage modification and have retained a lawyer.

Our credit score has plummeted and we’re contemplating bankruptcy.

We eat at home and have become expert at making soup out of leftovers. We borrow movies and books from the library instead of paying $10 for a ticket at theaters.

Thrift stores have become Ruth and the girls’ go-to haberdashers, and I’m clothed for a year with a couple of pairs of jeans and a growing collection of 50-cent, garage-sale Hawaiian shirts.

Maybe people will think we’re wrong for this, but we’ve decided to keep the girls in private school and send them to camp. If it comes down to losing the house or getting them an education we believe in, we’ve decided we’ll have to give up the house.

Our only travel is an occasional weekend, courtesy of Florida real estate companies, which delude themselves into thinking we’ll buy one of their time shares if only they offer us free accommodations and tickets to Disney World.

For a long while, the mood at home was dismal.

We didn’t fight, but those easy conversations between Ruth and me ceased, replaced by abrupt exchanges about who is picking up which girl, what’s for dinner and why aren’t the kids doing their homework.

For a long time we numbed our minds and cut ourselves off from each other with music, TV, computer games, books, text messages or sleep.

When things seemed as if they couldn’t get worse, the bathtub sprang a leak.

Finally, I couldn’t stand it any more.

One afternoon, something went off in my head — I think I was listening to an NPR show, but can’t even remember any more.

We can recriminate ourselves for our mistakes, but that changes nothing. We can be angry at our misfortune and take it out on one another, but that doesn’t help, either.

So, I suggested we try happiness.

It’s tough, but the four of us try every night to tell one another about something in our day that made us happy.

We make small gestures: a $4 bouquet of flowers from the drugstore; an unasked-for cup of tea; an unexpected kiss.

That’s all we can do: Shrug our shoulders. Live our lives. Try to make one another smile. And wait to see how it turns out.
384 2013-04-15 Ford and General Motors announced that they would jointly develop a new generation of 9- and 10-speed automatic transmissions....
385 2013-04-15 Many of the hedge fund leaders who had giant paydays last year earned their riches by posting big returns. But even weak results can produce lavish take-home pay....
386 2013-04-15 In a telephone interview on Sunday, Mr. Weiner tried to restrict the conversation to the ideas in the policy document, repeatedly declining to answer inquiries about how seriously he was considering a candidacy.

“I would take it on face value,” he said of the report. “I want these issues to be discussed and debated irrespective of who’s in the race.”

He acknowledged that the report was an “amalgam” of his ideas over the years, but he became exasperated when pressed on the similarities between the document and its 2008 predecessor. “To some degree, this is the problem with reporting on politics these days,” he said, trailing off before exhaling loudly.

Mr. Weiner was asked if the timing of the release, coming shortly after the Times Magazine article, could be viewed as a signal that he would soon enter the race. “I’ll leave it to the reader to try to derive motivation,” he replied.

Mr. Weiner’s exploration of a mayoral bid, including his commissioning of a series of telephone polls of New York City voters, has attracted national headlines and provoked a variety of reactions from leading politicians.

Eliot Spitzer, the former New York governor who resigned after his own sex scandal, said in a radio interview on Saturday that Mr. Weiner “will make it as a serious candidate if he plunges in, as I think he will.” Mr. Spitzer added, “He will have to persuade the public. He can do it.”

Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, Mr. Weiner’s former mentor, would not comment on the matter when asked about it on a Sunday talk show. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, on his Friday radio show, urged the news media to focus on Mr. Weiner’s policies, saying, “One joke is fine; after that, let’s get serious.”

In the policy booklet, heavy on statistics, Mr. Weiner lays out a case for dozens of proposals.

He calls for so-called instant runoff elections, in which voters would rank their preferred candidates, to avoid the cost of holding a citywide runoff two weeks after the primary. He says the city should offer tax breaks to employers that encourage their workers to commute by bicycle.

Mr. Weiner also declares any congestion pricing proposal as “dead,” and suggests the city focus instead on reducing truck traffic and installing parking meters that can adjust prices based on demand.

A section on health care proposes that the city create its own health care program for “uninsured and underinsured” New Yorkers. Mr. Weiner also suggests that city workers be required to pay a portion of their health care premium costs.

The earlier report was released in July 2008, with the same skyline logo and same description of New York as “the capital of the middle class” as the report Mr. Weiner released on Sunday.

Vast chunks of the text from the 2008 report have been transferred, verbatim in many cases, to the 2013 version. In other instances, phrases and sentences have been repeated, but rearranged or slightly reworded.

Some adjustments appeared to have been made for the purpose of timeliness. In 2008, Mr. Weiner wrote: “For every investor who has a made a killing during an I.P.O., there’s a neighborhood pharmacist who has been put out of business by a big chain.”

In the new document, there is a version of that sentence more in line with today’s post-crash Wall Street: “For every private equity firm that made a fortune, there’s a neighborhood pharmacist who has been put out of business by a big chain.”

The word “impotent,” which appeared in the earlier version in a description of the city’s relationship with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, has been removed from the 2013 version.

The cover of the 2008 report featured a neighborhood tableau of elevated train tracks and a corner-store pharmacy; that image has been replaced with glossy snapshots of New York landmarks from each of the five boroughs.

And a photograph of Mr. Weiner no longer appears on the cover. His former title, Representative, has also been excised.
387 2013-04-15 Jedediah Purdy makes a logical case for why consumers should have information about the animals they consume and the conditions in which they were raised and slaughtered — the opposite of the proposed legislation in many states to label activists as terrorists.

But when one contemplates the scale of the immense movement of animals, a more impassioned rationale on behalf of the animals is in order, with no politesse necessary.

The fact is that if consumers see inhumane treatment of these sentient creatures, they will either stop or curtail their consumption of animals. Or changes will occur in how our animals are treated, because not only vegetarians care about humane kindness but meat eaters as well.

As Mr. Purdy notes, consumers hold the levers for change, and the industry knows it. The third world is quickly following in its demand and appetite for meat. We must export decency in the care and practices of its consumption, and to do that, we first have to put in place basic humane conditions as a country.

You should be commended for your coverage of and opposition to so-called state ag-gag laws, which through various means make it illegal to conduct undercover investigations at agricultural businesses (“Videos Show Cruelty on Farm, and Taping Becomes the Crime,” front page, April 7; “Eating With Our Eyes Closed,” editorial, April 10).
388 2013-04-15 A number of hedge-fund leaders had mega paydays last year by posting big returns on their investments....
389 2013-04-15 Very few have gone so far as training teachers and other faculty members to carry weapons, and support for such measures seems to be lukewarm. Bills to allow school employees to arm themselves are stalling in most of the roughly two dozen states where they were introduced this year.

But the community making up the 600-student Fairview School, where a sign at the main entrance reads “Drug Free Gun Free School Zone,” represents a culture in which the idea of guns in classrooms is not necessarily intimidating. Hunting a variety of game like deer and turkey is as routine a form of recreation here in the craggy, wooded Ozarks of south-central Missouri as beer and baseball is in some parts of the nation.

By the time they are 6, many young boys and girls already have learned how to safely handle a weapon and have shot their first deer. Some live in homes where guns are not under lock and key, or on vast prairies where they shoot skeet with their families.

Sherri Roy, who has four children at the school, said in an interview that she “was really pleased” that some staff members were armed.

“If I didn’t know anything about guns, if I wasn’t raised with it, I’m sure I would be more uncomfortable,” she said. “But in this area guns are pretty much a normal, everyday part of your life.”

But even in a place where hunting rifles are a staple of most households, attitudes about armed teachers are diverse.

Fairview is one of five schools on the outskirts of West Plains, serving families mostly living outside the city. Administrators at some of the other rural schools have shunned the idea of allowing staff members to carry guns.

Though it would take the Howell County Sheriff’s Department at least 15 minutes to respond to any trouble at Glenwood School on the outskirts of West Plains, Karen Moffis, the principal, said that allowing employees to carry guns would be more dangerous than beneficial. Instead, the school is looking to better secure its entrances and is considering hiring an armed guard, she said.

And it is not that she is uncomfortable around guns — she got her first when she was 6 years old. A teacher at the school gives lessons on firearms safety on campus after hours.

“Traditionally in this area, schools have already been a very safe and welcoming community,” Ms. Moffis said. Referring to teachers having guns in the classroom, she added, “Nobody’s ever thought about needing that kind of thing at school.”

Fairview, which runs from kindergarten through eighth grade, is a lot like any other grammar school. Colorful linoleum tiles line the floors, projects made of construction paper are taped to the walls, and the cafeteria, on a recent day, reeked of nachos.

After the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown that killed 26 people, administrators at Fairview said some parents approached them about allowing teachers to carry guns. Becky Wright-Welty, whose 13-year-old son attends the school, said she asked the Fairview School District’s board members: “What are we doing about security? I want to know.”

One of the biggest concerns of administrators and parents was that the quickest the sheriff’s department could reach Fairview, the district’s only school, would be nine minutes.

The school board, which includes a former county sheriff, worked out the details of liability coverage with Fairview’s insurance provider. Then, at an open meeting in late February, it authorized some of the school employees to undergo a training program that would certify them to carry guns on campus.

Those employees took a 40-hour course during spring break last month through a company called Shield Solutions, whose instructors included local SWAT team members. The training, which was paid for by the school, included firearms and situational drills. The employees, who have furnished their own guns, each also had to pass a background check, a drug test and a mental evaluation — all of which must be repeated annually, as well as additional firearms training and recertification.

“It’s not a ‘Well, here’s your gun; carry it,’ ” said Vic Williams, the Fairview superintendent. “It’s very closely monitored. It’s not a Clint Eastwood-type deal.”

At the first school board meeting after spring break, the board sanctioned those who had passed the training — and were then also considered Shield Solutions employees — to carry weapons at school. Most of West Plains learned the news from the front-page article in The Quill on March 21. Four days later, the district sent a letter to parents addressing concerns.

“I was really upset more about the way it happened, the back door,” said Eileen Wilson, 53, adding that she was considering removing her daughter, who is autistic, from Fairview. “I just don’t think something of this magnitude is something you just put out in a press release. ‘Oh, by the way, we got 10 people packing weapons now in school.’ ”

School officials would not say how many employees were armed or who they were. They maintained that the process was transparent.

“I didn’t think about it being that groundbreaking,” Dea Daniel, a board member, said of the discussion to train teachers on guns. “That same meeting we talked about how we could secure our windows or our doors. There was a lot of discussion. That was just one of the many safety issues we talked about.”

With few exceptions, school officials said, parents have reacted positively.

One of the school employees who carries a gun said in an interview that “it was a little strange putting it on the first couple days,” but that it had come to feel normal carrying the gun in school.

“You put your pants on, you put your belt on, that’s just what you do,” the employee said on the condition of anonymity. “Nothing awkward about it at all. I’ve been hugged many times before and since, and it’s never been any kind of an issue or question.”
390 2013-04-15 Now, the backlog is growing. As the American pullout hits full pace and bases across the country are shut down, hundreds of Afghans have suddenly found themselves without jobs, leaving them without military protection despite the continued risk of attack by the Taliban.

The danger is especially real for the estimated 8,000 interpreters who have worked for the Americans. Though no one tracks the targeted violence figures, anecdotal evidence is grim — at least a few people are said to be killed each month. In February, two interpreters were gunned down in Logar Province south of Kabul, the same province where Sulaiman was first attacked. In December, an interpreter working in Jalalabad was singled out while heading home on leave. The Taliban killed his two brothers in the attack.

Sulaiman, 26, who asked to be identified only by his first name so as not to put his family at greater risk, is one of the relatively lucky ones. He is still employed, and his American military colleagues are working hard to help him.

But he is still waiting. He believes a 2008 visa application was lost in the bureaucratic ether. A second application, in late 2011, yielded an embassy interview last year. Since then, though, he has received automated responses to his entreaties. The State Department declined to talk about his case.

Several of his Special Operations colleagues have fired off letters imploring the State Department to expedite his application, adding to the stack of recommendations lauding his skills and courage.

“If this takes too long, if there is an error somewhere, he’s compromised and his family is compromised,” said his current supervisor, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of security reasons. “We kind of feel like we’re watching the clock wind down right now.”

The urgency among Afghans to receive visas mirrors the situation in Iraq on the eve of the American military pullout there. Only in Iraq, the system, while still problematic, has been better equipped to deal with the visa situation brought on by the withdrawal, thanks to the intervention of lawmakers, including Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts in 2008.

Among the disparities between the programs are the number of visas available — 7,500 in Afghanistan versus 25,000 in Iraq; the family members eligible to join the applicant — strictly wife and dependent children in Afghanistan versus parents, siblings and all children in Iraq. Other differences include the additional avenues for recourse — almost none for Afghans, versus the ability to apply directly to the United States for refugee status as an Iraqi.

So far, about 22 percent of the available visas for Iraqis have been granted, according to a letter to the State Department and White House from concerned members of Congress. The figure is closer to 12 percent for Afghans, the letter states.

“In my opinion, the story in Afghanistan is a sorry, shabby echo of what’s happening in Iraq,” said Kirk W. Johnson, the founder of the List Project, an organization that assists Iraqi refugees in obtaining visas to the United States.

Thousands of Afghan applicants are caught in an approval process that lasts more than two years. As many as 5,000 were waiting to begin the process as of last fall.

The State Department declined to comment on the number of applications submitted, the backlog or any phase of the visa approval process. Privately, some officials say the consular division has doubled resources to increase its processing ability, though that has not been publicly announced or confirmed.

To kick-start the process, some American lawmakers say that as early as this month, they plan to introduce legislation to extend the timeline for visa programs in Iraq and Afghanistan and to broaden the type of family members who can come along.

“The extension and reform of these programs is a matter of national security, and these programs represent an important tool for the U.S. operations in Afghanistan,” according to a March 5 letter sent to the White House and the State Department, signed by 19 members of Congress.

Among the things that will not change is that Afghans who worked for American companies, including the news media and nongovernmental organizations, will still not be eligible for the special visas, even though such Iraqis are eligible. And legislators are not seeking additional visas for Afghans.

As it stands, issuing the available visas has been hard enough.

State Department figures through December suggest the agency would have to grant about 1,200 visas a month to use all 7,500 visas before the so-called Afghan Allies program expires at the end of fiscal year 2013. Put another way, consular officials would need to issue more than four times the visas they did in their most productive year, 2009, every month.

State Department officials say there is no priority given to certain applications — such a measure would be hard to enforce fairly.

Still, Sulaiman’s situation would seem to present a clear-cut case of need.

He has been working with the Americans for 10 years. When he was 16, he caught the attention of a Special Operations team by confronting them in English as they walked through his neighborhood. Amused, they asked him if he wanted a job. He started training immediately.

Since then, he has worked as a combat interpreter for coalition forces in all but four provinces across the country, translating battle strategy to Afghan forces in the middle of firefights and high-level meetings with elders in contested villages, among other efforts. He has been on more than 300 missions, and his ties to Special Operations put him in even more danger than most interpreters.

The job has also cost him a sense of identity. Having spent so much of his adolescent years around American military bases, he struggles to relate to other Afghans. At times, he seems almost startlingly American: he speaks English with a faint Midwestern accent and wears a North Face jacket. Everyone on base calls him Sam. “I’ve spent more time inside the base with Americans than I have with my family,” Sulaiman said. “I feel more at home on the base.”

His commitment, his supervisors say, has never wavered. If he makes it to the United States, he hopes to join the military and attend the Army Ranger School.

“I could ask Sam to do anything tomorrow, and he wouldn’t even blink,” his American supervisor said.

But Sulaiman’s desperation is growing. In December, fearing another attack, he sent another e-mail to the American Embassy in Kabul. In it, he explained that he had not been able to go home for months because of the risk to him and his family, and implored them to look at his visa application again.

An auto-reply arrived in his in-box a few hours later: his application required further processing.

“Individuals who believe they are in peril in their place of residence should consider leaving that location and moving to another nearby safe place, inside or outside the country,” the e-mail said.
391 2013-04-15 Amid all this turmoil in the industry, Intel is also scrambling to find a new leader. In November, Paul Otellini, who had been chief executive since 2005, unexpectedly announced his resignation. “It’s time to move on and transfer Intel’s helm to a new generation of leadership,” he said at the time, declining to elaborate on why he was leaving three years before reaching the company’s retirement age of 65.

His decision left the company in limbo. “It looks like there was no succession plan in place, and that is troubling,” said Hans Mosesmann, an analyst at Raymond James. “They are probably a month away from Otellini leaving, and nothing is settled.”

While the board has been looking at external candidates, the new chief will almost certainly come from within. In contrast to Silicon Valley’s culture of job-hopping, at Intel someone with 15 years’ experience can be called a newcomer. The company’s leaders believe that it is critical for the chief executive to be steeped in the company culture.

“The job of the board is to pick the candidate who can best grow into the job,” said a person with knowledge of the search, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. “Intel has to define its next act.”

In the meantime, Mr. Bryant, who has been at Intel for 32 years and served as its longtime chief financial officer, has been trying to prepare employees for a new era.

“He says that the customers have changed, and we have to as well,” said a person attending one of Mr. Bryant’s meetings, who was not authorized to speak publicly. “Where the revenue is now is not where the revenue is coming from in the future.”

Intel declined to make Mr. Otellini, Mr. Bryant or any other officials available for an interview, citing the quiet period before its first-quarter earnings report, due out on Tuesday. Those earnings, which will most likely reflect the collapsing demand for PCs, will follow the drops in revenue, operating margins and net income of 2012.

Analysts say the two top contenders to be Intel’s next C.E.O. are Brian Krzanich and David Perlmutter, who are close to Intel’s core business. Mr. Krzanich, Intel’s chief operating officer, oversees its fabrication facilities. Mr. Perlmutter, the chief product officer, oversees chip design.

Renee James, the head of Intel’s software group, is considered a more remote chance to run what has long been a hardware company. And Stacy Smith, Intel’s chief financial officer, is well liked inside and outside the company, but like Mr. Otellini, lacks an engineering background, which diminishes his prospects.

Revealing just how hard it would be for an outsider to step into the top job at Intel, the newcomer of these four joined Intel in 1988. But close watchers of the company wonder whether its insular culture is up to the challenge of expanding to different kinds of customers and devices.

“In this new world, with smartphones and tablets, and cloud computing, things are moving around fast,” said Hector Ruiz, the former chief executive of Advanced Micro Devices, Intel’s top competitor in making PC chips. “Intel has the talent, engineering, and resources, but they are their own worst enemy.”

Mr. Ruiz recently published a book about his efforts to sue Intel for monopolistic practices, which he said were the natural result of its paranoia. Intel paid A.M.D. $1.25 billion to settle the case after he left the company, but Intel has consistently denied it engaged in monopolistic practices.

The idea that Intel put the squeeze on its customers has been around Silicon Valley for years, but has never been proved. With Intel controlling 80 percent of the PC market at times, and PC makers facing low profit margins, any supply interruption from Intel could be disastrous.

But any such threat may be less significant in the future.

At a meeting last week in New York, Hewlett-Packard, a longtime buyer of Intel’s server chips, showed off a server built for the cloud that ran on a low-power Intel chip, called Atom. But sharing the limelight were representatives of four other companies that will sell chips to H.P. for other versions of the machine.

Even Microsoft has been moving away from its longtime partner as it tries to adapt to the new, post-PC world. Last year, Microsoft built its own tablet, with versions carrying chips from Intel or Nvidia, another Intel rival. Its new Xbox game console will use chips made by A.M.D. And the company’s mobile version of Windows 8 is designed for smartphones that run on chips from Qualcomm.

Microsoft declined to comment on its relationship with Intel.

Intel figures its survival depends on preserving its leading position in cutting-edge semiconductors, despite the high design and manufacturing costs. Future generations of the Atom chip, which can also be used in tablets, phones and other devices, are expected to offer better performance, including a longer battery life. So will the next version of its chip for PCs, called Haswell, which will be used in products in the second half of 2013.

“I contest that this market is in decline,” said Mark Bohr, a senior fellow in Intel’s technology and manufacturing group. “Today’s marketplace is a lot broader than 10 years ago. We have got to build for small tablets and big mainframe computers, build more flavors of each chip, and cover more bases.”

Mr. Otellini has been criticized for responding slowly to the mobile challenge and cloud-based computing. His efforts have been modest, geared to learning how to listen and respond better to customers.

The company has worked with wireless phone companies outside the United States to make smartphones and tablets, which the companies then label as their own.

In its greatest departure, later this year Intel will sell a moderately priced television set-top box and subscription service, which it says will offer enough regular television content to serve as a substitute for a cable subscription.

The effort involves just 300 of Intel’s 105,000 employees, most of them brought in from other companies, and has required cooperation with both Hollywood content companies and retailers. It is such a big change of direction that people following the company cannot tell if it is another effort to learn more about consumer tastes, a diversification into a whole new area or the old Intel deciding it has what it takes to face another rival, in the form of cable companies.

For at least the next few years, it must rely on making chips for servers and PCs, which can still bring the company significant amounts of cash even as their popularity wanes.

“Intel still has a lot of dough,” Mr. Mosesmann said, “but their old world is cracking.”
392 2013-04-15 “When it works, you get your Michael Jordan,” Mr. Swangard said, but “what’s at issue is whether the recent missteps with several athletes” — including Mr. Woods, Lance Armstrong, Kobe Bryant and Oscar Pistorius — “call into question their ability to vet the athletes and judge the market.”

Davide Grasso, vice president for global brand marketing at Nike, who has worked for the company since 1993, acknowledged the effects of what he called “a great time of change.”

Nike is on “a journey, a long-term journey for the brand,” Mr. Grasso said in a phone interview on Friday. “As we continue to grow in size, it’s important we stay connected. If you take away the toys and the noise, it’s about having a relationship.”

Asked if he was nostalgic for the past, Mr. Grasso turned — appropriately, perhaps, for a Nike executive — to star athletes.

“Is Pelé better than Messi?” he asked, referring to the soccer stars Pelé and Lionel Messi, then, switching sports, he added, “It’s difficult to compare John McEnroe and Roger Federer.”

Nike is now a behemoth with $24 billion in annual sales rather than an upstart that famously used unconventional marketing tactics to gain attention and favor. Nike spent more than $3.2 billion to run ads in major media from 1995 through 2012, according to the Kantar Media unit of WPP, including $115.7 million last year, an increase of 20.2 percent from $96.3 million in 2011.

“The maturity of the brand creates an inherent challenge because you’re no longer the new kid on the block,” said Mr. Swangard, and as a result Nike executives “run the risk of being the victim of their own success.”

Allen Adamson, managing director of the New York office of Landor Associates, a brand and corporate identity consultancy, said: “The bigger the brand, the harder it is to stay trendy and current. It’s hard to be cutting edge when you’re established.”

Nike’s sheer longevity as a top-flight marketer points to another struggle: demographics. The consumers who loved its products, and ads, in the 1980s and 1990s are now older, while consumers who are younger — the age group most likely to discuss ads — perceive Nike differently.

The 2013 loyalty engagement survey conducted by Brand Keys, which specializes in brand and customer loyalty consulting, found that among athletic-shoe brands, Nike ranks second with consumers ages 45 to 65, third with consumers ages 25 to 44 and fifth with consumers ages 18 to 24.

“It’s good news, bad news,” said Robert Passikoff, president at Brand Keys. “Nike is a leader, but it’s ubiquitous; the swoosh is on everything, and people just look past it.”

“Is there a sentient being who doesn’t know the Nike brand?” he asked rhetorically. “But knowing the Nike brand is different from being engaged with the brand.”

As Mr. Adamson put it, “No matter how well Nike’s doing, if your dad’s wearing Nikes, maybe you don’t want to wear Nikes — no matter how cool your dad is.”

Another problem facing Nike is that the way the brand speaks in ads is no longer that novel. Many marketers now emulate the company’s irreverent, assertive tone and tack.

“Nike really revolutionized the sports advertising industry, and sports, especially, is a copycat industry,” said Steve Smith, a sports lawyer who is a partner at the Bryan Cave law firm. “You see somebody doing something that works, you’ll do it, too.”

“It’s a tribute to Nike,” he added, “but I’m sure it puts pressure on Nike and its advertising agencies.”

Some brands that emulate Nike, like Adidas, Reebok and Under Armour, are also its competitors. Others, like ESPN, Old Spice and Red Bull, are in different fields.

“A lot of brands have learned from Nike along the way,” said Jez Frampton, global chief executive at Interbrand, the corporate and brand identity consultancy. “Companies like Red Bull have done a good job adopting what Nike has done.”

As a result, he added, it often appears that Nike is “competing against itself” — a perception perhaps deepened by the involvement of Nike’s creative ad agency, Wieden & Kennedy, in creating campaigns for brands like ESPN and Old Spice.

David Schwab, senior vice president at Octagon First Call, a division of Octagon, the sports and entertainment marketing agency, agreed that Nike “absolutely competes against a brand like Red Bull” for “that moment in the consumer’s mind.”

Mr. Schwab praised Red Bull as among the brands that are “getting smarter about how to reach people,” citing its sponsorship of the highest and fastest sky-dive on record by the daredevil Felix Baumgartner. A video of the stunt on YouTube has been watched more than 33.5 million times.

“There is tone-of-voice convergence” between Nike and other brands, Mr. Grasso of Nike said, making it “much more difficult to catch people’s attention.”

If there is a perception that Nike’s marketing efforts have lost some of their novelty, innovative products like Nike iD (where customers can design their own shoes), Nike FuelBand and Flyknit running shoes have recently helped Nike improve its financial performance. For instance, gross margins in the fiscal third quarter, which ended on Feb. 28, rose for the first time in two years.

And like all marketers, Nike is coming to terms with the biggest shift in the landscape: the fragmentation of audiences, and media, makes it difficult to get the proverbial “everyone” discussing the same ads at the same time as was the case decades ago.

“Fifteen years ago, people could have been reached primarily with TV, print, out of home and radio,” Mr. Grasso said, which represent “a fraction” of the media they consume now.

Here, Nike has excelled, uploading to YouTube big commercials for big events like the Olympics and the World Cup and maintaining a major presence in other social media like Twitter, where Nike has more than a million followers, and Facebook, where more than 12.6 million people “like” the brand.

In fact, the ad last month that congratulated Mr. Woods appeared as posts on Facebook and Twitter rather than television or print ads.

“Nike is evolving, figuring out how to market to consumers in this new age,” Mr. Schwab of Octagon First Call said. “It’s not just about the 30-second commercial.”

And Mr. Frampton of Interbrand described how his son, age 15, “spent roughly an hour over the weekend on a Nike Web site, building his own Nike iD shoes.”
393 2013-04-15 Rasheed Wallace, the Knicks veteran with the scruffy beard, has been on the court before games for the last month practicing his jumper, mostly from behind the 3-point line. He may get the chance to do it in a situation that counts when the Knicks visit the Charlotte Bobcats on Monday.

Before the Knicks’ 90-80 victory Sunday against the Indiana Pacers, Coach Mike Woodson said Wallace was close to returning to the lineup. He has been rehabilitating his left foot for the last seven weeks after having surgery in late February, a procedure that at the time seemed to put Wallace’s season, and perhaps his career, in jeopardy. But Wallace, 38, is a week ahead of schedule in his recovery.

“He’s been busting his behind,” Raymond Felton said of Wallace’s approach to his rehabilitation. “Trust me.”

Woodson plans to rest his starters in the final two games of the regular season after Sunday’s victory clinched the No. 2 seed in the playoffs for the Knicks. That opens the door for Wallace, who declined to speak to reporters Sunday, to play against the Bobcats and, on Wednesday, against the Atlanta Hawks in the regular-season finale, testing his foot and conditioning.

The Knicks have not practiced in recent weeks, but Wallace participated in the team’s walk-through Sunday and was on the court with his teammates Thursday for a shootaround before their game against the Bulls in Chicago. Woodson said Wallace had been running on the court for the last few days.
394 2013-04-15 ¶TiVo, Alviso, Calif., named Olson, Minneapolis, as agency of record for advertising, the Web, consumer public relations and engagement in social media. Although spending was not disclosed, TiVo spent more than $40 million last year on marketing. The advertising, digital and social parts of the assignment had been handled internally by TiVo; the consumer public relations duties had been handled by Allison & Partners, part of MDC Partners.

¶Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, formally acknowledged that it had named Droga5, New York, as the creative agency for the Diet Coke brand in North America, which replaces Wieden & Kennedy, Portland, Ore. The company previously said it had assigned Diet Coke project work to Droga5, but when a commercial for Diet Coke featuring Taylor Swift was introduced last week, Coca-Cola referred to Droga5 in a news release as the brand’s “recently appointed agency of record.” Droga5 is also the agency of record for Coke Zero in North America.

¶Cory Berger joined Pereira & O’Dell in a new post, as managing director of the New York office of the agency, which is based in San Francisco. He had been vice president for business development and client services at Noise, New York.

¶Gonzalo Del Fa, managing director at MEC Bravo, part of the MEC unit of GroupM, was named to lead a new division of GroupM, called GroupM Multicultural, as president. GroupM is owned by WPP.

¶Liz Musch, global chief executive at the Ipsos Loyalty division of Ipsos, Paris, was named global chief executive at the Ipsos ASI division, succeeding Alex Gronberger, who becomes regional chief executive for Ipsos Latin America.
395 2013-04-15 The humane association argues that it is struggling to meet the challenges of protecting animals in an era of modern filmmaking. “We’re not covering enough animal action, because of the way the business model in the industry has changed,” Robin R. Ganzert, the association’s chief executive, said in a phone interview last month.

Ms. Ganzert and others suggest that the association’s resources and authority are too limited in an era that has brought the proliferation of smaller productions — like indie films, cable TV and even Internet productions — as well as a sharp rise in public expectations regarding animal safety.

Many of these issues will get a hearing at a planned meeting on Wednesday at the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences here. So far, however, studio response has been cautious. Queried about plans to attend, no major studio except Warner Brothers confirmed that it would attend.

Film companies generally value the association’s certification, which tends to allay public concern about animal scenes, and few would suggest that the current financial shortfalls are beyond the reach of an industry that churns through billions of dollars in revenue each year. But the studios have yet to address the problem, partly because executives are wary of meddling with a financing system devised to operate at arm’s length.

Still, word of the planned get-together is provoking a fierce reaction among animal trainers and others who have not been invited (though a trainer will join a panel discussion). Some suspect the association of a power-grab that is meant to increase income, and cover its own failings.

Trainers, who are already heavily regulated by state and federal officials, are particularly incensed by the idea that the association might seek to extend its authority beyond film sets, to include certification of those who house and supply animals — something they see as an attempt to bolster funds by tapping them for fees.

“It feels to us that they’re becoming an animal rights organization no longer interested in what’s right and wrong in the industry, but only in collecting money,” said Benay Karp, an animal-keeper whose company is equipped to supply trained skunks, prairie dogs, hummingbirds or, if the scene calls for it, a rhinoceros.

In January, Ms. Karp led an uprising in which about three dozen trainers and others confronted association officials at their Studio City office. The trainers complained that the group had failed to back them in disputes with aggressive producers and directors, has often dispatched monitors who had no specific experience with exotic animals on a set, and was getting too chummy with the industry it watches.

They cited Hallmark Channel’s “2011 Hero Dog Awards,” for which Ms. Ganzert was an executive producer. Some trainers said the association had crossed a line by supplying a dog that was not specifically trained for film.

“We turned it into a listening meeting,” Karen Rosa, who oversees the association’s film and television operation, said of the showdown. “For some people, we’ll always be too tough. For others, we’ll never be tough enough.”

Regarding the dog awards, Ms. Ganzert said an executive of the association, without her knowledge, had indeed furnished the production with a personal pet. “It should not have happened,” Ms. Ganzert said in an e-mail, adding, “It won’t happen again.”

The group is entitled to place monitors on any union-covered shoot that uses animals — and is empowered to shut down a production that hurts an animal. As such, monitors can sometimes be in conflict as they weigh the safety of the animals against the demands of a film production schedule.

The group is supported by an annual grant from the Industry Advancement and Cooperative Fund, a nonprofit that receives a small contribution from the entertainment industry that is tied to actors’ earnings, and is jointly overseen by producers and members of the now-merged S.A.G-Aftra actors’ union.

Officials of the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers, S.A.G.-Aftra, and the I.A.C.F. either declined to comment or did not respond to queries about the humane association grant. According to Ms. Ganzert, the film monitoring unit in its last fiscal year, which ended June 30, covered 3,498 shooting days, and issued certifications on 570 productions. That was up from 2,392 shooting days, and just 144 certifications, in the fiscal year that ended in June of 2003.

While certifications nearly quadrupled in the period, said Ms. Ganzert, the industry’s annual grant to the association rose only about $500,000, to about $2.1 million in the current fiscal year — and it has actually fallen from a recent peak of roughly $2.5 million.

At the same time, Ms. Ganzert, who joined the association in 2010 after working with the Pew Charitable Trusts, was imposing new fiscal discipline on the parent organization, which for years had engaged in a calculated program of deficit spending enabled by a bequest of more than $30 million in the last decade.

As she cut expenses by nearly 30 percent, Ms. Ganzert reduced staff, including six monitors in the Hollywood unit.

At the pending meeting, Ms. Ganzert said she instead expected to explain that many union-covered animal shoots were currently left unmonitored for lack of funds, and that about $5.8 million would be needed to oversee them all. (One person who has worked closely with the association, and spoke on condition of anonymity to avoid conflict, estimated that 50 percent of the intense animal action in film is not being covered.)

In late December, meanwhile, a longtime executive with the association’s film unit, Barbara Casey, filed suit against the group and HBO, which produced “Luck.” The suit claims she was dismissed after the group succumbed to what Ms. Casey said was pressure from producers to ignore her complaints about the abuse of horses.

Alan Zuckerman, a lawyer for the association, said in an interview that Ms. Casey had been let go as part of a necessary staff reduction. HBO has said that any claims that it did not treat horses well are “entirely without merit.”

Still, Ms. Casey is described by a former colleague as having been a strong, and sorely missed, advocate for on-set monitors who do not always feel they have the organization’s support in the inevitable face-offs with filmmakers.

That has led to whistle-blower reports, some of them directed to People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals — an activist organization that is officially opposed to the use of animals in entertainment, though it more pragmatically confines its strong objections to the use of wild breeds.

The whistle-blowers, Ms. Ganzert said, were probably an inevitable by-product of her own organization’s downsizing. “We don’t downplay problems,” she said, “we address them quite seriously.”

As for bugs, Tonya Obeso, an association monitor, spent one recent day at Universal Studios, making sure that some performing spiders were treated well on the set of “CSI: Crime Scene Investigation.”

“We had three black widow spiders, and five false widows,” Ms. Obeso said. There were also some frozen pill bugs. But those were purchased dead, she said, to comply with the group’s prohibition against putting animals that might eat each other in the same container.
396 2013-04-15 Grafton Media, Dublin, was chosen as the representative in Ireland for Icom, Rollinsville, Colo., an independent network of advertising and marketing agencies.

Suzanne La Forgia joined Brand Connections, New York, in a new post, senior vice president for sales. She had most recently been senior vice president for advertising sales at Screenvision.

Christian Lemke joined All Terrain, Chicago, in a new post, director for new business development and marketing. He had most recently been director for business development at Intersport, Chicago.

Janell Marshall, group account director at R&R Partners, Las Vegas, was promoted to a new post, vice president for marketing and brand development.

Ministry of Supply, Boston, an e-commerce retailer, named Soldier Design, Cambridge, Mass., as its first branding agency of record. Billings were not disclosed.

Nestlé USA, Glendale, Calif., part of Nestlé, awarded its media planning and buying account, with spending estimated at $750 million, to the GroupM division of WPP, which will handle the assignment from offices in Los Angeles and New York. The account had been handled by Zenith, part of the ZenithOptimedia division of the Publicis Groupe.

Out of Home America Wilkins Media, East Hartford, Conn., acquired and absorbed Outdoor First, Milwaukee. Financial terms were not disclosed.

Publishers Information Bureau, New York, reported that advertising pages in print magazines in the first quarter fell 4.9 percent from the same period a year ago. Large declines in print ad pages hit magazines in categories like women’s lifestyle, newsweeklies and celebrity weeklies. The figures do not include ad pages in digital versions of magazines.

Rosie Applications, Ithaca, N.Y., a software start-up company, was chosen as the first winner of the Market Ready Award by Eric Mower & Associates, Syracuse, as part of Startup Labs Syracuse, a regional business competition introduced by the CenterState Corporation for Economic Opportunity. Rosie Applications — which has created an online platform for grocery shopping that tracks the items that customers buy most and alerts them when it is time to restock — will receive strategic consulting services from Mower, valued at $50,000.

Andy Seibert joined Sullivan, New York, as managing partner of a new division, Imprint. He had most recently been president at the Dow Jones Content Lab, part of the Dow Jones & Company division of News Corporation. Mr. Seibert will continue as chairman of the Custom Content Council.

Sarah Simmons joined the Darien, Conn., office of Alcone, part of the Omnicom Group, in a new post, director for digital and social activation. She had been a social media manager at Nestlé Waters North America, Stamford, Conn., part of Nestlé.

Katelyn Sinon joined C2C Outdoor, New York, as a media planner. She had been a project coordinator at Parsons Brinckerhoff, New York.

Stonyfield Farm, Londonderry, N.H., part of the Dannon Company unit of Groupe Danone, named Empower MediaMarketing, Cincinnati, as its media agency of record. Spending was estimated at $2 million. The assignment had previously been handled by MPG, now the Havas Media division of the Havas Media Group, part of Havas.

Justin Vogt, director for new business development at Connelly Partners, Boston, was promoted to a new post, chief marketing officer.

Amy Jo Wayne, senior vice president for Eastern advertising sales at Crown Media Family Networks, New York, was promoted to a new post, senior vice president for national advertising sales. Crown Media Family Networks, a division of Crown Media Holdings, oversees two cable channels, Hallmark Channel and Hallmark Movie Channel.
397 2013-04-16 Energy Future Holdings, the Texas energy giant that was taken private in 2007 in a record-breaking $45 billion buyout, disclosed Monday a potential bankruptcy plan to its creditors.&#xa;   &#xa;The proposal to restructure about $32 billion in debt...
398 2013-04-16 9:02 p.m. | Updated &#xa;&#xa;   &#xa;Gold prices tumbled 9 percent on Monday, the sharpest drop in 30 years, heightening fears that investors&#x2019; faith in the safe haven has been shattered....
399 2013-04-16 Alcohol consumption is known to increase the risk for breast cancer. But a new study suggests that moderate drinking has little effect on survival after diagnosis, and may reduce deaths from cardiovascular disease.&#xa;   &#xa;Researchers,  writin...
400 2013-04-16 LILLIN--Marion Elizabeth (Brambora), 86, passed suddenly on April 12. Happily married for 59 years to Charles, who preceded her, she leaves her two sons, Daniel and Ethan, and the best grandchildren ever, James, Jack and Haley. Besides her brother...
401 2013-04-16 According to a new study released by NPD Group, the market research firm, Amazon’s share of paid music downloads rose to 22 percent from 15 percent a year earlier....
402 2013-04-16 Use of BlackBerry’s new smartphone, the Z10, spiked sharply after it went on sale in Verizon Wireless stores, according to a new analysis of mobile data....
403 2013-04-16 A judge conditionally approved a settlement between the hedge fund and securities regulators that allows the firm to pay a $602 million fine without admitting guilt....
404 2013-04-16 NBCUniversal, the new Premier League rights holder in English and Spanish in the U.S., will carry across its TV and digital properties all 380 league matches in the 2013-14 season....
405 2013-04-16 Google is recruiting developers to build apps for its Internet-connected glasses, but it is being unusually restrictive as it slowly introduces the new technology to a wary public....
406 2013-04-16 Coors Field employees — and Mets General Manager Sandy Alderson — helped remove snow from the ballpark before a doubleheader scheduled for Tuesday....
407 2013-04-16 The Times's Pam Belluck reports on a new study about the use of music therapy for premature infants.
408 2013-04-16 The season will also include new work from Suzan-Lori Parks, Mike Daisey and Elevator Repair Service....
409 2013-04-16 Philip Norman’s book about the Beatles was disdained by Paul McCartney, but he has given his “tacit approval” to the new biography....
410 2013-04-16 Vietnam must get subways running before a new car culture replaces the country’s iconic motorcycles....
411 2013-04-16 Tara Siegel Bernard of the Your Money team wants to come to your home and help you sort out your financial life. If you think you have a compelling case, nominate yourself in the comments section....
412 2013-04-16 On Tuesday, Microsoft will begin offering a new, more basic cloud computing service that competes directly with Amazon’s similar services. And to make sure it’s taken seriously, Microsoft said it would match Amazon’s prices....
413 2013-04-16 Net income in the first quarter was $632 million as investors put $39.4 billion of new money into BlackRock products, with most of that going into stock-related investments....
414 2013-04-16 Prize money at the French Open will rise for both singles champions and players who lose in some of the early rounds. Roland Garros organizers said that the overall total for the tournament would grow to $28.7 million, from $24.6 million, with the winners receiving $1.96 million compared with $1.64 million in 2012.
415 2013-04-16 AMR, the parent company of American Airlines, filed its formal plans to exit bankruptcy late Monday, bringing its proposed $11 billion merger with the US Airways Group closer to reality.

The reorganization plan, which details some executive compensation and outlines measures for creditors and shareholders, is a necessary step before the two companies can come together to create the world’s largest airline. The plan requires both court and creditor approval.

Under the plan, AMR’s departing chief executive, Thomas W. Horton, would receive a $19.9 million severance package.

Earlier this month in Federal Bankruptcy Court, Judge Sean H. Lane declined to approve the severance proposal, ruling that it was not permitted under federal bankruptcy law. But the judge suggested that the severance proposal be included in AMR’s reorganization plan, making it subject to creditor approval.

Secured creditors would be paid in full, while unsecured creditors would receive shares of preferred stock.
416 2013-04-16 NEW ORLEANS — A federal judge in Mississippi on Monday blocked part of a state law that would have forced the closing of the state’s only abortion clinic.

The ruling is not final, but it did keep the law from going into effect while a decision on its constitutionality is made, keeping Mississippi, at least temporarily, from becoming the first state in the country without an abortion clinic.

The law, passed in the spring of 2012, requires doctors at abortion clinics to have admitting privileges at local hospitals. Lawmakers said at the time that the requirement was intended to protect the health of women, though the governor and several legislators did not disguise their hopes that it would lead to the closing of the state’s lone clinic, the Jackson Women’s Health Organization.

Neither of the two physicians who perform the most abortions at the Jackson clinic has local admitting privileges. The clinic sued, arguing in federal court last summer that the law was a thinly veiled attempt to rid the state of abortion, and thus was unconstitutional.

But Judge Daniel P. Jordan III ruled in United States District Court shortly after the law went into effect in July that the bureaucratic process should be allowed play out, as long as the clinic remained open while it did.

As expected, the physicians at the clinic were not able to meet the law’s requirements, and the State Department of Health had scheduled a hearing for later this week, at which the clinic’s license most likely would have been revoked.
417 2013-04-16 But there he was Sunday afternoon, back in his familiar aisle seat, watching his Indiana Pacers warm up while cheerfully holding court with reporters, as if he had never left. Walsh assessed the Knicks with a mixture of admiration and pride, declaring them a team worthy of the Eastern Conference title.

“I think they are,” he said. Of a possible Heat-Knicks conference finals, Walsh added: “I couldn’t pick it. I couldn’t.”

This is the powerful team that Walsh always envisioned, although it perhaps took a little longer than anyone at the Garden might have anticipated. The Anthony-Stoudemire pairing proved, as Phil Jackson would say, a bit “clumsy.” And the blockbuster deal for Anthony — pursued by Walsh, pushed through by Dolan — cost the Knicks so many valuable pieces that it took two years just to replenish the supporting cast.

The Knicks who will open the playoffs this weekend will, happily, bear little resemblance to the Knicks who were swept by the Celtics two years ago. Only Anthony and Stoudemire remain, and Stoudemire has been reduced to a sad footnote, having played only 29 games because of knee injuries.

These Knicks are built around Anthony, with a cast of playmakers, shooters and defenders who can maximize his strengths and cover for his deficiencies.

Raymond Felton, Jason Kidd and Pablo Prigioni keep the ball moving, and keep the pressure on Anthony to do the same, so the offense does not devolve into mind-numbing isolation play. In J. R. Smith, the Knicks have a secondary scorer who — on his best nights, at least — complements Anthony much better than Stoudemire could. Tyson Chandler protects the rim. Kenyon Martin protects the paint. Chris Copeland and Steve Novak hit the open 3-pointers.

Contrast that group with the woeful cast that surrounded Anthony and Stoudemire in 2011. Chauncey Billups was lost to a knee injury in Game 1, leaving Toney Douglas and Landry Fields as the starting guards. Ronny Turiaf started at center. Shawne Williams averaged an astounding 25 minutes per game. The top reserves were Bill Walker, Roger Mason and Jared Jeffries.

The loss of Billups and an injury to Stoudemire’s back left the Knicks ill-equipped to contend with a Celtics team stocked with All-Stars. Anthony shot often, and poorly — .375 for the series.

Looking back, it is a wonder the Knicks had a chance to win the first two games (losing by a combined 5 points).

With two years to replenish, Walsh’s successor, Glen Grunwald, plumbed the international leagues and N.B.A. retirement homes and built a roster worthy of Anthony’s talent.

“He’s got better players around him now,” Walsh said. “He’s got a lot of veterans, really savvy guys. He’s got a lot of size. I think getting Chandler was a big get, because he’s a perfect guy for this team. I love the way they’re playing, I do.”

The infusion of talent and experience lifted the Knicks to their first Atlantic Division title, and their highest seeding, in 19 years. Timing matters, too. Their ascent has perfectly tracked the Celtics’ decline.

Paul Pierce, 35, and Kevin Garnett, 36, are in their twilight. Ray Allen is gone. Rajon Rondo is rehabilitating from knee surgery. Pierce, Garnett and Jeff Green are the only Celtics from 2011 who will play in this rematch with the Knicks.

Boston has rebuilt, too, adding Jason Terry and Courtney Lee, Avery Bradley and Jordan Crawford. But the Celtics’ frontcourt is thin, their stars are fading and their defense, while formidable, is no longer as fearsome. Currently 41-39, the Celtics will finish with their worst record since Pierce, Garnett and Allen came together in 2007.

But the Celtics remain a sturdy team at home (27-13), and they still project the swagger of a champion. It was only 10 months ago, after all, that they pushed the Miami Heat to a seventh game in the Eastern Conference finals.

“We don’t call ourselves the underdog,” Coach Doc Rivers told reporters Monday. “You guys call us the underdog. We don’t feel any different."

Green confidently told reporters, “We know we can beat this team,” meaning the Knicks. “And we believe we have a great opportunity to win a championship.”

Yet without Rondo, the Celtics seem unlikely to make another deep run this spring, and it is only a matter of time before team officials begin — once again — to contemplate the inevitable breakup of this proud group.

After several near-trades and rumored trades, this may finally be the end of the Celtics as we know them. The Knicks have taken their division title and may soon supplant them as a perennial East power.

But the great teams do not cede their ground easily, nor hand over symbolic torches without first using them to pummel their hopeful successors.
418 2013-04-16 Earlier this month, the main Socialist opposition party took steps in Parliament that, for the first time, formally requested information about the king’s personal finances. The request followed a report in the newspaper El Mundo asserting that Juan Carlos had stashed money in secret Swiss bank accounts he inherited from his father. The royal household said it would look into the allegations before issuing any response.

Last week, a book that makes several embarrassing claims about the personal history of Princess Letizia, the wife of Felipe, was published. It sold out almost immediately. The book was written by David Rocasolano, a cousin of the princess whom she once employed as a lawyer.

The book drew immediate scorn from royal supporters, who said it was inaccurate and amounted to an act of treason. Whatever its accuracy, the publication underlined the breadth and intensity of the criticism being leveled against the royal family.

The wedge that has exposed the family to deep scrutiny is probably the corruption investigation centered on Iñaki Urdangarin, the king’s son-in-law. The matter touched on the king himself last week, when the royal household was confronted with claims that Juan Carlos had personally intervened to secure the appointment of Mr. Urdangarin, a former Olympic handball player, as assistant coach of the national team of Qatar. The palace said that while the king had telephoned Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani of Qatar several times, their conversations were related to a Spanish shipbuilding contract and not to Mr. Urdangarin’s sporting ambitions.

That the news media raised the issue at all was surprising. Calling on influential friends has long been the king’s way of conducting business for the family, according to royal watchers. That pattern is also seen in e-mail messages that have been leaked in the investigation of Mr. Urdangarin, which concerns lucrative contracts he was given by Spanish regional governments to organize sports events.

The judge in the case also recently subpoenaed Mr. Urdangarin’s wife, Princess Cristina — an unprecedented step by Spain’s courts that further tarnished the royal image.

The royals are not the only ones coming under greater scrutiny: almost no political party in Spain has been spared an inquiry. Arguably, the most damaging landed on the doorstep of Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy and his governing Popular Party, which is accused of operating a slush fund. Nearly every institution of power in the country has been touched by corruption and popular disillusionment.

Still, the royal family’s fall from popular grace is probably the most striking example. It seemed to start in earnest last April when the king was forced to make a highly unusual apology after returning from a lavish elephant hunting excursion to Botswana, which came to public attention only because he fell and broke his hip on the trip.

Since then, the king has undergone more surgical procedures, prompting even some supporters of the monarchy to suggest that he abdicate, including the prominent political columnist José Antonio Zarzalejos, a former editor in chief of the conservative newspaper ABC.

“The king is clearly not in perfect health, and has made many errors, so he doesn’t have the capacity to lead that his son does,” said Mr. Zarzalejos, who describes himself as “an absolute monarchist.”

He said that during his tenure as ABC’s editor, he was not subject to formal censorship from the royal household, but voluntarily restrained coverage of the monarchy, as other mainstream publications did.

“The media consented not to publish some things,” Mr. Zarzalejos said. “That wasn’t driven by fear, but instead by respect and gratefulness” for the role the king played in anchoring Spain’s return to democracy after decades of dictatorship under Franco.

A spokesman for the royal household said it was well aware of the fall in popularity of the monarchy and the king himself, but also said the monarchy remained more popular than many other institutions in the country. The spokesman underlined efforts to make the royal household more transparent, including greater disclosure about its financial assets, which would be required under a broader law that Mr. Rajoy’s government is pushing through Parliament.

But Ms. Enríquez, the former television correspondent, said that in today’s Spain, the family may have had little choice: “The royal household itself has come to understand that it could not stay out of such a transparency law without provoking a genuine public clamor.”
419 2013-04-16 French financial disclosure requirements are among the most lax in Europe.

With a bill to be introduced this month, Mr. Hollande intends to make it mandatory for senior government officials and aides, parliamentarians and some local officials to disclose estate holdings, which include real estate, furniture and vehicles, as well as bank and investment accounts. Officials will not, however, be required to make public their current tax filings, which in some cases show significant salaries.

The declarations released Monday evening showed some cabinet members to be near the French median — determined by a state agency in 2010 to be 113,500 euros or about $150,000 — but many were well above. A handful of the officials had chosen to disclose their holdings in advance, some to prove they had nothing to hide, others to reveal their wealth with time to explain.

With the economy stagnant, unemployment high and taxes rising, there were strong concerns about angry reactions among the public.

In the Monday edition of the newspaper Sud-Ouest, Michèle Delaunay, a junior minister and former dermatologist, revealed assets valued at 5.4 million euros (about $7 million), a number she said she feared would be “difficult to understand for the majority of the French.”

Laurent Fabius, who in addition to serving as foreign minister is the grandson of an important early-20th-century art dealer, kept mum about his holdings until Monday evening, when he revealed assets totaling about 6 million euros (about $7.8 million).

Some tried to defuse tensions with self-derision.

“I have a T-shirt from David Beckham, so I think I need to put that in my estate declaration,” Aurélie Filippetti, the culture minister, told France 2 television last week, while insisting that her 71-square-meter Parisian apartment was her sole possession of consequence. (The apartment was valued at 710,000 euros — about $925,000 — in her declaration Monday. She also disclosed about 11,000 euros, or $14,400, in the bank and 314,000 euros, or about $410,000, in debt; the T-shirt was not listed.)

Jean-Luc Mélenchon, a fixture on the far left but not a member of the government, volunteered on his blog that he owned an apartment in Paris (purchased for 346,750 euros, about $453,000), a country house (purchased in 1996 for the equivalent of $120,000), and savings of 150,000 euros, or about $196,000. First, however, he noted: “I measure 1.74 meters tall. I weigh 79 kilos.”

Mr. Mélenchon went on to list his waist measurement and shoe size, and to note that his hair is “natural” and “not dyed.” He is also looking for a larger apartment, he said, and thanked “those who can make me a good offer.”

Mr. Mélenchon and other critics have noted that it seems unlikely the disclosures could have caught Mr. Cahuzac, especially because they were not accompanied by an enforcement mechanism, at least not yet.

If a disclosure is not independently verified, “it’s worth nothing,” said Jean-François Copé, the president the Union for a Popular Movement, the center-right political party that is the primary opposition to Mr. Hollande’s Socialist Party.

Mr. Copé accused Mr. Hollande of diverting attention from more serious matters. “Poor France!” he lamented on French television. “With the acceleration of deficits, the acceleration of unemployment, with the necessity of making important reforms, what is the debate of the day? To know how to make a Richter scale of ministers more or less rich?”

Mr. Copé, who works as a corporate lawyer when he is not serving as party leader, in addition to holding positions as a mayor and a member of Parliament, has said he will not publish an accounting of his assets unless legally obligated.

The disclosure requirements were opposed within Mr. Hollande’s party as well.

“To declare, to verify, to punish, this is transparency,” Claude Bartolone, the Socialist president of the lower house of Parliament, told the newspaper Le Figaro last week. “To render public, this is voyeurism.”
420 2013-04-16 Up to 2.4 million credit and debit cards used by customers at Schnucks grocery stores in four states may have been compromised over a three-month period, the suburban St. Louis supermarket chain said Monday. Many customers have reported fraudulent charges, some in the thousands of dollars. The chain contacted the police and the F.B.I. after learning of the fraud and hired a private investigation firm. It was determined that the breach dated to December.
421 2013-04-16 CAIRO — A court in Kuwait on Monday sentenced a prominent opposition politician to five years in prison for insulting the country’s ruler, a crime that leaders around the Persian Gulf are prosecuting with increasing frequency in an effort to stanch emboldened protest movements, or stop protests before they start.

In the last six months, dissidents in Qatar and Saudi Arabia have been imprisoned on charges that included either insulting or disobeying the countries’ leaders. Bahrain’s cabinet on Sunday was reported to have endorsed a penalty of five years in prison for offending the king. Other countries have passed or are considering steep fines for cybercrimes that include insulting leaders or top officials on social media.

Kuwait, which long had a reputation for some of the region’s most vibrant politics and civic life, has distinguished itself over the last year by prosecuting dozens of people accused of insulting the country’s emir, Sheik Sabah al-Ahmad al-Sabah, according to human rights advocates. On Monday, Musallam el-Barrak, one of Kuwait’s most popular opposition politicians and a former member of Parliament, was sentenced to five years in prison for comments he made during a speech at a political rally in October.

The rally was one of several by antigovernment protesters angered at a proposal by the emir to amend the country’s election law. In a thundering speech, Mr. Barrak repeated a phrase that would become a slogan of the protest movement — “We will not allow you” — and warned the ruler about “practicing autocracy.”

“It was one of the few protests I went to,” said Hamad Al-Judai, a Kuwaiti political activist. “I’m not a fan, but I had to stand up and clap. It was something different. It was a game changer.”

Activists said Mr. Barrak’s speech had broken taboos in Kuwait about publicly chastising the emir. The politician’s arrest soon after was part of a crackdown on dissent by an increasingly nervous government. Human Rights Watch has documented several convictions of activists for online postings on blogs or Twitter, including many under a penal code article that sets a five-year sentence for anyone who publicly “objects to the rights and authorities of the emir or faults him.”
422 2013-04-16 If pregnant women in poor countries were advised to sleep on their sides, many stillbirths might be prevented, a new study suggests.

A graduate student’s summer project, the study is small — it included only 220 women interviewed about their sleep habits just after giving birth in one hospital in Ghana.

But because Ghana has such a high rate of stillbirth, said Louise M. O’Brien, the professor at the University of Michigan’s Sleep Disorders Center who oversaw the project, by Jocelynn Owusu, the conclusion seemed clear: If pregnant women avoid sleeping on their backs, 25 percent of all stillbirths in poor countries might be prevented.

The study, published online last month by The International Journal of Gynecology & Obstetrics, also found that loud snoring — which is worsened by back (supine) sleeping — raised the likelihood that a pregnant woman would get high blood pressure, a condition that may lead to a complication known as pre-eclampsia, which can kill both mother and child if left untreated or not stopped by Caesarean section.

The Ghanaian study echoed one conclusion drawn from larger studies in the United States and New Zealand, Dr. O’Brien said: that apnea in pregnant women raises blood pressure and increases risk to the baby.

The leading theory, she said, is that when a heavily pregnant woman sleeps on her back, the uterus compresses the vena cava, the blood vessel going up the spine that returns blood to the heart. That starves the fetus, leading to smaller babies and more stillbirths. Supine sleeping also closes the airways, leading to oxygen deprivation, which raises blood pressure. Closed airways lead to snoring.
423 2013-04-16 “The take-home point for women is to have that initial conversation with their provider,” she said.

The task force recommendations are being published in draft form and are open for public comment until May 13. An analysis of research on which the recommendations were based was also being published in Annals of Internal Medicine. The advice matches that given by the task force in 2002 (the group re-evaluates many of its subjects once a decade), though the earlier report stopped short of telling doctors to offer to prescribe the drugs. Members of the group said they relied on a wealth of new data that helped confirm and clarify the risks and benefits of the two drugs, and how they measure up against one another.

and raloxifene have been recommended for years for women whose odds of developing breast cancer are higher than average. Both drugs block the effects of , and can lower the risk of the type of breast cancer whose growth is stimulated by the hormone. About 75 percent of breast cancers fall into that category. Tamoxifen is more commonly used to prevent recurrences in women who have already had breast cancer, and raloxifene is most often prescribed to prevent fractures in women with . Tamoxifen can also decrease the risk of fractures.

Doctors may see these drugs as a rare opportunity to lower the risk of , but some women see them as simply trading one risk for another. Many healthy women, even if they are at increased risk, refuse the drugs, asking why they should take pills to lower the odds of a disease they may never get anyway, especially when the drugs can have dangerous or unpleasant side effects.

Besides increasing the risk of blood clots and strokes, the drugs can also cause hot flashes and vaginal problems like dryness and pain that can damage a woman’s sex life. In addition, tamoxifen can lead to and .

In the United States, 232,000 new cases of breast cancer are expected this year, and about 40,000 women will die from the disease.

The group estimated that among 1,000 women with an increased risk of breast cancer, there would be 23.5 cases of invasive breast cancer over five years. If the women took one of the drugs, 7 to 9 cases would be prevented over five years.

But an extra 4 to 7 women per 1,000 taking the drugs would develop blood clots during that time, and there would be 4 extra cases of uterine cancer per 1,000 women taking tamoxifen — an approximate doubling of both of those risks. Women who had surgery to remove the uterus would not have to worry about that type of cancer.

The task force considered a woman likely to benefit from the drugs if her odds of developing breast cancer during the next five years were 3 percent or higher. One common method of estimating the risk uses an online tool that asks a series of questions about the patient’s health and family history. It calculates her risk, and compares it to the average for women of that age.

At age 40 the average woman has a 0.6 percent risk of developing breast cancer over the next five years; at age 50, 1.3 percent; at age 60, 1.8 percent; at age 70, 2.2 percent. Plugging risk factors into the calculator, like mothers or sisters with breast cancer, or a personal history of breast biopsies, makes the risk go up.

But experts warn that although these estimates can be useful in predicting the risk for large populations, they do not work very well for individuals.

The report from the task force states: “Most women identified as ‘high risk’ will not develop breast cancer, and the majority of breast cancer cases will arise in women who are not identified as having increased risk.” The group also noted that the type of risk calculator generally used is not recommended for women with mutations in BRCA genes, which greatly increase the risk of breast cancer.

Dr. Heidi Nelson, a research professor at Health and Science University in , Oregon, led a team that analyzed several large controlled studies. They found that the drugs could reduce the incidence of invasive cancer by 30 percent to 68 percent, compared with placebos. A new finding is that tamoxifen had a greater protective effect than raloxifene. But it was more likely to cause blood clots. Women over 50 were more likely to develop blood clots from the drugs, or uterine cancer while taking tamoxifen.

Dr. Nelson noted that some studies found women would be more willing to take the drugs if they could prevent breast cancer entirely, rather than just lowering the risk, or if the drugs had no side effects.

One thing that might help doctors and patients, she said, is to keep in mind that the adverse effects were more common in older women. In addition, she said, younger women who had had biopsies showing a condition called atypical hyperplasia did seem to be at added risk and might be among the best candidates for taking the drugs. She said the data suggested that a five-year course of treatment could have protective effects that would continue even when the drugs were stopped.
424 2013-04-16 Then, if after a background check you are conditionally approved, you choose a customs center for the fingerprinting and personal interview. The agency has enrollment centers at major international airports, at a few urban locations, and at its offices on southern and northern borders. Global Entry kiosks for returning international travelers are open at more than 30 big airports in the United States and at airports in Canada and Ireland that have United States Customs preclearance lanes.

As word spreads among international business travelers about the advantages of Global Entry, “We’re seeing applications in record-breaking numbers,” said John Wagner, the agency’s acting deputy assistant commissioner for field operations. “We were doing about 15,000 applications a month for Global Entry, but the last couple of months we’ve done 50,000.”

Officials in the United States and their counterparts in other countries are working to develop international standards for so-called trusted-traveler security programs like Global Entry.

“We’ve reached agreements with a lot of different countries on reciprocal arrangements where they’ll be able to conduct the vetting and qualify their citizens for Global Entry, and they’ll take the U.S. citizen who has Global Entry and allow them to apply for the program they have to enter their country,” Mr. Wagner said. “For instance, in the Netherlands, Korea, Germany, the U.K., we’re in different phases of doing this.”

The programs are all based on the concept of risk management, rather than the unattainable goal of total risk elimination. The idea is to develop standard criteria so the programs can work better with each other. They include Global Entry for international airport arrivals, as well as land-crossing programs like Sentri on the Mexican border (which is also open to approved Mexican citizens), and Nexus, a joint entry program between the United States and Canada.

They also include PreCheck, a program of the Transportation Security Administration that speeds screening at select domestic airports for passengers designated as trusted travelers.

The T.S.A. is working to expand eligibility for PreCheck beyond high-volume travelers chosen by airlines. The agency’s administrator, John S. Pistole, told me he wanted to develop a domestic program that he called “Global Entry Lite,” partly using Global Entry criteria, to increase PreCheck eligibility.

Right now, most of the new trusted traveler programs are finding their footing while officials in the United States, and in countries with like-minded approaches to risk management and international cooperation in security, work on standards.

PreCheck and similar initiatives in the United States “must be expanded,” said Sharon L. Pinkerton, the senior vice president for legislative and regulatory policy at Airlines for America, the domestic airlines trade group.

“We need to enlarge the group of people who are included in those programs,” she said.

Airlines like PreCheck because of its potential to greatly reduce delays and traveler discontent at airport security checkpoints.

Testifying last week before the House Subcommittee on Transportation Security, Ms. Pinkerton said there was a need to “consolidate trusted-traveler programs into one recognizable branded program, and increase efforts to recruit eligible passengers.”

Like Global Entry, those efforts are a high priority. In the United States, where about 1.5 million citizens have Global Entry clearance, about 7,000 to 12,000 returning international travelers swipe their cards each day at the airport kiosks. On Fridays, that represents “about four and a half percent of all of our arriving air travelers,” Mr. Wagner said.

“Five years from now,” he said, “we want that to be up in the 10 to 15 percent, or maybe 20 percent range.”
425 2013-04-16 Re “Getting Enough Calcium” (Personal Health, April 9): An otherwise excellent article missed a few key points concerning coronary disease risk. Dr. Mark J. Bolland and his colleagues used a highly selective subset of the Women’s Health Initiative data to support their conclusion of increased heart risk due to calcium supplements. The Fred Hutchinson Center, the official data manager for W.H.I., concluded there is no such risk. Dr. Bolland had suggested that calcification of coronary arteries was due to a “bolus of calcium” entering the blood from a supplement. Numerous studies show there is no such bolus; at most, serum calcium rises by 2 to 4 percent — about the same as after drinking a glass of milk. And elevated blood calcium is not the cause of calcification in kidney disease, which is caused by very high serum phosphorus concentrations.

The writer is a professor of medicine at Creighton University.
426 2013-04-16 “We are signaling to the world that Alaska is back,” Gov. Sean R. Parnell said in a statement, “ready to compete and ready to supply more energy once again.”

Some energy experts caution, however, that it remains uncertain whether the tax change can lift investment and production since offshore exploration still faces regulatory hurdles and efforts to revive aging oil fields on the North Slope will be expensive.

The Alaskan Department of Revenue has projected that the legislation will lower oil taxes by at least $3.5 billion over the next five years, although changes in oil prices and production rates could push that figure up or down.

Most Democrats in the Legislature voted against the tax change, arguing that it would force the government to cut more than $860 million to balance the budget in 2014, when the tax change will take effect. The tax rate had produced a windfall for the state in recent years, because oil prices were high. While other states were struggling with tax shortfalls, Alaska was able to put away $17 billion in a rainy-day fund.

But oil companies argued that the system was not sustainable. In recent testimony before the Alaska Senate Finance Committee, Dan Seckers, Exxon Mobil’s Anchorage-based tax counsel, said that the current tax structure “creates a major disincentive to invest in the high-risk, high-cost opportunities available in Alaska.”

Mr. Seckers noted that even as the industry invested more than $1 billion a year in Alaska’s fields, production had declined annually by more than 6 percent in recent years. He warned that “absent that continued investment, the annual production decline would likely be in the range of 12 to 15 percent annually.”

The decline in oil production poses a serious problem for the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System, by reducing the velocity that oil flows through the pipeline and allowing water to gather in the system. Oil executives have warned that the water could lead to more corrosion, ruptures and oil spills on the tundra.

Future exploration in Alaska faced a serious setback last week when ConocoPhillips announced that it was suspending plans to drill in Alaskan Arctic waters in 2014 because of uncertainties over federal regulatory and permitting standards.

That decision came after Shell Oil’s decision to put off drilling this summer in Chukchi and Beaufort Seas in Alaska after it was forced to remove its two drilling rigs from the area. The rigs were sent to Asia for repairs after a series of ship groundings, weather delays and environmental and safety violations during last summer’s drilling operations.

Oil company geologists say they believe the Chukchi and Beaufort Seas may become the country’s next great oil field, with billions of barrels of reserves, but exploration and production will be costly.

Shell has already spent more than $4.5 billion on its efforts, without completing a well.
427 2013-04-16 The troika issued a joint statement saying that Greece was on course to curb its huge debt burden, which stood at 160 percent of gross domestic product at the end of last year.

“Fiscal performance is on track to meet the program targets, and the government is committed to fully implement all agreed fiscal measures for 2013 to 2014 that are not yet in place,” the troika said, adding that the release of a loan installment of 2.8 billion euros that had been due in March “could be agreed soon by the euro area member states.”

Poul M. Thomsen, the I.M.F. envoy to Athens, said in a conference organized by The Economist that the 2.8 billion euros, as well as an additional 7.2 billion euros for the recapitalization of Greek banks, could be released as early as next week

The troika said that an agreement had been reached on streamlining the Greek civil service and emphasized the importance of recapitalizing Greek banks without delay.

It added that Greece would probably return to growth next year.

Mr. Stournaras was even more upbeat, saying Greece aimed to achieve a primary surplus this year, which would allow it to seek more debt relief, according to an agreement with creditors.

The issue that caused negotiations to stall in mid-March was the overhaul of the civil service, a contentious topic that has tested the cohesion of Greece’s fragile coalition government.

The two sides finally agreed over the weekend that 15,000 civil servants would be dismissed by the end of next year, including 4,000 this year, according to reports in the Greek news media. The departures are to include employees close to retirement and an estimated 2,000 who have been accused of disciplinary offenses.

In his address, Mr. Samaras said the 15,000 layoffs in the state sector would be replaced by new recruits as part of “a qualitative upgrade of the civil service.”

“The same number of new young people will be recruited in their place,” he said.

Mr. Thomsen of the I.M.F. had said earlier that there would be new hires in the civil service, without specifying how many or in which areas, though the troika is believed to be eager to see the bolstering of tax collection services.

The plan for the civil service overhaul prompted vehement reactions from the government’s political rivals, with Alexis Tsipras, the head of Syriza, the main leftist opposition party, calling it “a human sacrifice” that would merely swell the ranks of the unemployed, who now make up 27 percent of the population.

Others have said they suspect the hiring pledge is a way to start laying people off without strong protests.

Antonis Manitakis, the administrative reform minister who has been assigned the task of overseeing the public sector overhaul, said on Monday that the Greek civil service, which had just under 800,000 employees in 2010 when the country signed the first of its two foreign bailouts, was expected to shrink by a quarter by 2015, with 180,000 departures. These departures would include layoffs but would chiefly be early retirements, Mr. Manitakis said, without offering a breakdown of the figures.

As Mr. Samaras confirmed in his speech, foreign inspectors also accepted Greek demands to reduce by 15 percent a property tax that was introduced as an emergency measure in 2011 but has been extended.

The two sides were also said to have agreed on allowing Greeks who owe taxes and social security debts to pay them off in up to 48 monthly installments.

Mr. Thomsen said that widespread tax evasion “remains a huge problem,” though he added that Greece had “indeed come a long way.”

“The fiscal adjustment has been exceptional by any standard,” he said.
428 2013-04-16 Over all, the number of acres devoted this year to opium poppy cultivation is expected to top the figure in 2008, when poppy plantings reached a peak of 388,000 acres, Mr. Lemahieu said. After 2008, eradication efforts, as well as a cash incentive program for provinces that eradicated all opium poppy crops, helped reduce cultivation drastically through 2010.

This year three provinces — Balkh, Faryab and Takhar in the north and west — are in danger of losing their poppy-free status, according to the United Nations report. They are among 16 provinces that had been declared poppy-free; such provinces receive $1 million awards from the American Embassy, paid directly to the governor’s office.

In February, the State Department announced that it was handing out $18.2 million in Good Performers Initiative Awards for reducing poppy cultivation in Afghanistan. A spokesman for the American Embassy emphasized that the awards were meant to be incentives for provinces to remain poppy-free.

Opium production has become particularly high in Helmand Province in the south, the country’s major opium-producing area, and in Kandahar Province. In both places, the surge of American troops helped to beat back Taliban influence, but as those troops returned home last year, cultivation increased sharply. More than 70 percent of opium production now takes place in three provinces where the surge occurred.

“This country is on its way to becoming the world’s first true narco-state,” said one international law enforcement official, who did not want to be quoted criticizing the Afghan government. “The opium trade is a much bigger part of the economy already than narcotics ever were in Bolivia or Colombia.”

But Mirwais Yasini, a former head of counternarcotics for the Afghan government and now a prominent member of Parliament, said, “I wouldn’t go that far.”

“But if it goes on like this in the future, I am worried about that happening,” he said.

Mr. Yasini said eradication efforts had been countered by insecurity, compounded by corruption at local, provincial and national levels. “I don’t see anything tangible that has been done,” he said. “There is no meaningful crop substitution and no effective enforcement.”

The United Nations has estimated in the past that opium trafficking makes up 15 percent of Afghanistan’s gross domestic product, a figure that is expected to rise as international military and development spending declines with the NATO withdrawal at the end of 2014.

The mining sector, the other big hope of economic self-sufficiency for Afghanistan, is still moribund as the Afghan Parliament continues to bicker over a mining law. A lack of security and legal clarity has also prevented the large-scale exploitation of mineral resources.

The increase in opium poppy cultivation is attributed mainly to historically high prices for opium, coupled with insecurity. Prices began rising in 2010 when a poppy blight severely reduced crop yields, but they have remained high since. Farmers earn as much as $203 a kilogram for harvested opium, compared with only 43 cents a kilogram for wheat or $1.25 for rice, according to the report.

Mr. Lemahieu praised the efforts of the Afghan Ministry of Counternarcotics, but said international donors had greatly underfinanced critical programs to combat trafficking, with only $300,000 of a requested $11 million pledged this year.
429 2013-04-17 SAN FRANCISCO &#x2014; The allure of the iPhone was not its brushed metal or shiny touch screen, but the apps that turned it into anything from a flute to a flashlight. Now, Google hopes that apps will do the same thing for Glass, its Internet-con...
430 2013-04-17 Philip Norman , a prolific biographer whose&#xA0; &#x201C;Shout! The Beatles in Their Generation&#x201D; is considered by many to be among the most absorbing and comprehensive biographies of the group, and whose  &#x201C;John Lennon: The Life&#x20...
431 2013-04-17 When the  sixth season of &#x201C;Mad Men&#x201D;  opened last week on AMC (see video below), it was December 1967 in New York City, and the fictional Henry Francis had landed a post as a top-level aide in the very real Mayor John V. Lindsay&#x201...
432 2013-04-17 LILLIN--Marion Elizabeth (Brambora), 86, passed suddenly on April 12. Happily married for 59 years to Charles, who preceded her, she leaves her two sons, Daniel and Ethan, and the best grandchildren ever, James, Jack and Haley. Besides her brother...
433 2013-04-17 Stu Ockman sets his bar high. Really, really high....
434 2013-04-17 The Costa Rican federation has wants to play its World Cup qualifier against the United States at Estadio Saprissa in September....
435 2013-04-17 Two gauges of stock values — the cyclically adjusted price-earnings ratio, or Cape, and a gauge called the Q, which was devised by the economist James Tobin — show that stocks today are expensive by historical measures.
436 2013-04-17 Amaryllis Knight opens ALTAI, a new retail store and online platform for her consultancy and furniture studio in Los Angeles....
437 2013-04-17 Starting today, The Daily Dog-Ear will appear weekdays on The 6th Floor, directing you to things we find notable, interesting, surprising, provocative or otherwise dog-ear-able....
438 2013-04-17 What do you do to mitigate the risk?...
439 2013-04-17 The Welsh club Cardiff City on Tuesday clinched promotion to England’s Premier League....
440 2013-04-17 The forgotten story of the Mississippi River Squadron at Vicksburg....
441 2013-04-17 If you missed the tax deadline and can provide a reason, the I.R.S. may waive penalties. But the reason had better be good....
442 2013-04-17 After a five-year restoration, the Louxor, a neo-Egyptian movie palace from the 1920s, is reopening in Paris....
443 2013-04-17 Facing an opening Arctic Ocean, nations opt to mange any new fishing effort cooperatively....
444 2013-04-17 The bank, whose shares are up nearly 40 percent over the past 12 months, reported first-quarter earnings of 20 cents a share, well short of analyst expectations of 23 cents a share....
445 2013-04-17 No matter how you finance your business, it makes sense to think about how you are going to get out before you decide to get in....
446 2013-04-17 Ms. Hou’s lawyer, Gerald B. Lefcourt, said his client had no knowledge of or involvement in any conspiracy. “The evidence will show she’s not guilty,” Mr. Lefcourt said.

He noted that the Federal Bureau of Investigation, using an undercover agent who had posed as a Texas businessman wanting to donate to Mr. Liu, had used Mr. Pan, who goes by Oliver, to try to obtain a meeting with Mr. Liu.

The agent wanted to be in the room with Mr. Liu “alone to see if there was any wrongdoing,” Mr. Lefcourt said.

“It had nothing to do with Jenny Hou,” he continued, “and they thought through Oliver Pan they could get to John Liu.”

Mr. Liu’s lawyer had no comment on Tuesday. Mr. Pan’s lawyers had once listed Mr. Liu as a possible witness in the trial, but omitted his name on a more recent list. One of Mr. Pan’s lawyers, Irwin Rochman, said on Tuesday after the court proceeding that his current intention was not to call Mr. Liu.

Prosecutors have said that Ms. Hou and Mr. Pan conspired to defraud the city of campaign matching funds through a so-called straw-donor scheme. Straw donors are people who make contributions that are improperly reimbursed by others.

In such a scheme, a donor can make a large contribution that exceeds the limit for individuals by having others give smaller amounts and reimbursing them.

Mr. Rochman has long argued that the undercover agent pressured Mr. Pan into recruiting straw donors to raise money for Mr. Liu. In his opening, Mr. Rochman cited the “extensive involvement” of and “inducement by” the government agent in “the creation of Mr. Pan’s conduct.”

The prosecutor, Mr. Jacobs, said that in early 2011, Mr. Pan met the undercover agent, who called himself Richard and claimed that he wanted to open a chain of restaurants in the city.

“But New York can be a tough place to do business,” Mr. Jacobs said, “and so Richard made clear to Pan that Richard was willing to make payments to get access to a local politician who could help him.”

Mr. Jacobs said that Richard agreed to donate $16,000 to the campaign, exceeding the $4,950 individual limit, and that Mr. Pan would then allocate that money among 20 straw donors, who would each contribute $800.

Mr. Jacobs said that half of the straw donors were city residents, which made their contributions eligible for matching funds which would funnel additional money to the campaign.

The openings were delayed slightly after an alternate juror revealed to the judge, Richard J. Sullivan, that she had a son in prison in a drug case. She was replaced with another alternate.
447 2013-04-17 Two other measures are bipartisan, one to crack down on gun trafficking and another to bolster mental health treatment.

The outcome of the votes could determine the bill’s fate. If Republicans prevail and the measure shifts too far in the direction of new gun rights, the Democratic-controlled Senate may end up killing its own bill.

Republicans are lining up behind an amendment that would effectively create a national conceal-carry law, a goal that gun groups have been pressing for years.

“You could actually expand the Second Amendment” with the bill, said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina.

Senate Democrats, trying to simply hold their ranks together behind a background check amendment written by Senators  Manchin and Toomey met for an emotional luncheon on Tuesday. Mr. Manchin gave a tearful, impassioned appeal for his measure as former Representative Gabrielle Giffords of Arizona looked on. Senator Tim Kaine, Democrat of Virginia, retold in detail the story of the professor at Virginia Tech who threw his body in front of a door to save students during the massacre there in 2007.

“It was really dramatic and convincing,” said Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota.

Most legislative battles are fought with one party on offense, the other on defense. On guns, both parties see an opportunity to press their agendas, pursuing opposite goals and battling over the votes of the same conservative Democrats and moderate Republicans. In 1999, after the Columbine High School shootings, the Senate voted to expand federal background checks to purchases at gun shows, only to see a bipartisan coalition in the House vote to loosen existing background check rules. The legislation ultimately died.

The same dynamic could be developing this time. Republicans, increasingly confident that they will be able to sustain a filibuster on expanded background checks, have turned their attention to their own priorities, especially a conceal-and-carry measure being drafted by Senator John Cornyn of Texas.

Under that measure, any state with a conceal-and-carry rule would have to recognize the permit of any other state. Only Illinois and Washington, D.C., prohibit concealed weapons.

But while some state standards are low, other states maintain restrictive rules on concealed weapons and grant local law enforcement officials latitude to deny such permits, as they do in New York City, said Jonathan Lowy, the director of the legal action project at the Brady Center, a gun control group. The Cornyn amendment would allow a gun owner in Texas to carry his firearm in Times Square. Gun control advocates say the Cornyn measure would foster a race to the bottom, as gun owners in more restrictive states argue that they should not be held to standards that visitors are not held to.

Advocates see no difference between that rule and regulations that make each state recognize driver’s licenses from all other states, and it will almost certainly be backed by a number of Democrats. In 2009, a similar measure received 58 votes, including those of 20 Democrats, 13 of whom are still in the Senate. That was two votes short of the 60 needed for passage.

Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, supported it then, and Mr. Manchin said he would support it now.

Mr. Reid did not rule out voting “yes” again, but he added, “I think we’ve all learned a lot in recent years, about first graders mowed down, people watching a movie being victims of an attack, a courthouse in Las Vegas.”

Republicans were also readying their own background check amendments as alternatives to the Manchin-Toomey provision, which would extend such checks to firearms bought at gun shows or on the Internet. If the Manchin-Toomey version is defeated, the gun measure on the floor would be left with a more expansive background check provision with even less support, and the overall gun bill would have an even steeper climb to passage.
448 2013-04-17 Documents were seized by the authorities during the search; Haslam said he did not know specifically which ones. He added that although he had not been subpoenaed, some members of the company’s sales staff had been. He also said that he planned to be in Cleveland on Thursday and Friday to prepare for the draft and apologized because “the last thing we ever want to do is put any blemish on Cleveland or the Browns.”

In a statement given to reporters Tuesday in the form of a Q. and A., the company acknowledged that multiple search warrants were served Monday. The statement also said the investigation appeared to center on the application of rebates to what the company said was a small number of trucking company customers. The company statement said that, to their knowledge, no company executives were targets. And it seemed to raise the question of whether the raid could be politically motivated; Haslam’s brother Bill, the former president of the company, is the governor of Tennessee.

“That’s not for us to say,” the statement said, in reply to its own question.

Pilot Flying J owns more than 600 travel centers throughout the country and employs more than 25,000 people. Forbes magazine called it one of the country’s largest privately held companies, with $29 billion in sales annually. The Haslam family, according to Forbes, owns 59 percent of Pilot, with Jimmy Haslam owning 35 percent of that share. The magazine lists Jimmy Haslam’s net worth at $1.8 billion.

Haslam, whose father, Jim, played football at Tennessee, bought a minority stake in the Steelers in 2008. In the summer, he became aware that Lerner was looking to sell the team, and little more than a month later, Haslam bought it. The N.F.L. looks closely, and with independent advisers, into the finances of potential owners. If the source of the owner’s wealth is a family business, the league looks at the company finances and its reputation. There is also an extensive background check into the individual, similar to those conducted when hiring a top executive.

This is not the first time that the Haslams’ company has had legal trouble. In 2005, the United States Department of Labor announced an agreement in which the company would pay 110 assistant managers $720,000 in back wages and damages to resolve violations of the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act, according to The News Sentinel. And the company settled price-gouging allegations in three states by paying fines in the wake of Hurricane Ike in 2008.

Haslam, with a commanding speaking style, made a strong first impression in Cleveland, promising that there was no chance he would move the team and proclaiming that he would be involved and transparent. That was a marked departure from the reclusive Lerner, who inherited the team after the death of his father, Al, who purchased the franchise from the N.F.L. in 1998.

Haslam moved quickly to reshape the franchise. Mike Holmgren was out as the chief executive, and Joe Banner was in. After the season, Coach Pat Shurmur and General Manager Tom Heckert were fired. Haslam pursued Chip Kelly, but was rebuffed before Kelly left Oregon for the Philadelphia Eagles. Haslam hired the rookie head coach Rob Chudzinski and General Manager Mike Lombardi.

Haslam spoke to Cleveland-area civic organizations. He was named to the board of directors of the Cleveland Clinic. He and his wife bought a home in the area. But in February, he announced that he would return to Pilot Flying J as the chief executive. John Compton, the former president of PepsiCo who had been hired in September to give Haslam time to focus on the Browns, became a “strategic adviser,” which includes having input on the Browns’ marketing efforts.

“This is about me realizing my first love is running Pilot Flying J and wanting to return to that job,” Haslam told The Knoxville News Sentinel at the time.
449 2013-04-17 “People can get manipulated in these kinds of things,” said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the person is not authorized to discuss the investigation.

Law enforcement officials have not publicly named Mr. Williams as a suspect and have not formally charged him in connection to the murders of the district attorney, Mike McLelland, 63; his wife, Cynthia, 65; and his chief felony prosecutor, Mark E. Hasse, 57. But investigators from local, state and federal agencies have been focusing intensely on Mr. Williams in recent days.

Officials arrived at the storage unit the day after they started a search of Mr. Williams’s home in Kaufman that lasted hours. They also searched the home of his in-laws down the street. After the search, Mr. Williams was booked into the Kaufman County jail early Saturday, on a charge of making a terroristic threat.

The day after the bodies of the McLellands were found at their home on March 30, Mr. Williams sent an anonymous e-mail, implying that unless his demands were met, another attack would occur, according to an affidavit filed by the authorities. The affidavit stated that “unique identifiers” were used to send the e-mail and that during the search of Mr. Williams’s home, investigators learned that he had used those identifiers in sending the e-mail from his personal computer. The authorities believed he had misused county user names and access codes online, according to the search warrant, which was released Tuesday.

Mr. Williams and one of his lawyers, David K. Sergi, had insisted that he had nothing to do with the shootings. In addition, Mr. Sergi said in an interview in the days after the McLellands were killed that the authorities had taken his client’s firearms as a result of his theft case. This week, however, Mr. Sergi did not return phone calls or respond to e-mails seeking comment.

Mr. Williams — a member of Mensa, the high-I.Q. society — was elected justice of the peace in November 2010. He was indicted in June 2011 on charges of stealing county computer equipment, and Mr. Hasse and Mr. McLelland were his courtroom rivals.

The two prosecutors had offered him a plea deal in that case, but Mr. Williams had refused, frustrating Mr. McLelland, according to Judge Bruce Wood. The case went to trial in March 2012. A jury convicted Mr. Williams on burglary and theft charges, and he was removed from the bench and his law license was suspended.

After the shooting of Mr. Hasse, Mr. McLelland believed that investigators should focus on whether Mr. Williams had killed Mr. Hasse or had someone do it, according to Mr. Wood and others whom Mr. McLelland told at the time. Mr. McLelland told Mr. Wood that he was frustrated by the lack of evidence linking Mr. Williams to the shooting.

“Especially after Eric turned down the plea agreement, that is when Mr. McLelland became more convinced that he was not someone you could reasonably deal with,” said Mr. Wood, the county’s top elected official.

Mr. Williams’s lawyers had tried unsuccessfully in 2011 to have Mr. McLelland removed from the case. They claimed in court documents that the security video ultimately used to convict Mr. Williams had been tampered with and that Mr. McLelland had gone after Mr. Williams to settle a political grudge. In 2006, when Mr. McLelland first ran for district attorney, Mr. Williams publicly questioned Mr. McLelland’s character. Mr. McLelland lost that election, but won when he ran again in 2010.
450 2013-04-17 Jeter, who has also been taking batting practice, has not played since March 23 when he batted four times in a minor league spring training game as a designated hitter. After that he had to be shut down because of soreness in the area around the ankle. He was originally hurt in Game 1 of the American League Championship Series on Oct. 13 and had surgery a week later.

There was hope that he might be able to return by May 1, but that seems less likely now.

YOUKILIS’S MIND ON BOSTON Kevin Youkilis, like so many people with friends and family members in Boston on Monday, was making calls and sending text messages to see if everyone he knew was O.K. after he saw the news that two bombs had exploded near the finish of the Boston Marathon.

“We found out yesterday and were just pretty much sick to our stomachs,” said Youkilis, who played and lived in Boston for nine years. “For my family and I, it was supposed to be an off day with kids and it turned into a lot of phone calls and worry.”

PAYING TRIBUTE The Yankees planned a number of tributes for Tuesday night’s game against the Diamondbacks. One was to pay their respects to the victims of Monday’s bombings at the Boston Marathon, and the was to commemorate Jackie Robinson’s breaking the major league color barrier in 1947.

The Yankees held a moment of silence while showing on a commemorative ribbon with the Yankees and Red Sox logos side by side and the words, “New York Stands With Boston. Pray For Boston” on the video screen. They also had a singalong of “Sweet Caroline,” which is played during the eighth inning of Red Sox games at Fenway Park.

“I think it’s important that we recognize that we’re all behind the people in Boston and everyone that was involved,” Joe Girardi said, adding, “We’re behind them and put the baseball teams aside. We want to be there for them.”

The Yankees were also honoring Robinson with pregame ceremonies, and as they have for a number of years, all players on the field were wearing No. 42. They also paid tribute before the game to the former N.F.L. player and broadcaster Pat Summerall, who died Tuesday. PETTITTE SAYS BACK IS GOOD Andy Pettitte, who missed his last scheduled start over the weekend because of back spasms, had a healthy bullpen session and reported no problems with his back. The Yankees will be cautious, though, and Pettitte will not start until Friday.
451 2013-04-17 As part of Tuesday’s decision, the F.D.A. also said it had approved a label for the new version of OxyContin stating that it was less prone to abuse through inhaling or injecting it.

The decision is the first time that the agency has allowed a manufacturer to state that a narcotic drug has tamper-resistant properties, said an agency official, Dr. Douglas C. Throckmorton.

Dr. Throckmorton said the F.D.A. had looked at data from several studies, some of it underwritten by Purdue Pharma, in arriving at its decision. He said that while the data was not perfect, the agency had concluded that it was enough to show that the new version of OxyContin was safer, in its abuse resistance, than the original version.

As a result, the efficacy of that original version — and by extension the efficacy of any generic version of it — no longer outweighed its risks, since the therapeutic value of older and new versions of the drug were the same, he added.

“We recognize that we are looking at new territory,” Dr. Throckmorton said, referring to the standards under which it would allow claims for abuse resistance.

The decision by the F.D.A. comes at a time when the efficacy of strong narcotics like OxyContin for the treatment of long-term pain has come under increasing scrutiny. Citing poor outcomes, some insurers are also seeking to limit how doctors use the drugs.

Along with Purdue Pharma, the manufacturer of another long-acting narcotic painkiller, Endo Pharmaceuticals, has also petitioned the F.D.A. seeking a similar claim of abuse resistance for a newer version of one of its drugs, Opana. If that claim proves successful, generic versions of the original form of Opana would also be barred.

Over the last year, Purdue Pharma and Endo have pushed for federal legislation that would require many opioids to be tamper-resistant, and lobbied in favor of similar state laws.

In Canada, an effort last year by some doctors and local officials to deter sales of generic versions of OxyContin there fell flat. While companies like Purdue Pharma insist the public’s health is their main concern, others note that producers introduced tamper-resistant versions of their products just as the drugs were about to lose patent protection.

In court papers filed in response to a lawsuit filed by Endo, the F.D.A. described the company’s action as a “thinly veiled attempt to maintain its market share and block generic competition.”

At time of introduction in late 2010, the price of the new version of OxyContin was about $6 per 40 milligram tablet, the same then as the price that was not tamper resistant. Since then, the price of the new version has risen to about $6.80 for a tablet of that strength. Opana costs about the same amount for a pill of the same painkilling strength.

When the F.D.A. approved the original formulation of OxyContin in 1995, the agency allowed its maker to claim that the drug’s time-release formulation was “believed to reduce” its potential to be abused. That contention proved disastrously wrong.
452 2013-04-17 Revenue in the first quarter slipped to $12.58 billion, down from $12.91 billion in the first quarter of 2012. That was in line with analysts’ forecast of $12.6 billion.

In after-hours trading, Intel shares were flat. In the regular trading session, the company’s shares added 54 cents a share, or 2.5 percent, to close at $21.92.

In a conference call to discuss the results, Intel executives were more optimistic about the rest of the year.

Stacy J. Smith, the chief financial officer, said the company should return to growth in the second half, with “low single-digit growth” for the year.

An improving economy should help, as well as new products like its Haswell chips, a power-saving processor that supports touch-screen computing on ultrabook computers, which are hybrids of notebooks and tablets.

Haswell chips, Mr. Smith said, will be in products that will begin to ship this quarter.

A year ago, Intel was not positioned to follow demand into higher-growing markets like hybrid and tablet computers, said Paul S. Otellini, the chief executive, who plans to retire in May.

Now it is, he said. “Never before has our ability to compete across the spectrum of computing been greater,” Mr. Otellini said.

Intel’s business of selling high-end chips to power the server computers in data centers is growing. Its data center group reported a 7 percent increase in revenue in the quarter, to $2.6 billion.

But strength elsewhere is not enough to offset Intel’s dependence on the personal computer market.

In 2012, the company’s PC chip division accounted for 64 percent of Intel’s total revenue and 89 percent of its operating income.

Last week, the research firm IDC reported that worldwide personal computer shipments declined by nearly 14 percent in the first quarter of this year, the biggest drop since the research firm began tracking quarterly PC sales in 1994.
453 2013-04-17 The case features a wide cast of characters, including a man described as a Russian gangster accused of trying to rig Winter Olympic skating competitions in and a woman who once organized high-stakes poker games for some of Hollywood’s most famous faces. In all, 34 people were charged on Tuesday with playing a part in what federal prosecutors described as two separate but interconnected criminal groups — one operating overseas and the other in the United States. Together, they are accused of laundering more than $100 million in gambling money.

In addition to charges that Mr. Nahmad helped finance a multimillion-dollar gambling ring in the United States, the art dealer is accused of defrauding an unnamed person by selling him a painting for $300,000 when it was worth only $50,000, according to the indictment.

Mr. Nahmad, the indictment said, also wired money — once for $500,000 and another time for $850,000 — from his father’s bank account in to a bank account in America to help finance the gambling operation.

The Nahmad family’s rise to prominence dates from its roots in Aleppo, , where the family’s patriarch, also named Hillel, was a successful banker in the middle of the last century.

He had three sons, David, Ezra and Giuseppe; Giuseppe died last year in .

David Nahmad, whose son Hillel ran the New York gallery, has been described as a risk-taker in both business and life. In Monte Carlo, he won the World Championship of Backgammon in 1996.

Over the years the family has amassed an estimated 300 Picassos worth $900 million, and about 4,500 other works by artists including and Miró, many secreted in a duty-free warehouse near the airport. It is a treasure that Forbes estimated to be worth over $3 billion. Before this week, Hillel Nahmad’s gallery was a cynosure of refinement and wealth, with masters like and on the walls.

With an entrance at Madison Avenue and 76th Street, the gallery’s connection with the Carlyle, itself synonymous with privilege, added to its prestige. The gallery has been at the Carlyle since at least the late 1990s.

However, even before the F.B.I. raid at 7:30 a.m. on Tuesday, the gallery’s windows were covered with brown paper, which is unusual since the spring art season is just kicking into high gear.

A sign on the door said, “We are closed for renovation, please ring the bell or call.”

A man who answered the phone at that number declined to speak to a reporter.

According to the indictment, Hillel Nahmad was one of the leaders of a “high-stakes illegal gambling business run out of and Los Angeles that catered primarily to multimillionaire and billionaire clients.”

He was expected to surrender to the authorities in Los Angeles on Tuesday. His lawyer could not be immediately reached for comment.

The indictment also named Molly Bloom, who made headlines in 2011 for her role in arranging clandestine games for high-rollers, including Tobey Maguire, , and .

Federal law enforcement officials would not say whether the poker games Ms. Bloom ran in Los Angeles in 2011 came under scrutiny during the course of the investigation. But the charges in the indictment relate to her conduct between 2010 and the present. The indictment did not name any of the high-profile players who investigators said were involved in the poker games held in New York and Los Angeles.

According to the indictment, the organization would enforce payment of gambling debts through coercion. One client surrendered a 50 percent interest in his business, Titan P&H plumbing company in the , to repay a $2 million gambling debt. Some of the money generated by the scheme was also used to buy expensive property, including an apartment at Trump Tower on Fifth Avenue.

One of the defendants, Vadim Trincher, helped run the scheme from the $5 million apartment, according to prosecutors, who said that $75,000 in cash and $2 million in chips from the Bellagio casino in were seized from the apartment.

At the center of the overseas operation detailed in the indictment was Alimzhan Tokhtakhounov, 64, whom prosecutors describe as the leader of a Russian organized-crime gang.

Mr. Tokhtakhounov, according to the indictment, was a “Vory V Zakone,” sometimes known as a Vor or a “thief in law,” the highest level of Russian gangsters.

Between December 2011 and January 2012, Mr. Tokhtakhounov was paid $10 million for his leadership role in the organization, according to the indictment.

Mr. Tokhtakhounov, the indictment said, oversaw the laundering of money generated by a huge sports-betting operation in the former Soviet Union that served Russian oligarchs.

Mr. Tokhtakhounov, who remains at large, was indicted in 2002 on charges that he was part of a scheme to rig the results of the Winter Olympic finals in Salt Lake City in pairs figure skating and ice dancing.

In July 2002, Italian authorities detained Mr. Tokhtakhounov at his villa in at the request of federal prosecutors in New York.

According to a criminal complaint filed in federal court in Manhattan in that case, he was accused of working with an unidentified member of a Russian crime gang and an unidentified Russian skating official to rig the competition. He helped secure a gold medal for in the pairs event in exchange for a victory for the French ice dancing team, according to the complaint.

However, ’s highest court overturned an extradition order, and he was never brought to the United States to stand trial.

In 2008, Mr. Tokhtakhounov, who has been linked with powerful Russian politicians, including some close to President , was interviewed by and denied all the charges against him regarding the Olympics scandal.

“All that’s being written about me is completely untrue,” he said. Still, he seemed to revel in his lavish lifestyle.

“I am not a poor man,” he said. “I am a wealthy man. I work a lot. I work hard.”
454 2013-04-17 Officials said they were still at the start of an inquiry on the attack at the Boston Marathon that killed three people and hurt more than 170, using what were likely kitchen pressure cookers set up to shoot shrapnel....
455 2013-04-18 8:06 p.m. | Updated &#xa;&#xa;   &#xa; Bank of America  reported first-quarter earnings on Wednesday that fell well short of Wall Street&#x2019;s expectations but that were substantially higher than in the period a year earlier....
456 2013-04-18 The price of gold has been falling....
457 2013-04-18 So far this year, banks have issued $33.5 billion in new commercial mortgage-backed securites, one of the structured financial products that stood at the center of the financial crisis. The mortgages within those securities are getting riskier.
458 2013-04-18 The state topped California in yogurt production last year, and at the same time, according to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, showed that “our approach to growing the economy and creating an entrepreneurial government is paying off.”...
459 2013-04-18 We’ve all heard variations on this idea: The difficult we do immediately; the impossible takes a little longer.

At the bridge table, when your task appears to be impossible, try to find a lie of the cards that allows you to succeed.

In the diagramed deal, South is in six spades. West leads a low club and South ruffs East’s jack. How can declarer do the impossible?

The deal occurred during a premier division match in Norway in February. The declarer was Jorn Arild Ringseth, and his play was originally reported by Peter Marstrander and Boye Brogeland in Dagbladet, a major newspaper in Norway. It was sent by Knut Kjaernsrod to the Bulletin of the International Bridge Press Association.

North’s two-diamond opening showed a weak two-bid in either major. Two no-trump was an inquiry, three clubs promising a maximum (a debatable evaluation, given the weak spade suit). Three diamonds asked again, three hearts indicating spades.

If West had led his diamond ace, this deal would never have been seen. But West followed his partner’s lead-directing double of three clubs.
460 2013-04-18 The cast and creative team of the new Broadway revival of "Pippin" showed us how they created their first number, "Magic to Do."
461 2013-04-18 The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has recommended ways to sort out the various credentials used by financial advisers who claim to have expertise in helping older people....
462 2013-04-18 The R.N.C. has come out strongly against Common Core education standards, placing Republicans in conflict with the Business Roundtable....
463 2013-04-18 Race organizers have once again rejected appeals to cancel the Bahrain Grand Prix, an event demonstrators plan to use to highlight continuing repression in the Arabian Gulf kingdom....
464 2013-04-18 Two years after the 16-hour mandate was established for doctors in training, studies on the outcomes are being published, and the results reveal one thing: Maybe we should have thought a little harder about the arithmetic....
465 2013-04-18 The Supreme Court’s conservatives dealt a major blow Wednesday to the ability of American federal courts to hold violators of international human rights accountable. The court declared that a 1789 law called the Alien Tort Statute does not allow foreigners to sue in American courts to seek redress “for violations of the law of nations occurring outside the United States.”

In the case at issue, Kiobel v. Royal Dutch Petroleum, Nigerian citizens alleged that, from 1992 to 1995, multinational oil companies working in Nigeria aided the military dictatorship that tortured and killed protesters who fought the environmental damage caused by the oil operations. These companies did business in the United States. But Chief Justice John Roberts Jr., writing for the majority, said that even where claims of atrocities “touch and concern the territory of the United States, they must do so with sufficient force” to overcome a presumption that the statute does not apply to actions outside this country.

That presumption radically revises and undermines the way the statute has been applied for a generation. It has been limited by the types of human rights abuses it covers — but not by where they take place. The effect is to greatly narrow the statute’s reach.

The court’s four moderate liberals, in an opinion by Justice Stephen Breyer, agreed with the majority that the Kiobel case should not go forward in an American court. The conduct in this case happened abroad, Justice Breyer wrote, and “based solely upon the defendants’ minimal and indirect American presence,” it would be “far-fetched to believe” the case “helps to vindicate a distinct American interest.”

But he persuasively argued against the majority’s evisceration of the Alien Tort Statute. Under the court’s reasoning, it is likely that the 1980 federal appeals court ruling that first used the statute in a significant human rights case would have been thrown out of court. It is likely that many other cases brought by foreign nationals against foreign individuals, and against corporations since 1997, would have been thrown out, too.

In 2004, the Supreme Court ruled that the law allowed suits in federal courts by foreigners against the most abhorrent foreign violators of universally accepted rights, like torturers and perpetrators of genocide, even when the abuses took place in other countries, as long as the defendants had sufficient contact with the United States.

Congress has not tried to limit that interpretation of the statute.

Justice Breyer said suits under the law should be allowed when “the defendant’s conduct substantially and adversely affects an important American national interest, and that includes a distinct interest in preventing the United States from becoming a safe harbor (free of civil as well as criminal liability) for a torturer or other common enemy of mankind.”
466 2013-04-18 The Mississippi River, so low for much of the winter that barge traffic was nearly halted, could reach up to 10 feet above flood stage by the middle of next week in parts of Iowa, Illinois and Missouri, National Weather Service hydrologists said Wednesday. The weather service is predicting three to four inches of rain — and perhaps more — from Kansas City, Mo., to Chicago by Friday morning, the result of an unsettled weather pattern that prompted widespread tornado and thunderstorm watches. Soil is already saturated from an unusually wet early spring, raising concerns along the Mississippi from the Quad Cities, along the Iowa-Illinois border, south to St. Louis. “North of St. Louis, we’re looking at the kind of flooding we haven’t seen since 2008,” said Mark Fuchs, a National Weather Service hydrologist. Floods in the spring of 2008 were particularly troublesome in Iowa, where hundreds of homes were damaged in Cedar Rapids, Iowa City and other towns.
467 2013-04-18 WASHINGTON (Reuters) — Easy monetary policy in the United States has led to looser standards for corporate borrowing as company debt continues to grow, posing a risk to financial stability, the International Monetary Fund warned on Wednesday.

Over all, finances around the world have improved in the last six months, and there were few clear signs of asset bubbles, the monetary fund said in its annual Global Financial Stability Report. But it also said that governments must remain vigilant and ensure they are continuing structural and banking improvements, or risk sinking into a chronic financial crisis.

In addition to companies, pension funds and insurance companies may also be taking on more risk than they should as they search for higher-yielding assets to fill a funding gap, which for pension funds stayed at 28 percent at the end of last year.

All of this is happening while the United States is still only one-third of the way through the current credit cycle, the Washington-based global lender said. Usually, looser borrowing standards emerge only in the later parts of the cycle, as happened in 2007, the I.M.F. said.

“In the United States, corporate debt underwriting standards are weakening rapidly,” José Viñals, the director of the I.M.F.’s monetary and capital markets department, said in a briefing on the report.
468 2013-04-18 A judge in New York has dismissed an N.B.A. security official’s discrimination and assault lawsuit against Geno Auriemma, the University of Connecticut women’s basketball coach; the N.B.A.; and USA Basketball, saying the offenses charged did not happen in New York. Kelley Hardwick said she was removed from the security detail of the United States women’s team at the London Olympics last year because she spurned sexual advances from Auriemma on a 2009 national team trip to Russia. Auriemma denies the allegations.

Hardwick appealed the ruling to the New York Supreme Court’s Appellate Division.
469 2013-04-18 Nascar suspended four members of the defending Sprint Cup champion Brad Keselowski’s team and three from his teammate Joey Logano’s for seven races each, saying they used parts without approval before last weekend’s race in Texas. The series also stripped the drivers and their owners of 25 points each, meaning Keselowski will drop to fourth from second in the standings and Logano will drop to 14th from ninth.
470 2013-04-18 EBay continues its turnaround, from troubled online auction site to a forward-looking, mobile-oriented e-commerce company.

In first quarter financial results released on Wednesday, revenue swelled to $3.7 billion, up 14 percent from a year earlier. EBay said net income was $677 million, or 51 cents a share, a 19 percent increase from a year earlier.

“We had a strong first quarter, with accelerating user growth across both Marketplaces and PayPal,” said John Donahoe, eBay’s president and chief executive, in a news release. “Technology is creating a commerce revolution, and we are in the forefront with strong mobile leadership and a focus on helping retailers and brands engage consumers anytime, anywhere.”

But the results, as well as second-quarter forecasts, fell short of Wall Street’s expectations, causing the stock to fall 1.6 percent in after-hours trading. The company forecast a second-quarter profit of 61 to 63 cents a share and revenue of $3.8 billion to $3.9 billion. Analysts were looking for earnings of 66 cents a share on revenue of $3.95 billion, according to Thomson Reuters.

EBay has successfully transformed itself from a site known as the virtual equivalent of a yard sale or dusty thrift shop to a sophisticated online marketplace, now competing with Amazon and other online retailers. It said that fixed-price merchandise, as opposed to its original auctioned merchandise, is now 68 percent of all goods sold. Most recently, the company has been experimenting with same-day delivery and courier services that let customers order through their mobile devices for delivery hours later. The company reported that its core retailing business, called Marketplaces, still shows strong growth, adding close to 4 million users during the period, bringing the total to 116 million, a lift of 13 percent.
471 2013-04-18 BEIJING — A young Tibetan mother has killed herself by self-immolation to protest Chinese rule, according to reports by Radio Free Asia and Voice of America, two news organizations financed by the United States government.

The woman, Chugtso, 20, set fire to herself about 3 p.m. on Tuesday near the Jonang Monastery in Dzamthang County of Sichuan Province, according to a Radio Free Asia report that quoted a Tibetan living in exile in India who is in contact with people in the area.

Ms. Chugtso, who used only one name, is survived by her husband and 3-year-old child. Her body was taken to the monastery, where monks said prayers, then to her home.

At least 116 Tibetans in Chinese-ruled regions have set fire to themselves since 2009 in acts of protest. Chinese officials have said the Tibetans are psychologically unbalanced or have been incited by the Dalai Lama, the exiled spiritual leader of Tibet, or his allies.
472 2013-04-18 The stock market fell in a broad sell-off on Wednesday, led by a sharp drop in shares of Apple on worries about slowing demand for its products. A decline in Bank of America, after it reported weaker-than-expected financial results, pulled down the financial sector.

Apple slid 5.5 percent to $402.80 after falling below $400 for the first time since December 2011. A main supplier, the chip maker Cirrus Logic, gave a disappointing revenue forecast, fueling worries about weakening demand for the iPhone and iPad.

The Dow Jones industrial average fell 138.19 points, or 0.94 percent, to close at 14,618.59. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index dropped 22.56 points, or 1.43 percent, to 1,552.01. The Nasdaq composite index declined 59.96 points, or 1.84 percent, to 3,204.67.

The CBOE volatility index, a measure of investor anxiety, jumped 18.3 percent to 16.51. It remains well below the 20 mark, however, suggesting market volatility is still relatively subdued.

Wednesday’s losses were the week’s second big sell-off, adding to views the market may be starting the pullback that analysts have been speculating about for months. The market has had strong gains since the start of year, yet on Monday, the S.& P. 500 posted its worst day since Nov. 7, falling 2.3 percent, after a sharp drop in gold prices.
473 2013-04-18 That tension emerged in the video clip, taken as Mr. Putin was meeting with governors and top ministers, among others, on housing issues.

He criticizes their progress in fulfilling his campaign promises, like increasing the stock of emergency housing and spots in public kindergartens. He calls the quality of their work “negligible” and, without offering specifics, instructs them to improve their performance or pack their bags.

“If we do not, it will be necessary to come out and admit it — either I am not working effectively, or all of you work badly and you have to go,” Mr. Putin says. “I call your attention to the fact that, today, I am inclined toward the second option! I think this is clear. So that no one has any illusions.”

Mr. Medvedev was greeted with anemic applause at the Duma, Parliament’s lower house, and began his presentation by warning that Russia faces “serious risks” because of a global economic slowdown and a drop in commodity prices. He faced particular grilling over his education minister, Dmitry Livanov.

Gennadi A. Zyuganov, the Communist Party leader, said that conditions in Russia were deteriorating and that a new cabinet should be put in place. “We must warn society that should the current social and economic course be continued, Russia will face a collapse,” he said.

Even Vladimir Vasiliev, a member of Mr. Medvedev’s party, United Russia, said he hoped that ministers would take a cue from members of Parliament who have stepped down voluntarily recently amid corruption cases.

“We hope that in the government there will be people who will resign, understanding that they are not equal to the position they occupy,” he said.

Mr. Medvedev defended Mr. Livanov, noting that “a minister who is liked by everyone simply is not performing his professional duties.”

“I’ll just say one thing: a minister is not a ruble, something that pleases everyone,” he said. “Moreover, there are a whole lot of positions in the government that could be considered ‘firing squad’ positions. Among them are the responsibilities of the education and health ministers.”

After Mr. Medvedev finished speaking, one lawmaker, Nikolai Levichev, of the party A Just Russia, warned that if Russia entered a recession in the fall, “we will simply be obliged to raise the question of confidence in the government.”
474 2013-04-18 These are some tips for conducting business in foreign currencies, based on the experiences of small-business owners like Mr. Tennant.

EXTEND THE QUOTE PERIOD Many American businesses pay their overseas vendors in the local currency. But not all business owners have the time or expertise to figure out how to avoid being hit by a sudden change in the exchange rate.

Craig T. Batten is chief financial officer of S4 Inc. in Toano, Va., which imports and sells $8 million in holiday lights a year. Four years ago, the company was so small that he could not find a bank to help him, so Mr. Batten worked alone, getting quotes from Chinese manufacturers that were paid in dollars. He would make a deposit of up to 50 percent of the order when he placed it, with the balance due when the product was shipped. Quotes would be valid for up to 90 days. After that, the vendor would deliver a new quote, which was time-consuming and could force S4 to update its prices.

Now working with RBS Citizens, a commercial arm of Citizens Bank, Mr. Batten said he got quotes six months in advance and could pay in the local currency, the renminbi.

“The U.S. dollar has been losing value compared with the renminbi,” Mr. Batten said. “The two places I deal with will hold prices for a longer time and quote better prices because they’re not hedging on the loss of the U.S. dollar.”

The bank saves him money, he said, because he has been able to develop relationships with their representatives, who look out for him. “They often reduce the wire transfer fees when dealing with funds outside of U.S. dollars,” he said.

WORK WITH A TRADER Adriana Kahane, founder and chief executive of Dream Foods International in Santa Monica, Calif., depends on a currency trading company to help her business import organic citrus juices from Sicily. Dream Foods tallies about $6 million a year in sales.

When she started in 1998, Ms. Kahane relied on a big bank to buy currency to carry out transactions. She would place an order 90 days or more in advance, committing to buy, say, 75,000 euros on a certain date to pay a supplier. When the date came, even if she did not need the product at that moment, she was obligated to buy the currency. That became a problem during the recession, she said, when “we were a little bit squeezed on our margins because of the high cost of the euro.”

Five years ago Ms. Kahane started using Associated Foreign Exchange, or AFEX, an international payment and foreign exchange company in Los Angeles. She said the company had been willing to give her extra days before she was committed to buying euros. The AFEX representative calls her regularly when he sees the euro’s value dropping and knows she may want to make a purchase. She said that had helped Dream Foods save as much as $100,000 in a year.

“The smaller foreign exchange shops are more competitive and I find their service level is much higher,” she said. “If they see a swing in the rates, they are going to give me a call.”

LOCK IN THE PRICE Mr. Tennant of Geographic Expeditions urges business owners to use forward contracts that lock in an agreed-upon price for a foreign currency. This strategy works especially well for companies like wine importers that publish prices months in advance.

Mr. Tennant works with Wells Fargo and AFEX to carry out the transactions. Traders buy the currency — for instance, New Zealand dollars — to pay for hotel rooms or tours that will be used months later. The exchange rate is set and the price cannot budge, even if the currency rates change.

“You’ve locked in the price of the foreign currency that you’re going to need to buy on payment date,” Mr. Tennant said. “If you can lock in a price because you’re using the appropriate financial instrument, it’s good for the consumer. Hedging is a wonderful thing. It takes uncertainty off the table.”

Some volatile currencies, however, cannot be hedged, he said, including the Moroccan dirham, the Mongolian tugrik and the Tajik somoni. It also is more challenging to deal with countries like China that have capital controls in place to regulate the flow of foreign currency in and out of the economy.

Geographic Expeditions tries to have at least two suppliers in any one destination so that when one supplier raises prices, as the Indian vendor did, the company can find an alternative. When American dollars must be used, Mr. Tennant makes sure those contracts stipulate that the prices cannot change.

Generally, he said, “If we can’t hedge, we eat the risk.”

STICK WITH DOLLARS Some small businesses find that using foreign currency is too great a challenge. When Ice Air, a Mount Vernon, N.Y., company, buys air-conditioning units made in China for resale, Hugh Koh, the company’s chief financial officer, insists on paying in dollars.

For three years, he said, the company worked with a major bank to buy forward contracts and conduct business in euros. With the exchange rate fluctuations and bank fees, Ice Air broke even on the currency transactions.

“It was a lot of work,” Mr. Koh said. “With foreign exchange, there’s an element of gambling in there. There is always the risk.”

By dealing only in dollars, he said, the company avoids market fluctuations. But there are drawbacks. Some overseas vendors refuse to accept dollars. Those that do may try to protect themselves by charging a fee, adding as much as 10 percent to the cost of their products or services.

But Mr. Koh is happy to pay a fee that brings peace of mind. “For planning purposes it’s a finite number,” he said. “When we look at costs for this year, we know what the costs will be.”
475 2013-04-18 WASHINGTON — Federal agents arrested a man on Monday suspected of sending letters feared contaminated by the poison ricin to President Obama and a Mississippi senator, according to two officials with knowledge of the case. The suspect was identified as Paul Kevin Curtis of Tupelo, Miss.

The arrest, two days after the letters were intercepted in mail-sorting facilities for the White House and the Capitol, was based on information collected “very early on” about who had sent the letters, said one of the officials. The letters contained a postmark from Memphis but no return address, Senate officials said.

Tupelo is the hometown of Senator Roger Wicker, the Republican senator to whom one of the letters was addressed. The letters were signed: “I am KC, and I approve this message.”

The speedy arrests in the case may calm nerves in the nation’s twitchy capital, where it had begun to feel like the fraught weeks after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, when anthrax-laced letters were mailed to media organizations and two Democratic senators, killing five people and making 17 others sick.

Late Wednesday morning, on Capitol Hill, the Hart Senate Office Building was shut down, with no one allowed to enter, but the building was not evacuated. Capitol Police officers were yelling at staff members in the hallways to get back in their offices.
476 2013-04-18 “All the relevant conduct took place outside the United States,” he wrote.

He added that even some minimal contact with the United States would not be sufficient to overcome the presumption. “Even where the claims touch and concern the territory of the United States, they must do so with sufficient force to displace the presumption against extraterritorial application.”

He gave an example: “Corporations are often present in many countries, and it would reach too far to say mere corporate presence suffices.”

The case involved a joint subsidiary of the Royal Dutch Petroleum Company, based in the Netherlands, and the Shell Transport and Trading Company, based in England. The subsidiary, incorporated in Nigeria, was accused of aiding and abetting in atrocities by Nigerian military and police forces against Ogoni villagers.

After being granted asylum in the United States, several Nigerians sued the parent companies under the 1789 law, the Alien Tort Statute, which is brief and cryptic. It allows federal courts to hear “any civil action by an alien for a tort only, committed in violation of the law of nations or a treaty of the United States.”

The law was largely ignored until the 1980s, when federal courts started to apply it in international human rights cases. A 2004 Supreme Court decision, Sosa v. Álvarez-Machain, left the door open to some claims under the law, as long as they involved violations of international norms with “definite content and acceptance among civilized nations.”

Justices Antonin Scalia, Anthony M. Kennedy, Clarence Thomas and Samuel A. Alito Jr. joined the majority opinion. Justice Kennedy wrote a concurrence saying that the majority had been “careful to leave open a number of significant questions.”

In a second concurrence, Justice Alito, joined by Justice Thomas, proposed an answer to one of those unanswered questions, drawing on the Sosa decision. He said that lawsuits under the law should be barred unless there was domestic conduct that violated international norms that were both specific and widely accepted.

The Supreme Court heard two arguments in the case before rendering a decision. In February 2012, it considered whether corporations may be sued under the law. Six days later, it set the case down for reargument on the broader question decided Wednesday.

Chief Justice Roberts said that United States law did not govern the world and that allowing some kinds of cases to be heard in American courts would interfere with the nation’s foreign policy. He said Canada, Germany, Switzerland and the United Kingdom had all objected to some claims under the 1789 law.

The hardest question, Chief Justice Roberts acknowledged, is whether American courts may hear cases based on piracy on the high seas, a problem that was familiar to the drafters of the 1789 law. “Pirates,” the chief justice concluded, “may be a category unto themselves.”

In a concurrence, Justice Stephen G. Breyer centered his analysis on that last question. “Who are today’s pirates?” he asked, before answering his own question. “Certainly today’s pirates include torturers and perpetrators of genocide.”

Justice Breyer said he “would not invoke the presumption against extraterritoriality.” Rather, he said, suits under the law should be allowed in one of three settings: when the conduct at issue took place in the United States; when the defendant is an American citizen; or when “the defendant’s conduct substantially and adversely affects an important American national interest, and that includes a distinct interest in preventing the United States from becoming a safe harbor (free of civil as well as criminal liability) for a torturer or other common enemy of mankind.”

Justice Breyer said that that standard had not been satisfied in the case decided Wednesday, Kiobel v. Royal Dutch Petroleum Co., No. 10-1491. He based his conclusion on several factors: that the defendants were citizens of other nations; that they had only a minimal presence in the United States; that the conduct at issue took place abroad; and that the defendants were not accused of committing abuses directly but only of helping other foreigners to do so.
477 2013-04-18 The graduate student who was killed was one of the hundreds of thousands of Chinese who have come to the United States to be educated at its universities....
478 2013-04-19 Excel, PowerPoint, Word and Outlook have played more than just cameo roles in the dark side of capitalism, the author contends....
479 2013-04-19 Credit Suisse, the operator of the nation’s largest dark pool, has told the major industry data providers that it will no longer provide information on how much trading happens in its pool, CrossFinder....
480 2013-04-19 The computer maker’s stock slides nearly 4 percent to close below the $13.65-a-share offer made by the company’s founder and Silver Lake Partners to take the company private....
481 2013-04-19 Honda reported a sticky brake-shift interlock, and Nissan a faulty brake caliper casting in recalls affecting more than 220,000 vehicles....
482 2013-04-19 Why should any new rules favor money market funds that invest in government debt over those buying corporate debt?...
483 2013-04-19 Shares of Apple traded for more than $700 last year, but they have tumbled and analysts are trying to understand why, Nick Wingfield and Nathaniel Popper write in The New York Times....
484 2013-04-19 CARACAS, Venezuela — Election officials on Thursday agreed to a request by Venezuela’s losing presidential candidate to conduct an expanded audit of the results from the recent election won by a protégé of Hugo Chávez.

The head of the National Electoral Council, Tibisay Lucena, who made the announcement, said that the audit would take a month to complete.

The Chávez protégé, Nicolás Maduro, who was declared the winner of Sunday’s election by a margin of less than 2 percentage points, is scheduled to be sworn in on Friday despite the decision to carry out the audit.

The electoral council’s decision was an unusual concession to the losing candidate, Henrique Capriles Radonski, who has refused to recognize the results of the election and called for a recount.

The majority of the five-member electoral council are viewed as supporters of the government, and many here had considered a decision favorable to Mr. Capriles unlikely.

Mr. Maduro had agreed to an expanded audit on the night of the election, but the next day government officials reversed course and said they opposed it.
485 2013-04-19 A Corinth man charged with mailing letters containing ricin to national leaders believed that he had uncovered a conspiracy to sell body parts on the black market, and he maintains that he is innocent, his lawyer said Thursday. The suspect, Paul Kevin Curtis, 45, an Elvis impersonator, is accused of threatening President Obama, Senator Roger Wicker and a Mississippi judge. The letters said: “Maybe I have your attention now even if that means someone must die. This must stop.” Mr. Wicker said Thursday that Mr. Curtis once worked as Elvis at a party where the senator and his wife were among the hosts. Mr. Wicker called him “quite entertaining: but said that “my impression is that since that time he’s had mental issues and perhaps is not as stable as he was back then.”
486 2013-04-19 Banks have won over investors by taking steps to make this generation of structured products safer than the last one. But with demand for these products on the rise, credit ratings agencies and regulators are warning that the additional protections are already dwindling, allowing some of the old excesses to creep back into the market.

“The players in the business are generally the same as they were before,” said Tad Philipp, a commercial real estate analyst at Moody’s rating agency. “Because it’s the old players, they know how to push the boundaries.”

Whatever the risks, the basic principle behind the products remains the same. A pool of loans — whether home mortgages or corporate loans — are mixed together into bonds, ranked by varying levels of risk. If the underlying loans go bad, the bonds at the bottom of the pecking order suffer losses first, followed by the next lowest, and so on up the chain. It is only after enormous losses that the top-ranked AAA bonds lose money.

Bundling many loans into one investment, a process known as securitization, provides an efficient way to channel money to borrowers who might not otherwise get funds. But securitization proved dangerous during the last real estate boom because it encouraged banks to give loans to people with weak credit and then pass on those risky loans to the buyers of the structured products. When the real estate market dropped in value, it inflicted unexpected losses on those investors and led to chaos in the financial system. Many investors complained that the complexity of the instruments obscured their risks.

The Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul is forcing banks to take extra steps in the process of bundling loans, but it does not change the basic approach.

For a glimpse into this process, both before and after the crisis, consider the mortgage taken out by the Hard Rock Hotel in downtown Chicago. In mid-2007, just as the real estate market was coming unhinged, the hotel — like many ordinary home buyers — took out a risky mortgage on which it paid only interest. JPMorgan Chase mixed this loan and others into a commercial mortgage-backed security. Credit ratings agencies gave a large portion of the resulting bonds a AAA rating.

After the recession, the hotel struggled to keep up with its payments, edging it toward foreclosure. It was one of several bad loans that caused losses for holders of the old bonds. But late last year, with the market for structured finance coming back to life, the hotel’s owners were able to refinance the old mortgage. In February, that refinanced loan turned up in a new bond, which again received a AAA rating.

By many measures, loan pools like the one that contains the hotel’s mortgage are nowhere near as risky as they were in 2007. Before the crisis, 57 percent of the outstanding money in commercial mortgage-backed securities was in interest-only loans like the Hard Rock Hotel’s previous loan. Though it fell sharply after the crisis, the percentage of money in interest-only loans is again rising swiftly. It has reached 34 percent this year, up from 11 percent two years ago, according to Trepp.

The structured product that has been the fastest to revive is the one that encountered the least trouble in 2008: collateralized loan obligations. These involve pools of loans given to companies with junk ratings.

In the first quarter of this year, banks issued about $26 billion in new collateralized loan obligations — more than in the same period in 2007, according to S&P Capital IQ. Demand for the loan pools has been so brisk that banks have been able to loosen underwriting standards on the underlying loans and bonds. This provoked the Federal Reserve to release guidance last month warning that “prudent underwriting practices have deteriorated.”

Not all markets have revived as quickly. The slowest bonds to return are those linked to home mortgages, the structured products that caused the most problems during the crisis. Many AAA mortgage bonds suffered significant losses when large numbers of subprime mortgages went sour.

But even here there are signs of life. Last month, JPMorgan became the first major American bank to issue a bond backed by residential mortgages. Other banks have been talking about doing the same.

These first steps have been greeted with concern. While a large portion of the JPMorgan deal was given the highest rating by Fitch and Kroll Bond Ratings, Moody’s issued a report arguing that investors were not given enough protection. Fitch issued a similar note when a Swiss bank, Credit Suisse, released its first new mortgage security last fall.

Brian Reynolds, the chief market strategist at Rosenblatt Securities, said that when the quality of bonds starts sliding, it rarely improves until a crisis.

“It’s not risky immediately, but it puts us on the path to additional systemic risk,” Mr. Reynolds said.

Still, the revival is welcome news for Wall Street banks and structured finance specialists. In 2008 and 2009, some banks eliminated their entire teams, assuming they would not be needed again. But last year, revenue from securitizations was up 68 percent, according to the data company Coalition.

“Literally we thought the business was gone,” said Jeanne E. Branthover, a Wall Street recruiter. “The surprise is that this is a skill that banks are looking for again.”
487 2013-04-19 Woodson made it clear Jason Kidd would stay on the bench, because he still needs a backup for Felton.

“We’re definitely going to miss Pablo,” Felton said. “Hopefully we get him back for the second game.”

Woodson has paired Felton with either Prigioni or Kidd throughout this season. The strategy improved ball movement and spacing on the court, and has given Woodson more shooters on the perimeter to surround Anthony.

According to John Schuhmann, who does statistical analysis for NBA.com., the Prigioni-Felton combination was by far the Knicks’ best backcourt this season. When they were on the court together (266 minutes), the Knicks had their highest offensive rating (points per 100 possessions), 118.2. The Knicks’ defensive rating with Felton and Prigioni was 105. The net rating of those two statistics was the team’s biggest in Schuhmann’s point guard analysis.

Woodson paired Prigioni with Felton on March 18 against the Utah Jazz. The Knicks went on to win 13 consecutive games.

The Knicks are a better team when Woodson pairs Felton with a second playmaker next to him. When Felton is the only point guard on the court (871 minutes), the Knicks have the same offensive and defensive rating (107.9).

“If Raymond is the solo point guard starting out, he has to defend that spot,” Woodson said. “He has to apply pressure just like Pablo does. We have to extend our defense. Nothing changes. We just have to duplicate what Pablo does until he gets back.”

Woodson emphasized that Felton was not the only player responsible for ensuring the Knicks have good ball movement. Anthony, Chandler, Shumpert and every other Knick will have to do his part.

“Everybody touches the ball one time or another in our system,” Woodson said. “You got a shot, then take the shot. If you don’t have the shot, you have to sacrifice the ball for ball movement and body movement.”

The playoff game Saturday will be Felton’s first at Madison Square Garden. He expects that the Celtics will be physical and that Woodson will allow him to be aggressive on offense.

Mike Woodson was named Eastern Conference coach of the month. The Knicks were 8-2, tying Miami for most wins in the league. Five were against playoff teams: Atlanta (twice), Indiana, Miami and Milwaukee. Woodson is just the fourth Knicks coach to win the award and the first since Pat Riley in March 1994. ... Marcus Camby (plantar fasciitis) participated in practice, but Woodson said he was unsure whether he would play against the Celtics.
488 2013-04-19 WASHINGTON — The Senate energy committee formally approved the nomination of Ernest J. Moniz to be energy secretary, the committee announced on Thursday.

The 21-to-1 vote is an indication that Mr. Moniz, who served as an undersecretary in the Energy Department in the Clinton administration, will have no trouble being confirmed by the full Senate. Some opponents had complained that an energy initiative he leads at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology is financed heavily by the oil industry and other conventional energy industries. Mr. Moniz is a physicist and strong advocate of natural gas and nuclear power as cleaner alternatives to coal.

The dissenter was Senator Tim Scott, Republican of South Carolina, who had tried during Mr. Moniz’s confirmation hearing to pin him down on a major project at a nuclear facility near Aiken, S.C., to convert plutonium from retired nuclear weapons into fuel for power reactors. The project has turned out to be far more difficult than first envisioned, and may be canceled. Mr. Scott has been urging its completion.

Mr. Moniz would not say whether the project would be finished. About $6 billion has been spent on the plant. Mr. Moniz was involved in negotiating the treaty with Russia on destruction of plutonium, and the project in South Carolina is supposed to uphold the American end of that deal.
489 2013-04-19 Pakistan’s High Court conditionally allowed former Prime Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf to run in general elections scheduled for May 11. This month, election officials disqualified Mr. Ashraf from running for Parliament, citing several allegations of corruption and mismanagement against him. Mr. Ashraf appealed, and the court found in his favor, but his path is not yet clear. The court also ordered the government’s anticorruption body to complete investigations against Mr. Ashraf by Monday.
490 2013-04-19 But that was just one more bit of downbeat news in what has been a downbeat few months. All told, $290 billion has been wiped off Apple’s value since September. It might seem difficult to believe, but Apple now ranks among the biggest losers in the stock market over the last seven months, right next to the J. C. Penney Company, that sick man of American department stores. The last time Apple was trading this low was in November 2011. Steve Jobs had just died and everyone wondered how Apple would carry on without its visionary leader.

Stock price aside, Apple is bigger and, by some measures, stronger today that it was then. It sells more iPhones and iPads than ever. It is expanding its global reach. And it is making so much money — analysts expect the company to report another solid quarter next week — that it has been having trouble figuring out what to do with all of its cash. Speculation is rife that Apple might pass some cash to shareholders in the form of an increased stock dividend.

On one level, the Apple story is a common one on Wall Street: what goes up also goes down. As Apple’s stock price soared in recent years, some pointed out that the company’s sales couldn’t keep growing — and its share price couldn’t keep rising — at that rapid pace forever. In hindsight, Apple’s surge above $700 strikes some as irrational, as does its precipitous plunge back below $400.

“Overexuberance on the upside leads to herd behavior and panic during the correction,” said Avanidhar Subrahmanyam, an professor of behavioral finance at U.C.L.A. “People just panic and the stress hormone kicks in.”

One issue is that Apple is a favorite stock among individual investors. The investment firm SigFig estimated last fall that 17 percent of all retail investors owned Apple stock, four times the number that owns the average stock in the Dow Jones industrial average.

Trading by retail investors can be amplified by hedge funds, who see everyday investors piling in and push in the opposite direction by shorting the stock, betting it will decline. The so-called short interest in Apple reached a peak last November, but hasn’t gone down much since then, according to data from Nasdaq.

Aswath Damodaran, professor of finance at New York University, said the enthusiasm surrounding Apple last year prompted him to sell his own holdings in the company when the stock was around $610.

“I was terrified by the kinds of investors coming into Apple’s stock,” said Mr. Damodaran. “Not only were they coming in with unrealistic expectations, they were at war with each other.”

Recently, Mr. Damodaran began buying shares again, convinced that the fears had gone too far.

“Right now, Apple is being priced as though it has no future growth,” he said.

Indeed, Apple looks cheap by the most popular way of gauging a stock’s value, the amount of profit it generates for each outstanding share. Investors are willing to pay about $15 for a dollar of profit of the average Standard & Poor’s 500 company. But for Apple, they will pay less than $9.

At its current price, investors are betting that Apple will grow more slowly than the average American company. And they are ignoring the enormous pile of cash that Apple has built up, which it could hand out to shareholders tomorrow if it wanted.

The cash, and Apple’s apparent inability to find a use for it, has taken some of the blame for the stock’s recent performance.

Toni Sacconaghi, an analyst at Bernstein Research, said that if Apple developed a clear plan to use some of its cash to pay dividends to shareholders it would help the company’s shares, perhaps lifting them 10 percent or more. But that will not return Apple shares to their glory days. He said the bigger problem bearish investors saw with Apple’s shares was more straightforward: growth is stalling.

“That’s the story,” he said.

During the fiscal second quarter that Apple will report next Tuesday, Mr. Sacconaghi predicts that Apple will post an 18 percent decline in net income, as less lucrative products eat into its profit margins. In 2012 during that same period, Apple almost doubled its net income from the same period in 2011.

Still, this is Apple — the company that produces some of the most popular products in the world. While Mr. Jobs is no longer around, almost all the people who worked with him are still there.

One thing is sure: the shift in sentiment has been a big change for Apple bulls like Gene Munster, an analyst at Piper Jaffray. He still sees host of opportunities for growth ahead. He said that, for instance, Apple could play a big role in mobile payments.

But it’s no longer easy being an Apple bull.

“It’s like getting a beating every day coming into work,” Mr. Munster said. “Investors are so negative, they want to take it out on somebody. I feel like I end up being that guy.”
491 2013-04-19 WASHINGTON — Responding to sharp criticism from Republicans for his work on housing discrimination and voting rights at the Justice Department, Thomas E. Perez, President Obama’s choice to head the Labor Department, on Thursday defended his record and said that if confirmed, his focus would be on tackling the nation’s high unemployment rate.

Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, the ranking Republican on the labor committee, cited a scathing report from other Republican lawmakers as he questioned Mr. Perez about a deal he helped broker with officials in St. Paul for the city to drop a housing discrimination lawsuit in exchange for the Justice Department’s declining to join two whistle-blower complaints against the city.

“That seems to me to be an extraordinary amount of wheeling and dealing outside the normal responsibilities of the assistant attorney general for civil rights,” Mr. Alexander said.

He later added that he expected Mr. Perez to respond in full to a subpoena from Representative Darrell Issa of California, chairman of the House Oversight Committee, for personal e-mails believed to contain more information about the deal.

Mr. Perez countered that not only had he sought the guidance of ethics experts on the agreement, his had not been the final word.
492 2013-04-19 Several ethics proposals appear destined for legislatively induced comas. They won’t completely die, but they won’t become law, either. Lawmakers are setting them aside in a nice bundle that will be studied after the session is over.

One proposal, for instance, is to update the financial categories on the personal financial disclosures required of officeholders. They were set a long time ago, when $25,000 was a more unusual number than it is now. That’s the top value lawmakers report on assets; for instance, an officeholder with $500,000 in a company’s stock simply reports ownership of more than $25,000 worth. The numbers worked better in the 1970s.

A proposal to put those reports online appears destined for study hall, too, although lawmakers might require electronically filed reports for the first time, without necessarily making them available online. Creating an investigative division at the Texas Ethics Commission is also on ice.

That “interim study” is a pat on the head for anyone who wants legislators to tighten the rules, or to enforce the ones now in place. It allows lawmakers to set an issue aside without openly voting against it.

In the meantime, they’re working on a periodic tuneup of the Ethics Commission — a perfect legislative vehicle for changing other ethics laws. For instance, one provision would perform triage on complaints to the commission, separating picky and administrative issues from serious violations, and allowing the commission’s staff to resolve some issues without going to the full panel. That’s important; the commission is regularly bogged down by the little stuff.

Some big ideas are dying, however, and lawmakers are wiping away the fingerprints. Who wants to vote against an ethics proposal? Better to defuse the situation, relegating it to the time between legislative sessions for study. If voters really want change, the issue will float back to the surface sometime in the future.

The Ethics Commission bill actually resulted from an interim study. The Sunset Advisory Commission periodically looks at agencies up for legislative review, and it considered but did not recommend many of the issues lawmakers plan to study, again, when this legislative session is over. The interim study would be due in December 2014, on the eve of the next regular legislative session and after another election cycle under the current rules and regulations.

The interim study dodge — and its relative, the “pilot program” — is not confined to ethics legislation. It is, however, a predictable outcome. Tom Smith, better known as Smitty, lobbies for Public Citizen in Texas and has been in the middle of ethics debates for decades. Over the years, he generally has argued for more disclosure, easier access to the disclosures that are made, and better enforcement of serious infractions by candidates and by people in office.

It is difficult to change ethics law. It often happens only in the midst of scandals that periodically force legislators to clean up their business. And when it doesn’t happen, it fails in a familiar way.

Smitty went to the records, and counted eight studies on ethics over the last 25 years.

Lawmakers are about to start number nine.
493 2013-04-19 It would be hard to design a law more stacked against the regulators than the 1976 Toxic Substances Control Act, which is supposed to ensure the safety of thousands of chemicals used in household products and manufacturing. It is long past time for Congress to reform the law so that it provides genuine protection against harmful chemicals in products like shampoos and detergents.

Tens of thousands of inadequately tested chemicals were allowed to remain in use after the law was enacted. For the most part, the law requires the government to prove that a chemical is unsafe before it can be removed or kept off the market instead of requiring manufacturers to prove that their chemicals are safe before they can be sold and used. And it makes it hard for the Environmental Protection Agency to pry the information it needs to assess risk from the manufacturers or to require them to conduct tests.

Companies have to alert the E.P.A. before introducing new chemicals, but they don’t have to provide any safety data. It is up to the agency to find relevant scientific information elsewhere or use inexact computer modeling to estimate risk. The agency can only ask the company for data or require testing if it first proves there is a potential risk, which is hard to do without the company’s data.

The failure of the law can be read in these dismal statistics: since 1976, from a universe of chemicals that now numbers roughly 85,000, the agency has issued regulations to control only five existing chemicals.

Senators Frank Lautenberg, a Democrat of New Jersey, and Kirsten Gillibrand, a Democrat of New York, recently introduced a bill — the Safe Chemicals Act of 2013 — that would modernize and reform the law, mostly by requiring manufacturers to prove that a chemical is safe before it can be sold. It has more than two dozen Democratic co-sponsors but is opposed by the chemical industry and many Republicans, who argue that the E.P.A. already has enough power to regulate chemicals and simply needs to exercise it more effectively. The American Academy of Pediatrics, a far better guide to what’s needed to protect children, endorsed the bill on Wednesday.
494 2013-04-19 In this age of information, math errors can lead to disaster. ’s Mars Orbiter crashed because engineers forgot to convert to metric measurements; ’s “London Whale” venture went bad in part because modelers divided by a sum instead of an average. So, did an coding error destroy the economies of the Western world?

The story so far: At the beginning of 2010, two Harvard economists, and , circulated a paper, “Growth in a Time of Debt,” that purported to identify a critical “threshold,” a tipping point, for government indebtedness. Once debt exceeds 90 percent of gross domestic product, they claimed, economic growth drops off sharply.

Ms. Reinhart and Mr. Rogoff had credibility thanks to a widely admired earlier book on the history of financial crises, and their timing was impeccable. The paper came out just after went into crisis and played right into the desire of many officials to “pivot” from stimulus to austerity. As a result, the paper instantly became famous; it was, and is, surely the most influential economic analysis of recent years.

In fact, Reinhart-Rogoff quickly achieved almost sacred status among self-proclaimed guardians of fiscal responsibility; their tipping-point claim was treated not as a disputed hypothesis but as unquestioned fact. For example, a editorial earlier this year warned against any relaxation on the deficit front, because we are “dangerously near the 90 percent mark that economists regard as a threat to sustainable economic growth.” Notice the phrasing: “economists,” not “some economists,” let alone “some economists, vigorously disputed by other economists with equally good credentials,” which was the reality.

For the truth is that Reinhart-Rogoff faced substantial criticism from the start, and the controversy grew over time. As soon as the paper was released, many economists pointed out that a negative correlation between debt and economic performance need not mean that high debt causes low growth. It could just as easily be the other way around, with poor economic performance leading to high debt. Indeed, that’s obviously the case for , which went deep into debt only after its growth collapsed in the early 1990s.

Over time, another problem emerged: Other researchers, using seemingly comparable data on debt and growth, couldn’t replicate the Reinhart-Rogoff results. They typically found some correlation between high debt and slow growth — but nothing that looked like a tipping point at 90 percent or, indeed, any particular level of debt.
495 2013-04-19 DAKAR, Senegal — The head of Guinea-Bissau’s armed forces, Gen. Antonio Injai, has been indicted by a federal grand jury in New York on cocaine and weapons-trafficking charges, the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan said Thursday, part of an ambitious American operation targeting some of the most powerful figures in a country long considered a major haven for drug smuggling.

According to the indictment, Mr. Injai told informants for the United States Drug Enforcement Administration, who were posing as rebels with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, that he was willing to store tons of cocaine and ship it to the United States. He is also accused of agreeing to buy weapons for the FARC, which is designated a terrorist organization by the United States.

Two weeks ago, an ally of his, the former head of Bissau’s Navy, was indicted on similar drug charges after being arrested in a sting off the coast of West Africa.

For years, Guinea-Bissau has been considered one of the world’s premier examples of a narco-state, one where the government hierarchy is deeply implicated in the drug trade. But the cases bring those longstanding assertions quite a step further, offering what prosecutors describe as clear evidence of official involvement in trafficking, and aiming to haul senior figures into court.

Unlike the former naval boss, who was lured into a fake meeting on the high seas to be arrested, Mr. Injai remains free in Bissau, the dilapidated capital of the small Western African nation, where he has helped lead two coups d'état in the last three years and is widely considered the real force behind the impoverished country’s nominal government.
496 2013-04-19 LAS VEGAS – Lionsgate’s public face just got some major plastic surgery.

Every decade or so, movie studios update their animated logo — Universal’s revolving globe, for example, and Fox’s searchlights. The tweaks are typically very minor. But Lionsgate, looking to underscore its growth, on Thursday unveiled a radically different one. The studio even discarded its gates.

“It would have been really easy to say, ‘O.K., we want to freshen our logo. Let’s go buy a new gate,'” said Tim Palen, Lionsgate’s chief marketing officer. “But it’s hard to make a gate exciting. We decided to be bold.”

The old logo started with grinding metal gears, then moved the viewer through a keyhole in a gate, which swung open to reveal the studio’s name floating in clouds. The new one starts with a big bang-type moment in space, reveals the constellation Leo — the lion — and ends with the Lionsgate name breaking through clouds during an eclipse of the sun.

“The point is that we are now part of a bigger and more exciting universe,” said Mr. Palen, who started working on the update last year when Liongate acquired Summit Entertainment. Mr. Palen likened the new logo to a “unifying mascot” for the combined companies, which are home to the “Hunger Games” and “Twilight” franchises.

Lionsgate finished 2012 as Hollywood’s fifth-largest studio based on ticket sales in North America, topping both 20th Century Fox and Paramount. The new logo, produced by the graphic design firm Devastudios, will first play in theaters with “The Big Wedding,” a comedy that arrives on April 26.
497 2013-04-19 Credit: Gretchen Ertl for The New York Times
498 2013-04-19 There were moments during Wednesday evening’s New York Philharmonic performance of Charles Ives’s “Symphony No. 4” at Avery Fisher Hall when I felt like a spectator at a Quidditch match. It’s true that neither the Philharmonic players nor their conductor, Alan Gilbert, were riding on broomsticks. But with 14 airborne players, four balls, six goals, and a winged target, Quidditch, the sport central to the Harry Potter novels, is a lot like Ives’s music. Things come hurtling at you from unexpected places. Players are chasing a zigzagging target. The laws of physics don’t seem to apply.

Conducting Ives’s symphony, with its vast forces often subdivided into groups playing in different meters and keys, requires courage. In fact, the Philharmonic brought in a second conductor, Case Scaglione, to lead certain sections in some of the work’s more schizophrenic moments, a strategy common in performances of this piece. Vivien Schweitzer, writing in The New York Times, recently compared it to “multiple traffic wardens standing at a particularly dangerous intersection.”

Yet even under these daunting circumstances, Mr. Gilbert appeared relaxed, bringing discipline to the work’s wilder moments and a poetic introspection to its quiet passages. In the beginning of the Allegretto, there was a delicacy to the dissonances as if they were gently rubbed between the fingertips; in the fourth movement, the sounds of five violins and two harps playing from a balcony descended like a mist over the right side of the stage. In the fugue of the third movement, the strings built up a rich sound that combined Mahlerian lushness with an outdoorsy freshness that was entirely American.

The first half of the program offered more American fare, beginning with the world premiere of Christopher Rouse’s gothic “Prospero’s Rooms” followed by Bernstein’s Apollonian “Serenade,” with Joshua Bell as solo violinist. Mr. Rouse, the Philharmonic’s current composer in residence, drew inspiration from Edgar Allan Poe’s short story “The Masque of the Red Death,” in which a group of aristocrats try to escape a raging epidemic by shutting themselves in a castle where they hold a masked ball, realizing only too late that among the guests is the Red Death, who finally holds “illimitable dominion over all.”

In Mr. Rouse’s atmospheric work, the story is told with dreamlike speed — 10 minutes from the cadaverous contrabassoon line that opens over quiet string rumblings to the final terrifying crash. Poe’s ball takes place in a sequence of monochrome rooms and the music had a strong sense of motion and spaces being entered and left behind, as well as colors that sometimes seemed eerily disembodied from the instruments that produced them.

Bernstein’s violin concerto-like “Serenade” also benefited from a finely calibrated color palette, testament to both the composer’s skill and Mr. Gilbert’s attentive conducting. Mr. Bell played with his customary elegance and pure sound, content to weave in and out of the orchestral texture in the opening movement before allowing his lines to soar in the singing melody of the Adagio. Bernstein’s sense of humor flashed through in the final movement where the violin executes a little nonchalant dance over a left-right accompaniment in the timpani.
499 2013-04-19 I.B.M. is the largest supplier of information technology — hardware, software and services — to corporations and government agencies worldwide, and its results are watched as a guide to broader trends in business technology spending.

The once-hot China market, Mr. Loughridge said, grew by “a disappointing 1 percent.” The recent change in Chinese leadership, he said, may have brought an investment pause as national and local plans are fine-tuned.

But he said parts of the hardware business are facing a longer transition. The mainframe division, he said, is healthy. The troubles seem to be in units that sell industry-standard data center computers, typically powered by Intel chips, and larger data center computers that use I.B.M.’s Power chips.

To cut costs, he said, I.B.M. planned to take most of $1 billion yearly in charges to trim the payroll in the current quarter. He said most of the affected workers would be outside the United States.

I.B.M.’s earnings results fell short of analysts’ estimates, for the first time since 2005.

The profit performance was 5 cents below expectations of $3.05 a share, as compiled by Thomson Reuters. Operating earnings rose 8 percent to $3 a share, compared with $2.78 a share last year; these earnings typically surpass the net income results because I.B.M. spends billions each year buying its own shares, so there are fewer.

Revenue for the quarter declined to $23.4 billion, held down by the continuing economic weakness in some markets and a stronger dollar. Its revenue fell below the Wall Street forecast of $24.7 billion.

In after-hours trading, I.B.M. shares were down 4.2 percent to $198.45 a share. During the regular session, when stock prices fell in general and before I.B.M. reported earnings, its shares closed at $207.15, off $2.52, or 1.2 percent.

Businesses that I.B.M. has earmarked for growth performed robustly. For example, its so-called Smarter Planet division, which sells mainly software and services to governments and companies to streamline product distribution, reduce energy consumption and manage traffic, rose more than 25 percent.

But growth units could not offset weak demand elsewhere. Revenue for its big services business, which accounts for half of I.B.M.’s revenue, was down 4 percent. Its software business was flat for the quarter, while hardware sales fell 17 percent.

Analysts say the hardware problem could point to a structural shift as companies tap computing resources from remote data centers run by others — so-called cloud computing — instead of building out their own data centers. Still, I.B.M. reported that its own cloud computing unit grew more than 70 percent.
500 2013-04-19 The Windows results included sales of Surface, a family of Microsoft-designed tablet computers that the company did not begin selling until late last year. Finally, the business got a lift from multiyear licensing agreements with big corporate customers, which allow them to install new versions of the operating system on their computers, with Microsoft gradually recognizing the revenue over the life of the contracts.

Analysts said the results were better than some of the more dire outcomes that had been predicted for Microsoft. “Windows revenue being flat is better than being down double digits,” said Colin Gillis, an analyst at BGC Financial.

The company’s profit figures exceeded Wall Street estimates and the company’s shares rose 2.7 percent in after-hours trading.

For its fiscal third quarter, which ended March 31, the company reported net income of $6.06 billion, or 72 cents a share, up from $5.11 billion, or 60 cents a share in the same period a year ago.

While revenue came in slightly below analysts’ expectations of $20.56 billion, the company beat Wall Street forecasts of 68 cents a share, according to an average estimate compiled by Thomson Reuters.

Microsoft still has a lot of work to do to restore growth to its Windows business, one of the main engines of the company’s profits. The company created a markedly different interface for Windows 8 to make the software work better on touch-screen devices. But its look is so different from past versions of Windows that the product might have put off some customers, according to IDC, and some PC makers say they’ve been disappointed with the customer reception of Windows 8.

The company has also struggled to gain ground in the mobile phone market with an operating system called Windows Phone, which lags far behind Apple’s iPhone and devices running Google’s Android operating system in market share.

In an e-mail sent to Microsoft employees on Thursday, Microsoft’s chief executive, Steve Ballmer, said that “while the mobile device environment is challenging, the decisions we made with Windows 8 and Windows Phone 8 set us up well for long-term growth.”

The departure of a chief financial officer is often the source of hand-wringing among investors, who fear it could be a sign of deeper financial problems at a company. Microsoft has seen the departure of a number of other high-level executives over the past several years, raising concerns about its ability to retain talent.

“They’ve had a lot of departures, so that part is troubling,” said Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities.

But investors seemed to shrug off the news of Mr. Klein’s departure. In an interview, Mr. Klein said he was leaving Microsoft after 11 years at the company to spend more time with his family, which he said he could not do during his career in business.

“This is what it is,” Mr. Klein said. “I’ve been killing it for 30 years.”

Microsoft’s broad product portfolio helped lift its growth, including its server and tools division, which rose 11 percent to $5.04 billion. The company’s business division, which includes its Office software and a new service called Office 365, rose 8 percent to $6.32 billion.

Microsoft’s Internet division, a perennial money-loser for the company, bled only $262 million in red ink in the quarter, compared to $480 million a year earlier.

“I always feel with Microsoft there’s a lot of good things they don’t get credit for, but they are facing a lot of challenges,” Mr. Gillis said. “That’s going to be the focus.”
501 2013-04-19 Western nations have also cast strong doubts on the Syrian government’s claim, and have said that any investigation should also include claims by anti-Assad activists that the government has used chemical weapons in the city of Homs and the Damascus suburbs.

Mr. Ban told reporters on Wednesday that an investigative team he had assembled was “ready to deploy quickly, as soon as we have the Syrian government’s consent.” But he also said that “the mission needs to investigate all the allegations made by the member states,” which suggested there would be no quick solution to the deadlock.

Martin Nesirky, a spokesman for Mr. Ban, said he could not comment on a report in The Washington Post that the British and French correspondence with Mr. Ban contained information about soil samples and witness interviews that bolstered  suspicion that Syrian forces had used the weapons. But Mr. Nesirky noted that “the secretary general has already said publicly that the governments of Syria, the United Kingdom and France have presented allegations with supporting information and requested a speedy investigation.”

In Washington, the director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr., told the Senate Armed Services Committee on Thursday that American intelligence agencies were assessing claims that the Syrian government had used chemical agents, but would not be more definitive.

“We receive many claims of chemical warfare use in Syria each day,” he said, “and we take them all seriously and we do all we can to investigate them.” A spokesman for the C.I.A. would not comment on the French and British reports.

When asked whether any of these claims, if confirmed, would cross Mr. Obama’s threshold for military intervention in the two-year-old Syrian conflict, Mr. Clapper insisted that “was a policy question and not one for intelligence to comment on.”

Mr. Clapper’s testimony reflected a growing assessment within the American intelligence community that the Syrian government may have used some kind of chemical agents, like a powerful tear gas, but not the most deadly ones, like sarin.

These assessments are based on witness accounts, medical results from Syrian civilians who may have been exposed to chemical agents who were treated in Turkey, and preliminary testing of soil samples taken from Syria. But officials say there is no consensus and that more testing is needed. Some administration officials believe the Syrian government may be testing the West to see what chemical agents it can use and in what amounts before it would trigger Western intervention.

The questions over possible chemical weapons use in Syria were overshadowed at the United Nations on Thursday by dire new predictions of a worsening humanitarian crisis caused by the war, and frustrations that aid agencies are running out of money. Kuwait provided some respite with an announcement it had given $300 million to the international relief effort for refugees and other Syrian war victims. Kuwait’s donation, $275 million to nine United Nations agencies and $25 million to the International Committee of the Red Cross, was announced at a news briefing at the Geneva offices of the United Nations.

Access to deprived Syrians inside the country has also emerged as a major problem, aid officials said. Valerie Amos, the top United Nations humanitarian official, told a meeting of the Security Council on Thursday that Syria had imposed a new and onerous requirement that all aid trucks allowed into the country must be approved by two government ministers.

The number of Syrian refugees has risen to nearly 1.4 million this week from 30,000 a year ago, the United Nations refugee agency reported, a quarter more than it had predicted for the end of June. The number of refugees could double or triple to around three million by the end of the year, said António Guterres, the United Nations high commissioner for refugees.
502 2013-04-19 BERLIN — Germany’s lower house of Parliament approved the bailout package for Cyprus on Thursday, bringing to an end to months of debate in Berlin.

Wolfgang Schäuble, Germany’s finance minister, warned lawmakers ahead of the vote that despite its tiny size, Cyprus could still endanger the broader economy of the European Union if its troubles were ignored.

“We must prevent that the problems in Cyprus become problems for other countries,” Mr. Schäuble said. He added that if Cyprus were allowed to go bankrupt, there was a “significant risk” of contagion to Greece and other vulnerable countries in the euro zone.

As expected, a clear majority of 487 out of 602 lawmakers casting ballots voted in favor of the package, which includes €9 billion, or $11.7 billion, in contributions from European Union members. The International Monetary Fund is to contribute an additional €1 billion.

German law requires parliamentary approval of all financial assistance the country extends to other European Union members.

In a separate vote, the German lawmakers also approved seven-year extensions on loans previously granted to Ireland and Portugal.
503 2013-04-19 SEOUL, South Korea — At least two agents from the South Korean National Intelligence Service illegally posted comments online criticizing the political opposition ahead of the December presidential election, the police said on Thursday in an interim report on an investigation into accusations of political meddling.

The police said it remained unclear whether the two agents were part of an operation to influence the Dec. 19 election, as the opposition Democratic United Party claimed. But the findings were a blow to President Park Geun-hye, who had vehemently accused her opposition rival, Moon Jae-in, of a political offensive when his party first made accusations of illegal campaign activities by intelligence agents.

Ms. Park, the governing party candidate, won the election by a margin of one million votes.

The case revived long-held suspicions among South Koreans over the role of the National Intelligence Service. The country’s former military dictators — including Ms. Park’s father, the late President Park Chung-hee — had used the agency, once known by its infamous acronym, K.C.I.A., to torture and silence dissidents and influence domestic politics.

After the country democratized in the early 1990s, the agency, which has changed its name a few times, repeatedly vowed not to intervene in politics.

On Thursday, Lee Kwang-seok, chief of the Suseo Police Station in Seoul, admitted difficulties investigating the secretive agency. The supervisor of the two agents, who are from the intelligence service’s psychological intelligence bureau, refused to be questioned, Mr. Lee said.
504 2013-04-19 DUBAI, United Arab Emirates — Security authorities in the United Arab Emirates said on Thursday that they had arrested seven members of a “terrorist cell” affiliated with Al Qaeda accused of plotting attacks in the Emirates and in neighboring oil-producing states, according to the official WAM news agency.

The suspects, all citizens of unspecified Arab countries, had also been “planning to recruit people and to promote the work of Al Qaeda, in addition to providing the organization with funds and logistical support to facilitate the extension of their activities to some countries in the region,” the news agency said, citing an unidentified official source.

“The source said that the State Security Prosecution will start investigation of the accused. Once these procedures are completed, they will be brought to trial,” the news agency said, without giving further details.

The United Arab Emirates rank among the West’s strongest regional allies and form the area’s most developed business and financial hub at a strategic location on the Persian Gulf.

The federation projects itself as a bastion of political stability in a volatile area dominated by the regional powers Iran and Saudi Arabia, attracting billions of dollars in investment from lands seized by the turmoil of revolt, like Syria, Egypt and Tunisia.

The arrests reported on Thursday follow a series of other actions designed to thwart an upsurge in Islamic sentiment in some parts of the grouping.
505 2013-04-19 Verizon Communications on Thursday reported a healthy profit, driven primarily by its wireless business, which brought in millions of smartphone sales and a mountain of money from subscribers that just keeps growing.

For Verizon, the top American phone carrier, prolonged success is good news in the telecommunications industry, a business that is adding customers more slowly now because most people who want a cellphone already have one.

Investors in the company are probably especially happy that even though Verizon has gradually raised prices of phone plans while eliminating unlimited data over the last few years, customers have been willing to spend more on their monthly bills.

“It’s just amazing that the average revenue per account keeps growing,” said Tero Kuittinen, a telecom analyst at Alekstra, a mobile diagnostics firm. He said it was impressive that Verizon continued to squeeze more money from each customer, because its newest subscribers were “low-quality” customers — budget-conscious people who held out for many years on buying smartphones.

In its earnings call, Verizon said net income in the first quarter rose 15.8 percent to $1.95 billion, or 68 cents a share, from the same quarter a year earlier, while revenue climbed 4.2 percent to $29.4 billion.

The company, based in New York, said its wireless business earned significant revenue because of strong sales of smartphones, as well as the popularity of its shared-data subscription plans, which are more expensive for individuals but can be cost-effective for families with multiple devices.
506 2013-04-20 The  Bronx High School of Science  has produced more scientific leaders than many countries, including eight Nobel Prize winners in physics and chemistry.&#xa;   &#xa;But when New York City&#x2019;s premier science magnet school decided to honor i...
507 2013-04-20 BARST--Dr. Robyn. The congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted member and extends sympathy to her bereaved family. Lisa Messinger, President Jonathan E. Blake, Rabbi Jill Abramson, Cantor...
508 2013-04-20 BARST--Robyn, 62, of Scarsdale. Survived by her loving husband Samuel of 32 years; was the adoring mother of Nomi (David) Berenson, Lindsey (Jason) Gumer and grandson Tobias Berenson; her sister Lynn Hofstra and mother Ruth. Professor Emeritus at ...
509 2013-04-20 The audience directed its anger over Bloomberg’s policies toward City Council speaker Christine C. Quinn, and one of her opponents for mayor took several opportunities to criticize her....
510 2013-04-20 Family of missing Indian American student horrified to see his name falsely connected with Boston attacks....
511 2013-04-20 Pictures From the Week in Business
512 2013-04-20 Power producers would have to curb the tainted water they discharge into waterways under a proposal issued by the Environmental Protection Agency on Friday, the latest in a series of rules focused on utilities that burn coal. The agency proposed four options for regulating the waste from power plants, which are the top source of pollutants in streams, rivers and other waters. The final rules would have the most impact on coal-fired plants, which are the primary source of the pollutants, and would be phased in beginning in 2017. The Sierra Club, which sued the agency to issue the rules, said the announcement was an important step. “When finalized in their strongest form, the Environmental Protection Agency’s common-sense and affordable standards will save lives, prevent children from getting sick, and ensure our water is safe to drink and our fish safe to eat,” said Michael Brune, the group’s executive director.
513 2013-04-20 WASHINGTON — The human rights picture in many countries remained deeply troubling last year, the State Department said Friday, with the Middle East facing “the harsh realities of incomplete and contested transitions,” Russia and Iran cracking down on activists, and many governments harshly suppressing both new and traditional media.

For countries undergoing wrenching transitions, in the Middle East or elsewhere, “the way forward is much less clear” than before, said Secretary of State John Kerry, in releasing the department’s annual report on human rights practices at a briefing for reporters.

It was a difficult year for nongovernmental organizations, journalists and bloggers, including ordinary civilians using social media, to vent sometimes daily complaints. The report said that 2012 was the deadliest year for journalists since at least 1997; and that the number of journalists in prison had more than quadrupled since 2011.

But the State Department report also highlighted a few bright spots:  Myanmar, formerly Burma, which continued a move away from authoritarian rule; Georgia, which had a rare peaceful transfer of power; and Tunisia, which secured some gains from its 2011 rebellion.

Some of the gravest challenges to human rights, according to the voluminous report, came in countries where the Arab Spring movement had once raised the greatest hopes.
514 2013-04-20 Mississippi has become the third state to sue BP over the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill. State Attorney General Jim Hood said on Friday that the state had filed suits in federal and state court. Mr. Hood said he wanted to settle, but he said BP refused to negotiate. A spokeswoman for BP did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Louisiana and Alabama sued BP earlier and are participating in a federal trial in New Orleans to determine the liability of BP and its contractors. Mississippi had not been participating because it had not sued.
515 2013-04-20 After a meeting of several South American presidents, the organization released a statement recognizing Mr. Maduro as Venezuela’s new president.

The statement also took “positive note” of the decision to carry out the partial recount and called for dialogue and toleration.

The inauguration was attended by many Latin American heads of state, including the leaders of Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia and Peru. Two allies of Mr. Chávez’s sat side by side: Presidents Raúl Castro of Cuba and Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran.

The ceremony, in the National Assembly chamber, was marred by a bizarre episode.

Five minutes after Mr. Maduro started speaking, a man in a red jacket ran onto the rostrum, pushed him aside and shouted something into the microphone. The television camera cut away and when it returned a minute later the man was gone, apparently hustled away by guards.

“The security has failed absolutely,” Mr. Maduro said. “They could have shot me here.”

But he soon regained his equilibrium. “Incident overcome,” he said. “Afterward we will speak with this boy. Who knows what desperation he carries.”

He added, “Now they’re going to say that it was part of a setup, a reality show that we created to get the attention of those who weren’t watching.”

The intrusion was noteworthy not simply because of the breach of security at an event attended by numerous heads of state, but also because Mr. Maduro has repeatedly said in recent weeks that his enemies were conspiring to assassinate him or to overthrow his government. But he did not immediately blame the opposition for the episode.

Mr. Maduro, 50, faces many challenges. He must try to keep Mr. Chávez’s movement unified while parrying an energized opposition. He faces serious economic problems like high inflation and shortages of basic goods, rampant violent crime and an electrical grid prone to blackouts.

Most of all he must prove to Venezuelans that he can carry on in place of the magnetic Mr. Chávez, who held office for 14 years and dominated every aspect of political life. He will serve the remainder of Mr. Chávez’s six-year term, which began in January.

In his speech, Mr. Maduro compared Mr. Capriles and his followers to Nazis and the devil. But he also said he was ready for dialogue. “I extend you my hand,” he said, addressing those who voted against him. “I want to work with you.”

The event invited comparisons to a rally in January held on the day that Mr. Chávez was to be sworn in. He could not attend because he was in Cuba following cancer surgery. But tens of thousands of people showed up to take the oath of office in place of their absent president.

On Friday, while there were thousands of people on the streets in red T-shirts, the crowd was a far cry from the one in January. People bunched up at intersections, where there were stages with bands playing, but in between the stages there were few people.

An M.C. on one stage shouted to the crowd gathered nearby: “Where are the Chavistas?” Several dozen people raised their hands and shouted, but the man’s words could also have been taken as a rhetorical question, as if to say, “Where did everyone go?”
516 2013-04-20 The portrait of the American Humane Association, which issues the well-known “No Animals Were Harmed” end credit to productions maintaining a high standard of care, was almost unrecognizable in “Flaws Seen in Protection of Animals on the Set” (Business Day, April 15).

For 70 years, this small charity, which has been at the forefront in protecting our children, pets and farm animals from cruelty, abuse and neglect, has been working with a remarkably high degree of effectiveness to keep animal actors safe on set.

Our highly trained safety reps work hard to make sure that animals are being treated humanely, vigorously enforce our stringent guidelines, remove hazards and create the safest environment possible for the animals while under our watchful eye.

Our safety rate — 99.98 percent — is heartening, yet there are still occasional accidents and problems, many of them off set, where we do not oversee the animals. This is why we are calling on the film and television industries to help us expand our mandate and protect more of our beloved animal co-stars both on the set and off.
517 2013-04-20 Karl Berger, the jazz pianist, vibraphonist and conductor of improvisers, ran a workshop for his orchestra before its performance at ShapeShifter Lab in Brooklyn on Thursday night. He uses a few simple hand signals for duration, attack and pitch, and the musicians wanted to be sure they were interpreting the specifics correctly. But Mr. Berger seemed more concerned with telling them something very general.

“Hear your sound as if you’re playing the sound of the whole group,” he told them, after they played a few motley, heaving phrases in unison together. (Karl Berger’s Improvisers Orchestra plays written material — melodies and frameworks — but much more of its music is orchestral improvisation in which there are, strictly speaking, no wrong notes.) “You are the sound. You’re not just the voice within the sound. You’re the sound.”

They played some more vast chords. The music grew rounder, blended and more coherent. “Let’s get our ears open completely,” he said. “They’re open anyway, so what can we do?”

The German-born Mr. Berger, 78, played with the trumpeter Don Cherry in Europe in the early 1960s, then moved to New York, where he worked in Cherry’s band and in the city’s wider circles of free and experimental jazz. (He can be heard on Cherry’s 1966 record “Symphony for Improvisers.”) Eventually Mr. Berger and his wife, the singer Ingrid Sertso, moved upstate to Woodstock. There, in 1972, they founded the Creative Music Studio — a small, loose and progressive music school highly influential on a generation of improvisers.

The school ended in 1984, but he continued to teach residencies and workshops ever since. He’s organized a high-powered one in May, celebrating the 40th anniversary of CMS, involving musicians like Dave Douglas, Don Byron, Oliver Lake and Marilyn Crispell. Its literature promises not lessons in technical mastery but in “keen awareness, personal expression, intensive listening and cross-cultural communication.” He is drawn to nonsystems; he’s also drawn to the noneasy. But the music on Thursday night, and the show itself, felt relaxed and well-defined.
518 2013-04-20 Investigators in the United States and Japan have still not been able to identify precisely what caused the batteries to overheat, and, in one case, ignite. Boeing’s fixes include better insulation for the batteries’ eight cells, and a stainless steel box designed to encase the batteries and contain fire and vent possible smoke or hazardous gases out of the planes. Mike Sinnett, Boeing’s chief engineer for the 787, said that the tests performed in the last month showed the batteries were now much less likely to overheat.

Boeing engineers have also made modifications to the plane’s power panels and generators, including replacing some parts and bringing components “up to the latest standards,” Mr. Sinnett said. Those changes were not linked to the battery system, and were not required by the F.A.A., he said, but they had failed in the past and caused problems before the planes were grounded.

The F.A.A. administrator, Michael P. Huerta, and the transportation secretary, Ray LaHood, said they were satisfied that the proposed changes would eliminate concerns that batteries could erupt in smoke or fire.

The changes “will ensure the safety of the aircraft and its passengers,” Mr. LaHood said Friday.

The F.A.A. will issue a final directive to effectively lift the grounding order and allow each plane operated by an American carrier to return to service as soon as it is modified. So far, United Airlines is the only airline in the United States with 787s in its fleet.

Boeing said it takes just five days for the new system to be installed and has dispatched 300 mechanics around the world to perform the work.

Aviation regulators in Japan and other countries must also weigh in and approve the system. Japan, in particular, is a critical market for Boeing. About half of all 787s delivered until now are operated by two Japanese airlines — All Nippon Airways and Japan Airlines — and Japanese companies manufactured about a third of the plane’s components, including its wings. A Japanese company, GS Yuasa, built the battery.

The Japanese transportation minister, Akihiro Ota, said Friday in Tokyo that Japan’s own assessment of the safety of Boeing’s battery changes was “in its final stages.”

“We’re doing our best to ensure a safe and speedy return to service,” he said.

But Japanese regulators could ask Boeing for additional safeguards, the Nikkei business newspaper reported Friday. Those could include adding devices to transmit voltage and other vital data to controllers on the ground so the batteries can be routinely monitored for irregularities, according to the Nikkei report.

To demonstrate their autonomy from their American counterparts, and to temper passenger fears of flying on a 787, Japanese officials could also require test flights of each plane fitted with the altered battery, the Nikkei said. Regulators in Tokyo could also ask the airlines to conduct more frequent battery checks and retire the batteries after a set period, even if they do not show signs of wear.

Still, airlines are eager for the planes to fly again. All Nippon Airways and United Airlines had both included the 787 on domestic and international routes in flight schedules that start on May 31, provided that aviation authorities lifted the plane’s grounding.

Another operator, Qatar Airlines, had suggested it would seek an even more aggressive schedule and wanted to get the planes back in the air before the end of April.

The government’s decision to approve the fixes was not a surprise. The F.A.A.’s engineers oversaw Boeing’s design of the changes as well as more than 20 types of tests conducted on them over the last month. Boeing had said that it had successfully wrapped up the tests in a flight by a 787 on April 5.

The F.A.A. approval also came before the National Transportation Safety Board hearings next week on why a battery ignited while a plane was parked in Boston on Jan. 7. The board is also examining how Boeing and the F.A.A. underestimated any risks in approving the original battery design in 2007.

By approving the fixes ahead of the safety board’s hearings, the F.A.A. — and Boeing — presumably hopes to deflect any criticism about how it originally certified the plane. The agency could argue that, if the risks were underestimated initially, the new battery system should prevent that from happening again.

Boeing said it had spent more than 100,000 hours on developing its test plans and analyzing results for the new design and brought in more than a dozen battery experts from other industries, government and universities to review its findings.

Mr. Sinnett, the 787 engineer, said the new system was “permanent and comprehensive” and would be used on a longer version of the 787, known as the Dash-9. “We don’t see a need to change course at all,” Mr. Sinnett said.

Aviation experts said Boeing had acquired valuable knowledge about the lithium-ion batteries, a technology that is being used for the first time so extensively in commercial jets, and might yet refine it when the company builds newer versions of the 787.

Boeing has defended its decision to use these batteries because they can pack more energy than more conventional types of batteries.

“I think they have got as much done in three months as three years of experience could have told us,” said Hans J. Weber, the president of Tecop International, an aviation consulting firm. “The battery in four years may look very different.”
519 2013-04-20 Speaking by phone before a recent performance in Norman, Okla., Mr. Beam, who was a painter and film professor before he got into music, described himself as an accidental songwriter — a self-taught guitarist with what he sees as a limited voice, who has recently become inspired by jazz. Here are edited excerpts from the conversation.

Q. How is this new album an evolution from “Kiss Each Other Clean”?

A. When it comes time to put out a record I just look and see what I’ve got. It’s not like I sit down and write a record from start to finish. I pick and choose. I did want to do something a little more sophisticated. The last two records, I had built a home studio, so it was really me learning how to use a home studio as an instrument. This was the opposite. It was going in with charts and saying let’s perform this thing and capture it.

Q. You say you just grab whatever songs you have lying around, but these songs are all about a couple. Don’t they tell a story?

A. It’s actually serendipitous. The serendipity lies in that I like to write about the same things over and over again. [Laughs.] It’s fun to find things that pop up here and there in your songs over and over again, and that’s how I pick what goes on a record. I had a record called “The Shepherd’s Dog,” and a lot of the songs got included because they had a dog somewhere in the song. On “Kiss Each Other Clean,” most of the songs had a river in them somewhere. This one, this couple kept on popping up in the songs. It almost felt like the continuing adventures on the cross-country journey of this couple.

Q. What does “Ghost on Ghost” mean to you?

A. It acknowledges we are not only physically on one another but we are combining souls as well. I wish I could take credit for the line. I stole it from James Wright, the poet.

Q. You started out in the visual arts. Are you still painting?

A. I went to an art school for college. I always thought I’d be a painter. Then I ended up getting into film work, and that took over for a while. Songwriting was always a hobby, and it eclipsed all those things. It’s been nice to get back to the painting.

Q. You live in a farmhouse outside Austin with your wife, Kim, and five daughters, yet your songs don’t talk much about that bucolic life. Why not?

A. I’m not really interested in diary entry kind of songs. That said, things in my life definitely creep into the songs here and there.

A. I wish I had taken lessons, that’s for sure. If I had known that I was going to be posing as a musician for my life I might have taken more lessons. I don’t really know how to read music or really play the guitar to be honest. I just play it by ear.

Q. There seem to be strains of jazz, ’70s funk and Motown in this album. What artists were you listening to when you wrote it?

A. I wasn’t really listening to anything too different than I normally listen to. I’ve been playing primarily with jazz players for the last few years — I had always shied away from it because I don’t know how to play it. We did speak specifically about some musical touchstones. There were some obvious Motown things in the demos. Also myself and Brian Deck and Rob Burger talked a lot about Paul McCartney’s “Ram” record. It feels very polished but it has a rough edge to it.

All of my records lately have been genre potpourri records. So we talked about when we were going too far in one direction, how to mix it up.

Q. Your early songs like “Naked as We Came” and “The Trapeze Swinger” had this hypnotic, laid-back, whispery beauty. Your new songs really groove rhythmically. What’s happening?

A. I was doing what I thought my voice could do. Now I’m trying to do different things. At the same time I’m learning the limitations of my voice. It’s almost like syrup in the mix. It’s always this factor that evens things out. I wish I was one of those singers who could belt it out and their voice would crack in a beautiful way like one of those old amps. A John Lennon voice. I love those voices, but mine’s the opposite of that.

People ask me if I’m worried about changing too much. I never feel that way. I feel to a certain extent, and maybe it’s blind naïve courage, my voice tends to tie things together.
520 2013-04-20 Iraq’s application of the death penalty is particularly egregious, human rights advocates say, because convictions are often based on confessions induced by torture or the testimony of confidential informants. Ms. Pillay said Iraq’s judicial system was “too seriously flawed to warrant even a limited application of the death penalty, let alone dozens of executions at a time.”

She continued, “The application of the death penalty in these circumstances is unconscionable, as any miscarriage of justice as a result of capital punishment cannot be undone.”

A Justice Ministry spokesman could not be reached Friday evening to comment on Ms. Pillay’s statement, but Iraqi officials have defended the government’s use of the death penalty as necessary to combat terrorism. The government says that the latest group of prisoners to be hanged were all members of Al Qaeda in Iraq involved in bombings and assassinations, and that it executes only those convicted of terrorism and serious crimes against civilians. The latest executions came amid preparations for local elections this weekend, the first since the withdrawal of United States forces in 2011. The campaign has been marred by a wave of bombings that has caused heavy casualties.

In a statement released this week after the 21 prisoners were executed, Justice Minister Hasan al-Shammari said, “The Ministry of Justice had to carry out the punishment against those killers that have shed innocent Iraqi blood.”

He said the ministry would “continue to implement the measures of the judiciary against the terrorist murderers.”

In an interview, Izzat al-Shahbandar, a member of Parliament who is a close aide to Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, sharply rebuked Ms. Pillay.

“This statement means nothing to us,” Mr. Shahbandar said. “The people that have been executed are criminals. The timing of the executions is up to the judiciary and government authorities, and they don’t have the right to interfere in our internal issues.”

Referring to the objections by other countries, Mr. Shahbandar said, “Where were they when Saddam was killing hundreds of people each day?”

Then he referred to the tens of thousands of innocent Iraqis killed during the past 10 years and said, “Now the human rights people are shedding their tears.” He said the executions were carried out according to international law, and he invited Ms. Pillay to “come and watch some of them.”

Ms. Pillay’s statement reflected a growing sense of outrage among human rights advocates toward the rise in executions in Iraq, and the harshness of the statement was welcomed by those who have been raising alarms for some time. Amnesty International has said Iraq ranked among the world’s top five executioners last year, with China, Iran, Saudi Arabia and the United States.

“I think it’s the strongest statement I’ve ever heard her make about anything,” said Erin Evers, a Middle East researcher at Human Rights Watch who has recently interviewed death row inmates in Iraq.

Executions here are carried out in a single location: a prison in the Kadhimiya neighborhood of the capital that is otherwise known for its famous Shiite shrine. Under Saddam Hussein, the prison was known as a place where Iraqis went to disappear, and then Hussein himself was executed there after the American invasion toppled his government. Now, about 1,400 prisoners — including 38 women — sit on death row.

After a conviction, a prisoner can wait years to die — or a couple of weeks if a family member of a victim has political clout — never knowing if each day is the last, rights activists say.

The administration of the death penalty today is particularly inhumane, activists say, not only because of the flaws in the judiciary, but because family members of the condemned are not allowed a last visit. In fact, they are often not even notified after an execution, left to make panicked inquiries when an execution is reported in the news media.

“Someone with a family member on death row is left to wonder, ‘Is that my son? Is that my daughter?’ ” Ms. Evers said.
521 2013-04-21 Members of the audience called her a &#x201C;liar,&#x201D; an opponent relentlessly attacked her, and the moderator at one point had to beg the scornful crowd to let her speak.&#xa;   &#xa;On Saturday, a forum of five Democratic mayoral candidates...
522 2013-04-21 Ford Motor and General Motors announced on Monday that they would jointly develop new transmissions with 9 speeds for front-wheel-drive vehicles and 10 speeds for rear-drive cars and trucks. The new transmissions, with more forward gear ratios tha...
523 2013-04-21 MCCAUSLAND--Robert G.,passed April 13. Loving husband to Marilyn; his daughter, two sons, two step-daughters and six grandchildren. Born in Philadelphia's main line in 1928; graduated Gettysburg College, Naval Intelligence School and flew USN as a...
524 2013-04-21 BARST--Robyn. Your grace, courage and dignity inspired us. Our lives will never be the same without you. Eternal love, Debra & Andy...
525 2013-04-21 BARST--Robyn, 62, of Scarsdale. Survived by her loving husband Samuel of 32 years; was the adoring mother of Nomi (David) Berenson, Lindsey (Jason) Gumer and grandson Tobias Berenson; her sister Lynn Hofstra and mother Ruth. Professor Emeritus at ...
526 2013-04-21 The European Union’s Emissions Trading System was intended to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by setting a market price on them. The system, set up in three phases, requires polluters to acquire credits to offset their emissions. A glut of credits, combined with lower demand because of the weak economy, has driven down the price to close to zero.
527 2013-04-21 Surveys conducted when this debate was last in the news found that a small majority of Americans favored informing terrorism suspects of their Miranda rights....
528 2013-04-21 SEOUL, South Korea (Reuters) — North Korea has moved two short-range missile launchers to its east coast in an indication that it is pushing ahead with preparations for a test launching, a South Korean news agency reported on Sunday.

South Korea and its allies have been expecting some sort of North Korean missile launching during weeks of heightened hostility on the Korean Peninsula.

An unidentified South Korean military source told the South’s Yonhap news agency that satellite imagery showed that North Korean forces had moved two mobile missile launchers for short-range Scud missiles to South Hamgyeong Province.

“The military is closely watching the North’s latest preparations for a missile launch,” the source said.

The North moved two midrange Musudan missiles in early April and placed seven mobile launchers in the same area, Yonhap said.
529 2013-04-21 Melissa Mae Williams and John Crawford Aram Omartian were married Saturday at the Inn at Willow Grove in Orange, Va. Donald L. Hughes, a marriage commissioner of Orange County, Va., officiated at a secular ceremony that was led by Antha Nicole Williams, the bride’s sister. The ceremony included a reading of “Union,” an essay by Robert Fulghum.

Ms. Williams, 30, is keeping her name. She is the national political director for the Sierra Club, managing campaigns that endorse political candidates and members of Congress who support the club’s mission. She graduated from Harvard and received a master’s in international political economics from Suffolk University in Boston.

She is a daughter of Janet E. Collins of Arlington, Va., and R. Gary Williams of St. Mary’s City, Md., and a stepdaughter of Linda Sharp Williams. The bride’s father retired as a consultant for the Clark Group, an environmental consultancy in Washington, where he conducted environmental impact analyses of corporate and government projects. He was also an adjunct professor of sociology in the Duke Environmental Leadership Program, a weeklong executive education program at Duke University in Durham, N.C. Her mother works in Washington as the senior manager of corporate regulatory affairs for the DuPont Company. The bride’s stepmother retired as a science teacher at the Arlington Science Focus School.

Mr. Omartian, 31, works at Delcor Technology Solutions, a technology consultancy in Silver Spring, Md., as an information technology consultant to nonprofit organizations and trade associations. He graduated from the University of Delaware.

He is the son of Karen Chapman Omartian and Arthur A. Omartian of St. Albans, Vt. The groom’s mother, who is retired, was a physical therapist in the Arlington Public Schools in Virginia. His father, also retired, was a civilian employee of the Pentagon, where he supervised information technology acquisitions for the Defense Department.
530 2013-04-21 Emily Kate Verellen and Darnell Omari Strom were married Saturday evening at Carondelet House, an event space in Los Angeles. Ken Biberaj, a friend of the couple who was appointed a temporary deputy marriage commissioner by Los Angeles County for the event, officiated.

Mrs. Strom, 32, is the director of programs and communications for the Fledgling Fund, a private family foundation that finances documentary films on social issues. She graduated from American University in Washington and received a master’s degree in international development and demography from the London School of Economics.

She is the daughter of Cristy K. Verellen and Tim Verellen, both of Federal Way, Wash.

Mr. Strom, 31, is an agent in Los Angeles at Creative Artists Agency. His clients include professional athletes, musicians and actors. He graduated from Florida A&M University.

He is a son of Loretta W. Strom and Raymond Strom of San Jose, Calif.
531 2013-04-21 Rabbi Rachel Marissa Isaacs and Melanie Anne Weiss were married Friday in a civil ceremony at Beth Israel Congregation in Waterville, Me., where Rabbi Isaacs is the spiritual leader. Robert Sezak, a Maine notary, officiated. On April 28, Rabbi Carie Carter is to lead a religious ceremony at the Prospect Park Picnic House in Brooklyn, with Rabbi Dr. David Ellenson taking part.

Rabbi Isaacs, 30, is also the campus rabbi at Colby College in Waterville. She graduated summa cum laude from Wellesley and received a master’s in Jewish studies from the Jewish Theological Seminary of America, where she was ordained. She is the daughter of Dr. Paula S. Krauser and Charles E. Isaacs of Manalapan, N.J.

Ms. Weiss, 29, is the director of education at Beth Israel Congregation, and works from Portland, Me., as the communications associate of Keshet, an advocacy group for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender Jews. She graduated from Sarah Lawrence and received a master’s in modern Jewish studies at the Jewish Theological Seminary. She is the daughter of Heidi R. Weiss and Michael E. Weiss of Larchmont, N.Y.

Correction: April 28, 2013 

 Because of an editing error, a report last Sunday, about the marriage of Rabbi Rachel Isaacs and Melanie Weiss, referred incorrectly to Ms. Weiss. She is neither a rabbi nor the spiritual leader of Beth Israel Congregation in Waterville, Me., titles held by Rabbi Isaacs. The report also misstated Rabbi Isaacs’s role at Colby College. She is the campus rabbi, not the spiritual leader.
532 2013-04-21 In reports this month, a host of investment banks and brokerage firms have said that a range of commodities is caught in a downdraft. Edward L. Morse, global head of commodities research at Citigroup in New York, said he “expects 2013 to be the year in which the death bells ring for the commodity supercycle.” This, he wrote, should be the first year “in over a decade in which, broadly, commodity prices end the year lower than when the year started.”

Already this year, many commodities have built up deficits. Gold is down 16.3 percent, while silver, its less glamorous sidekick, has fallen 23.1 percent. Copper has lost 13.3 percent, and oil, 4.3 percent. The S.& P. GSCI index, which tracks a basket of commodities futures contracts, is down 7.5 percent.

If commodities don’t recover together by year-end, it would be a significant reversal. From 2000 through March, gold prices rose 13.8 percent, annualized, compared with 10.9 percent for copper, 10.6 percent for oil and 9.6 percent for the S.& P. GSCI, according to Bloomberg. That’s a reason Mr. Morse and some other analysts have called the long climb a supercycle.

David S. Jacks, an economics professor at Simon Fraser University in British Columbia who has analyzed more than 160 years of prices for 30 commodities, subscribes to this view. He says he has found a modest, 2 percent annualized price increase since 1950, adjusted for inflation. But he discerns supercycles within this trend. After roughly 15 years of generally upward movement, he believes that we have entered a phase of declining prices.

Like Mr. Morse and Mr. Jessop, he says that after the Asian currency crisis of the late 1990s, the explosive growth of resource-hungry emerging economies like China’s helped set off a multiyear commodities price boom. And he says today’s apparent slowdown in China, and signs of weakness in the global economy, have contributed to the current decline.

Mr. Jacks has found tight correlations among nearly all “hard” commodities — “those that are extracted from the ground, rather than grown on it.” Part of this may be because of the “financialization” of commodities — their inclusion in indexes and exchange-traded funds that let traders place bets by pressing a button. Agricultural commodities like wheat that are included in broad indexes like the GSCI have come to share in these price movements, he says.

Because so many commodities are finite, Mr. Jacks says, population pressures and industrial growth have given prices a modest upward long-term trend that should eventually dominate again.

MR. JESSOP agrees with some but by no means all of this. While he expects gold to recover as an alternative to currencies like the dollar, he says commodities over all are likely to decline for a while.

Low interest rates and the liquidity uncorked by the Federal Reserve and other central banks helped account for commodities’ climb in recent years, he says, but asset classes like stocks now benefit more from that easy money. He says shocks from the euro zone and China are more likely to hurt commodities than equities, especially in the United States. That’s because stocks “represent a claim on the cash flow of corporations for years to come,” he says, “and those long-term flows aren’t as economically sensitive as commodities are.”

But he does not recognize the existence of commodities supercycles.

“It’s been more like a roller coaster, with booms and busts and prices moving up and down,” he says. All else equal, he says, when prices rise, demand tends to decline and supply to increase — leading to a glut. “I’m not sure that I see any cycles beyond that.”

Jeremy Grantham, founder of the Boston asset management firm GMO, sees the commodities price decline as a short-term investing opportunity for individuals and for his own family foundation, which has made major donations to organizations focused on the environment, including InsideClimate News, the nonprofit that recently won a Pulitzer Prize.

Mr. Grantham says he is making long-term buys of “good farmland and forestry and, secondly, in good stuff in the ground like oil, copper, potash and phosphate.” He quickly adds, “Skip coal and tar sands because they will be priced out of business.” Natural gas, which has been plentiful and cheap in the United States, is likely to be in high demand and climb in price, he said.

Seeing the planet as endangered by climate change, he says human ingenuity must respond fast enough to stave off disaster. In the meantime, he says, crucial commodities are likely to be in scarce supply — and he expects them to rise in value over the next decade.

“There just isn’t enough of these things,” Mr. Grantham said. “Of that I’m confident.”
533 2013-04-21 And while it reflected political factionalism, it also tapped into a philosophical divide. The regents, Perry and a conservative think tank with great sway over the governor have all called for, or mused publicly about, reforms at the university that many other Texans have deep and warranted reservations about.

The reformers want professors evaluated by how many students they teach and how many research dollars they attract, metrics that favor large classes and less speculative, visionary science.

They want the school to figure out a way, despite huge cutbacks in public funding, to offer students a four-year degree for a sum total of $10,000 in tuition, which is a small fraction of the current cost and seemingly impossible without a diminution in the quality of instruction.

They want expanded online classes. And they want programs tailored more precisely to the job market of the moment.

Powers says he’s open to much of this — to a point. “I and every other university president I know has made efficiency and affordability and using new teaching systems a high priority,” he told me when I met with him last week. The issue, he added, is how to do this while still “educating students at the highest level.”

The pressures on him and university administrators around the country stem from the severity of the country’s economic downturn and state governments’ accordant budgetary woes. Funding of public universities hasn’t just declined; it’s plummeted. Increases in tuition have been necessary, even as students find it more difficult to afford. Some students can’t make it to the finish line of a bachelor’s degree, which betters their odds of employment. Others graduate with crippling debt into a grim job market and wind up with work that doesn’t reflect the level or focus of their education.

And so colleges in are now required to provide information for a database that shows what graduates majored in and what they wound up earning 18 months after getting their diplomas. lawmakers have toyed with encouraging students to study engineering by making their tuition cheaper than humanities majors’. Pat McCrory, the new governor of , recently advocated legislation to distribute funds to the state’s colleges based not on their enrollments — or, as he said on a radio show, on “butts in seats” — but instead on “how many of those butts can get jobs.”

“If you want to take gender studies, that’s fine, go to a private school,” he added. “But I don’t want to subsidize that if that’s not going to get someone a job.”

How practical versus idealistic should the approach to college be? I’m somewhat torn, and past columns have reflected that. I applaud proposals to give young people better information about how various fields of study match up with the job market and about projected returns on their investments in college. And for students who want college to be an instant pivot into a job with decent pay, a nudge toward certain disciplines makes excellent sense.

But college is about more than that, with less targeted, long-term benefits that aren’t easily captured by metrics. And some of the reforms being promoted right now lose sight of that and threaten to lessen the value of a degree.

“You just don’t know what your education is going to result in,” Rawlings told me by phone last week. “Many of the kids graduating from college these days are going to hold a number of different jobs in their lives, and many of those jobs have not yet been invented. For a world like that, what’s the best education? Seems to me it’s a very general education that enables you to think critically.” For precisely that reason, he said, the push in now is for more young people to study humanities, even as the new emphasis here is vocational.

He and Powers raised an additional concern: that the devaluation of any university research that doesn’t have an imminent payoff or attract outside sponsorship could put the country at a global disadvantage down the line. “You never know where scientifically driven curiosity will lead you,” Powers told me, and he’s dead right. Sometimes game-changing, immensely lucrative epiphanies lie on the far side of seemingly esoteric inquiries.

I’d sound yet another alarm. Scratch the surface of some of the efforts to reform state universities and you find more than just legitimate qualms about efficiency and demands for accountability. You find the kind of indiscriminate anti-intellectualism and anti-elitism popular among more than a few right-wing conservatives.

It’s worth noting that Governor Perry has dismissed global warming as “one contrived, phony mess” and that many of the voices calling most loudly for change at the University of Texas are from the Tea Party fringe.

In other words there’s some crude, petty politics in all of this. And as we tackle the very real, very important challenge of giving young Americans the best and most useful education possible in an era of dwindling resources, that’s the last thing we need.
534 2013-04-21 GROWING up in Boston in the 1950s and early ’60s, I suffered, like a lot of people back then, from a civic inferiority complex. Our hometown, we knew, was the Hub only in old newspaper headlines; the real center of the universe was New York.

But we took some small satisfaction in knowing that we had two things New Yorkers did not. We had Patriot’s Day, and we had a marathon — or, rather, the marathon, because except for the one run by Pheidippides, who had ever heard of another? Before marathons were commodified the way they are now, one pretty much the same as the next, our race, which began in 1897, seemed uniquely Bostonian. It was classical in origin; it was a little odd; and in our sports-mad town, where fandom was practically a religion, it was another occasion that summoned forth the congregation.

To schoolchildren, Patriot’s Day was an unexpected gift — a spring holiday that popped up right around Easter, when you thought you were done with vacations, and that brought with it no particular obligation. You didn’t have to go to church or pay homage to dead presidents or worry about getting caught with your illegal firecrackers. If you were lucky enough to have tickets, you could go watch the Red Sox at the decadent and unnatural hour of 11 a.m. and, when the game was over, head down to Kenmore Square and watch the marathoners. Or if you lived, as I did, in Brighton, not far from the bottom of Heartbreak Hill, where the marathon course made a sweeping left turn onto Beacon Street, you could amble out of your house and watch grown-ups lope past in what appeared to be their underwear.

Back then, most people did not run for fun or for exercise or for any other reason if they could help it, and so there was something pleasingly eccentric about the marathon — a once-a-year springtime festival not of misrule, exactly, but of routines temporarily suspended. The students at Wellesley, in their knee socks and Bermudas, spilled out of the dorms to cheer on the runners, and so did the sweatshirted boys from Boston College (still all male), a few miles down the road. Families like mine gathered in small knots, watched and clapped for a while and then went home when the novelty wore off. No one cared too much about who was in the lead because, except for Johnny Kelley, no one knew who any of the runners were.

Johnny Kelley was a Boston native (West Medford) and marathon fixture who ran in the race every year until he was 84. He won in 1935 and 1945 and finished in the top five more than a dozen times. By the time I was watching, he had fallen back more toward the middle of the pack, but with his shy smile and rolling, slightly bowlegged stride, he was still a beloved and instantly recognizable figure. He fascinated my father, who like so many of his generation felt he had gotten all the exercise he needed during the war and wanted only to put in his eight hours on the job and then putter in the basement.
535 2013-04-21 HEALTHFUL FAST FOOD IS POSSIBLE. BUT EDIBLE?

It’s encouraging to see new chains rising to the challenge of offering healthful, affordable food. Even Burger King is now serving veggie burgers. The question is how long until this type of menu item becomes widely available in the fattest, sickest parts of the country. Hurry up, Lyfe Kitchen. Kentucky needs you! MELINDA WESTER, Lexington, Ky., posted on nytimes.com

Not sure why “healthful” fast food needs to be vegan or even vegetarian, as the photos with Mark Bittman’s article suggest. All sorts of processed junk food could qualify as “vegan.” How about a place that serves grass-fed meats or free-range chicken and eggs, along with vegetables and fruit? In other words, real food. I have no interest in eating fake meats made of soy protein and other foodlike substances. KAT, Chicago, posted on nytimes.com

Alex Halberstadt’s article shows the naïve reader how spices can be a doorway to other worlds but simultaneously suggests that you need to have a lot of money to spend at this one shop in Manhattan. I am sure the “spice therapist” is brilliant. But cooks of many ethnic cuisines have also mastered great spice use. DIANA ABRAMO, Brooklyn, posted on nytimes.com

Fascinating article by Nicholas Kulish, not only for its surprising revelations about German cooking but also for its broader discussion of the apprentice system and the emphasis on long-range planning that has paid off so well for Germany even in these perilous times of fiscal upheaval and uncertainty. PAUL ROSENBERGER,

Manhattan Beach, Calif., posted on nytimes.com

It’s great that Kulish covered the educational aspects of the German apprenticeship system. But he didn’t capture the corollary, which is that to support a system like this in the United States, restaurant staff would have to be treated as if they were trained professionals; they’d have to be paid a commensurate salary. LISA FISHER, Vancouver, British Columbia, posted on nytimes.com

THE PROPER WAY TO EAT A PIG

My grandparents were hog farmers. Every fall my family would gather to slaughter our pigs. There was a deep appreciation for where food came from as we processed every part of the pig. I do not believe that killing animals for food is cruel. NETHEA RHINEHARDT, Atlanta, posted on nytimes.com
536 2013-04-22 The Brooklyn side of the first installment of  TransCultural Express: American and Russian Arts Today , a three-year collaboration between  the Brooklyn Academy of Music  and the Mikhail Prokhorov Fund will include screenings of contemporary Russi...
537 2013-04-22 As president of Microsoft&#x2019;s server and tools division, a $19 billion-a-year business devoted to databases, servers and other software products, Satya Nadella has a predictable cast of competitors to worry about. There is Oracle, VMware, SAP...
538 2013-04-22 An annual Verizon report counted 621 confirmed data breaches last year, and more than 47,000 reported “security incidents.”...
539 2013-04-22 If you’re not sure you need a tablet, $200 is a lot to spend just to find out. But Ematic has reduced the risk with the Genesis Prime, a 7-inch Android tablet that lists for $80....
540 2013-04-22 The British musical earned more than $1 million last week, joining “Motown” and “Kinky Boots” as new shows that are drawing substantial audiences....
541 2013-04-22 Standard & Poor’s urged the dismissal of federal civil accusations that it inflated its credit ratings to win business during the boom in mortgage investments....
542 2013-04-22 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
543 2013-04-22 Premiere of new video by Superhumanoids....
544 2013-04-22 As owners, we often try throwing as much as we can against the wall to see what sticks. This is unlikely to work when it comes to search for capital....
545 2013-04-22 The brasserie opens Monday in Astoria, “the center of Greek culture in New York.”...
546 2013-04-22 Internet Explorer has options for removing unwanted third-party toolbars and other add-ons from the browser window....
547 2013-04-22 Apple, gold and cupcakes all tumble. The strangest travel start-up is revealed. The health care overhaul is labeled a huge train wreck. And do you consider yourself a good boss?...
548 2013-04-22 In the midst of the national struggle for civil rights, James Karales, born into an immigrant Greek family in Ohio, turned his camera on the individuals fighting for rights and respect....
549 2013-04-22 Jaromir Jagr scored his second goal as a member of the Bruins, and host Boston ended a four-game winless streak with a 3-0 victory over Florida on Sunday.

Tuukka Rask stopped 28 shots for his fourth shutout, and the Bruins pulled into a tie with idle Montreal for first place in the Northeast Division, with 59 points. The Bruins have four games to play — one more than the Canadiens — as the longtime rivals try to lock up the division in the final week of the regular season.

AVALANCHE 5, BLUES 3 Jamie McGinn scored twice, Jean-Sebastien Giguere stopped 29 shots and host Colorado prevented St. Louis from wrapping up a playoff spot.

BLUE JACKETS 4, SHARKS 3 Ryan Johansen scored the tiebreaking goal with 1:37 remaining to give visiting Columbus a big lift in its push for the playoffs.

The Blue Jackets moved into a tie for seventh place with Minnesota in the Western Conference with 51 points. The ninth-place Detroit Red Wings are 3 points back in the race for the final playoff spot.
550 2013-04-22 The immigration reform bill introduced by a bipartisan group of senators last week would make it easier for skilled workers to come to this country while toughening rules to prevent abuse in temporary work visas.

Many skilled workers and their families spend a decade or more waiting for employment-based green cards, which are capped at 140,000 a year and are subject to per-country limits. The bill addresses this problem by temporarily raising limits to clear a backlog of 234,000 applications for employment-based permanent visas. It would also exempt spouses and children of workers from the limits, which should free up nearly 80,000 visas a year.

It also creates a “merit based” category of green cards while getting rid of permanent visas for siblings of citizens and for people from countries with low rates of immigration to the United States. These new visas would be given to people on the basis of points granted for factors like the college degrees they have earned; whether their siblings are citizens; how highly they score in an English proficiency test; and whether they are from an underrepresented country. This proposal is deeply troubling because it appears to buy into the zero-sum thinking that pits employment-based immigration against family-sponsored and diversity immigration. America should welcome both groups of people, not choose between them.

The senators also want to expand the popular H-1B category of work visas to 135,000, from 85,000 — a quota that is often reached in a matter of weeks or months every year. The new, higher limit would be allowed to increase or decrease by as many as 10,000 visas a year based on demand for them and government unemployment data. In an important provision, people on such visas will be able to switch employers more easily, making it harder for companies to pay workers below-market salaries.

Another provision would clamp down on abuse by imposing higher fees and other restrictions on employers who have a large percentage of their work force on such visas. Over several years, the bill would force these companies, many of which are the United States operations of outsourcing firms from India, to reduce the number of their workers who are foreigners to less than 50 percent.

While some provisions need to be improved, the bill sets the right tone for making America more hospitable to skilled and hard-working immigrants.
551 2013-04-22 “I’ve been in this business for 30 years, and I’ve never seen the interest in REIT conversions as high as it is today,” said Robert O’Brien, the head of the real estate practice at , the big accounting firm.

At a time when deficits and taxes loom large in Washington, some question whether the new real estate investment trusts deserve their privileged position.

When they were created in 1960, they were meant to be passive investment vehicles, like mutual funds, that buy up a broad portfolio of real estate — whether shopping malls, warehouses, hospitals or even timberland — and derive almost all of their income from those holdings.

One of the bedrock principles — and the reason for the tax exemption — was that the trusts do not do any business other than owning real estate.

But bit by bit, especially in recent years, that has changed as the I.R.S., in a number of low-profile decisions, has broadened the definition of real estate, and allowed companies to split off parts of their business that are unrelated to real estate.

For example, prison companies like the Corrections Corporation and the successfully argued that the money they collect from governments for holding prisoners is essentially rent. Companies that operate cellphone towers have said that the towers themselves are real estate.

The conversions generally do not require the companies to change their underlying business. The chief executive of the Corrections Corporation, Damon T. Hininger, told investors in February that the new structure should help in the company’s aim of “housing more and more population for federal, state and local levels as they grow or deal with overcrowding.”

The I.R.S. released its latest decision, allowing a data and document storage company to convert, on April 5. The letter did not include the name of the company, but several data storage companies, including Iron Mountain and , are in the process of converting.

A few days later, a strategist at the Wall Street firm Jefferies wrote in a report: “It is not a far stretch to envision REITs concentrated in railroads, highways, mines, landfills, vineyards, farmland or any other ‘immovable’ structure that generates revenues.”

Today, there are more than 1,000 real estate investment trusts, about 10 percent of them traded publicly on the stock market. Investors like them because, by law, they must distribute at least 90 percent of their taxable income to their shareholders — a particularly alluring prospect today, given the low interest rates paid by many other basic investments.

The benefits of converting are obvious for stockholders and corporate insiders as well. The conversion typically drives up a company’s stock price. Investors are drawn by the prospect of lucrative dividends under the new structure. The mere rumor that a company might convert has been enough to send its stock price soaring.

The trend has been a concern to advocates of the traditional trusts, who fear that the newcomers may eventually jeopardize the tax status of older funds that do not do any business other than owning real estate.

“I worry that in a world where Congress is very sensitive to taxes, that a lot of these structures could end up attracting a lot of attention that might not be entirely positive,” said Ross L. Smotrich, an analyst at .

Steven Rosenthal, a staff member at the Joint Committee on Taxation during the 1990s and now a visiting fellow at the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center, said that the trend raises questions about the purpose of corporate income taxes at a time when there are so many ways around them. The conversions are one of many strategies that businesses use to avoid paying the corporate tax rate of 35 percent.

“What is there about a business owning real estate that suggests we should not tax them?” Mr. Rosenthal said.

Some Congressional staff members said they had noticed the recent conversions and were monitoring the issue.

This is not the first wave of companies seeking out a new type of corporate status to avoid taxes. In the 1980s, dozens of companies, including Sahara Resorts and the , became master limited partnerships, another corporate form that is tax-exempt. After the practice attracted notice, Congress passed laws that limited the industries that could use the structure. In the 1990s, hotel companies took advantage of the laws, but a change to the laws in 1999 soon snuffed that out.

It is too soon to tell how far the current round of conversions will spread. recently counted 20 companies that are at some stage in the process of converting, and there has been a steady stream of suggestions for what industry might next secure I.R.S. approval.

Lawyers have also been finding creative ways to follow the letter of the law by splitting off parts of a company into subsidiaries that can be taxed. In the legal world, the most controversial such effort is being undertaken by Penn National, the casino company. It won approval from the I.R.S. late last year to turn itself into a real estate holding company. In the process, it created a tax-paying subsidiary that holds the casino operations and pays rent to the parent company.

Mr. O’Brien, at Deloitte & Touche, said he has been talking with other casino operators that are looking at making similar moves. The ruling could also open the door for restaurant companies like and retailers like to follow a similar route, though neither company has indicated it is considering such a move.

For now, companies like the Corrections Corporation are quickly moving through the process.

“The good news about this is that we are going to be able to enjoy a full year of tax savings for 2013,” Mr. Hininger, the chief executive, said in February. Last week, the company’s share price hit its highest level in over a decade.
552 2013-04-22 “The new iPads are a huge aesthetic improvement over our old clunky plastic registers,” said Kristina McDonnell, Molly Moon’s director of operations, who ordered the stands from Tinkering Monkey, an Oakland, Calif., studio.

Cash registers have gone through many mutations since they were first introduced in the late 1800s by an Ohio merchant looking to combat employee theft. They were electrified in the early 20th century, and more recently, got touch-screen displays.

Less has changed about their looks, however. Registers have remained a hulking presence — “always industrial and ugly,” said Kirthi Kalyanam, a professor at the Leavey School of Business at Santa Clara University.

In addition to being more attractive, the new registers are more flexible and user-friendly, like the ones at Coco Donuts. By putting the registers on the wall, the store’s owner, Ian Christopher, freed up counter space for coffee drinks and doughnuts.

And along with the new physical designs are new payment technologies that turn mobile devices into registers on the fly. The most prominent of these — a card reader, app and payment system from the San Francisco company Square — turns the earphone port of certain tablets or smartphones into a credit card reader.

For a small merchant like Mr. Christopher, it’s not only convenient, but also saves him about 20 percent on credit card transaction fees compared with his old system.

At the Devil’s Teeth Baking Company in San Francisco’s outer Sunset neighborhood, a local carpenter made a stand for the store’s iPad out of wood and welded steel, with a base that is secured to a butcher block counter over a cash box. The industrial-looking contraption swivels around on a steel joint to face customers when they need to sign the screen.

“Four times a day, someone asks us where the stand comes from,” said Hilary Cherniss, owner of the bakery.

Meanwhile, on Etsy, the online marketplace for handmade goods, Rob Redick sells iPad cash register stands made out of pieces of transparent acrylic, between which he can sandwich customized designs featuring merchant logos.

So far, the iPad has a big lead on other tablets that are being repurposed as cash registers, although companies like GoPago are promoting alternatives that use Google’s Android technology.

Eventually, the need for receipt printers and cash drawers may vanish entirely as electronic payments through smartphones and other devices become commonplace.

Wal-Mart recently expanded a program that lets customers scan the bar codes on merchandise using their iPhone cameras so they can skip conventional cash registers.

Some designers believe conventional cash registers interfere with the relationship between customers and sales people.

“From a design point of view, it’s a disaster, and from a retail point of view, it’s a disaster because employees are standing behind these refrigerators,” said Dean Heckler, who owns his own design firm in Phoenix.

To help the cash register fade from view, Mr. Heckler has created a steel sliver of a stand for the iPad, called the WindFall, that sits low on a counter. It can be bolted onto a surface to prevent theft and pivot around to face customers.

Sales associates in Apple’s own retail stores carry iPod Touches that are outfitted with credit card readers. Nordstrom, the apparel retailer, is also phasing out cash registers in all of its 240 stores and instead using iPod Touches to process payments from customers as they’re sitting in the shoe department or in a dressing room.

Merchants are also catching on that they can use iPads and other mobile devices untethered from counters for “line-busting,” in which cashiers approach people in a queue to take orders for food or merchandise. That improves service while making it less likely that those customers will leave since they have already paid.

The business of making iPad registers is so early that there is plenty of room for handcrafted designs.

In a workshop in San Diego, the Happy Owl Studio makes the Cashbox, a $1,500 iPad register, made of bamboo in amber and other shades.“A lot of people look at it and say it looks steam-punkish,” said Devon Read, chief executive of the studio, which has sold several dozen Cashboxes.

Parlin Jessen, co-owner of a Fiji Yogurt shop in San Diego, says his Cashbox gets a lot of attention. “Everyone asks, ‘Where did you get this?’ ” he said. Although there’s nothing preventing cashiers from goofing off on the store’s iPad by playing Angry Birds or checking e-mail, Mr. Jessen said the prospect bothers him less than the alternative.

“It would be better that they’re doing it on a supposed cash register instead of a phone,” he said. “At least that way, it looks like they’re doing work.”
553 2013-04-22 There have been accusations of racism and sweetheart deals, secret meetings and influence-peddling in Helena, the state capital. Lawsuits have been threatened. Competing Web sites have sprung up. Some farmers have refused to sell oats to those on the other side of the argument.

For months, local newspapers have published letters from people who support the water deal — known as a compact — and from opponents who see it as a power play by the tribes to seize a scarce and precious resource from largely non-Indian farmers and water users.

The proposed compact is 1,400 pages long, a decade in the making and bewilderingly complex. Essentially, it helps to lay out the water rights of the tribe and water users like farmers and ranchers. It provides $55 million in state money to upgrade the reservation’s water systems. And it settles questions about water claims that go back to 1855, when the government guaranteed the tribes wide-reaching fishing rights across much of western Montana.

The tribes say they have given up claims to millions of gallons of water to reach the deal. They say it is the only way to avoid expensive legal battles that could tie up the state’s western water resources in court for decades to come.

But the deal has rankled farmers and ranchers on the reservation, who fear they could lose half the water they need to grow wheat and hay and to water their cattle. Under the compact, each year farmers and ranchers would get 456,400 gallons of water for every acre they irrigate. Tribal officials say that is more than enough, but farmers say the sandy soil is just too thirsty. They fear they will be left dry.

“They’ve literally thrown us under the bus, and we’ve had to fight this thing ourselves,” said Jerry Laskody, who has joined a group of farmers and ranchers in opposing any deal. The group has held meetings and taken out advertisements to spread the word.

As visitors drive onto the reservation, a bright orange billboard declares, “Your Water & Property Rights Are in Jeopardy.” The pact has also angered some conservative residents around the valley, who accuse the tribe and Montana officials of colluding in what they characterize as legalized theft.

“There’s a lot of coercion, a lot of threats,” said Michael Gale, who retired here looking for beauty, and has spent hundreds of hours attending meetings, writing letters and poring over documents in the hope of killing the compact. “Like they always say: Whiskey’s for drinking. Water’s for fighting.”

At the heart of the dispute is a question that has haunted the United States’ relations with indigenous people for centuries and provoked countless killings, dislocations, treaties and court battles: Who has a claim to the land and its resources?

It is an emotional issue, especially here.

In the early 1900s, the federal government opened up millions of acres on the Flathead and other reservations to white homesteaders, a decision that echoes today across the Great Plains and the West. Tribal members were allotted specific parcels, and the rest was put up for sale. Homesteaders came in droves, to stake farms, open sawmills and grocery stores, plant wheat and build roads.

Within a decade, settlers outnumbered tribal members on the Flathead. Today, resorts and million-dollar homes line the shores of Flathead Lake, the reservation’s largest body of water. Of the reservation’s more than 28,000 residents, about 7,000 are American Indians, according to census data.

“We are minorities on our homeland,” said Mr. McDonald, the communications director.

Over the years, tribal members married homesteaders’ children. Families blended. Children from Salish and Kootenai families attended the same schools as those who had moved in from Missoula or Washington State. Residents say that today, the bonds and friendships are wide and deep.

Until they are not. A report by the Montana Human Rights Network once described the reservation as home to “the most aggressive anti-Indian activity in Montana” because of its patchwork settlement. Conflicts have flared over tribal control of a major dam on Flathead Lake, and over whether tribal police officers should be able to arrest or detain non-Indians on the reservation. In the late 1980s, a dispute over hunting and fishing regulations led to screaming matches and death threats.

“They painted their fence posts orange and let it be known they’d shoot you if you walked on their land,” said Joe McDonald, who for nearly three decades was the president of Salish Kootenai College here on the reservation.

This time, the fight appears bound for court. After years of public meetings and deliberation, the full compact finally arrived in the Montana State Capitol this spring. It was supported by the state’s first-term governor, Steve Bullock, a Democrat, as well as by some Republican lawmakers from the area. But with farmers showing up to denounce the compact measure, the Republican-led Legislature killed the bill.

For Susan and Jack Lake, that decision cast a shadow over their potatoes. Mr. Lake’s family moved here from Idaho in 1934. Today, the family farms 1,000 acres, 85 percent of it irrigated. They grow seed potatoes that are ultimately used to make chips and instant mashed potatoes.

The Lakes agonized over the water deal, but eventually decided to support it. They worried about losing water, but said that going to court against a tribe with older, stronger claims to the reservation’s water supplies felt like a suicide mission.

Sometimes, Ms. Lake said, it just felt absurd: so many years of tangled fights over something so simple and pure.

“It’s beautiful,” she said. “You turn it on and make things grow.”
554 2013-04-22 The troubadour wielding a stringed instrument and singing praises, dance tunes, love songs, histories or wry comments is a nearly universal figure in traditional music, from Appalachian banjo pickers to Moroccan gnawa musicians to West African griots to Japanese minyo singers. Kong Nay, who performed at the Asia Society on Saturday night, is one of them, playing the Cambodian style called chapei: singing in a hearty voice and playing the chapei dang weng, a long-necked, two-stringed lute.

Chapei is a sparse, open, toe-tapping style. Mr. Kong sang forthright modal melodies, propelled from the downbeat and embellished with quavers and slides. He plucked a steady rhythm, meanwhile, with a repeating note on one string while the other carried a melody line: sharing it with the voice and sometimes answering a vocal line with an instrumental refrain. The modes and inflections were Southeast Asian, but the folky tunes were homey and direct.

The Asia Society projected some of the lyrics overhead; in various songs Mr. Kong invoked Buddhist deities, praised a mother’s sacrifices, celebrated dancing and hoped to find a “new soul mate” on the dance floor; “My old one should not have jilted me,” he sang in “Rom Vong.” Mr. Kong also improvised some verses that drew laughter from Cambodians in the audience.

His upbeat music is an ancient tradition — one endangered by the cultural genocide of the Khmer Rouge in the 1970s, who starved and executed an estimated 90 percent of Cambodia’s artists and intellectuals. Mr. Kong, who is in his late 60s and has been blind since childhood, is one of the rare survivors among his generation of master musicians. He appeared as part of the citywide Season of Cambodia series, which is celebrating the preservation and progress of Cambodian culture.

Mr. Kong played the first part of the concert solo. Then he was joined by a jazz group, the Ben Allison trio, with Mr. Allison on bass, Marc Ribot on guitar and Rudy Royston on drums. Mr. Allison remarked that when he first heard Mr. Kong’s music he thought, “It just feels like the blues to me” — another troubadour tradition. In one song Mr. Kong declaimed, “Though we can’t speak a common language, our music does for us.”

It was a congenial fusion. The trio added a jovial bustle to the songs while respecting Mr. Kong’s clear beat; at one point Mr. Ribot tried to add some lead-guitar counterpoint to Mr. Kong’s pithy melodies, but wisely backed off. And in “Arapiya” the group heard compatible chords that fit Mr. Kong’s melody and unchanging bass note; the Cambodian tune tilted toward hand-clapping country, hinting at “You Are My Sunshine.” The song was about dancing “to the rocking music” on a Saturday night; it was a neat cross-cultural fit.
555 2013-04-22 Keiji Haino lives among the class of improvisers who roam so far from what we usually call form — meaning, basically, rules — that they make you question whether what they’re doing is music. When you arrive at that question, generally, the joke’s on you. If you feel nothing for the music, you can walk away. If you feel something for it, you may start to notice that it possesses its own unity, its own rules. Anyway, it’s not Mr. Haino’s problem. “I am not an anarchist,” he has said. “I am anarchy.”

In America, where he performs infrequently, he’s mostly been known for playing electric guitar loudly and singing gesturally, charismatically, in Japanese or with wordless sounds: sometimes solo, and often as part of a kind of free-rock, pan-tonal power trio called Fushitsusha. (Now 60, Mr. Haino was imprinted by American psychedelic music — Blue Cheer especially — while growing up in Japan; hence his long hair and bangs, all-black clothes and sunglasses, his Gibson SG, his amps set at liquefaction level.) Clearly he’s interested in the brute force of sound, and the prime engine of that interest has seemed to be the guitar.

This past week, thanks to Issue Project Room and the Whitney Museum of American Art, Mr. Haino played three times in New York. The first performance, on Wednesday, at Issue Project’s small and high-ceilinged Downtown Brooklyn space, didn’t involve guitar at all, yet it was the loudest performance of his I’ve ever seen, and one of the best. Let me phrase that in another way: One of the loudest performances by anyone I’ve seen in a long time, and one of the best.

Mr. Haino, small and thin, moves like a teenager, fast and abruptly, with clarity. He made his way to a pair of microphones and began singing in a falsetto through churchy, semi-medieval modes, but the modes became compromised and discontinuous, and so did the basic blocks of sound he made: sometimes his voice squeaked, pushed as high as it could go, or gave out and turned into exhaling.

Next, he started reaching the bottom of his voice — not quite throat-singing, but close. He put a small microphone inside his mouth and sat in a chair, continuing his low grunting breaths: giant, immersive, underwater nimbuses, with vibrato at the end. Then — quickly! — he jumped up to another standing microphone, where he began a weird sonic compound of murder and prayer: penetrating shrieks, steadying purrs. Extremely loud. Understand? I’ll say it again: extremely loud.

Continuing his long, low tones, he turned on an oscillator box and moved over to three small machines on a desk: they were airSynths, made by Alesis, sort of digital theremins with more options, and they produced dirty, thick, distorted, guitarlike tones. For a while he waved his hands over and around them, almost dancing, changing the width and layering of the sound; then he returned to the microphone, shrieking more heavily and gutturally, curling down to the floor and shaking. And then, as if he really did care about rules, he went back to the churchlike falsetto, tying up 75 minutes or so as beautifully as anyone could. It had been aggressive, centered, thorough and mysterious. The joke was on you.
556 2013-04-23 He browsed the books like a giant looking for something to read. Some were small enough to fit into a fold of his hand. Many of the books were illegibly small, and he didn&#x2019;t know what they were all about. But reading them was never the poin...
557 2013-04-23 Marvin Tolkin was 83 when he decided that the unexamined life wasn&#x2019;t worth living. Until then, it had never occurred to him that there might be emotional &#x201C;issues&#x201D; he wanted to explore with a counselor.&#xa;   &#xa;&#x201C;I do...
558 2013-04-23 High levels of cortisol &#x2014; the so-called stress hormone &#x2014; have been associated with cardiovascular disease in some studies, but not in others. This may be because measuring cortisol in blood or saliva at one point in time may pick up ...
559 2013-04-23 7:35 p.m. | Updated  Standard  Poor&#x2019;s, accused of inflating its ratings to win business during the boom in mortgage investments, urged a judge on Monday to dismiss the federal government&#x2019;s civil case against it, saying the Justice De...
560 2013-04-23 The new Broadway musical &#x201C;Matilda,&#x201D; which arrived from London this spring with exceedingly high expectations &#x2013; and opened April 11 to some of the  best reviews  of the season &#x2013; joined the million-dollar club of top-sell...
561 2013-04-23 Apple’s huge gift to investors has at least one big fan: David Einhorn, the prominent hedge fund manager who took on the company over its payouts to shareholders....
562 2013-04-23 The Times’s David E. Sanger on what the Obama administration is looking for before it moves on intelligence suggesting that President Bashar al-Assad of Syria used chemical weapons.
563 2013-04-23 Despite the attention-grabbing numbers, the iPad maker could quickly replace the withdrawal from its cash hoard, which now totals $145 billion....
564 2013-04-23 Apple iPhone 4 owners began receiving $15 checks in the mail Tuesday as a result of a class action settled by the company last year....
565 2013-04-23 What should we call the midday market freakout related to The A.P.’s hacked Twitter feed?...
566 2013-04-23 The Twitter account for The Associated Press was hacked on Tuesday and erroneously sent out a tweet saying there had been explosions at the White House, injuring President Obama....
567 2013-04-23 The latest deals for Thailand’s richest man, Dhanin Chearavanont, only make sense as long as Southeast Asia’s financial boom keeps the cash flowing, the author writes....
568 2013-04-23 Bayern Munich’s acquisition of midfielder Mario Götze dominated the news in Germany on Tuesday....
569 2013-04-23 Coverage and live analysis of the first leg of the Barcelona-Bayern Munich Champions League semifinal....
570 2013-04-23 A.T.M. fees are generally highest in areas of little competition, like airports or amusement parks....
571 2013-04-23 Brian Hare, an associate professor at Duke University, has created a new method to research dog behavior, using the Internet and citizen science.
572 2013-04-23 Among the 26 incumbent senators who will face elections next year, there was a near perfect relationship between their states’ rates of gun ownership and their votes on the background check amendment....
573 2013-04-23 The Blackstone Group will buy Strategic Partners, a private equity business owned by Credit Suisse that specializes in buying stakes in funds from other investors. The unit has $9 billion of assets under management....
574 2013-04-23 The sharp slide in the price of gold has led to much hand-wringing but should cause little surprise....
575 2013-04-23 Many Chinese netizens were unimpressed by a state report criticizing the U.S. human rights situation, which focused on gun violence, among other things....
576 2013-04-23 The Atlantic Coast Conference presidents have agreed for the league to retain media rights for a university that leaves the conference. The A.C.C. said each of the current and future universities has signed the deal, which is effective immediately. The grant of rights would appear to make the league more stable by essentially locking all 15 universities into the A.C.C. through the length of a TV deal, including the new arrivals Pittsburgh, Syracuse, Notre Dame and Louisville.
577 2013-04-23 The two men appeared in quick succession, a police lineup turned on its head. The men were police officers, ordered to a courtroom on Monday so a witness could identify them as the officers who had stopped and frisked him.

The unusual scene underscored an emerging theme in the stop-and-frisk trial under way in Federal District Court in Manhattan: for those stopped and frisked, the experience is an ordeal they will long remember. But for the officers, it can be a nonevent, as their inability to recall these encounters shows.

Over the last month, a number of officers called to the stand have struggled to remember the precise details of street encounters that happened as long as five years ago. Indeed, forgetfulness has taunted the trial at nearly every turn, frustrating efforts to determine what really happened during many of the police stops that are the foundation of a case examining the constitutionality of the Police Department’s tactics.

On Monday, forgetfulness itself was at issue. Judge Shira A. Scheindlin ordered the two officers, Sgt. James Mahoney and Detective Scott Giacona, back to court. The officers were accused of stopping a witness, Leroy Downs, on Staten Island in 2008, but they had previously claimed under oath that they had no recollection of stopping him.

On Friday, the judge raised the possibility of a perjury prosecution stemming from the Downs stop. “Somebody may not be testifying completely accurately under oath, and I’m troubled,” she said.
578 2013-04-23 The federal agent who posed as a businessman in order to investigate the campaign financing of John C. Liu, the New York City comptroller, said on Monday that his superiors had prematurely ended the undercover operation, even though he felt there were indications that campaign officials were involved in irregularities.

“The undercover operation could have gone on further,” the special agent, John Chiue, testified. He acknowledged sending an e-mail to a colleague, saying, “Everything points to the next level.”

Agent Chiue testified in Federal District Court in Manhattan in the trial of two of Mr. Liu’s former associates: Jia Hou, a former campaign treasurer, and Xing Wu Pan, a fund-raiser. Both are charged with conspiring in an illegal scheme to funnel money to Mr. Liu’s campaign through so-called straw donors; they have each pleaded not guilty. Mr. Liu, a Democrat who is now running for mayor, has not been charged with wrongdoing.

“I believe I was doing a good job,” said Agent Chiue, of the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Houston division, “but people above me, above my pay scale, they made the decision to terminate the undercover operation. And as an agent, I must abide by my management’s decision.”

The government played a series of audio and video recordings last week for the jury, in which Agent Chiue played the role of Richard Kong, a Texan who wanted to open restaurants in New York. The recordings show him meeting with Mr. Pan and agreeing to contribute $16,000 — exceeding the $4,950 legal limit — to the campaign, through a group of 20 straw donors, at a fund-raiser Mr. Pan would organize in August 2011.
579 2013-04-23 But Mr. Havens played 10 songs, including Beatles songs. His impassioned improvisation was pitch perfect for the generation watching him, most of whom saw it later in a documentary on the festival. His clarion encore “Freedom” — made up on the spot and interspersed with the spiritual “Motherless Child” — sounded a powerful if wistful note.

“ ‘Freedom’ came from a totally spontaneous place,” Mr. Havens said.

Richard Pierce Havens was born on Jan. 21, 1941, in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn, where he grew up. He was the eldest of nine children. His father made Formica tables for a living and played piano with various bands. His mother worked for a bookbindery.

He began singing with street-corner doo-wop groups when he was about 12. At 14 he joined the McCrea Gospel Singers. He was recruited by a street gang, and he dropped out of high school. He spent the rest of his life educating himself, and was proud of the results.

In his late teens Mr. Havens migrated to Greenwich Village, where he wandered the clubs working as a portrait artist. After a few years he discovered folk music, and he was soon playing several engagements a night at clubs like Why Not? and the Fat Black Pussycat.

His hands were very large, which made it difficult to play the guitar. He developed an unorthodox tuning so he could play chord patterns not possible with conventional tunings. The style was picked up by other folk and blues singers.

“A person looking at him might think he was just flailing about,” the guitarist Barry Oliver said in the magazine Guitar Player. “But the way he flailed about was so musical, and it went perfectly with what he was portraying. He’s a good example of not having to have to be a technically perfect guitarist in order to come across.”

Mr. Havens signed with the influential manager Albert Grossman and got a record deal with the Verve Forecast label. Verve released “Mixed Bag” in 1967, which featured “Handsome Johnny,” which he wrote with the actor Louis Gossett Jr.; “Follow,” which became one of his signature songs; and a cover of Bob Dylan’s “Just Like a Woman.”

In 1971, he released the only single that would put him in the Top 20, a soulful rendition of George Harrison’s “Here Comes the Sun.” His music had a new burst of popularity in the 1980s, and he found success as a jingle writer and performer for Amtrak, Maxwell House Coffee and the cotton industry (“The fabric of our lives”). He acted in a few movies, including “Hearts of Fire” (1987), which starred Bob Dylan.

Mr. Havens devoted considerable energy to educating young people on ecological issues. In the mid-1970s he founded the Northwind Undersea Institute, an oceanographic children’s museum on City Island in the Bronx. He later created the Natural Guard, an environmental organization for children, to use hands-on methods to teach about the environment.

This seriousness of purpose showed in many areas of his life. “I’m not in show business,” he said. “I’m in the communications business.”

Carrie Lombardi, Mr. Havens’s publicist, said his family wanted to keep information about survivors private, but she did say that they include three daughters, five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. He was married many years ago.

Mr. Havens played many songs written by Mr. Dylan, and he spent three days learning his epic “A Hard Rain’s A-Gonna Fall.” A man who heard him practicing it stopped him on the stairs as he headed for the dressing room of a nightclub, and told him it was the best he’d ever heard the song sung.

“That’s how I first met Bob Dylan,” Mr. Havens said.
580 2013-04-23 Mr. Leb did not respond to phone messages left on Monday. His lawyer, Joseph Conway, noted, “As far as his record, he has no criminal convictions.” He acknowledged, however, that Mr. Leb submitted to probation in the battery case, and in the case of impersonating an officer, Mr. Leb surrendered his gun license, lights and siren.

So Mr. Leb is not a likely candidate for businessman of the year. But he has mastered the social skill of ingratiating himself with top police brass.

He is a police buff (the “Duke of Buffdom,” according to Leonard Levitt, who writes the essential NYPD Confidential Web site). Mr. Leb once helped run the Finest Foundation, which gave lavish dinners known as “Chief’s Night at the Plaza,” for a beribboned crew of senior cops. He handed an award one year to Police Commissioner (now a felon serving time), and another year to former First Deputy Commissioner .

I spoke on Monday with Mr. Mansfield, the former commissioner, who once headed the public corruption bureau for the district attorney. He insisted that Mr. Leb’s background was far less important than that of the two former high-ranking police officials who wrote the report for Global Consulting L.L.C.: former Deputy Chief Thomas Belfiore and Joseph Dunne, who, as you will recall, years earlier accepted an award from Mr. Leb.

Mr. Dunne and Mr. Belfiore now run the police force at the Port Authority.

“The credentials of the two individuals were above reproach,” Mr. Mansfield said. “The firm they were associated with was somewhat irrelevant.”

The Business Integrity Commission sent out a press release at 6 p.m. on Monday making the same point. Essentially, it said: Please look at all those highly credentialed former top cops! Please don’t look at the owners of the firm!

These are very curious answers. The Business Integrity Commission was chartered in 2001 to ferret out corruption and wrongdoing. Because many of its contractors are not publicly listed in city databases, trust might be seen as woven into the agency’s compact with the public.

The Hunts Point Cooperative Association unearthed some of this information and filed a lawsuit against the city on Monday. It notes that the Business Integrity Commission required each firm to submit a list of bona fides: A description of the owners, their work history and a sample of relevant major projects that the firm had completed.

Global Consulting L.L.C. appears to have pulled up well short of that goal line. Not that it mattered. The commission sent a letter to Global Consulting L.L.C. that somewhat improbably noted: “Your firm’s impressive qualifications place it among a handful of firms” for consideration.

I asked the Business Integrity Commission if anyone had scrutinized the firm’s owner. A city spokesman replied only that commission began with 75 firms and winnowed those down to — voilà! — the company owned by Mr. Leb.

There is, I should note, a subtext to this fight. The produce cooperative has been based in Hunts Point since 1967 and records about $2.3 billion in annual sales and employs more than 3,500 workers. Their relationship with the city is often fractious, and now and again it threatens to bolt to .

This is not a singular case for the commission, where no-bid, zero-transparency contracts seem distressingly common. When he was commissioner, Mr. Mansfield awarded a $300,000 no-bid contract to T&M Protection Resources, to monitor the Hunts Point Terminal Fish Market. The chairman and chief executive of that company, Robert S. Tucker, had worked with Mr. Mansfield in the Queens district attorney’s office.

A year or two later, Mr. Mansfield resigned as commissioner and became a vice president at T&M. That move does not violate city conflict-of-interest rules.

“There is,” Mr. Mansfield noted about the Global Consulting contract, “no requirement at the commission that it go out for competitive bid. There’s an internal review process.”

That explanation seems likely to stand. Anything more is lost in the Integrity Commission murk.
581 2013-04-23 Quarterly revenue topped $1 billion for the first time, largely because the company continued to add subscribers to its streaming service quickly; it gained about two million such subscribers in the United States in the first quarter. After the subscriber data was released, analysts rushed to note that Netflix, with 29.2 million such subscribers, had apparently surpassed HBO.

Michael Olson, an analyst at Piper Jaffray, also pointed out that Netflix’s two million new subscribers beat industry expectations of about 1.7 million. “It appears original programming may be driving better subscriber numbers,” he said. “At the least, we believe original exclusive programming is reducing subscriber churn.”

While HBO, a unit of Time Warner, does not publish detailed subscriber data, the research firm SNL Kagan estimated that the cable channel had 28.7 million subscribers at the end of 2012.

There are, however, some big differences between the two companies. HBO is part of the cable bundle, while Netflix is a stand-alone service with both streaming and DVD-by-mail options. HBO declined to comment on the subscriber competition on Monday.

In a letter to shareholders, Reed Hastings, Netflix’s chief executive, and David Wells, its chief financial officer, didn’t mention HBO, as they have in the past. Instead they praised “House of Cards,” the series starring Kevin Spacey and Robin Wright that made its debut in February and was described by critics as something that would fit HBO or its cable rival Showtime.

“The launch of ‘House of Cards’ provided a halo effect on our entire service,” Mr. Hastings and Mr. Wells wrote. Although the two men did not share ratings for the show, they said the subscriber reaction “increased our confidence in our ability to pick shows Netflix members will embrace and to pick partners skilled at delivering a great series.”

Because all 13 episodes of the series were posted online on the same day, there was some concern that new subscribers would not remain after watching them. But the company said it found fewer than 8,000 cases where people signed up, watched “House of Cards” and then canceled their subscriptions.

Netflix has cautioned investors and reporters that its original shows, while highly visible, are not a huge part of its content expenses or its total viewing time. But the shows do exemplify how Netflix and HBO are increasingly competing for actors, directors and creative ideas, not to mention viewer attention.

Netflix’s second entry, a horror series from Eli Roth titled “Hemlock Grove,” received mixed reviews, but according to Mr. Hastings and Mr. Wells’s letter it was “viewed by more members globally in its first weekend than was ‘House of Cards’ and has been a particular hit among young adults.”

Its third series, a 15-episode revival of the Fox sitcom “Arrested Development,” will go online on Memorial Day weekend in May. The company says it expects the highly anticipated series to draw new subscribers in what is typically a weak quarter.

It predicted that it would end the second quarter with about 29.4 million to 30.05 million streaming subscribers in the United States. In an improvement over analysts’ prior forecasts, it projected earnings in the second quarter of 23 to 48 cents a share.

The company’s executives seem to be girding themselves for the possibility — or the inevitability — that some of its series will be flops.

On Monday they took a long-term view, stating that the value of the original series would be “borne out as we add more seasons of already popular shows like ‘House of Cards’ and further series.”

“ ‘Harry Potter’ was not a phenomenon in Book 1, compared to later books in the series,” Mr. Hastings and Mr. Wells added.

Netflix stock, which closed at $174.37 before the earnings announcement, surged by more than 25 percent afterward. By 5:30 p.m. it was trading at $216.40.
582 2013-04-23 Investigators have not found ricin or ingredients for it in the house or vehicle of a Corinth man accused of mailing poisoned letters to President Obama, a senator and a local judge, an F.B.I. agent testified Monday. A search of a computer belonging to the man, Paul K. Curtis, found no evidence that he researched making ricin, Agent Brandon Grant said. Through his lawyer, Mr. Curtis has denied involvement, and his lawyer said he may have been framed.
583 2013-04-23 Five people were killed and 15 injured when an S.U.V. packed with 20 immigrants from Mexico and Guatemala flipped over as it fled the Border Patrol, the authorities said. The vehicle wrecked Saturday night while exiting Interstate 10 about 20 miles east of Tucson, a State Department of Public Safety spokesman, Bart Graves, said Monday. Border Patrol agents were about a quarter-mile behind it when the crash occurred on the off-ramp to State Route 83, the department said. “The driver obviously got nervous and decided to try to elude them,” Mr. Graves said. Investigators believed the passengers had entered the United States illegally, he said. Thirteen of the injured were found at the scene, while two others ran off and were apprehended several miles away, he said.
584 2013-04-23 Twitter continued its march into the advertising world with the news on Monday that the social media company had signed a deal with one of the largest advertising agencies in the world, the Starcom MediaVest Group, part of Publicis Groupe.

The multiyear deal, its value estimated to be in the hundreds of millions of dollars, comes at the beginning of the upfront season, the annual series of meetings where networks introduce their new offerings to advertisers and media buyers. The deal was first reported by The Financial Times.

“This is what the company has been talking about for really the last year,” said Laura Desmond, the global chief executive of the Starcom MediaVest Group. “We’re into a new marketing era. It’s the era of convergence, across all screens.” Ms. Desmond said that many of the agency’s clients, including Samsung and Tide, had been experimenting with Twitter over the last 18 months.

According to Adam Bain, the president for global revenue at Twitter, the deal will include a virtual lab where the two companies will conduct research that will help advertisers “connect Twitter and TV together.”

The companies will combine some of the resources they use for measuring and tracking data and advertising. The social networking site has become a popular platform with TV viewers who use it to connect in real time with others who are watching the same content. Marketers are eagerly trying to capitalize on those “second screen” viewers.

“We think everybody in digital has been making a poor mistake in trying to decide between Twitter or TV,” Mr. Bain said of advertisers. “The two work really well together.” The research company eMarketer has estimated that Twitter’s ad revenue for 2012 was $288 million.
585 2013-04-23 Teams of Boeing engineers and technicians began fanning out across the globe on Monday to modify the battery systems of the company’s 50 grounded 787 Dreamliner jets to expedite getting the planes back in the air.

The teams were dispatched after the Federal Aviation Administration last Friday approved Boeing’s plans to install modification kits intended to reduce the risk of overheating in the planes’ lithium-ion batteries. The planes have been grounded for three months, since one of the lightweight batteries erupted in fire and another emitted smoke on separate planes in January.

A team of about 30 technicians arrived in Japan over the weekend and began work early Monday, Larry Loftis, vice president and general manager of the 787 program, said in a telephone briefing with reporters.

All Nippon Airways and Japan Air Lines are the biggest operators of the Dreamliner, with 24 of the planes between them, and were the first to fly the jets in 2011. They were also the airlines that had the problems with the 787 batteries.

“We are modifying in the order in which we delivered” the planes, Mr. Loftis said. He added that Japanese regulators had approved the installation of the kits, although they had not yet formally validated the F.A.A.’s safety certification of the modifications.
586 2013-04-23 She is not alone in looking to leave. Some middle- and upper-class Chinese parents and expatriates have already begun leaving China, a trend that executives say could result in a huge loss of talent and experience. Foreign parents are also turning down prestigious jobs or negotiating for hardship pay from their employers, citing the pollution.

There are no statistics for the flight, and many people are still eager to come work in Beijing, but talk of leaving is gaining urgency around the capital and on Chinese microblogs and parenting forums. Chinese are also discussing holidays to what they call the “clean-air destinations” of Tibet, Hainan and Fujian.

“I’ve been here for six years and I’ve never seen anxiety levels the way they are now,” said Dr. Richard Saint Cyr, a new father and a family health doctor at Beijing United Family Hospital, whose patients are half Chinese and half foreigners. “Even for me, I’ve never been as anxious as I am now. It has been extraordinarily bad.”

He added: “Many mothers, especially, have been second-guessing their living in Beijing. I think many mothers are fed up with keeping their children inside.”

Few developments have eroded trust in the Communist Party as quickly as the realization that the leaders have failed to rein in threats to children’s health and safety. There was national outrage in 2008 after more than 5,000 children were killed when their schools collapsed in an earthquake, and hundreds of thousands were sickened and six infants died in a tainted-formula scandal. Officials tried to suppress angry parents, sometimes by force or with payoffs.

But the fury over air pollution is much more widespread and is just beginning to gain momentum.

“I don’t trust the pollution measurements of the Beijing government,” said Ms. Zhang’s father, Zhang Xiaochuan, a retired newspaper administrator.

Scientific studies justify fears of long-term damage to children and fetuses. A study published by The New England Journal of Medicine showed that children exposed to high levels of air pollution can suffer permanent lung damage. The research was done in the 1990s in Los Angeles, where levels of pollution were much lower than those in Chinese cities today.

A study by California researchers published last month suggested a link between autism in children and the exposure of pregnant women to traffic-related air pollution. Columbia University researchers, in a study done in New York, found that prenatal exposure to air pollutants could result in children with anxiety, depression and attention-span problems. Some of the same researchers found in an earlier study that children in Chongqing, China, who had prenatal exposure to high levels of air pollutants from a coal-fired plant were born with smaller head circumferences, showed slower growth and performed less well on cognitive development tests at age 2. The shutdown of the plant resulted in children born with fewer difficulties.

Analyses show little relief ahead if China does not change growth policies and strengthen environmental regulation. A Deutsche Bank report released in February said the current trends of coal use and automobile emissions meant air pollution was expected to worsen by an additional 70 percent by 2025.

Some children’s hospitals in northern China reported a large number of patients with respiratory illnesses this winter, when the air pollution soared. During one bad week in January, Beijing Children’s Hospital admitted up to 9,000 patients a day for emergency visits, half of them for respiratory problems, according to a report by Xinhua, the state news agency.

Parents have scrambled to buy air purifiers. IQAir, a Swiss company, makes purifiers that cost up to $3,000 here and are displayed in shiny showrooms. Mike Murphy, the chief executive of IQAir China, said sales had tripled in the first three months of 2013 over the same period last year.

Face masks are now part of the urban dress code. Ms. Zhang laid out half a dozen masks on her dining room table and held up one with a picture of a teddy bear that fits Xiaotian. Schools are adopting emergency measures. Xiaotian’s private kindergarten used to take the children on a field trip once a week, but it has canceled most of those this year.

At the prestigious Beijing No. 4 High School, which has long trained Chinese leaders and their children, outdoor physical education classes are now canceled when the pollution index is high.

“The days with blue sky and seemingly clean air are treasured, and I usually go out and do exercise,” said Dong Yifu, a senior there who was just accepted to Yale University.

Elite schools are investing in infrastructure to keep children active. Among them are Dulwich College Beijing and the International School of Beijing, which in January completed two large white sports domes of synthetic fabric that cover athletic fields and tennis courts.

The construction of the domes and an accompanying building began a year ago, to give the 1,900 students a place to exercise in both bad weather and high pollution, said Jeff Johanson, director of student activities. The project cost $5.7 million and includes hospital-grade air-filtration systems.

Teachers check the hourly air ratings from the United States Embassy to determine whether children should play outside or beneath the domes. “The elementary schoolchildren don’t miss recess anymore,” Mr. Johanson said.

One American mother, Tara Duffy, said she had chosen a prekindergarten school for her daughter in part because the school had air filters in the classrooms. The school, called the 3e International School, also brings in doctors to talk about pollution and bars the children from playing outdoors during increases in smog levels. “In the past six months, there have been a lot more ‘red flag’ days, and they keep the kids inside,” said Ms. Duffy, a writer and former foundation consultant.

Ms. Duffy said she also checked the daily air quality index to decide whether to take her daughter to an outdoor picnic or an indoor play space.

Now, after nine years here, Ms. Duffy is leaving China, and she cites the pollution and traffic as major factors.

That calculus is playing out with expatriates across Beijing, and even with foreigners outside China. One American couple with a young child discussed the pollution when considering a prestigious foundation job in Beijing, and it was among the reasons they turned down the offer.

James McGregor, a senior counselor in the Beijing office of APCO Worldwide, a consulting company, said he had heard of an American diplomat with young children who had turned down a posting here. That was despite the fact that the State Department provides a 15 percent salary bonus for Beijing that exists partly because of the pollution. The hardship bonus for other Chinese cities, which also suffer from awful air, ranges from 20 percent to 30 percent, except for Shanghai, where it is 10 percent.

“I’ve lived in Beijing 23 years, and my children were brought up here, but if I had young children I’d have to leave,” Mr. McGregor said. “A lot of people have started exit plans.”
587 2013-04-23 She, in a short later dream scene, finds herself alone amid a crowd, but then is rejoined with Romeo. As Friar Lawrence speaks to her of the potion’s effect, we see, through a curtain, her parents and Paris mourning a second Juliet, then Romeo arriving as she awakens.

The most heart-stopping touch of all is that, in the tomb scene, Juliet wakes a minute before Romeo dies from his potion’s effect; they dance together before she realizes that he is dying. She wastes no time in joining him in death, whereupon their bodies are found by Prince Escalus, the friar and their families, who, mourning, at last make peace.

Mr. Ratmansky employs multiple idioms: formal ballet mime (the ring finger to symbolize “marry,” the hand at the heart to communicate “love”); realistic acting (swordplay, brawling, kissing); character dancing (often in heeled shoes or boots); and academic ballet (at the end of the balcony scene Juliet, holding Romeo’s hand with her back to the audience, extends a leg grandly à la seconde, to the side).

And Mr. Ratmansky combines these different styles skillfully. When Tybalt fights his big duels with Mercutio and then the avenging Romeo, they include classical jumps and turns amid their naturalistic fighting, and yet they don’t look like ballet dancers reverting to type; the steps appear a spontaneous part of the rush of furious combat. Throughout, Mr. Ratmansky puts his faith in pure academic ballet steps to express emotion and character.

It’s a sign of Mr. Ratmansky’s eminence and skill that the only versions to which this one need be compared are those by four dead choreographers: Leonid Lavrovsky (1940), Frederick Ashton (1955), John Cranko (1962) and MacMillan (1965). This one has virtues several of those lack, but misses the sheer stylistic authority that any of those have exhibited at their best.

This “Romeo” is a guest choreographer’s production. Though it must have been prepared carefully and at length, and though the Canadian dancers acquit themselves well, you don’t sense the intensity of delivery that comes with a close collaboration between dancers and choreographer over a long period.

Romeo (especially), Mercutio, Benvolio and Paris all have solos of marvelous and intricate classical detail, full of changes of direction, beaten jumps and turns, to a dash so timed that they become full of heart and character. The melting end of a pirouette on one leg, the seamless connection of two apparently disparate steps, a jump that suddenly reverses a dance’s focus and brings both feet together in a soft landing: these are details that stay in the memory.

Mr. Côté and Mr. Ebe were both very fine as Romeo, effortlessly releasing one poetic flight after another. Mercutio tends to grin too unrelentingly, but Keiichi Hirano nonetheless characterized him vividly in Saturday evening’s cast.

There was much to admire in the Juliets of Ms. Ogden and Ms. Rodriguez, especially when dancing out perplexity and frustration in Act III. But the production’s two main weaknesses are that Mr. Ratmansky gives Juliet no special youthfulness or temper — she’s a generally polite young lady — and that his passages of close partnerwork for the lovers, though effectively rapturous, have no particular poetry.

By contrast, the crowd scenes — where most versions of “Romeo” lapse into cliché — are entirely fresh. The whole production confirms that Mr. Ratmansky is the most gifted choreographer specializing in classical ballet today. Yet you can’t help wanting him to stay in one spot with one company around the year and mold its dancers fully as expressive instruments.
588 2013-04-23 TOKYO — The operator of Japan’s stricken Fukushima nuclear plant should stop relying on stopgap measures and better prepare for the unexpected, the United Nations nuclear watchdog agency said Monday, even as a cooling system at the plant was once again shut down because of a dead rat.

A team from the International Atomic Energy Agency praised the operator, Tokyo Electric Power Company, for stabilizing the Fukushima Daiichi plant and making progress in the complex task of dismantling its three damaged nuclear reactors. A huge earthquake and tsunami two years ago knocked out the reactors’ cooling systems, causing their cores to melt down; the accident spewed radiation across northeastern Japan

Juan Carlos Lentijo, the director of the nuclear fuel cycle and waste technology division at the agency and the team’s leader, said that the company had accomplished the most urgent job, cooling the damaged reactors, in very difficult conditions of high radiation. However, he said, “there is still room for improvement.”

He said that while the company, called Tepco for short, has been working to make the plant safer, it was often doing so “with temporary systems or mobile systems — there is a need for more permanent systems.”

The makeshift nature of some of those cooling systems was exposed again on Monday when Tepco said it had temporarily switched off one of them after a dead rat was found nearby. The system was off for four hours while workers made sure there was no damage to electrical circuits.
589 2013-04-23 The company is benefiting from incentives provided by various states and the federal government, which offer tax credits and grants for installing natural gas fuel stations and using vehicles fueled by natural gas.

“By us doing this it will help pave the way and others will follow,” said Scott Wicker, chief sustainability officer at U.P.S.

“Moving into L.N.G. is a means to get us onto what we see as the bridging fuel of the future and off of oil,” he said. “It’s the right step for us, for our customers and for our planet.”

The move could also cut the country’s oil import bill. There are currently about eight million heavy and medium-weight trucks consuming three million barrels of oil a day while traveling the nation’s highways. That is nearly 15 percent of the total national daily consumption and the equivalent of three-fourths of the amount of oil imported from members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries. Roughly two-thirds of the diesel used as transportation fuel nationwide feeds three million 18-wheelers, the main trucks hauling goods over long distances.

In the last four years, the natural gas shale drilling boom has produced a glut of inexpensive fuel, leading producers to argue that the country should wean its commercial and municipal transportation systems from a dependence on imported oil to domestically produced natural gas.

It is cheaper, saving truckers as much as $1.50 a gallon, and it burns cleaner, making it easier to meet emissions standards. The domestic fuel also provides some insulation from the volatile geopolitics that can drive up petroleum prices.

Still, manufacturers and fleet owners have been slow to switch, partly because natural gas vehicles can cost almost twice as much as conventional trucks and because only a few gasoline stations have the specialized equipment needed to dispense the fuel.

Now, as name-brand manufacturers and chains like Nike and Walmart have pressed for transportation of their goods by natural gas vehicles and companies like U.P.S., FedEx and Ryder System have started exploring the option, truck makers have begun bringing natural gas vehicles to the market. Major manufacturers, including Navistar and Volvo, have plans to offer long-haul natural gas vehicles.

Clean Energy Fuels — a company backed by the financier T. Boone Pickens and Chesapeake Energy — has peppered major routes with 70 stations, many at truck stops operated by Pilot Flying J. (The truck-stop company, whose chief executive is Jimmy Haslam, owner of the Cleveland Browns, is separately under investigation for potential rebate fraud.)

Clean Energy has plans to complete 30 to 50 more by the end of the year. Shell has an agreement to build refueling stations at as many as 100 TravelCenters of America and Petro Stopping Centers while ENN, a privately held Chinese company, hopes to build 500 filling stations as well.

That emerging network “really has changed the interplay between the shippers and the contracted carriers,” said Andrew J. Littlefair, Clean Energy’s chief executive. “The whole deal’s beginning to change.”

Though the network is growing rapidly, it has a long way to go. As of May 2012, only 53 L.N.G. fueling stations were in the United States, more than two-thirds concentrated in California, along with 1,047 compressed natural gas stations around the country, according to the Energy Department. In comparison, there were 157,000 fueling stations selling gasoline.

Vehicle use of natural gas in the United States is still negligible but it has been growing. Among fleets whose vehicles travel shorter routes, like transit buses, refuse haulers and delivery trucks, use of compressed natural gas is much further along. Last year, more than half of newly purchased garbage trucks ran on compressed natural gas.

The federal Energy Information Administration last year projected that if enough L.N.G. filling stations were built and economic conditions were right, sales of heavy-duty natural gas vehicles could increase to 275,000 in 2035, equivalent to 34 percent of new vehicle sales, from 860 in 2010. But estimates vary. Citigroup recently forecast that 30 percent of the heavy truck fleet would shift to natural gas by the end of the decade, but some in the transportation industry put that figure much lower.

L.N.G. trucking is slowly gaining traction internationally as well — especially in Canada and Europe — although conversion in the United States, where gas is relatively inexpensive, is expected to be faster. Trucking industry experts project that 5 percent of the European heavy trucking fleet could run on natural gas by 2015, rising to as much as 15 percent by 2020.

“Natural gas will be a part of that play in commercial vehicles, but our view is, it’s not going to replace diesel,” said Roe C. East, general manager of the natural gas business at Cummins. He added that natural gas could capture as much as 10 percent of the heavy-duty truck market in North America in the next five years.

One obstacle is cost. There are some tax incentives, and the Obama administration funneled stimulus money to various projects. ENN, the Chinese company, for instance, has teamed up with a small company now operating as Blu in Utah that used federal stimulus money to help open a natural gas fueling station in Salt Lake City in 2011.

But industry executives say that the incentives are not enough to get the system going and solve what Bill Logue, chief executive of the FedEx Freight Corporation, called the “chicken-and-egg dilemma” of which comes first, the trucks or the stations.

“We believe that public policy supporting the development of natural gas infrastructure is critical and should be prioritized,” he said in an e-mail message. “Individual drivers and private companies cannot realistically be expected to resolve the dilemma themselves.”

Another issue arises alongside the very appeal of the fuel: its low price.

Because natural gas is now in demand to meet so many different energy needs — including industrial electricity and home heating — prices could rise, as they have in recent months, especially if the Obama administration begins approving the fuel for export to countries where gas commands a much higher price, as some producers and lawmakers are pressing the Energy Department to do.

As U.P.S. executives explain it, the economics for the switch to natural gas are complex.

Prices for L.N.G. and diesel fuel vary around the country, so the company matches its L.N.G. trucks with states where it can get the lowest-cost gas on long-term contracts and the most generous grants. The rule of thumb, according to U.P.S., is that truck operators save 30 to 40 percent per mile driven on gas over diesel.

A big part of the equation is a 50-cent-per-gallon tax credit the federal government offers to companies that use L.N.G., but that is scheduled to expire at the end of the year.

“The economics are getting better and better to where it’s less of a leap of faith than it used to be,” said Kurt Kuehn, chief financial officer of U.P.S., although there is still risk because the upfront cost is so high. It still takes seven or eight years for the savings from replacing diesel with the cheaper fuel to cover that cost, he said. For many companies, that may prove too long to wait.

But Clean Energy executives say that the margin between the fuel prices is so wide that the time for recouping the investment is shortening — perhaps to as little as one to three years.

Mr. Pickens, a Clean Energy board member who has been an advocate for switching the national trucking fleet to natural gas, said that even if the price of natural gas rose by roughly 50 percent, to $6 per thousand cubic feet, truck fleets would most likely still save money.

“Natural gas will always be less than diesel,” he said, “because the price of oil is set globally by OPEC and they have to have a price high enough to keep their social commitments and stay in power.”

Mr. Pickens predicted that a majority of the nation’s long-haul truck fleet would be fueled by natural gas in seven years because 70 percent of the 18-wheelers operate in defined regional areas, and a natural gas truck can drive 600 miles on a single fill-up.

“I promise you it will all fit together and the stations will be there,” he said.
590 2013-04-23 The stock market edged higher on Monday as energy stocks got a lift from recovering oil prices.

The energy sector climbed 1 percent, making it the biggest gainer in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index. Crude oil rose 92 cents, to $89.19 a barrel, on Monday.

The broader market managed only a modest advance as investors focused on the outlook for company profits at the start of a big week for earnings on Wall Street.

About a third of the companies in the S.& P. 500 index, including Exxon Mobil and Apple, will report earnings this week. While the reports have been good, concerns remain about the outlook for the rest of the year.

“Most of the companies seem to be coming in ahead of earnings expectations, but the thing that’s still problematic is the revenue line,” said Bill Stone, chief investment strategist at PNC Wealth Management. “To me it’s just symptomatic of the global economy continuing to sputter along.”

Of the companies that have reported earnings, 67 percent have exceeded analysts’ expectations, exceeding the 10-year average of 62 percent, according to S.& P. Capital IQ. Analysts expect earnings to rise by 2 percent in the first quarter, down from the 7.7 percent increase in the fourth quarter.
591 2013-04-23 Six other carriers have 787s in their fleets: Air India, Ethiopian Airlines, LAN Airlines of Chile, LOT of Poland, Qatar Airways and United Airlines of the United States. Orders for about 800 additional 787s are in the pipeline.

Boeing said it would deploy around 300 technicians to nine countries in the coming months to retrofit the 787s.

Investigators in the United States and Japan have not identified what caused the 787’s batteries to overheat. But Boeing and the F.A.A. have said that after more than 100,000 hours of tests on the modified system, they were satisfied that the changes should eliminate concerns that the batteries could ignite.

Boeing has a strong incentive to get the planes flying in Japan as soon as possible. The Japanese 787 fleet accounts for nearly half of all the Dreamliners that have been delivered, and Japanese suppliers played a large role in building the plane — providing 35 percent of all its components, including its wings.

The Japanese transportation minister, Akihiro Ota, said Friday that regulators there were in the final stages of evaluating the safety of the battery system changes. Analysts said Japanese regulators could require a few additional safeguards before approving the modified planes for flight.

Mr. Loftis said he could not predict how long it might take to obtain approval from regulators in Japan and elsewhere. The F.A.A. has primary authority to regulate and certify the safety of Boeing aircraft and, typically, its decisions are validated by other countries with few changes. “I am not expecting anything out of the ordinary” in the recertification of the 787 by foreign regulators, Mr. Loftis said. “They have the documentation and the analysis we have done. I would expect them to grant their approvals in the near future.”

It was not immediately clear when or where the first 787s would return to the skies. Once Boeing’s technicians have made the modifications, the planes will be turned back over to the airlines, which will follow their own procedures to prepare them for service. All Nippon, which operates 17 Dreamliners, is planning to make 100 to 200 test flights next month before resuming passenger service in June, Reuters reported last week.

Analysts predicted that it would be months before the entire 787 fleet was back in the air but said it would probably not be long before the first passenger flights resumed.

“It would be unwise to believe that the process of rectification will be fully complete before the end of the summer,” said Howard Wheeldon, an independent investment strategist in London, adding, “It seems to me that we can expect the first 787 to resume flying in airline service within a matter of weeks.”

With the F.A.A.’s approval of the battery modifications, Boeing said it was also beginning discussions with airlines about rescheduling deliveries of jets on order. The company has continued to build planes over the past three months, and Boeing has more than a dozen finished planes parked at its factories in Washington State and South Carolina.

Before the battery problems in January, Boeing had hoped to double its production of 787s to 10 per month by the end of this year, from 5 per month at present. Mr. Loftis declined to say Monday when Boeing would be in a position to begin ramping up production.

Boeing was expected to give an update on the situation Wednesday, when it reports first-quarter results.
592 2013-04-24 Hackers hijacked the Twitter account for The Associated Press on Tuesday and sent out an erroneous message reporting explosions at the White House that injured President Obama.&#xa;   &#xa;Within minutes, Jay Carney, Mr. Obama&#x2019;s press secre...
593 2013-04-24 Henry A. Prunier taught Vo Nguyen Giap, the Vietnamese general who withstood the armies of France and the United States, how to throw a grenade.&#xa;   &#xa;The lesson came in July 1945, after Mr. Prunier and six other Americans had parachuted int...
594 2013-04-24 Three federal agencies said they were investigating Tuesday’s attack on the Twitter account of The Associated Press after a fake tweet posted by the hackers briefly caused financial markets to plunge....
595 2013-04-24 A strong performance comes despite a push by European politicians to limit firms’ exposure to financial risks and to promote lending to local economies....
596 2013-04-24 Investors seem to be starry-eyed about Amazon’s valuation, particularly when compared with Apple’s....
597 2013-04-24 A day after Bayern routed Barcelona, Robert Lewandowski scored all four of Borussia Dortmund’s goals in a Champions League semifinal win over Real Madrid....
598 2013-04-24 Adding your personal touch to the Microsoft Office Ribbon can make it easier to find your favorite commands....
599 2013-04-24 Now for your drink orders. As you remember, from the agreement you signed after the second time you called to confirm your reservation, you will be drinking heavily this evening. My personal favorite is the house special, our Gray Martini: Stormwater gutter runoff from Northern California, gin from artisanal juniper berries grown especially for us and a few long black whiskers from the goat. You might also enjoy a retro Joey Bishop Manhattan made with vermouth and cheap whiskey, not quite as good as what Sinatra and his real inner circle at the Rat Pack drank, but amusing in that we allow you to order it at all.

O.K., are all our cellphones turned off? Our special entrees this evening are yet-to-be conceived suckling pig, what’s left of the ostrich after you make the handbags, and shark-encrusted mahi-mahi. Have you or anyone in your family ever been assaulted or had occasion to bring suit against a mahi-mahi? Is anyone in your family a mahi-mahi? In the case of a dispute involving the quality of mahi-mahi, do you believe you could judge mahi-mahi objectively or would you say, "Who cares? Nobody can tell the difference. It’s just another boring white fish." You, please leave the restaurant. No, you cannot get your coat first, you don’t deserve a coat. Security! Escort this man to the curb.

You will note at your table, in an intricately worked silver server, six kinds of salt, including 800-year-old Mongolian rock salt, the pinkish tinge of which comes from the blood of the men who fought for and against Genghis Khan. Is there anyone is this group who suspects it’s really Morton’s? Get out of the restaurant.

One special request from the management: We are well known for our exquisitely marbled Wagyu beef, for which we fly Wagyu cattle, alive and in first class, from Japan. Last week, however, one woman was overheard saying our Wagyu beef was over-cooked and the marbling asymmetrical. Do any of you know the name of this woman and where we can reach her? We’re not going to hurt her, we just want to stick her head in the oven and ask her what makes her such an expert.

Does anyone at this table know the lyrics to Warren Zevon’s “Hula Hula Boys”? Because I see that the youngest member of your party has gotten extremely close to the busboy and she don’t care about me. I didn’t need to spend all this time telling you about mahi-mahi to be treated like a jerk. You, young woman, under the table — leave the restaurant at once. Busboy, where are you going?

Although you reserved for a party of eight I see that your group is now down to four. Please wait at the bar until we are able to reseat you at a smaller table. It should be about three hours.
600 2013-04-24 What did I know, and how did I know it?...
601 2013-04-24 The bank reported first-quarter earnings of $1.4 billion, a large increase from the period a year earlier when it booked large charges on its own debt....
602 2013-04-24 LOS ANGELES — Which is more powerful: Superman or Walmart?

In an unusual promotional partnership that starts on May 18, customers at 3,718 Walmart stores in the United States will be able to buy tickets to early screenings of “Man of Steel,” the coming Superman movie from Warner Brothers.

About one million tickets will be put aside. Sellouts are expected. Prices will vary but will generally stay in line with the cost of tickets at the local theaters.

The promotion is designed to fill seats on opening weekend; Warner is counting on extensive in-store advertising and a burst of chatter on social media. Simultaneously, the goal is to send shoppers cascading into the arms of the world’s largest retailer. Warner and Walmart billed the partnership as a Hollywood first.

“You hear these staggering numbers of how many people walk through a Walmart every day, and that gives us an exposure that we really can’t put a dollar number on,” said Dan Fellman, Warner’s president of domestic distribution.

At the same time, Chris Nagelson, Walmart’s vice president of domestic entertainment merchandising, said, “These movies create a lot of energy in our stores.”
603 2013-04-24 The Rangers outshot Florida by 38-16, but after winning their last three games by an aggregate score of 18-6, the Rangers could not finish their chances.

Jacob Markstrom, Florida’s rookie goalie, stymied the Rangers for a second time this season.

Rangers Coach John Tortorella blamed the defeat on a stretch of less than one minute in the third period, when the score was tied at 1-1.

Richards was called for tripping defenseman T. J. Brennan at 6 minutes 43 seconds as Brennan was leading a two-on-two rush through the neutral zone.

On the power play, two Rangers clearances failed, including one by the usually stalwart defenseman Ryan McDonagh.

The Panthers held the puck in, moving it deftly, and Marcel Goc redirected a slap pass from Tomas Fleischmann past Henrik Lundqvist at 7:37.

“Not getting the puck out when we’re killing a penalty — that’s when they scored their second goal,” Tortorella said. “We had two separate tries to get it out. Forget about what happened prior — it’s 1-1, we have full control of the game. I think we take a penalty that we don’t need to take, and we don’t get the puck out.”

Tortorella repeated that assessment. “End of story,” he said.

But there was more to the story. The Rangers got a power play with 3:12 left and pulled Lundqvist to create a six-on-four advantage. However, Drew Shore scored into an empty net with 1:23 to go, making the score 3-1. Derick Brassard gave the Rangers life, scoring on a goal-mouth scramble with 33 seconds left, and then Markstrom made his last save, on a Callahan slap shot with 10 seconds remaining.

The Rangers dominated play all night against the Panthers, who entered the contest on a six-game losing streak. But Tortorella, Callahan and Lundqvist all thought the Rangers failed to generate enough quality chances.

Markstrom was the goalie in the first meeting this season between the teams, making 44 saves as the Panthers beat the Rangers, 3-1, at Madison Square Garden on March 21. In their second meeting, a 6-1 Rangers thrashing last Thursday, Scott Clemmensen was in the nets and Markstrom was on the bench.

“I don’t think we had that many good chances,” Lundqvist said. “I think we’re way better. We tried to play a good game here, and they just defended, but they did it well.”

Lundqvist made his 12th consecutive start, and his 41st in 46 games. He will almost certainly start again at Carolina.

“Our goal, our focus is just on getting in, and I don’t care how we do it, and I don’t mind if we get a little help,” Lundqvist said. “Let’s just focus on the next one.”

Brian Boyle did not suit up for a fourth straight game after sustaining a leg injury April 16 in Philadelphia.
604 2013-04-24 Joseph J. Lhota, a former chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, reported almost $2 million in income last year, far more than any other leading candidate for mayor, according to returns released on Tuesday.

Trailing Mr. Lhota, a Republican, was William C. Thompson Jr., a former comptroller and a Democrat, who reported making $727,000 as a senior managing director with a municipal bond firm.

Two other Democrats who released their returns on Tuesday — Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, and Bill de Blasio, the public advocate — reported $138,000 and $158,000, respectively. Another leading Democrat, John C. Liu, earns $185,000 a year as comptroller, and plans to release his returns on Wednesday, according to The New York Post, which reported on the Democrats’ returns on Wednesday afternoon.

Former Representative Anthony D. Weiner, a Democrat who is mulling a mayoral bid, and his wife, Huma Abedin, reported $496,000 in income, according to his return, including $312,146 in business income, and $135,266 in wages.

The vast bulk of Mr. Lhota’s income, $1.4 million, came from deferred compensation from his previous job at Madison Square Garden, according to a campaign spokeswoman. He also earned $295,000 from his job at the transportation agency.

But his wealth pales in comparison with that of his chief rival in the Republican primary, John Catsimatidis, a billionaire grocery magnate. Although Mr. Catsimatidis plans to release his tax information, he has filed for an extension. His return is complex, said Robert Ryan, a campaign spokesman. “This is not the type of thing one trots in and does at H&R Block.”
605 2013-04-24 YANGON, Myanmar (Reuters) — Myanmar’s president announced an amnesty on Tuesday for about 100 prisoners, a senior official said, 56 of whom were confirmed as political detainees by a group monitoring activists held in the country’s jails.

The release is the latest in a series of amnesties declared by President Thein Sein and came a day after the European Union lifted all sanctions on Myanmar, also known as Burma, excluding an arms embargo.

Bo Kyi, of the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners, said the group had confirmed the release of 56 political prisoners from five jails. According to the group, 176 remain in detention.

More than 800 political prisoners were freed in amnesties between May 2011 and last November.

In Washington, a State Department deputy spokesman, Patrick Ventrell, urged the government to release all political prisoners. “We welcome and encourage the unconditional release of all prisoners, but we do note that they’ve released about 50 today,” he told reporters.

Previous releases of political prisoners coincided with reviews of Western sanctions or high-level visits, such as that by Mr. Thein Sein to Washington last September and President Obama’s trip to Myanmar two months later.
606 2013-04-24 One of the most effective weapons in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s new arsenal isn’t high-tech or statistical: it’s whistle-blowers.
607 2013-04-24 WASHINGTON — A Yemeni man who studied at an American high school told Congress on Tuesday that a drone strike on his village in Yemen last week terrified his neighbors, turning them against the United States in a way that terrorist propaganda had failed to do.

The man, Farea al-Muslimi, said his friends and neighbors used to know of the United States primarily through “my stories of the wonderful experiences I had” here. “Now, however, when they think of America, they think of the fear they feel at the drones over their heads. What the violent militants had failed to achieve, one drone strike accomplished in an instant.”

A man killed in the strike was well known locally, Mr. Muslimi also asserted, and could easily have been arrested by Yemeni forces.

His testimony, before the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Human Rights, was part of a rare public hearing on the use of drones. The Obama administration did not send anyone to testify at the hearing, convened by Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois. But witnesses included legal specialists, a retired Air Force colonel who formerly worked with drones, and retired Gen. James E. Cartwright, the former vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

The topics discussed included the number of civilians inadvertently killed in the strikes, whether there should be a secret court to approve who becomes a target, and legal issues raised by the killing of American citizens who are deemed to be terrorists.

Several witnesses said the government should be more open and clear about the standards and procedures it uses in selecting who should be targeted. But some also stressed that legally, a drone strike is no different from other means of lethal force, like artillery, a commando raid or a cruise missile.
608 2013-04-24 In a Sepah department store in downtown Tehran, shoppers could be seen loading dozens of bottles of cooking oil into carts.

“I’m hoarding now, so that I don’t lose money later,” explained a homemaker who identified herself by only one name, Zahra. “Again, the prices of everything will go up.”

Hassan Davari, a representative of a vegetable oil distribution company, visiting a grocery near Palestine Square in Tehran, found that his product had been swept off the shelves. “Any goods we have handed over to shops this morning have vanished in a couple of hours,” he said.

The value of Iran’s national currency has fallen by half over the past few years. It has been especially pummeled by the Western sanctions, which have severely curtailed Iran’s international banking capabilities and halved its overseas sales of oil, the most important Iranian export. Many economists consider the rial’s problems at least a partial cause of Iran’s inflation, which is officially around 30 percent but widely believed to be far higher.

Iran’s economics minister, Shamseddin Hosseini, acknowledged on Tuesday that inflation was a problem and that the sanctions played a role. But in a briefing for reporters while on a visit to his country’s United Nations mission in New York, Mr. Hosseini said the sanctions had also created a contrarian and beneficial result by forcing Iran to become less reliant on imports and more self-sufficient.

“We have no doubt our growth rate is positive,” he said. The imposition of sanctions, he said, “forces you to find new ways to be creative.”

The minister also said that Iranians fully supported the government’s resistance to the sanctions, imposed in response to Iran’s nuclear energy program, which Western nations suspect is a guise for Iran to develop a nuclear weapons capability. Iran contends that the program is peaceful.

The minister maintained that the sanctions were designed to deny Iran the right to develop a broad new range of knowledge-based industries that the big Western powers would like to monopolize. New technologies, he said, “are forbidden frontiers, other than for themselves — no one else has permission to cross the threshold.”

Mr. Hosseini also disputed reports that some consumers in Iran had already found that the price of meat had doubled in the latest round of increases. “I don’t know what butcher shop they went to. They must have gotten a raw deal,” he said. “Foodstuffs have increased across the board, but not that much.”

The decision to end the preferable exchange rate for “essential” products was taken last week by the government of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, which says it wants to move toward a single foreign exchange rate.

The government’s decision is likely to further weaken the rial against the dollar, experts said. But it also appeared to have some internal political motivations.

Mr. Ahmadinejad has been pressuring Parliament to increase the monthly cash distributions given to most Iranians to help cushion the blow of rising prices, which have been caused in part by his effort to phase out subsidies on food and fuels. Mr. Ahmadinejad has called his subsidy overhaul the “most successful economic plan in the history of Iran.”

But many lawmakers have resisted Mr. Ahmadinejad’s pressure, saying they would agree to increase the monthly cash distributions only after the June 14 elections, fearing that doing so beforehand could strengthen Mr. Ahmadinejad’s popularity.

The president, who has served the maximum two terms and cannot run again, appears poised to support the candidacy of his close adviser Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, who is much hated by clerics and commanders in the security forces who fear he wants to undermine their power.
609 2013-04-24 In an otherwise authoritarian environment, divisions in the party have actually helped encourage free speech because factions are eager to tarnish one another, Dr. Thayer said.

“There’s a contradiction in Vietnam,” he said. “Dissent is flourishing, but at the same time, so is repression.”

As dissident voices have multiplied among Vietnam’s 92 million people, the government has tried to crack down. Courts have sentenced numerous bloggers, journalists and activists to prison, yet criticism, especially online, continues seemingly unabated. The government blocks certain Internet sites, but many Vietnamese use software or Web sites to maneuver around the censorship.

“Many more people are trying to express themselves than before, criticizing the government,” said Truong Huy San, an author, journalist and well-known blogger. “And what they are saying is much more severe.”

Mr. San, who is on a fellowship at Harvard, is the author of “The Winning Side,” perhaps the first critical, comprehensive history of Vietnam since 1975 by someone inside the country. Widely read in Vietnam, the two-volume work, written under the pen name Huy Duc, was printed without a permit from the government and describes such acts as the purges of disloyal party members and the of south Vietnamese business owners’ assets.

For casual visitors to Vietnam, surface evidence of economic progress may make it hard to understand the deep pessimism that many express in the country. Millions of people who a decade ago had only bicycles now speed around on motor scooters past factories and office towers.

The economy blossomed in the 1990s after reforms gave birth to Vietnam’s awkward mix of a market economy closely chaperoned by the Communist Party. Even now, the Vietnamese economy is still projected to grow at about 4 percent to 5 percent this year, thanks in part to strong exports of rice, coffee and other agricultural products.

But the real estate market is frozen by overcapacity, banks are saddled with bad loans, newspapers are running articles about rising unemployment, and the country is ranked among some of the world’s most corrupt by Transparency International, a global corruption monitor. (The country ranks 123rd on a list of 176, in which those with low numbers are the least corrupt.)

Vietnamese business people complain of overbearing government regulations imposed by a party that believes it can be the vanguard of capitalist enterprises.

And many say that Vietnam is directionless, despite its seemingly irrepressible industriousness and youthful population.

“In my 21 years here I’ve never seen this level of disenchantment with the system among the intelligentsia and entrepreneurs,” said Peter R. Ryder, the chief executive of Indochina Capital, an investment company in Vietnam. “There’s very meaningful debate within the business community and within the party — people who are superconcerned about the direction that the country is going.”

At the Spring Economic Forum, a conference held in early April that is organized by the economic committee of the National Assembly, participants “were fighting to have a chance at the microphone,” according to Le Dang Doanh, a leading economist who attended the forum, which he described as “stormy.”

He said there was widespread criticism that although the economy needed profound restructuring, “almost nothing has been implemented.”

“It’s a crisis of trust,” Mr. Doanh said. “Better times have been promised every year, but people don’t see it.”

At the center of the political storm is Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung, who has been in power since 2006. Mr. Dung’s brash style and ambitious program for the economy initially won him supporters because he broke from the mold of the stodgy party apparatchik.

But he alienated many party members by dismantling an advisory board that had been a leading force behind the reform program (and that board included Mr. Tuong, the Marxist scholar, among many other senior party members).

More important, Mr. Dung’s trademark policy, his forceful push to build up state-run companies along the lines of ’s private conglomerates, backfired.

Run by executives with close ties to the Communist Party hierarchy, the enterprises expanded into many businesses they were unqualified to manage, economists say, and speculated in the stock market and in real estate. Two of the largest state enterprises nearly collapsed and remain close to insolvency.

Mr. Tuong, the Marxist scholar, says the tensions in the Communist Party have been heightened by the troubles with the economy.

In February, he helped write an open letter to the party’s general secretary, Nguyen Phu Trong, urging changes to the country’s Constitution that would “ensure that real power belongs to the people.” He has yet to receive a response.

Mr. Tuong says he has been eager to promote change since his days as adviser to Prime Minister Vo Van Kiet, who helped overhaul the economy in the 1990s.

But today he feels the pressure of time. He has , though it appears to be in remission, and he talks about the disease as a sort of intellectual liberation spurring him to tell what he now views as the truth.

“In a nutshell, Marx is a great thinker,” he said. “But if we never had Marx it would have been even better.”
610 2013-04-24 One of the biggest questions facing Apple is whether it can innovate its way out of its funk by delivering a breakthrough new product, perhaps in a category like television, that rekindles growth and investors’ passion.

Timothy D. Cook, the company’s chief executive, said in a conference call with analysts that the decline in the stock price has been “very frustrating to all of us,” but that Apple remains strong. “Our teams are hard at work on some amazing new hardware, software and services that we can’t wait to introduce this fall and throughout 2014,” Mr. Cook said.

Mr. Cook even dropped a hint about “exciting new product categories” that Apple could enter, suggesting the company is preparing a move into a new market.

For its fiscal second quarter, which ended March 30, the company said that its net income dropped 18 percent to $9.55 billion, or $10.09 a share, from $11.62 billion, or $12.30 a share, during the same period a year earlier.

Revenue rose 11 percent to $43.6 billion from $39.19 billion a year before.

Wall Street analysts expected the company to report earnings of $10.07 a share and revenue of $42.59 billion, according to the average of estimates compiled by Thomson Reuters.

Months ago, Apple sought to brace investors by warning that profit could decline about 20 percent in the quarter. At that time, Apple forecast revenue of $41 billion to $43 billion.

Sales of iPhones, the company’s biggest business, grew only 3 percent to $22.96 billion in the second quarter.

The company has warned that new products like the iPad Mini have lower profit margins than older items like its full-size iPad sibling. It is also selling more of its older model smartphones, like the iPhone 4, which have lower margins. That has stirred up worries that Apple’s efforts to cater to more budget-conscious consumers with low-price products could steadily erode its considerable profits.

Apple is widely thought to be preparing a new low-cost version of the iPhone to compete more aggressively with smartphones based on Google’s Android operating system. A cheaper device could hold special appeal in huge markets like India and China where average incomes are far lower than in the West.

Pushing into inexpensive phones could hurt Apple’s admired profit margins, though. Last year, the company garnered almost 70 percent of the profit in the mobile handset business, according to estimates by Canaccord Genuity.

Apple’s gross profit margins, one of the most closely watched measures of how profitable it is, are already declining, falling to 37.5 percent in the second quarter from 47.4 percent a year ago. This is the fourth consecutive quarter of declining gross margins at Apple, the longest stretch of such declines since 1993, according to Bill Moore, director of corporate development for Bloodhound Investment Research, a provider of online investment management tools.

Apple warned that its gross margins would probably continue to fall in the fiscal third quarter, dropping to between 36 and 37 percent.

“Investors would love some sense of when gross margins will stabilize, and unfortunately Apple didn’t give us that,” said Rob Cihra, an analyst at Evercore Partners.

As Apple’s holdings of cash and cash equivalents have swelled — the figure is now over $140 billion — investors have clamored loudly for the company to step up its efforts to buy back shares or issue a bigger dividend.

The company said on Tuesday that its board had approved a 15 percent increase in its quarterly dividend. It declared a dividend of $3.05 a common share, which will be paid to shareholders on May 16.

Apple said it planned to borrow cash as part of its plan to return cash to shareholders. Even though Apple has far more capital than it needs in its coffers, much of it is held overseas and would be subject to taxes if the company were to bring it back to the United States. Apple can also help increase its earnings per share by lowering its outstanding share count through stock purchases.

“We believe so strongly that repurchasing our shares represents an attractive use of our capital that we have dedicated the vast majority of the increase in our capital return program to share repurchases,” Mr. Cook said in a statement.
611 2013-04-24 “That usually is not going to happen because you’re in a war,” she said.

If there is no direct access to the site, investigators try to gather as many interviews as possible from patients and other eyewitnesses.

Intelligence agencies would look at what chemical weapons the players were known to possess. If the use of the weapons was confirmed, they would look, in trying to determine who used them, at factors like how they were delivered, which combatants had that capacity, and intelligence on what orders might have been issued.

In a war environment, Ms. Sirkin said, there are many cases “that may look like chemical weapons, and legitimate observers, including medical observers, may legitimately believe that chemical weapons were used, and they may or may not have been.”

“It’s not easy to know unless you’re an expert,” she said.

For example, a full six weeks aftrer Soviet forces used poison gas in an attack in Tbilisi, Georgia, in 1989, dozens of people were hospitalized with were what Physicians for Human Rights determined was “catastrophe reaction syndrome” — symptoms brought on by fear after the use of poison has been reported. (The Soviets later confirmed and publicly acknowledged that they had used the agent chloropicrin.)

Until a clear determination is made on whether chemical weapons were used, Ms. Sirkin said, “it’s important for everyone commenting on a situation to be as precise as possible.”

“One doesn’t want to cause panic,” she added.

On the other hand, she said, a small death toll or mild symptoms do not necessarily mean that banned weapons were not used, because there are many factors that affect their potency, including weather and volume.

Determining what was used is important not only from a political and human rights point of view, but also from a public health standpoint, she said, so that appropriate care can be delivered.

Everyone with access to a site should try to preserve anything that might be evidence, she said, because with chemical weapons used so infrequently, experts are still learning about new ways to detect them.

Even without immediate direct access to a site, investigators can make headway, though they may not be able to make a final determination. Ms. Sirkin said her organization was surprised in the Iraq case by how much it could find out by interviewing people who had fled the scene and then returning years later to gather samples.

She said she remembered being unable to enter Iraq in 1988 and wondering if the question of whether chemicals were used in the Kurdish areas would ever be answered.

Physicians for Human Rights ended up surveying refugees who had fled to Turkey. Based on reported symptoms and people’s descriptions of “what they had seen, heard, smelled and felt,” the group declared that it believed that mustard gas and a nerve agent had been used.

Four years later, when the group reached the site, it found trace breakdown elements of the nerve agent sarin. “We had no idea that traces could remain four years later,” she said.

She described a fearsome list of symptoms that nerve agents can cause as they attack the nervous system, interfering with muscle control and organ functions.

“Within one minute,” she said, “one could expect blurred vision, eye pain, watery eyes, drooling, nausea and vomiting, loss of bladder and bowel function, chest tightness and difficulty breathing, change in mental status, generalized muscle weakness and twitching.”

“It would be best if these were not in anybody’s arsensal, because they are so dangerous and frightiening,” she said. “It’s not for nothing that government leaders, the U.N. and the population of Syria believe that these weapons should never be used.”
612 2013-04-24 Ms. Thompson wrote “The New Mind of the South” out of an intuition that much of what she prizes about her home ground is imperiled. “Tradition in the South is like beachfront property in an era of global warming,” she declares. “As much as you love the view, you live with the knowledge that some morning you will wake up and find it gone.”

This is not a new arena of thought. In his 1974 book, “The Americanization of Dixie: The Southernization of America,” for example, the journalist and historian John Egerton issued a long, lonesome moan over how malled-up and hollow-souled the South was becoming.

Yet Ms. Thompson digs into fresh material. Her book is a series of pop-ins. She’s interested in identity, and visits a Hispanic leadership seminar to get a feel for the South’s new waves of immigration. She’s deft on how Hispanics don’t entirely see themselves as Southerners — to them the American South will always be El Norte.

“Hispanics will change the South,” she says, but “the South will change them.” She notes that it’s hard to find a mariachi band these days that can’t play “Orange Blossom Special.” She’s optimistic. She asks, “Can salsa with grits be far behind?” I’ve heard that cheese grits with a bit of salsa can be sublime. But in general, I hope well-meaning Latinos and good old boys can come together long enough to agree that the collective answer to Ms. Thompson’s question is “Eww.”

Ms. Thompson drops in on a Children of the Confederacy convention, to observe genteel racism of a fading sort. She takes us along to a megachurch presided over by the sublimely named Creflo Dollar. She ponders the overlapping meanings of the 1994 Susan Smith case, in which a mother in South Carolina drowned her two children before claiming a black man had kidnapped them.

She’s good on what she calls “Southern Sonar,” which allows Southerners to “ping” one another to assess their origins. She’s brutal about her hometown, Atlanta, which she feels has backslid on racial issues.

After listing some civil rights-era black leaders, she says: “With the exception of John Lewis, I couldn’t imagine any of them making a career in politics in today’s Atlanta. Their brand of concern for the poor and dispossessed would be instantly construed as an attempt to pick the pockets of the middle class; they’d be booed off the stage.”

She argues, compellingly, that to put the ghosts of slavery to rest, the South needs something akin to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission set up in South Africa by Nelson Mandela in the mid-1990s.

There are grace notes. I enjoyed Ms. Thompson’s observation that discovering that one of her ancestors had been a Union supporter during the Civil War was a shock not unlike “learning that some old family keepsake painting you’d had for decades had, in fact, been hanging upside down.”

“The New Mind of the South” does not, alas, make for a sustaining supper. Ms. Thompson has zero feel for the South’s literature or music or drama or food — the only cook she discusses in any real way is Paula Deen — and not much more for its politics. There’s no deep historical awareness.

I wasn’t sure it was possible to write a book about the mind of the South that didn’t mention George Wallace, Bear Bryant or Ronnie Van Zant, but Ms. Thompson has managed it.

When large and complicated humans do walk into view, they seem diminished in her hands. She describes the great South Carolina writer, planter and Anglican clergyman Charles Woodmason, for example, “as a kind of 18th-century Frasier Crane.”

This is a book about the Southern intellect by a writer who had never visited the South’s intellectual ground zero, Oxford, Miss., until she hurriedly drove through it while researching this book.

Ms. Thompson takes her share of whacks at what’s become of America below the Mason-Dixon line — or, as The Onion has it, below the IHOP-Waffle House line.

“The South has been urbanized, suburbanized, strip-malled, and land-formed to a point that at times I hardly recognize it anymore,” she writes. Yet it remains, she declares, “a place that bears the imprint of that deep sense of community and an almost tribal definition of kin.”

Best of all, this heartsick Southerner reminds us, “in New York you never get the fleeting sense that the polite stranger giving you directions might invite you home for dinner. In Atlanta, you do.”
613 2013-04-24 Mr. Sinnett said the failure calculation was based on data provided by GS Yuasa. “That value essentially is reached by experience with similar type cells,” he said. “GS Yuasa had experience with over 14,000 cells of similar makeup. They had millions upon millions of those cells without any cell venting.”

One of the tests consisted of driving a nail into a battery cell to provoke a short circuit. While the cell failed, the test did not result in a fire. But under repeated questioning, Mr. Sinnett acknowledged that the nail test had been inadequate and was not “conservative enough.” Boeing, he said, found that the batteries could catch fire only if they were overcharged.

The Boeing executive was pressed to say whether the company stood by its original risk estimate. He declined to do that until investigators could determine the cause of the two battery failures. Ms. Hersman did not seem satisfied with the answer. At one point she said, “There is some obfuscation here.”

During questioning, Mr. Sinnett gave a narrower definition of Boeing’s risk estimate than the company had in the past. “That once in 10 million flight hours doesn’t apply to things like abuse of the battery,” he said. “It doesn’t necessarily apply to a nonconforming battery, meaning a battery that was not built for the type design. So there are other things that can cause the failure of a battery that don’t contribute to that one in 10 million hours.”

Later in the day, representatives of GS Yuasa responded by describing their intensive testing of the batteries and their long experience in making similar cells.

Boeing used a large number of subcontractors for the 787s. It picked a French company, Thales, to provide the 787’s power conversion system. Thales, in turn, chose GS Yuasa to build the lithium-ion batteries for the planes. But a GS Yuasa executive made clear during the hearing that both Boeing and Thales were involved in all of its testing and design phases.

“GS Yuasa provided designs, and Thales and Boeing reviewed them and sometimes made suggestions and approved them,” said Takahiro Shizuki, the manager of large-scale batteries at GS Yuasa.

The F.A.A. last week approved Boeing’s plans to fix the plane’s lithium-ion batteries, an important step in lifting the grounding of the 787s in the United States. After the grounding of the fleet, Boeing made several changes to its original battery design. These fixes include adding better insulation between the batteries’ eight cells and building a stainless steel box that will encase the batteries and contain any fire and vent possible smoke or hazardous gases out of the planes.

“There is still more work to be done in the investigation,” Ms. Hersman said.

Boeing told the F.A.A. it planned to use lithium-ion batteries on its 787 in 2003. Because airplane regulations at the time did not cover such batteries, the F.A.A. in 2007 approved Boeing’s use under nine special conditions that covered the need to contain or vent any hazardous materials.

Mr. Sinnett defended the plane maker’s choice of lithium-ion batteries, saying at the hearing that the 787’s certification by regulators took 200,000 hours and was the most “extensive in our company’s history.” He added that the battery’s certification was “very rigorous and subject to close scrutiny by the F.A.A.”

Yet the fire in Boston also showed something that the regulators and the company did not expect: that a flaw, possibly no larger than a grain of sand, in a single cell could set off a chain reaction that would cause smoke or fire in adjacent cells.

“We were focused on the hazards of the battery,” said Ali Bahrami, a senior F.A.A. official in charge of the 787 certification. “We knew the hazards were always there. The awareness was always there. We did the best we could under the circumstances, and the knowledge that existed then, to come up with standards that address the requirements for this particular battery.”

Steve Boyd, another F.A.A. senior official, said: “You have to look at the special conditions as a comprehensive and mutually supportive requirement intended not only to reduce the probability of a thermal event but to mitigate the effects of any of those failures if they occur.”

It is the second public hearing by the safety board on lithium batteries. On April 11 and 12, the board held a two-day forum focused mostly on the batteries as cargo and components in devices carried by passengers.
614 2013-04-24 Maybe Manchester United winning the Premier League on Monday was a sign. Perhaps big-money off-season acquisition Robin Van Persie scoring a hat trick in the pivotal drubbing of Aston Villa signals that this is the year of the dynasty. This plays on the heartstrings of any hopeful superpower. Maybe the Miami Heat will repeat as N.B.A. champions and not lose a playoff game. Could Duke basketball go undefeated? Green Bay win the next three Super Bowls? Perhaps the Yankees can hold themselves together with Ace bandages and Advil and limp their way to a World Series!

O.K., so the Yankees will be the first to tell you that the dynasty business hasn’t been so healthy in the United States, but it’s alive and able to stomp out underdogs in the Premier League. Lose a title by goal differential when your cross-city rival Manchester City scores two goals in extra time last year? Vow never to be outscored again, sign Van Persie away from Arsenal for a gazillion pounds, clinch the league with four games to go, hail Van Persie as a savior and laugh all the way to the city-sized bank vault that houses your money.

Manchester United’s domination drew huzzahs aplenty in England, as Daniel Taylor writes in The Guardian. Manager Alex Ferguson is a genius, as Ian Herbert writes in The Independent. Van Persie is a football artist, as Jim White writes in The Telegraph. The American owners roll out another fleet of armored trucks. But yes, to non-Man U fans and dynasty agnostics, it feels roughly like rooting for Exxon Mobil.

The triumphant players even got to poke a bit of fun at the other story roiling English soccer, with Patrice Evra bringing a fake arm onto the field during the postgame celebration to take a bite, a la Liverpool’s Luis Suarez. His bit of biting might still be the biggest deal in England had Manchester United not clinched, with Prime Minister David Cameron weighing in with a call for harsh punishment and everyone suddenly fascinated at what famed ear-biter Mike Tyson has to say. Yes, perhaps the biggest slilce of hilarity came from Tyson deciding to follow Suarez on “the Twitter thing” and saying in an interview, “He bit somebody. It happens.”

Fortunately, the American sporting events of Monday came and went without any extracurricular gnashing. That included the N.B.A. playoff games that saw Chicago fight back to even its series with the Nets at one-all and the Clippers using a last-second shot from Chris Paul to put Memphis down, 2-0. That one brought all credit to Paul, as Lee Jenkins writes on SI.com, but the Bulls victory had several heroes. As Kieren Darcy writes on ESPN.com, it was an admirable effort by Joakim Noah to play through the pain of his foot injury, but Adrian Wojnarowski of Yahoo.com believes it was a masterpiece created by Coach Tom Thibodeau.
615 2013-04-24 The Flash Germany Composite Output index issued by Markit fell to 48.8 in April from 50.6 in March, a six-month low. A reading below 50 is considered a sign that the economy is likely to contract. For the euro zone as a whole, the corresponding index was unchanged at 46.5, confirming that the region remains in a rut.

The German economy shrank 0.6 percent in the last three months of 2012. Another negative quarter would push the country into recession and present a problem for Chancellor Angela Merkel as her party campaigns to remain in power in elections this autumn. Meanwhile, the stubborn slowdown in the euro zone is likely to further inflame the debate about how much more austerity troubled countries in Europe can take.

Many political leaders are arguing for a greater emphasis on growth. José Manuel Barroso, president of the European Commission, said in Brussels on Monday that while countries need to continue cutting government debt and budget deficits, ‘'we need to complement this with proper measures for growth.'’

In Europe’s most troubled countries, there was little sign of a turnaround in growth. Economic activity in Spain declined 0.5 percent in the first three months of this year, the Bank of Spain said in a preliminary estimate Tuesday.

Still, markets cheered the pessimistic survey results because of expectations that they would prompt the E.C.B. to cut interest rates or take other action when its policy-making board meets May 2.

On Tuesday, the central bank of Hungary, which is not a member of the euro zone, cut its main interest rate to 4.75 percent from 5 percent. It was the bank’s ninth rate cut in as many months.

The benchmark French stock market index, the CAC 40, finished the day 3.6 percent higher, while the interest rate on France’s 10-year sovereign bond hit a record low of 1.706 percent. Other major European stock indexes posted gains of more than 2 percent while bond yields fell.

For France, the Markit output index rose to 44.2 in April from 41.9 in March, indicating that the pace of decline was slowing in the euro zone’s largest economy after Germany’s. But that tidbit of good news was clouded by a drop in the separate Insee indicator of the French business climate.

The decline in optimism among German purchasing managers might be the result of a deceleration in the pace of growth in China, which in recent years has become one of the most important markets for German products like automobiles and machinery. China has helped to compensate for weak demand in the rest of Europe.

‘'The last nine months have been very slow in our business,'’ said Joachim Schönbeck, a member of the management board of SMS Group, a German company that builds and equips factories to produce steel and other metals.

Mr. Schönbeck said that there were signs that China was picking up again because of new political leadership, while demand was strong from countries like Russia, India and the United States. But he added, ‘'Demand is slowly decreasing in Europe.'’

In general, German companies may be suffering from uncertainty about which way the world’s major economies are going, said Ralph Wiechers, chief economist of the German Engineering Federation, an industry group in Frankfurt that represents makers of machine tools and high-priced industrial goods.

‘'The mood is cautious, neither euphoric nor skeptical,'’ Mr. Wiechers said. ‘'People are waiting to see.'’

Even if Germany is merely treading water, that is still bad news for the rest of the euro zone. The resilient German economy has played a crucial role in compensating for the swath of economic woe that runs from Cyprus to Ireland by way of Greece, Italy, Spain and Portugal.

‘'The German economy may not be as strong as we thought,'’ Marie Diron, a senior economic adviser to the consulting firm Ernst & Young, said by e-mail.

Members of the Governing Council of the E.C.B. had already hinted that an interest rate cut could be imminent. Mario Draghi, the president of the E.C.B., said earlier this month that policy makers were ‘'ready to act.'’

The new data Tuesday further raised expectations that a cut in the benchmark interest rate, already at a record low of 0.75 percent, could come when the Governing Council meets next month.

‘'It is no longer a matter of if but when the E.C.B. will be cutting rates,'’ analysts at Nomura said in a note to clients Tuesday.

It is also possible that the E.C.B. could look for other ways to ease a credit crunch in countries like Italy and Spain, though it is not clear what other options are available. Mr. Draghi has often said that low official interest rates have not benefited companies in the troubled countries because banks remain too reluctant to lend.

Mr. Draghi has predicted that the euro zone would begin recovering gradually later this year. But if the rebound takes longer than that, it could have political as well as economic effects.

Prolonged economic pain would make it that much more difficult for Italy to form a stable government, and could weaken Ms. Merkel, the German chancellor, in national elections this autumn.

While Ms. Merkel has a solid lead in polls, she does not have enough support to win an absolute majority in the Parliament. A weaker showing would force her to share more power with her coalition partners.

At the same time, German unemployment remains low at 5.4 percent, compared with a record high of 12 percent for the euro zone as a whole. Many German managers remain relatively optimistic.

Johann Sailer, managing director and owner of Geda Dechentreiter, a German maker of elevators used on construction sites and drilling rigs, said that demand in the construction industry was still good but that the pace of growth might have slowed for some companies.

‘'They have a lot of work,'’ he said of companies in the building industry. ‘'It’s moving a little bit sideways at the moment, but I don’t see any dramatic slowdown.'’
616 2013-04-24 Secretary of State suggested there were mixed messages emerging from Israel, saying that he spoke to Prime Minister on Tuesday morning and that the Israeli leader “was not in a position to confirm” the intelligence assessment. Israeli officials said they would not try to explain the apparent difference between Mr. Netanyahu’s statement and that of his top military intelligence officials.

At the same time, Daniel B. Shapiro, the American ambassador to Israel, said that contingency plans to address the use of chemical weapons in Syria were “very much part” of the discussions between Defense Secretary and his Israeli counterpart here on Monday.

The Israeli intelligence analyst, Brig. Gen. Itai Brun, told participants at a security conference in Tel Aviv that the Syrian government “has increasingly used chemical weapons.” That echoed accusations that Britain and France made in a letter last week to the secretary general of the , calling for a deeper investigation.

“The very fact that they have used chemical weapons without any appropriate reaction,” General Brun said, “is a very worrying development, because it might signal that this is legitimate.”

General Brun’s statements were the most definitive to date by an Israeli official regarding evidence of possible chemical weapons attacks on March 19 near Aleppo, Syria, and Damascus, the capital. Another military official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said that the evidence had been presented to the Obama administration but that it had not fully accepted the analysis.

None of the assertions — by Israel, Britain or France — have included physical proof. Experts say the most definitive way to prove the use of chemical weapons is to collect soil samples promptly at the site and examine suspected victims.

A senior Defense Department official noted that “the use of chemical weapons in an environment like Syria is very difficult to confirm.” He added: “Given the stakes involved, low-confidence assessments by foreign governments cannot be the basis for U.S. action. The president has clearly stated that the use of chemical weapons would be a game changer. Thus, we must be absolutely confident of use before determining how to respond.”

That will not be easy. The Syrian government, which has accused insurgents of using chemical weapons and has requested that a United Nations forensics team investigate, has refused to allow that team to enter the country because of a dispute over the scope of its inquiry.

Mr. Kerry, at a meeting of foreign ministers in , urged that members of the alliance be ready to respond if it was determined that Syria had in fact used chemical weapons.

But after his phone call with Mr. Netanyahu he told reporters, “I don’t know yet what the facts are,” adding, “I don’t think anybody knows what they are.”

Israeli military officials insisted at an annual conference of the Institute for National Security Studies, one of the country’s leading research institutes, that after a month of investigations they now understand what happened. General Brun said, “It is quite clear that they used harmful chemical weapons.” He cited “different signs,” including photographs of Syrians “foaming at the mouth.” In a briefing after those comments, another Israeli military official said it was believed that the attacks involved sarin gas, the same agent used in a 1995 assault on the Tokyo subway system that killed 13.

The Syrian attacks killed “a couple of dozens,” the military official said, in what Israel judged as a test by Mr. Assad of the international community’s response. He said that the government had deployed chemicals a handful of times since then, but that the details and effectiveness of those attacks were sketchier.

“Their fear of using it is much lower than before using it,” the official added. “If somebody would take any reaction, maybe it would deter them from using it again.”

The public statements regarding the attacks, made days after the British and French governments wrote to Secretary General of the United Nations saying they, too, had evidence of chemical weapons, could complicate the situation for Washington.

If the United States has been more reluctant than its allies to come to firm conclusions about chemical weapons, it may be because such proof could force Mr. Obama’s hand. In August, the president told reporters that any evidence that Mr. Assad was moving the weapons or making use of them could prompt the United States to act.

“That would change my calculus,” he said. “That would change my equation.”

Mr. Obama’s aides have since amended his statement, saying that he was referring to major use of chemical weapons — akin to what employed against the Kurds two decades ago — or the transfer of weapons to terrorist groups. Mr. Hagel’s spokesman, George Little, said in , , where Mr. Hagel arrived on Tuesday, that the president’s warnings remained in place.

“We reiterate in the strongest possible terms the obligations of the Syrian regime to safeguard its chemical weapons stockpiles and not to use or transfer such weapons to terrorist groups like Hezbollah.”

The United States has made efforts to gather evidence from the field in Syria, but with few apparent results. Majid, a rebel commander from the eastern suburbs of Damascus, said recently that his battalion had been contacted, through intermediaries, by the , requesting samples to be tested for the presence of chemicals. Speaking via from Jordan, and on the condition that he be identified only by his first name for his safety, Majid said that the C.I.A. had requested soil, urine and hair samples from several areas around Damascus.
617 2013-04-25 LONDON &#x2014; As European policy makers push financial institutions to cut back on their risky trading activity, some of the region&#x2019;s largest banks are becoming more reliant on their investment banking operations to bolster performance.&#...
618 2013-04-25 If you&#x2019;re not sure that you need a tablet, $200 is a lot to spend just to find out. But  Ematic  has reduced the risk with the Genesis Prime, a 7-inch Android tablet computer that lists for  $80 .&#xa;   &#xa;You get quite a lot at that pri...
619 2013-04-25 This earnings season, some prominent companies are taking advantage of the S.E.C.’s new rules that allow the use of social media to disclose financial information, though others are proceeding slowly....
620 2013-04-25 In accusing the authorities of deliberately killing one of her sons, the Boston suspects’ mother pointed to a video taken by a Watertown, Mass., resident during last week’s shootout....
621 2013-04-25 BB Seguridade, the biggest insurance company in Latin America, raised $5.74 billion late Thursday in the largest initial public offering in the world so far this year....
622 2013-04-25 Multiple videos posted online by Syrian citizen journalists claim to show the aftermath of chemical attacks in Ateibeh, a town outside Damascus....
623 2013-04-25 Utah recently became the first state to explicitly permit general prisoners – not death-row inmates – to donate their organs if they die while incarcerated. Should more states have laws like this? Should prisoners be allowed to make live donations to people other than family members? And with nearly 118,000 people in the U.S. waiting for hearts, kidneys, livers and other life-saving transplants, why not include death-row inmates?
624 2013-04-25 The first round of the N.F.L. draft was a wild ride: three offensive tackles and three pass-rushers in the first six picks;  two guards in the top 10 for the first time in N.F.L.; and only one quarterback selected....
625 2013-04-25 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
626 2013-04-25 Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, speaking in Cairo during a Middle East tour that has been dominated by worries about Syria, said, “Suspicions are one thing; evidence is another.”

Some analysts say they worry that if the United States waits too long, it will embolden President Bashar al-Assad, who has steadily escalated the lethality of the weapons used against the opposition. The government’s use of chemical weapons in isolated episodes, these experts said, would be a way to test international reaction before using them on a wider scale.

Moreover, analysts said, the investigation, which is being conducted by the United Nations, has been hobbled because its inspectors have not been allowed into Syriathe country. Also, the scope of that investigation does not extend to who used the weapons, merely whether chemical agents were used. The United States is also conducting its own assessment, as are Israel and other countries.

Last August, Mr. Obama threatened the Syrian government with unspecified American action if there was any evidence that chemical weapons were being used or moved on a large scale. On Tuesday, Israel’s top military intelligence analyst, Brig. Gen. Itai Brun, told a security conference in Tel Aviv that the Syrian government had used chemical weapons, and he criticized the international community for not doing more in response.

“The president’s red line appears to have been crossed,” said Martin S. Indyk, a former American ambassador to Israel. “The administration has to take some time to decide what to do about it.”

“But if they end up leaving the impression that the president is not willing to enforce his red line,” said Mr. Indyk, who is now at the Brookings Institution, “that will have consequences in the region, particularly when it comes to Iran’s nuclear program, as well as for our ability to deter Assad’s use of chemical weapons in Syria.”

Administration officials said their assessment of chemical weapons in Syria was not much different from that of Britain and France, which sent letters to the United Nations’ secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, last month, urging a thorough investigation of the accusllegations.

Although Britain and France laid out allegations of chemical weapons attacks in three places in Syria — Aleppo and the suburbs of Damascus on March 19, and an earlier episode in Homs in December — neither country said it was certain that chemical weapons had been used, according to copies of the letters obtained by The New York Times.

Even within Israel, the military’s assessment has not been fully embraced by government officials and analysts who follow Syria. Several officials said Wednesday that while they did not doubt the evidence, they worried that the general’s speech would be used to pressure Washington.

“Every intelligence branch can submit its own assessment,” said an Israeli official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. “The issue of chemical weapons is being examined by Israel and the United States at the most senior levels, and is still being discussed.”

Another official said that was the reason that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told Secretary of State John Kerry on Tuesday that he could not confirm the assessment.

“There’s a difference between what the I.D.F. feels is the truth as they see it and what we feel is appropriate for the dialogue between the two governments,” he said, referring to the Israel Defense Forces. “Don’t read into this an effort to force America’s hand.”

Mr. Hagel, in Egypt, declared that Washington would not be rushed into action by foreign intelligence reports, even those from allies. The administration, he said, hasd to be “very careful” before drawing conclusions and, if necessary, changing its policy, and should await a full review by United States intelligence agencies.

Administration officials said that the Pentagon had prepared a menu of military options for Mr. Obama if he concluded that there was incontrovertible evidence that chemical weapons had been used. Those options, one official said, could include missile strikes on Syrian aircraft from American ships in the Mediterranean or commando raids.

Last fall, the United States military secretly sent a task force of 150 planners and other specialists to Jordan to help deal with an influx of refugees from neighboring Syria, as well as the possibility that Syria could lose control of its chemical weapons stockpiles.

On Tuesday, at a NATO meeting in Brussels, Mr. Kerry said that the alliance should plan for the possibility of a chemical weapons attack by Syria. Turkey, a NATO member that borders the country, would be most at risk from such an attack. Mr. Kerry later clarified that he had not been calling for a specific NATO role in responding to Syria.

Experts on chemical warfare said the administration’s methodical approach was warranted. The evidence that has emerged so far is suggestive of chemical attacks, they said, but not conclusive. Syrian government forces could have used riot-control gas that, while extremely powerful, does not qualify as a chemical warfare agent, like sarin gas.

“It’s not a smoking gun, at least so far,” said Keith Ward, an expert on chemical warfare who worked for the Department of Homeland Security and the Navy and is now advising Human Rights Watch.

Critics, while acknowledging the murkiness of the situation, said the White House was setting the bar too high. “They’re not going to be able to have that smoking gun,” said Andrew Tabler, a Syria expert at the Washington Institute for Near Eastern Policy.
627 2013-04-25 “Collapse” is quite a bold title for a play that proves so trite. Built on unbelievable situations and uninspired jokes, the script holds enough humor to sustain a sitcom. But as this comedy stretches toward an hour and a half, the only thing that the title invites is an easy attempt to sum up the show.

As the story opens, we find the pants-less Hannah (Hannah Cabell) bent over in front of her husband, David (Elliot Villar), in what looks to be a sex act. Oh, ha ha, it’s not — after a string of sophomoric double-entendres we learn that David is giving Hannah fertility drugs. Within minutes they are interrupted by Susan (Nadia Bowers), Hannah’s wacky sister. She’s arrived from halfway across the country, unannounced, with plans to move into the couple’s home, uninvited.

Susan reveals that she’s involved in a drug-smuggling operation, but not before Hannah is talked into attending a support group in place of David, who is plagued by emotional problems. Along the way Hannah gets lost and meets Ted (Maurice McRae), a member of Sex Addicts Anonymous, and they go out for coffee. Sometime later these four characters all end up in a park to tangle with an apparent drug runner, David’s anxiety and a far-fetched case of mistaken identity.

From David’s penchant for emptying his beers into a living-room houseplant (for a cheap visual gag — what, is something wrong with the sink?) to Hannah’s compulsion to spill secrets to a stranger (for the convenient delivery of exposition) there’s not a shred of plausibility anywhere onstage. And yet that’s not insurmountable — good comedy often requires a generous suspension of disbelief, as does farce.

But the humor here never rises above the level of a “Three’s Company” episode (Susan: “You’re the one who seems edgy.” Hannah, yelling: “I’m not edgy!”) while none of the scenes are sharp enough for satire. And the introduction of serious topics that we’re asked to approach realistically and sincerely (like post-traumatic stress disorder — David was injured in the Minneapolis bridge collapse of 2007 and remains anguished) can even feel exploitive.

The actors, to their credit, rarely seem fatigued despite the manic mood, with Ms. Bowers and Mr. McRae working particularly hard to bring some nuance to their characters. Lee Savage’s spare set design does a lot with the limited space on Stage II at City Center.
628 2013-04-25 Jim O’Neil, who as chief of United Kingdom Financial Investments has been in charge of the British government’s stakes in two bailed-out banks, will rejoin Bank of America Merrill Lynch....
629 2013-04-25 Under pressure from a populist campaign, the Swiss government has moved to curb migrant numbers from the European Union. The debate in Switzerland has echoed a growing anti-immigration mood elsewhere in the Continent....
630 2013-04-25 Senators John McCain and Charles E. Schumer, who are leading a push for bipartisan immigration legislation, said Thursday that they were aiming to win 70 votes in the Senate and hoped to gain the backing of a majority of senators in both parties....
631 2013-04-25 Verizon is said to have hired advisers to prepare a possible $100 billion bid for Vodafone’s portion of the Verizon Wireless joint venture, Reuters reports. | Janet L. Yellen, a possible Fed successor, has admirers and foes. | Down payment rules...
632 2013-04-25 Getting the Reinhart-Rogoff story wrong....
633 2013-04-25 Apple’s iTunes program can automatically download prepurchased music and videos, but you can turn off the setting on a specific computer....
634 2013-04-25 Yahoo announced that it had acquired the exclusive rights to classic clips of “Saturday Night Live” from 1975 through 2012, Brian Stelter reports in The New York Times....
635 2013-04-25 In the United States, pillarless hartops have more or less gone the way of the Dodo. Cars are safer, but the style’s demise is a shame....
636 2013-04-25 The research potentially marks a new frontier, not only for autism, but also for the significance of the placenta, long considered an after-birth afterthought. Now, only 10 percent to 15 percent of placentas are analyzed, usually after pregnancy complications or a newborn’s death.

Dr. Harvey J. Kliman, a research scientist at the Yale School of Medicine and lead author of the study, said the placenta had typically been given such little respect in the medical community that wanting to study it was considered equivalent to someone in the Navy wanting to scrub ships’ toilets with a toothbrush. But he became fascinated with placentas and noticed that inclusions often occurred with births involving problematic outcomes, usually genetic disorders.

He also noticed that “the more trophoblast inclusions you have, the more severe the abnormality.” In 2006, Dr. Kliman and colleagues published research involving 13 children with autism, finding that their placentas were three times as likely to have inclusions. The new study began when Dr. Kliman, looking for more placentas, contacted the Mind Institute, which is conducting an extensive study, called Marbles, examining potential causes of autism.

“This person came out of the woodwork and said, ‘I want to study trophoblastic inclusions,’ ” Dr. Walker recalled. “Now I’m fairly intelligent and have been an obstetrician for years and I had never heard of them.”

Dr. Walker said she concluded that while “this sounds like a very smart person with a very intriguing hypothesis, I don’t know him and I don’t know how much I trust him.” So she sent him Milky Way bar-size sections of 217 placentas and let him think they all came from babies considered at high risk for autism because an older sibling had the disorder. Only after Dr. Kliman had counted each placenta’s inclusions did she tell him that only 117 placentas came from at-risk babies; the other 100 came from babies with low autism risk.

She reasoned that if Dr. Kliman found that “they all show a lot of inclusions, then maybe he’s a bit overzealous” in trying to link inclusions to autism. But the results, she said, were “astonishing.” More than two-thirds of the low-risk placentas had no inclusions, and none had more than two. But 77 high-risk placentas had inclusions, 48 of them had two or more, including 16 with between 5 and 15 inclusions.

Dr. Walker said that typically between 2 percent and 7 percent of at-risk babies develop autism, and 20 percent to 25 percent have either autism or another developmental delay. She said she is seeing some autism and non-autism diagnoses among the 117 at-risk children in the study, but does not yet know how those cases match with placental inclusions.

Dr. Jonathan L. Hecht, associate professor of pathology at Harvard Medical School, said the study was intriguing and “probably true if it finds an association between these trophoblast inclusions and autism.” But he said that inclusions were the placenta’s way of responding to many kinds of stress, so they might turn out not to be specific enough to predict autism.

Dr. Kliman calls inclusions a “check-engine light, a marker of: something’s wrong, but I don’t know what it is.”

That’s how Chris Mann Sullivan sees it, too. Dr. Sullivan, a behavioral analyst in Morrisville, N.C., was not in the study, but sent her placenta to Dr. Kliman after her daughter Dania, now 3, was born. He found five inclusions. Dr. Sullivan began intensive one-on-one therapy with Dania, who has not been given a diagnosis of autism, but has some relatively mild difficulties.

“What would have happened if I did absolutely nothing, I’m not sure,” Dr. Sullivan said. “I think it’s a great way for parents to say, ‘O.K., we have some risk factors; we’re not going to ignore it.’ ”
637 2013-04-25 A military jury has decided that an Air Force instructor should be jailed for six months and reduced one rank for his role in a sex scandal at a South Texas base. The jury at Keesler Air Force Base in Biloxi convicted Tech. Sgt. Bobby D. Bass of 31 charges on Tuesday. He was a basic training instructor in 2009 at Lackland Air Force Base, where the episodes occurred. Sergeant Bass had faced up to 33 years in prison. The 31 charges included cruelty, assault and abuse. More than 30 Lackland instructors have been investigated in the military sex scandal.
638 2013-04-25 It’s not hard to imagine that President Bashar al-Assad, desperately clinging to power, might use chemical weapons against the Syrian people. He has already pummeled them with warplanes and missiles and shows no signs of ending a bloody onslaught that has lasted more than two years. But while he may be capable of using weapons of mass destruction, there is no proof that he has done so.

There are, however, suspicions and accusations. Israel’s senior military intelligence analyst, Brig. Gen. Itai Brun, told a security conference in Tel Aviv on Tuesday that Syria “has increasingly used chemical weapons.” Another Israeli official speculated that the agent was sarin gas, which Syria is believed to have stockpiled. Sarin gas was used in a 1995 attack on the Tokyo subway system that killed 13 people. Israel’s assertion followed similar charges by Britain and France in a letter last week to the United Nations secretary general, urging a thorough investigation.

It would be alarming if Mr. Assad crossed a line few others have crossed. Within one minute, nerve agents like sarin can trigger eye pain, nausea and vomiting, loss of bowel function, difficulty breathing and muscle weakness. But the case against Mr. Assad, so far, is thin. Experts say the best way to prove that chemical weapons have been used is to collect soil samples promptly at the site and examine suspected victims. That’s hard to do in a war zone, and, so far, Israel, Britain and France have not offered physical proof (Israeli officials cited only photographs of Syrians “foaming at the mouth.”) Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel told Secretary of State John Kerry on Tuesday that he “was not in a position to confirm” his own government’s intelligence assessment. Given such mixed messages, Mr. Kerry and other administration officials have said, that while sharing some of the suspicions of America’s allies, they simply don’t have the facts to make a judgment, much less fashion a policy response.

A coordinated investigation is plainly needed to see whether the charges by Israel, Britain and France hold water. Syria has obviously been of no help. It says it would never use such weapons but has blocked a United Nations investigation. Russia, which unconscionably continues to defend and enable Mr. Assad, should use its influence to secure his cooperation. The countries that have leveled allegations or raised suspicions, including Britain and France, need to provide further documentation.

In August, President Obama warned Mr. Assad that chemical weapons would be a “game changer” and hinted they could prompt a direct American response. Such action might be justified, but only if there is incontrovertible proof of the use of chemical weapons and only if other countries join in the response — should it come to that. The United States badly damaged its credibility when it went to war in Iraq because of a nuclear weapons program that didn’t exist. That unfortunate history cannot be repeated.
639 2013-04-25 “Given the stakes involved, and what we have learned from our own recent experience, intelligence assessments alone are not sufficient,” the White House said in the letter, which was signed by its legislative director, Miguel E. Rodriguez. “Only credible and corroborated facts that provide us with some degree of certainty will guide our decision-making.”

That meticulously legal language did not disguise a thorny political and foreign policy problem for Mr. Obama: he has long resisted the calls to arm the Syrian rebels and has expressed deep doubts about the wisdom of intervening in an Arab nation so riven with sectarian strife, although he has also issued pointed warnings to Syria.

In a statement last summer, Mr. Obama did not offer a technical definition of his “red line” for taking action, but said it was when “we start seeing a whole bunch of weapons moving around or being utilized.” In last month, he said proof that Syria had used such weapons would be a “game changer” for American involvement.

The Pentagon, administration officials said, has prepared the president a menu of options that include commando raids that would secure chemical weapons stockpiles and strikes on Syrian planes from American ships in the Mediterranean. Last year, the United States secretly sent a 150-member task force to to help deal with the possibility that Syria would lose control of its stockpiles. Mr. Obama could also provide more robust aid to the rebels, including weapons.

White House officials gave no indication of what Mr. Obama might do, except to say that any American action would be taken in concert with its allies.

While lawmakers from both parties swiftly declared that the president’s red line had been breached, they differed on what he should do about it.

“The political reality is that he put himself in that position that if the ‘red line’ is crossed — he made it very clear — it would change his behavior,” Senator , Republican of , said. The intelligence “is a compelling argument for the president to take the measures that a lot of us have been arguing for all along,” he said.

The timing of the White House disclosure also suggested the pressures it is facing. It came the same day that the British government said that it had “limited but persuasive” evidence of the use of chemical weapons, and two days after an Israeli military intelligence official asserted that Syria had repeatedly used chemical weapons.

In a letter to the secretary general, , several weeks ago calling for a United Nations investigation, Britain laid out evidence of the attacks in Aleppo and near Damascus as well as an earlier one in Homs.

The letter, a copy of which was obtained by , reported that dozens of victims were treated at hospitals for , and dilation of the pupils, common symptoms of exposure to chemical warfare agents. Doctors reported eye irritation and fatigue after close exposure to the patients.

Citing its links to contacts in the Syrian opposition, Britain said there were reports of 15 deaths in the suburban Damascus attack and up to 10 in Aleppo, where the government and rebels have each accused the other of using chemical weapons.

“Fortunately the deaths have not been high,” Senator Feinstein said, “but there have been deaths.”

The United States has also pushed for a United Nations investigation, but it made clear on Thursday that it has collected enough evidence on its own and with Britain and other countries to make its assessment. An official said the United States was also suspicious about the attack in Homs.

While several officials said the intelligence agencies expressed medium to high confidence about its overall assessment, two intelligence officials noted that there were components of the assessment about which the agencies were less certain. They did not offer details.

Administration officials had begun the week casting doubt on the claims made by the Israeli official, Brig. Gen. Itai Brun, about chemical weapons. “Suspicions are one thing; evidence is another,” Defense Secretary said Wednesday on a visit to .

But by then, a senior administration official said, the intelligence agencies had already become more confident of their assessment, after several weeks of examining the evidence. With Secretary of State scheduled to brief senators on Syria on Thursday, the White House decided on Wednesday evening to get ahead of that meeting.

The administration’s disclosure came in a response to Mr. McCain, a senior member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and the committee’s chairman, Senator of , who wrote to the White House asking whether Mr. Assad or his supporters had used chemical weapons during the two-year-long war.

“Given the fact that we have been developing additional information within our intelligence community,” a White House official said to reporters, “we felt it was the right and prudent thing to do to respond in an unclassified form to this letter.”

Lawmakers generally welcomed the White House’s disclosure, though some suggested that the administration was still inclined to play down the implications of the assessment.

“It is important that we read the intelligence as it is laid out, not as we would like it to be,” said Representative Mike Rogers, Republican of Michigan and the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee.
640 2013-04-25 The consumer product maker Procter & Gamble said on Wednesday that its third-quarter profit rose 6 percent, helped by cost cuts and improvements in North America.

But its fourth-quarter forecast fell short of Wall Street’s expectations as a result of a mixed response to new products and what the company called “choppy” market conditions that led to modest revenue gains.

Shares of the company, which makes products like Tide detergent and Crest toothpaste, fell $4.82, or 5.9 percent, to $77.12 on the weak outlook.

The company is in the middle of a turnaround plan introduced in February 2012. That plan is an attempt to regain market share that the company lost during its aggressive bid to expand in emerging markets like China and India, where P.& G. gets about 40 percent of its revenue. The company’s operations suffered during the expansion.

The company’s plan focuses on its 20 biggest new products, like Tide Pods liquid detergent capsules, and its 10 most profitable emerging markets. P.& G. has also been conducting a major cost-cutting effort aimed at saving $10 billion by 2016. The company is also focusing on introducing new products

P.& G. said its net income for the third quarter rose to $2.57 billion, or 88 cents a share. That compares with net income of $2.41 billion, or 82 cents a share, last year.
641 2013-04-25 The rechristening of Snoop Dogg (né Snoop Doggy Dogg) into Snoop Lion, the extremely chill reggae superhero, at first didn’t seem much like an evolution. He’d long been low-key, long had an air of knowing semi-spirituality, long been preoccupied with smoking weed. Did he really need to don Rastafarian drag too?

But what Snoop Dogg had not long been, he said, was a force for good. “Snoop Dogg was a part of the problem, and Snoop Lion is a part of the solution,” he recently told The Huffington Post (while adding the caveat that Snoop Dogg was not in fact retired). And this wasn’t just a stalemate in his career, but also in the genre. Snoop Lion wanted to make positive, uplifting music, a path he suggested was not available to him in hip-hop.

For the moment, let’s view this supposition generously and sympathetically. Social uplift hasn’t been at the center of hip-hop’s consciousness for, you could argue, almost two decades. There’s plenty of joy in the genre, but much of it is linked to consumerism and sexual bravado. And there are occasional tributaries of social and political awareness — think about the dark commentary on Jay-Z and Kanye West’s “Watch the Throne” — but they’re not the foundation of the house, only decoration.

Assume, then, that Snoop Lion is onto something — that a hole needs to be filled. That said, there has been no less compelling argument for social commentary in pop music than “Reincarnated” (RCA), the Snoop Lion “debut” album, in recent memory. It ranks at or near the top of vexing choices made by once-platinum artists, full of lazy, half-baked pablum that does more harm to Snoop Lion than good for others.

Maybe he doesn’t rap very well anymore and thinks that switching to a degraded form of roots reggae — a slower, more lethargic genre — will obscure that fact. Maybe his intentions are pure, but his capacity to execute them is small. After all, it’s been some time since Snoop was a musical force. In the 2000s, apart from the singles “Drop It Like It’s Hot” and “Sexual Eruption,” he’s been better on television, from “Doggy Fizzle Televizzle” to appearances on “The Martha Stewart Show.”
642 2013-04-25 For the second time in a matter of weeks, a group of researchers reported a link between the food people eat and bacteria in the intestines that can increase the risk of heart attacks.

Two weeks ago, the investigators reported that carnitine, a compound found in red meat, can increase heart disease risk because of the actions of intestinal bacteria. This time they reported that the same thing happens with lecithin, which is abundant in egg yolks.

The lecithin study, published Wednesday in The , is part of a growing appreciation of the role the body’s bacteria play in health and disease. With heart disease, investigators have long focused on the role of diet and heart disease, but expanding the scrutiny to bacteria adds a new dimension.

“ perhaps involves microbes in our gut,” said the study’s lead researcher, Dr. Stanley Hazen, chairman of the department of cellular and molecular medicine at the Lerner Research Institute.

In the case of eggs, the chain of events starts when the body digests lecithin, breaking it into its constituent parts, including the chemical choline. Intestinal bacteria metabolize choline and release a substance that the liver converts to a chemical known as TMAO, for trimethylamine N-oxide. High levels of TMAO in the blood are linked to increased risk of heart attack and .

To show the effect of eggs on TMAO, Dr. Hazen asked volunteers to eat two hard-boiled eggs. They ended up with more TMAO in their blood. But if they first took an to wipe out intestinal bacteria, eggs did not have that effect.
643 2013-04-25 “Boeing has come up with a fix that addresses a very wide range of potential problems,” said Hirohiko Kawakatsu, an air safety official at the Ministry of Transport. “In that regard, we see no problems with the fix.”

Mr. Kawakatsu said he did not expect the ministry to ask for substantial additional changes to the batteries. Japan’s approval would allow All Nippon Airways and Japan Airlines to resume flights of the 787. Together, the two airlines own about half of the 787 jets delivered by Boeing so far.

The Ministry of Transport indicated that it was waiting until Wednesday’s conclusion of a hearing in Washington by the National Transportation Safety Board on its investigation into a battery fire on a 787 parked at Logan Airport in Boston in January as well as the F.A.A.’s initial certification of the lithium-ion batteries in 2007.

To date, investigators have not determined what caused the fire in the battery in Boston or smoke from a 787 battery in Japan in January. In its earnings report on Wednesday, Boeing said its first-quarter earnings jumped 20 percent to $1.1 billion, or $1.44 a share, from $923 million, or $1.22 a share, a year earlier. Revenue fell 3 percent to $18.89 billion from $19.38 billion. That was partly because Boeing had delivered only one 787, because of the battery problems, compared with five in the same quarter a year ago.

Excluding pension costs and other ancillary items, Boeing said its core operating earnings rose 5 percent to $1.87 billion, or $1.73 a share, from $1.77 billion, or $1.40 a share, a year earlier. According to Thomson Reuters, the average analyst estimate was $1.49 a share.

On Wednesday, Boeing also reaffirmed earlier guidance that it expected its core earnings to reach $6.10 to $6.30 a share, on revenue of $82 billion to $85 billion, for all of 2013. Using traditional accounting measures, including the pension costs, it expected earnings of $5 to $5.20 a share for the year.

The company said the cost of dealing with the 787 battery problems was partly offset by increases in first-quarter deliveries of its highly profitable 737 and 777 jets. Cost-cutting also helped its large military business increase its profit despite government budget cuts.

Boeing has never publicly estimated the cost of the battery problem, and its executives declined to provide any numbers on the earnings call. Analysts have said the final tally could be hundreds of millions of dollars after airlines are compensated.

Gregory D. Smith, Boeing’s chief financial officer, told analysts that the first-quarter results included an estimate of the cost of redesigning and replacing the batteries, which he said was “minor in comparison to the overall numbers.”

Mr. McNerney said Boeing’s sales contracts did not require it to compensate airlines for the disruptions to their schedules. But he said there were “a few places where we’ll work with our customers, and there are a variety of ways we can work with them, that can ensure that the disruption doesn’t hurt the operations more than it needs to.”

Analysts said the compensation could include discounts on future jet purchases as well as cash payments.

Mr. Smith said that 15 to 20 percent of the 787 deliveries this year would come in the rest of the second quarter, as Boeing starts to deliver the 25 jets that have been held up at its factories by the battery problems.

The safety board’s hearings on Wednesday had some theatrical moments. The situation reflected the difficulty of investigating a highly technical incident involving three major companies — Boeing; Thales, a French electrical-component maker; and GS Yuasa, the Japanese battery maker — on three different continents whose representatives all speak different languages.

Even simple questions were sometimes lost in translation. At one point, the board’s chairwoman, Deborah A. P. Hersman, questioned a representative from GS Yuasa, who had said the company had already built 14,000 cells similar to the ones used on the Boeing 787 for other applications, including space satellites.

“The 14,000 cells that are similar to this one in design. When you say similar to this one, do you mean the same chemistry?” Ms. Hersman asked.

“The chemistry is different,” Takahiro Shizuki, a manager at GS Yuasa’s large-scale battery unit, said in Japanese through a translator.

“O.K. So when you say there are 14,000 cells that are similar to this that you’ve had experience with, the chemistry is different, they’re not lithium-ion cobalt cells,” said Ms. Hersman, who seemed a little puzzled.

“Well, this is a technological secret, so I cannot say here. But I can just tell you it’s not cobalt.”

“So they are not exactly the same. Are they the same size?”

“No,” he said, then added, “To be precise, the cell production method and structure are the same.”

Under more questioning, Mr. Shizuki then said other cells that GS Yuasa produced for satellites come in different shapes than the ones on the 787, and have only one set of winding electrodes. Those on the 787s have three.
644 2013-04-25 The central bank said last month that in the fourth quarter of last year, 11 financial institutions made total drawdowns of £9.5 billion, or $14.5 billion, under the program, taking the total amount drawn to £13.8 billion. But it said that overall net lending by participating banks was down over the quarter by £2.4 billion, or $3.7 billion.

The changes mean that for every £1 of additional lending by banks to small and medium-size businesses in the rest of 2013, the amount of funding that banks will be able to draw upon increases by £10.

“The Bank of England and Treasury are throwing the kitchen sink at the problem,” Robert Wood, chief economist for Britain at Berenberg Bank in London, said. He added that as well as helping small businesses, the move may lift the British housing market.

“Tight credit conditions have been a key factor in the holding back recovery,” he wrote in a commentary. “This extension should help to solve that. The terms on offer to banks are now about as generous as they could possibly be.”

Mr. Wood added, however, that the move was not a silver bullet, both because of the broader economic situation and because of pressure on banks to build up their capital reserves to reduce risks in future financial crises.

“Firms are not borrowing and investing because the outlook for the economy is weak as strong headwinds, from Euro-worries to weak household income, are keeping confidence under wraps,” he wrote. “The scheme also requires banks to want to lend more. Banks are under heavy pressure from the other arm of the B.O.E. to raise more capital.”

Mervyn A. King, governor of the Bank of England, said in a statement that an extension of the program was “valuable, as it gives banks continued assurance against the risk that market funding rates increase.”

George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer, described the move as a big lift for small and medium-size businesses.

“The Funding for Lending Scheme has already reduced the costs of household mortgages and loans for businesses,” he said in a statement. “This innovative extension will now do even more for small and medium-sized businesses so that they can play their full part in creating new jobs.”

Mr. Osborne has faced increased criticism since the International Monetary Fund raised doubts last week about the pace of his deficit reduction strategy, and Fitch became the second credit ratings agency to strip Britain of its prized triple-A credit rating.

On Thursday, first-quarter economic output data will be released, showing whether Britain’s economy has slipped into a triple-dip recession, as some analysts have predicted.

Chris Leslie, Treasury spokesman for the opposition Labour Party, welcomed the move announced Wednesday but said it fell short.

“Despite scheme after scheme — from the failed Project Merlin deal with the banks to credit easing and now Funding for Lending — net lending to businesses has fallen month by month under this government,” he said. “Labour called for reforms to this scheme last year, so these belated changes are welcome. But with net lending to businesses down by £4.8 billion in the last three months alone, they do not go far enough.”
645 2013-04-25 SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea on Wednesday announced financial aid for 123 South Korean factories left stranded in an industrial zone in North Korea as the North showed no signs of allowing the complex to reopen.

North Korea pulled all its 53,000 workers out of the Kaesong Industrial Complex, located in the North Korean town of the same name, on April 9 out of anger over joint American-South Korean military drills. It also blocked South Korean managers and supplies from entering the joint factory park.

The moves raised doubts over the future of the complex, the last remaining symbol of economic ties between the two Koreas, and pushed some of the South Korean companies that owned factories there to the brink of bankruptcy.

The financial assistance announced on Wednesday included $8 billion in special loans and $14.3 million in bank loans whose repayments will be postponed with government help. The companies will also get tax relief and unemployment allowances if any of their South Korean workers are laid off because of the trouble in Kaesong.

“We will do our best to minimize the damages for the companies that have factories in Kaesong,” said Kim Hyung-suk, a spokesman for the Unification Ministry of South Korea. He indicated that more aid would be provided if the shutdown continued.

The factory park began producing goods eight years ago when South Korea was pushing its “Sunshine Policy” of encouraging economic cooperation with the North to ease military tensions on the divided Korean Peninsula. Dozens of South Korean companies were encouraged to relocate their labor-intensive factories to Kaesong to use lower-cost North Korean workers.

About 900 South Korean managers used to supervise their factories in Kaesong. As of Wednesday, 176 of them still stayed there, hoping the North would send its workers back in soon.
646 2013-04-25 “On paper, Letta is a good candidate,” Mr. Orsina said. “It’s a new generation taking power. But they certainly chose the most moderate young man, somebody who comes from the establishment.”

“It’s going to be hard for him to change the bureaucratic structure, the state machine, because that is the main issue,” Mr. Orsina added, referring to a system whose members have traditionally been appointed through patronage. “If your pan has a hole, changing the handle will do little good.”

Mr. Letta must propose a cabinet and present it to Mr. Napolitano and then Parliament for a confidence vote in the coming days. The strength and duration of his government will depend on how broad a coalition he is able to forge.

Mr. Letta would replace the caretaker prime minister, Mario Monti, who came into office during intense market turmoil in November 2011. Mr. Monti’s yearlong technocratic government improved Italy’s credibility in Europe, but he failed to muster the political support to push through changes to help invigorate Italy’s economy. He fell when Mr. Berlusconi withdrew his support in December.

Mr. Letta is seen as being capable of reuniting the beleaguered Democratic Party with Mr. Monti’s Civic Choice group, which took less than 10 percent of the vote in the national election in February, and the center right. Mr. Letta is the nephew of Mr. Berlusconi’s close aide, Gianni Letta.

In an acknowledgment of growing popular anger at politicians, Mr. Letta said Wednesday that he wanted to reduce the number of lawmakers and restore confidence in Italy’s political class, which is running at an all-time low. The Five Star Movement of Beppe Grillo, a former comedian, won a quarter of the vote in February on a populist platform of disgust with the status quo.

Like the current Greek government, a three-party coalition in which historical enemies on the left and right have joined together out of fear of extinction and a lack of viable alternatives, Mr. Letta is potentially the last gasp of a political cycle that in Italy began in the early 1990s with the collapse of the postwar political order and the rise of Mr. Berlusconi.

That much was clear last weekend when, in a sign of a profound lack of consensus or imagination, a deeply divided Parliament elected Mr. Napolitano, 87, to a second term as president — after failing to settle on a new face for the first time in Italy’s postwar republic.

In the turmoil, the Democratic Party, which had placed first in the February election but without a strong enough majority to govern, collapsed. Its leader, Pier Luigi Bersani, quit after his party’s presidential candidates failed — and after two months of aborted attempts to form a governing coalition with the Five Star Movement, which has said it will not ally with anyone.

Mr. Bersani had rejected the overtures of Mr. Berlusconi to form a coalition with his center-right People of Liberty party. Mr. Letta, under the watchful eye of Mr. Napolitano, who has threatened to resign if politicians do not snap to attention, will have no such choice.

But that does not mean that Mr. Berlusconi is strong. Indeed, his party is splintering, held together only by the force of his personality.

That poses a huge challenge for Mr. Letta. “I think Enrico Letta has to show he has a lot of political personality, because it’s very, very hard to govern with Berlusconi without being put in a difficult situation,” said Stefano Folli, a political commentator for the business newspaper Il Sole 24 Ore.

If Mr. Letta fails to form a coalition, Mr. Napolitano has the power to dissolve Parliament and call a new election, but analysts said that was a less likely outcome in the short term because new voting might yield the same divided results.

A growing number of Italians have lost patience with a political class they see as disconnected from a worsening economic reality.

“Italians are worried about short-term contracts in a stagnant job market, unemployment and this dead economy,” said Mario Vendemia, 31, whose temporary employment contract in a financial firm will be up next year. “And what do politicians do? They take time, argue, refuse to form a government, cannot choose a president.

“Napolitano is an honest and respectable man, but he is just a temporary patch to very serious issues,” Mr. Vendemia added. “The lack of strategy is what worries me the most: no plan to restart the economy, no plan to give us a sense of the future.”
647 2013-04-25 SYDNEY, Australia — The federal police in Australia have arrested the professed leader of a prominent international hacking collective known as LulzSec, which is perhaps best known for its assertions of being behind a cyberattack that shut down the Central Intelligence Agency’s public Web site in 2011.

The Australian Federal Police said that they arrested the 24-year-old Australian citizen on Tuesday night in connection with an attack on an unspecified Australian government Web site this month. The unidentified man, who faces up to 10 years in prison if convicted on two hacking-related charges, is said to have used his position as an I.T. specialist at a Sydney-based company to access confidential information from clients including the Australian government.

“The A.F.P. has zero tolerance for this kind of behavior,” Glen McEwen, manager of cybercrime operations for the Australian Federal Police, said at a news conference on Wednesday. “There were no denials of his claims of being the leader.”

“The A.F.P. believes this man’s skill sets and access to this kind of information presented a considerable risk to Australian society,” Mr. McEwen added.

LulzSec, which draws its name from a combination of “lulz” — an Internet coinage derived from “lol” for “laughing out loud” — and “security,” is a diffuse online community of so-called hacktivists.
648 2013-04-26 Zynga &#x2019;s latest quarterly earnings report, released on Wednesday, came in the typical format and was accompanied with the usual financial tables investors expect.&#xa;   &#xa;But the social gaming company that counts FarmVille among its gam...
649 2013-04-26 &#x201C;Collapse&#x201D; is quite a bold title for a play that proves so trite. Built on unbelievable situations and uninspired jokes, the script holds enough humor to sustain a sitcom. But as  this comedy  stretches toward an hour and a half, the...
650 2013-04-26 Robert Earl Holding, a Western entrepreneur who made his first fortune in the 1950s running a 24-hour service station in an otherwise desolate stretch of Wyoming and became a billionaire whose assets included  oil  refineries and ski slopes, among...
651 2013-04-26 BARSEL--Jan. The Board of Governors and the Members of Glen Oaks Club express our deepest sorrow at the passing of Jan, wife of our esteemed member, Ely, and extend our heartfelt sympathy to her family. Board of Governors Michael Mann President...
652 2013-04-26 Mark Zuckerberg, co-founder of the social network, exercised options worth more than $2 billion after its public offering, according to a company filing, and sold about half the shares to pay taxes....
653 2013-04-26 Tara Siegel Bernard, a reporter for The Times, helped Jennifer and Scott Bartone set aside a day to fine-tune finances and make headway on the money-related tasks that never seem to get done.
654 2013-04-26 A new study found that by tracking certain search terms in Google Trends, researchers could predict whether the Dow Jones industrial average would rise or fall the following week....
655 2013-04-26 “House of Cards” was part of Netflix’s effort to overcome a bungled attempt to adapt to the digital landscape. James B. Stewart, a columnist for The New York Times, discusses the company’s turnaround.
656 2013-04-26 The numbers aren’t good, and yet “Community” might be renewed....
657 2013-04-26 Chevrolet announced today that the 2014 Corvette Stingray starts at just under $52,000....
658 2013-04-26 Proof of cloud computing’s impact on the tech industry: Some big incumbent firms, known for expensive in-house products and zealous guarding of their intellectual property, are claiming the open source religion....
659 2013-04-26 The Smith-Ninth Street station, elevated more than 80 feet above Gowanus, Brooklyn, had been shuttered for nearly two years....
660 2013-04-26 Subaru plans to recall 10,000 Foresters over potentially pedal-obstructing floor mats, and Schneider Electric USA, a maker of E.V. chargers, is calling back charging units with potentially defective connectors....
661 2013-04-26 A look at mounting pressure on the Obama administration after the White House said on Thursday that it believed the Syrian government had used chemical weapons.
662 2013-04-26 A new study has found that obesity may increase the risk of developing prostate cancer....
663 2013-04-26 The research library and exhibition space in Tulsa, Okla., houses Woody Guthrie’s archives....
664 2013-04-26 Several prominent companies are taking advantage new S.E.C. rules that allow the use of social media to disclose financial information, though others are still skeptical, Michelle Leder and Michael J. de la Merced report in The New York Times....
665 2013-04-26 Economic hard times have failed to dent the enthusiasm of Europeans for beauty treatments. But health experts are sounding alarms about potential health risks of some of those treatments....
666 2013-04-26 For the single-location thriller to work, every other element in the movie must compensate for the monotony of its unchanging surroundings. I wish I could tell you that “The Numbers Station” rises to that challenge, but despite nabbing John Cusack for its lead, this dreary spy drama is as flat and airless as the concrete bunker in which it unfolds.

Though supposedly used by intelligence services to send encrypted messages to foreign agents, that bunker is so poorly lighted that it’s a wonder that anything decipherable is ever transmitted.

Gamely squinting through the gloom is Katherine (Malin Akerman), a flowy-haired cryptologist who broadcasts codes into a microphone behind a plexiglass panel, like a D.J. who’s unaware that all the clubbers have gone home. Watching over her is Emerson (Mr. Cusack), a broody C.I.A. hit man exiled to the station after failing to kill an innocent witness to one of his assassinations.

So much for the setup, which is all we will learn about either character. Consequently, their peril, when they arrive one morning to find the station breached and bloodied bodies adding pops of color to the gray flooring, carries no emotional weight. Managing neither espionage nor romance convincingly, the director, Kasper Barfoed, leaves Mr. Cusack no outlet for his signature quick-tongued charm, relying on a script (by F. Scott Frazier) that hews almost exclusively to clipped exposition.

As a result, Emerson’s doleful flirting with Katherine releases less heat than a Match.com profile; even when tending her gashed and trembling thigh, he seems more intrigued by the shrapnel in the wound than the flesh beneath his hands.

“The Numbers Station” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). Characters suffer bullets, explosions and a fire extinguisher in the face. Viewers just suffer.
667 2013-04-26 Nevertheless, the board will review the accusations and make public the results, said Jeffrey Johnson, a board member and retired fire chief from Oregon who is chief executive of the Western Fire Chiefs Association.

“Our highest priority has always been, and continues to be, serving the public safety community,” Mr. Johnson said.

Several public safety trade groups, including the International Association of Fire Chiefs, the Metropolitan Fire Chiefs Association and the Major Cities Chiefs Association, a police group, issued statements after the meeting supporting the board and its outreach process.

Sheriff Fitzgerald’s accusations, which were first reported by the Web site fiercebroadbandwireless.com, are noteworthy because public safety officials were crucial to getting Congress to approve the system’s financing in February 2012. But they are outnumbered on the board, holding four seats compared with six members who are former executives of telecommunications companies, including the board’s chairman, Samuel Ginn. He started a wireless company that was a predecessor to Verizon Wireless.

Telecommunications companies stand to reap billions of dollars from the construction and operation of the system. The remainder of the board includes a former mayor of Denver; a government information technology expert; and representatives from the Homeland Security and Justice Departments and the Office of Management and Budget.

Sheriff Fitzgerald said that the board’s former telecommunications executives were driving the planning of the network, possibly in a way that favors “their commercial vision rather than the vision of the public safety users,” according to a written copy of his remarks circulated at the meeting. “This is supposed to be our network.”

One of the board’s first acts last year was to structure a Public Safety Advisory Committee to solicit feedback from first responders, who will be using the network to respond to emergencies.

The network is necessary, proponents say, to allow first responders from disparate jurisdictions or departments to communicate with one another at the site of an emergency.

During the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, New York Police Department commanders at the World Trade Center could not communicate by radio with Fire Department officials because their systems were incompatible. The same problem surfaced when emergency personnel from other cities responded after Hurricane Katrina and other disasters.

Before the FirstNet board organized the public safety advisers group, however, preliminary design alternatives for the FirstNet system were outlined and presented to the board by F. Craig Farrill, a former telecommunications executive who once served as chief technical officer for Vodafone AirTouch, also a predecessor to Verizon Wireless. The board then put out its alternatives for public comment.

One plan called for the network to be built through partnerships with the companies that operate many of the commercial wireless systems that are already in place.

Sheriff Fitzgerald said that the board produced no analysis of alternatives to the plan’s “heavy dependence upon commercial wireless carriers.”

But board members say that no decisions about the system’s structure have been made, and that any systems sketched out so far are more akin to outlines than blueprints.

“The board has been really aggressive about engaging the Public Safety Advisory Committee,” said Mr. Johnson, who was appointed as the board’s liaison to the public safety advisers. “As a member of public safety, I feel listened to.”

Sheriff Fitzgerald also alleged conduct — like private meetings of groups of directors — that could violate federal laws requiring government bodies to make their actions transparent to the public. The FirstNet board has met publicly five times so far.

Mr. Johnson said that all of the board’s meetings “have followed that guideline” requiring a transparent process.
668 2013-04-26 To say that Justin Zackham’s farce “The Big Wedding” takes the low road doesn’t begin to do justice to the sheer awfulness of this star-stuffed, potty-mouthed fiasco directed by the screenwriter of “The Bucket List.” This is a movie in which the racket kicked up by various couples “boinking,” to use its favorite euphemism, is enough to wake up an entire city.

The noisemakers include Robert De Niro and Diane Keaton, playing Don and Ellie Griffin, a successful sculptor and his former wife, who reconnect at the nuptial celebrations of their adopted son, Alejandro (Ben Barnes), and his sweetheart, Missy (Amanda Seyfried). “Boink” is the mildest word these two affluent 60-to-70-something characters use in a screenplay (inspired by the 2006 French-Swiss comedy “Mon Frère Se Marie”) that rains vulgarity.

Alejandro’s parents are in an uproar because his Colombian birth mother, Madonna (Patricia Rae), a strait-laced, conservative Roman Catholic, and his sister Nuria (Ana Ayora) are attending the wedding. Because Don and his longtime companion, Bebe (Susan Sarandon), have never married, he and Ellie feel obligated to put on a charade of happy matrimony to impress Madonna, who doesn’t approve of divorce.

Don and Ellie’s other children, Lyla (Katherine Heigl), who is separating from her husband, and Jared (Topher Grace), a prudish 29-year-old doctor who is saving himself for marriage, rattle around the premises. No sooner does the hot-blooded Nuria lay eyes on Jared than she makes a beeline for him by stripping naked and diving into the pond outside Don’s Connecticut manse. The tone of the movie is set early, when Ellie arrives just in time to find a Viagra-wired Don about to give oral sex to Bebe, spread-eagle on a kitchen table.

“The Big Wedding” might be diverting if the movie were coherent and its characters had any dimension. But the screenplay is chopped up into smutty sound bites constructed around the notion that casual obscenity delivered by respected actors of a certain age is hilarious. But it’s just embarrassing.

“The Big Wedding” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian) for language, sexual situations and brief nudity.
669 2013-04-26 ALBANY (AP) — A conservative group wants a ruling on whether Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo’s girlfriend, the Food Network star Sandra Lee, should disclose financial information as if she were the governor’s wife.

The group, New Yorkers for Constitutional Freedoms, asked the state ethics commission on Thursday for the ruling.

The request came after the commission authorized Ms. Lee to use state aircraft with the governor on official business; it deemed her a “domestic partner” in the “first family.”

The commission does not require Ms. Lee to file financial data intended to flag potential conflicts of interest involving elected officials, and says the Legislature would have to change any requirement.
670 2013-04-26 The State Department denied the daughter of President Raúl Castro of Cuba permission to attend a gay rights conference in Philadelphia, where she was to receive an award next week. The president’s daughter, Mariela Castro, director of Cuba’s National Center for Sex Education, is currently attending United Nations meetings in New York on a diplomatic visa. Cuban diplomats are prohibited from traveling farther than 25 miles from New York without permission from the State Department. American diplomats in Havana face a similar restriction. Ms. Castro, above, had applied for travel documents to attend the Equality Forum 2013 Summit next week. The State Department denied the request without explanation, said Malcolm Lazin, the forum’s executive director. “We were shocked,” he said. “Ms. Castro is recognized internationally as a remarkable advocate” for the rights of people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgendered in Cuba.
671 2013-04-26 Warren Lichtenstein, a hedge fund tycoon, filed a lawsuit accusing Andrew Cader, an ex-Goldman Sachs executive, of conspiring with Annabelle Bond to secure more child-support payments for the British socialite.
672 2013-04-26 A British socialite is in a legal spat over whether she connived to get bigger child-support payments from the financier Warren Lichtenstein.
673 2013-04-26 “I think a lot of people were disappointed,” said J. Michael Kelly, who retired last year as the Agriculture Department’s associate general counsel. “You can’t spend a lot of years trying to defend those cases honestly, then have the tables turned on you and not question the wisdom of settling them in a broad sweep.”

The compensation effort sprang from a desire to redress what the government and a federal judge agreed was a painful legacy of bias against African-Americans by the Agriculture Department. But an examination by shows that it became a runaway train, driven by racial politics, pressure from influential members of Congress and law firms that stand to gain more than $130 million in fees. In the past five years, it has grown to encompass a second group of African-Americans as well as Hispanic, female and Native American farmers. In all, more than 90,000 people have filed claims. The total cost could top $4.4 billion.

From the start, the claims process prompted allegations of widespread fraud and criticism that its very design encouraged people to lie: because relatively few records remained to verify accusations, claimants were not required to present documentary evidence that they had been unfairly treated or had even tried to farm. Agriculture Department reviewers found reams of suspicious claims, from nursery-school-age children and pockets of urban dwellers, sometimes in the same handwriting with nearly identical accounts of discrimination.

Yet those concerns were played down as the compensation effort grew. Though the government has started requiring more evidence to support some claims, even now people who say they were unfairly denied loans can collect up to $50,000 with little documentation.

As a senator, supported expanding compensation for black farmers, and then as president he pressed for $1.15 billion to pay those new claims. Other groups quickly escalated their demands for similar treatment. In a letter to the White House in September 2009, Senator of , a leading Hispanic Democrat, threatened to mount a campaign “outside the Beltway” if Hispanic farmers were not compensated.

The groups found a champion in the new agriculture secretary, . New settlements would provide “a way to neutralize the argument that the government favors black farmers over Hispanic, Native American or women farmers,” an internal department memorandum stated in March 2010.

The payouts pitted Mr. Vilsack and other political appointees against career lawyers and agency officials, who argued that the legal risks did not justify the costs.

Beyond that, they said it was legally questionable to sidestep Congress and compensate the Hispanic and female farmers out of a special Treasury Department account, known as the Judgment Fund. The fund is restricted to payments of court-approved judgments and settlements, as well as to out-of-court settlements in cases where the government faces imminent litigation that it could lose. Some officials argued that tapping the fund for the farmers set a bad precedent, since most had arguably never contemplated suing and might not have won if they had.

“The fund is not politically accessible, it is only legally accessible,” said David Aufhauser, the Treasury Department’s general counsel from 2001 to 2003. “Otherwise, it is a license to raid the till.”

A 2010 settlement with Native Americans was contentious for its own reasons. Justice Department lawyers argued that the $760 million agreement far outstripped the potential cost of a defeat in court. Agriculture officials said not that many farmers would file claims.

That prediction proved prophetic. Only $300 million in claims were filed, leaving nearly $400 million in the control of plaintiffs’ lawyers to be distributed among a handful of nonprofit organizations serving Native American farmers. Two and a half years later, the groups have yet to be chosen. It is unclear how many even exist.

The Times’s examination was based on thousands of pages of court and confidential government documents, as well as interviews with dozens of claimants, lawyers, former and current government officials and others involved in the cases over the past 14 years. Many officials spoke on the condition of anonymity, citing rules against disclosing internal government deliberations and, in a few cases, the desire not to be drawn into a racially charged controversy.

Mr. Vilsack has said the compensation effort ushers in “a new chapter of civil rights at ,” where “we celebrate diversity instead of discriminate against it.”

In an interview, he said the payments had been fully justified and carefully controlled. Fraud has been a “really, really small part of it,” he added, pointing out that so far, three of every 10 claims had been rejected and only three claimants had been convicted of fraud.

“We weren’t just writing checks for the heck of it,” Mr. Vilsack said. “People were not treated fairly, and in fact, even today there are damages as a result of folks who weren’t treated fairly.”

Acting Associate Attorney General Tony West, who supervised the civil division and oversaw the handling of the cases, canceled an interview. Attorney General also declined to comment.

Instead, the department provided senior officials, permitted to speak only on the condition of anonymity, who said that resolving the lawsuits averted potentially higher costs from an onslaught of new plaintiffs or losses in court. They also said the attorney general had broad discretion to settle litigation. “It was a priority for the administration to resolve the long-standing discrimination cases,” a senior official said, and give “farmers who believed they had been discriminated against a chance to seek redress.” Career Justice Department lawyers, who participated in that interview, declined to answer when asked if they favored the outcome of their cases, saying their advice is confidential by law.

Senior White House and Justice Department officials also defended the use of the Judgment Fund. “Questions were certainly raised about whether this was something you could use the Judgment Fund to pay for,” a senior White House official said. “They considered the relevant legal standards and concluded it was.”

Mr. Vilsack blamed disgruntled Agriculture Department employees for the criticism of the payouts, saying some simply refused to acknowledge the pervasiveness of discrimination. “There are a lot of agendas here, and you are opening up a Pandora’s box,” he said.

But critics, including some of the original black plaintiffs, say that is precisely what the government did when it first agreed to compensate not only those who had proof of bias, but those who had none. “Why did they let people get away with all this stuff?” asked Abraham Carpenter Jr., who farms 1,200 acres in Grady, Ark. “Anytime you are going to throw money up in the air, you are going to have people acting crazy.”

Farmers routinely borrow money to carry themselves from high-cost planting season to harvest time; lack of can lead to barren fields. The original lawsuit, Pigford v. Glickman, filed in federal court in Washington in August 1997, argued that the Agriculture Department’s credit bureau, now called the Farm Service Agency, routinely denied or limited loans to black farmers while freely distributing them to whites.

Two government reports that year found no evidence of ongoing, systemic discrimination. The reported that 16 percent of minority farmers were denied loans, compared with 10 percent of white farmers, but traced the difference to objective factors like bad credit. An Agriculture Department study also found “no consistent picture of disparity” over the previous two years.

But the study concluded that decades of discrimination before then had cost African-American farmers significant amounts of land and income. Black farmers gave heart-rending accounts of loan officers who withheld promised money while crops withered, who repossessed their land and sold it to white cronies, who advised them to milk cows for white farmers rather than sow their own crops.

Written discrimination complaints had fallen on deaf ears at the Agriculture Department, where the civil rights office had been disbanded during the Reagan administration.

John W. Boyd Jr., a farmer who leads the National Black Farmers Association, was among those who pressed President to settle the case. At a White House meeting in December 1997, Mr. Boyd said, he recounted how a loan officer denied him $7,500 and then handed a $150,000 check to a white farmer who had not even filled out an application.

The same loan officer spat at him, he said, and later claimed that he had missed a spittoon. It was, Mr. Boyd said in an interview, “the most degrading thing that ever happened to me.”

Just five months after the lawsuit was filed, and without the investigative step of discovery, the Justice Department opened settlement negotiations.

There were certainly legal reasons to resolve the case. The presiding federal judge, , was clearly unsympathetic to the government’s arguments. Moreover, the Justice Department was barred from appealing his certification of the lawsuit as a class action until after the case was over. That set the stage for a potentially long and costly battle.

Still, “it was more a political decision than a litigation decision,” said one lawyer familiar with the administration’s stance. “The administration was genuinely sympathetic to the plight of these farmers.”

Mr. Clinton asked Carol Willis, then a senior adviser to the who was known for his expertise in black voter turnout, to get involved. Mr. Willis said the president wanted to make sure his home state, , benefited. Mr. Willis said he recruited Othello Cross, a Pine Bluff lawyer, to join the plaintiffs’ legal team.

“It had been wrong for many years,” Mr. Willis said. “Clinton figured he had to try to right it.”

He initially limited the class of potential claimants to African-Americans who had farmed between 1981 and 1996 and had previously filed written discrimination complaints. But his final order significantly expanded the class, admitting those who had only “attempted to farm.” And it threw out the requirement for a written bias complaint, stating that an oral complaint was sufficient if someone other than a family member attested to it in an affidavit.

The Agriculture Department was partly to blame for the lack of records. It routinely discarded failed loan applications after three years, and it had badly mismanaged written discrimination complaints. Ninety percent of the farmers had no records either, plaintiffs’ lawyers said.

The billion-dollar settlement, the judge’s opinion said, was designed to provide “those class members with little or no documentary evidence with a virtually automatic cash payment of $50,000.” Those with documentary proof could seek higher awards, a tack ultimately chosen by fewer than 1 percent of applicants.

Justice Department lawyers worried about false claims. But the lawyer familiar with the Clinton administration’s stance said they had decided that “it was better to err on the side of giving money to people who might not qualify if they went through litigation than to deny money to people who actually deserve it.”

Randi Roth, the settlement’s court-appointed monitor, said that whatever its shortcomings, the accord charted the most efficient legal remedy where records no longer existed. “The formula they agreed to had the checks and balances of an adversarial process with multiple levels of review,” she said.

John C. Coffee Jr., a Columbia Law School professor and specialist in complex litigation, said that not requiring documentary evidence “was quite unusual, but there were also special circumstances.”

Still, he said, “I don’t think they realized how much of an incentive they were creating for claims to multiply. It is a little bit like putting out milk for a kitten.

“The next night, you get 15 kittens.”

Delton Wright, a Pine Bluff justice of the peace, recalled what happened after word of the settlement reached his impoverished region: “It just went wild. Some people took the money who didn’t even have a garden in the ground.” He added, “They didn’t make it hard at all, and that’s why people jumped on it.”

Mr. Wright, whose family owns farmland outside Pine Bluff, won his claim. So did two other applicants whose claims were virtually identical to his, with the same rounded handwriting, the same accusations of bias and similar descriptions of damages suffered.

Now 57, with his memory weakened by what he said was a recent stroke, Mr. Wright said he could not recall details of the discrimination he encountered, much less explain the apparent duplicate claims.

But Mr. Cross, the Pine Bluff lawyer, has his suspicions. “It got out of control,” said Mr. Cross, adding that he had filed about 1,500 claims, including Mr. Wright’s and the apparent duplicates. He estimated that up to 15 percent of Arkansas claims were fraudulent.

Claimants described how, at packed meetings, lawyers’ aides would fill out forms for them on the spot, sometimes supplying answers “to keep the line moving,” as one put it.

Even his own staff was complicit, Mr. Cross said; he discovered that four employees had been slipping unverified claims into stacks of papers that he signed. He did not inform the court monitor, he said, because “the damage was done.”

On two floors of the Cotton Annex building in Washington, a 300-member team from the Farm Service Agency reviewed claims before adjudicators rendered their final decisions. In recent interviews, 15 current and former Agriculture Department employees who reviewed or responded to claims said the loose conditions for payment had opened the floodgates to fraud.

“It was the craziest thing I have ever seen,” one former high-ranking department official said. “We had applications for kids who were 4 or 5 years old. We had cases where every single member of the family applied.” The official added, “You couldn’t have designed it worse if you had tried.”

Carl K. Bond, a former Agriculture Department farm loan manager in , reviewed thousands of claims over six years.

“I probably could have got paid,” said Mr. Bond, who is black. “You knew it was wrong, but what could you do? Who is going to listen to you?”

Accusations of unfair treatment could be checked against department files if claimants had previously received loans. But four-fifths of successful claimants had never done so. For them, “there was no way to refute what they said,” said Sandy Grammer, a former program analyst from who reviewed claims for three years. “Basically, it was a rip-off of the American taxpayers.”

The true dimensions of the problem are impossible to gauge. The Agriculture Department insists that the names and addresses of claimants are protected under privacy provisions. But department data released in response to a Freedom of Information request by The Times are telling. The data cover 15,601 African-Americans who filed successful claims and were paid before 2009.

In 16 ZIP codes in , Arkansas, and North Carolina, the number of successful claimants exceeded the total number of farms operated by people of any race in 1997, the year the lawsuit was filed. Those applicants received nearly $100 million.

In Maple Hill, a struggling town in southeastern North Carolina, the number of people paid was nearly four times the total number of farms. More than one in nine African-American adults there received checks. In Little Rock, Ark., a confidential list of payments shows, 10 members of one extended family collected a total of $500,000, and dozens of other successful claimants shared addresses, phone numbers or close family connections.

Thirty percent of all payments, totaling $290 million, went to predominantly urban counties — a phenomenon that supporters of the settlement say reflects black farmers’ migration during the 15 years covered by the lawsuit. Only 11 percent, or $107 million, went to what the Agriculture Department classifies as “completely rural” counties.

A fraud hot line to the Agriculture Department’s inspector general rang off the hook. The office referred 503 cases involving 2,089 individuals to the

The F.B.I. opened 60 criminal investigations, a spokesman said, but prosecutors abandoned all but a few for reasons including a lack of evidence or proof of criminal intent. Former federal officials said the bar for a successful claim was so low that it was almost impossible to show criminality.

In Arkansas, prosecutors rejected a test case against a Pine Bluff police officer who had admitted lying on his claim form. Paula J. Casey, the United States attorney in Arkansas in 2000, said that singling out one individual raised questions of selective prosecution.

“The defendant could go to the jury and say: ‘Everybody else did this. Why am I standing here?’ ” she said.

The claim period ended in late 1999, although the adjudication process dragged on for a dozen years. But the gusher of claims had only begun.

“Once those checks started hitting the mailboxes, people couldn’t believe it,” said Mr. Wright, the Pine Bluff justice of the peace. “Then it dawned on them. ‘If Joe Blow got a check, I can get one.’ ”

Some 66,000 claims poured in after the 1999 deadline. Noting that the government had given “extensive” notice, Judge Friedman ruled the door closed to late filers. “That is simply how class actions work,” he wrote.

But it was not how politics worked. The next nine years brought a concerted effort to allow the late filers to seek awards. Career Agriculture Department officials warned that they might be even more problematic than initial claimants: in one ZIP code in , , nearly everyone in two adjoining apartment buildings had filed, according to the former high-ranking agency official.

President was unreceptive to farmers’ repeated protests. But Congress was not: legislators from both parties, including Mr. Obama as a senator in 2007, sponsored bills to grant the late filers relief.

Mr. Boyd said Mr. Obama’s support led him to throw the backing of his 109,000-member black farmers’ association behind the Obama presidential primary campaign. Hilary Shelton, the ’s chief lobbyist, said Mr. Obama’s stance helped establish him as a defender of the concerns of rural African-American communities.

Public criticism came primarily from conservative news outlets like Breitbart.com and from Congressional conservatives like Representative Steve King, Republican of , who described the program as rife with fraud. Few Republicans or Democrats supported him. Asked why, Mr. King said, “Never underestimate the fear of being called a racist.”

Congress finally inserted a provision in the 2008 allowing late filers to bring new lawsuits, with their claims to be decided by the same standard of evidence as before. The bill also declared a sense of Congress that minority farmers’ bias claims and lawsuits should be quickly and justly resolved.

Congress overrode a veto by Mr. Bush, who objected to other provisions in the bill. But as Mr. Bush left Washington, Congress had appropriated only $100 million for compensation, hardly enough to pay for processing claims.

Within months of taking office, President Obama promised to seek an additional $1.15 billion. In November 2010, Congress approved the funds. To protect against fraud, legislators ordered the Government Accountability Office and the Agriculture Department’s inspector general to audit the payment process.

But simultaneously, the Agriculture Department abandoned the costly and burdensome review process it had applied to earlier claims. As a result, according to internal government memos, the percentage of successful claims is expected to exceed that in the original 1999 settlement. More than 40,000 claims have been filed and are under review.

In November, the G.A.O. concluded that antifraud provisions provided “reasonable assurance” of weeding out false claims, saying more than 3,100 suspicious applications had been identified. But as before, it noted, late filers need not document claims, leaving adjudicators to rely on assertions that they have “no way of independently verifying.”

The Bush Justice Department had rebuffed all efforts to settle the parallel discrimination suits brought by Native American, Hispanic and female farmers. But now, the Obama administration’s efforts to compensate African-American farmers intensified pressure from members of Congress and lobbyists to settle those cases as well.

Within the administration, Secretary Vilsack, a former Iowa governor who had briefly run for president, found an ally in Mr. West, who had been named an assistant attorney general after serving as a major Obama fund-raiser. Sweeping settlements with the three groups, Mr. West argued, would eliminate legal risks and smooth relations between the Agriculture Department and important constituencies.

The Native-American case was clearly problematic for the government. The federal judge overseeing the case, , had already certified the plaintiffs as a class, although only to seek changes in government practices and policies. He postponed a decision on whether they could seek monetary damages as a class.

But Justice Department litigators were far from unarmed. If they lost on damages, case law suggested that the decision might be reversed. Depositions had revealed many of the individual farmers’ complaints to be shaky. And federal judges had already scornfully rejected the methodology of the plaintiffs’ expert, a former Agriculture Department official named Patrick O’Brien, in the women’s case.

Mr. O’Brien contended that white farmers were two to three times as likely as Native Americans to receive federal farm loans in the 1980s and 1990s than were other farmers. But the government’s expert, Gordon C. Rausser, a professor of economics and statistics at the , had produced a 340-page report stating that Mr. O’Brien’s conclusions were based “in a counter-factual world” and that Native Americans had generally fared as well as white male farmers.

Professor Rausser was astounded when, with both sides gearing up for trial in late 2009, the government began settlement negotiations. “If they had gone to trial, the government would have prevailed,” he said.

“It was just a joke,” he added. “I was so disgusted. It was simply buying the support of the Native-Americans.”

Agriculture officials predicted that only 5,300 Native Americans were likely to file claims. The plaintiffs’ lawyers, whose fees were to be based on a percentage of the settlement, estimated up to 19,000 claims.

Only 4,400 people filed claims, with 3,600 winning compensation at a cost of roughly $300 million. That left $460 million unspent — of which roughly $400 million under the terms of the settlement must be given to nonprofit groups that aid Native American farmers.

Ross Racine, the director of the Intertribal Agricultural Council, based in , said his organization, with an annual budget of just $1 million, is perhaps the biggest eligible group. But many others are lining up to share the windfall, he said.

“Everybody is looking at this money on the table and saying, ‘Give me some because I am a good guy,’ ” he said.

The remaining $60.8 million will go to the plaintiffs’ lawyers, led by the Washington firm Cohen, Milstein, Sellers & Toll. In court papers, the firm argued that the size of the payment was justified partly by the fact that the settlement nearly equaled the maximum estimate of economic damages. Joseph M. Sellers, the lead counsel, acknowledged the unspent amount was unexpectedly big. But “absent a court order,” he said, “we don’t intend to return it.”

On Feb. 19, 2010, Alan Wiseman, a lawyer for the Hispanic farmers, strode into Federal District Court in Washington unusually upbeat. he told Judge James Robertson, “it takes divine intervention” to move the government.

Over the past decade, his case had not gone well. Nor had the parallel lawsuit brought by female farmers.

Judge Robertson had refused to certify either group as a class. The United States Court of Appeals had upheld him, stating in 2006 that the Hispanic plaintiffs had been denied loans “for a variety of reasons, including inadequate farm plans and lack of funds.” Nor had female farmers proved a pattern of bias, the court found.

The Justice Department’s lawyers had definitively ruled out any group-style settlement. “Some of these folks have never made a loan payment in their entire history with U.S.D.A.,” Lisa A. Olson, the lead government litigator against the 81 Hispanic plaintiffs, told Judge Robertson in August 2009. “There may even be folks who are under criminal investigation.”

Michael Sitcov, assistant director of the Justice Department’s federal program branch, told the judge that senior department officials agreed with career litigators that the cases should be fought one by one.

But members of the Congressional Hispanic caucus and a group of eight Democratic senators, led by Mr. Menendez, were lobbying the White House to move in the opposite direction. They grew increasingly agitated as the plaintiffs’ cases appeared to falter.

In a letter to Mr. Obama in June 2009, the senators noted that black farmers stood to receive $2.25 billion in compensation, but that Hispanic farmers, who alleged the same kind of discrimination, had gotten nothing. Should that continue, Mr. Menendez wrote that September, “Hispanic farmers and ranchers, and their supporters, will be reaching out to community and industry leaders outside of the Beltway in order to bring wider attention to this problem.”

The issue came to a head after the Supreme Court refused to reopen the issue of class certification. The next month, on Feb. 11, 2010, Daniel J. Meltzer, principal deputy White House counsel, held the first of three meetings at which resolution of the case was discussed, records and interviews show. Among the attendees were senior Justice and Agriculture Department officials, including Mr. West, Associate Attorney General Thomas J. Perrelli, and Krysta Harden, then the assistant agriculture secretary for Congressional relations.

Settlement negotiations began the next week. Judge Robertson expressed surprise at the news, “given the history of the case.”

The decision to compensate potentially tens of thousands of Hispanics and women out of the Judgment Fund averted what was likely to be an uphill struggle with Congress. Nearly a year after the White House had asked for money to compensate the second wave of African-American farmers, Congress was still sitting on its hands. But there was sharp disagreement within the government over whether the claims from Hispanics and women met the Judgment Fund’s “imminent litigation” test.

On the one hand, it was possible that absent a settlement, some people now filing administrative claims might have sued. Judge Robertson was expected to allow new plaintiffs for several more months. Although only 10 women had sued, their lawyers had obtained affidavits alleging discrimination from 2,000 others. Attorneys for the 81 Hispanic farmers also raised the vague specter of tens of thousands of plaintiffs.

Even so, 10 years had passed since the litigation began. To some administration officials, the prospect of a huge last-minute rush seemed unlikely.

In agreeing to the payout, the government did, for the first time, impose a greater evidentiary burden. While one major category of claimants — those who said their loan applications had been unfairly denied — remained eligible for payments of up to $50,000 without any documentation, others were required to produce written evidence that they had complained of bias at the time. The Hispanic plaintiffs were indignant.

Adam P. Feinberg, who represents some of them, said: “Once the government puts a program in place for one racial group, even if it decides it is too generous, it cannot adopt a different set of restrictions for another racial group. It’s outrageous.”

The claims process opened in late September, six weeks before the election. In the weeks before the March 25 deadline, facing far fewer claimants than expected, the Agriculture Department instructed processors to call about 16,000 people to remind them that time was running out, despite internal disquiet that the government was almost recruiting claims against itself. The deadline was then extended to May 1.

So far, about 1,900 Hispanics and 24,000 women have sought compensation, many in states where middlemen have built a cottage industry, promising to help win payouts for a fee.

Last October, a court-appointed ombudsman wrote that hundreds, perhaps thousands, of people had given money to individuals and organizations in the belief that they were reserving the right to file a claim under the second settlement for black farmers, only to learn later that their names had never been forwarded to the authorities. People familiar with that statement said it was directed in part at Thomas Burrell, a charismatic orator and the head of the Black Farmers and Agriculturalists Association, based in .

Mr. Burrell has traveled the South for years, exhorting black audiences in auditoriums and church halls to file discrimination complaints with his organization’s help, in exchange for a $100 annual membership fee.

In an interview last month, Mr. Burrell said he had dedicated his life to helping black farmers after biased federal loan officers deprived him of his land and ruined his credit. He said his organization had misled no one, and had forwarded the names of all those eligible and willing to file claims.

“I have never advocated anybody file a false claim,” he said. “I have worked almost pro bono for this cause.”

On a recent Thursday at the Greater Second Baptist Church in Little Rock, several hundred African-Americans listened intently as Mr. Burrell told them they could reap $50,000 each, merely by claiming bias. He left out the fact that black men are no longer eligible, and that black women are eligible only if they suffered gender, not racial, bias.

“The Department of Agriculture admitted that it discriminated against every black person who walked into their offices,” he told the crowd. “They said we discriminated against them, but we didn’t keep a record. Hello? You don’t have to prove it.”

In fact, he boasted, he and his four siblings had all collected awards, and his sister had acquired another $50,000 on behalf of their dead father.

She cinched the claim, he said to a ripple of laughter, by asserting that her father had whispered on his deathbed, “I was discriminated against by U.S.D.A.”

“The judge has said since you all look alike, whichever one says he came into the office, that’s the one to pay — hint, hint,” he said. “There is no limit to the amount of money, and there is no limit to the amount of folks who can file.”

He closed with a rousing exhortation: “Let’s get the judge to go to work writing them checks! They have just opened the bank vault.”
674 2013-04-26 Re “Think Those Chemicals Have Been Tested?” (news analysis, Sunday Review, April 14) and “A Toothless Law on Toxic Chemicals” (editorial, April 19):

There has been misinformation and negative publicity about high-profile chemicals, resulting in public anxiety and calls to overhaul existing laws. We agree that it is past time to reform our chemical control law, but scare stories don’t serve the cause.

To liken the Toxic Substances Control Act to statutes that regulate pesticides, drugs and food additives would be misguided and economically foolish. If chemicals were treated as such, many everyday products would no longer be available.

Most chemicals can be and are used safely; however, any could cause harm if not used properly. This is why the Environmental Protection Agency does not typically ban chemicals outright; rather, it restricts use based on exposure.

The E.P.A. doesn’t require upfront data on new chemicals; the agency uses precautionary models to generate worst-case scenarios. It also looks at similar substances for comparison.

More chemicals are detected via biomonitoring — measuring chemicals in human tissues. Technology allows us to determine concentrations at parts per trillion. This detection does not equate to harm, as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention regularly notes.

The writer is vice president for government and public relations at the Society of Chemical Manufacturers and Affiliates.
675 2013-04-26 Further evidence of the spreading European recession came Thursday, first from Madrid, where the Spanish government reported that unemployment had reached a record level: 27.2 percent. Then new economic data from London indicated that Britain had barely avoided slipping back into recession for the third time since 2008.

“The reality is that Europe still faces severe vulnerabilities that — if unaddressed — could degenerate into a stagnation scenario,” David Lipton, first deputy managing director of the International Monetary Fund, said in London on Thursday.

If Germany slips into recession, much would slide down with it. Germany and the other 26 countries of the European Union together represent the world’s second-largest economy and as a bloc it is the single largest United States trading partner. The further delay in Europe’s recovery that a German recession would cause would seriously hamper growth in the United States, Asia and Latin America.

What growth remains in the region is coming mostly from countries in Eastern Europe. Poland is protected by its large domestic market and a healthy banking system. After a severe downturn that began in 2008, growth is rebounding in the Baltic nations of Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia. In that recession, wages fell, real estate prices dropped and banks worked through the painful process of improving their financial condition.

Unemployment there is by no means low, but those countries benefit by being the low-wage economies of Europe. They continue to attract investment of capital. It also helps that those economies, with the exception of Estonia, do not use the euro as their currency. They can adjust their currency more easily to changing economic conditions in the rest of the world, and their economic planners have more policy tools than simply adjusting interest rates.

In Germany, there is little overt sign of crisis. Unemployment is 5.4 percent compared with an average of 10.9 percent in Europe. Nevertheless, polls show businesses are growing pessimistic. “The German market cannot decouple from this environment,” Bodo K. Uebber, the Daimler chief financial officer, told analysts Wednesday.

The problem for the rest of Europe is that any hope for recovery is pinned on a robust German economy. Companies in Spain and Italy have depended on German demand to compensate for a collapse in consumer spending in their own countries.

“In my area there are some enterprises that work 100 percent to serve Germany,” said Mario Moretti Polegato, the founder and chief executive of Geox, a shoemaker based in Montebelluna, Italy, near Venice.

Geox, known for shoes with waterproof but breathable soles, sells its products around the world and is not dependent on any one market. Still, Italy accounted for 35 percent of the company’s total revenue last year, and those sales fell 15 percent as Italy remained stuck in a recession that began in mid-2011.

Geox sales in Germany helped to offset the decline, Mr. Polegato said by telephone. Germany is also a critical market for his family’s wine business, which sells bubbly prosecco under the Villa Sandi and La Gioiosa brands. “The first market is Germany,” Mr. Polegato said. That is true for most winemakers in the Veneto region, he said.

The worst case, said Mr. Weinberg, the economist, would be a depression caused by the failure of political leaders to fix the region’s many weak banks and restore the flow of credit.

The worsening economic situation has raised hopes that the European Central Bank will come to the rescue, as it has so often since 2010 when the debt crisis began in the euro zone, the 17 countries in the European Union that use the euro. Somewhat perversely, the dismal economic news this week prompted a rally in stocks and bonds, as investors bet that the unexpectedly bad business surveys would prod the central bank to lower interest rates.

Economists now expect the bank to cut its benchmark rate to a record low of 0.5 percent from 0.75 percent when it meets on Thursday in Bratislava, the capital of Slovakia, another of the few euro zone countries still growing.

Many business people would welcome a cut because it would tend to lower the value of the euro compared with the dollar and other major currencies, and make it easier for European exporters to sell their comparatively cheaper products abroad.

“It would be a sign that policy makers understand it is time to find a way to compete,” said Marco Tronchetti Provera, chief executive of the Italian tire maker Pirelli.

But it is unlikely that a rate cut would address a more fundamental problem in the euro zone: the lack of credit in countries that need it most.

Extraordinary measures by the central bank, including virtually unlimited loans to euro zone banks at the rock-bottom official interest rate, have not trickled down to help corporate borrowers in countries like Spain or Italy. The lack of credit is particularly vexing for the small and medium-size companies that are too small to raise money on the bond market and thus depend on banks.

Signs of a spreading recession are also strengthening the position of those people who argue that countries like Portugal, Spain and Greece should not be compelled to cut government spending so quickly. They say countries that have budget surpluses, like Germany, should increase spending to stimulate demand.

“The fiscal compact is going to kill Europe,” said Mr. Provera of Pirelli, referring to the agreement among euro zone members to reduce deficit spending.

Mr. Provera reflects the growing sentiment among leaders like José Manuel Barroso, president of the European Commission, that policy should be more oriented toward growth and not just budget cutting.

In an election year, though, German Chancellor Angela Merkel is not likely to forsake the fiscal prudence that has helped make her popular among debt-averse voters.

All the talk about austerity — meaning cuts in government spending — may miss the bigger point, though. Many of the most troubled countries have yet to make changes that economists say would spur growth. Reducing the size of a bloated Civil Service and eliminating rules that discourage companies from hiring and firing would not cost very much but many governments consider such moves politically perilous.

Germany went through the painful process of rewriting its labor regulations a decade ago, one reason that the economy was able to defy the crisis until recently.

In the meantime, Italian companies like Pirelli are trimming jobs in Europe and instead investing in Asia and other markets that seem to offer more promise.

Mr. Polegato, the Geox founder, expressed faith that Italian creativity and design would eventually prevail and that the country would recover.

But he sounded less certain about the prospects for better government. “A lot of Italian politicians have no feeling for the real economy or business,” he said.
676 2013-04-26 The family of Sunil Tripathi, a Brown University student who disappeared last month — and was briefly misidentified as a suspect in the Boston Marathon bombings — confirmed Thursday that his body had been found near Providence, R.I.

“On April 23, our beloved Sunil was discovered in the waters off India Point Park in Providence,” his family wrote in a statement.

Mr. Tripathi, 22, was taking a leave of absence from Brown when he left his apartment near campus on March 16, leaving his wallet, identification and bicycle at home. He did not return, setting off a round-the-clock search by his relatives, who temporarily moved to Providence and worked with the police and the Federal Bureau of Investigation to try to find him.

“He’s very quiet, he’s very private, he’s very intellectual,” Mr. Tripathi’s mother, Judy, said in an interview last week. “He admitted to some depression, but he said that he could figure it out, he could handle it.”

His disappearance mystified the authorities and his family, who said they had been in daily communication with him before he left.

Last Thursday, shortly after the F.B.I. released grainy surveillance photographs of the two men they believed were the Boston bombers, some Internet users began to speculate that Mr. Tripathi might be one of them. They began posting messages suggesting as much on the Facebook page the family used to raise awareness about their search for Mr. Tripathi. As the policed pursued the two suspects on a fiery chase through the Boston area, the rumor spread, leading news vans to stake out the Tripathis’s family home in Bryn Mawr, Pa., and reporters to make dozens of calls to the Tripathi family’s cellphones.
677 2013-04-26 Scenes from “An Oversimplification of Her Beauty,” with commentary by Terence Nance....
678 2013-04-26 In a world overstuffed with things, Conceptual Art came as a blessing in the 1960s and ‘70s, with its big ideas in small, often ephemeral packages: postcards, collages, written words, gestures. And the dematerializing impulse was an international phenomenon, as the visually airy sampler “Open Work in Latin America, New York & Beyond: Conceptualism Reconsidered, 1967-1978” makes clear.

The “New York & Beyond” category includes familiar American-born artists whose careers unfolded in the city (Mel Bochner, Joseph Kosuth, Sol LeWitt), with a couple of “beyond” figures in the Los Angeles-based Ed Ruscha, and the intriguing Donald Burgy of Massachusetts. What’s nice is that more than equal time is awarded to Latin Americans, like the Brazilian Hélio Oiticica, who visited New York, and others — Jaime Davidovich, Rafael Ferrer, Liliana Porter — who settled here.

Best of all, the curator, Harper Montgomery, professor of Modern and contemporary Latin American art at Hunter, has thrown the spotlight on artists whose careers were largely confined to Latin America and who are only beginning to get the global attention they deserve.

It’s great, for example, to have even a taste of the Uruguayan mail artist Clemente Padín, the veteran Brazilian installation maker Artur Barrio and the Brazilian collagist Anna Bella Geiger, and to be reminded that while Conceptualism in New York often served as an alternative to the era’s protest art, in Latin America it was political to the core, an effort to drive pinpoint-fine wedges into the ideological masonry of dictatorial power.

What else? It’s refreshing to find collaborative work, rare in egocentric New York these days, and poetry, preserved on a tape of intercontinental readings recorded by Eduardo Costa and John Perreault in 1969. And there’s a take-away bonus in the form of a stylish catalog with valuable essays by City University of New York graduate students: Liz Donato, Kevin Kelly, Dominika Ksel, Rebecca Major, Jeremiah W. McCarthy, Hallie Scott, Jieun Seo and Gillian Sneed.

Words are Conceptualism’s secret weapons. When, in 1972, the Argentine artist Horacio Zabala, who’s in the show, had himself photographed writing the phrase “This paper is a jail,” he was calling attention to art’s old confining thing-ness, and at the same time, opening it up, setting it free.
679 2013-04-26 Sheik Abdul Malik al-Saadi, a leading Sunni cleric who wields enormous influence over Iraq’s Sunni population, has urged members of Iraq’s security forces to abandon their posts and join the opposition to the Shiite-led government, saying they should do so just as “their brothers did in Syria.”

In linking the raging civil war in Syria to the growing unrest here in Iraq, the declaration is one of the surest signs yet that the sectarian battles under way in both countries are regarded by Sunnis as two elements of a budding regional sectarian conflict. The civil war in Syria pits a Sunni-led rebellion against a government dominated by Alawites, an offshoot of Shiite Islam.

Sheik Abdul released his statement Wednesday night from Amman, Jordan, where he lives. While he urged soldiers — he did not specify only Sunnis — to leave the military, he stopped short of endorsing an armed rebellion against the government by ordering deserting soldiers to leave their weapons behind.

He told government opponents to exercise restraint “as long as the armed forces are peaceful.”

“But if they open fire, then burn the land beneath them and defend yourself with courage and strength,” he said.

Already, a few Sunni members of Iraq’s army are deserting, said Najmaldin Karim, the governor of Kirkuk, the province where Hawija is. The desertions underscore the speed at which the situation here is beginning to resemble the early stages of the civil war in Syria, when government forces turned their weapons on peaceful Sunni-led protests, spurring desertions from soldiers unwilling to kill members of their own sect.

“The Sunnis certainly don’t want to fight,” said Governor Karim, adding that some members of army units based near Kirkuk had contacted local officials, saying they wanted to leave their posts. “They don’t want to kill their own people.”

One Sunni soldier, who agreed to speak on the condition that his name not be used, said he paid a bribe to avoid joining the assault on Hawija. “I paid money to my officer in the army not to send me,” he said. “I have a family and children, and I did not think that the issue is worth dying for.”

“It’s our duty to protect Iraq from external enemies, not to take up arms against the people,” he added.

The continuing battles on Thursday, which by late afternoon had left nearly 50 people dead, most of them described by security official as militants, came as Western diplomats intensified efforts to persuade Mr. Maliki and his government to back away from a military solution to the Sunni uprising. The urgings were met with justifications for the heavy hand, partly out of fears that the situation would otherwise deteriorate into another Syria, according to one Western diplomat and an official close to Mr. Maliki, both of whom spoke on the condition of anonymity.

Another diplomat, who also agreed to speak only on the condition of anonymity, said a fierce disagreement had erupted within the military command between Sunnis who opposed the military response and Shiite officers who directed it.
680 2013-04-26 “Given the stakes involved, and what we have learned from our own recent experience, intelligence assessments alone are not sufficient,” the White House said in the letter, which was signed by its legislative director, Miguel E. Rodriguez. “Only credible and corroborated facts that provide us with some degree of certainty will guide our decision-making.”

That meticulously legal language did not disguise a thorny political and foreign policy problem for Mr. Obama: he has long resisted the calls to arm the Syrian rebels and has expressed deep doubts about the wisdom of intervening in an Arab nation so riven with sectarian strife, although he has also issued pointed warnings to Syria.

In a statement last summer, Mr. Obama did not offer a technical definition of his “red line” for taking action, but said it was when “we start seeing a whole bunch of weapons moving around or being utilized.” In last month, he said proof that Syria had used such weapons would be a “game changer” for American involvement.

The Pentagon, administration officials said, has prepared the president a menu of options that include commando raids that would secure chemical weapons stockpiles and strikes on Syrian planes from American ships in the Mediterranean. Last year, the United States secretly sent a 150-member task force to to help deal with the possibility that Syria would lose control of its stockpiles. Mr. Obama could also provide more robust aid to the rebels, including weapons.

White House officials gave no indication of what Mr. Obama might do, except to say that any American action would be taken in concert with its allies.

While lawmakers from both parties swiftly declared that the president’s red line had been breached, they differed on what he should do about it.

“The political reality is that he put himself in that position that if the ‘red line’ is crossed — he made it very clear — it would change his behavior,” Senator , Republican of , said. The intelligence “is a compelling argument for the president to take the measures that a lot of us have been arguing for all along,” he said.

The timing of the White House disclosure also suggested the pressures it is facing. It came the same day that the British government said that it had “limited but persuasive” evidence of the use of chemical weapons, and two days after an Israeli military intelligence official asserted that Syria had repeatedly used chemical weapons.

In a letter to the secretary general, , several weeks ago calling for a United Nations investigation, Britain laid out evidence of the attacks in Aleppo and near Damascus as well as an earlier one in Homs.

The letter, a copy of which was obtained by , reported that dozens of victims were treated at hospitals for , and dilation of the pupils, common symptoms of exposure to chemical warfare agents. Doctors reported eye irritation and fatigue after close exposure to the patients.

Citing its links to contacts in the Syrian opposition, Britain said there were reports of 15 deaths in the suburban Damascus attack and up to 10 in Aleppo, where the government and rebels have each accused the other of using chemical weapons.

“Fortunately the deaths have not been high,” Senator Feinstein said, “but there have been deaths.”

The United States has also pushed for a United Nations investigation, but it made clear on Thursday that it has collected enough evidence on its own and with Britain and other countries to make its assessment. An official said the United States was also suspicious about the attack in Homs.

While several officials said the intelligence agencies expressed medium to high confidence about its overall assessment, two intelligence officials noted that there were components of the assessment about which the agencies were less certain. They did not offer details.

Administration officials had begun the week casting doubt on the claims made by the Israeli official, Brig. Gen. Itai Brun, about chemical weapons. “Suspicions are one thing; evidence is another,” Defense Secretary said Wednesday on a visit to .

But by then, a senior administration official said, the intelligence agencies had already become more confident of their assessment, after several weeks of examining the evidence. With Secretary of State scheduled to brief senators on Syria on Thursday, the White House decided on Wednesday evening to get ahead of that meeting.

The administration’s disclosure came in a response to Mr. McCain, a senior member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and the committee’s chairman, Senator of , who wrote to the White House asking whether Mr. Assad or his supporters had used chemical weapons during the two-year-long war.

“Given the fact that we have been developing additional information within our intelligence community,” a White House official said to reporters, “we felt it was the right and prudent thing to do to respond in an unclassified form to this letter.”

Lawmakers generally welcomed the White House’s disclosure, though some suggested that the administration was still inclined to play down the implications of the assessment.

“It is important that we read the intelligence as it is laid out, not as we would like it to be,” said Representative Mike Rogers, Republican of Michigan and the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee.
681 2013-04-26 BEIJING — Two Tibetans died on Wednesday after setting fire to themselves in a Tibetan region of western China to protest Chinese rule, according to reports on Thursday by Tibet advocacy groups and Radio Free Asia, which is financed by the American government. The two Tibetans, monks named Kunchok Woser and Lobsang Dawa, carried out their protest near their monastery in Dzoge County in Sichuan Province, according to Free Tibet, an advocacy group based in London. Radio Free Asia reported earlier that a third person, a 23-year-old woman, had set herself on fire in Dzamthang County of Sichuan, but then issued a new report saying that it could not confirm that episode. The news service said the two acts on Wednesday raised to 118 the number of Tibetans who have set themselves on fire since February 2009, when a young monk named Tapey did so in the town of Ngaba. Chinese security forces have flooded towns across the Tibetan plateau in an effort to stamp out the protests.

Correction: April 25, 2013 

 An earlier version of this article, based on information provided by Radio Free Asia.misidentified the number of Tibetans who had died on Wednesday after setting themselves on fire to protest Chinese policies in Tibet, It is two, not three, the news agency reported later.
682 2013-04-26 While noting that the cost of drugs for many other cancers were just as high, the doctors focused on what they know best — the medicines for chronic myeloid leukemia, like Gleevec, which is enormously profitable for . Among the critics is Dr. Brian Druker, who was the main academic developer of Gleevec and had to prod Novartis to bring it to market.

Novartis argues that few patients actually pay the full cost of the drug and that prices reflect the high cost of research and the value of a drug to patients.

Gleevec entered the market in 2001 at a price of about $30,000 a year in the United States, the doctors wrote. Since then, the price has tripled, it said, even as Gleevec has faced competition from five newer drugs. And those drugs are even more expensive.

The prices have been the subject of intense debate elsewhere as well. The in ruled recently that the drug could not be patented, clearing the way for use of far less expensive generic alternatives.

Some of the doctors who signed on to the commentary said they were inspired by physicians at the in New York, who last fall refused to use a new drug, Zaltrap, because it was twice as expensive as another drug without being better.

After those doctors publicized their objections in an Op-Ed article in , , which markets Zaltrap, effectively cut the price in half.

What impact the new commentary will have remains to be seen. The authors, however, call merely for a dialogue on pricing to begin.

The leader of the protest is Dr. Hagop M. Kantarjian, chairman of the leukemia department at the prestigious MD Anderson Cancer Center in .

Many of the roughly 120 doctors who were co-authors of the commentary — about 30 of whom are from the United States — work closely with pharmaceutical companies on research and clinical trials. They say they favor a healthy pharmaceutical industry, but think prices are much higher than they need to be to ensure that.

“If you are making $3 billion a year on Gleevec, could you get by with $2 billion?” Dr. Druker, who is now director of the Knight Institute at Health and Science University, said in an interview. “When do you cross the line from essential profits to profiteering?”

Gleevec’s sales were $4.7 billion in 2012, making it Novartis’s best-selling drug. A newer Novartis leukemia drug, Tasigna, had sales of $1 billion.

Novartis said in a statement released Thursday: “We recognize that sustainability of health care systems is a complex topic and we welcome the opportunity to be part of the dialogue.”

It said that its investment in Gleevec continued after the initial approval, expanding the drug’s use to other diseases. It also said that it provided Gleevec or Tasigna free to 5,000 uninsured or underinsured Americans each year and to date had provided free drugs to more than 50,000 people in low-income countries.

Novartis and the manufacturers of the other drugs for chronic myeloid leukemia say the prices reflect the value of the drug. While many cancer drugs with equally high prices extend life by only a few months on average, it is widely agreed that Gleevec and rivals are near-miracle medicines that essentially turn a death sentence into a chronic disease like .

“It is a little surprising that their focus is in a cancer where the small-molecule medicines have had the greatest impact on long-term benefit,” said Dr. Harvey J. Berger, chief executive of Ariad Pharmaceuticals, which sells the newest and most expensive of the leukemia drugs, Iclusig.

Dr. Berger said the price of Iclusig was $115,000 a year, not the $138,000 a year cited in the commentary. said the price of its drug, Bosulif, also was overstated in the piece. The manufacturers cite the price at which they sell to wholesalers, while the authors of the commentary were referring to a price they say better reflects what is charged by a pharmacy to patients.

The other drugs for chronic myeloid leukemia are Sprycel from and Synribo from Teva.

The commentary noted that despite drug company programs, a minority of the estimated 1.2 million to 1.5 million people in the world with chronic myeloid leukemia were receiving one of the drugs. In many developing nations, it said, cancer experts were advocating risky bone marrow transplants because that is a one-time procedure that is cheaper than continuous treatment with one of the drugs.

The article also said the survival rate for patients in the United States appeared to be less than it should be, perhaps because costs are forcing patients to not take their medicine. Prices for the drugs are twice as high in the United States as in many other countries, which often apply some government pressure or price controls to keep drug costs down.

Even if out-of-pocket costs can be low, health systems in general still must pay for the drugs, the commentary says. And some patients say assistance programs are not always easy to use.

Raven Riedesel of Winlock, Wash., said she had been turned down by various charities — though she hadn’t yet tried Novartis itself — because her husband, a pipe fitter, makes too much money. Yet the from his union would require her to pay $1,200 to $1,600 a month as a co-payment for Tasigna.

“It would take everything that we had left over after buying necessities and paying our bills,” said Ms. Riedesel, 28, a mother of two young children. She is now in a clinical trial allowing her to obtain Tasigna free; the trial will end in November.

Patients in the United States circulated an online petition last year protesting the price of Gleevec, but the effort was dropped after receiving about 400 signatures.

Cheap generic versions could enter the American market as early as 2015 when the main patent on Gleevec expires. Novartis might try to assert other patents to stave off competition, however. It is also trying to shift patients to Tasigna, which has a longer patent life.

Dr. John M. Goldman, emeritus professor of hematology at Imperial College in and a co-author of the commentary, said he knew several researchers who declined to become authors because they feared losing research money from the industry.

Dr. Kantarjian, the lead author, said that was a risk.

“I am sure I am going to be blackballed,” he said. “My research career will be hurt.”

But he said it was time to speak out. “Pharmaceutical companies have lost their moral sense,” he said. Prices, he added, “are getting to the point where it is becoming unsustainable.”
683 2013-04-26 One American intelligence agency recently said it had “moderate confidence” that the North had mastered the technology of building a weapon that could fit on a missile warhead, but the Obama administration said that was not the consensus among the United States’ 15 other intelligence agencies. Most analysts believe that Kim Jong-un, the North’s leader, is using the nuclear bluster to consolidate the support of his people and bolster his leverage in dealing with Washington and its allies.

The threatening statements come after days of relative quiet that followed weeks of warnings of dire consequences if the United States and South Korea provoked the North. Mr. Kim’s government was already angered by United Nations sanctions punishing it for the nuclear test in February and by particularly robust joint exercises by the American and South Korea militaries.

The timing of the latest threats appeared to be tied to the military anniversary. North Korea’s military, the backbone of Mr. Kim’s dynastic rule, has traditionally used the date to swear its loyalty to the Kim family and vent its anti-American vitriol.

During the military ceremony on Thursday, Mr. Kim saluted columns of soldiers marching past, and airplanes made demonstration flights, the North Korean news agency said.

Earlier Thursday, South Korea said it was giving the North until Friday to respond to its proposal for dialogue about the two countries’ joint industrial park or face a “grave measure” by the South. The statement by the Unification Ministry stopped short of saying whether South Korea was contemplating withdrawing 176 South Korean managers still remaining in the factory park in North Korea or even terminating the joint economic project, which has survived years of political tensions on the divided Korean Peninsula.

The future of the project, the Kaesong Industrial Complex, located in the North Korean border town of the same name, has been in doubt ever since North Korea pulled out its 53,000 workers in early April. It also blocked supplies and South Korean managers who were south of the border from entering the economic zone.

The number of South Korean managers at Kaesong dwindled from the usual 900 to 176 as of Wednesday as supplies were running out. On Thursday, the South Korean government said that those who were still in Kaesong, hoping for the reopening of the complex, would not be able to remain much longer.

A spokesman for the government said that when it had tried Wednesday to send a letter to the North asking permission to send emergency food and medical supplies to the South Koreans in Kaesong, the North had not even accepted the document.
684 2013-04-27 Mary Thom, 68, a renowned intellectual in the women’s movement who worked at Ms. magazine, was killed on Friday in Yonkers....
685 2013-04-27 If you’re born Caucasian, male and middle class in the United States, your job is to check the manifestations of the entitlement bred into you by your native culture....
686 2013-04-27 For the second time in a week, the head of the Church of England has aired critical views about the British economy and the banking crisis. Some suggest that, as a former businessman, the Right Rev. Justin Welby might be worth listening to....
687 2013-04-27 “He’s a guy who usually has a smile on his face, someone who was smart enough to graduate from our university early,” said Will Hicks, the Syracuse strength and conditioning coach. “But in practice or games, he flips a switch. He’s not one of those coolly efficient offensive linemen. He’s fierce. And at the end of a play, you better have your head on a swivel because he’s always looking to put somebody on the ground.”

Pugh’s high school coach, Vince Bedesem, noticed the same thing even when Pugh was a sophomore guard and barely 200 pounds.

“Everybody gets up for games,” Bedesem said. “But I saw Justin in practices as a young kid going against older all-conference players, and he was trying to dominate. He wasn’t waiting for the games to ratchet it up. He was going after our own people. You don’t see too many high school sophomores just named to the varsity with that kind of drive.”

His mother said Justin always had a presence and was the child everyone noticed in a room.

“Even as a little boy, everybody knew his name,” Carolyn said. “Probably because I was always yelling it and chasing after him.”

Carolyn and David Pugh divorced when Justin was 5 years old.

“Those next three years were difficult because Justin needed a male figure in the house, even if it was someone to roughhouse with,” Carolyn said. “He had friends; he was a good student; and he played sports. But there was something missing.”

In 2000, Carolyn married Frank Gavaghan, who was a single parent of two sons who were 8 and 11 years older than Justin.

“He had to grow up a little tougher then,” said Frank Gavaghan, a field construction superintendent whose company built MetLife Stadium in the Meadowlands. “His older brothers were like all older brothers — they weren’t taking it easy on him. And I’m essentially a blue-collar guy. We lived by the motto that hard work will make you rise to the top of whatever you’re doing.”

The two families blended, in Frank Gavaghan’s words, “very naturally.”

When Pugh was in seventh grade, he spent six weeks with his father, who had relocated to North Carolina.

“He was very angry at his dad for many years,” Carolyn, who is a sixth-grade teacher, said. “But it was a good visit, and he re-connected with him.”

About three months later, David Pugh was dead at 45.

“Frank had already stepped into that role,” Carolyn said. “But it was so good that he was there for Justin at that time of his life.”

At about the same point, Justin began to mature physically, and the child who wanted to be a pro hockey player more or less started to outgrow the sport. By his sophomore year at Council Rock South High School in Holland, Pa., he was making his mark in football, even though he was still more lanky than beefy.

“But then he just kept getting bigger and stronger,” said Bedesem, who was stunned when Pugh weighed 270 pounds as a senior.

Villanova had been on Pugh’s radar. But when Syracuse offered him a full scholarship, he accepted. And when he got to Syracuse, he was told to lose weight.

“You refine his body, take some of it off to build it back up another way,” Hicks said. “He took off after that, and there was no stopping him.”

Scott Shafer, the current Syracuse head coach and the team’s defensive coordinator since 2005, compared Pugh to the Giants’ current right tackle, David Diehl, whom Pugh will probably be competing against for a starting job.

“I was at Illinois when Diehl was there,” Shafer said. “They are similar — smart, tough guys that fit what Tom Coughlin wants from a football player.”

Pugh remains friends with eight of his best friends from elementary school, and they have matching tattoos. They form the core of the Pugh Crew, a collection of Justin’s friends and family organized by Justin’s sister, Jenna. The Pugh Crew has traveled the country wearing identical T-shirts wherever Justin played with Syracuse.

When Syracuse played at Temple in Philadelphia, the Pugh Crew was nearly 250 strong.

“He was always a great kid,” Carolyn Gavaghan said. “And his family and friends have never left him.”

A day after selecting the 305-pound offensive lineman Justin Pugh in the first round, the Giants used their second pick to take 320-pound Ohio State defensive tackle Johnathan Hankins. This is traditional Giants football: build from the line of scrimmage out. The Giants’ director of college scouting, Marc Ross, said: “You always want big guys. You win with size in this league. It starts up front on both sides of the ball. We wanted to get bigger and more physical, and we think we’ve been able to do that with these first two picks. We’ll see how the rest of the draft goes.” ... With their third-round pick, the Giants drafted Damontre Moore, a defensive end from TexasA&M. Moore was once considered a first-round prospect, but his stock fell after some poor workouts at the N.F.L. combine and questions about his work ethic, especially in the weight room. Moore, who is 6-5 and 250 pounds, was arrested for marijuana possession in the summer of 2011. Of the work-habits issue, Coach Tom Coughlin acknowledged that the Giants would have to alter Moore’s approach to weekday practices. “We’ll have to address that,” he said.
688 2013-04-27 A rare century-old nickel that was once mistakenly declared a fake has sold at auction for more than $3.1 million. The 1913 Liberty Head nickel is one of only five known to exist. It was surreptitiously and illegally cast, discovered in a car wreck that killed its owner, declared a fake, forgotten in a closet for decades and then declared authentic. It was offered for sale by four Virginia siblings at an auction in the Chicago suburb of Schaumburg on Thursday, and it sold for well over the expected $2.5 million. The winning bidders were two men from Lexington, Ky., and Panama City, Fla., who bought the coin in partnership.
689 2013-04-27 “The concept of gay unions fits very well within our framework of individual liberty and our belief that strong families make for a stronger society,” Mr. Singer said in an e-mail. “The institution of marriage is in very bad shape in this country, yet gay and lesbian couples want very much to be a part of it, to live as committed husbands and wives with their children in traditional family units. This should be what we want as conservatives, for people to cherish and respect this model and to want it for themselves.”

The fund is one of several advocacy organizations backed by wealthy Republicans and business leaders to shift their party’s stance in recent months on issues like immigration and same-sex marriage. And the new effort traces a rift between Republican elites and grass-roots voters over a handful of hot-button social issues that one group views as handcuffing the party and the other sees as essential to its identity.

“We were fighting for years on the life issue, with the same group of people,” said Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council, referring to abortion rights. Mr. Perkins attended the Republican National Convention last year as a delegate and wrote the party’s marriage plank, which states that “the union of one man and one woman must be upheld as the national standard.”

Mr. Perkins added: “They have money, but they’re small in number. It’s still a tension between those who care about social issues and those who would rather not deal with them.”

Those involved with the American Unity Fund said its initial efforts would be focused on more socially liberal states, like Illinois and Delaware, where a handful of Republican votes could enable advocates to win passage of same-sex marriage legislation in the coming months. The group has already set up shop in Minnesota, where the Legislature may vote as early as next week on a same-sex marriage bill that advocates do not yet have enough votes to pass.

But the group is also beginning a long-term push in more conservative states like West Virginia and Utah, seeking to build conservative support for nondiscrimination laws that could help pave the way for same-sex marriage in coming years. A critical part of the effort, fund strategists said, is building lists of Republican supporters of same-sex marriage around the country that could be used to pressure lawmakers in Washington and elsewhere.

That could prove critical at the state level, where Republicans now control majorities or supermajorities in more than half the state capitols.

“We want to change the complexion of which people are calling their lawmakers from these legislative districts,” said Jeff Cook-McCormac, a senior adviser to the American Unity Fund. “It’s usually gay people calling and saying, ‘We want this.’ What we want is for legislators to hear from their straight friends and neighbors, people who will say, ‘I’m a Republican, and I want this for my neighbors and my friends.’ ”

In Rhode Island, the unity fund helped Republican senators create their message in a way that would help them navigate opposition from more conservative constituents.

“They were a resource of experienced political professionals operating on the Republican side of the aisle,” said State Senator Dawson Hodgson, a Republican who co-sponsored the marriage bill. “It was important to be able to draw on some national level experience in making sure that our Republican perspective in supporting same-sex marriage was at the forefront of our dialogue with constituents.”

Mr. Singer, the fund’s founder, helped bankroll the successful same-sex marriage push in New York two years ago, persuading Republicans in Albany that some of the party’s top donors would be there to help defend them against primary challenges and attacks from same-sex marriage opponents. Despite such successes — including passage of measures in four states last fall either legalizing same-sex marriage or overturning existing bans — same sex-unions remain illegal in most of the country.

As a tax-exempt social welfare group, the American Unity Fund is not required to disclose its donors or finances. The group is affiliated with a “super PAC,” the American Unity PAC, that spent $2.2 million during the 2012 election, defending a handful of Republican candidates deemed sympathetic to gay rights. Much of the super PAC’s money came from firms owned by Mr. Singer and Mr. Klarman.

Support for same-sex marriage remains relatively rare among Republican elected officials, despite some high-profile changes of heart. Just two Republicans in the United States Senate — Rob Portman of Ohio and Mark Steven Kirk of Illinois — say they support it. A November 2012 Gallup poll found that fewer than a third of self-identified Republicans support laws that permit same-sex unions. And some Republican officials have faced backlash when they do support same-sex marriage: Three of the four Republican state senators in New York who voted for a same-sex marriage bill there in 2011 did not return to Albany this year.

Tension over the issue broke into the open at the Republican National Committee meeting in Los Angeles this month, after a task force charged with assessing the party’s failures in the 2012 election recommended that officials rethink their language and approach to young voters, particularly on same-sex marriage.

A coalition of religious and social conservatives leaders sent a letter to Reince Priebus, the Republican chairman, accusing the party of seeking to marginalize social conservatives who were urging conservative donors to withhold contributions. Party officials ultimately passed a resolution affirming the Republican commitment to heterosexual marriage.

Mr. Perkins was among those who called Mr. Priebus during the debate.

“What I expressed to him is that these are folks who will vote for Republicans when the Republicans express their values, but if they depart from those issues, they lose the support,” Mr. Perkins said. “You want to see where the money will get you? Look to 2012. That was the money part of the party having their candidate and access to the resources. And it wasn’t enough.”
690 2013-04-27 Chevron reported on Friday that its net income fell 4.5 percent in the first quarter, pushed lower by falling oil prices and a decline in refinery output. Chevron, the second-largest United States oil company after Exxon Mobil, has delivered better profit margins than the other energy majors in recent years because a big part of its production mix is oil, which has been costly. But crude oil prices fell across the globe in the first three months of this year as Europe remained stuck in recession and growth in China slowed. That reduced Chevron’s revenue and profit. Chevron, based in San Ramon, Calif., said on Friday that its net income fell to $6.2 billion, or $3.18 a share, on revenue of $56.8 billion. Last year in the same quarter the company earned $6.47 billion, or $3.27 a share, on revenue of $60.7 billion.
691 2013-04-27 Pictures From the Week in Business
692 2013-04-27 But they volunteered to put it all on the table for their personal fiscal health day, the brainchild of my colleague Ron Lieber, which involves setting aside a full day to fine-tune finances and make headway on the money-related tasks that never seem to get done. I asked readers on the Bucks blog to submit their pleas, with the promise that I would meet with the candidate with the most compelling story.

Nearly 100 readers responded, many of them needing something more like an overhaul than a financial tuneup. There were tales of paralyzing student loan and credit card debts and crushing medical bills, as well as pleas from single people and young families hoping to do better than live paycheck to paycheck. Some lost their jobs in the recession, and had gotten new, lower-paying work and were trying to figure out how to live on less.

I chose the Bartones in part because their financial issues are all too common. Ms. Bartone, who has curly brown hair and a contagious smile, wanted to make sure she and her husband were on the same financial page and to set priorities on their financial to-do list. She also felt it would help to have a neutral third party to walk them through the process given that they are financial opposites. She calls herself neurotic and keeps spreadsheets. He puts his cash tips in a kitchen drawer.

Here is what we managed to get done in one afternoon:

MONEY TALK  The biggest accomplishment, by far, was having the newlyweds sit down at their dining room table to actually talk about their financial life, their differing outlooks and how their views were influenced by their upbringings. This was a huge step. My suggestion, unromantic as it may sound, was to make the money talk a weekly ritual, at least until they learned more about their income and spending patterns and made progress on paying down their debts.

CREDIT CARD DEBT The couple have lived together for several years, yet each still did not know exactly how much debt the other had. So Ms. Bartone created two lists of each of their credit cards, along with the outstanding balances and interest rates. She has already started to pay down the cards with the highest rates first, and she said she would help her husband set up his own plan of attack. But she had a good question: since the interest rates on Mr. Bartone’s cards were more than twice as high as hers, should she focus on paying down his debt first?

I told her she could not enable his behavior, particularly if he did not start to control his spending. But I also contacted an expert after I left — Kristin Harad, of VitaVie Financial Planning, who had seen this situation many times before.

“Creating healthy habits as a unit is paramount,” she said, since they are building a future together. So yes, they should focus on paying down Mr. Bartone’s debt first. But that also means Mr. Bartone needs to remove the plastic from his wallet (and frankly, the financial planner said, so does Ms. Bartone). They should use only cash and debit cards and stow the rest of the cards away. (We will talk about how they managed to accumulate their debt below.)

CREDIT SCORES The couple said they did not know each other’s credit scores, though the topic had come up from time to time. “She’s always asking me mine,” Mr. Bartone said.

We decided it was a good idea to check their scores, even though it would cost them $40. After I left, the couple purchased their scores through MyFico.com, which costs $19.95 a score. Though several factors determine your FICO score, outstanding credit card debt can pull it down. Even with their debts, however, their scores weren’t too bad: Mr. Bartone’s was 697 and Ms. Bartone’s was a respectable 732 (on a scale of 300 to 850). Ms. Bartone already pulls a free credit report from each of the three major credit agencies each year at annualcreditreport.com to be sure there are no mistakes, since she has found errors in the past. She promised to help Mr. Bartone do the same.

TRACKING SPENDING Their two-bedroom apartment on the first floor of a brick home is furnished practically, with bare hardwood floors and oversize beige sofas. Pictures of their “children” — three cats named Bouncer, Chloe and Stormy — hang on one wall, with engagement photos on another. There is not much obvious physical evidence of overspending, with the exception of the 55-inch 3-D television, which replaced a 37-inch screen that was in perfect working order.

“That was a couple of years’ battle,” Mr. Bartone said.

“He took tax refund money to buy the TV,” she added, hinting that she had just given in after the television dropped to a price she found acceptable. (They received a tax refund of about $5,000: $1,500 went to pay bills and the new television, while the remaining $3,500 went into savings.)

Like many people in credit card debt, Mr. Bartone does not know exactly how he got there, so we tried to do some quick forensic accounting. He said he surprised his wife with a photo booth and a magician at their wedding, and they extended their honeymoon in Playa Mujeres, Mexico, all of which probably added about $5,000 to his overall bill. Another $860 remained on a J. C. Penney card. And last year, Ms. Bartone said, he bought boxing equipment and a tension weight-lifting machine to outfit the gym he had created in their garage. Then there were weeks when the bar was slow, so he pulled out the card to pay for household expenses.

As for Ms. Bartone, she said her income as a legal recruiter, which is largely paid on a commission basis, fell precipitously in 2008 and 2009, mostly because she had many financial services clients and none were hiring. So she raided most of her 401(k) savings, or about $35,000, as well as another savings account. Still, she accumulated credit card debt. (She has already paid down about two-thirds of her student debt. She has about $8,000 remaining.)

I suggested the couple begin using a service like Mint.com, which allows users to connect all their financial accounts, and compiles and categorizes all of the transactions in one place. The big drawback is that they will have to use their debit cards for payments to be automatically transcribed; cash transactions must be entered manually, though that can be done through an app on their phones. Ms. Bartone immediately signed them up.

TRACKING INCOME They both have variable incomes. Mr. Bartone has good days and bad ones behind the bar. Ms. Bartone works largely on commission, though her firm pays her a “draw,” which is a small steady paycheck that is more of a loan that is deducted from her commissions. So budgeting is hard, but a big part of their problem is that they do not really know how much they collectively have to work with.

Mint.com allows users to add cash income, and it will track any deposits either of them makes. But if adding Mr. Bartone’s cash income manually was too much of a hurdle, I suggested he write it all down on an index card he could keep in his cash drawer. When he does make those deposits, Ms. Bartone, a natural bookkeeper, will be able to keep better tabs on how much he is bringing in through the online money program.

JOINT ACCOUNTS The couple has individual accounts at three brick-and-mortar banks. Keeping an account at one of them was important because Mr. Bartone needed a place to physically deposit his tips without too much trouble. So I suggested staying with the bank with the lowest fees (or finding a new one entirely), and then opening another joint account at an online bank with a higher interest rate, or a bank like Ally or Capital One (formerly ING Direct) that allows customers to label different savings subaccounts. That way, they can also start building an emergency account, even before accelerating repayment of their debts. That will help them build a cushion should their income drop or an unanticipated expense occur. Their goal should be to accumulate at least three months of expenses, Ms. Harad, the financial planner, said, and work their way up to six months.

Ms. Bartone’s eyes lit up at the prospect of being so organized.

RETIREMENT Ms. Bartone has a 401(k) and an Individual Retirement Account at Vanguard, which I was happy to hear. Her company does not offer a match and she is not saving much now, since they want to tackle the high interest-rate debt first. But since we are trying to accomplish a lot in one afternoon, I suggested they also open an I.R.A. at Vanguard for Mr. Bartone, even if they do not put money in it right away. That way, when he is able to pay off more debt, the I.R.A. will be waiting for his deposits (which should be automated).

We could have used another day to get even more done. But that the couple broke the ice now, during the honeymoon period, was probably the most important accomplishment of all.

“The lesson we learned,” Ms. Bartone said, “was that we both have to be open.”
693 2013-04-27 As much as Brodeur’s absence hurt, forward Ilya Kovalchuk’s injured right shoulder hurt more. A team that lacked scoring punch following the off-season departure of the free agent Zach Parise became desperate for offense during a franchise record-tying 10-game losing streak from March 25 until April 18.

Ken Daneyko, a former Devils defenseman and current MSG analyst, pointed to those injuries in explaining why the Devils will be postseason spectators for the second time in three years.

“Management, coaches and players never use it as an excuse, but it’s fact,” he said. “It is no coincidence that when Marty went down, they went into a bad streak, and when Ilya went down, they couldn’t win.”

Kovalchuk was adamant that injuries should not be used to explain the team’s precipitous fall.

“It’s a contact sport,” he said. “Everyone gets injured once in a while. You’ve got to go through that. Every single team has been in that situation, and who responded better is in the playoffs.”

At the same time, it hardly seemed coincidental that the offense roared back from an early 2-0 deficit to rout the visiting Florida Panthers, 6-2, when Kovalchuk rejoined the lineup last Saturday, even though Kovalchuk did not have a point.

“He created a half-dozen chances for himself or other people,” Coach Peter DeBoer said. “That’s what he does for us.”

It was only the fourth time in 26 games the Devils won after the opponent scored first.

“He’s one of the best players in the world,” center Stephen Gionta said of Kovalchuk. “Any time you have him on the ice, it’s a huge boost to your team, and he’s one of the leaders in the locker room.”

The 10-game slide without Kovalchuk ended in consecutive 2-0 losses — on April 12 to the Ottawa Senators and April 15 at the Toronto Maple Leafs — that still have members of the organization shaking their heads. The Devils outshot the competition by a combined 65-23 in those games, leading DeBoer to describe the disconnect between chances and results as absurd.

As often as the Devils lacked a counterpunch, they were unable to close key games. In the early going without Kovalchuk, they absorbed a 5-4 shootout defeat at the Tampa Bay Lightning on March 29 and followed that with a 3-2 overtime loss at Florida the next day. Each time, the opposition scored in the final 30 seconds of regulation after pulling its goalie for an extra skater.

“This has been a unique season, not only in the shortness of the schedule but in the experiences we had,” General Manager Lou Lamoriello said.

Although Parise’s departure took a toll, Lamoriello remains confident in the roster.

“We would have liked our chances going into the playoffs with a healthy team,” he said.

He indicated that sweeping changes were not in the offing.

“It is absolutely not an overhaul, but you always try to get better,” he said. “Without question, there have to be a couple of additions.”

Brodeur, who turns 41 next month, is expected to end his career when he finishes a two-year contract next season. If the Devils are to push for a fourth Stanley Cup in the Brodeur era, they must avoid key subtractions. Patrik Elias and David Clarkson can both become free agents. Clarkson leads the team with 15 goals, and Elias has 14.

“I’ve always said you have a four-year plan that changes every day,” Lamoriello said.
694 2013-04-27 As Mr. Obama and his aides walked a fine line on how to confront the evidence about chemical weapons, they engaged in an intensified round of diplomacy with Arab leaders to bolster support for the Syrian opposition and to try to develop a consensus on how to deal with the escalating strife.

In addition to King Abdullah, Mr. Obama met in recent days with leaders from Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, as well as the Saudi foreign minister. Next month, he will meet Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey, which borders Syria and is among the countries most exposed to the threat of a chemical weapons attack.

“If their policy is premised on not going it alone, even in response to chemical weapons,” said Brian Katulis, a Middle East expert at the Center for American Progress, “you’re going to need a lot of people reading from the same song sheet.”

The more pressing problem, Mr. Katulis said, was that the president’s strong warnings to Syria “are running ahead of their policy.” In his remarks, King Abdullah did not address the American suspicions about chemical weapons or Mr. Obama’s warnings, but expressed confidence that the president, working with Jordan, Saudi Arabia and other countries, could “find a mechanism to find a solution.”

A major focus of the meeting, a senior administration official said, was coordinating more robust aid for the Syrian opposition. The United States pledged last weekend to double its nonlethal assistance, and the official said it was working with regional allies to direct it to reliable opposition groups.

On Friday, Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain echoed Mr. Obama’s cautious assessment of the use of chemical weapons, saying that there was limited but growing evidence that such weapons had been used, probably by government forces.

The British government, like the Obama administration, is concerned about avoiding a repetition of the events that led to the 2003 invasion of Iraq when the presence of unconventional weapons, cited as justification for military action, had not been corroborated.

Mr. Cameron said that while definitive information was limited, “there’s growing evidence that we have seen, too, of the use of chemical weapons, probably by the regime.”

“It is extremely serious; this is a war crime, and we should take it very seriously,” he added.

Still, Mr. Cameron said, the British authorities were trying to avoid “rushing into print” news about the use of chemical weapons. And he repeated that Britain had no appetite to intervene militarily.

“I don’t want to see that, and I don’t think that is likely to happen,” he said. “But I think we can step up the pressure on the regime, work with our partners, work with the opposition in order to bring about the right outcome. But we need to go on gathering this evidence and also to send a very clear warning to the Syrian regime about these appalling actions.”

The United States has called on the United Nations to carry out a thorough investigation of the suspected use of chemical weapons by the government. But the government of President Bashar al-Assad has so far not allowed United Nations inspectors into the country, and backed by its supporter Russia, it is insisting on limits to the scope of the investigation.

“As long as Damascus refuses to let the U.N. investigate all allegations, and as long as Russia provides the regime with political cover at the Security Council, it may be impossible for Washington to meet that standard,” Michael Eisenstadt, director of the military and security studies program at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said in a report.

The risk of not responding now, even with less than definitive proof, Mr. Eisenstadt said, is that it could embolden Mr. Assad to use chemical weapons on a wider scale. American officials said the administration had privately warned the Syrian government not to take that step.

On Thursday, the head of the United Nations agency for disarmament sent another letter to Syria demanding “unconditional and unfettered access” for inspectors investigating the use of chemical weapons, said Martin Nesirky, the spokesman for the secretary general.

The top inspector for the team of some 15 members, the Swedish scientist Ake Sellstrom, is due in New York on Monday to brief Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations secretary general, on its work.

“Members of that team have been collating and analyzing the evidence and information that is available to date from outside,” Mr. Nesirky said, adding that there was a concern about the evidence degrading.
695 2013-04-27 LOS ANGELES — After being pulled from theaters this month over what Chinese officials described as a “technical” problem, Quentin Tarantino’s “Django Unchained” will return to movie screens in China on May 12.

Sony Pictures Entertainment, which is distributing the film, announced the release plan in a brief statement Friday morning. “We thank the local authorities for quickly resolving this issue,” Sony said.

A studio spokesman declined to say what the problem had been, or whether the film had been edited to meet objections from China’s censors. But one person who had earlier been briefed on the situation, and spoke on condition of anonymity because of confidentiality strictures, had said the movie would undergo some editing before returning to screens.
696 2013-04-27 Mr. Hastings said he realized that the company’s attempt to both raise prices and separate into two companies, one the legacy DVD-by-mail business and the other the up-and-coming broadband streaming business, was trying to do too much too fast. Angry subscribers abandoned the company in droves (800,000 in the fourth quarter of 2011 alone), revenue missed estimates and the stock plunged.

“I messed up,” Mr. Hastings wrote in an unusually forthright September 2011 blog post. Citing the precedents of AOL and Borders Books, which struggled or failed to make the digital transition, “my greatest fear at Netflix has been that we wouldn’t make the leap from success in DVDs to success in streaming.” But in the rush to accelerate the transition, he wrote, “In hindsight, I slid into arrogance based upon past success.” He also made a video apology.

Mr. Hastings said he didn’t expect the apology alone to “turn it around,” adding, “I wasn’t naïve enough to think most customers care if the C.E.O. apologizes, but I thought it was honest and appropriate.”

The mea culpa resonated, though, with some important constituencies, including some Wall Street analysts, who were punishing the company’s stock. Richard Greenfield, an influential media analyst at BTIG, said that he was impressed that Mr. Hastings “realized his mistakes and openly admitted them.”

“He dusted himself off, stood back up and started running,” Mr. Greenfield said. “Very few people can do that.”

Still, Mr. Hastings said, “The situation made me nervous and very focused.

“I couldn’t say with confidence that we’d recover. We were in a place that was quite risky. We didn’t have the reserves to make a second stumble.”

On the other hand, he didn’t panic, and he didn’t lose confidence. Although he made some big changes, like scrapping Qwikster, he never questioned his original vision for the company, which he helped found in 1997. Nor did he lunge at supposedly transformative opportunities that were pressed upon him — a lesson he learned from a four-year war with Blockbuster that began in 2004, when Blockbuster, then the dominant and much larger DVD distributor, tried and failed to crush its upstart competitor.

“There were elements of panic in my reaction back then,” Mr. Hastings said. “We got desperate and we did some dumb things.” (He cited online advertising on the Web site; starting Red Envelope, an independent film producer and distributor, since shut down; and buying DVDs out of the Sundance Film Festival.) “After we eventually won the Blockbuster battle, I looked back and realized all those things distracted us. They didn’t help, and they marginally hurt. The reason we won is because we improved our everyday service of shipping and delivering. That experience grounded us. Executing better on the core mission is the way to win.”

Plenty of people were urging him to take drastic steps to show the company was regaining momentum, like buying sports programming, offering a pay-per-view service or buying a hardware maker like Roku, which makes streaming players for televisions. “There was amazing pressure to come up with the shiny object that would make everything better,” he said. “But the phrase I used was, ‘There are no shortcuts.’ We weren’t going to find an idea or gesture that would make people love us again overnight. We had to earn their trust by being very steady and disciplined. And we had to be careful because we were on probation. We had to stick to what we do well and not lose confidence. I couldn’t say for sure we’d recover. But I was confident that our best odds were to be very steady and focus on improving the service.”

Mr. Hastings, now 52 years old, stayed out of the public eye, the better to focus on day-to-day management. By the end of the first quarter of 2012, the subscriber exodus had subsided and began to show slow but steady improvement. Still, Wall Street was unimpressed as international expansion and content costs soared. In September, a year after Mr. Hastings’s apology, Netflix shares dropped to $53.80. Mr. Hastings said he found the stock plunge “a little unnerving, but we don’t manage for the stock price.” He went on: “Wall Street people may be friendly, but then they’ll turn around and short you. It’s not personal. They’re trying to make money. And if I was in their shoes, I might have felt the same way. Once the wheels come off a company, it’s hard to recover.”

Then, in January, the company announced it had added two million streaming subscribers during the fourth quarter of 2012, beating estimates, as consumers embraced tablet computers and Internet televisions during the holiday season. The activist investor Carl Icahn disclosed he’d acquired a 10 percent stake in the company, calling the shares undervalued. The stock began to climb.

“House of Cards,” Netflix’s venture into original programming, starring Kevin Spacey and directed by David Fincher, made its debut to critical acclaim in February and attracted millions of new subscribers. “Netflix is following along the path of the cable networks,” BTIG’s Mr. Greenfield said. “HBO did it; AMC did it; FX did it. Eventually Netflix will own and control its own content. It’s a natural evolution.” Mr. Greenfield issued a buy recommendation on Netflix on April 15, just ahead of this week’s rally.

Netflix may also have benefited from more fundamental factors. “One reason they bounced back is that Netflix has the same dual competitive advantages that characterize all of the great media franchises, which are scale and customer captivity,” said Jonathan A. Knee, senior managing director at Evercore Partners and director of the media program at Columbia Business School. “The unfortunate events of 2011 notwithstanding, those structural advantages are complemented by a real culture of operational excellence, which isn’t often the case in media or digital companies.”

With this week’s developments and the stock over $200, “in one sense I can say this is behind us,” Mr. Hastings said. “But it’s like a partially healed bone. It’s still quite fragile. Were we to make a similar mistake, we’d be right back in the penalty box. So we’re not really out of the woods. We’re growing and we’re making good progress, but we’re still not fully back to where we were.”

What advice does he offer? “Don’t get distracted by the shiny object,” he said. And if a crisis comes, “execute on the fundamentals.”
697 2013-04-27 Until recently, companies in Germany and other North European countries had come through the euro zone crisis relatively unscathed. But the E.C.B. survey found that a growing number of companies in Germany, the Netherlands and Austria were suffering, with more and more reporting that “finding customers” was now their biggest worry.

Even if the 17 countries in the euro zone are more and more in the same economic boat, though, tensions among their leaders are rising.

In a position paper prepared for a coming political convention, and quoted by the French newspaper Le Monde, leading members of France’s Socialist Party complained of what they said was “the selfish intransigence” of Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany.

Ms. Merkel, the document said, “cares only for the bank depositors of the upper Rhine, the trade balance in Berlin and her electoral future.”

Ms. Merkel raised eyebrows Thursday when, in remarks to German bankers, she said that Germany should have higher, not lower, interest rates. It is considered taboo for a political leader to try to put pressure on the E.C.B.

In the E.C.B. survey, conducted in February and March and which focused on firms with fewer than 250 employees, companies throughout the euro zone reported declines in profit, except in Germany and Austria. Even in those countries, though, earnings were flat.

Along with separate data from the E.C.B. that showed a dip in bank lending last month, the survey adds to a growing body of evidence that a recovery of the euro zone economy may not materialize until next year. The figures suggest that, while fear of a breakup of the 17-member euro zone has ebbed, the currency union is at risk of long-term stagnation.

Meanwhile, a document has come to light in which Jens Weidmann, president of the German central bank, the Bundesbank, argued that some measures by the E.C.B., which are largely responsible for the decline in financial stress, would be illegal.

Mr. Weidmann made the critique in an opinion he submitted in December to the German Constitutional Court, which is considering a complaint against Germany’s participation in measures designed to keep the euro zone together. The 29-page document was confidential until Handelsblatt, a German business newspaper, published it Friday.

Mr. Weidmann wrote that the E.C.B. would violate its mandate if it bought government bonds of euro zone members on a huge scale, as it has pledged to do if needed to keep down borrowing costs for troubled countries.

The E.C.B. has not needed to buy any bonds because the promise alone has been enough to calm financial markets. In one sign of receding financial tension, bank data compiled by the E.C.B. and published Friday showed no sign of a flight by depositors following turmoil in Cyprus last month, except in Cyprus.

Mr. Weidmann wrote to the Constitutional Court that E.C.B. bond purchases “would burden the independence of the central bank, which is a central precondition for successful fulfillment of its main duty — defending price stability.” The Bundesbank confirmed the authenticity of the document.

It is no surprise that Mr. Weidmann opposes E.C.B. bond buying, but publication of his remarks was a reminder of divisions within the E.C.B.’s Governing Council, of which he is a member.

Mr. Weidmann is scheduled to testify before the Constitutional Court in June. The court probably does not have the power to block E.C.B. action, but a ruling critical of the bank might make it harder for it to act if needed.

While an E.C.B. rate cut is now widely expected, it could be the subject of intense debate when policy makers meet Thursday. A cut may be unwelcome in Germany, where low borrowing costs have helped fuel a sharp rise in real estate prices in some metropolitan areas during the last year. That might have been part of the impulse for Ms. Merkel’s remarks on Thursday.

On Friday, Steffen Seibert, a spokesman for Chancellor Merkel, insisted that she had not intended to encroach on the central bank’s independence. “There is no reason to assume that the chancellor meant to give any kind of warning or suggestion to the E.C.B. in her speech,” he said.

As the northern countries risk sliding into recession, the downturn along the Mediterranean has been getting worse. The Spanish government on Friday gave a darker forecast for the economy, saying it expected a contraction this year of 1.3 percent compared with an earlier forecast of a 0.5 percent decline.

Next year, said Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría, the deputy prime minister, the economy would grow 0.5 percent. Unemployment would rise to 27.1 percent this year and fall to 26.7 percent next year, she said, according to Reuters.
698 2013-04-27 All Nippon said that teams of Boeing engineers had already started to replace batteries on all of its 17 Dreamliners and that fixes — which take five days per plane — would continue until the end of May. The airline said it would start using the planes again for commercial flights when the repairs had been made to its entire fleet. Japan Airlines declined to speculate on how long the fixes would take.

All Nippon said its 787s would each undergo a test flight to “confirm that no battery-related failures occur during flight.” The first test flight is scheduled for Sunday, the airline said in a statement. The carrier has said it hoped to resume regular 787 flights in June.

The airline will also install improved battery monitoring systems on its planes and put its 787 cockpit crews through additional in-flight training. After the planes are back in service, the airline will remove a sample of batteries to inspect to make sure the improvements are effective, All Nippon said.

All Nippon said it intended to set up a dedicated Web site to address passenger concerns about the safety of the 787.

“Only when we are fully satisfied with the safety of our 787 fleet will we return the aircraft to service,” Osamu Shinobe, president and chief executive of All Nippon, said in a statement.

Boeing has said that it expects to deliver another 60 planes before the end of the year and that it will produce 10 planes a month after that. United Airlines is currently the only American carrier operating the plane, and now has six 787s in its fleet.

The airlines that already own 787s are all eager to resume service, though the timing of the resumption of flights varies. LOT, Poland’s national airline, plans to begin commercial 787 flights on June 5 between Warsaw and Chicago. Later, it expects to fly its planes to New York, Toronto and Beijing. Air India said it hoped to have flights by mid-May.

United, which said earlier this week that the grounding of its 787s had cost it $11 million in the last quarter, has scheduled its 787s to start flying domestic routes on May 31 and plans international flights starting on June 10, from Denver to Tokyo and Houston to London. The airline will then fly its 787s in August from Houston to Lagos, Nigeria, as well as from Los Angeles to Shanghai and Tokyo.

The other airlines that own 787s are Qatar Airlines, Ethiopian Airlines and LAN of Chile.

American and Japanese regulators have been investigating the Japanese-made batteries aboard the 787 after one caught fire aboard a parked plane in Boston operated by Japan Airlines and another emitted smoke on an All Nippon flight in Japan, forcing an emergency landing. The incidents prompted regulators to ground the entire 787 fleet.

Norihiro Goto, the head of the Japan Transport Safety Board, said earlier this past week that investigators remained unsure what had caused the batteries to overheat. But Japan was satisfied that Boeing had now considered all conceivable potential problems that could lead to a battery fire, Mr. Goto said.

Japanese airlines have been enthusiastic buyers of the 787, Boeing’s latest-generation, fuel-efficient plane. It is the first passenger jet to use lithium-ion batteries, which are more powerful, easier to charge and lighter than older battery technologies. But they have also proved to be prone to overheating.
699 2013-04-27 The central bank also raised its growth forecasts for this year and the next. The bank said the economy would gradually accelerate to 1.6 percent growth in the fiscal year that ends in March 2016.

The optimistic projections were made as worse-than-expected economic data for March was released by the statistics bureau. Core consumer prices, which exclude food, fell 0.5 percent compared with March 2012, the fifth consecutive month of year-on-year declines.

The news added to the doubts of some economists that Japan’s grinding deflationary era would end soon. The figure “offered another reminder that deflationary pressures remain strong,” Izumi Devalier, Japan economist at HSBC, wrote in a research note. Although a gradual escape from deflation is expected, thanks in part to higher energy prices, she said the inflation rate was unlikely to match what she called the Bank of Japan’s “optimistic projections.”

The hurdle for reaching the inflation target is “getting higher,” Miwako Nakamura, an economist at J. P. Morgan, wrote in a research note.

Shortly after Mr. Kuroda took the top job at the central bank this month, it announced unexpectedly bold steps aimed at reinvigorating economic and price growth. The bank committed to inflating the economy by aggressively doubling its holdings of government bonds in two years. Mr. Kuroda described the program as “monetary easing in an entirely new dimension.” It was widely heralded as a marked change from incremental steps pursued by his predecessors.

The financial markets have welcomed Mr. Abe’s and Mr. Kuroda’s joint efforts. The Nikkei 225-stock index has risen 30 percent since the start of the year, while the yen has fallen 14 percent against the dollar — much to the relief of Japanese exporters, for whom a weaker yen is welcome as it makes their goods relatively cheaper abroad.

Several Japanese corporate giants, including Honda, Toyota and Canon, have cited the weaker yen as a reason for improved earnings and outlooks in recent days.

Honda said its net profit for the financial year that ended in March was up 73.6 percent at 367.15 billion yen, or $3.75 billion, according to Reuters. Mazda recorded a yearly net profit of 34.3 billion yen, after a 107.7 billion yen loss in the previous year.

Growth strategies aimed at stimulating private investment are the most important of the policy arrows in Mr. Abe’s quiver, Kunihiko Sugio, chief investment officer at Invesco Japan, said in a recent research note.

This “arrow,” he added, “is still in Abe’s hand waiting to be fired.”
700 2013-04-28 Mary Thom, a renowned writer, editor and intellectual in the feminist movement, died on Friday in a motorcycle accident in Yonkers. The Women&#x2019;s Media Center, where Ms. Thom was the editor in chief, announced her death on Saturday.&#xa;   &#...
701 2013-04-28 SOMERVILLE, Mass.&#xa;   &#xa;Several years ago, my mother&#x2019;s partner sent me an e-mail confessing to an emotional affair. He wrote that although he and my mother were breaking up, he wished to remain my friend....
702 2013-04-28 The Neuberger Museum of Art at Purchase College has been closed for renovations for the last 10 months. This Sunday it reopens with a free celebration from 1 to 4 p.m. and the exhibition &#x201C;Pre-Columbian Remix: The Art of Enrique Chagoya, Dem...
703 2013-04-28 BARSEL--Jan. We mourn the loss of our dear cousin, Jan Barsel. She was the sweetest, kindest, most thoughtful person. Everyone who knew her loved her. Our sympathy to her wonderful husband, Eli, and her children. Gladys Alpert and Jerry Levy and t...
704 2013-04-28 How can science, philosophy and a work of pure imagination meet to deepen our understanding of the physical world?...
705 2013-04-28 Boeing’s Dreamliner is back in the air, but questions linger about the cause of the battery overheating, the technology fixes – and confidence....
706 2013-04-28 Julia Fyrwald Heming and Jeffrey Raanan Segal were married Saturday at the Angel Orensanz Foundation in New York. Joe Haley, a friend of the couple who became a Universal Life minister for the event, officiated.

The bride and groom met at the University of Michigan, from which they graduated.

Mrs. Heming Segal, 27, is an associate at the New York law firm Masliah & Soloway. She received a law degree magna cum laude from the University of California, Hastings College of the  Law.

She is the daughter of Kristin Fyrwald Heming and Michael C. Heming of Larchmont, N.Y. The bride’s father is an architect in New York. Her mother is the director of contemporary prints at Pace Prints, a gallery in New York.

Mr. Segal, also 27, is the business development and strategy manager for Merchant Exchange, a marketing Web site in New York, which allows subscribers to customize offers from various retailers and service merchants. He recruits companies for the site and develops marketing strategies for them.

He is a son of Deborah Gravitz Astrove of Bethesda, Md., and Dr. Jerome Segal of Annapolis, Md.; and a stepson of David M. Astrove and of Heidi E. Segal.

The groom’s mother and stepfather are lawyers at the Washington law firm Friedlander Misler, where she is a partner and he is a managing partner. The groom’s father is an interventional cardiologist in Annapolis and a part-time clinical professor of medicine in the division of cardiology at George Washington University in Washington. The groom’s stepmother is an executive director at TASC, a defense contractor in Chantilly, Va., where she manages government contracts.
707 2013-04-28 Amy Marie Pederson and Anthony Gilfillan Converse were married Saturday at the Dakota in New York, in the apartment of the groom’s parents, Sue Ann Converse and Tony Converse. The older Mr. Converse, who became a Universal Life minister for the event, officiated.

The bride, 38, will continue to use her name professionally. She is an associate professor and the chairwoman of the art history department at Woodbury University in Burbank, Calif. She is also an independent curator of contemporary art. Last June, she curated the exhibition “La Quebradora: Lucha Libre in Contemporary Mexican Art” at the Mission Cultural Center for Latino Arts in San Francisco. She graduated from the University of California, Los Angeles, from which she also received a Ph.D. in modern and contemporary art history.

Her first marriage ended in divorce.

She is a daughter of Margaret E. Pederson and Raymond A. Pederson of Vancouver, British Columbia. The bride’s father, who is retired, was a physiology professor and a research scientist at the University of British Columbia. Her mother, also retired, was a guidance counselor at Kitsilano High School in Vancouver.

The groom, 48, is a partner in Santa Monica Airlines Skateboards, a store in Los Angeles. He graduated from Sarah Lawrence College.

His mother, known professionally as Sue Ann Gilfillan, is a retired television actress who appeared in episodes of “The Larry Sanders Show,” “Married With Children” and other series. His father, also retired, was a producer of the Off Broadway shows “Over the River and Through the Woods” and “The Thing About Men,” and the television film “A Question of Honor.”
708 2013-04-28 Emily Beth Chaloner, the daughter of Susan E. Yohalem of Boston and Robert S. Chaloner of East Hampton, N.Y., was married Saturday to Justin Harris Haan, a son of Linda Zane Haan and Rick A. Haan of Morristown, N.J. Rabbi Brian Zachary Mayer officiated at Cornerstone Gardens, a sculpture garden in Sonoma, Calif.

Mrs. Haan, 27, is an associate at the New York law firm Littler Mendelson. She graduated from the University of Michigan and received a law degree from the University of California, Los Angeles.

The bride’s father is the president and chief executive of Southampton Hospital in Southampton, N.Y., and a part-time lecturer at the Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health. Her mother is an independent organizational and administrative consultant to health care professionals in Boston. She works from home.

Mr. Haan, 29, is an associate at the New York law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison. He graduated from Harvard and received a law degree from the University of California, Berkeley.

The groom’s mother is the director of corporate and foundation relations at the New Jersey Audubon Society in Bernardsville, N.J. His father is an independent media and advertising consultant in Morristown.
709 2013-04-28 Rafael Nadal is a victory from his eighth Barcelona Open title in nine years after beating Milos Raonic, 6-4, 6-0, to set up a final against fourth-seeded Nicolas Almágro, who defeated Philipp Kohlschreiber, 6-2, 6-1.

¶ The defending champion Maria Sharapova beat Angelique Kerber, 6-3, 2-6, 7-5, to reach the final of the Porsche Grand Prix in Stuttgart, Germany, where she will face Li Na, a 6-4, 6-3 winner over Bethanie Mattek-Sands. (AP)
710 2013-04-28 But an investigation by The New York Times into hiring by the agency, the Empire State Development Corporation, shows how Mr. Cuomo’s administration has engaged in some of the same patronage practices that have often prevailed here.

The investigation was based on personnel records obtained through a Freedom of Information request, as well as campaign finance and other state records. Numerous interviews were conducted with state officials, employees and outside experts.

While some of the new employees at Empire State had experience in economic development, others did not. Some of the jobs were not open to competition, and were filled with little input from the agency itself.

Empire State has also hired friends of Mr. Cuomo who may help form his political brain trust should he decide to run for president in 2016.

James P. Rubin, a former State Department spokesman, was hired at the agency in 2011 as counselor on competitiveness and international affairs, with a salary of $150,000 a year. Mr. Rubin’s appointment was seen by political consultants as a move by Mr. Cuomo to add a foreign policy hand to his stable.

Empire State hired 49 people in the first 20 months of the Cuomo administration, according to personnel records obtained by The Times. Nearly a third were the governor’s political associates, donors and friends, or their relatives, the records and interviews show.

At least seven of the new hires with connections were placed in newly created positions.

Mr. Cuomo’s office said that openings at Empire State were posted on many popular job sites in 2011 and 2012, including Monster.com.

After repeated requests for evidence of the postings, the office on Saturday morning provided receipts for those of six jobs advertised on Web sites in 2011 and 2012.

The office also said openings at Empire State were advertised extensively on job banks and Web sites run by the state government.

In a statement, the office said that questions about Empire State’s hiring practices amounted to an attempt to “create a scandal.”

“We have launched marketing, advertising and outreach campaigns that are unprecedented for state government,” the statement said, adding that such questions “unfairly tarnish the reputation of those who have taken a chance by entering public service instead of joining or remaining in the private sector.”

The administration has also said it had recently retained a consultant to improve recruitment of candidates for state agencies.

When Mr. Cuomo announced in October that he was seeking to hire a consultant, he declared that he was handling the filling of jobs differently than his predecessors.

“The old appointments process was disjointed and politicized, and it lacked access to the tools used by today’s recruitment professionals,” Mr. Cuomo said in a statement.

At a time when New York’s unemployment rate is higher than the national average, Empire State is supposed to play an important role in helping the administration bolster the state’s economy. It offers loans, tax credits and grants aimed at attracting and keeping businesses.

With about 300 employees, Empire State is one of the smaller state agencies. But governors of both parties have often used it for patronage because legally, it is a public authority — nominally independent of the state government, though controlled by the governor.

As a result, its workings are not subject to as much oversight as agencies within the executive branch itself.

Still, under the state’s Public Authorities Reform Act, Empire State board members have a fiduciary duty to the mission of the agency, not to outside political considerations.

Former Assemblyman Richard Brodsky, a Democrat who spearheaded the act, said the Cuomo administration’s hiring practices had undercut reform efforts.

“Authorities are not part of the executive branch, and their leadership is legally required to make judgments in the public interest, not in the interest of the executive branch,” Mr. Brodsky said.

Mr. Adams previously ran the New York State Business Council, the leading advocacy group for business in the state, when it provided an important endorsement for Mr. Cuomo in the 2010 campaign. The Business Council has also collected money from contributors to help finance the Committee to Save New York, a lobbying and advocacy group set up with Mr. Cuomo’s blessing to promote his agenda.

Some of the new employees at Empire State seem to have benefited more than once from their connections to the Cuomo administration, according to interviews, state records and résumés on LinkedIn, the business social-networking Web site.

Mr. Younger, the recent Colgate graduate hired by the agency in June, had summer jobs in Mr. Cuomo’s office in 2011, as well as in 2010, when Mr. Cuomo was attorney general.

His father, Stephen, is a past president of the state bar association and a partner at Patterson Belknap Webb & Tyler in Manhattan. In addition to serving as a member of one of Mr. Cuomo’s transition teams after he was elected governor, Stephen Younger was a transition director for Mr. Cuomo after he was elected attorney general in 2006.

Neither Younger responded to several messages seeking comment. Josh Vlasto, Mr. Cuomo’s chief of staff, said he knew Willard Younger personally, praising him as a “tireless and exceptional worker.”

Mr. Moelis, who was hired as the $75,000-a-year strategic planning associate, graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 2010 with a degree in Assyriology, the study of ancient Mesopotamia, according to his résumé on LinkedIn. He worked for Citigroup as an analyst before being hired by Empire State.

Asked about Mr. Moelis’s qualifications, Mr. Cuomo’s office said that he had turned down an offer to stay at Citigroup before joining the agency.

Still, his ties to the administration run deep. His father, and his father’s real-estate firm, have donated a total of $75,000 to Mr. Cuomo’s campaigns over the years. His uncle, Kenneth Moelis, is a financial consultant whose firm, Moelis & Co., was hired by the administration last year as an adviser on gambling matters.

Reached by phone, Andrew Moelis declined to comment. At Empire State, he is listed as a contact on a redevelopment project that the agency is overseeing at Belmont Park on Long Island.

Maya Kriet, a spokeswoman for his father, Ron Moelis, said “there was no link between” the donation or political considerations and the hiring.

“Ron did not ask the governor or any of his staff to hire his son,” she said. “Andrew made a personal decision to join Empire State Development.”

Other employees include Rachel Adler, a $35,000-a-year press officer who graduated from the Fashion Institute of Technology in 2011. She is the daughter of Paul Adler, the former Rockland County Democratic chairman, who went to prison several years ago on federal corruption charges but is now active again in political circles.

Ms. Adler did not respond to requests for comment. Mr. Adler said he had nothing to do with his daughter’s appointment, declining to comment further.

Mr. Cuomo’s office said Ms. Adler specialized in social marketing, crediting her with helping to increase Empire State’s Twitter followers by 5,000 since her hiring in November 2011.

Some officials at the agency are friends and political associates of Mr. Cuomo. Mr. Rubin, the former State Department spokesman, knows Mr. Cuomo from President Bill Clinton’s administration. (Mr. Cuomo was Mr. Clinton’s housing secretary.)

Mr. Cuomo’s office said trade missions conducted by Mr. Rubin had helped increase the exports of 63 state companies. Mr. Cuomo also named Mr. Rubin to the board of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.

In announcing Mr. Rubin’s appointments to the two agencies in October 2011, Mr. Cuomo said, “With decades of work in government, finance and the media, James Rubin is a true national leader in international economic affairs."

Mr. Rubin declined to comment. Several others with political ties to Mr. Cuomo who were hired at Empire State either declined to comment or did not respond to phone and e-mail messages.

Rhoda Glickman is a $150,000-a-year senior vice president of arts and cultural development at the agency. She is the wife of Dan Glickman, who served in the Clinton cabinet with Mr. Cuomo and is the former head of the Motion Picture Association of America. She once ran a Congressional arts organization when her husband was in Congress, and her son Jonathan is a film studio executive.

“Her family is well known in the industry,” Mr. Cuomo’s office said.

The Glickman family has donated nearly $43,000 to Mr. Cuomo’s campaigns since 2001, according to campaign disclosure records.

Empire State also hired Irene Baker, a lawyer who had worked for Mr. Cuomo in the attorney general’s office, at a $120,000 salary, even as she was also acting as a director of cabinet affairs for Mr. Cuomo. Under the law, public authorities are required to operate at arms-length from the executive branch, raising questions about such dual roles. (Ms. Baker later resigned to take a job at Madison Square Garden.)

A number of other executives have been active in state politics. Sam Hoyt, a senior official at the agency, is a former Democratic assemblyman from Buffalo who was once involved in a sex scandal with an intern. A longtime ally of the governor, he was hired to represent the agency in the Western part of the state and earns $139,000 annually.

When the New York Legislature approved same-sex marriage in 2011, a signature Cuomo initiative, one of the administration’s allies was Ross D. Levi, executive director of the Empire State Pride Agenda. Mr. Levi was later dismissed by the group after he had a falling out with its board.

He ended up at the agency, where he earns $130,000 as a vice president of marketing.

Mr. Cuomo’s office said Empire State had hired Vincent Esposito, a former county legislator and aide in the Assembly, because he had worked on economic development projects.

But last year, Mr. Esposito was widely viewed as a leading Democrat to take on State Senator James Alesi, an upstate Republican who provided a crucial vote in support of same-sex marriage.

Mr. Cuomo took a number of steps to shore up the re-election prospects of Mr. Alesi and three other Republicans in the Senate who supported the bill.

Mr. Esposito dropped out of the Senate race in May 2012. Two months later, he received a job at Empire State.
711 2013-04-28 The next day the candidates, including Eugene Platt of the Green Party, a former Army paratrooper, will appear together at a forum sponsored by a local chapter of the N.A.A.C.P.

In a race expected to have a low turnout, the black vote could mean a lot. About 22 percent of registered voters are black, and most of them vote Democratic in a country club Republican district that supported Mitt Romney in the 2012 presidential election by 18 percentage points.

Still, even with the two candidates side by side, it might be hard to parse the differences. Each accuses the other of not being supportive enough of Boeing, which is based in the Charleston area and is the largest private sector employer in the state.

Both give a nod to the importance of education and conservative government spending. Each has laid claim to being the best fiscal manager, with Ms. Colbert Busch referring to her experience as a business executive in the maritime industry and as a mother who had to start with nothing after a messy divorce left her to raise three children alone.

With regularity, she invokes the word “trust” when referring to Mr. Sanford. It is an effort to remind anyone who might have forgotten that while governor in 2009, he gave aides a fake story about hiking the Appalachian Trail when he disappeared to spend time with an Argentine woman who later became his fiancée after his wife, Jenny, divorced him.

“He can’t be trusted to seek common-sense solutions that we need to grow our economy,” Ms. Colbert Busch said during a campaign appearance last week.

Mr. Sanford, a Republican who likes to say he was Tea Party before the Tea Party was cool, emphasizes his record. The Cato Institute, a libertarian group, rated him the most fiscally conservative governor during his tenure; for six years before holding that post, he held the seat he is running to fill now.

Once considered the likely victor in the race, Mr. Sanford has of late found himself scrambling. He is attacking Ms. Colbert Busch for her ties to the national Democratic Party, which has spent nearly $800,000 from various sources, including the House Majority PAC (thus the faux debates with Ms. Pelosi, a former House speaker).

But he is most vocal about Ms. Colbert Busch’s relative silence on the issues. She has given few interviews lately and has refused several offers for debates. Her strategy, it appears, is to count on Mr. Sanford to implode.

In a recent interview, when pressed to describe the top three issues in the campaign, Mr. Sanford said her unwillingness to express her views more publicly made them hard to define.

“I don’t know that I can fully answer that question,” he said. “The question of this campaign is, what does she believe in?”

Governmental concerns pale when from the start the race has played more like reality TV. For those just tuning in, a recap:

After a campaign that began as an apology tour and moved quickly into a redemption tour, Mr. Sanford gained traction with voters based on experience and a well-articulated plan to manage government spending.

Ms. Colbert Busch courted the vote of women, who make up 55 percent of the district. She leaned heavily on her personal story, gave tearful homages to her mother and raised money in a series of high-priced fund-raisers featuring Stephen Colbert, her younger brother and the star of “The Colbert Report” on Comedy Central.

On April 16, The Associated Press released sealed divorce documents. Mr. Sanford’s ex-wife claimed that he had slipped into her house to watch the Super Bowl with their 14-year-old son in violation of court orders. She found him leaving the property, using his cellphone as a flashlight. The two are scheduled to appear in court on May 9, two days after the election, to resolve the issue.

The Republican Party immediately pulled its support. Even if the Republicans lose the seat, the thinking went, the party can come back next year during the regular election cycle and easily take it back with a more appealing candidate.

“It’s hard to find a weaker candidate than Sanford,” said Tom Davis, a former head of the National Republican Congressional Committee.

All in all, it made for a bad week for the Sanford campaign.

“We were in free-fall,” Mr. Sanford said.

So he took out a full-page ad in The Charleston Post and Courier last Sunday to explain himself. He said that he wanted to make sure his son was not watching the game by himself, and that he could not get in touch with his wife to tell her what he was going to do.

He painted himself as the underdog, “outgunned, outmanned and outspent” by the Democrats. Referring to William Travis, the South Carolinian said to have drawn a line in the sand with his sword during the battle to defend the Alamo, Mr. Sanford asked voters to cross the line and fight with him.

Meanwhile, Ms. Colbert Busch leaned in with an appeal to Republicans, asking that they cross the line in her favor.

On Tuesday, she announced the formation of Republicans for Colbert Busch. In a particularly soapish turn, one of the organizers is Leslie Turner, a Charleston lawyer who had a contentious divorce from Teddy Turner. He is the son of the media mogul Ted Turner and is one of the candidates who ran against Mr. Sanford in the Republican primary, which was held in the first week of April.

Late last week, the House Majority PAC turned up the heat, sending a fund-raising e-mail to supporters that included Mr. Sanford’s personal cellphone number, which he had included in his newspaper ad. He said he was flooded with calls from people around the country.

Now, local polls put Ms. Colbert Busch in the lead, and Tea Party conservatives have pushed for a write-in candidate.

But with just over a week until the election, there is still plenty of time for more drama to unfold.

“That’s the great thing about South Carolina politics,” said Robert Oldendick, a political science professor at the University of South Carolina. “You don’t have to make up anything about it.”
712 2013-04-28 There are many problems with this arrangement. First, the risk assessments on various types of assets rely heavily on ratings agency grades. In the housing boom, toxic mortgage securities carrying triple-A ratings were considered low-risk, too. As such, they didn’t require hefty capital set-asides.

We all know how disastrous that was. So chalk up this plus for Brown-Vitter: Eliminating risk-weights as part of a capital assessment means less reliance on unreliable ratings.

Risk-weighted asset calculations also give bankers a lot of freedom to understate the perils in their institutions’ holdings.

The bill prevents another type of fudging by requiring off-balance-sheet assets and liabilities and derivatives positions to be included in a bank’s consolidated assets. In addition, the capital cushion that a bank would hold under the bill is liquid and can absorb losses easily. This capital measure would be more transparent than the current system and could not be manipulated.

In a truly courageous move, Brown-Vitter would require United States financial regulators to abandon Basel III. An earlier version of Basel did nothing to prevent the financial crisis and encouraged banks to binge on leverage.

Taxpayers would not be the only beneficiaries in the Brown-Vitter bill. Community banks, which weren’t responsible for bringing the nation’s economy to the brink, would be operating on a more level playing field with the jumbo banks. These large institutions have lower financing costs than community banks because the market understands that regulators will never let them fail.

“This bill will inject more market discipline on the financial services industry,” Mr. Brown said in an interview on Thursday. “The megabanks have a choice to make: they can increase their capital or bring down their size.”

Brown-Vitter has other attributes as well. It would bar bank regulators from giving nondepository institutions access to Federal Reserve lending programs. And it would make it harder for bank holding companies to move assets or liabilities from nonbanking affiliates, like derivatives bets held at a brokerage unit, to the protective umbrella of the parent company that might be rescued by taxpayers in a financial disaster.

Thomas M. Hoenig, the vice chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, supports the bill. “It’s finally taking the discussion in the right direction toward improving the stability of banks and the financial system more broadly,” Mr. Hoenig said in an interview on Friday. Brown-Vitter would also put the United States in a leadership position on financial soundness, he added, which other countries could emulate.

Both Mr. Brown and Mr. Vitter acknowledge, of course, that they will have to wage war with the financial services machine to move the bill forward. And last week, right on cue, the big-bank protection team went to work, warning of economic mayhem that would result if Brown-Vitter became law.

Standard & Poor’s, for example, published a report forecasting a possible credit crisis resulting from passage of the bill, “further reducing economic growth prospects.” With more money in a capital cushion, there would be less money to lend, the banks say.

And Tony Fratto, a strategist who represents the large banks, called the bill’s capital requirements “a penalty rate.” He added in an e-mail: “This bill is being introduced in the context of significant improvements to the safety of the financial sector.  By historical and international standards, large U.S. banks are very safe.”

Mr. Brown and Mr. Vitter are also up against the Obama administration, which continues to argue, in lock step with the banks, that the Dodd-Frank legislation has already eliminated the threat of big and risky enterprises.

But Mr. Vitter told me that risks remained in the banking system, and that he wasn’t the only one making that judgment. “There is a growing bipartisan concern that ‘too big to fail’ is still unfortunately alive and well,” Mr. Vitter said. “I’m not trying to suggest passing this bill will be a cakewalk, but it’s a completely different landscape than it was a year ago.”

Now comes the hard work of getting support for their bill from Senate colleagues.

A little over a month ago, the Senate held a nonbinding vote on the problems posed by megabanks. Its members voted 99 to 0 to “to end ‘too big to fail’ subsidies or funding advantage for Wall Street megabanks.”

Brown-Vitter would achieve those goals while also protecting taxpayers. As such, it will be interesting to see which senators retreat from their earlier positions by refusing to support the bill. Constituents on the alert for hypocrisy, take note.
713 2013-04-28 Why does a George P., Chelsea, Beau Biden, Joe Kennedy III presidential sweepstakes feel so inevitable?

There were plenty of other, less perspicacious assessments of the Bush legacy on the occasion of W.’s presidential library opening in . Josh Bolten, Bush’s chief of staff in the second term, defended 43’s economic record — two off-the-books, badly managed wars and more of the deregulation that led to toxic derivatives, government bailouts and a near collapse of the whole economy — saying it “really wasn’t so bad.”

Former Bush staffers and some on the right defended 43 in the usual debates: Was he the Decider or the Dupe? Was he smart or simplistic? The latter question is really beside the point in Washington, the capital of smart people doing dumb things.

W.’s presidency will go down in infamy because he ignored Katrina and the Constitution and cherry-picked intelligence with to build up a faux case for invading . That is why the three Democratic presidents who talked at his library’s dedication had to cherry-pick their topics, focusing mostly on W.’s good work on in .

Though he presents himself as the Batman of anti-terrorism, W. ignored the warning that Osama was going to strike and didn’t catch him dead or alive. He failed to fix the egregious problems of agencies coordinating watch lists and dropping the ball on information about terrorist suspects, which flared again in the bombings.

W. and other Bush officials continue to say they could not possibly have known that Saddam had no W.M.D. But I’m now told that Saddam sent word through the Saudis to the Bushies over and over that he had no W.M.D. and was only blustering to keep his nemesis in the neighborhood, , at bay.

and weren’t looking for the truth, and they weren’t hitting the pause button the way is with right now, sensitive to the quicksand nature of the region. They simply wanted to blast some Arabs and Saddam was a weak target, just as W. was a weak president, easily led wherever Cheney and his co-conspirator Rummy, along with their bellicose band of neocons, wanted to take him.

Obama and others praised 43 last week as “comfortable in his own skin.” That’s absurd. People who are comfortable in their own skin don’t shape their lives and actions so self-consciously, and often self-destructively, on another. W. veered between aping his father and doing the opposite of his father.

Pressed by on “CBS This Morning,” W. reiterated the unfathomable fact that he went to war with the same dictator that his father did, without ever seeking his dad’s counsel. “He knows,” W. said of his father, “that each presidential decision requires advice from people who have studied an issue.” That’s quite a rationalization. Who, after all, has studied the issue more closely than another president who decided against invading Baghdad?

Sadly, no one in W.’s inner circle studied the issue. As has noted, there was no proper debate or meeting of the before the invasion. W. went to war on body language, manipulated by the war-mongering gargoyles who would also bring us torture, domestic spying and secret prisons.

“I can’t remember a specific incident where I called up and said, ‘What do I do?’ ” W. said about getting advice from his level-headed dad.

And that’s the shame of it.
714 2013-04-28 Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s have settled two long-running lawsuits seeking to hold them responsible for misleading investors about the safety of risky debt vehicles that they had rated.

The lawsuits had accused Moody’s, a unit of Moody’s Corporation, and S.& P., a unit of McGraw-Hill Companies, of negligent misrepresentation over their activities regarding the Cheyne and Rhinebridge structured investment vehicles.

Morgan Stanley, which marketed both debt vehicles and helped structure the Rhinebridge one, also settled.

Settlement terms were not disclosed in the cases, which had been brought in 2008 and had sought more than $700 million of damages. Both lawsuits were dismissed with prejudice, meaning they cannot be brought again.

Spokesmen for Moody’s, McGraw-Hill and Morgan Stanley confirmed their companies’ settlements on Friday.
715 2013-04-28 The arrest is the latest chapter in a bizarre case that began during the tense week of the Boston Marathon bombing. The authorities announced that letters addressed to President Obama and Senator Roger Wicker, Republican of Mississippi, had been found to contain a “suspicious granular substance,” which was later determined to be ricin, a deadly poison. A similar letter with the substance was also sent to Judge Sadie Holland of Lee County Justice Court.

The letters spoke of “Missing Pieces” and were signed “I am KC and I approve this message,” both standard parts of e-mail messages sent to public officials by Mr. Curtis, who had been on a one-man campaign for more than a decade to expose what he said was an illicit organ-harvesting scheme at a Tupelo hospital.

Mr. Curtis was arrested on April 17. While he was in custody, federal agents searched his home as well as the home of a former wife, but found no evidence tying him to the letters.

Law enforcement officials said on Saturday that the letters had been carefully written to mimic Mr. Curtis’s characteristic phrasing and concerns. Though they regretted having arrested a man they now consider innocent, they had wanted to move quickly to prevent more poisoned letters from being sent, one official said.

Mr. Curtis’s brother Jack said that neither he nor other relatives immediately dismissed the charges as false, given Mr. Curtis’s history of mental illness.

“We could understand, especially with the things that were tied to his initials,” he said. “I could see why somebody would think it was Kevin. But when they said President Obama, I thought, ‘Somebody messed up because he likes Obama.’ ”

The family said that Mr. Curtis might have been framed, and Jack Curtis said he told the authorities to look at Mr. Dutschke, who used to work for him and had long had an antagonistic relationship with Mr. Curtis.

In a hearing in federal court last Monday, Mr. Curtis’s lawyer mentioned Mr. Dutschke by name. Mr. Dutschke and Mr. Curtis had feuded, mostly online, on a variety of topics, including their music careers, Mr. Curtis’s admittedly false claim of being a member of Mensa, and Mr. Dutschke’s unwillingness to publish the organ-harvesting accusations in a local newsletter.

Mr. Dutschke, a bright but often abrasive man who ran unsuccessfully for the state legislature, was arrested this year on charges of molesting three under-age girls, one as young as 7. He pleaded not guilty this month.

On Tuesday, Mr. Curtis was released, the charges against him dropped. At a news conference, Mr. Curtis said he did not blame the authorities but added that “this past week has been a nightmare for me and my family.”

On Tuesday and Wednesday, federal agents searched Mr. Dutschke’s home and his former school, Tupelo Taekwondo Plus. James D. Moore, the prosecuting attorney for Lee County, said evidence had been found but he would not characterize its nature.

As he became the focus of the inquiry, Mr. Dutschke denied having anything to do with the ricin letters but tried to keep a low profile, to the point where the authorities briefly lost track of him.

The strangeness of the whole series of events was not shocking to some who know both men.

“There’s been bad blood between those two for years,” Mr. Moore said. Of their entanglement in this case, he added, “Hindsight’s 20/20, but knowing these two guys, I ain’t surprised.”
716 2013-04-28 Ms. Gerdes, who maintains a flock of about 80 birds of various species, has operated Tier Haus, whose main business is raising sheep and goats for meat, since 2006; she started selling goose and duck eggs around 2008. Demand has steadily increased each year, she said during a recent walk through the noisy henhouse, where she paused at a nest to collect a still-warm white duck egg. Later, she would wash it and deposit it in a carton of a special size, stamped with the “Jersey Fresh” logo.

Michael Westendorf, a cooperative extension specialist and associate professor in the department of animal sciences at Rutgers University, said that small, noncommercial egg producers throughout the state were noticing an uptick in demand for fresh eggs. “Free-range has been important for a while,” Mr. Westendorf said. But lately “we’re seeing a lot of interest in niche markets,” like duck, goose, quail and ostrich eggs, he said.

Duck eggs, which are slightly larger than extra-large chicken eggs, and goose eggs, which are about three times the size of jumbo chicken eggs, are prized by bakers, Ms. Gerdes said, because they have a higher yolk-to-white ratio and are therefore richer.

“You bake a poundcake with one and you can see the difference in color — it’ll be much more yellow-orange,” she said. Duck eggs are also common in Asian cooking.

Farmers like Ms. Gerdes and Joe Silvestri, owner of the two-acre Goffle Road Poultry Farm in Wyckoff, attribute the increased popularity of nonchicken eggs in part to allergies.

“A lot of times people who are allergic to chicken eggs can eat duck eggs,” said Mr. Silvestri, 55, who packages duck and quail eggs for sale in the farm’s on-site market year-round.

Mr. Silvestri estimated that each week he sold 900 to 1,000 dozen chicken eggs and 10 dozen duck eggs, which he described as having “a strong yolk flavor.” He also sells goose and quail eggs.

Mr. Silvestri also carries the occasional ostrich egg, which he obtains from another farmer and sells with the contents drained. “People will buy them just for the shell. They like to decorate them,” he said.

Local cooks wishing to buy an ostrich egg for eating — one equals roughly two dozen chicken eggs — are not out of luck, though.

From April until early June, Todd Appelbaum, owner of Roaming Acres Farm in Hardyston, gathers about 10 eggs a day from his flock of 200 ostriches and sells them for $30 each at the Montclair Farmers Market, the Union Square Greenmarket in Manhattan, and directly from Roaming Acres.

He sells them to offset what he said were considerable feed costs; Roaming Acres raises ostriches mainly for the meat.

The taste of an ostrich egg is not dissimilar to the taste of a chicken egg, said Mr. Appelbaum, 41, during a walk around the sprawling, 69-acre farm, where he also raises bison, emus and Berkshire pigs.

The appeal is mostly novelty, he said. That may also explain the popularity of quail eggs, which are “around the size of a large gumball,” in the words of Matthew Sytsema, chef at the 70-acre Griggstown Quail Farm and Market in Princeton. Griggstown Quail sells about 1,000 dozen a week year-round at an on-site store and at farmers markets. Its customers include wholesalers and restaurants, like the Bernards Inn in Bernardsville. The farm also sells pheasant eggs from April to June, when they are available.

The difference in taste between a quail egg and a chicken egg is “very minimal,” Mr. Sytsema, 31, said. He has prepared a short spiel for the benefit of curious customers who ask questions at farmers markets: “I tell them, anything you can do with a chicken egg you can do with a quail egg. But chefs usually use them for appetizers, because they look good.”

Sometimes he wishes quail eggs were not as appealing as they are, he added.

“We take a lot of orders for them for parties,” he said. “They’re so little, and they’re not the easiest things to peel.”

Cooking ostrich eggs presents different challenges, Mr. Appelbaum said. The shells can be difficult to crack, because they are thicker and harder than the shells of chicken eggs.

“You also have to find a really big frying pan,” he said.
717 2013-04-28 The cartoonist Al Capp, John Steinbeck wrote in 1952, “may very possibly be the best writer in the world today.” As Michael Schumacher and Denis Kitchen document in “Al Capp: A Life to the Contrary,” he could also be one of the most contentious. Capp (1909-79), whose comic strip “Li’l Abner” ran for 43 years and reached 90 million readers at its peak, was a celebrity: a radio personality, magazine essayist, talk-show regular and college speaker. Among his strip’s contributions to the cultural landscape were the expression “double whammy” and the invention of Sadie Hawkins Day, a mock holiday (and national craze in its time) that inspired Sadie Hawkins dances, to which women could invite men. Underlying Capp’s antic humor and prodigious productivity, however, was a toxic chip on his shoulder.

Two circumstances may have played a part: an impoverished upbringing, the result of a Yale-educated but feckless and itinerant father; and the loss of a leg when, at 9, Capp was run over by a trolley in New Haven. An amputation didn’t stem his motivation; rather, it seemed to spur it. (Capp often counseled disabled war veterans, citing himself as an example of surmounted misfortunes.)

But he was always driven, temperamental and not above deceit. When he was a teenager, he and a friend hitchhiked and scammed their way down South (a trip that possibly inspired “Li’l Abner,” whose title character, a naïve hayseed, lived in the fictitious rural hamlet of Dogpatch with Mammy, Pappy and a host of country caricatures). Later Capp bluffed his way into art schools, moving among them when it was discovered he lacked tuition.

As an assistant to Ham Fisher, who drew the hit strip “Joe Palooka,” he added characters behind his boss’s back and left the studio acrimoniously. Their parting led to a bitter public feud lasting until Fisher’s suicide in 1955 and even beyond. Capp often fought with those closest to him; his battles with his brother Bence, who ran many of his enterprises, ended in estrangement. There were other feuds, real (with Margaret Mitchell) and contrived for publicity (with Allen Saunders, who wrote “Mary Worth”).

Capp licensed and merchandised “Li’l Abner” to the limit, with toys and advertisements, not to mention a successful Broadway musical, two movies, television spin­offs and even a theme park, Dogpatch USA. His character the shmoo — a creature that supplied almost all material needs — was a marketing bonanza by itself.
718 2013-04-28 It has quickly become one of New York’s top young groups, a polished and spirited ensemble comprising recent graduates from the major conservatories, Yale and Princeton. After studying at precollege divisions of the Juilliard School and the Manhattan School of Music, the Carpenter siblings attended Princeton and majored in politics; Sean also holds a postgraduate degree in political theory from Cambridge.

For the orchestra, they seek musicians “who don’t treat it as a job,” Lauren Carpenter said.

“It’s so easy to find musicians in New York who make music because they have to,” she added. “It’s routine. We want to be with people who still have that passion, who are as excited as we are.”

Salomé is collaborative, she said, but “obviously we don’t want it to be a complete democracy,” where “it becomes a headache for everyone.”

Philanthropy is a major component of Salomé, which frequently performs charity concerts. Such events also offer the ensemble a chance to expand its mission of attracting new listeners.

Scrolling on his phone, David Carpenter showed photos of a recent fund-raiser that Salomé helped create for the FEED Foundation, an event attended by celebrities, including Bill Clinton. “We will also have A-listers at our next gig,” he said, adding that it’s important to “bring the glamour back” to classical music.

Ms. Carpenter, describing some of her ideas for eye-catching photo shoots, said: “A lot of people don’t realize how visual and physical music is. When I go to a concert, be it the New York Philharmonic or Beyoncé, I want more than one sense to be stimulated.”

That is one reason the Salomé musicians perform standing, she added, “to encourage people to be much more communicative and physical when playing.” A recent YouTube video shows the charismatic David Carpenter gyrating like a willowy Elvis during a performance of the “Murka Variations” by Alexey Shor and Oran Eldor.

Apart from looking for impeccable musicianship, Ms. Carpenter said, they also recruit a certain personality type for Salomé.

“We’re all very clean-cut people,” she explained. “Some musicians are notorious for not being responsible, getting drunk all the time, not being pleasant. For us, making music is an honor, and we want to make music with people we respect and love. And there’s an intangible there. Like when you evaluate an instrument.”

Evaluating instruments is also an area of expertise for the siblings. Salomé is financed in part by Carpenter Fine Violins, another family enterprise, which sells Stradivaris, Guarneris and instruments by other Italian or French masters. The Carpenters founded the business in 2010 and operate it from their home.

Ms. Carpenter calls it the day job for her and Sean. She said she saw “huge opportunities” in the instrument market.

“When you have ownership, and a part of something you helped create, it’s more empowering,” she said. “It falls within our orbit, connecting musicians with the patrons.”

Sean Carpenter said that the first year was difficult. But “we had clients and proved that there was demand for it,” he added. Since the beginning of 2011, the business has brought in more than $50 million in revenue. “We also invest in art, but our comfort zone is instruments,” he said.

The walls of the family home are decorated with paintings, including a newly acquired 1964 de Kooning. David Carpenter discussed his enthusiasm for art and showed his impressive renderings of sketches by Leonardo da Vinci and others.

“It helps you as a musician as well,” he said. “People say you have to focus on one thing, but I completely disagree. If that was the case, I would get up on stage and know that the viola is the only thing I have to help me, so I’d be nervous all the time.”

He is surprised when colleagues mention stage fright. “It’s a joy to be playing for people,” he added. “What better feeling can you have? I don’t understand it. I think it stems from teachers putting students down, and the competition.”

While Sean and Lauren Carpenter focus on the violin business and Salomé, David, whose teachers include Yuri Bashmet and Roberto Diaz, is forging ahead with his solo career. Reviewing his 2007 concert at Weill Recital Hall, Allan Kozinn wrote in The New York Times that David Carpenter “faces a daunting career path” as a soloist.

But David remains undaunted, although he expressed frustration that orchestras often reserve concerto opportunities for their principal violists instead of hiring outside soloists.

“If you’re out of shape and playing an incredible number of works every year, and then you get up and play the Bartok Viola Concerto, that’s a mistake,” he said. “That’s not to put anyone down, as there are incredible principals out there.”

He has released two CDs on the Ondine label, including one with Mr. Eschenbach and the Philharmonia Orchestra that features Lionel Tertis’s arrangement of Elgar’s Cello Concerto for viola, a showcase for his remarkably sonorous tone and passionate musicianship. It includes a potent rendition of the Schnittke Viola Concerto.

Also on Ondine, David has released the premiere recording of recently discovered concertos by Joseph Martin Kraus, a contemporary of Mozart. Future projects include a performance of a transcription of Beethoven’s Violin Concerto with Salomé.

“I try and shy away from chamber music or teaching,” David Carpenter said. “Maybe it’s an ego thing.”

David added, “I want to widen the role of the viola as a solo instrument, as opposed to being that second citizen.”

The dynamic Carpenter siblings certainly seem to be enjoying their various missions: connecting patrons and string players, finding new paths for the viola and using Salomé as a vehicle to attract new listeners. “It’s great,” Ms Carpenter said, “to try and change the face of what classical music concerts can be.”
719 2013-04-28 Something tells me Anthony Weiner should quit while he is ahead — he has an accomplished wife who loves him, a healthy and happy son, a supportive extended family and the ability to live on Park Avenue South despite being a stay-at-home dad. If he has a passion to help the citizens of New York, then he can certainly do so without running for office. There are many people who do great things far from the limelight. Or is it the limelight that this man really craves? SHARON AUCOIN, North Andover, Mass., posted on nytimes.com

The most disconcerting aspect of this piece was that in talking about the city’s next, very important election, Weiner didn’t seem driven by a passionate desire to advance any big ideas for New York, to deal with the post-Sandy rebuild, to address the continuing challenges of the city’s schools or any other critical issues as New York enters its post-Bloomberg era. Weiner should run only if he has distinctive and important ideas to bring to the mayoralty. SUSAN P. BORDEN, Calgary, Alberta, posted on nytimes.com

Although Huma Abedin appears to be the hero of this piece, not Weiner (who comes off overly emotional and uses therapy-speak), we continue to focus primarily on her role as, well, “the good wife.” It’s totally reductive to put Abedin on a pedestal as Weiner’s forgiving, “graceful” spouse. Doing this saddles her with a stereotype that’s entirely based on her husband and his transgressions, and undermines her own professional accomplishments. We should let her stand on her own. Yes, she should totally be the one running for mayor. But on her own merit, which is obvious enough. Not for being a forgiving, “ideal” wife. ANNA BRESLAW on cosmopolitan.com

The most interesting thing about this article on Anthony Weiner is the way the meta-narrative — meaning the narrative about what we’re reading and why we’re reading it — is fully exposed in the article. What used to be the hidden agenda is now made clear at the outset: Weiner and Abedin are doing this, and The Times is writing about it, because Weiner wants a comeback. Personally, I’m a fan of the meta-narrative. It’s ultimately more honest. We get to decide whether we’re getting played; we get a better perspective to judge whether the tears are real or a ruse. Will Anthony Weiner run for mayor? Absolutely, yes. Will he win? Doubtful. This trick sort of worked for Eliot Spitzer, it didn’t work at all for Lance Armstrong and Weiner is not as lovable, forgivable or charismatic as Bill Clinton. BRUCE FEIRSTEIN on vanityfair.com

HOW RAYMOND DAVIS HELPED TURN PAKISTAN AGAINST THE UNITED STATES

Regardless of whether relations between the United States and Pakistan are good or bad, we should never send guys like Raymond Davis out there to represent us. Neither experienced nor temperamentally suited, many of these contractors are disasters waiting to happen. Private companies don’t have the level of accountability we need, and these folks must be exhaustively vetted before we send them out to sensitive areas of the globe. MARY H. CLARKE, Nashville, posted on nytimes.com

As someone born and raised in Peshawar, right next to the Afghan border with Pakistan, I think U.S. policies regarding Pakistan and terrorism are out of sync with on-the-ground realities. Can you imagine what would happen if an undercover Inter-Services Intelligence operative shot up two American civilians in Washington? As the death toll from drone strikes keeps rising, so does the anti-U.S. sentiment, not only in the tribal belt but also, more damagingly, in the urban centers. It’s about time everybody owned up to their respective “dirty deeds.” I’m not saying we’re perfect, I’m only suggesting that neither are you. MUHAMMAD AHMAD, Islamabad, Pakistan, posted on nytimes.com

While there’s little doubt that the United States has made numerous mistakes in regards to its relationship with Pakistan, I think it’s important to highlight the role of the Inter-Services Intelligence in the insurgency in Afghanistan. I’m currently serving my second tour in Afghanistan, and there’s no doubt in my mind that the ISI is fueling the insurgency here. We can all debate the efficacy of the war in Afghanistan and point out the myriad mistakes that we’ve made. But we should understand that the ISI has been waging a war against American soldiers for years. That much is not up for debate. W.S., Kandahar, Afghanistan, posted on nytimes.com
720 2013-04-28 The doctors could address my symptoms. But they didn’t much care about my vanishing sense of self....
721 2013-04-29 A senior executive in the inner circle of  Jamie Dimon ,  JPMorgan Chase &#x2019;s chief executive, is leaving, the latest departure after the bank reported a multibillion-dollar trading loss last year. &#xa;   &#xa;Frank J. Bisignano, co-chief op...
722 2013-04-29 WEISS--Philip, of Lake Worth, Florida, passed away on April 27, 2013 at the age of 92. Phil was the Director of Development at Brookdale Hospital for 35 years. He and Renee, his wife of 60 years lived in N. Woodmere. After Renee passed away, Phil ...
723 2013-04-29 BARSEL--Jan. We mourn the loss of our dear cousin, Jan Barsel. She was the sweetest, kindest, most thoughtful person. Everyone who knew her loved her. Our sympathy to her wonderful husband, Eli, and her children. Gladys Alpert and Jerry Levy and t...
724 2013-04-29 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. For Monday, selections include revisiting Google’s acquisition of Motorola Mobility, a look at how a move to digital games could eventuall...
725 2013-04-29 Carl Fremont joined MEC, New York, part of the GroupM unit of WPP, in a new post, global chief digital officer. He had been executive vice president and global media director at Digitas, part of the Publicis Groupe.

Whitney Hill joined Condé Nast Entertainment, New York, part of the Condé Nast division of Advance Publications, in a new post, senior vice president for business development and strategy. She had most recently been senior vice president of strategic partnerships for the global digital business at Sony Music Entertainment, part of the Sony Corporation.

Chris Macdonald, chief executive at the London office of McCann Erickson Worldwide, part of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies, was named president for the flagship New York office of McCann Erickson. He assumes duties from Hank Summy, who had been president for the McCann Erickson operations in North America; Mr. Summy takes a new post, president for commerce at the MRM Worldwide unit of the McCann Worldgroup. Mr. Macdonald’s duties at the London office are being assumed by Rob Doubal and Laurence Thomson, co-executive creative directors at the office, who are being promoted to co-presidents and chief creative officers at McCann Erickson London.

Marriott International, Bethesda, Md., expanded its relationship with Grey New York by naming it to handle public relations for the Marriott Hotels and Resorts brand in addition to creating advertising. Billings were not disclosed. The assignment had previously been handled by Burson-Marsteller, New York, which continues as the corporate public relations agency for Marriott International. Grey New York is part of the Grey division of the Grey Group, which is owned by WPP. Burson-Marsteller is part of the Young & Rubicam Group division of WPP.

Joe McCann joined the New York office of Mother in a new post, director for creative technology. He had been mobile and platform architect for product at Bazaarvoice, Austin, Tex.

Andrew McKechnie joined DDB New York, part of the DDB Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group, as group creative director, overseeing the agency’s new worldwide Reebok account. He had been executive creative director at Y&R New York, part of the Y&R division of the Young & Rubicam Group, which is owned by WPP.

Spiro Mifsud joined Tribal Worldwide, New York, in a new post, head of technology. He had been director for mobile and emerging technology at McGarryBowen, New York, part of the Dentsu Network unit of Dentsu. Tribal Worldwide, formerly known as Tribal DDB Worldwide, is part of the DDB Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group.

Neev, Bangalore, India, a software service provider, agreed to be acquired by the Publicis Groupe, Paris, and will operate as Razorfish Neev, part of the Razorfish unit of Publicis. Financial terms were not disclosed. The deal represents the introduction of the Razorfish name to India.

Marie Newman joined Sequence Consulting, Chicago, in a new post, chief marketing officer. She had owned her own consultancy, Marie Newman & Associates.

Fredrik Peterhoff joined SelectNY in a new post, executive creative director, based in the agency’s Los Angeles office. He had most recently been creative director for photography at Anthropologie.

Republic Wireless, Cary, N.C., named the Via Agency, Portland, Me., as its first agency, to handle integrated marketing for the start-up wireless carrier. Billings were not disclosed.

Miles Turpin joined Innocean USA, Huntington Beach, Calif., part of Innocean Worldwide, in a new post, vice president and retail group creative director, leading the agency’s retail group that works with Hyundai dealer advertising associations. He had most recently been senior creative director overseeing the Toyota dealers of Northern California account at Hoffman/Lewis, San Francisco.

Kathy Walters joined Brokaw, Cleveland, as an account director. She had been an account director at JWT Action, part of the JWT unit of WPP.

Beverly Wright joined AbelsonTaylor, Chicago, as vice president and account director. She had been senior vice president and account director at Leo Burnett, Chicago, part of the Publicis Groupe.
726 2013-04-29 With an expanded budget for dividends and stock buybacks, Apple could be on track to borrow nearly $20 billion a year, putting the company in the same issuance ballpark as huge global banks....
727 2013-04-29 Instead of selling just its document imaging operation to Brother, Kodak will instead spin off the unit, along with its personal imaging arm, to its British pension plan....
728 2013-04-29 The Times’s Amy Chozick discusses the fallout of a hacked Twitter message that dropped stock prices last week and is now raising questions in the markets.
729 2013-04-29 Whether an owner supports the law is not necessarily determined by how onerous it will be. “We don’t have to be told to do it,” said one owner....
730 2013-04-29 Using a different brand of tires on the Honda Fit Sport appears to be the cause of a 44,000-vehicle recall....
731 2013-04-29 After a Twitter hoax caused the Dow to drop temporarily by 150 points, regulators are increasingly concerned about the combination of social media and high-frequency trading....
732 2013-04-29 Why the United States is a hot, emerging market. Here comes the online sales tax. And why you shouldn’t take taxis in Las Vegas. Also, do you think you understand your own business?...
733 2013-04-29 Rafael Nadal won the Barcelona Open for the eighth time Sunday, defeating Nicolás Almagro, 6-4, 6-3, for his fourth title of the year. This latest victory, with the French Open approaching next month, is a promising sign that Nadal is getting back to full strength after a knee injury that sidelined him for several months.

After trailing, 3-0, in the first set, Nadal found his form and broke his fellow Spaniard in three of his next four service games to take command in a final played in a drizzle. He has made six straight finals since returning.

¶ Maria Sharapova beat Li Na, 6-4, 6-3, to retain her WTA Porsche Grand Prix title in Stuttgart, Germany, in a final between the last two French Open champions. ¶ The former French Open champion Francesca Schiavone won her first title in nearly a year, beating Lourdes Dominguez Lino, 6-1, 6-3, in the Grand Prix SAR final in Marrakesh, Morocco.
734 2013-04-29 The Republican primary is a three-way competition, with relatively little-known candidates in a race that analysts said was difficult to poll because so few Republicans were likely to vote.

The Republicans are Gabriel Gomez, a private equity investor and former member of the Navy SEALs who had never run for office before, although he did unsuccessfully ask Gov. Deval Patrick, a Democrat, to appoint him to Mr. Kerry’s Senate seat until voters chose a replacement; State Representative Daniel B. Winslow, who is known for gestures that are intended to attract attention but that have not brought him much in this campaign; and Michael J. Sullivan, a former United States attorney and onetime acting director of the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, who has done little in this race to turn any expertise in fighting terrorism to his advantage.

In the shadow of the bombings, the campaigns have focused in the last week on matters of national security.

Mr. Lynch has been airing a television commercial in which he does not mention his candidacy but speaks directly to the camera, saying: “My heart goes out to the victims of this unthinkable terrorist attack.”

At a Democratic debate last week, Mr. Lynch sought to cast Mr. Markey as soft on terrorism. He came down hard on Mr. Markey for what he said was a vote against forming the joint terrorism task force that helped track down the bombing suspects. But it turned out that the task force that pursued the marathon bombers had been created by the F.B.I., not by a vote in Congress. In another debate last week, Mr. Lynch called Mr. Markey a liar.

Jeffrey Berry, a political scientist at Tufts University, said, “It’s been difficult for Lynch to attract attention, which explains his aggressiveness in the debates.”

He added: “But Lynch’s problem is that his political profile doesn’t fit that of the Massachusetts Democratic primary electorate. The small number of people who will vote will be upper-income, higher-educated, suburban liberals who are much more comfortable with Markey.”

Nonetheless, Mr. Markey’s campaign, which had been running television commercials aimed at women and highlighting his support for abortion rights and equal pay for equal work, also began focusing more on security.

It is airing a spot that features a flight attendant lauding Mr. Markey for forcing the airlines to screen cargo. And at a get-out-the-vote rally Saturday in Somerville, speakers including Sheriff Peter J. Koutoujian of Middlesex County, where one of the bombing suspects was killed and the other was captured, praised Mr. Markey for steps that he had taken to bolster law enforcement.

In his own remarks, Mr. Markey generally stuck to his political stances, stating, for example, that his vote for President Obama’s health care plan was the proudest of his career — and noting that Mr. Lynch had voted against it.

Mr. Lynch, who campaigned Saturday in East Boston at the finale of an annual motorcycle ride for wounded veterans, said it was hard to assess the effect of the bombings on the primary.

“We had momentum going forward, and when this happened, it certainly interrupted that,” he said. “I’m not sure whether we’ve regained that or whether we can, but we certainly feel the election is much closer than it started out and we’ve got a chance to win.”

Mr. Markey raised $4.8 million in the first three months of the year, compared with Mr. Lynch’s $2.3 million, which included a transfer of $744,000 from his House political account. Mr. Markey had spent $1.4 million on television ads through Saturday, leaving him a substantial sum for the general election, while Mr. Lynch had spent $1.1 million on television, according to Kantar Media/CMAG, which tracks spending on political ads.

Among the Republicans, Mr. Gomez had raised $1.2 million, Mr. Winslow $395,000 and Mr. Sullivan $174,000.

Mr. Gomez, who ran the Boston Marathon this year, is the only Republican who has advertised on television. As he worked his way through motorcyclists at the start of the ride for veterans, in Everett, he said his campaign was now in full gear.

“We’ve been respectful and slow getting back in, but you can’t let the terrorists win,” he said, noting that he was making 58 stops in 29 towns in the four days before Tuesday. He said his message of being an outsider — one with military experience who understood the dangers facing the country — resonated after the bombings.

But there are few predictions of who might win the Republican primary.

“We don’t know what’s going on on the Republican side because there are too few Republicans in the samples,” said Mr. Berry, the political scientist. But he said that Mr. Winslow appeared to be struggling, and that Mr. Sullivan had been hurt by his lack of money.

Still, Mr. Berry said, “Sullivan is the true conservative, and if conservatives turn out, he stands a chance of winning, because Winslow and Gomez would split the moderate vote.”

The general election is set for June 25. By that time, the bombings may no longer dominate the headlines. But the criminal trial of James (Whitey) Bulger, the mobster whose exploits have obsessed Bostonians for decades, is expected to be under way by then and could prove a distraction from the general election.
735 2013-04-29 In 2011, Russian officials sent a warning about Mr. Tsarnaev’s extremist views to both the F.B.I. and the C.I.A., saying they believed he was coming to Dagestan, a republic in southern Russia, to connect with underground groups. That warning was based on telephone conversations intercepted by Russian intelligence, including one between Mr. Tsarnaev and his mother, in which they discussed jihad, Russian authorities have told the F.B.I.

Experts on the effort by Russian authorities to contain the Muslim insurgency in Dagestan and elsewhere in the North Caucasus region said that if officials were aware of Mr. Tsarnaev’s arrival in Dagestan in January 2012, he probably would have been under scrutiny throughout his time there.

“He would have been flagged at the airport, when he entered Dagestan and when he went to the mosque,” said Jean-Francois Ratelle, a Canadian scholar at George Washington University who is studying the insurgency in Dagestan. Mr. Ratelle said that in his own research trips to Dagestan, he had been stopped almost every day on the street by police officers checking his registration papers, in part because he has a beard, which is seen as a possible sign of religious devotion.

It is unclear how closely the police were tracking Mr. Tsarnaev, but his mother described at least one instance in which her son was stopped by the police along the beach in Makhachkala, where Mr. Tsarnaev’s parents live, and brought in for questioning.

“He’s like: ‘The police came there and they asked for documents,’ ” Ms. Tsarnaeva said at a news conference last week. “They asked him to follow. He was asking them, he was like in shock. He’s like: ‘What, is there something wrong with me? Am I strange, or don’t look like everybody?’ ”

At the news conference, the brothers’ father, Anzor Tsarnaev, acknowledged that Mr. Tsarnaev had occasionally prayed at a mosque on Kotrova Street in Makhachkala that is known as a gathering spot for some Salafists with extremist views. The mosque is just a short walk from the soccer stadium for the local Dynamo team. Graffiti, written in stark red on a white wall nearby the mosque says, “Victory or paradise.”

In an interview, the imam at the Kotrova Street mosque, Khasan-Khadzhi Gasanaliev, said he had never met Mr. Tsarnaev, and none of the men interviewed outside the mosque over the course of several visits said they had known him. Videos posted by Mr. Tsarnaev indicate that he was familiar with Muslim rebel leaders in Dagestan, and investigators have been seeking to determine if he met with any of them in person.

The account in Novaya Gazeta said that one of Mr. Tsarnaev’s contacts was Mahmoud Mansur Nidal, who was killed on May 19 after a standoff with Russian authorities at an apartment house in Makhachkala. Surrounded by Russian security forces, Mr. Nidal took several hostages, according to the news agency Interfax, and at one point threw a grenade at the authorities. The hostages were released after some negotiation, but Mr. Nidal refused to surrender and was shot dead, Interfax reported.

Another possible contact was Mr. Plotnikov, a Russian émigré to Canada who became disenchanted with life there, converted to Islam and then moved to Dagestan to join the Muslim insurgency. He had been trained in boxing by a well-known Russian coach in Canada and was known among the Muslim rebels in Dagestan as “The Canadian.” Mr. Plotnikov became a member of the Mujahideen of the Caucasus Emirate and had briefly been detained by Russian authorities.

Law enforcement officials have said that the marathon bombs were constructed largely according to instructions in Inspire magazine, a publication of the Qaeda branch in Yemen. But Representative Michael McCaul, a Texas Republican and chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, said on “Fox News Sunday” that “the level of sophistication” of the homemade pressure-cooker bombs used at the marathon “leads me to believe that there was a trainer.”

Mr. Ratelle, the George Washington University scholar, said most militants in Dagestan “see the U.S. as an enemy of Islam.”

“But it would not be their main target,” he said. “They wouldn’t be likely to provide training for an attack on the U.S.” The Caucasus Emirate has denied any role in the marathon bombing.
736 2013-04-29 Even as markets rebounded on Tuesday, some investors lost money on the quick decline while others made money if they bet on a sharp drop.

“In 2010, we passed Dodd-Frank, the big financial reform bill, but nowhere in there do they mention high-speed trading or technology,” said Bart Chilton, a member of the trading commission. “That’s how quickly markets are morphing. Now, here we are three years later, woefully unprepared.”

The false report (“Breaking: Two Explosions in the White House and Barack Obama is injured”) was posted on Tuesday after Syrian hackers broke into The Associated Press’s Twitter feed.

Immediately, the mood shifted on the floor of the .

“It was nine, 10, 11 seconds and it was fast and then the question was ‘Why’?” said Andrew Frankel, co-president of the brokerage firm Stuart Frankel & Company.

He said traders realized shortly after that the post was a hoax since the television screens showing Bloomberg and CNBC had nothing about an explosion at the White House. Still, the episode recalled the 2010 “flash crash,” when an automated trading program caused the Dow to sink more than 600 points, and it left a deep skepticism of social media on the trading floor.

“You look at how quickly that happened and now everyone wants to release corporate earnings on Twitter,” Mr. Frankel said, in between calling out, “Sell!” to his team. He added: “The concern is ‘How do you know what’s right and what’s not? How do you know what’s hacked and what isn’t?’ ”

Spokesmen for Twitter and The A.P. declined to comment.

Even though Syrian hackers remain the prime suspects, the trading commission is now investigating 28 different futures contracts and specifically examining the five-minute period before and after The A.P.’s Twitter account was hacked. It is looking to see if there were anomalous trades, and investors who benefited from them.

“To think it was all lost because of this hack attack is very disconcerting,” Mr. Chilton of the commission said. “We would be irresponsible if we turned a blind eye to these debacles.”

The decision to allow market information on social media came after Reed Hastings, chief executive of , had posted on Facebook that the service had exceeded one billion hours of streamed video a month, sending its stock price up.

“We appreciate the value and prevalence of social media channels in contemporary market communications, and the commission supports companies seeking new ways to communicate,” the S.E.C. said on April 2.

Two days later, Bloomberg introduced a feature on its financial data terminals that incorporates a stream of relevant Twitter posts delivered to investors. All of Bloomberg’s more than 310,000 subscribers, who pay at least $20,000 a year for access to the terminals, now have access to those posts, which the company says are clearly identified as Twitter messages.

“The S.E.C.’s decision reflects the reality that we were dealing with in that this information is being distributed by companies and investors are consuming it and we needed to get it on the terminal,” said Brian Rooney, the company’s core product manager for news, adding, “We’re not in a world where people live in a vacuum.”

At the same time, the use of algorithms designed to peruse millions of sources of information like blogs and social media to analyze and execute trades is only becoming more widespread.

“The macro trend of finding patterns in words is something that will be used more and more,” said Paul Rowady, a senior analyst at Tabb Group, a capital markets research and consulting firm.

The incorporation of social media in these algorithms is relatively new and is therefore particularly susceptible to hacking.

“A Twitter feed is structured in a way that is machine-readable, and there’s a broad following so you get strong signals about topics,” Mr. Rowady said.

Hedge funds, investors and Wall Street banks are hiring companies to sift through the hoards of social media messages. DataSift, a company that filters real-time content on social media, started in 2011 and now has more than 20 financial services clients, including

DataSift’s computer programs siphon through posts to deliver only relevant information in two to three milliseconds.

“There’s a massive tidal wave of data we can clean up and process and deliver out back to clients,” said Rob Bailey, the company’s chief executive.

The A.P.’s account was the sixth prominent Twitter account to be hacked in recent months. Accounts for , NPR and were all hacked by the Syrian Electronic Army, a group based in , which has been attacking the accounts of Western news outlets in retaliation for what it says is one-sided coverage of the Syrian civil war.

The attack on The A.P.’s Twitter account meant that its nearly two million followers quickly disseminated the false report. Security experts who have been tracking the Syrian Electronic Army now fear that the group has been emboldened.

“It wouldn’t be surprising, given the impact of this attack, for the S.E.A. to try this attack again,” said John Scott-Railton, a research fellow at the Citizen Lab, an organization at the University of Toronto that focuses on Internet security.

Experts in electronic trading cautioned that it was not only programmed trades but also human beings who played a part in the market drop on Tuesday.

“Hundreds of thousands of financial professionals would have seen this information with chaos ensuing,” said Rich Brown, global head of Elektron Analytics, a division of . “There’s no doubt in my mind that humans were reacting to this and it wasn’t just robots.”

But, he added: “The nature of electronic trading exacerbated the problem.”
737 2013-04-29 ¶ J. C. Penney, Plano, Tex., named Y&R, New York, part of the Young & Rubicam Group unit of WPP, as its creative agency of record as Penney seeks to recover from recent sales, merchandising and marketing miscues that cost the company’s chief executive, Ron Johnson, his job. Penney, which spent more than $440 million last year on advertising, had most recently been working with several creative agencies rather than using a single agency of record.

¶ Sarah Thompson, president at Droga5, New York, was promoted to chief executive, succeeding Andrew Essex, who becomes vice chairman. Also, Ted Royer, executive creative director, was promoted to chief creative officer; Kevin Brady and Neil Heymann, group creative directors, will become executive creative directors and assume Mr. Royer’s previous duties. Separately, Droga5 named three executives to lead an office in London that the agency plans to open in June. They are Kevin Dundas, who will be chief executive of the office; Nik Studzinski, executive creative director; and Olivia Legere, head of account management.

¶ ZenithOptimedia, part of the Publicis Groupe, reduced its forecast for growth in worldwide advertising spending this year to a gain of 3.9 percent from 2012. The previous forecast, made in December, called for an increase of 4.1 percent from 2012. The reduction came after cutbacks in the forecasts for ad spending in regions like North America and Western Europe; there were also increases in the forecasts for ad spending in regions like Latin America and the Middle East/North Africa.

¶ Inca, London, an agency that specializes in event production, brand sponsorship and digital advertising, is expanding for the first time to the United States, opening an office in New York, to be led by Jade Spalding as managing director.

¶ Robert M. Nutting, president and chief executive at Ogden Newspapers, Wheeling, W.Va., was elected chairman of the Newspaper Association of America. He succeeds James M. Moroney III, publisher and chief executive at The Dallas Morning News.
738 2013-04-29 But up and down the driving range, everyone is already walloping away piston-like in a grunting, sweating, titanium-shaft-fueled cacophony. You feel silly standing on one leg, arching your back and trying to rhythmically breathe through your nose.

You came to the driving range to do Pilates? Stretching seemed such a good idea when you were sitting on the couch during that January snowstorm. But now? You want to swing the big new cannon in your bag.

You grab the new driver. Setting up to the ball, you wonder if a bucket of 75 balls is going to be enough.

MAY All right, so it’s too bad you had to take off the rest of April with that bulging disk in your back.

But your physical therapist has made you good as new, and on Cinco de Mayo you tee up a ball for your first drive of the year as your friends watch.

But as you stand over the ball, your mind is blank and you’re frozen in place. Last fall, you had a good two-part swing thought to start and finish the swing. But that thought has vanished, disappearing from disuse somewhere around the third New Year’s Eve toast.

What was that effective little motto you were repeating in your head last year? Was it “low and slow”? How about “coil, uncoil”?

Whatever it was, it most likely was not “just swat at it; this standing over the ball is getting embarrassing.” But that’s what you are thinking at the moment, so you go with it.

The topped ground ball that dribbles sideways across the tee doesn’t do much for your mental preparation. Especially since you’ve never had a reliable swing thought for a 390-yard shot from the rough alongside the tee-box ball washer.

JUNE Your body is now in golf shape. You’ve even stopped taking ibuprofen after rounds. You have found a new swing thought. It came to you after you fell asleep in front of the Golf Channel during an infomercial. “Never slice again,” you say to yourself during the backswing, and then after a little pause at the top, you recite in your head: “Full refund if not satisfied.”

It’s unconventional but it has worked, so you’ve kept it.

Your full swing shots are actually going where you’re aiming. Distance off the tee is improved thanks to your new driver, which you’ve given a nickname, Buddy Big Bam.

If only your short game weren’t undermining the whole operation.

A typical hole goes like this: Buddy Big Bam slams one down the middle, and you just miss the green with a 7-iron, skull a chip to the back of the green and three-putt for double bogey.

You’ve signed up for a short-game clinic this weekend.

JULY Armed with a new belly putter and four new wedges, you are now deadly from 100 yards and in. Of course, it has helped that since the short-game clinic, you love practicing bunker shots and all kinds of tricky shots around the greens.

To get used to the belly putter, you’ve spent dozens of hours on the practice putting green next to the driving range stalls — a green you never noticed before.

You are a changed golfer. You get up and down off the green successfully about three-fourths of the time now. Three-putts are rare.

There is a problem. Buddy Big Bam has become your worst enemy, more like Buddy Way Out of Bounds. Your irons are playing Army golf — left, right, left, right.

Somehow, all the finite, nuanced tactics of the short game — and all the time spent on it — have caused your long game to desert you like a meanspirited sibling jealous of the attention focused on the new, fair-haired child in the household: the efficient short game.

Your old self and your new self are at war. The scorecard tallies up the casualties.

You are considering something drastic, like taking up tennis. It would be cheaper. And better exercise. The clothing is simpler.

You decide to do something even more radical. You change the brand of golf ball you’ve been playing.

AUGUST Golf is a joy, the greatest game ever invented. You can’t believe it was ever difficult. Replacing the Titleist Pro V1 with the Titleist Pro V1x was brilliant. Buddy Big Bam is back, the irons are crisp and the wedges and belly putter are working in unison like a clenched fist to punch double bogeys to the side of the scorecard.

Of course, it helps that you’ve now played about 40 rounds, built some muscle memory, regained your flexibility and strength, quelled the subconscious chatter in your head and developed a kinship with your putter.

So you have a nice run in a couple of member-guest tournaments, you become a sought-after scrambles partner and you start doing something you’ve never done: willingly playing as a single at unfamiliar golf courses because you’re so confident you’ll play well.

All is good, and good golf will never abandon you again.

SEPTEMBER Vacation time is over. The kids are back in school. There is a new project at work. The deck needs staining before the temperatures drop.

A lot of your friends have put away their clubs for the season. The days are shorter. There is football all over the TV on Saturday and Sunday. The weekend youth sports schedule has started, and you’ve got to drive.

You play a round or two, but the leaves are changing and it’s getting cold. You never call an end to your golf season; it just happens.

But even as you trade your golf glove for winter gloves, you smile at the thought of how well you played this season. This was the year you finally figured out this crazy game. You can’t wait to pick up where you left off next year.

It’s just a matter of getting through a few months.

OCTOBER Searching for some Halloween decorations, you come upon your golf clubs in a corner of the garage. Grinning at an old familiar friend, you grab Buddy Big Bam and walk out onto the lawn. You get in your stance and pause over an imaginary ball, preparing to take a nostalgic swing.

You hear the swing prompt in your head: “Never slice again. ...”

Oh, no. What was the rest of it?
739 2013-04-29 “The racial wealth gap is deeply rooted in our society,” said Caroline Ratcliffe, one of the authors of the Urban Institute study. “It’s here, it’s not going away, and we need to care about it.”

Many experts consider the wealth gap to be more pernicious than the income gap, as it perpetuates from generation to generation and has a powerful effect on economic security and mobility. Young black people are much less likely than young white people to receive a large sum from their parents or other relatives to pay for college, start a business or make a down payment on a home, for instance. That, in turn, makes their wealth-building prospects shakier as they move into adulthood.

Two major factors helped to widen this wealth gap in recent years. The first is that the housing downturn hit black and Hispanic households harder than it hit white households, in aggregate. Many young Hispanic families, for instance, bought homes as the housing bubble was inflating and reaching its peak, leaving them saddled with heavy debt burdens as house prices plunged in places like suburban and inland .

Black families also were hit disproportionately by the housing collapse, because heading into the recession housing constituted a higher proportion of their wealth than for white families, leaving them more exposed when the market crashed. Higher unemployment rates and lower incomes among blacks left them less able to keep paying their mortgages and more likely to lose their homes, experts said.

Discriminatory lending practices were also a factor. “We know that communities of color, their rate of subprime or predatory loans was twice what it is in the overall population,” said Tom Shapiro, the director of the Institute on Assets and Social Policy at Brandeis University.

Black families also suffered bigger hits to their retirement savings, the Urban Institute found. On aggregate, the value of black families’ retirement accounts shrank 35 percent between 2007 and 2010, while white families’ accounts actually gained 9 percent over the same period. With lower earnings and higher unemployment rates leaving them with a thinner safety net to begin with, black families were more likely to take funds out of the market when it was depressed, leaving them out in the cold as the market recovered.

“That reservoir of what you can dig into for emergencies and contingencies is a lot shallower in communities of color,” Professor Shapiro said. “That pushes black families to sling off assets, like ’s or stocks, that you might have had another goal in mind for.”

Something similar may be happening as the housing recovery takes hold. “Some people talk about it in terms of a land grab,” said Professor Hamilton of the New School, as mainly white investors are buying foreclosed homes from disproportionately minority owners. “As the housing market starts to appreciate, some of those minority buyers might not be back.”

All in all, Hispanic families lost 44 percent of their wealth between 2007 and 2010, the Urban Institute estimates, and black families lost 31 percent. White families, by comparison, lost 11 percent of their wealth. The economic turbulence worsened a gap that has persisted for as long as social scientists have measured it, and has its roots in institutional racism, they said, which, for instance, prevented black Americans from benefiting fully from the G.I. Bill back in the 1940s and 1950s.

The Urban Institute study looked at mean wealth figures, where a small number of high-net-worth families skews the averages upward. Median wealth figures — where half of households have more wealth and half less — produces lower numbers, but the trends are the same, the Urban Institute researchers said.

Even if blacks and Hispanics make progress in the years ahead as the economy improves, the persistence of the wealth gap has pushed many public policy scholars to recommend the adoption of more ambitious programs to help reduce worsening inequality.

The Urban Institute suggests reforming government policies that encourage savings but disproportionately benefit the already wealthy and families with high incomes, like the home mortgage interest deduction. Automatic savings vehicles also might help lower-income and lower-wealth families start saving, it said.

Professor Hamilton has proposed “baby bonds,” granting savings accounts to infants, seeded with funds that allocate greater sums to families with less wealth. (Such accounts would be race-blind, Professor Hamilton emphasized.) Accountholders could tap that money as young adults, to pay for college or start a business. “That’s really going to break the link of intergenerational poverty, and the intergenerational wealth gap,” Professor Hamilton argued.

But in the absence of such far-reaching measures, scholars and advocates remain generally pessimistic that the wealth gap will narrow even as members of minority groups increase their share of the American work force.

“The growth in the wealth divide is going to be very hard to close,” said Dedrick Muhammad, the senior director of the economic department at the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , the civil rights organization. “I don’t have a positive feeling about racial wealth inequality resolving itself with the recovery.”
740 2013-04-29 Mary Thom, a chronicler of the feminist movement and former executive editor of Ms. magazine, died Friday in a motorcycle accident in Yonkers. She was 68 and lived in Manhattan.

The Women’s Media Center, where Ms. Thom was the editor in chief, announced her death. Ms. Thom joined Ms. magazine in 1972 as an editor, rising to become executive editor in 1990. She was known as a journalistic virtuoso who shaped the writing of many of the feminist movement’s luminaries, including Gloria Steinem.

While she largely operated behind the scenes, colleagues described her as a zealous advocate who fought for equal pay in the United States and helped spread the ideals of the women’s rights movement abroad.

“She was a lodestone for the women’s movement nationally, and a center of trust, common sense and creativity,” Ms. Steinem said on Saturday.

Ms. Thom wrote several books, including a history of Ms. magazine, and coedited an oral history of Bella S. Abzug, the congresswoman and a leader of the feminist movement, titled “Bella Abzug: How One Tough Broad From the Bronx Fought Jim Crow and Joe McCarthy, Pissed Off Jimmy Carter, Battled for the Rights of Women and Workers, Rallied Against War and for the Planet, and Shook Up Politics Along the Way.”
741 2013-04-29 Doctors at Rome’s Umberto I Polyclinic said Sunday evening that one of the military police officers, Giuseppe Giangrande, was shot in the neck and was in critical condition after undergoing an operation. The bullet injured his spinal column, causing “important damage,” doctors said in a televised news conference, adding that they would not be able to discuss his prognosis for 72 hours.

The other officer, Francesco Negri, was shot in leg, but his injuries were not life-threatening, officials said. A woman who was passing by was also hit but was not seriously injured, according to news reports.

At a news conference, Interior Minister Angelino Alfano said an investigation would be conducted, but that the shooting appeared to be an “isolated gesture.”

Mr. Alfano said it also appeared that Mr. Preiti had intended to commit suicide, but told officers that he had run out of bullets.

A prosecutor working on the investigation said that Mr. Preiti had intended to target politicians. “He’s a man full of problems who has lost his job, he’d lost everything, he’d had to move back home, he was desperate,” the prosecutor, Pierfilippo Laviani, told the news agency ANSA. Mr. Preiti had planned the attack 20 days ago, according to news media reports.

“He wanted to strike politicians, but when he couldn’t reach them, he shot the police,” Mr. Laviani said.

After the swearing-in ceremony, Mr. Letta met with his ministers for a cabinet meeting that had been scheduled beforehand. The new government will face a confidence vote in Parliament this week.

The former interior minister, Anna Maria Cancellieri, who was sworn in on Sunday as justice minister, told reporters that the shooting had been carried out “by someone who is unbalanced.”

The shooting rattled Italy, already unsettled by a period of instability after the inconclusive national elections, which hobbled efforts to form a government. It also brought back memories of the “years of lead,” the period of social and political turmoil in the 1970s and early 1980s marked by dozens of acts of terrorism that were carried out by left-wing and right-wing radicals.

In recent years, groups that modeled themselves after the Red Brigade terrorists of that time have carried out sporadic attacks and have killed two Italian labor reform specialists. And tax agency offices have been bombed, a protest against a fiscal system that many consider to be onerous. But there has been little social tension.
742 2013-04-30 PHOTO: Photos of loved ones were posted in Savar, where at least 381 people were killed in the collapse of a building last Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WONG MAYE-E/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
743 2013-04-30 Kodak said on Monday that it would spin off its document and personal imaging units to its British pension plan for $650 million in cash and noncash considerations, a move that paves the way for Kodak&#x2019;s exit from bankruptcy protection.&#xa;...
744 2013-04-30 A new study adds to evidence that obese men may have an increased risk for future prostate cancer.&#xa;   &#xa;Researchers studied biopsies of 6,692 cancer-free men, 11 percent of whom had precancerous lesions. They selected 494 who went on to dev...
745 2013-04-30 Credit reporting bureaus have gotten better at updating their records in part because of developments related to a class-action lawsuit....
746 2013-04-30 By tying up the White House with short-term matters, Congress is making it impossible to discuss the big issues that will determine the country’s economic prospects....
747 2013-04-30 Why would a company with $145 billion in cash even bother to issue debt? The answer has a lot to do with the frenzied state of the bond markets....
748 2013-04-30 Readers object to a Sunday Review piece by a comedy writer related to the Boston Marathon bombings....
749 2013-04-30 Discovering the rich cultural heritage of Guairá, the region in the south of Paraguay....
750 2013-04-30 Coverage and live analysis of Tuesday’s Champions League semifinal second-leg match: Borussia Dortmund at Real Madrid....
751 2013-04-30 Adapted from Piper Kerman’s memoir, “Orange Is the New Black” chronicles a Brooklyn woman whose relationship with a drug runner lands her in prison for a year....
752 2013-04-30 Deutsche Bank’s stock rose on Tuesday on expectations that a $3.87 billion share sale would clear the way for higher dividend payments....
753 2013-04-30 Cadillac announced this week that semiautonomous cars could be part of its lineup by the end of the decade....
754 2013-04-30 Metropolitan Diary: Instructions given by a Hollywood director to his actors displayed his concept of typical New Yorkers....
755 2013-04-30 To Bill Courtney — entrepreneur, football coach, subject of an Academy Award-winning documentary — the secret is this: Do it all again the next day....
756 2013-04-30 This word has appeared in 209 New York Times article in the past year....
757 2013-04-30 “Fueling Up for the Long Haul” (Business Day, April 23) describes how the trucking industry is switching from petroleum to natural gas. A benefit of the shift is its impact on climate change.

Americans are learning that climate change is real. Truck fleets burning liquefied natural gas cut greenhouse gases by 25 percent. Further, they are poised to use an even better gas fuel that cuts greenhouse gases 88 to 100 percent: a renewable form of natural gas, known as R.N.G., made from organic wastes flowing from communities, businesses and agricultural operations nationwide.

R.N.G. plus L.N.G. could displace almost all diesel fuel. While not as cheap as L.N.G., R.N.G. feedstocks are endless. Gases from a California landfill now power 400 garbage trucks daily; gases from an Indiana dairy power its long-haul milk trucks. Americans should start fighting for this exciting commercial choice now.

The writer is president of Energy Vision, a nonprofit organization that promotes clean renewable fuels.
758 2013-04-30 As the main force behind the effort to limit antibiotic use in food animals, I am astonished by the letter from Bernadette Dunham, the director of the Food and Drug Administration’s Center for Veterinary Medicine, especially since she told a House committee on April 9 that she was unsure how antibiotic resistance develops.

The F.D.A. itself said in 1977 that feeding antibiotics, one of medicine’s greatest breakthroughs, to farm animals indiscriminately was dangerous to human health. Evidence on this is so clear that the American Medical Association, the World Health Organization, the Union of Concerned Scientists and 450 groups support my legislation to save eight classes of antibiotics for human health.

Scientists say strep throat could soon prove fatal. Everly Macario, a doctor in public health who lost her 18-month-old son to a MRSA infection, said it best: “I don’t know why people aren’t freaking out about the fact that we’re nearly at a post-antibiotic era.” The F.D.A., tasked with protecting the public’s health, should understand that, given the 70,000 deaths a year that are due to antibiotic-resistant infections.

The writer, a microbiologist, represents New York’s 25th District in the House.
759 2013-04-30 The frenzied process of finding an apartment in New York City just got even more fraught — not for prospective tenants, however, but for real estate agents.

The Department of Buildings has begun issuing fines to agents and brokers who advertise and show illegal apartments for rent, a new step in a long battle that has traditionally taken on owners of illegal dwellings. The fines, which have been issued to the agents and the companies they work for, begin at $3,600 and can go up to five times that amount.

“They are the people in the middle in many cases, the licensed salesperson and the broker,” said the buildings commissioner, Robert D. LiMandri. “They are the enabler. We have to hold them accountable, too.”

From January to March, inspectors combed through listing Web sites like craigslist, and then, posing as curious potential renters, went to see 50 apartments they considered suspicious. (Telltale signs of an apartment without the proper certificate of occupancy might be a listing that says all utilities are included, for example.)

The department issued fines to 10 agents, including agents at Douglas Elliman and Halstead Property, for listing apartments in a variety of neighborhoods and boroughs, including Park Slope and Brighton Beach in Brooklyn, and Hamilton Heights in Upper Manhattan. All of the apartments were in the basement or the cellar, and most did not have the required two means of egress, the department said. The department says the building code gives it the right to issue fines to agents; in the future, it may go after brokers who supervise the agents as well.
760 2013-04-30 His first trip, scheduled for Tuesday, will be to Berlin, Brussels and Paris, he said, “to give a sign that ours is a Europeanist government” and to confirm that Italy would continue with its budget commitments.

He said the fiscal rigor of the kind enforced by the government of his predecessor,Mario Monti, was an indispensable precondition to growth. But he also said fiscal rigor alone would “kill Italy” in the long run.

Mr. Letta is part of a growing European effort to question the austerity policies championed by Germany as the medicine to deal with the economic malaise in Europe, where unemployment has surpassed Great Depression levels in some places in the south and recession is creeping toward the once-resilient economies in the north.

Mr. Letta’s government is almost entirely composed of politicians from his party, the center-left Democratic Party, and from the center-right People of Liberty. They are united by a common cause: heading off economic disaster while toning down the antagonistic tenor that has dominated Italian politics for the last 20 years.

More than a decade of stagnation and protracted recession had taken a toll on citizens, Mr. Letta said. In some cases it had created a “personal vulnerability” and “lack of hope that risks turning into anger and conflict,” he said, citing an attack on Sunday in which an unemployed Italian man shot two military police officers in front of the prime minister’s office. The gunman later told investigators that he had aimed to kill politicians.

The new government was formed out of necessity after national elections in February effectively split Parliament into three factions. More than a quarter of the vote went to the anti-establishment Five Star Movement, which campaigned to overthrow the existing political class, depicted as overprivileged, overpaid and out of touch with the hardships faced by many citizens. A record number of voters abstained from the polls.

Demonstrating that the popular discontent had not been ignored, Mr. Letta said one of his government’s first orders of business would be to abolish the stipend that ministers receive on top of their salary as members of Parliament.

He pledged a series of tax cuts for small and medium businesses, and a delay in the increase of the value-added tax, a form of consumption tax, which had been set to take effect this summer.

The June payment of an unpopular housing tax would be canceled, he said, to give Parliament time to work out a reform of the tax that would “give oxygen to families,” especially those in greatest need.

Though several political parties campaigned to abolish the housing tax, it became the signature issue for the People of Liberty and its leader, former Prime MinisterSilvio Berlusconi, to support Mr. Letta.
761 2013-04-30 A man charged with making a deadly poison sent to President Obama and others was ordered held without bond until a hearing later this week when prosecutors are expected to describe what evidence they have against him. The man, James E. Dutschke, 41, made a brief appearance Monday in federal court. The authorities have said very little about him beyond announcing the charge of making and possessing ricin over the weekend. Investigators initially zeroed in on a rival of Mr. Dutschke’s.
762 2013-04-30 “Hear my voice — Alexander Graham Bell,” the father of the telephone said on April 15, 1885, enunciating carefully, his voice recorded on a wax-and-cardboard disc at an experimental sound laboratory he ran in Washington. At the time, Bell was trying feverishly to develop audio technology that would best his archrival, Thomas Edison, who had recorded “Mary Had a Little Lamb” on embossed foil in 1877, according to the Smithsonian Institution, which owns a collection of Bell’s artifacts.

Last week, for the first time, anyone with an Internet connection could hear Bell’s voice, which had been lost to posterity. In the 1880s, Bell and his colleagues had used everything from “metal, wax, glass, paper, plastic, foil and cardboard” to record sound and embed it on discs or cylinders, but modern audiologists had been unable to play them back. (The work came after Bell’s development of the telephone: the ephemeral and unrecorded plea “Mr. Watson, come here — I want to see you” was made in 1876.)

Puzzled by the mute Bell discs, a curator from the National Museum of American History reached out to a physicist at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Carl Haber, who had “succeeded in extracting sound from early recordings made in Paris in 1860,” according to the Smithsonian account. “He and his team created high-resolution optical scans converted by computer into an audio file.”

They brought in a specialist from the Library of Congress, as well as Patrick Feaster, a sound historian at Indiana University. Until recently, Dr. Feaster wrote in The Atlantic, little recorded sound had survived from before Edison introduced his Perfected Phonograph in 1888; a breakthrough came in 2008, when a collaboration called First Sounds, which included Dr. Haber and Dr. Feaster, was able to restore a French recording from 1860, a 10-second snippet of “Au Clair de la Lune” made on a phonautogram.

On June 20, 2012, the team working on the 1885 Bell recording “was transfixed as it listened to the inventor himself,” Charlotte Gray, a Bell biographer, wrote in Smithsonian magazine. Ms. Gray had wondered if Bell, who was born in Scotland but had lived in England, Canada and the United States, would have a Scottish burr. The answer was no, but “the intonation of the British Isles was unmistakable in Bell’s speech,” she wrote. “The voice is vigorous and forthright.”

If Noah had had a Soyuz rocket, he might have tried this: On Friday, a Russian and American collaboration launched a menagerie of small animals into orbit, sending geckos, mice, gerbils, snails and other creatures to space for a month. The Bion-M1 mission is “the longest flight of its kind in the Russian science program’s 40-year history,” according to the news Web site Space.com. The goal is to “help scientists understand how long-duration human spaceflight might affect astronauts.” One alluring detail: NASA scientists will be studying sperm motility in the spacefaring mice to try to figure out if humans could successfully procreate on a long space voyage.

In a separate launching, NASA sent three smartphones into orbit last week, hoping to see if the technology inside them is powerful enough to serve as the core of future low-cost satellites. The PhoneSats, as NASA calls them, are off-the-shelf Google HTC Nexus One smartphones, running the Android operating system, that are supposed to spend about 10 days beaming photos and other information back to Earth. They were sent up by Orbital Sciences Corporation, a NASA contractor, on the maiden flight of its Antares rocket. And — in a convenient echo of our opening theme — “the three devices orbiting Earth right now are cutely named Alexander, Graham and Bell, respectively,” noted National Journal. But unlike the spacebound animals, which are expected to return alive, “the phones will re-enter the atmosphere, burning up in the process.”

Sure, scientists are worried about the sequester, but some are at the mercy of something more mercurial than Congress: Somali pirates, who have effectively shut down fieldwork in the erratic patch of Indian Ocean they trawl. “There’s been no data coming out of this area for years. Zero,” Tim White, a Berkeley anthropologist whose work on hominid fossils in East Africa has been thwarted, said in an interview with National Geographic. The pirates of Somalia have created a “data hole” for scientists in “subjects as diverse as plate tectonics, plankton evolution, oceanography, and climate change,” the magazine said.
763 2013-04-30 For the more than 500 space tourists who have signed up for a trip on Richard Branson’s Virgin Galactic, Monday was a milestone: the day the spaceship that will be carrying them aloft made its first powered flight and broke the sound barrier for its first time.

“We will be going to space at the end of this year,” Mr. Branson said in a telephone interview after the test flight over Mojave, Calif. Or, he added, possibly in the first quarter of next year. He and his children are to be passengers on that first flight.

Mr. Branson founded Virgin Galactic eight and a half years ago, capitalizing on the success of the first privately financed spacecraft, SpaceShipOne, to carry people above an altitude of 62 miles, considered the edge of outer space. SpaceShipOne had only two seats, and, in its flights, carried only the pilot. Mr. Branson hired Burt Rutan, SpaceShipOne’s designer, and Mr. Rutan’s company, Scaled Composites, to build a larger version called SpaceShipTwo with seats for six passengers, each of whom would pay $200,000 to reach space. He predicted that commercial flights would begin in 2007.

That goal was delayed by technological challenges, including an explosion during a propulsion test at Scaled Composites in 2007 that killed three workers.

“It’s been a tough 8.5 years, trying to get everything right,” Mr. Branson said. “Today really was almost the culmination of all that.”

Over the past two and a half years, SpaceShipTwo has made a series of tests as a glider. On Monday morning, with Mr. Branson among the spectators, a carrier aircraft lofted SpaceShipTwo to a height of 47,000 feet before letting it go. This time, it did more than glide.
764 2013-04-30 ATHENS — At least 10 Syrian sailors were dead or missing after two cargo ships collided off the coast of the Peloponnese region in southwestern Greece early Monday, the Greek authorities said.

The Pirireis, a Cook Islands-flagged vessel carrying fertilizer, hit the Consouth, which was sailing under an Antigua-Barbuda flag without cargo, shortly before 7 a.m. about 80 miles off the coastal town of Methoni, according to a spokeswoman for the Greek Merchant Marine Ministry.

“The Pirireis sank in seven minutes,” the spokeswoman said, adding that two of the vessel’s 17-member Syrian crew were found drowned by crew members of the Consouth. The crew of the Consouth — 10 Poles, 5 Russians and 1 Filipino — were all unharmed and were helping the Greek Coast Guard search for another eight sailors of the Pirireis who were missing, the spokeswoman said. A Greek Navy helicopter was helping scour the area.

The authorities said it was unclear what had caused the collision between the Consouth, sailing from Turkey to Malta, and the Pirireis, en route to Ukraine from Algeria; the weather had been good and the sea calm. In comments to Vima 99.5, a Greek radio station, the Greek shipping minister, Kostis Mousouroulis, indicated that “human error” was probably to blame amid reports that there had been no one on the bridge of the Pirireis at the time of the collision.