1 2007-12-01 SAN ANTONIO - While the former Colorado coach Gary Barnett has expressed interest in the open Southern Methodist job, he doesn't believe that sentiment is mutual. At today's Big 12 championship game as a color commentator for SportsUSA Radio, Barn...
2 2007-12-01 Striking comedy writers have put down their pens, but it's still a target-rich environment out there. Send your jokes via the comment link below. Here's some fresh reader comedy: A man with a bomb strapped to his chest entered Hillary Clinton's ca...
3 2007-12-01 The State Supreme Court threw out a district attorney’s lawsuit against the judge overseeing the murder trial of a man accused in a rampage that began in an Atlanta courtroom. The lawsuit — which sought to force jury selection to resume in the trial of Brian Nichols and questioned whether the presiding judge, Hilton Fuller of Superior Court, should be removed from the case — should have been filed first in Superior Court, the high court ruled. Chief Justice Leah Ward Sears wrote that despite the ruling, she was disappointed with the progress of the Nichols case. Judge Fuller has suspended the trial because the state public defender’s office has cut off financing to Mr. Nichols’s lawyers.
4 2007-12-01 Ford’s share price has fallen about 25 percent since starting talks with the union in July, even though it reached a deal without walkouts like the ones at G.M. and Chrysler.

“Structural issues are clearly getting better,” an analyst at Morgan Stanley, Jonathan Steinmetz, said Friday in a research report, “but cyclical factors are clearly getting worse.”

It is an especially abrupt reversal for G.M. Its share price rose 57.7 percent last year, making it the stock with the biggest increase among the Dow Jones industrial average.

G.M.’s chief financial officer, Frederick A. Henderson, helped heighten the gloom Thursday night at a dinner with analysts in Manhattan. According to analysts’ reports, Mr. Henderson predicted that automobile sales in the United States, which are expected to be slightly more than 16 million this year, would fall to about 15.7 million in 2008.

The news caused concern, analysts said, because G.M. based its reorganization plan two years ago on an annual selling rate of 17 million vehicles, the level in the early part of the decade.

Mr. Steinmetz at Morgan Stanley said G.M. clearly expects “a tough near-term environment.”

An analyst with Lehman Brothers, Brian Johnson, said the overall economy was simply too distressed for investors to feel upbeat about the Detroit companies. He said G.M.’s shares have fallen more than Ford’s because the company’s financing arm, the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, has been hit hard by the collapse of the subprime mortgage market. Ford has little exposure to subprime mortgages.

“The good news is Ford and G.M. are no longer basket-case restructuring plays,” Mr. Johnson said. “But having turned themselves into a cyclical stock, they’re coming in at a point when investors don’t want to touch those stocks.”

On Friday, shares of G.M. rose $1.09 to $29.87, and Ford rose 22 cents to $7.51.

The deteriorating economic environment has led both G.M. and Chrysler to make more cuts. G.M. said it was eliminating shifts at three plants, and Chrysler said it would cut 11,000 more jobs, on top of 13,000 announced earlier. The news came five days after workers narrowly approved a contract, following a six-hour strike.

The reductions might not end there. This week, Chrysler’s chief executive, Robert L. Nardelli, told employees that more layoffs could be needed if the market weakens more than expected.

Separately, Chrysler’s vice president for North American sales, Steven Landry, told business students at his alma mater in Nova Scotia that Chrysler anticipated losing about $1 billion in the 2008 fiscal year, on top of a $1.5 billion loss in 2007. That was an unexpected disclosure for an executive from Chrysler, which became a private company this year and no longer has to disclose financial data.

Mr. Landry, who was speaking at a ceremony to present a donation from Chrysler, said the company expected to break even in 2008 before becoming profitable in 2009, according to The Daily News in Halifax.

A Chrysler spokeswoman, Lori Pinter, declined to confirm the figures. Mr. Landry “was speaking off the cuff and using some general examples from the standpoint of mentoring the students,” she said.

Analysts are forecasting that all three Detroit carmakers will report sales declines on Monday, when they release November figures. Toyota, Honda and Nissan of Japan, which have fewer trucks in their lineups, are expected to post increases.

Chrysler is expected to report a double-digit decline, according to Edmunds.com, which predicts an 11.2 percent drop, while Mr. Johnson expects a 17 percent decline. The analysts said they expected smaller decreases for G.M. and for Ford, whose sales have fallen for 12 consecutive months.
5 2007-12-01 Former Mayor Giuliani, once a gun-control champion, has swallowed the party’s Kool-Aid straight from the packet, not even bothering to mix it with water. “People will be allowed to have guns,” he said. “I’m not going to interfere with that.”

It can be scary for small children to watch the former mayor of New York morph into Wayne LaPierre on national TV.

I’ll concede that it’s difficult to have a thoughtful exploration of complex issues in a format that allows a candidate just 90 seconds to answer. But the Republicans, far more than the Democrats, go out of their way to present themselves as 21st-century Rambos — a childish, cartoonish posture that solves nothing and can easily lead to tragedy in a world that is in fact quite dangerous.

You’d think that a presidential campaign would be the perfect venue for a serious discussion about Iraq, the greatest foreign policy debacle in the republic’s history. But even John McCain, who frequently seems as if he is the class of this G.O.P. field, followed up his comment about appeasement allowing Hitler to flourish with the following simplistic reference to Iraq:

“I just finished having Thanksgiving dinner with the troops, and their message to you is, the message of these brave men and women who are serving there is: ‘Let us win.’ ”

How is that helpful or enlightening? What does he mean by “win?” And win at what additional cost to human life and other resources?

The Republicans running for president are embarrassed to mention George W. Bush. But with few exceptions — Mr. McCain’s principled position on torture is one — they want to continue Mr. Bush’s failed, often belligerent and sometimes sadistic policies. (On immigration, an issue ripe for demagoguery, most of the howling G.O.P. pack has sprinted away from Mr. Bush, preferring a more macho, politically exploitive approach. Mr. McCain is again an exception.)

The incessant drumbeat of brute force as the favored solution to difficult problems serves to normalize state violence to the point where we hardly notice it. Before his widely reported crack about Jesus being too smart to run for office, former Gov. Mike Huckabee talked proudly about the tough challenge he faced in “carrying out” the death penalty in Arkansas.

“I did it more than any other governor ever had to do it in my state,” he said.

The Republican Party has won a lot of elections in recent years. So maybe this crop of candidates knows something about American voters that many us would rather not acknowledge, that too many of them are small-minded, fearful, bigoted and too shallow to recognize policies that are against their own — and their country’s — best interests.

Or maybe that’s not the case at all. Maybe this lot of Republican presidential candidates is misreading the public, and placing its bet on the wrong side of history.

I hope it’s the latter. Maybe voters in the early primaries will deliver the message that a more thoughtful, insightful, inclusive and constructive style of campaigning is desired.

Maybe then we can finally get issues like torture off the table (Mr. McCain and Mr. Romney had a testy exchange over waterboarding the other night) and squarely address the concerns so many voters have about the deteriorating economic climate here at home and America’s diminished standing abroad.
6 2007-12-01 Sandy Walsh of the F.D.A. said the agency “values the evaluation done by the subcommittee members and the scientific experts that were consulted” but would not comment further.

Barbara J. McNeil, a professor of health care policy at Harvard Medical School and one of the report’s authors, said she was stunned at the agency’s sorry state.

“This was the first time that a group of people got together and really looked at all the areas that the F.D.A. has to cover,” Dr. McNeil said. “We were shocked at the scope of its responsibilities, we were shocked at how little its resources have increased, and we were surprised at the conditions those in the F.D.A. had to work under.”

The report notes that the agency’s computer systems are aging and prone to breakdowns, “most recently during an E. coli food contamination investigation.”

“Reports of product dangers are not rapidly compared and analyzed, inspectors’ reports are still handwritten and slow to work their way through the compliance system, and the system for managing imported products cannot communicate with customs and other government systems,” the report stated.

The agency often misses significant product arrivals because its computers are so poor that they cannot distinguish between shipments of road salt and those of table salt, the report said.

The Institute of Medicine, the nation’s most prestigious scientific advisory organization, concluded last year that the agency’s system for ensuring the safety of drugs needed an overhaul. Recent legislation enacted some of the institute’s recommendations.

More hearings regarding the F.D.A.’s oversight of food are in the offing, including one in the Senate on Tuesday. The report concluded that the “F.D.A.’s ability to provide its basic food system inspection, enforcement and rule-making functions is severely eroded, as is its ability to respond to outbreaks in a timely manner.”

Garret A. FitzGerald, a pharmacologist from the University of Pennsylvania and adviser to the authors, said the report was raising an alarm because “this is a crisis.” Dr. FitzGerald pointed to a series of food and drug scares that have demonstrated how little oversight the F.D.A. provides.

He blamed a “cabal of Congressional majorities and presidential administrations that has serially stripped the agency of assets.”
7 2007-12-01 It would seem to be the darkest moment in the career of a lawyer who over the years has gained a reputation for ingratiating himself to older people and finding his way into their wills or trusts, mostly as a beneficiary, but also as an executor or a trustee.

In the indictment in the Astor case, Mr. Morrissey was charged with forgery, criminal possession of a forged instrument, scheme to defraud, and conspiracy. Mr. Marshall was charged with scheme to defraud, grand larceny, criminal possession of stolen property, falsifying business records and other charges.

Mr. Morrissey has been accused in several previous cases of taking advantage of mentally incompetent people near death and then being named as a beneficiary of such bequests as a Park Avenue apartment, a Midtown Manhattan apartment, expensive art and hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash.

Those cases were settled in confidential agreements with the other interested parties. As part of those settlements, Mr. Morrissey admitted no wrongdoing.

In a gift that was not challenged, Mr. Morrissey received an annuity worth more than $100,000 from an elderly alcoholic woman who claimed to have fallen in love with him before her death a few years ago, according to a person briefed on the situation. She kept a photo of Mr. Morrissey next to her bed.

One of Mr. Morrissey’s lawyers, Michael S. Ross, said in an e-mail message yesterday, “A handful of Mr. Morrissey’s close friends, including some he had known literally for decades, showed their appreciation and deep feelings by making gifts to him in their estates.

“While these gifts upset some who would receive less money, Mr. Morrissey’s friends were fully entitled to express their feelings for him in this way,” Mr. Ross said.

Before he was indicted in the Astor case, Mr. Morrissey’s most serious problem as a lawyer stemmed from work he had done in the field of admiralty law. In 1995, he was issued a two-year suspension by the Appellate Division of the State Supreme Court linked to his representation of a Spanish company, Mar Oil, in a dispute it was having with an insurer over the loss of one of its supertankers.

Mr. Morrissey, who was in disagreement with Mar Oil over his fee, was found to have wrongfully taken $925,675 out of an escrow account belonging to the firm to compensate himself, and to have deceived a top company executive into signing a letter that approved the payment, according to court documents.

Stephen Gillers, a professor of legal ethics at New York University School of Law, has included the case in his curriculum.

“I teach the case because it is a good illustration of how not to treat your clients, and it is factually dramatic in showing how Morrissey’s conduct violated his duty to Mar Oil,” Mr. Gillers said.

In November 1996, Mr. Morrissey submitted his resignation from the State Bar of California with charges pending against him, according to records. A spokeswoman for the bar said that the charges remain confidential.

Mr. Morrissey is the son of a Boston judge who was nominated for a position on the federal bench in the mid-1960s. But the nomination, which was being pushed by Senator Edward M. Kennedy, was pulled back after questions were raised about the elder Mr. Morrissey’s qualifications and character.

The younger Mr. Morrissey, who received his law degree from the University of California, was admitted to practice law in New York on Oct. 15, 1973, according to court records.

Later that decade, he met Mrs. Astor. After 2000, Mr. Morrissey developed a closer relationship with her and started advising her on estate planning.

He was invited to her birthday celebrations. He dined with her at the Knickerbocker Club and accompanied her to museum events and the theater. He took her to the opening of “Long Day’s Journey Into Night” on May 6, 2003, in which Mr. Marshall and his wife, Charlene, had made an investment, according to a copy of Mrs. Astor’s schedule.

Mr. Morrissey would drop Mrs. Astor notes about the goings-on of New York society and send her flowers and books, like “The Diaries of Beatrice Webb,” correspondence from her to Mr. Morrissey showed.

Mr. Morrissey has also been an investor in and board member of Mr. Marshall’s theater production company, Delphi Productions, which received hundreds of thousands of dollars of Mrs. Astor’s money.

During this period and in earlier years, Mr. Morrissey was being accused of exploitation.

On March 3, 2002, Sam Schurr, an economist who would die the next day at 83, apparently signed an amendment to a family trust that gave Mr. Morrissey his East 57th Street apartment and a drawing by Diego Rivera.

In court papers challenging the document, a relative of Mr. Schurr’s said it “was the product of fraud and undue influence exerted on the decedent” by Mr. Morrissey and others.

Mr. Schurr was “incompetent” on the day of the signing, according to the court filing, which also said that he had suffered a stroke in May 2000 and that his health “deteriorated progressively.” The matter was subject to a confidential settlement in 2005.

“He’s a ‘walker,’ as we say in the trade: someone who befriends elderly people, mostly women, with the idea of getting on their good side and getting into their wills,” said J. Hayes Kavanagh, a lawyer who represented several clients in a similar case against Mr. Morrissey.

In that matter, beneficiaries and a public administrator appointed by a surrogate’s court alleged that Mr. Morrissey had exploited a woman during a revision of her will on July 17, 1997.

The woman, Elisabeth von Knapitsch, a widow who lived on Park Avenue, died on Jan. 15, 2000, at 91 with an estate worth about $15 million. In her will, Mr. Morrissey, who had known her since the early 1970s, received Ms. von Knapitsch’s apartment, the furniture, four oil paintings — including two by Renoir — as well as $300,000 and whatever was left of her estate after other bequests had been made.

But in court filings, five beneficiaries to her fortune said that Ms. von Knapitsch “was not of sound mind or memory” and was not capable of making a will. They accused Mr. Morrissey and others of subjecting her to “duress and undue influence.” Under a settlement agreement, Mr. Morrissey received a significant portion of the money designated for him in the will.

A month before Jose Juarez Garza died in May 1987 at the age of 56, the will he made in 1976 was amended, appointing Mr. Morrissey as both co-executor and lawyer for his estate. But Mr. Garza, who was in the hospital at the time, was so ill that he apparently signed the amendment with an X, which was accompanied by the words “His Mark,” written by Peter J. Kelley, a lawyer who signed the document as a witness.

Mr. Morrissey supervised the signing of the amendment. “Mr. Garza was in extremis and could not move his hand very easily. He was very weak,” Mr. Kelley said in an interview. “So we had him just make a mark. But from what I could tell, he knew what he was doing.”

Mr. Kelley said he had worked with Mr. Morrissey on a number of wills and amendments, known as codicils, for various clients. He said that Mr. Morrissey would contact him and “give me the parameters” and ask him to draft a will or a codicil.

As for Mr. Morrissey becoming a beneficiary in a number of wills, Mr. Kelley said that Mr. Morrissey “is connected in the social set.” He added, “ In my experience, he seldom sent out a bill, and people reciprocated. And he is extremely good at caring for elderly people, but it could be interpreted in different ways by different people.”

“He seemed dedicated to seeing that these people maintained their quality of life to the utmost,” Mr. Kelley said. “He would often take them to lunch every week, or see to it they would go to the occasional show or museum tour.”

Another lawyer who Mr. Morrissey has often collaborated with on estate matters is Warren Forsythe, according to court records. This relationship was highlighted in another case in which Mr. Morrisey was accused of untoward influence in being designated in an amendment to receive one-third of a trust of Louise Page Morris, who died in October 2002 at age 98.

In a petition to set aside the amendment, two relatives of Ms. Morris asserted that the two lawyers had unduly influenced “clients of advanced age and fragile condition to sign wills and trust agreements that provided for gifts to” Mr. Morrissey and “for the appointments” of Mr. Morrissey and Mr. Forsythe “as paid fiduciaries of the wills and trusts.”
8 2007-12-01 SANTA , Calif., Nov. 30 (AP) — A former executive at the chip maker Broadcom is expected to plead guilty to obstruction of justice in a federal investigation of the company’s stock option grants, the United States attorney’s office said Friday.

The former vice president for human resources, Nancy Tullos, 56, was charged with instructing a subordinate to delete an e-mail message that contained evidence of stock option backdating by Broadcom senior executives and board members.

The plea agreement and details about the charge were filed Friday in Federal District Court.

Ms. Tullos was scheduled for arraignment on Monday. She could be sentenced to up to 10 years in federal prison.

A call to her lawyer, Ismail Ramsey, was not immediately returned.
9 2007-12-01 By the end of the season, the Islanders hope to have at least one of their games telecast in China.

China is widely regarded by North American professional sports leagues as a colossal untapped market of fans. Earlier this month, an estimated 100 million to 200 million fans in China watched an N.B.A. game that included two Chinese stars, with Yao Ming of the Houston Rockets facing the rookie Yi Jianlian of the Milwaukee Bucks.

“It’s a great opportunity for the Islanders to take a leadership position in extending the game,” Chris Dey, the Islanders’ senior vice president for sales, marketing and operations, said.

The Islanders do not have a Chinese player, but they are owned by Charles B. Wang, who was born in Shanghai in 1944 and arrived in the United States when he was 8. The broadcasting venture is only part of Wang’s efforts to deliver hockey to China.

“I care very, very deeply about China and I visit regularly,” Wang said. “With the Islanders, we have the resources, the contacts, and, most important, the passion and dedication, to make an impact.”

Three years ago, Wang launched Youth Hockey Project Hope, in Harbin and Qiqihar, cities in Heilongjiang Province. Eight rinks have been built on school campuses, with eight more under construction, Dey said. The Islanders have an office in Harbin.

“While not a traditional hockey market, it’s great that someone with the relationships and expertise that Charles has is trying to create some preliminary interest,” N.H.L. Commissioner Gary Bettman said.

The idea of telecasting hockey games to China seemed to dovetail with Wang’s Hope project, but the Islanders first needed to hire veteran broadcasters who spoke Mandarin and knew a little something about hockey.

Dey was able to find Peng, who is a broadcaster for a Chinese network in New York, through Wang’s wife, Nancy. Peng suggested Chang as an analyst. Both have broadcast N.B.A. games for ESPN International.

Calling a hockey game efficiently has been somewhat challenging — try to explain icing or a power play in English — but Peng and Chang say they have made progress.

“There are no guidelines,” Peng said. “We’re trying to set a professional standard.”

They have found that the simplest things can require more effort. The Bruins become the “brown bears,” but Peng said that for the Montreal Canadiens, he would need to provide a short description of the French-Canadian heritage.

Pronunciations of some players’ names can also be tricky. Sometimes, Peng and Chang have rehearsed the pronunciation of a player’s name for up to an hour, simply to make it flow in Mandarin.

“It’s easy for me to watch the games,” Chang said, “but it’s difficult, at the beginning, to talk about it. But we will get used to it.”

Josh Bernstein, the team’s vice president for communication, is the producer of the telecasts. Under normal circumstances, he said, he would listen to Peng and Chang on a headset and offer suggestions during the game.

But Bernstein does not understand Mandarin, so during the two dress rehearsals, he sat next to them. He reviewed their work between periods, and, just as important, answered their hockey questions.

“I can observe them, but I don’t know what they’re saying,” Bernstein said. “My only recourse for reacting is asking them how they did.”

Peng says he uses the Mandarin word for “score” instead of goal. And he has learned to deliver it with gusto.

“You not only need interest,” Peng said, “you need passion.”
10 2007-12-01 I marched back to the bedroom, seething, and announced that I was embarking on an urgent executive pursuit. At age 4, Steffi was too old to be soiling the living room floor. At age 56, I was too old to keep cleaning up after her. “I’m going to find a qualified dog trainer who can housebreak her,” I said.

“Can they make her stop being a Licker Monster, too?” Harrison asked.

“Steffi’s hopeless,” Alison sighed. “You can’t teach an old dog new tricks.”

Undaunted, I contacted Steffi’s veterinarian. He recommended two dog trainers. One was a man with a reputation for being rather strict. The other was a woman known for being exceptionally gentle. Harrison suggested that we audition both. So I booked Mr. Strict and Ms. Gentle for separate days the following weekend.

In the meantime, I immersed myself in doggie due diligence. The 2007-8 National Pet Owners Survey by the American Pet Products Manufacturers Association estimates that there are 44.8 million dogs in the United States, or roughly one for every 6.8 humans. All told, the owners of dogs, cats and other household pets spend over $38 billion annually on food, veterinary care, supplies, boarding and grooming.

There are three main types of canine behavior professionals, according to the Web site of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. A handful of board-certified “veterinary behaviorists” conduct medical tests to rule out physical sources of problem behaviors and prescribe drug therapies if needed. There are several dozen board-certified “applied animal behaviorists” who specialize in solving phobias and aggression.

And then there are the countless numbers of people who engage in “dog training,” which remains an unlicensed profession in most states. In 2001, the Association of Pet Dog Trainers, which claims 5,000 members worldwide, helped form a certification council. Applicants can acquire a Certified Professional Dog Trainer credential by passing an exam covering topics ranging from canine educational theory to training equipment.

The dog trainer we called Mr. Strict proved to be pretty gentle. Although he was not board-certified, Mr. Strict said he had over 25 years of experience, including 15 years as a consultant for the Animal Rescue Fund. His main training tools were some semi-moist doggy treats and a leash. His fee was $125 per hour plus New York State sales tax.

Mr. Strict taught Steffi to obey a series of basic “sit,” “sit-stay,” and “down-stay” commands in less than half an hour. He began each training exercise by calling out Steffi’s name, and then accompanied his verbal command with a specific hand signal. When Steffi obeyed, he rewarded her with a treat, a pat on the back and approving words. When she failed to obey, he told her “Steffi, no,” withheld the treat, and then started the exercise over again.

Mr. Strict’s recommendation for solving Steffi’s housebreaking problem was much more onerous — on us. He said we had to make Steffi sleep in her crate at night with the door closed instead of on the bed. (“Dogs don’t like to soil where they sleep,” he noted.) He also wrote out a detailed schedule that called for us to feed Steffi twice a day and take her out for walks three times a day at exactly the same times.

“Hiring a dog trainer won’t solve your problems,” Mr. Strict said. “This process is 70 percent owner and 30 percent dog. You have to make a commitment to doing the exercises for at least a month to see lasting results.”

Although Ms. Gentle lived up to her nickname, she was no pushover. After a 30-year career as a flight attendant, she had graduated from Animal Behavior College in Northridge, Calif., and passed the exam to become a Certified Professional Dog Trainer. Her fee was $60 an hour. She used what she called “high value treats” like beef and lamb tidbits for positive reinforcement “reward markers” in teaching basic commands. She said we could make Steffi stop her excessive licking by reacting with a “no reward marker” that consisted of turning our faces away and saying “Ugh-ugh!”

Ms. Gentle’s housebreaking prescription was conscientiously canine friendly. While she also insisted that we consign Steffi to sleep in her crate at night, she encouraged us to make the crate “den-like” by stuffing it with favorite toys and by partly covering it with a sheet before we turned out the lights. But she was even tougher on us than Mr. Strict. In addition to taking Steffi out for extra walks, we were supposed to keep a log of her eating, drinking, defecating and urinating.

“Adults learn much faster than puppies,” Ms. Gentle insisted. “So you can almost always teach an old dog new tricks if you commit yourself to taking the time.”

To my chagrin, the family voted to shelve the housebreaking issue. Harrison claimed he did not prefer Ms. Gentle over Mr. Strict or vice versa. Alison claimed that her work schedule and Harrison’s school schedule weren’t compatible with the recommended walking and feeding schedules for Steffi.

The next day, I made a desperate telephone call to Dr. Stephen Zawistowski, a behavioral geneticist who is executive vice president and science administrator of the A.S.P.C.A. He proved to be equally adept at analyzing human and canine behavior. According to Dr. Zawistowski, the real villain in our housebreaking drama was not Steffi, my wife, my child or me, but the relentless scheduling demands modern life puts on all concerned.

“Back in the 1950s, there were no housebreaking problems,” he noted. “Most families were like the Cleavers in ‘Leave It to Beaver.’ While Ward was off at work and Wally and Beaver were in school, June was always at home to let the dog out. The challenge of modern life is to come up with a schedule that makes sense to a dog when we’re living a schedule that doesn’t make sense to us. The whole family has to be involved, but one person has to be the lead dog.”

At last, I could read the markings on the floor, so to speak. I thanked Dr. Zawistowski for his insights, hung up the phone, and made a quick trip to the mall. At the pet store, I bought some new toys and high-value treats to help Steffi through her housebreaking schedule. Then I bought an even higher value treat for the new lead dog in the family at a store with a tricolor neon sign that read “Liquor.”
11 2007-12-01 Morrissey, below, the former lead singer of the Smiths, is suing the music magazine NME for defamation after it ran a cover this week with the headline “Bigmouth Strikes Again” and a quote attributed to the singer: “The gates of England are flooded. The country’s been thrown away.” The magazine quoted Morrissey as saying that an immigration rate higher than that of other European countries had caused Britain to lose its identity, Reuters and the BBC reported. The singer said the interview was distorted and demanded an apology but did not get one, his representatives said, leading them to release a statement saying, “Our lawyers are therefore in the process of issuing legal proceedings for defamation against the NME and its editor, Conor McNicholas.”
12 2007-12-01 Relentless sprawl, invasive species and global warming are threatening an increasing number of bird species in the United States, pushing a quarter of them — including dozens in New York and New Jersey — toward extinction, according to a new study by the National Audubon Society and the American Bird Conservancy.

The study, called WatchList 2007, categorized 178 species in the United States as being threatened, an increase of about 10 percent from 2002, when Audubon’s last study was conducted. Of the 178 species on the list, about 45 spend at least part of the year in this region.

Among the most threatened is the rare Bicknell’s thrush, a native of the Catskill and Adirondack highlands whose winter habitat in the Caribbean is disappearing. Although less at risk, the wood thrush — whose distinctive song was once emblematic of the Northeast’s rugged woodlands — is on the list because a combination of acid rain and sprawl has damaged its habitat and caused its numbers to decline precipitously over the last four decades.

The Audubon list, which was released Wednesday, overlaps the federal government’s official endangered species list in some cases. But it also includes a number of bird species that are not recognized as endangered by the federal government but that biologists fear are in danger of becoming extinct.

“We’re concerned that there’s been almost a moratorium on the listing of endangered birds over the last seven years under this administration,” Greg Butcher, Audubon’s bird conservation director and a co-author of the new study, said in a telephone interview. Placing a threatened bird on the new watch list can bring it the kind of attention it needs to survive even if the federal government does not act, he said.

“When we pay attention to these birds and do the things we know need to be done, these birds recover,” Mr. Butcher said. “All these birds have a chance to rebound if we put the right actions in motion.”
13 2007-12-01 Q. In your career, what are the two or three most impressive changes that you’ve seen?

A. The technological advances that we’ve had in surgery are amazing. The second thing, I would say is the efforts to improve the quality and safety of surgery. We’re ahead of a lot of other countries.

Q. Is there any one operation where you say, wow, 40 years ago I would never have guessed that we could do this?

A. I think everything we do in transplantation. What we can do in transplant is unbelievable. I’d say transplantation in a generic sense — liver, kidney, pancreas. Also in orthopedics. We’ve moved from the hip to the knee to the shoulder.

Q. I’m told I need an operation. What kind of research should I be doing, or should I be doing any research?

A. We want patients to participate. When the problem is identified, they get referred to a doctor, to a surgeon. When they see the surgeon, they should be prepared to ask questions — not softball questions, but hardball questions.

How often do you do this? What are your outcomes? What are the risks? How do you plan to do this operation? Is this a safe outpatient facility? And if the surgeon is unable to answer questions to your satisfaction, then you need to go back to your physician and ask for a referral to other surgeons. It’s no longer acceptable to do this blindly, on blind faith.

Q. But on some level you want to put yourself in your surgeon’s hands?

A. Eventually you want to get to that. But in my 35 years, I was asked a lot of tough questions by patients, and I really welcomed that. How many of these do you do? What are your outcomes?

I think most surgeons embrace it. They want an inquisitive and informed patient. Most of us believe that patients who are informed and really know what they’re getting into do better. They know what the goal is of surgery and they know they have to participate post-operatively to get the result.

Q. Is it different for you now that you’ve been through a couple of operations — do you have a different perspective?

A. My experience has just further emboldened me in the concept of participating.

Q. Are you happy that your daughter is becoming a surgeon?

A. She’s making her mind up. She hasn’t signed on the bottom line. But her inclination is, she likes to do things with her hands.

I had a great career as a surgeon — I loved it — and what you can do for patients is remarkable. You meet somebody on a Monday. You take them to the operating room. And you can restore function and add years to their life. It’s really quite remarkable.

Some people say that doctors don’t get respect anymore. Of course we do. But you have to earn it. Today we’re much more open. Health care is going to become very transparent — it’s going to become transparent on quality issues and on the pricing.

Q. Is there a shortage of surgeons in rural America?

A. There is. There’s something like 5,000 hospitals in America, and some of them are very small hospitals. Some programs now are beginning a rotation where they send their residents out to a rural hospital. They expose their patients to the joys and challenges of being a rural surgeon. They do great work, and they have a very broad portfolio, whereas in the city it’s very specialized.

A. A lot of the older surgeons are pretty discouraged about stuff. There’s no doubt that we’re having to be more accountable today. The days of yesteryear — there wasn’t a lot of accountability — and today there is. This is not a sovereign profession anymore. We have to be accountable for our actions. I try to be very open-minded about where things are going.
14 2007-12-01 I was interested to read that Leawood, Kan., a suburb of Kansas City, is the home of Shabbat in the Hood (“Challenging Tradition, Young Jews Worship on Their Terms,” news article, Nov. 28).

When I was growing up in another Kansas City suburb in the 1950s and early 1960s, my Jewish family was not welcome to live in Leawood. With very few exceptions, this no-Jews exclusion was ably enforced, without much fuss, by the developer and real estate agents who sold homes there.

This approach reflected the kind of delicate, white-glove “I’m sure you can understand” anti-Semitism that was so prevalent in the heart of the Midwest at that time and that determined what clubs and sororities I could belong to — vital matters to an unsophisticated adolescent.

When I moved to New York City in my 20s, I was happy to find that I didn’t need to play down my Jewishness and that to the extent I ever encountered anti-Semitism, it was of the much easier to deal with, in-your-face variety.
15 2007-12-01 In January 2000, an odd little dispute spilled into sight. Hillary Rodham Clinton and her husband had just bought a house in Westchester so she could run for the United States Senate. During the campaign, she was protected by Secret Service agents, just as all members of a president’s immediate family would be, whatever their pursuits. And of course, the Senate campaign often brought Mrs. Clinton to New York City.

Within the five boroughs, the Police Department’s intelligence division has long escorted and driven local officials of high rank, as well as visiting dignitaries, often in conjunction with federal agents.

That January, however, Mrs. Clinton’s handlers informed the Police Department that they did not want police cars as part of her security entourage. The stated reason was that she wanted to keep a lower profile. The commander of the police intelligence division said this was a dangerous approach, The New York Post reported, and she was mocked by the man who seemed all but certain to be her Republican opponent in the Senate race: Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.

Whether or not Mrs. Clinton feared that Mr. Giuliani could track her movements, he certainly had the means to do so. He had the tightest grip on the police bureaucracy of any mayor in modern times.

In the city and state, the executive branch controls the cars and the helicopters. Yes, they are meant and used for serious business. But they are also the toys of people in power. The ability to provide executive transportation and protection is not just the power to dole out favors to friends and rivals; it is also the power to know what they are up to. It is knowledge, coin of the political realm.
16 2007-12-01 A BID TO EASE CREDIT IN EUROPE  The European Central Bank said  that it would extend a lending deadline in December to help the banking system through a period of unusually tight credit at the end of the year. The action represents a renewed effor...
17 2007-12-01 LABOUISSE--Eve Curie . A Memorial Service will be held on Thursday, 6 December 2007, 4:00 pm. UNICEF House, 3 UN Plaza, 44th St. between 1st & 2nd Ave. New York City....
18 2007-12-02 A clash between the imperatives of religion and the rule of law....
19 2007-12-02 The Union-Leader, New Hampshire's conservative standard bearer newspaper, wrote in its front-page editorial endorsement of John McCain on Sunday: "Simply put, McCain can be trusted to make informed decisions based on the best interests of his coun...
20 2007-12-02 “It’s been a long road; I couldn’t be happier for those guys, because they’ve been through it all together,” said Patrick McEnroe, the United States captain.

Two singles matches remain to be played Sunday, but in Cup parlance, they will now be “dead rubbers,” although the night before those meaningless matches could be quite lively, judging from the Americans’ boisterous mood in victory.

“I think the U.S.T.A. is buying the Champagne,” said Roddick, who was soon spraying plenty of libations at his peer group, whose names will now be inscribed on one of the oldest trophies in sport: the 107-year-old Davis Cup.

Over the decades, the United States has won the Cup 32 times, more than any other nation, with stars like Bill Tilden, Jack Kramer, John McEnroe and Pete Sampras leading the way.

But Americans no longer dominate the men’s game; this year, no American man reached a Grand Slam singles final.

But, collectively, this team still managed to end an American drought, winning the Cup for the first time since Sampras led the United States to a much-nervier victory in 1995 in Moscow.

“It’s definitely on a par with anything I’ve accomplished in tennis,” said Roddick, whose Davis Cup debut in 2001 coincided with McEnroe’s debut as the captain.

The quick indoor carpet helped, and Roddick set the tone Friday with a convincing display of power tennis to beat Dmitry Tursunov in straight sets. That victory took some of the heat off the more vulnerable Blake, who managed to swing through the nerves that often have floored him in significant matches and defeat Mikhail Youzhny.

With a comfortable 2-0 lead and the Bryans on deck, the mood in the American camp was optimistic Saturday, although the Bryans were hardly at peace. Mike Bryan said he had to resort to sleeping pills to get his rest throughout the week, and Bob had his own problems. “I had a circus of monkeys in my stomach just playing tambourine in there,” he said of his nerves.

When Patrick McEnroe was named captain after his brother John resigned in frustration after only one season, he was hesitant to pick the Bryans for fear that he would have no reserve singles player in case of injury. But by 2003, after they had won the French Open, McEnroe was convinced that their blend of skill, intuitive understanding and enthusiasm were a perfect fit for his Cup team. They have rewarded his confidence by winning 13 of their 14 matches.

“They’ve gotten so much better as a team,” McEnroe said. “Mike’s serve has gotten better. Bob’s return has gotten better. They make great choices. They move and cover every angle, and I have to tell you, these guys leave nothing to chance. They plan everything and prepare for every scenario, for every possible opponent.”

There were certainly no shortage of possibilities Saturday, but the Russian captain Shamil Tarpishchev elected to stick with the doubles team he had announced at the draw ceremony: Andreev and Davydenko, neither of whom had played singles, but who had won their only other Davis Cup doubles match together.

They adopted an unconventional style, rarely rushing the net after their serves and both staying back in most of their return games, too. For a set, it worked surprisingly well, with Andreev mixing huge shots and angled volleys, as he carried Davydenko, who was struggling to solve Bob Bryan’s left-handed slice serve.

But the Bryans’ superior court position, consistent returning and superior net play wore down the Russians. Andreev committed a double fault to lose the tie breaker, and Davydenko dropped his serve in the opening game of the second set. He would lose it twice more, struggling to adjust to the pace of play.

“They are just much better doubles players,” Andreev said of the Bryans.

If anybody can understand the depth of their excellence, it is Tom Gullikson, the captain of the 1995 United States Davis Cup team, who once achieved consistent success in doubles with his identical twin, Tim.

On Saturday, Gullikson was sitting three rows back from the court. “The Bryan twins, like the Gully twins, couldn’t choose their partner; genetics chose it for them,” he said. “And it’s worked out well for American tennis. I’m very, very happy not to be the last American captain to win the Davis Cup.”

Shortly after match point, the Bryans were met in a hurry by Roddick and Blake, along with Robby Ginepri and Mardy Fish, two former members of the American team who served here as practice partners.

The six friends were soon locked in a group embrace and bouncing with delight as the Russians, Davis Cup champions no longer, trudged toward Tarpishchev with their heads bowed.
21 2007-12-02 LINDEN, N.J., Dec. 1 — Two workers were found dead Saturday afternoon in an empty 20,000-gallon chemical vat at an industrial dry cleaning plant here, the Linden police said.

The men, whose names were being withheld Saturday night, apparently suffocated from inhaling chemicals, said Sgt. Matthew Marcino of the Linden police. The Union County medical examiner is scheduled to perform autopsies on Sunday.

Late Saturday night, two concerned employees of the company, North East Linen, came to the plant to try to learn the identities of the victims. One of the employees said she had not been able to reach her boyfriend, who also worked there.

The men had been cleaning the tank, which is 9 feet tall and 8 feet in diameter, since Saturday morning, the police said. The tank is used to dilute chemicals before they are poured into the sewer system, the police said.

A supervisor with the company, at 2400 East Linden Avenue, checked on the men around 2 p.m., the police said. The supervisor saw one of the men lying in the tank, unresponsive, the police said. The supervisor began to climb into the tank, but the fumes were so strong that he came out and called 911, the police said.
22 2007-12-02 WICHITA, Kan., Dec. 1 (AP) — The police on Saturday identified a body found earlier in the week as that of a missing Butler Community College student.

The identification of the body of Emily Sander was confirmed by a forensic orthodontist, said Chief Tom Boren of the El Dorado Police Department.

The body was released to Ms. Sander’s family after forensic examinations and an autopsy. The results of that examination and the cause of death were sealed by the county attorney’s office.

The police also said Saturday that they were re-interviewing witnesses, family and associates of a suspect, Israel Mireles, 24, and his pregnant 16-year-old girlfriend. They said that his whereabouts were unknown, but that they believed she was with him.

Ms. Sander, 18, disappeared Nov. 23 after leaving a bar with Mr. Mireles outside El Dorado.

The body was discovered Thursday about 50 miles east of El Dorado.
23 2007-12-02 But he quickly moved on to make the case that the candidate’s sex is not, and should not, be the deciding factor. Women, he said, “can look at a whole series of issues and know, ‘You know what? This guy’s going to fight for us, partly due to biography.’ Because I know what it’s like to be raised by a single mom who’s trying to work and go to school and raise two kids at the same time, doesn’t have any support from the father. These are issues I’m passionate about.”

Moreover, he argued, his leadership offers the best prospects for delivering on that agenda.

The gender factor is rarely addressed head-on by Mrs. Clinton’s rivals.

Elizabeth Edwards, wife of former Senator John Edwards, was a notable exception when she told Salon.com last summer that Mrs. Clinton was “just not as vocal a woman’s advocate as I want to see” and relied too much on her sex as a rationale for her candidacy. But in less-noticed, more subtle ways, rival campaigns are advancing the argument that it is acceptable for a woman, even a feminist, to back someone other than the woman.

Kate Michelman, a senior adviser to the Edwards campaign and a longtime abortion rights leader, said she told women that Mrs. Clinton’s candidacy was historic and exciting, and that “we have spent a long time and traveled a long road to get to this point.” But she added, “That doesn’t bring us to the place where gender becomes the only thing or even the most important factor determining our decision.”

With just four weeks before the Iowa caucuses, in an intensely competitive battle against Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Edwards, the Obama campaign is ratcheting up its women’s effort. It is, in some ways, a strategic counterpoint to Mrs. Clinton’s wooing of black voters, a group that can be so important in some primaries and in the general election that she cannot afford to cede it to Mr. Obama just because he is black.

This week the Obama campaign held a wave of house parties focused on women in early voting states; Mrs. Obama bluntly told 700 women activists linked by conference call Wednesday night, “We need you guys.” The campaign also announced that Oprah Winfrey, cultural arbiter for millions of women, will join the cause in Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina next weekend. Mr. Obama, in the interview, described Ms. Winfrey as a “great friend” who could spur interest in the campaign, but added, “I’m not somebody who believes that her endorsement, or anybody’s endorsement, actually secures me votes.”

Some of the women supporting Mr. Obama — politically active Democrats, women who pay attention to the glass ceiling in politics — admitted that they had to overcome a few pangs to close the deal. “As a strong feminist most of my life, the question always is, How can you not support the woman candidate?” said Jean Lloyd-Jones, a longtime Democratic activist in Iowa. “And I frankly have been torn by that.”

In the end, Ms. Lloyd-Jones said she finally decided that Mr. Obama was the more progressive candidate, and her progressive instincts trumped her feminist instincts.

Monica Fischer, a consultant to nonprofit groups in Iowa, described overcoming similar conflicts before endorsing Mr. Obama. Ms. Fischer added that on the weekend of the Jefferson-Jackson dinner in Iowa, “We pulled together a group of 30 undecided women to have coffee with Michelle Obama, and you could just feel people going through the same struggle I did, and coming to the point of saying, ‘I feel O.K. about this.’”

Many of these women have also been heavily courted by the Clinton campaign, including State Representative Janet Petersen of Iowa, who received a solicitous phone call from Mrs. Clinton last spring while in labor. (“It was an Iowa moment,” Ms. Petersen said.) Ms. Petersen, who signed on with Mr. Obama in September, said: “I finally went with my heart. I like his leadership style.”

The Obama campaign is, in some ways, subtly marketing its candidate as a postfeminist man, a generation beyond the gender conflicts of the boomers. In the video released this week, Representative Jan Schakowsky, Democrat of Illinois, says that Mr. Obama understands issues of concern to women “in his gut,” not as “a kind of pandering.” The writer Alice Walker describes Mr. Obama as “someone who honors the feminine values of caring for all.”

Obama strategists also highlight his leadership style — his promise of consensus-building and moving beyond the politics of polarization and fear — as especially appealing to women.

“His message is about listening, bringing people together, the skills women appreciate,” said Betsy Myers, the campaign’s chief operating officer.

Kathleen Dolan, a political scientist at the University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, and an expert on women in politics, said Mr. Obama’s “sensitive guy” persona allowed him “to show both a ‘strong’ and a ‘soft’ side, which is a dicier trick for Senator Clinton in the campaign.” Acutely aware of gender stereotypes, Mrs. Clinton has taken pains to highlight her strength and credibility as a potential commander in chief — and, some polls suggest, strikes some voters as excessively calculating.

Mrs. Clinton often alludes to what other women say about the meaning of her candidacy. While her campaign has denied playing the gender card, and she has said that she draws so much heat from her rivals because she is winning, not because she is a woman, she has referred to “the all-boys club of presidential politics” and at times employed language that evokes gender roles.

”I anticipate it’s going to get even hotter — and if you can’t stand the heat, get out of the kitchen,” she said after a particularly contentious debate with her Democratic rivals in late October. “And I’m very much at home in the kitchen.”

Bonnie Campbell, a former Iowa attorney general and Justice Department official, said she took Mrs. Clinton to her church last week and was struck by how many women came up to her saying: “I’m so proud of you. You couldn’t possibly know what it means to see someone like you running.”

For his part, Mr. Obama was careful to highlight his feminist sensitivities in the interview. He raised the recent episode in which a woman asked Senator John McCain, a Republican presidential candidate, “How do we beat the bitch?” and said it was important for all the candidates to “police that kind of behavior and speak out against it.”

But he insisted that it was not really different to run against a woman than against a man.

“I don’t think she wants to be treated differently,” he said, “and I don’t think she has been treated differently than if she were a male candidate in this race.”
24 2007-12-02 A federal official who would not speak for attribution about the new numbers because of the review process said they were indeed higher than the old estimate, but not by as much as The Blade and The Post reported.

It has been clear for at least a year that the old estimate would have to be revised upward, said David R. Holtgrave of Johns Hopkins University, a former director of one of the C.D.C.’s principal AIDS prevention programs.

From 2001 to 2005, more than 186,000 people in 33 states received diagnoses of H.I.V. or AIDS, according to figures. That amounts to more than 37,000 new cases each year from just two-thirds of the country.

“With just a little simple math, you get more than 40,000 new cases,” Dr. Holtgrave said.

Whether the number of infections is higher than previously believed and whether infection rates are rising are both politically charged issues.

President Bush has increased financing for AIDS treatment and prevention programs abroad, but spending for domestic prevention efforts dropped 19 percent in inflation-adjusted terms from 2002 to 2007.

Julie Davids, executive director of the Community H.I.V./AIDS Mobilization Project, a national advocacy group, said it planned to protest Tuesday in front of the C.D.C. headquarters in Atlanta to demand that the agency release the new figures and step up prevention efforts. “We don’t know whether infection rates are rising or they’ve just been higher than we thought,” Ms. Davids said. “But either way, this shows that prevention efforts are insufficient.”

Doctors and states are required to report cases of full-blown AIDS, but only some states report positive results on tests for H.I.V. infection to the agency. It takes years for someone who is infected to develop symptoms; many people have been infected for years before they are tested.

Under the C.D.C.’s new surveillance system, 19 states and cities are performing two different blood tests of H.I.V. antibodies — the first indication of an infection. One test is highly sensitive and is able to spot an infection even in its earliest months. The other test is cruder, and patients must nurse an infection for many months before it can be identified with this test.

When a blood sample receives a positive result on the first test and a negative result on the second, officials have decided that this person was probably infected recently. By adding up these mixed results and projecting them across the country, the agency is able to come up with an estimate for new infections.

The agency sent out a letter to scientists on Nov. 26 describing the new system and urging patience as the numbers are reviewed.
25 2007-12-02 Fitzgerald has lived up to expectations, teaming with Anquan Boldin to form one of the most dynamic receiving tandems in the league. Their styles are vastly different. Fitzgerald will make the spectacular catch; Boldin will knock over defenders after he grabs the ball.

“Q is still the heart and soul of our team,” Fitzgerald said of Boldin. “He’s probably our emotional leader. He’s a phenomenal player, and I feel blessed to play with a guy of his caliber.”

Fitzgerald is far more reserved.

“I’m definitely real low-keyed,” he said. “I would say I have a great relationship with my teammates, but I’m not a guy who hangs out with them too much. I think the guys respect me.”

Fitzgerald is rarely around in the locker room after games, dressing and leaving before the door is opened to reporters. It is a habit that has gotten him into trouble with the N.F.L. He said he had never turned down an interview, but liked to vanish as soon as possible when the games end.

“It doesn’t matter if I have no catches or 30 catches, I like to be in and out,” Fitzgerald said. “I don’t like to make it a big deal.”

His greatest asset, in addition to being 6 feet 3 inches, is his ability to perfectly time his jumps to make catches despite tight coverage.

“I know when to jump,” he said. “When I’m able to reach the apex of my jump is when the ball is coming down.”

Never was that ability more apparent than when he caught Kurt Warner’s desperation 58-yard pass for a touchdown as the first half ended in last Sunday’s overtime loss to San Francisco.

“I’ve never been around a guy that has the ability to control his body, to put his body into position, then couple that with his raw athletic ability and his hands,” Warner said. “You don’t see many guys that size who can control their body like that. I kind of liken it to Randy Moss.”

When his good friend Green was fired after last season, Fitzgerald had to adjust. He calls the Cardinals’ new coach, Ken Whisenhunt, and his staff “high-character guys who have been straight up with me from Day 1.”

“Everything you get, you have to earn, and I like that,” he said.

The coaches worked with Fitzgerald on adding discipline to his route running, working on the details of his position.

He acknowledged that for many years he relied mostly on his natural ability.

“I think he’s made tremendous strides,” Whisenhunt said. “He recognizes he still has a ways to go, but he’s working to get better. To see a player with the accomplishments he’s had continue to work to get better is a tribute to him.”

He was a forerunner among players wearing dreadlocks, but not because of the style.

“I lost my mom in ’03, April 10,” he said. “I was devastated and I still think about her every day.”

He wanted to do something to honor her memory.

“I was thinking about a tattoo, but I didn’t think that would be appropriate,” Fitzgerald said. “I’m not a tattoo kind of guy. So I decided to grow my hair. Every time I look at myself, I see my hair and think about her. That’s my tribute.”

Even with the losing, Fitzgerald loves coming to work every day, he said, and he realizes how privileged he is.

“I’m living my dream,” he said. “I’m doing exactly what I want to be doing. How many people can say that?”
26 2007-12-02 But the amounts vary widely. Wisconsin provides $5,000 a year up to a maximum of $25,000 total. California offers $100 a day. Tennessee provides up to $1 million total.

Twenty-eight states offer nothing — including states with multiple cases of discredited convictions — forcing former inmates to sue in state or federal court. There they have the difficult task of proving bad faith or intentional misconduct by authorities. But when they succeed, as Mr. Gregory did, the payouts can be substantial.

Joshua Marquis, the district attorney in Clatsop County, Ore., has argued that many exonerated prisoners may not be innocent, but have been released because there was not enough evidence to retry them after DNA tests raised questions about their convictions. But in instances where clearly innocent people have been convicted, he said, “they are owed a tremendous amount.”

Some states do not have compensation laws, a result of budget constraints, other priorities, and, in some cases, suspicions that some exonerated prisoners may actually be guilty. This has left many with the courts as their only source of redress.

“Once you open up those floodgates, where do you get all the money to pay for these falsely charged people?” asked state Rep. Thomas R. Caltagirone of Pennsylvania, co-chairman of that state’s House Judiciary Committee, where a compensation bill recently stalled. “How much money is it going to require? How much is a person worth?”

Nine people in Pennsylvania have been freed on the strength of DNA evidence after spending an average of 14 years in prison. But, said Representative Caltagirone, a Democrat, “there is no political will to push it forward.”

In Florida, where six people have been freed, lawmakers have battled for three years over a compensation plan that would exclude those with prior criminal histories.

“I believe the taxpayer would be horribly offended if their money were to be spent compensating an exonerated prisoner who has a history of serious crimes,” said State Representative Ellyn Bogdanoff, a Republican.

Stan V. Smith, a forensic economist and expert on compensation for loss of life, said that in some respects, the wrongly convicted may actually suffer a loss greater than death.

“It’s not just the years they lost and the mental anguish of being incarcerated wrongfully.” Mr. Smith said. “Your earnings are going to be impaired forever, your social interactions are going to be impaired forever. It’s like being thrown into a time warp.”

As the extent of those impairments has become clearer, exonerated prisoners and their advocates now argue that more than compensation is required.

“One of the biggest challenges is that once an innocent person comes out of prison, they are not equipped with the tools to reintegrate into society, and that’s something that money alone can’t solve,” said Representative Donald M. Payne, a New Jersey Democrat who introduced a bill to set aside $1.25 million a year for programs for exonerated prisoners.

Of the states with compensation laws, only three — Massachusetts, Louisiana and Vermont — provide for the costs of medical and psychological care.

Most of the exonerated who get money waited two to three years, forcing them to rely on family, friends, lawyers and even strangers for shelter, clothing, food and emotional support immediately after their release.

Some of those needs persist even for those who have been paid. Despite the millions he received, Mr. Gregory says he still suffers from bouts of paranoia and sometimes breaks down. Mr. Pope’s $385,000 is long gone, spent on rent, clothes and a new car. Last summer, he was unemployed and living with his mother.

In an extensive look this summer and fall at what had happened to 137 exonerated prisoners after their release, The New York Times found about half of them struggling — drifting from job to job, dependent on others for housing or battling deep emotional scars. More than two dozen ended up back in prison or addicted to drugs or alcohol.

“Some people feel, ‘All right, it’s over now. You’re out, you’re free, so what are you complaining about? What’s the problem?’ ” said Darryl Hunt, exonerated in North Carolina after serving 18 years for murder.

“The problem is that we’re free physically,” he said. “But mentally, we’re still living the nightmare every day.”

Mr. Hunt, 42, used some of the $2 million he received to start a program that has offered such services as education, counseling, job training and housing assistance to about 400 ex-convicts, including some exonerated prisoners.

Several similar initiatives have sprouted nationwide, but all have struggled to secure funding; also, they often fail to tap into existing services. California is weighing a plan that would do just that by providing services already made available to paroled prisoners, including educational aid, vocational training and counseling, among others.

In New York, a bill has been drafted that would allow the wrongly convicted to receive services from agencies that already serve other needy populations, such as families on welfare.

“We’re really still learning how to best make these people whole,” said Stephen Saloom, policy director at the Innocence Project, which has helped to exonerate many prisoners. “And the reason it has taken us so long is that we’re really just starting to accept the imperfections of our judicial system and admit that mistakes do happen.”
27 2007-12-02 This would occur, he said, if the value of the assets that banks hold plunges so steeply that they have to consume their own capital to patch up losses. With those funds used to plug holes, banks’ reserves drop further. To keep reserves in accordance with regulatory requirements, banks then have to rein in lending. What all of this means — or so the argument goes — is that losses in subprime and elsewhere that are taken at banks ultimately boomerang back, in a highly multiplied and negative way, onto our economy.

As the narrator in the rock legend “Spill the Wine” says, “This really blew my mind.”

So I started an e-mail correspondence with Dr. Hatzius, pointing out what I believed were a few flaws in his paper. Among them were his hypothesis that home prices would fall an average of 15 percent nationwide (an event that has never happened since the Depression, although we surely could be headed in that direction), and that this would lead to a drastic increase in defaults and losses by lenders.

This, as I see it, is a conclusion that is an estimation based upon a guess. I found especially puzzling the omission of the highly likely truth that the Fed would step in to replenish financial institutions’ liquidity if necessary. In a crisis like that outlined by the good Dr. Hatzius, the Fed — any postwar Fed except perhaps that of a fool — would pump cash into the system to keep lending on track.

I mentioned this via e-mail to Dr. Hatzius. He generously agreed that there was some slight merit to my arguments and that he was merely pointing out tendencies and possibilities (if I understand him correctly).

BUT forecasting is tricky, and I have a hard time believing that financial events to come will be qualitatively different from those that have already happened.

I do want to emphasize Dr. Hatzius’s gentlemanliness and intelligence. But I also want to emphasize that, as I see it, his document was mostly about selling fear. A spokesman for Goldman Sachs categorically denies this point and says that the firm’s economic research is held to the highest levels of objectivity and that its economists’ views are completely independent.

As I interpret it, Dr. Hatzius was saying that the financial system would possibly not be able to adjust to a level of financial losses that are large on an absolute scale but small compared with aggregate credit or the gross domestic product. He is also postulating that lenders would have to retrench so deeply that lending would stall and growth would falter — an event that, again, has not happened on any scale in the postwar world, except when planned by the central bank.

In other words, with the greatest possible respect to Dr. Hatzius, his paper is not really what I would call a serious overview of the situation. It is more a call to be afraid and cautious based on general principles that he embraces and not on the lessons of history. (In this respect, he is much like many economic journalists and commentators who sell newsprint by selling fear. The common cause of journalists and Wall Streeters in this regard is a subject I will address in the future.)

Now, let me make a few small points here and then get to my own big point.

Goldman Sachs is a huge name in terms of moneymaking and prestige. I totally understand the respect it receives for its financial dexterity. The firm is a superstar in that regard, and I, a small stockholder, am grateful. But it has never been clear to me exactly why its people are considered rocket scientists in any other area than making money.

Dr. Hatzius’s paper is a prime example of my puzzlement. It shows extreme intelligence but basically misses the point: yes, there are possible macro dangers, but you have to go all the way around Robin Hood’s barn to get to them, and you have to use what I think are extremely far-fetched hypotheticals to get to a scary situation. (This is not to diminish the real risks in today’s economy, I’m just not as gloomy about them as Dr. Hatzius.)

Why, then, is his document circulating? Perhaps as a token of Dr. Hatzius’s genuine intelligence, which is fine. But to me, his paper seemed like a selling document in the real Wall Street sense of selling — namely, selling short. (Dr. Hatzius notes that he has long been bearish on housing, since faraway 2006, but I respectfully note that that is a lot different from predicting a credit catastrophe. The spokesman for Goldman also noted the company’s bearishness on housing since 2006. He also noted that in the recent past, Goldman Sachs has moved to a considerably larger short posture and that the firm is net short.)

More thoughts came to me as I read a recent piece in Fortune by my colleague Allan Sloan, a veteran financial writer. Mr. Sloan traces the life and death throes of a Goldman Sachs-arranged collateralized mortgage obligation. He shows how truly toxic waste was sold to overly eager investors who now have major charge-offs, and he also points out that some parts of the C.M.O. were indeed safe and were either current or had been paid off.

But what leaps out at me from this story is that Goldman Sachs was injecting dangerous financial products into the world’s commercial bloodstream for years.

My pal, colleague and alter ego, the financial manager Phil DeMuth, culled data from a financial Web site, ABAlert.com (for “asset-backed alert”), that Goldman Sachs was one of the top 10 sellers of C.M.O.’s for the last two and a half years. From the evidence I see, Goldman was doing this for years. It might have sold very roughly $100 billion of the stuff in that period, according to ABAlert. Goldman was doing it on a scale of billions even when Henry M. Paulson Jr., the current Treasury secretary, led the firm.

The Goldman spokesman would not comment on this except to note that other firms sold C.M.O.’s too.

The point to bear in mind, as Mr. Sloan brilliantly makes clear, is that as Goldman was peddling C.M.O.’s, it was also shorting the junk on a titanic scale through index sales — showing, at least to me, how horrible a product it believed it was selling.

The Goldman Sachs spokesman said that the company routinely shorts the securities it underwrites and said that this is disclosed. He noted candidly that Goldman is much more short in this sector than usual.

Here is my humble hypothesis, even after talking to Goldman: Is it possible that Dr. Hatzius’s paper was a device to help along the goal of success at bearish trades in this sector and in the market generally? His firm says his paper, like all of its economists’ work, was not written to support any larger short-trading strategy. But economists, like accountants, are artists. They have a tendency to paint what their patrons, who pay them, want to see.

From what I have observed over the years, Goldman has a fascinating culture. It is sort of like what I imagine the culture of the K.G.B. to be. You always put the firm first. The long-ago scandal of the Goldman Sachs Trading Corporation, which raised hundreds of millions just before the crash of 1929 to create a mutual fund, then used the fund’s money to prop up stocks it owned and underwrote, was a particularly sad example. The fund, of course, went bust.

Now, obviously, Goldman Sachs does many fine deals and has many smart, capable people working for it. But it’s not the Vatican. It exists to make money for the partners and (much farther down the line) the stockholders. The people there are not statesmen. They are salesmen.

To my old eyes, the recent unhappiness about mortgages and Goldman’s connection with them are not examples of sterling conduct. It is bad enough to have been selling this stuff. It is far worse when the sellers were, in effect, simultaneously shorting the stuff they were selling, or making similar bets.

Doesn’t this bear some slight resemblance to Merrill selling tech stocks during the bubble while its analyst Henry Blodget was reportedly telling his friends what garbage they were? How different would it be from selling short the junky stock that your firm is underwriting? And if a top economist at Goldman Sachs was saying housing was in trouble, why did Goldman continue to underwrite junk mortgage issues into the market?

HERE is a query, as we used to say in law school: Should Henry M. Paulson Jr., who formerly ran a firm that engaged in this kind of conduct, be serving as Treasury secretary? Should there not be some inquiry into what the invisible government of Goldman (and the rest of Wall Street) did to create this disaster, which has caught up with some Wall Street firms but not the nimble Goldman?

When the Depression got under way, the government created the Temporary National Economic Committee to study just what had happened on the Street to get the tragedy going. Maybe it’s time for an investigation of just what Wall Street and Goldman did to make money as they pumped this mortgage mess into the economic system, and sometimes were seemingly on both sides of the deal.

Or is Goldman Sachs like “Love Story”? Does working there mean never having to say you’re sorry?
28 2007-12-02 An article last Sunday about international corporate bribery rendered an expression incorrectly. The word meant to signify a bribe, or “grease money,” in German should have been Schmiergeld, not “schmear gelt.”
29 2007-12-02 Some energy experts say American consumers have not even begun to feel the pain at the pump from the rapid rise in crude oil prices.

“Higher gas prices are right around the corner,” said Dan Pickering, an analyst at Tudor, Pickering & Company, an energy stock research firm in Houston. He estimated that gas prices could climb to $3.50 a gallon early next year.

Higher pump prices and home heating bills could put a big strain on American consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of gross domestic product, said David Wyss, the chief economist of Standard & Poor’s.

Mr. Wyss said most retailers would probably lose business. “Consumers tend to trade down” if their wallets are pinched by higher energy prices, he said. Although Wal-Mart might pick up some shoppers who would ordinarily have gone to Macy’s, he said, that probably would not be enough to offset losses in Wal-Mart’s core customer base.

One exception might be some of the luxury stores, Mr. Wyss said, especially those in big cities that can attract foreign tourists eager to exploit the weak dollar. Tiffany might do just fine, even with higher energy costs, he said. “High-end customers are not going to be as hurt by gasoline prices.” But, he added, “they are more likely to stay away if they’re nervous about what’s happening in the stock markets.”

In much of the country, Mr. Wyss said, high gasoline prices next summer would probably hurt the big hotel and restaurant chains. “That would have less impact on McDonald’s, because they are everywhere,” he said, but many family-oriented restaurant chains could lose business if families took fewer road trips.

Automakers might suffer if gasoline prices remained above $3 a gallon, “especially the American manufacturers, because they don’t make enough relatively fuel-efficient cars and trucks,” he said.

Mr. Wyss recently raised his forecast for the average oil price in 2008 from $75 to $85, a level that, he said, would not be as bad for the economy as an average price of $100. Of course it would be even better for consumers if oil fell back to $70 a barrel, roughly its average price this year, he said, “but it would not be a windfall. You just wouldn’t have the negative effects.”

Many experts attribute the recent price spike to a combination of speculation and over-reaction and say crude oil prices could deflate just as rapidly.

Michelle Dathorne, a credit analyst at Standard & Poor’s who specializes in energy companies, said current supply and demand did not support oil at $100 a barrel. Over the last two years, there has been a fairly constant premium of $20 to $25 a barrel built into oil prices because of geopolitical concerns, she said. Until recently, rising prices were responding to demand. But she attributed the recent spike almost entirely to market speculation.

Michael Metz, the chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer & Company, was even more dismissive of traders who, he said, have bid up oil prices. “I think this is a minibubble reflecting hysterical buying by speculators, who are fearful that we will embark on some sort of adventure in Iran and destabilize oil sources in the region,” Mr. Metz said.

He predicted that a major correction in oil prices was imminent. But he said he did not expect this to hurt energy stocks, because $100 oil was not factored into their share prices.

He also said that if crude oil prices fell back too rapidly, the major oil producers would probably cut production. “One quarter of the world’s output is controlled by Saudi Arabia and Russia. If oil fell to $70 a barrel, they would cut,” he said.

WHILE major integrated energy companies like Exxon Mobil and Chevron have prospered in the current environment, Mr. Metz said he preferred the stocks of independent production companies right now.

“They are both an earnings play and an asset play,” he said, because the independents could be takeover targets for the major energy companies.

Mr. Pickering, the energy stock analyst, also liked the independent producers, like Devon Energy and Anadarko Petroleum. He also favors the deep-water drillers, including Transocean and Halliburton, because that is where most of the new oil finds are these days, he said.

But Mr. Pickering said that even energy stocks — the one area of the market that could benefit from higher commodity prices — would be better off if crude oil prices fell back closer to their average for this year, because $100 oil could reduce global demand.

“We think the outlook for the group is better with oil at $70 for three years, versus oil at $100 for three months,” he said.
30 2007-12-02 In “Profiling by the Numbers” (Op-Chart, Nov. 18), Christopher Dunn, Donna Lieberman and Andy Pressman make an important point about racial profiling, but I was impressed by another statistic I saw in their data.

Of the 547,572 total black and white people stopped and frisked from Jan. 1, 2006, to Sept. 30, 2007, by the New York Police Department, 486,395 were never charged with anything. That means 89 percent of these “stop and frisks” were fruitless invasions of privacy.

I wonder how many of the summonses that were issued were for minor violations, and whether they could have been effected without warrantless searches.
31 2007-12-02 The Upper West Side has long been accused of having a scarcity of good restaurants, but these places in the West 70s are not only good but also affordable.

This new wine bar, a conjoined expansion of Arte around the corner, features Italian tapas like marinated white anchovies, a variety of cheeses and roasted vegetables.

The tandoor, the top-loading oven from which a whole subcuisine of Indian food springs, gets as hot as 700 degrees at Earthen Oven. The lamb chops masaledar luxuriate in a bath of yogurt, garlic, ginger, ground cashews and spices for more than a day before they are skewered and plunged into it. Order them medium-rare, and marvel.

Affordable and approachable, Kefi is the sort of restaurant any neighborhood would welcome. Part of the appeal is the range of the classic Greek menu. A conservative customer could start a meal with a brilliantly composed Greek salad; others might be more enticed by expertly crisped sweetbreads, accompanied by wilted spinach and fried shallots.

Nice Matin, named after a daily newspaper in the south of France, gives the neighborhood a splash of Provençal sunshine and a heady introduction to the cuisine of Nice. Current entrees include duck magret with mashed turnips and carrots, date purée and roasted pears; and grilled leg of lamb with French green lentils, roasted Brussels sprouts and creamed onions.

At Seven’s Turkish Grill, the pides — broad slabs of dough — are thick, but not too thick, irregularly shaped, and slathered with meats (cured and otherwise), cheeses or vegetables, and sometimes all three. If you concentrate on the pides only, you will be missing some satisfying and well turned out dishes on the extensive menu at this cheerful restaurant. You could dine exclusively on the savory appetizers, like zucchini pancakes with a deliciously thick yogurt garlic sauce and a bowl of homemade lebni, the yogurt with walnuts, garlic and dill.
32 2007-12-02 Cadillac’s challenge with the new CTS was to create a car that would be fresher and more outrageous than the original, which was the freshest and most outrageous in its class at its introduction. Not an easy brief.

Styling is certainly subjective, but to my eye Cadillac has done a fantastic job with the 2008 edition. The biggest issue for designers of sedans is striking a balance between sex appeal and practicality. A sedan must be useful, and design freedom is constrained by targets for mundane requirements like hip room and trunk volume. That trade-off took its toll on Jaguar’s newest sedan: somewhere between the C-XF concept car and the XF production car, its shape turned a lot more practical and a whole lot less exciting.

In the case of the CTS, it looks as if Cadillac loosened the reins on practicality a bit and let the designers have some fun. A good example is seen in the bold flare of the fenders. If the body itself were wider, the car would have more interior volume, but it would lose the alluring Coke-bottle shape that makes the fenders appear to have been stretched down over the wheels, tight as a swim cap over Ben Stiller’s ears.

I’d like to imagine that sometime early in the CTS’s creation, designers were overheard debating those fenders. As they considered widening the body to gain two inches of shoulder room — but losing the effect of the flares — a cooler head intervened: “Shoulder room is boring! Now make it with the flared fenders or I’ll have both of you testing cup holders in the Arctic Circle!” Surely the design didn’t unfold exactly like that, but whatever the case the CTS has its priorities in the right place.

The rest of the body is no less expressive. The front end, with its scythelike headlights and leering grille, is downright evil-looking. If this new CTS were in a movie, it would definitely be driven by the bad guy. The center brake light doubles as a subtle spoiler atop the trunk lid, a nice touch. The vents on the front fenders are a styling cliché these days, but they’re a minor demerit on an otherwise compelling design (and at least they are functional).

Cadillac also revamped the hardware under the hood, which, by the way, is designed to seal like a door for better noise containment. The base engine is a 263-horsepower 3.6-liter V-6; the same engine, upgraded with a direct-fuel-injection system that raises the output to 304 horsepower, is an option. Each can be ordered with a six-speed manual or a six-speed automatic transmission. All-wheel drive, paired only with the automatic, is available for those who harbor doubts about rear-drive in winter.

I tested a rear-drive CTS with the direct-injection engine, and to me the new V-6 felt a lot like a small V-8, with plenty of torque and a strong pull to the redline. On the track, Automobile magazine measured zero-to-60 acceleration at a brisk 6.6 seconds, yet the E.P.A. fuel economy is still a respectable 17 m.p.g. in town and 26 on the highway.

The interior is also all new, and it addresses the biggest shortcoming of the old CTS — a dashboard that looked as if it had been glued together by a team of rhesus monkeys using slabs of plastic mined from the Fisher-Price quarries.

The 2008 CTS interior reflects two epiphanies at General Motors. First, luxury-car buyers demand luxurious surroundings; and second, just because a car’s sheet metal is angular and defined by sharp creases, it doesn’t mean the interior must repeat that theme. And so the ’08 CTS ditches the flat surfaces and odd angles and instead offers a handsome center stack, recessed L.E.D. lighting and handsewn covers on the dashboard and door panels.

The screen of the optional navigation system rises out of the dash and boots up with an animated Cadillac wreath-and-crest logo flashing across the display, an entertaining bit of eye candy. You can order a 300-watt Bose surround-sound system that includes a 40-gigabyte hard drive, which allows you to copy CDs to the car’s stereo. There’s more: the hard drive also gives you the ability to buffer up to an hour of live radio. If you’re listening to a crucial playoff game and the phone rings, simply hit pause; later you can go back to listening just where you left off, sort of a TiVo for the audio system.

The key fob, however, is an ergonomic faux pas. It is the size of a gorilla’s fist and swings from the ignition like a miniature wrecking ball, intent on pulverizing the driver’s right knee. Perhaps this is Cadillac’s way of suggesting you should spring for keyless ignition, part of a $2,025 option package.The CTS is available in three levels of suspension tuning, and the car I drove was equipped with the high-performance FE3 package, which also gives you 18-inch wheels and bigger brakes. With this setup, the car is a confident handler, its near 50-50 front-to-rear weight distribution affording downright BMW-like poise in the turns. But if I were shopping, I would sample the other suspension options and determine whether the stiffer ride was worth the increase in cornering ability.

I had less confidence in the CTS’s variable-assist power steering, which is unobtrusive on the road but seems confounded by low-speed maneuvers that require a sudden twirl of the wheel. Turning into a parking spot, it suddenly ramped up the effort apropos of nothing. As is the case with BMW’s nonlinear active steering, it is disconcerting when a steering system calls attention to itself.

Speaking of BMW, the CTS has a much-admired BMW model squarely in its cross hairs, but maybe not the one you’d expect. I have always thought of the CTS as a 3 Series competitor, yet when I parked it next to my neighbor’s 330i, the CTS looked like Penn to the BMW’s Teller. A glance at the dimensions reveals that in the important measurements of length, height, width and wheelbase, the CTS is indeed within a half-inch of a BMW sedan, but not the 3 Series. It’s the 5 Series.

That is interesting, because the CTS compares favorably with the 5 Series, but costs a whole vault less money. The rear-drive CTS I drove had a base price of $35,290 with the direct-injection engine and automatic transmission. The car was heavily optioned, with treats that included the $3,300 Performance Collection (high-intensity headlights, 18-inch wheels, a limited-slip differential, leather seats and heated windshield washer fluid, among other things) and the high-end Bose stereo and a navigation system ($3,145). Essentially, it had every major option except for a sunroof and all-wheel drive. The sticker price was $44,465.

Add that level of equipment to a rear-drive 300-horsepower BMW 535i and you’re looking at a window sticker of at least $57,000. Sure, the 5 Series is fantastic to drive, but the Cadillac is better looking and you don’t need to exhume Wernher von Braun to help change the radio station.

Of course, you can pick apart the details all day long, but I think one of the biggest reasons people will like this car — or not — is the way it looks. Certainly the “Hey, check me out!” styling won’t appeal to everyone, but who cares? If you’re looking for anonymity, there are plenty of boring alternatives.

If there’s ever a sequel to “Mr. and Mrs. Smith,” I have a feeling that the next time around nobody is going to confuse a CTS with a Town Car.
33 2007-12-02 Martha Rusk Sutphen and Dr. Richard J. Stock were married on Tuesday in New York. Judge Robert W. Sweet of the United States District Court in New York officiated in the bride’s apartment.

The bride, 77, is keeping her name. She retired as an English teacher from Julia Richman High School in New York. Until 1984 she was the director of a program that coordinated after-school programs and other activities for eight private schools in New York. She graduated from Smith and received a master’s in education from Fordham.

She is a daughter of Gladys Houx Rusk and Dr. Howard A. Rusk, who lived in New York. Her father was a pioneer in rehabilitation medicine, developing techniques to help badly injured servicemen during World War II. He was the founder of the Institute of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation at New York University, which later became the Rusk Institute of Rehabilitation Medicine. Her mother assisted Dr. Rusk in evaluating rehabilitation programs abroad.

The bridegroom, 84, is a retired cardiologist who had a private practice in New York. He was a professor of medicine at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, where he received his medical degree. Earlier in his career he had been the director of the first cardiac intensive care unit at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital. He graduated from Yale.

He is the son of Marie Lergenmiller Stock and Archie F. Stock, who lived in Bronxville, N.Y. His father was the controller of the American Agricultural Chemical Company in New York.

The bride and bridegroom, who were both widowed, had known each other for 35 years. Their families lived near one another both on the Upper East Side and in the Hamptons.
34 2007-12-02 Audiophile gear has always been a niche market — as has classical music in general. But the ascendance of portable, downloadable music is not necessarily at odds with the audiophile ethos, which is a devotion to sonic authenticity with the goal of maximizing the enjoyment of recordings. IPods and similar devices are not limited to the sound quality inherent to the lowly MP3 file. If the user chooses, a higher-resolution format can be opted for when, for example, someone copies a CD he owns onto his iPod. And some classical music organizations that sell their material online know that sound quality matters. For example, the Philadelphia Orchestra Web site has downloads available as MP3 files or in the CD-quality FLAC format. It’s no harder “to be an audiophile in an iPod world” than it is to be a Angela Gheorghiu fan in a Christina Aguilera world.

The writer is a senior writer for The Absolute Sound.

It’s All About the Music

The iPod is no more responsible for “thinning the ranks of audiophiles” over the last decade than cheap fast food is responsible for depleting the ranks of gourmets, or cheap wine is for thinning the ranks of oenophiles.

In fact, quite the opposite is true. Consumers are demanding higher-quality food and seeking out better wine. Why? Because gourmet food and fine wine continue to receive enthusiastic coverage in the mainstream press. Sound quality, however, is ignored or, worse, gets the kind of treatment you’ve chosen to give it — a gleeful dismissal — and audiophiles are looked upon as either odd or deluded.

Mr. Tommasini writes about audio magazines that once were. Well, they still are. In Germany alone there are more than a half-dozen thriving full-color glossies devoted to audio, and at least that many in Italy. Both countries hold audio shows attended by tens of thousands of enthusiasts who are equally excited by high-definition images and high-definition sound. (Incidentally, there are still a few good audio magazines in America too. I write for one of them, Stereophile.)

And by the way, I love my iPod. It’s very easy to be an audiophile in an iPod world; there are many ways for owners to gain access to great music.

Re “Industrial Strength in the Motor City” by Hilarie M. Sheets [Nov. 11]:

I strongly disagree with your interpretations of Diego Rivera’s murals. I grew up with these murals, and I can assure you that even in midcentury, no one in Detroit viewed them as depicting “laborers of all races working in unison for the good of the industry,” much less losing their “ethnic identities to become Americans.”

Rather, they were instantaneously and correctly perceived as profoundly radical social criticism that is both angry and compassionate. They were offensive to many in the community.

When it comes to themes of race, injustice and social dislocation, every artist working today sits at Rivera’s feet.

Re “The Audience as the Arbiter” by Bernard Holland [Nov. 4]:

Mr. Holland expresses “irritation” at the exalted status of the composer in the idealized hierarchy of classical music, and he unfairly portrays today’s actual composers as being delusionally self-regarding and disdainful of the audience.

Let one composer respond: I write music that I intend to be beautiful, and I hope that it will please listeners. My strange idea of beauty may not resonate as widely as Bach’s or Britney Spears’s, but it’s what I have to offer, and it doesn’t mean I hate my audience. All I ask of listeners is an open mind. .

The writer is director of the American Composers Forum.

I have always found Mr. Tommasini to be a sympathetic and perceptive ear. It comes as a surprise, however, to hear him agree with Marin Alsop that “you can’t get a complete picture by listening to someone play for 20 minutes behind a screen.”

Mr. Tommasini has for a number of years been singing the praises of the Met orchestra, an organization noted for the process of selection it uses. There, the screen remains up from beginning to end, and no discussion is allowed. Not only has it resulted in a remarkably cohesive, stylistically homogenous orchestral ensemble, but the chamber performances of the Met Chamber Ensemble are a marvel as well. Winning a job there is one of my proudest achievements. Moreover, the Met orchestra was the first orchestra to hire women in larger numbers.

When placed behind a screen, our musician’s ears allow us to judge all we need to know about musical talent and character, and not be swayed by such artistically irrelevant issues as fame, age, gender, political connections or political philosophy.

The writer is the principal oboist of the Boston Symphony.
35 2007-12-02 Passengers at Kennedy, La Guardia and Newark Liberty International Airports spent 3.9 million more hours waiting for their planes to take off after they left their gates in 2007 compared with a decade earlier, the report said.

That cost passengers $187 million, Mr. Thompson said, citing data that is to be published in The American Economic Review this month. To come up with that figure, the economists assigned values to a range of travelers, from those on vacation to those flying for business.

The logjams and delays have triggered a debate over the best solution among federal regulators, the airlines and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which operates the three airports.

Seeking to reduce the delays, the federal Department of Transportation met with airlines in October and asked them to either reduce or otherwise alter their schedules in the metropolitan area. The department said that if it could not reach agreements with the airlines by the end of the year, it might reimpose landing quotas at Kennedy.

As part of the negotiations, federal officials have also pushed for a congestion pricing system that would charge airlines more to fly during peak hours.

Many airlines and the Port Authority have opposed those measures. But Mr. Thompson said in the report that if conditions did not improve soon, he would favor congestion pricing over the current system, which bases landing fees on an airplane’s weight.

“The situation is urgent,” Mr. Thompson said. “We simply cannot accept another summer of soaring delays like last summer.”

The report said a congestion pricing system could save airlines and passengers a total of $256.8 million a year at Kennedy through lower landing fees, fewer delay-related costs and time saved. It said that $169.3 million could be saved at Newark and $116.3 million at La Guardia.

Mr. Thompson also said the Federal Aviation Administration should make the New York area a priority when new technology, designed to better distribute air traffic, is available. The F.A.A. has already decided that Alaska, the Gulf of Mexico region, Philadelphia and Louisville, Ky., will be the first to get the new technology.

“The right answer is to increase capacity,” said Anthony E. Shorris, executive director of the Port Authority, who has met several times with the F.A.A. on this issue.

But even if improvements to air traffic control are made soon, they may barely keep up with expected growth at the New York area’s airports, the report said, citing forecasts that the number of flights will increase 20.7 percent by 2015.
36 2007-12-02 Randel K. Johnson, a vice president of the United States Chamber of Commerce, said, “I am beefing up my staff, putting more money aside for economic analysis of regulations that I foresee coming out of a possible new Democratic administration.”

At the Transportation Department, trucking companies are trying to get final approval for a rule increasing the maximum number of hours commercial truck drivers can work. And automakers are trying to persuade officials to set new standards for the strength of car roofs — standards far less stringent than what consumer advocates say is needed to protect riders in a rollover.

Business groups generally argue that federal regulations are onerous and needlessly add costs that are passed on to consumers, while their opponents accuse them of trying to whittle down regulations that are vital to safety and quality of life. Documents on file at several agencies show that business groups have stepped up lobbying in recent months, as they try to help the Bush administration finish work on rules that have been hotly debated and, in some cases, litigated for years.

At the Interior Department, coal companies are lobbying for a regulation that would allow them to dump rock and dirt from mountaintop mining operations into nearby streams and valleys. It would be prohibitively expensive to haul away the material, they say, and there are no waste sites in the area. Luke Popovich, a vice president of the National Mining Association, said that a Democratic president was more likely to side with “the greens.”

A coalition of environmental groups has condemned the proposed rule, saying it would accelerate “the destruction of mountains, forests and streams throughout Appalachia.”

A priority for many employers in 2008 is to secure changes in the rules for family and medical leave. Under a 1993 law, people who work for a company with 50 or more employees are generally entitled to 12 weeks of unpaid leave to care for newborn children or sick relatives or to tend to medical problems of their own. The Labor Department has signaled its interest in changes by soliciting public comments.

The National Association of Manufacturers said the law had been widely abused and had caused “a staggering loss of work hours” as employees took unscheduled, intermittent time off for health conditions that could not be verified. The use of such leave time tends to rise sharply before holiday weekends, on the day after Super Bowl Sunday and on the first day of the local hunting season, employers said.

Debra L. Ness, president of the National Partnership for Women and Families, an advocacy group, said she was “very concerned that the Bush administration will issue new rules that cut back on family and medical leave for those who need it.”

That could be done, for example, by narrowing the definition of a “serious health condition” or by establishing stricter requirements for taking intermittent leave for chronic conditions that flare up unexpectedly.

The Chamber of Commerce is seeking such changes. “We want to get this done before the election,” Mr. Johnson said. “The next White House may be less hospitable to our position.”

Indeed, most of the Democratic candidates for president have offered proposals to expand the 1993 law, to provide paid leave and to cover millions of additional workers. Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut was a principal author of the law. Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York says it has been “enormously successful.” And Senator Barack Obama of Illinois says that more generous family leave is an essential part of his plan to “reclaim the American dream.”

Susan E. Dudley, administrator of the White House Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, said, “Research suggests that regulatory activity increases in the final year of an administration, regardless of party.”

Whoever becomes the next president, Democrat or Republican, will find that it is not so easy to make immediate and sweeping changes. The Supreme Court has held that a new president cannot arbitrarily revoke final regulations that already have the force of law. To undo such rules, a new administration must provide a compelling justification and go through a formal rule-making process, which can take months or years.

Within hours of taking office in 2001, Mr. Bush slammed the brakes on scores of regulations issued just before he took office, so his administration could review them. A study in the Wake Forest Law Review found that one-fifth of those “midnight regulations” were amended or repealed by the Bush administration, while four-fifths survived.

Some of the biggest battles now involve rules affecting the quality of air, water and soil.

The National Chicken Council and the U.S. Poultry and Egg Association have petitioned for an exemption from laws and rules that require them to report emissions of ammonia exceeding 100 pounds a day. They argue that “emissions from poultry houses pose little or no risk to public health” because the ammonia disperses quickly in the air.

Perdue Farms, one of the nation’s largest poultry producers, said that it was “essentially impossible to provide an accurate estimate of any ammonia releases,” and that a reporting requirement would place “an undue and useless burden” on farmers.

But environmental groups told the Bush administration that “ammonia emissions from poultry operations pose great risk to public health.” And, they noted, a federal judge in Kentucky has found that farmers discharge ammonia from their barns, into the environment, so it will not sicken or kill the chickens.

On another issue, the Environmental Protection Agency is drafting final rules that would allow utility companies to modify coal-fired power plants and increase their emissions without installing new pollution-control equipment.

The Edison Electric Institute, the lobby for power companies, said the companies needed regulatory relief to meet the growing demand for “safe, reliable and affordable electricity.”

But John D. Walke, director of the clean air program at the Natural Resources Defense Council, said the rules would be “the Bush administration’s parting gift to the utility industry.”

If Democrats gain seats in Congress or win the White House, that could pose problems for all-Republican lobbying firms like Barbour, Griffith & Rogers, whose founders include Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi, a former chairman of the Republican National Committee.

Loren Monroe, chief operating officer of the Barbour firm, said: “If the right person came along, we might hire a Democrat. And it’s quite possible we could team up in an alliance with a Democratic firm.”

Two executive recruiters, Ivan H. Adler of the McCormick Group and Nels B. Olson of Korn/Ferry International, said they had seen a growing demand for Democratic lobbyists. “It’s a bull market for Democrats, especially those who have worked for the Congressional leadership” or a powerful committee, Mr. Adler said.

Few industries have more cause for concern than drug companies, which have been a favorite target of Democrats. Republicans run the Washington offices of most major drug companies, and a former Republican House member, Billy Tauzin, is president of their trade association, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America.

The association has hired three Democrats this year, so its lobbying team is split evenly between Republicans and Democrats.

Loren B. Thompson, a military analyst at the Lexington Institute, a policy research organization, said: “Defense contractors have not only begun to prepare for the next administration. They have begun to shape it. They’ve met with Hillary Clinton and other candidates.”
37 2007-12-02 The clamor from voters has been loud enough that 34 states have done so, to varying degrees, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.

Numerous polls around the country have shown widespread concern about the potential for abuse of eminent domain, “and how profound the costs are for the people who are put through that,” said Dana Berliner, a senior lawyer for the Institute for Justice, a nonprofit libertarian law firm based in Arlington, Va., which represented the New London homeowners in their appeal.

Lawyers in the Branford case found that nearly everyone questioned during jury selection had at least a vague notion of what the Kelo case was about. For most, the lasting impression was that eminent domain “could be a bad thing,” said James W. Bergenn, another lawyer for the developer.

Branford officials have vehemently defended their decision in 2003 to take a 77-acre parcel of land owned by Frank Perrotti Jr. of Hamden and Thomas Santa Barbara Jr. of Branford.

The two men had originally agreed to sell the property to a Monroe-based development company, New England Estates, for $4.75 million if the town approved the company’s plans to build a 268-unit residential development.

But after the town’s planning and zoning commission denied its development application in 2002, New England Estates raised the possibility of an affordable-housing project instead.

Connecticut law makes it much harder for towns to turn down developments in which at least 30 percent of the units meet the state’s definition of affordable.

Town officials began questioning the site’s suitability for housing because of its proximity to a closed landfill.

In May 2003, the Board of Selectmen voted in favor of a proposal to take the property by eminent domain for the purpose of investigating possible environmental contamination and perhaps to develop ball fields there. The town’s legislative body approved the taking three months later.

New England Estates petitioned the New Haven Superior Court for a temporary injunction halting the taking. In December 2003, the judge trial referee, Anthony V. DeMayo, denied the injunction. The next month, the town took ownership of the property, for which it paid Mr. Perrotti and Mr. Santa Barbara $1.1 million.

A vast majority of cases challenging such takings are resolved through injunctions; takings temporarily halted by court injunction are often abandoned. But because Judge DeMayo had granted New England Estates and the landowners the right to seek a claim for damages, this case took a different path: The developer and landowners took it to trial, alleging a violation of their civil rights under the takings clause of the Fifth Amendment and seeking lost profits.

Mr. Hollister, the developer’s lawyer, maintained that town officials had made up reasons to take the land simply to stave off development.

Unlike the City of New London, which exercised its power of eminent domain after a “fair, public and factual” process, Mr. Hollister said, Branford pursued a process “so unfair and distorted as to violate the Constitution.”

The jury agreed, awarding New England Estates $11.2 million in lost profits plus $1.2 million for expenses already incurred on the project. The jurors also awarded $340,000 to the landowners for lost option payments.

Those awards followed a separate decision by Judge William T. Cremins of the Waterbury Superior Court, in another complaint filed by the landowners, that revalued the 77 acres at $4.6 million and ordered the town to pay the additional $3.5 million. Both sides have appealed that decision.

While the Kelo case wasn’t discussed in the courtroom during the six-week trial, it certainly informed the proceedings, Mr. Bergenn said.

At the conclusion of jury selection, “I knew I had nobody who hated developers,” he said. “Without Kelo, it would have been more of an uphill battle.”

The town’s lawyer in the case, Kerry R. Callahan, has filed a motion to set aside the trial verdict based on a variety of issues; a decision was still pending as of last week.

While Mr. Callahan agreed that the jury was well aware of Kelo, he took a much dimmer view of its impact. Jurors were “more wary of and perhaps even hostile to the concept that a government could take private property,” he said.

“By the end of the trial,” he added, “it was clear that the jury was hostile to the whole eminent domain process.”
38 2007-12-02 Late that night, an ambulance headed for the burn unit at Children’s Hospital in Birmingham, 300 miles north. In the front, one worried mother; in the back, a curious-now-terrified boy who had just stumbled upon a meth lab dumpsite.

To cook the white drug that dictates their lives, the haggard, frenzied denizens of the methamphetamine world need assorted materials that go together only in the context of a meth lab: paint thinner and coffee filters, drain cleaner and tubing, fertilizer and cold medicine. And when these amateur chemists are done — that is, if they have not set themselves on fire — they dump their hazardous and potentially explosive waste in the Dumpster of a Piggly Wiggly supermarket, say, or in the woods.

Isaiah spent a week in the hospital having his burned face and lips treated with salve and his damaged eyes flushed with solution, over and over. A blond nurse asked him what her hair color was, and he said brown. Although he could not see well, he could hear people talking about his bluish-white eyes. He worried that he was ugly, and that no one would like him.

Isaiah returned to the trailer park, the local news media converged and all of Pascagoula sighed at the sight of him. Scarring and scabbing on the face, left eye clouded, right eye less so, both eyes asking why me.

One way the community responded was down at the Wal-Mart, where the receiving manager, Patsy Poole, set up a fund-raising booth near Register 1 that displayed photos of Isaiah’s transformed face. More than $2,000 in four hours; more than $5,000 in a few days.

“Twenties!” Ms. Poole says. “They was just throwing in the money.”

Another way was by inundating the Narcotics Task Force of Jackson County, still working out of a poststorm trailer, with tips about dozens of meth labs and dumpsites. Sgt. Curtis Spiers, its commander, said many calls came from local meth users, whose arms and hands often carry telltale burn scars of their own accidents. They hadn’t informed in years, but what happened to this boy was too much.

A couple of people told Chad Heck, the task force’s assistant commander, to check out two young men who hang out in a trailer a few yards from Isaiah’s, including one who had been laughing that it was his stuff that blew up.

The police soon arrested James McCall and Terry Shimp. Both said they were sorry. Asked if he would like to apologize directly to Isaiah, Mr. McCall said, “Hell, yeah.”

Some good things happened because of the bad thing that happened to Isaiah. It reminded anyone who needed to be that there are still FEMA trailer parks two years after Hurricane Katrina, no matter that Mississippi has spent $1.7 billion in federal aid on projects for businesses and the middle class. It scared people into realizing methamphetamine’s potential for collateral damage. It prompted one of the suspects to pass on information that cracked a nine-year-old murder case.

“I really believe it was part of his penance,” Sgt. Spiers says.

As for Isaiah: he endures.

His mother, Monaleissa Polk, said most of the $15,000 in donations went for medical-related bills early on, although Isaiah now has Medicaid. She used the rest of it to move the family out of the FEMA trailer park and into one place, then into another, and, finally, into a house a few miles north of Pascagoula, close behind a truck stop.

She says the anger that Isaiah had before his accident has only intensified since; he recently roughed up a smaller schoolmate and was suspended from the fourth grade for three days. One minute he is surly and distant, and the next he is a loving and lovely and thoroughly boyish boy.

He is also a bit of a medical marvel. The scars on his face have disappeared. Sight in his right eye is restored. And there is only a rim of that milky blueness in his left eye. Doctors who had planned to perform a corneal transplant are waiting to see what more the young boy’s body can do to heal itself.

Isaiah is supposed to wear glasses, but for some reason they keep breaking. He says that’s all right, because he sees everything around him.
39 2007-12-02 Maybe the outcome would have been the same regardless — John spontaneous and volatile and artistically irresistible, and Patrick more circumspect, the patient one, less demanding of perfection but perhaps more devoted to a cause.

In his lucky seventh year as United States Davis Cup captain, a job John campaigned for and walked away from after one calendar go-around, Patrick rolled a pair of bouncy Bryans, Mike and Bob, at the Russians yesterday. Their straight-sets victory ended a 12-year American drought in the Davis Cup.

After the United States took a 3-0 lead in the best-of-five-match final, there were John P. and his wife, Kay, facing each other in their lower-stand seats for a kiss. They go to Paris this week, their 50th wedding anniversary coming, to celebrate the first championship captaincy in the family’s long tennis history.

“Patrick is blessed to be John’s brother, but in tennis, it was never easy for him,” John P. said. “This, winning the Davis Cup as captain, is great because it has nothing to do with John.”

You could also argue that the American tennis community’s fascination with John opened doors for Patrick: first when he followed John, who has a genius for gab, into the television booth, then when he succeeded him as the captain in 2001.

The small band of reporters that followed John during his brief captaincy can never forget his debut in Harare, Zimbabwe, when he coaxed a decisive fifth-match victory out of a jittery journeyman named Chris Woodruff. In the next round, he had Pete Sampras and Andre Agassi for a home-soil victory against the Czech Republic. By the semifinals, Agassi and Sampras were too tired or busy and McEnroe had one foot out the door before he landed in New York after a 5-0 stomping in Spain.

“John was so frustrated by his inability to motivate the players to play or communicate with them,” John P. said. “From Day 1, Patrick started with the young kids, building a team.”

He nurtured relationships with the emerging Andy Roddick and with James Blake. He managed to walk a fine line as commentator and captain, and not without the occasional slip of the tongue that created some trouble.

“If we’re calling a spade a spade, Patrick and I have had our disagreements,” Roddick said. “We’ve had very heated conversations, and he’ll tell you that. But I think the one thing that has made our relationship stronger is just that we’ve always been able to confront it and talk about it.”

The results — especially with Roddick, who has played in every competition but one (because of an injury) — speak for themselves. For all of his Federer follies on tour, Roddick became a dominant Davis Cup player, unbeaten this year after his power-serving, straight-sets victory over Dmitry Tursunov on Friday. That match preceded Blake’s refusal to allow Mikhail Youzhny to drag him to a fifth set.

Clearly, Patrick cracked the longevity code that John and other great players-turned-coaches in any sport invariably have trouble with: knowing first and foremost that it’s not about them.

Captain John figured to flame out fast, and he did. Patrick’s personality was made — assist to mom and dad — to last. John won seven Grand Slam singles titles. Patrick won 16 doubles titles, including the French Open.

“Your best moment ever in tennis?” someone asked Patrick at yesterday’s news conference.

“It’s not about me,” he insisted. “It’s about this whole group of guys.”

Several of whom proceeded to shout, “Say yes!” But he wouldn’t, not there, not until later.

“What I did as a player was marginal,” he said when alone. “I had a couple of moments, but it’s bigger than anything I accomplished on my own.”
40 2007-12-02 “The Golden Compass” was made by New Line Cinema, the studio behind the “Lord of the Rings” trilogy, which is clearly hoping for a hit on a similar scale. To navigate all the obstacles, theological and logistical, and to boil Mr. Pullman’s complicated story down to two hours or so, the studio commissioned Tom Stoppard to write the screenplay.

Two years later, in 2004, after Mr. Stoppard’s script proved unworkable, the studio turned to Chris Weitz, of all people, and hired him both to write and to direct. At that point Mr. Weitz’s résumé consisted mostly of his having written and directed, with his brother Paul, the comedy “About a Boy,” based on the Nick Hornby novel, and that great raunchfest “American Pie.”

“To be candid, it wasn’t like we were fighting off a Robert Zemeckis or a Steven Spielberg,” Toby Emmerich, president of New Line Productions, said recently. “For whatever reason, we hadn’t attracted what in Hollywoodese would be called a no-brainer.”

“And for a project like this,” he added, “maybe you don’t really want a triple-A director. Maybe it’s better to have someone who’s a little hungry.”

In fact, Mr. Weitz wasn’t quite as much a long shot as he seemed. Though American, he was educated in England and has a degree in English literature from Cambridge. And both Mr. Emmerich and Deborah Forte, the co-producer, who originally bought the movie rights from Mr. Pullman, say Mr. Weitz bowled them over with his knowledge of and enthusiasm for the books — first in a Saturday-morning Polo Lounge meeting at the Beverly Hills Hotel with Mr. Emmerich and then with a 40-page treatment he sent them both.

“I also wrote the first draft of a screenplay that was about 186 pages,” Mr. Weitz recalled. “It was utterly unfilmable and would have cost half a billion dollars. The thing is, I absolutely love the books. I’m one of those people who think of them not just as fantasy novels but as exceptional works of the intellect.”

A year later, however, before he had shot a foot of film, Mr. Weitz suddenly proved himself less than hungry and quit the movie. “I just kind of blinked,” he said, explaining that what pushed him over the edge was a visit he had made to Peter Jackson’s New Zealand special-effects facility.

“I had no C.G.I. experience,” he said, “and when I saw how complicated it was, it was utterly terrifying. I was single at the time, and I thought, I’m looking at three years of my life that are just going to get swallowed up and spat out.”

The studio then turned to an even more unlikely director, Anand Tucker, known mainly for “Shopgirl,” based on the Steve Martin novel, who impressed the executives with storyboards suggesting how the movie might look. But Mr. Tucker and New Line soon ran into the kind of impasse that in Hollywood is called “creative differences.”

“You know, sometimes that’s really what they are: creative differences,” Mr. Emmerich said. From Mr. Emmerich’s own account and that of others, it appears that the problem with Mr. Tucker’s “Golden Compass” was that it was paradoxically both more expensive than the movie New Line was hoping for and smaller in scale. The deal breaker may have been when Mr. Tucker, as a cost-cutting move, decided to eliminate the bear fight, the movie’s great set piece.

The studio then re-enlisted Mr. Weitz, who had had a change of heart. He was more settled personally, having met the woman who would eventually become his wife, and, having stayed on the project as screenwriter, felt more comfortable with the story.

“I don’t know how or when the movie would have been made if Chris hadn’t come back,” Mr. Emmerich said. “Who knows what would have happened?”

Fans of Mr. Pullman’s version may be surprised to learn that the movie stops before the book does, leaving out Lyra’s long- anticipated meeting with her father, who plans to wage war on the Almighty himself. Instead the movie ends in stirring fashion, with Lyra saving the kidnapped kids from what amounts to spiritual lobotomy and heading off in an airship with Iorek, an armored bear who has become her friend and protector. “There was tremendous marketing pressure for that,” Mr. Weitz said. “Everyone really wanted an upbeat ending.”

He added, “They’re looking for a franchise here,” meaning that if “The Golden Compass” does well, the studio will go ahead with films based on the two remaining volumes of the trilogy.

The foreshortened end of “The Golden Compass” also has the advantage of lopping off some of the book’s most heavy-duty theological discussion (presumably leaving some of the thornier issues to the sequels). The script also carefully turns the villains from sanctimonious churchmen into all-purpose, nondenominational authoritarians and mind-controllers, though in what will probably feel like a poke in the eye to some people, it has left intact the book’s name for these totalitarians’ ruling body: the Magisterium, which is the same word the Roman Catholic Church uses for its official teaching authority.

William A. Donohue, the president of the Catholic League for Religious and Civil Rights, who also raised a fuss, not very successfully, over “The Da Vinci Code,” has already called for a boycott of “The Golden Compass,” which he described as a “stealth campaign” to introduce children to atheism. At the time of his complaint, he hadn’t actually seen the movie, but claimed he didn’t need to. The problem, as he sees it, is that the “film is bait for the books: unsuspecting parents who take their children to see the movie may feel impelled to buy the three books as a Christmas present.”

Mr. Emmerich said the studio just wanted to make a good movie: “The religion was never a reason to make the movie, or not to make it. I always felt the heart of the story was the relationship between Lyra and Iorek. That and the idea of the daemons. It’s a story about a little girl creating a new family for herself.”

Mr. Weitz says that if he gets to film the rest of the trilogy, he will begin right where the current movie leaves off. “I mean to protect the integrity of those remaining chapters,” he explained. “The aim is to put in the elements we need to make this movie a hit, so that we can be much less compromising in how the second and third books are shot.”
41 2007-12-02 To the Editor:      Re ''A One-Woman Vanguard'' by Anthony Tommasini [Nov. 11]:...
42 2007-12-02 HARDCOVER     1 1 THE AGE OF TURBULENCE by Alan Greenspan (Penguin Press, $35). A memoir by the longtime chairman of the Federal Reserve....
43 2007-12-02 To the Editor:     Re ''Hard to Be an Audiophile in an iPod World'' by Anthony Tommasini [Nov. 25]:...
44 2007-12-02 McCORMICK--Gordon, passed away on November 10, 2007 of Multiple Myeloma. He is survived by his devoted wife, Kimberly, his two sons, John and Michael, his three grandchildren, Eric, Ella and Sean, his sister Annie, his niece Sarah, his two half-si...
45 2007-12-02 LABOUISSE--Eve Curie. A Memorial Service will be held on Thursday, 6 December 2007, 4:00 pm. UNICEF House, 3 UN Plaza, 44th St. between 1st & 2nd Ave. New York City....
46 2007-12-03 The 947 recruits in the city’s current Police Academy class, which is scheduled to graduate on Dec. 27, have been issued iPods to help them study for exams....
47 2007-12-03 The city deficit could rise to $6 billion in the 2011 fiscal year because of the downturn in the housing and mortgage markets, according to a new analysis....
48 2007-12-03 Santa’s workshop opened for business today at a New York City post office, in a holiday drive which will connect hundreds of thousands of Santa letters with the public....
49 2007-12-03 There are no tickets left for Oprah Winfrey's appearance in Columbia, S.C., on Sunday with Barack Obama....
50 2007-12-03 "The Education of Henry Adams" is not really an autobiography. As the author himself confesses several dozen pages from the end, it is the modern omega to the medieval alpha (his book "Mont-Saint-Michel and Chartres") in his project to contrast lo...
51 2007-12-03 On his first full day as Merrill Lynch's chief executive, John A. Thain has already poached someone from his old firm. Merrill said late Monday that it has hired Nelson Chai as its chief financial officer, replacing Jeffrey N. Edwards. Mr. Chai, w...
52 2007-12-03 Whoa. Slow down. There may be a lot less to Verizon newly announced openness....
53 2007-12-03 Don't count on Warren E. Buffett's purchase of TXU bonds from Goldman Sachs as a sign of confidence in the high-yield debt market. The Oracle of Omaha himself doesn't see it that way. Fortune's Peter Eavis reported Monday that the billionaire inve...
54 2007-12-03 John McCain and Christopher Dodd were favorite guests for years before Don Imus was fired by CBS Radio and MSNBC....
55 2007-12-03 Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, the New York law firm, said Monday it named five new partners effective Jan. 1. The new partners include Greg X. Liu and Steven J. Williams, both in the firm's corporate department. Mr. Liu works in Paul W...
56 2007-12-03 (Greg Kadel) We've been asked to be guests bloggers this week - something we've never done before - but we promise to give it our best shot. We hope that our posts will give everyone the opportunity to learn a bit about us beyond the clothes we de...
57 2007-12-03 A newspaper endorsement for John McCain in New Hampshire....
58 2007-12-03 The closet thing the world has to a secret cartel running the world is the investment bank Goldman Sachs, whose alums are routinely Treasury secretaries, high advisers to presidents, and occasionally a governor or United States senator, says Ben S...
59 2007-12-03 Swiss Life surprised investors on Monday with plans to buy AWD, the dynamic German financial advisory group, hard on the heels of big disposals in recent weeks. The company is offering 30 euros a share to buy AWD, valuing the German financial serv...
60 2007-12-03 Nasdaq, the No. 2 U.S. stock exchange, set up shop in Beijing on Monday as it looks to attract more Chinese firms to list on the exchange instead of alternatives such as Hong Kong. Stock exchanges around the world are trying to lure Chinese firms ...
61 2007-12-03 Some advice about eldercare, a daunting work/life issue for those who face it....
62 2007-12-03 PORTLAND, Ore., Dec. 2 — The new Davis Cup champions from the United States played meaningless tennis Sunday against the Russians and recovered from what sounded like a memorable victory party with a full dance floor and rapidly emptying glasses.

“A lot of people were out of their mind last night,” Bob Bryan said.

Such anticlimaxes are a quirk of the Davis Cup. Secure the necessary 3 points during the first two days and the final afternoon of singles becomes a potentially awkward exhibition.

Bryan, one of the identical twins who clinched the Cup in Saturday’s doubles, was on court Sunday at Memorial Coliseum, filling in for Andy Roddick and losing predictably to Igor Andreev of Russia by 6-3, 7-6 (4). James Blake then made the final score 4-1 for the United States by defeating Dmitry Tursunov by 1-6, 6-3, 7-5.

But the future was already of more interest than the present. The question is whether this uplifting long weekend in Portland will remain just that or have a wider impact on the game in the United States.

“You hope it has some effect,” said Patrick McEnroe, the United States captain. “But to be perfectly honest, that’s sort of out of our control. But I think we’ve done our part; I think the guys have done their part. I think the people see their passion and their commitment for playing for their country and for each other. And, to be honest, I feel like that’s enough.”
63 2007-12-03 Moreover, it is already known that Avastin, as with many cancer drugs, can cause serious side effects like cardiovascular problems and bowel perforations and even some deaths. So the issue in this case is whether such risks outweigh the benefits.

“At the end of the day, oncologists are very familiar with the incremental improvements required to move cancer treatment forward,” Michael Aberman, an analyst at Credit Suisse, said in a note to clients today. He said that while the meeting would not be “a walk in the park,” he expected the panel to recommend approval.

Some doctors on their own already use Avastin to treat breast cancer, in a so-called off-label use of the drug. But F.D.A. approval for that purpose would enable Genentech to advertise and promote the drug as a breast cancer treatment and probably make insurers more willing to pay for it.

At one point Avastin, also known as bevacizumab, seemed a shoo-in to be approved for breast cancer. A clinical trial found that adding Avastin to the drug paclitaxel nearly doubled the time before tumors worsened.

The results were so strong that they were announced in April 2005 before the trial was finished. The trial, involving 722 patients, was run by a group of academics sponsored by the National Cancer Institute.

Women with metastatic or recurring breast cancer who received Avastin plus paclitaxel went a median of 11.3 months before either their cancer worsened or they died, a measure known as progression-free survival. That compared to 5.8 months for the women who got only paclitaxel, a generic drug also sold as the branded treatment Taxol.

But the F.D.A. staff rebuffed Genentech’s efforts to win breast-cancer approval in 2006, making the company submit new analyses. The agency questioned whether an improvement in progression-free survival was a sufficient basis for approval.

The agency favors overall survival as a more meaningful indicator of a drug’s value, but in some cases it can take years before patients die. Progression-free survival allows for quicker results and therefore quicker drug approvals. But it can be tricky to measure and might not correlate with how long patients live.

Genentech in its briefing document, argues that progression-free survival has been used by the F.D.A. to approve other breast cancer drugs in the past. Both its document and the F.D.A. analysis were posted today on the F.D.A. Web site.

In this case, the substantial delay in the worsening of cancer did not seem to translate into longer life. The women who got Avastin and paclitaxel lived a median of 26.5 months, compared with 24.8 months for the women who got paclitaxel alone. That difference was not statistically significant.

In addition, the F.D.A. said that 71 percent of the women who got Avastin suffered from a serious side effect, compared with 51 percent of the women who got paclitaxel along. Among those side effects were the deaths of at least five patients that the F.D.A. said were probably or definitely due to the treatment itself, representing 1.4 percent of the women getting Avastin. There were no deaths from the treatment itself among women getting only paclitaxel.

Genentech and the trial investigators had said there were no deaths attributed to Avastin, but the F.D.A. took issue with that conclusion.

One case it cited was that of a 64-year-old women who had suffered a bowel perforation, a known side effect of Avastin, and a serious infection. Genentech and the trial investigators had classified the women’s death as being from her cancer, according to the F.D.A. review.

But the F.D.A. did agree with Genentech’s assessment that some of the increased side effects were caused by paclitaxel. Treatment was supposed to stop once the tumor starting worsening. Since women getting Avastin went twice as long before their tumors worsened, they got twice as much paclitaxel, allowing its toxic effects to accumulate.
64 2007-12-03 In New York City, mold complaints to the city’s housing agency have increased to roughly 21,000 in the 2007 fiscal year from 16,000 in the 2004 fiscal year. Mold complaints to the health department have also jumped in recent years, and legal advocates for low-income tenants say mold cases brought against landlords are increasingly commonplace in New York City Housing Court.

But the nature and extent of the health problems mold has caused or worsened in the city and around the state are largely unknown and open to debate, and the legal requirements for properly ridding a unit or building of excessive mold have yet to be established.

The goal of the Toxic Mold Task Force is to prepare a report to the governor and the Legislature that examines what is known about toxic mold, determines the magnitude of the problem in the state and looks into the possibility of further action by the Legislature or state agencies.

Think of mold, one expert on the subject explained, as a weed. They are both equally ubiquitous: A little bit of mold grows everywhere, indoors and outdoors, year round, primarily in warm, dark and damp locations. There are thousands of different types of mold, but the one that has received the most attention from the media and health officials in recent years is Stachybotrys chartarum, a green-black mold that produces what are known as mycotoxins and is often referred to as toxic mold.

For some people, exposure to mold causes hay fever-like symptoms, like nasal stuffiness and wheezing. For others, including those who have mold allergies or a compromised immune system, the reaction to mold exposure can be more severe. Mold is also widely acknowledged to be a trigger for asthma attacks.

Tongia Edwards, 39, said the black mold that developed in a corner of the bathroom ceiling of her Harlem apartment worsened her asthma and caused asthmatic attacks and health problems for two of her sons. A test in 2006 found the presence of Stachybotrys. Repairs were made, but she recently noticed the mold’s return.

“I feel like it’s a lost cause,” said Ms. Edwards, who has been involved in a dispute with her landlord over the mold and other issues.

Dr. A. Hal Strelnick, a professor of family and social medicine at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx, said that mold contributes to high asthma rates in some of the city’s low-income neighborhoods. “It’s a significant contributor to the asthma burden in the city,” Dr. Strelnick said. “Is it more of a contributor than diesel trucks or people not taking their medications? I couldn’t tell you. But it is a significant contributor.”

Indeed, much about the health effects of toxic mold remains unclear. In 1997, after infants in Cleveland suffered unexplained lung bleeding, the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention conducted a study that found that toxic mold may have caused the children to get sick. The agency later found flaws in that study, and concluded that a possible association between the lung bleeding and exposure to Stachybotrys was not proven. In response to claims that toxic mold caused memory loss, the C.D.C. also determined that that link had not been firmly established. “There’s so much we don’t know about mold,” said Dr. Meyer Kattan, a professor of pediatrics at Columbia University Medical Center and one of the 14 task force members. “What we do know is all over the place.”

The task force is led by Nancy Kim, interim director of the State Department of Health’s Center for Environmental Health, and Thomas Mahar, assistant director of the State Department of State’s Division of Code Enforcement and Administration. Other members include environmental and public health officials from Broome, Erie and Madison Counties and New York City, as well as experts from Columbia, Cornell and Syracuse Universities.

New York City is known for being tough on mold. Evidence of mold in an apartment can qualify as either a Class B or Class C violation of the Housing Maintenance Code. Class B violations pose a hazardous condition to occupants and Class C violations are considered immediately hazardous.

If an inspector with the city’s Department of Housing Preservation and Development finds more than 25 square feet of mold in a room, or more than 100 square feet in an entire apartment, the problem is considered a Class C violation, the most serious kind of housing code violation. The number of Class B violations issued for mold have increased to 12,117 in the 2007 fiscal year from 6,614 in the 2005 fiscal year, while Class C violations decreased slightly in the same time period, to 1,818 from 1,993.

It is the building owner’s responsibility to correct Class C violations. The city can perform emergency repairs to fix uncorrected Class C violations and can force the owner to pay for the work, a Housing Preservation and Development spokesman said. In addition, a Housing Court judge can issue fines.

The state’s mold standards are not as clearly defined. A spokesman for the state’s housing agency, the Division of Housing and Community Renewal, said that there were no specific statewide regulations regarding mold, but that the agency could dispatch inspectors to investigate mold complaints.

Ms. Krueger said the lack of a state definition about what qualifies as hazardous mold and what steps are legally required to clean it up were regulatory gaps that the task force needed to address. “In the absence of that, how do you find out what’s dangerous here and what are you supposed to do to make sure it gets fixed?” she said.

Even the phrase “toxic mold” is somewhat controversial.

The C.D.C. does not use that term, noting that while some molds produce mycotoxins, molds themselves are not toxic or poisonous. State environmental health officials acknowledge that toxic mold is not so much a scientific term as a generic one, used to refer to molds that can affect people’s health. The law creating the task force does not define the phrase.

Bill Sothern, chief investigator at Microecologies Inc., an environmental inspection company he founded in 1993 that has offices in New York, Los Angeles and New Orleans, said that the task force was much needed, but that he could do without the name.

“It sounds kind of sensationalized,” he said.

But the problem, he added, is quite real.

New York City appears to be going through a Stachybotrys crisis, he said. He attributed the spread of the mold to the widespread use of gypsum wallboard, where mold can thrive in wet conditions, and haphazard remediation work that allows the mold to return. “It’s in the finest buildings in New York, down to the tenements and slumlord-type buildings,” he said of Stachybotrys.

Mr. Sothern said landlords should be required to follow the city’s guidelines for effective mold assessment and removal. The guidelines were first issued in 1993 by the city’s health department. In December 2006, the city’s public advocate, Betsy Gotbaum, issued a report that called for the guidelines to be incorporated into the Housing Maintenance Code.

“Even though we have these great guidelines in New York, there’s nothing that requires the landlords to follow those guidelines,” Mr. Sothern said.
65 2007-12-03 The winter plans for the Texas Rangers have already shifted off center.

Getting an upgrade in center field has been the priority. But the decision by the free agent Torii Hunter to sign with the Los Angeles Angels rather than with Texas to be close to his home has altered the Rangers’ focus.

“I would expand that to be outfield in general,” General Manager Jon Daniels said before leaving for baseball’s winter meetings, which begin today in Nashville. Noting that the Rangers have players to put in center, he said, “That allows us to look at both corners, and center.”

The Rangers would also like to add a veteran reliever, but they prefer not to offer more than a one-year deal. Also on their list is a middle-of-the-order hitter who can also play first base.

Designated hitter Sammy Sosa was declined salary arbitration before Saturday night’s deadline, along with Jamey Wright, Jerry Hairston Jr. and Brad Wilkerson. But that does not preclude the Rangers from re-signing them at any time.

Daniels said there have been some conversations with Sosa’s agent, Adam Katz, about Sosa’s returning next season. But Katz is also still trying to get a feel for Sosa’s value.
66 2007-12-03 More ambitious yet, the ports plan to “cold iron” ships in the harbor, requiring on some ships the on-board power generation equipment to be shut down, and supplying them instead from the shore-side power grid.

At the Long Beach port, BP is preparing to plug in a “6,000-volt extension cord” to feed incoming tankers, each of which uses as much electricity to unload its cargo as it takes to run half a dozen shopping centers for the same length of time. On the Los Angeles side, several container ships are already powered from shore sources.

This is an expensive alternative; the port of Long Beach has spent $15 million to electrify a single dock, and estimates are that wiring a ship to accept shore-side power costs more than $1 million. Los Angeles says it is wiring its berths for about $3 million each. Ports in Europe and elsewhere are considering doing the same because ships burn relatively dirty diesel fuel in port, and in many places are the last uncontrolled major pollution sources.

“There’s been a clear message from the communities and the City Council saying, ‘you guys can’t grow until you’ve addressed the air pollution,’” said Art Wong, a spokesman for the port of Long Beach. “So we can grow, but we grow green.”

Mr. Wong said the port had plans for about $2 billion in expansions that have been blocked because of air pollution limits, and the Port of Los Angeles had even more.

James J. Corbett, an associate professor at the University of Delaware College of Marine and Earth Studies, said that pollution from ships — in port or offshore — was a significant cause of lung disease. Ports like Los Angeles and Long Beach cannot regulate ships at sea, he said, but “this is a step within the power, technically, economically and jurisdictionally, of the ports themselves.”

The California Air Resources Board is scheduled to vote in early December on regulations modeled after the ones here that would cover the whole state.

But the devil is in the details. Some skeptics say the shore-based utilities will not be able to deliver enough electricity on days of peak demand. And the trucking part of the program is complicated. The two ports have agreed to ban old trucks, and plan to vote soon to impose extra fees on incoming containers — perhaps $30 or $40 a container for 5 to 10 years — to raise $1.5 billion to $2 billion. But they have not agreed on how to subsidize the truckers, mostly small operators, or assure that the new trucks stay at the port or that the old ones are actually retired.

S. David Freeman, chairman of the Los Angeles Harbor Commission, said the next step “is raising the money to help the small guys adjust and go from dirty to cleaner.”

Mr. Freeman said the Los Angeles port was also working on battery-powered trucks and other low-pollution innovations.

Thomas Bonilla is an owner-operator whose 1988 Peterbilt truck embodies all the problems, pitfalls and promises in the program.

It has just over 30,000 miles on the odometer, but only because it has rolled over; the actual mileage is 1,030,000, Mr. Bonilla said. “If I keep it well, it will go, probably, forever,” he said.

Mr. Bonilla, one of the many owner-operators who work the ports, paid about $16,000 for his truck when he bought it three years ago, and put another $8,000 into it: $1,200 for new fuel tanks, for instance, and $1,800 for a paint job.

“I understand about the pollution,” he said. But a new truck would cost $120,000 to $140,000, which he said he did not have, and many of the new trucks burn more fuel than older ones.

Mr. Bonilla, towing a 20-foot bright red container for Hamburg Sud, the shipping company, said he did not know what he would do after the ban is imposed next fall. He said he might look for a different line of work, but in any case, the truck “will be working somewhere else,” in all probability still in Southern California, polluting the same air.
67 2007-12-03 Thom Mayne of Morphosis in Los Angeles designed a house that would float if the city floods. James Timberlake of KieranTimberlake Associates in Philadelphia created a house with native vines climbing up the side walls to provide shade and coolness. Steven B. Bingler of Concordia in New Orleans envisioned a house with wide front steps ideal for a traditional crawfish boil.

Those are three of the designs by 13 architecture firms commissioned by the actor Brad Pitt to help rebuild New Orleans’s impoverished Lower Ninth Ward, one of the neighborhoods hit hardest by Hurricane Katrina in 2005.

The project, called Make It Right, calls for building 150 affordable, environmentally sound houses over the next two years. In a telephone interview from New Orleans, where he plans to present the designs today, Mr. Pitt said the residents of the neighborhood had been homeless long enough. “They’re coming up on their third Christmas,” he said.

Mr. Pitt said he had been attached to New Orleans for more than a decade. “I’ve always had a fondness for this place — it’s like no other,” he said. “Seeing the frustration firsthand made me want to return the kindness this city has shown me.”

Rather than bemoan the slow pace of redevelopment in the Ninth Ward, Mr. Pitt said he decided to address the problem directly by teaming with William McDonough, the green design expert; Graft, a Los Angeles architecture firm; and Cherokee, an investment firm based in Raleigh, N.C., that specializes in sustainable redevelopment. John Williams of New Orleans is the executive architect for the project.

“If you have this blank slate and this great technology out there, what better test than low-income housing?” Mr. Pitt said. “It’s got to work at all levels to really be viable.”
68 2007-12-03 “We’d like to say it didn’t bother us, but. ...” Jets receiver Brad Smith said, trailing off before whispering. “That wasn’t right.”

If only the Jets could play the Dolphins 16 times each season. On a sunny afternoon under nearly cloudless skies — the backdrop for a game that turned ugly later on — they won for the fourth straight time against Miami.

Everything that had gone wrong for the Jets this season went right. The running game that often appeared to walk accounted for 163 yards and 3 touchdowns. The Jets ran for only two touchdowns in the first 11 games.

Leon Washington scored twice, the first on an 18-yard scamper that gave the Jets a 7-0 lead; the second a 12-yard dash that capped the victory. In between, the Jets scored 26 points — more than they scored in nine other games this season.

Mike Nugent kicked four field goals between 26 and 40 yards, and Thomas Jones scored his long-awaited first touchdown as a Jet.

“I’m keeping the ball,” he said afterward, unable to suppress a smile.

Quarterback Kellen Clemens improved his record as a starter to 2-3 and posted a career-high 91.7 passer rating. He completed 15 of 24 passes for 236 yards and a touchdown. He also threw an interception and fumbled, and Michael Lehan returned the fumble 43 yards for the touchdown that gave the Dolphins a brief 13-10 lead.

Asked if the Jets did anything the Dolphins did not expect, defensive end Jason Taylor said, “Score 40 points.”

But the Jets did so much more than that. They ran trick plays, snapping directly to Washington or Smith, who scored a second-quarter touchdown, and mixing in shovel passes and play-action passes.

The offense received a boost shortly before the game. Clemens knew he would be without receiver Jerricho Cotchery, who has a broken index finger on his right hand. Then Laveranues Coles trotted on the field before the game to test his injured ankle. When he returned to the locker room, he told Clemens, “I’m going today.”

When Coles tugged on his uniform, he said he saw “a look” in his teammates’ eyes. Coles missed two of the last three games, but he gutted out five receptions for 69 yards Sunday. Coles was limping visibly. Asked to describe the pain, he said, “One word: hurt.”

“L. C. is a courageous player,” Clemens said.

Clemens spreads compliments after games the way he spreads passes during them. He found eight receivers against the Dolphins, including the rarely used options Wallace Wright and Chris Davis. Afterward, he talked of those receivers, his linemen, Jones, Washington, the Jets’ defense and his offensive coordinator — forgetting only to thank the person who taped his ankles.

The defense deserved the back-patting. Just as it did last season, the unit has improved significantly after the bye week, allowing fewer yards and points than before the bye, while making most quarterbacks miserable.

The Jets harassed and harried the Dolphins rookie John Beck. They intercepted him three times, forced three fumbles and recovered two of them.

In the third quarter, on three consecutive drives, the Jets forced a turnover and the offense turned advantageous field position into points. These Jets looked nothing like the Jets who had stumbled and bumbled through 2007, but then again, they were playing the Dolphins.

The Jets refused to ask what-if afterward, because as Ellis said: “Only we messed up our season. We did it to ourselves.”

Meanwhile, Miami increased its odds of making the wrong kind of history this season. The Dolphins became the first team to start 0-12 since the 2001 Lions, who finished 2-14. Miami now stands four losses from becoming the first team with a 16-game schedule to lose them all.

The Dolphins’ frustration was evident. They once kicked off 7 ½ yards from their end zone after back-to-back personal foul and unsportsmanlike conduct penalties.

David Bowens, who plays for the Jets and played six seasons for the Dolphins, likens these meetings to “your biggest college rivalry, like West Virginia-Pittsburgh.” The Dolphins and the Jets threw punches, yapped and talked trash.

At one point, the 6-foot-6 Taylor and the 5-foot-8 Washington stood near the end zone, toe to toe, jawing, symbolic of what this rivalry used to be.

Instead, the fans who filled Dolphin Stadium filed out long before the game concluded. And the underdogs talked about what it meant to beat the favored — and still winless — home opponent.

“That has to be the first time in football history that happened,” tight end Chris Baker said. “We started hearing, ‘This is their chance to win.’ We wanted to show them, this isn’t going to be that game.”
69 2007-12-03 While the agreement in France is the most striking departure from that way of thinking, analysts say that Internet providers may have to soften their positions elsewhere, too, under pressure from governments or the courts.

In Britain and Sweden, for example, government-sponsored reports have urged Internet providers to sit down with media companies and come up with a solution to online piracy.

In the United States, one service provider, Comcast, has acknowledged slowing down file-sharing activity on its network, though not blocking it outright. But Comcast has said this was part of a policy of “network management” intended to keep traffic moving, since file sharing takes up significant amounts of bandwidth.

In Belgium a court ruled last summer that an Internet service provider, Scarlet, should be required to filter out illegal online exchanges of music via peer-to-peer networks. The court gave Scarlet until the end of this year to install the necessary safeguards; Scarlet has appealed.

The French proposal stops short of requiring filtering, which is aimed at halting illegal sharing before it starts, but it calls for experiments with the technology to do so within two years.

In return for persuading the service providers to crack down, French media owners agreed to remove some of the digital strings they have typically attached to their works. That could allow service providers to enhance their digital music stores and other online content offerings, generating more revenue from them.

Music industry groups agreed to remove so-called digital rights management protection from music recorded by French record labels and sold online, allowing customers to transfer songs to more than one music player — something that some record companies have already been doing. Movie companies agreed to shorten the lag time between the release of French films on DVD and their later appearance on video-on-demand systems.

The plan, drawn up under the guidance of Denis Olivennes, chief executive of the electronics, movie and music retailer FNAC, is the latest in a series of French efforts to deal with media piracy.

Persistent violators, for instance, already face the threat of fines and up to three years in prison. But only about 50 people have been prosecuted and few convicted under these laws, according to the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, a trade group for the record companies.

Other initiatives aimed at supporting French cultural industries, including a proposal to create a “global license” that would permit unlimited digital media consumption in return for a monthly fee, have foundered for lack of support.

By contrast, the Olivennes plan seems to have broad support, with France Télécom, the movie company Gaumont, copyright protection societies and others endorsing it.
70 2007-12-03 Lumped by history with Schumann’s other large-scale vocal works, “Das Paradies und die Peri” has suffered guilt by association. “Genoveva,” his only finished opera, demonstrates a great man’s stubborn ineptitude in theatrical matters. “Scenes From Goethe’s ‘Faust’” sets out to be an opera, then loses heart and retreats into a kind of oratorio. Beautiful music in both cases is squandered on unsustainable formats.

The oratorio “Das Paradies und die Peri,” which the Philadelphia Orchestra brought to Carnegie Hall under Simon Rattle on Friday, is another matter. Exotic in subject matter, naïve for its starry-eyed moralizing, but suffused musically with the fresh-picked quality of Schumann’s best work, this hour-and-a-half piece gives “The Arabian Nights” good Lutheran advice on how to get to heaven. Who knew, or how many of us have forgotten, that Schumann could write choral music of such loveliness, not to mention sustain long narrative arcs?

The Peri of Persian myth is a creature hovering somewhere between human and angelic status, and here she seeks entry into paradise. Sent back on a kind of spiritual scavenger hunt, she returns first with the blood of a martyred soldier and second with the last sigh of a dying maiden. Both are rejected. The tears of a reformed villain do the trick. Pearly gates open to general rejoicing.

“Das Paradies und die Peri” was a hit in 1843, Schumann’s first. It remained popular for years, then faded, perhaps victim of a didactic sentimentality trying to function in an increasingly hip world. Intended to carry a religious message of sacrifice and redemption, its 26 numbers end up telling us more about that deathless German yearning for bluer skies and warmer weather. Goethe marched south and embraced all things Italian. Schumann did not stop until he got to the Middle East.

“Das Paradies und die Peri” is at its best at its most gentle. The calm, rolling choral textures that end Part 2 are simply breathtaking. Mr. Rattle nicely exploited the sophisticated skills of the Philadelphia Orchestra. The Philadelphia Singers Chorale did well at times, but too often sounded as if it were reacting to Mr. Rattle and his players rather than joining them at the music’s forward edge.

Heidi Grant Murphy, heartfelt as the Peri, threw herself bravely at the desperately difficult soprano passages at the end. Mark Padmore was the fine, clear tenor in a part reminiscent of Baroque music’s evangelist-narrators. Bernarda Fink was the first-rate mezzo-soprano. Other singers were Christine Brandes, Joseph Kaiser and Luca Pisaroni, all effective.
71 2007-12-03 America’s least-loved Christmas song is a Danish recording of “Jingle Bells,” performed in dog barks. The song — which enjoyed brief success in the United States in 1955 and 1970 — took last place in a test of 579 Christmas recordings, performed by Edison Media Research. Edison played the songs for a national sample of 200 women aged 30 to 49, recruited via e-mail, who said that they either liked or loved Christmas music.

All five of the best-loved Christmas songs are more than four decades old. The newest recording among the top 10 is John Lennon’s 1971 song “Happy Christmas (War Is Over).”

“It is certainly a place where the rules about who’s relevant are suspended for a month,” said Sean Ross, a radio analyst with Edison. “Even the Christmas songs that we think of as contemporary, things like Wham’s ‘Last Christmas,’ are 20 years old at this point.”

Elmo & Patsy’s 1984 novelty track, “Grandma Got Run Over by a Reindeer,” was hated by 17 percent and loved by 47 percent.
72 2007-12-03 LOS ANGELES, Dec. 2 — The “Kite Runner” boys are safely out of Kabul. After months of worrying and diplomatic wrangling from half a world away, the movie studio that is releasing the tale of childhood betrayal, ethnic tension and sexual predation in Afghanistan has whisked to safety four young actors. They were feared to be vulnerable to reprisal because of the film’s depiction of a culturally inflammatory rape scene.

The boys, each accompanied by a relative, arrived in the United Arab Emirates on Friday just after 3 a.m. Eastern time, said officials working with the studio, Paramount Pictures. The movie’s release had been delayed by six weeks to allow time for them to be relocated. It will open on Dec. 14 in 30 markets.

“I can’t really tell you what a weight came off when they landed safely,” said Megan Colligan, a Paramount marketing executive involved in the effort. The group exodus from Kabul did not come in time for the boys to obtain visas and attend the “Kite Runner” premiere, which will take place on Tuesday night at the Egyptian Theater in Hollywood. But Paramount executives and others involved in the relocation effort still hope to bring the co-stars to the United States to be honored somehow and to grant their wish to visit as tourists.

“We owe these kids some carefree moments as children after everything that has gone around them,” said Rich Klein, a Middle East specialist at the consulting firm Kissinger McLarty Associates, who was hired by the studio.

“The Kite Runner,” like the best-selling novel on which it is based, spans three decades of Afghan strife and centers on the friendship between Amir, a wealthy Pashtun boy played by Zekiria Ebrahimi, who is now 11, and Hassan, the Hazara son of his father’s servant. In a pivotal scene Hassan, played by Ahmad Khan Mahmoodzada, now 13, is raped in an alley by a Pashtun bully. Later, Sohrab, a Hazara boy played by Ali Danish Bakhty Ari, now also 13, is preyed upon by a corrupt Taliban official.

The young actors have already received widespread praise. In The New York Times, Karen Durbin wrote that Ahmad Khan’s portrayal “ranks among the great child performances on film.”
73 2007-12-03 “What we are witnessing,” says Bill Gross of the bond manager Pimco, “is essentially the breakdown of our modern-day banking system, a complex of leveraged lending so hard to understand that Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke required a face-to-face refresher course from hedge fund managers in mid-August.”

The freezing up of the financial markets will, if it goes on much longer, lead to a severe reduction in overall lending, causing business investment to go the way of home construction — and that will mean a recession, possibly a nasty one.

Behind the disappearance of liquidity lies a collapse of trust: market players don’t want to lend to each other, because they’re not sure they’ll be repaid.

In a direct sense, this collapse of trust has been caused by the bursting of the housing bubble. The run-up of home prices made even less sense than the dot-com bubble — I mean, there wasn’t even a glamorous new technology to justify claims that old rules no longer applied — but somehow financial markets accepted crazy home prices as the new normal. And when the bubble burst, a lot of investments that were labeled AAA turned out to be junk.

Thus, “super-senior” claims against subprime mortgages — that is, investments that have first dibs on whatever mortgage payments borrowers make, and were therefore supposed to pay off in full even if a sizable fraction of these borrowers defaulted on their debts — have lost a third of their market value since July.

But what has really undermined trust is the fact that nobody knows where the financial toxic waste is buried. Citigroup wasn’t supposed to have tens of billions of dollars in subprime exposure; it did. Florida’s Local Government Investment Pool, which acts as a bank for the state’s school districts, was supposed to be risk-free; it wasn’t (and now schools don’t have the money to pay teachers).

How did things get so opaque? The answer is “financial innovation” — two words that should, from now on, strike fear into investors’ hearts.

O.K., to be fair, some kinds of financial innovation are good. I don’t want to go back to the days when checking accounts didn’t pay interest and you couldn’t withdraw cash on weekends.

But the innovations of recent years — the alphabet soup of C.D.O.’s and S.I.V.’s, R.M.B.S. and A.B.C.P. — were sold on false pretenses. They were promoted as ways to spread risk, making investment safer. What they did instead — aside from making their creators a lot of money, which they didn’t have to repay when it all went bust — was to spread confusion, luring investors into taking on more risk than they realized.

Why was this allowed to happen? At a deep level, I believe that the problem was ideological: policy makers, committed to the view that the market is always right, simply ignored the warning signs. We know, in particular, that Alan Greenspan brushed aside warnings from Edward Gramlich, who was a member of the Federal Reserve Board, about a potential subprime crisis.

And free-market orthodoxy dies hard. Just a few weeks ago Henry Paulson, the Treasury secretary, admitted to Fortune magazine that financial innovation got ahead of regulation — but added, “I don’t think we’d want it the other way around.” Is that your final answer, Mr. Secretary?

Now, Mr. Paulson’s new proposal to help borrowers renegotiate their mortgage payments and avoid foreclosure sounds in principle like a good idea (although we have yet to hear any details). Realistically, however, it won’t make more than a small dent in the subprime problem.

The bottom line is that policy makers left the financial industry free to innovate — and what it did was to innovate itself, and the rest of us, into a big, nasty mess.
74 2007-12-03 LABOUISSE--Eve Curie. A Memorial Service will be held on Thursday, 6 December 2007, 4:00 pm. UNICEF House, 3 UN Plaza, 44th St. between 1st & 2nd Ave. New York City....
75 2007-12-03 OPEC'S DILEMMA After a year of dizzying gains for energy markets, a rapid fall in oil prices lately is posing a dilemma for OPEC, the oil-producing cartel. OPEC officials are to meet in Abu Dhabi this week to set output levels for the winter.     ...
76 2007-12-03 The endorsement yesterday of Senator John McCain by New Hampshire's largest newspaper, The New Hampshire Union Leader of Manchester, is an undeniable boost for his campaign, which is counting on a victory in that state to propel them forward. But ...
77 2007-12-04 The frozen yogurt wars are heating up in New York, with the opening of the first Red Mango store in Greenwich Village, almost directly across the street from its archrival, Pinkberry....
78 2007-12-04 When friends and family of Ann Marie McNally search for the deceased woman’s name in Google, they come across several distasteful posts — all exemplary of the spam that some fear is taking over search engine results. After Ms. McNally died at ...
79 2007-12-04 Animated films from Germany, France, the Netherlands and elsewhere at the Istanbul Modern. In a country where the prime minister has sued cartoonists who portrayed him as a cat tangled in a ball of twine, or a dog in a pet show, there's a twinge o...
80 2007-12-04 The political landscape changes as it is learned that Iran's nuclear weapons program has been inactive since 2003.
81 2007-12-04 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
82 2007-12-04 New Yorkers have to put up with exorbitant rents, traffic-snarled streets, and many other urban burdens. Somewhere on this list - and not necessarily at the bottom - is the lack of public restrooms. Most New Yorkers know the tricks - Starbucks and...
83 2007-12-04 President Bush waxes sentimental about the excitement of campaigning....
84 2007-12-04 At first glance, investors in OZ Master Fund, the flagship of the giant hedge-fund firm Och-Ziff Capital, might not be thrilled to learn that it was down 0.3 percent last month. (Now that Och-Ziff is publicly traded, we can all enjoy periodic upda...
85 2007-12-04 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
86 2007-12-04 (Greg Kadel) We've been working with the London-based stylist Katie Grand for about a year. When conceptualizing the collection, we engage in an intense dialogue with Katie that somehow evolves into what you see on the runway. She has been a huge ...
87 2007-12-04 "Atonement" bows in New York, and the Bagger gets his first shot of the season at those little burgers he loves....
88 2007-12-04 At a MySpace/MTV forum, the Republican candidate spends most of the time on foreign policy....
89 2007-12-04 Travelport, the travel services company that Blackstone Group bought 16 months ago, has filed to list on the London Stock Exchange, Reuters reported, citing undisclosed sources. The offering could raise about $2 billion, Reuters said. A Travelport...
90 2007-12-04 Lehman Brothers said Tuesday it would buy assets from Dutch specialist market maker Van der Moolen including its New York Stock Exchange portfolio. With the acquisition Lehman said it would establish a market-making firm on the New York Stock Exch...
91 2007-12-04 Lazard, the investment bank run by Bruce Wasserstein, said on Tuesday that it has hired the former managing director of the International Monetary Fund as a senior managing director for its investment banking unit. Rodrigo de Rato, who also served...
92 2007-12-04 Five hedge fund managers at London's Marble Bar Asset Management will share at least $400 million after agreeing to sell their five-year-old firm to EFG International, the Swiss bank. Investment bank Lehman Brothers, which bought a 20 percent stak...
93 2007-12-04 A life of private jets and black-tie balls ended with Seth Tobias, a wealthy investment manager and a familiar presence on CNBC, floating face down in the swimming pool of his mansion in Jupiter, Florida. It was just after midnight on Sept. 4 when...
94 2007-12-04 In the latest twist in Delphi's ongoing bankruptcy saga, the auto-parts supplier has sought a three-month extension of its right to control its bankruptcy reorganization, saying the credit crunch has made it difficult for the company to obtain Cha...
95 2007-12-04 Transocean, the world's largest offshore oil and gas drilling contractor, on Monday said it plans to raise $8.5 billion by issuing debt in order to repay borrowings to pay shareholders in its recent purchase of GlobalSantaFe. The company plans pub...
96 2007-12-04 The Patriots are 12-0, and although they have looked vulnerable for two weeks in a row and have trailed in the fourth quarter in three of the last four games, they managed to prevail Monday night when they seemed all but dead.

“We made it hard on oursleves, but we kept clawing back,” Brady said. “There were a lot of questionable calls out there. We made a lot of plays under pressure.”

The Patriots are the sixth team in N.F.L. history to start 12-0. Brady was 18 of 38 for 257 yards and 2 touchdowns.

For the Ravens (4-8), whose season has unraveled with injuries to quarterback Steve McNair and with a defense that is more porous than it has been in years, this was their Super Bowl.

Their late-game meltdown — defensive coordinator Rex Ryan called a timeout just as the defense held on fourth down in the final Patriots drive; a defensive holding penalty on the second fourth down continued the drive — only exacerbates the agony of a disappointing season. “We didn’t feel like we were in the right configuration,” Ravens Coach Brian Billick said. “We kind of knew what they were going to do, and feel like we needed a better call, I guess. If he’d have gotten the first, it would have been you screaming, ‘Why didn’t you call timeout?’ Let’s make sure we don’t have a revisionist history.”

“I would have gotten the first down if it didn’t blow; I stopped,” Brady said, jokingly.

Their futility lasted until the very end when Kyle Boller heaved his final pass 52 yards, where it was caught by receiver Mark Clayton 3 yards short of a miraculous touchdown as time expired.

“I was proud of the way they played when it was all on the line,” Coach Bill Belichick said.

The script that the Philadelphia Eagles provided last week worked just fine for the Ravens, too. They pressured Brady, and with the aid of a strong wind that held his passes in the air, they limited big pass plays, holding the Patriots to only 125 yards, no third down conversions and three punts in the first half.

They pounded the ball effectively, with Willis McGahee rushing for 138 yards on 30 carries.

The Ravens held a 17-10 lead early in the third quarter after their swarming defense held the Patriots on first-and-goal to just a field goal on their opening drive. Boller, picking up where A. J. Feeley left off last week, matched Brady’s statistics in the first half and McGahee led a previously anemic offense by pounding the ball at the lone question mark in the Patriots’s formidable defense: linebacker.

But when the Patriots needed to catch up, they seized control of the tempo of the game, going to a no-huddle offense that limited the Ravens’s defensive substitutions and quickening the pace. Brady, scrambling away from pressure, hit Laurence Maroney with a short pass that he turned into a 36-yard gain.

Then the Patriots kept running until finally, on third and one, Brady found Randy Moss in the back of the end zone for a touchdown that tied the score 17-17 midway through the third quarter. It was the 40th touchdown pass of the season for Brady, but it came under circumstances that almost nobody would have believed.

And then the Ravens went back to what they vowed to do all game, pounding the run at the Patriots, who gave up big chunks of yardage each time McGahee and his backup Musa Smith touched the ball.

After the Patriots tied the game, the Ravens moved back down the field at will, propelled by McGahee until, on first and goal, Boller, with McGahee blocking, found Daniel Wilcox in the back of the end zone for a touchdown.

On their next drive, the Patriots struggled to protect Brady and he was sacked twice in a row. A 33-yard punt return put the Ravens on the Patriots’ 26-yard line. But then Boller morphed into — well — Feeley, throwing a mindless pass deep in Patriots territory. James Sanders intercepted it, but when a pass glanced off Moss’s hands in the end zone, the Patriots settled for a 38-yard field goal midway through the fourth quarter that pulled them to 24-20.

Shula was openly cheering the Ravens on by then. But the Ravens would have needed far more — like a few of Shula’s players from the 1972 team, or even the 1985 one that ruined the Bears’ perfect season — to hold off a team that might ultimately best every team in history for talent, and luck, too.
97 2007-12-04 Mrs. Tobias’s lawyers call the claims outrageous. She has not been accused of any crime.

The mystery deepened when it emerged that Mrs. Tobias spent $9,628 to have the pool drained and resurfaced days after her husband died, according to documents filed in an unrelated case.

The salacious accusations have captivated this wealthy enclave north of West Palm Beach and transfixed the investment world in New York, where Mr. Tobias ran a $300 million hedge fund from an office on Park Avenue. From the Breakers hotel in Palm Beach, a stately symbol of old money, to trading floors on Wall Street, the epicenter of the explosive wealth now reshaping American society, the case is seen as a parable of the modern gilded age.

“I don’t understand why this hasn’t ended up on ‘CSI: Miami’ yet,” said Jim Cramer, the host of CNBC’s stock-picking show “Mad Money” and Mr. Tobias’s former boss on Wall Street.

The questions keep piling up, starting with the big one: How did Mr. Tobias die? The police in Jupiter have not opened a homicide investigation but are awaiting the results of toxicology tests before making a final determination, said Sgt. Scott Pascarella.

At the center of the dispute is Mr. Tobias’s will, which designates his brothers as beneficiaries but does not name Mrs. Tobias. She contends that she is entitled to the estate because the will was signed before the couple married. In court filings, the Tobias brothers invoke Florida’s “slayer statute,” which prohibits inheritance by a person who murders someone from whom they stand to inherit. They claim she “intentionally killed” her husband “by asphyxiation and drowning.”

One lawyer representing Mrs. Tobias, Gary Dunkin, said he was shocked by the accusation. “In my 25 years practicing law, this is the most reckless allegation I have ever seen,” he said in court. Her lawyers, which include her prior husband, Jay J. Jacknin, have asked the court to put off her depositions, citing her “psychiatric condition.” They said she hired contractors to empty the pool because she was distraught over her husband’s death.

However this mystery plays out, it is providing a treasure of details about the lavish lifestyles that hedge funds can afford their founders, and perhaps sheds light on how all that money ultimately influences personal lives.

Mr. Tobias, a native of Philadelphia, entered this secretive, often volatile corner of the financial world after spending less than a decade on Wall Street, including a stint with Mr. Cramer’s former money-management firm. He formed Circle T in 1996, with $4 million, and parlayed that into a $300 million hedge fund and brokerage firm. Circle T is in the process of returning investors’ funds; clients have not lost money.

He counted among his investors Samuel Zell, the billionaire who recently agreed to buy the Tribune Company. Mr. Zell, in an interview, said he rarely interacted with Mr. Tobias. “I knew Seth for 10 or 15 years on a very unconnected basis,” he said. “He was a good, smart guy.”

Along the way, Mr. Tobias collected the trappings of success. He spent days at the Kentucky Derby and nights at Donald Trump’s Mar-a-Lago Club. He frequently shuttled by private jet between New York, where he worked in the Seagram Building in Manhattan, and Florida, where he owned two homes.

Mr. Tobias made — and apparently spent — millions of dollars a year, court documents suggest. Outstanding expenses at the time of his death included $52,532 on his American Express Centurion Black Card and $7,960 on his Bank of America credit card. His mortgage payment for one of his homes was $35,000 a month. He paid $1,367 a month to lease a Land Rover. His monthly cable bill from Comcast was $535.19.

But the boyish Mr. Tobias never ran with the titans of Wall Street. He was a small player in an industry where successful managers command billions or even tens of billions of dollars. Nonetheless, Mr. Tobias managed to make a name for himself on financial-news television, appearing on “Squawk Box” and “Kudlow & Company” on CNBC.

Now, the hints emerging about his private life have captivated Wall Street. Mrs. Tobias told the police that her husband may have been using cocaine on the night he died, according to police reports. Some of Mr. Tobias’s former associates say he used drugs regularly and often disappeared from his office for days or weeks at a time.

Mr. Tobias’s life was apparently as volatile as his investment returns. After Circle T lost 5.3 percent in 2005, his marriage began to fray. In March 2006, the police were called to the Tobiases’ home because of a domestic disturbance. A few days later. Mr. Tobias filed for divorce. It was one week before the couple’s first anniversary.

The Tobiases later reconciled. But the divorce filings included a laundry list of accusations. Mrs. Tobias stated that she caught him having an “adulterous affair” and that he “gambled away tens of thousands of dollars and used other funds on illicit habits.” She asked the court to award her $46,000 a month for living expenses. He argued that she was constantly spending too much money.

Even after the couple reconciled, they fought constantly, mostly over money, according to several friends, who asked not to be identified for fear of being subpoenaed in connection with the case or because they were worried that their professional reputations would be harmed by being associated with the case. At one point, Mrs. Tobias bought a Porsche on her credit card and then cried when Mr. Tobias told her to return it, one friend recounted.

They also secretly frequented a gay bar called Cupids in West Palm Beach, in a strip mall along a main thoroughfare. It was there, according to Mr. Ash, that Mr. Tobias first met Tiger.

“Seth used to come in here back when it was crazy,” said Adiel Hemingway, the longtime manager of Cupids. As a flat-screen television blared hard-core gay pornography, he said that Mr. Tobias often came to the club with his wife. Mr. Hemingway took out a picture of Tiger in his office. Tiger is blond and covered with tattoos that look like stripes.

“I know exactly who he is, but I’m not telling you,” Mr. Hemingway said. The Tobias brothers have subpoenaed Tiger, using the address of Cupids, but have been unable to learn his true name.

The day Mr. Tobias died, he spent the afternoon at the Breakers with his wife and several friends, drinking and possibly using cocaine, according to Mrs. Tobias’s statement to the police. From there, Mr. Tobias went with one of the friends to E. R. Bradley’s Saloon, a boisterous open-air bar in Palm Beach that looks over the Intracoastal Waterway.

What happened next is unclear, except that Mr. Tobias was dead in the pool, with abrasions on his nose, forehead and back. When the police arrived, Mrs. Tobias, on the advice of a friend who is a lawyer, refused to let them enter the house, which is perched on the edge of the sixth hole of a Jack Nicklaus-designed golf course in a gated community. After returning with a warrant, the police found a Ziploc bag with a white powdery substance and a small baggie and a straw, as well as two empty plastic prescription bottles. Mr. Tobias’s eyeglasses and a drinking glass were discovered on the bottom of the pool.

According to the brothers’ lawsuit, Mrs. Tobias caused her husband “to ingest one or more controlled substances that induced loss of consciousness and capacity to breathe.” They further claimed that she caused him “to enter the swimming pool at their residence after his ingestion of controlled substances and in his stuporous and helpless condition he was asphyxiated and died.” Mr. Tobias’s best friend, Patrick Bransome, said in a statement to police that he had not seen him go in a pool or swim in years. Mr. Bransome declined to comment.

A few weeks later, Mr. Ash called the police and told them that Mrs. Tobias had confessed to him and that he had a tape recording to prove it. Mr. Ash has a past: he has been arrested at least 11 times on charges ranging from larceny to prostitution; He has been called Mr. Madam because of a past connection he says he had to Heidi Fleiss, the Hollywood Madam. Investigators flew to Mr. Ash’s home in San Diego and spent a day interviewing him.

“She confessed to me on tape,” Mr. Ash, said in an interview. “I believe she absolutely did it.” He would not provide the tape, but expressed outrage that the case was not moving more quickly. “I’m the only one standing up for him. Who else in this whole crazy thing is looking out for him?”

The police in Jupiter appeared unimpressed with Mr. Ash’s allegations. “You can take it for what it is worth,” Sergeant Pascarella said.

Through her lawyers, Mrs. Tobias refused to comment for this article. In a recent interview with The Palm Beach Post, she said, “I’m broken. I haven’t gone out in six weeks. I’ve been in and out of the hospital. I just pray all day and wonder why people could be so evil.”

She said of Mr. Ash: “All those rumors are disgusting. He’s a very sick man who should be institutionalized.”
98 2007-12-04 A federal appeals panel ruled yesterday that a state-financed evangelical Christian program to help prisoners re-enter civilian life fostered religious indoctrination and violated the constitutional separation of church and state.

The decision by a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, in St. Louis, was the latest in a series of rulings over the last year to reinforce laws that bar government money from promoting religion, said Robert Tuttle, a law professor at George Washington University who is an expert on religion-based initiatives.

“The main thing it does is reaffirm the obligation of government not to fund programs that intermingle secular and religious content,” Professor Tuttle said of the new ruling. “The federal government has come to terms with that over the last year. Even when it has won cases, there hasn’t been a single decision that would allow the government to intertwine secular and religious content.”

The current case was filed more than four years ago by Americans United for Separation of Church and State against the InnerChange Freedom Initiative, an organization affiliated with the Prison Fellowship Ministries and the Iowa Corrections Department. Prison Fellowship Ministries was founded by Charles W. Colson, an ally of President Bush and an influential evangelical who went to prison for his role in the Watergate cover-up in the Nixon administration.

“The decision casts a long, deep shadow over faith-based programs in states, and even at the federal level,” said Barry W. Lynn, executive director of the church-state organization.
99 2007-12-04 The compromise establishes a combined standard for cars and light trucks, as opposed to the current system, while also shifting the structure of the rule from a simple average of all car models or all light truck models to an “attribute based” system.

That approach establishes an incentive to build every vehicle, whether a compact or a behemoth, to be as fuel efficient as possible. The standard would be set according to the vehicle’s “footprint,” its wheelbase and track width.

In the last few years, the Bush administration had vehemently opposed raising the car standard — which had not been changed since 1985 — unless it was given the authority to switch to the footprint system.

Light trucks were already on a footprint standard, and the Transportation Department was setting regular, if modest, increases in the standard. But a federal court threw these out last month as not being strict enough.

The White House on Monday said that the energy bill compromise agreed upon by Congressional leaders failed to satisfy President Bush on a number of points, including the way automobile mileage was measured and regulated.

Allan B. Hubbard, the director of the White House national economic council, said that Mr. Bush would veto the bill unless what he called “regulatory uncertainty and confusion” were removed by requiring the Environmental Protection Agency and the Transportation Department to settle on a single mileage-measuring system.

On another issue separate from the auto mileage rule, Mr. Hubbard said that Mr. Bush could not accept a mandate that electric utilities generate 15 percent of their power from renewable sources by 2020. At the same time, Mr. Hubbard complained that the bill’s provision for production of alternative fuels like ethanol do not go as far or as fast as the White House wants.

Even if the bill becomes law, the fuel-economy improvement that it calls for will probably not be great enough to prevent some increase in American fuel consumption because of the expected growth in the number of cars on the road and miles traveled.

In 2020, the combined total of gasoline and ethanol use would be slightly higher than it is today, according to David Friedman of the Union of Concerned Scientists, on whose calculations the Democratic leaders relied.

What that requirement would mean for car buyers is not completely clear. A much larger number of vehicles are likely to rely on hybrid power systems combining an internal combustion engine and an electric motor, while more fuel-efficient diesel engines would also proliferate. Plug-in hybrids, relying more on power from the electricity grid, are likely to be on the rise.

Mr. Friedman predicted that by 2020, when the higher standard is to be fully phased in, many more cars are likely to have automatic transmissions with more gears, or a continuously variable transmission, which would translate power from the engine to the wheels with less of a loss.

“The technology is there to increase mileage,” said Scott Gerber, a spokesman for Senator Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat who helped engineer the compromise. Many more small cars and hybrids will be built, Mr. Gerber added, but “you’re also going to have S.U.V.’s.”

“That market is not going to go away, because people like S.U.V.’s.”

At General Motors, Greg Martin, a spokesman, expressed concern about what the changes would do to vehicle prices.

“We have a product plan well under way that will offer more technology and alternative fuel choices now and in the future,” he said. “What is unclear, however, is the economic equation, or the price-value judgments, that consumers make in any vehicle purchase.”

At Environmental Defense, John DeCicco, a senior fellow, said: “I think of necessity we’re going to see a slowing down of the horsepower war. They’re going to have to take some of that efficiency going forward and allocate it to fuel economy.”

Among the unknowns, of course, is the price of the gasoline that will be saved. If the price is high, either because of market forces or increased taxes, government standards may only have a modest role in promoting smaller or higher-efficiency vehicles, because consumers will already be seeking out fuel efficiency and automakers will have a strong incentive to meet that demand on their own.

In the end, the biggest impact of the legislation would come from ending the distinction between cars and light trucks, which include S.U.V.’s, minivans and pickups, eliminating the incentive for companies to move customers into the generally bigger, more profitable S.U.V.’s. Current law sets a floor of 27.5 miles per gallon for cars and 22. 2 miles a gallon for light trucks.

The new system continues to count cars and trucks differently, but requires the government to make sure that the whole fleet reaches the 35 miles per gallon average. If it does not, the Transportation Department must make the car or light truck standard tougher.
100 2007-12-04 ¶We continue to assess with moderate-to-high confidence that Iran does not currently have a nuclear weapon.

¶Tehran’s decision to halt its nuclear weapons program suggests it is less determined to develop nuclear weapons than we have been judging since 2005. Our assessment that the program probably was halted primarily in response to international pressure suggests Iran may be more vulnerable to influence on the issue than we judged previously.

B. We continue to assess with low confidence that Iran probably has imported at least some weapons-usable fissile material, but still judge with moderate-to-high confidence it has not obtained enough for a nuclear weapon. We cannot rule out that Iran has acquired from abroad — or will acquire in the future — a nuclear weapon or enough fissile material for a weapon. Barring such acquisitions, if Iran wants to have nuclear weapons it would need to produce sufficient amounts of fissile material indigenously — which we judge with high confidence it has not yet done.

C. We assess centrifuge enrichment is how Iran probably could first produce enough fissile material for a weapon, if it decides to do so. Iran resumed its declared centrifuge enrichment activities in January 2006, despite the continued halt in the nuclear weapons program. Iran made significant progress in 2007 installing centrifuges at Natanz, but we judge with moderate confidence it still faces significant technical problems operating them.

¶We judge with moderate confidence that the earliest possible date Iran would be technically capable of producing enough HEU [highly enriched uranium] for a weapon is late 2009, but that this is very unlikely.

¶We judge with moderate confidence Iran probably would be technically capable of producing enough HEU for a weapon sometime during the 2010-2015 time frame. (INR [the State Department’s Bureau of Intelligence and Research] judges Iran is unlikely to achieve this capability before 2013 because of foreseeable technical and programmatic problems.) All agencies recognize the possibility that this capability may not be attained until after 2015.

D. Iranian entities are continuing to develop a range of technical capabilities that could be applied to producing nuclear weapons, if a decision is made to do so. For example, Iran’s civilian uranium enrichment program is continuing. We also assess with high confidence that since fall 2003, Iran has been conducting research and development projects with commercial and conventional military applications — some of which would also be of limited use for nuclear weapons.

E. We do not have sufficient intelligence to judge confidently whether Tehran is willing to maintain the halt of its nuclear weapons program indefinitely while it weighs its options, or whether it will or already has set specific deadlines or criteria that will prompt it to restart the program.

¶Our assessment that Iran halted the program in 2003 primarily in response to international pressure indicates Tehran’s decisions are guided by a cost-benefit approach rather than a rush to a weapon irrespective of the political, economic and military costs. This, in turn, suggests that some combination of threats of intensified international scrutiny and pressures, along with opportunities for Iran to achieve its security, prestige, and goals for regional influence in other ways, might — if perceived by Iran’s leaders as credible — prompt Tehran to extend the current halt to its nuclear weapons program. It is difficult to specify what such a combination might be.

¶We assess with moderate confidence that convincing the Iranian leadership to forgo the eventual development of nuclear weapons will be difficult given the linkage many within the leadership probably see between nuclear weapons development and Iran’s key national security and foreign policy objectives, and given Iran’s considerable effort from at least the late 1980s to 2003 to develop such weapons. In our judgment, only an Iranian political decision to abandon a nuclear weapons objective would plausibly keep Iran from eventually producing nuclear weapons — and such a decision is inherently reversible.

F. We assess with moderate confidence that Iran probably would use covert facilities — rather than its declared nuclear sites — for the production of highly enriched uranium for a weapon. A growing amount of intelligence indicates Iran was engaged in covert uranium conversion and uranium enrichment activity, but we judge that these efforts probably were halted in response to the fall 2003 halt, and that these efforts probably had not been restarted through at least mid-2007.

G. We judge with high confidence that Iran will not be technically capable of producing and reprocessing enough plutonium for a weapon before about 2015.

H. We assess with high confidence that Iran has the scientific, technical and industrial capacity eventually to produce nuclear weapons if it decides to do so.
101 2007-12-04 SAN ANTONIO, Dec. 3 (AP) — AT&T Inc. said on Monday that it would exit the rapidly shrinking pay phone business by the end of next year, before it becomes unprofitable.

AT&T will sell 65,000 pay phones, in prisons and in public places, in its original 13-state area before the end of 2008, a spokesman, Michael Coe, said.

The company decided to leave pay phones, a small part of its business, before they reached the point of being unprofitable, he said.

AT&T executives said they would try to sell as many of the pay phones to independent operators as possible; those left unsold will be removed.

“This business has been shrinking rapidly,” Mr. Coe said.

He added that the company had been phasing out pay phones by not renewing contracts as they have expired. “We’ve known for a while that we would exit,” Mr. Coe said.

The number of pay phones nationwide has shrunk to one million in the last decade from 2.6 million. AT&T had roughly 400,000 pay phones in 1998, but there has been a rapid decline in the business since then.

The BellSouth Corporation had exited the business before AT&T acquired it at the end of 2006, as has Qwest Communications International.
102 2007-12-04 Jackie Schiller, 26, a product manager, said that she had taken a business trip about once a week for the last two months for her employer, Vibes Media, a Chicago company that provides text-message-based marketing at events like concert tours, sports promotions and summer festivals.

Because her job usually takes her to cities along with a team of fellow workers, the idea of doubling up with a female colleague in expensive urban hotel rooms makes sense, she said. Ms. Schiller said she shared a room on about a third of her trips.

“I’ve kind of gotten used to it,” she said. Besides, she added, her job on the road usually requires working nights, meaning hotel rooms get scant use beyond a place to sleep. “Most times, we aren’t in the room that much; we’re at the event,” she added.

Usually, she bunks with the same co-worker. Still, she said, sharing rooms does require a degree of social accommodation. “I have my own apartment, my own way of doing things, so it’s bound to happen that you’re going to get on each other’s nerves after a while,” she said.

There is no doubt that hotel costs are rising for corporate travel, especially in big cities. In New York, for example, the average daily hotel rate is $318 this quarter, up 14 percent over last year’s fourth quarter, according to the Trendwatch report by Expedia. Hotel costs in other cities, while starting at a base line substantially lower than New York’s, have been rising at a sharper rate. In Memphis, for example, the average rate is $139 in the fourth quarter, up 36 percent, Expedia said.

Garret Meyer, 42, is a medical sales representative from Raleigh, N.C., who like Ms. Schiller did not participate in the Orbitz survey. He said that he was on the road two or three nights a week, and occasionally shared a hotel room, especially when at a conference in a major city like Washington, where hotel rates are high. His sales territory runs from Delaware through North Carolina.

“Obviously, bunking up with someone else cuts the cost in half,” he said. “I don’t necessarily mind it because I understand the reason for it. It would be more convenient not to, but it isn’t necessarily a problem. I’ve never run into a hitch.”

I’d like to hear from readers on their own business travel experiences if they’ve shared rooms. Horror stories accepted.

Another travel survey — this one on leisure travel — shows that there is limited tolerance for a different type of bunking up.

According to the annual Hospitality@Home survey by the travel booking site Hotels.com, 87 percent of respondents claim they strongly wish that some relatives planning to visit during the Christmas season would get a hotel room.

Homeowners anticipating visits by relatives estimated the value of their at-home food and board accommodations at about $149 a night — an increase of $18 over last year’s survey, Hotels.com said. (That increase is only slightly above the rise in hotel room costs.)

Clearly, Hotels.com has a motive for encouraging holiday travelers to book a hotel, but the survey seems reasonable enough to me. It was conducted in September by Harris Interactive on behalf of Hotels.com.

The category of relative least likely to elicit a response of “I wish they’d get a room” was grandparents, interestingly enough. Parents were next, followed by children. Dead last on that scale, slightly trailing aunts and uncles, were cousins.
103 2007-12-04 Shares fell yesterday, led by financial services stocks, on concerns that the economy’s expansion will erode amid troubles in the mortgage industry.

Last week, the Dow Jones industrial average made its biggest weekly point gain in more than four years, rising nearly 391 points, or 3.01 percent. But that advance proved short-lived after two Federal Reserve officials expressed concern yesterday about the subprime mortgage crisis and its impact on banks and brokerage firms.

Eric S. Rosengren, president of the Boston Fed, said in a speech that he was concerned that home foreclosures might worsen as overall economic growth slowed. Janet L. Yellen, president of the San Francisco Fed, called growth in the final three months of the year “only very meager,” and warned that housing problems could spill over into consumer spending.

Besides a flagging economy, investors appeared unsure about a government-sponsored rescue of the mortgage industry. Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. said in a speech that the White House was moving closer to an agreement to help thousands of homeowners avoid mortgage defaults by temporarily holding their interest rates steady.

Lincoln Anderson, chief investment officer and chief economist at LPL Financial Services in Boston, said investors were uncertain about where stocks would head after last week’s gains and were awaiting economic readings. The November employment report, due Friday, could indicate the direction of consumer spending, for example.
104 2007-12-04 The new chief executive of Merrill Lynch, John A. Thain, made his first big move at the brokerage firm yesterday by hiring his former finance chief at the New York Stock Exchange.

Mr. Thain named Nelson Chai of NYSE Euronext as Merrill’s chief financial officer. Mr. Chai, 42, will join Merrill next week.

He succeeds Jeffrey N. Edwards, who previously headed investment banking before becoming chief financial officer in 2005. Mr. Edwards will remain at Merrill in a role yet to be announced.

These moves are part of a management shake-up that began shortly after Merrill Lynch reported $7.9 billion in credit costs just three weeks after saying those costs would total only $4.5 billion.

Mr. Chai became chief financial officer of the exchange in January. He also held that post with Archipelago Holdings, which was acquired by the exchange, from 2000 to 2005.
105 2007-12-04 J. Richard Steffy, who made his living as an electrical contractor until he was 48, then cast security aside to pursue his passion, studying shipwrecks, and become a leading a expert in the field, died Thursday in Bryan, Tex. He was 83.

The cause was chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder, Jennifer Steffy, his daughter-in-law, said.

Mr. Steffy helped make shipwreck analysis a scientific discipline. Beginning at his dining-room table manipulating pieces of wood, he thought of new ways to reconstruct ancient boats and ships in three dimensions. He then added what he learned from historical archives to interpret partly preserved shipwrecks.

His enthusiasm, talent and scholarship would eventually make him a full professor at Texas A&M University, despite never having graduated from college. In 1985, he would win a “genius grant” from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation. His book, “Wooden Ship Building and the Interpretation of Shipwrecks,” (1994) became a standard in the field.

He pioneered the arcane art of examining wood fragments and myriad lumpish remains of amphora containers, and of reconstructing entire ships and cargoes — sometimes conceptually and sometimes in reality. He reveled in the mission.

“I like to think that shipbuilding was the most important early everyday technology,” he said in an interview with The New York Times in 1992. “The Greeks and Romans built big and beautiful temples, but I think there’s really nothing like a ship, their ships.”

Mr. Steffy set sail on his personal voyage in 1963, when he wrote a letter to George Bass, an underwater archaeologist, about an article Dr. Bass had written in National Geographic about a shipwreck in Turkey. Mr. Steffy asked if he could build a model to help in the research, specifying that he meant a serious scientific representation, not a model for a mantelpiece.
106 2007-12-04 Mr. Westerfield is predicting that ad spending in this country will show 2.6 percent growth in 2007 over 2006, rather than 3.4 percent as he had previously forecast. For 2008, he is estimating a gain of 3.6 percent from this year, compared with the 4.3 percent he had formerly predicted.

Two other well-regarded forecasters reduced their estimates for American ad spending growth yesterday at the opening session of the 35th annual global media and communications conference sponsored by UBS.

Robert J. Coen, senior vice president and director for forecasting at Universal McCann, reduced for a third time his prediction for ad spending growth this year, compared with 2006.

Mr. Coen, whose agency is owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies, is now calling for a slim gain in 2007 of 0.7 percent, to $283.9 billion, compared with previous predictions for gains of 3.1 percent, made last June; 4.8 percent, made in December 2006; and 5.8 percent, made in June 2006.

The standout medium by far, in Mr. Coen’s forecast, is the Internet, where ad spending this year will rise 20 percent from 2006. By comparison, he estimated there would be declines this year in ad spending for media like local newspapers, down 8 percent; national syndicated television, down 8 percent; and local radio, down 6 percent.

An increase this year of 0.7 percent in total American ad spending would represent the smallest yearly gain since the industry recovered from its 2001 recession. Those increases have ranged from 2.4 percent in 2002 to 7.4 percent in 2004; the increase in 2006 from 2005 was 3.9 percent.

An increase of 0.7 percent would also mean that ad spending as a percentage of American gross domestic product would decline in 2007 to a weak 2.05 percent, from 2.14 percent in 2006.

Still, “we don’t think there will be a recession” for Madison Avenue, Mr. Coen said in his presentation. “But advertising is being crunched down.”

He is also crunching his forecast for next year. Last June, Mr. Coen predicted American ad spending in 2008 would be 5 percent higher than in 2007. Yesterday, he revised his estimate downward to an increase of 3.7 percent, to $294.4 billion, which would represent an anemic 2.04 percent of the gross domestic product expected for next year.

Again, the standout medium for ad growth will be the Internet, Mr. Coen predicted, up 16.5 percent from 2007. In contrast, national newspapers will fall 1 percent, he estimated, and local radio will be flat with this year.

“We don’t see a great deal of improvement immediately ahead,” Mr. Coen said, which “doesn’t make me very optimistic about 2008.”

“On the other hand,” he added, “there are the elections and the Olympics.”

The Summer Games will stimulate demand for advertising space and time not only in the United States but in scores of other countries as well.

“People are underestimating the potential” gains for ad spending that will result from the Olympics, said David F. Poltrack, chief research officer at the CBS Corporation, who also made a presentation at the conference yesterday.

The Olympics benefit the medium of television not only by “generating incremental dollars,” Mr. Poltrack said, but also by “taking inventory out of the market,” thus tightening the supply of commercial time across the medium.

The decision to hold the Olympics for the first time in China — where ad spending growth rates are among the most robust of any nation — is expected to amplify demand further, as marketers based in Europe and North America seek to familiarize the Chinese with their brands and the marketers based in China play to a global audience.

Steve King, worldwide chief executive at ZenithOptimedia, a media agency that is part of the Publicis Groupe, referred in his presentation to the boost from the Games — along with the robust American political spending in a year in which a president is elected — as “the quadrennial effect.”

The Olympics will pump an additional $3 billion into the world’s advertising economy next year, Mr. King forecast, compared with an additional $1 billion in ad spending he expects from a popular European soccer tournament, called Euro 2008.

“Take out the quadrennial effect,” Mr. King said, “and ’08 growth would be close to ’07.”

For 2008, Mr. King is predicting an increase in worldwide ad spending of 6.7 percent from 2007, bigger than the 5.3 percent gain he is forecasting for this year compared with 2006.

In the United States, the growth in ad spending next year will lag behind the rest of the world, Mr. King said, increasing 4.1 percent from 2007. (That estimate includes $2 billion in spending for political ads.)

Mr. King, like Mr. Coen and Mr. Westerfield, trimmed his prediction for American growth in 2007 compared with his previous estimates. Mr. King is now calling for a gain of 2.5 percent from 2006; his previous forecasts were for increases of 3.7 percent, made last summer, and 4.2 percent, made last fall.

“It’s quite a strong markdown from our forecast a year ago,” Mr. King said, adding. “The housing downturn and the credit squeeze are definitely having an impact in the short term.”

Again, the Internet is the bright spot for American media performance in Mr. King’s data as well as Mr. Coen’s. Mr. King said he expected online ad revenue to climb 29 percent in 2007 from 2006, and an additional 19 percent in 2008 from 2007.

Mr. Coen acknowledged the quadrennial effect in his forecasts for ad spending overseas, which are more bullish than his predictions for the domestic market.

“There is a better outlook in other parts of the world than we see in the United States,” Mr. Coen said, particularly in countries like Argentina, Brazil, China, India, Poland and Russia.

For 2007, ad spending outside the United States is expected to grow 5.7 percent from 2006, to $341.4 billion, Mr. Coen said. For 2008, ad spending overseas will increase 5.3 percent from 2007, he added, to $359.5 billion.

Mr. Coen’s totals for worldwide ad spending for 2007 are $625.3 billion, up 3.4 percent from 2006, and $653.9 billion for 2008, up 4.6 percent from 2007.
107 2007-12-04 For someone who is elderly, a broken hip can be the beginning of the end. With the loss of mobility that so often results, serious illness and death can follow.

Now researchers say they have identified 11 indicators that can at least let doctors and families know which women are at the greatest risk and take steps that might reduce it.

The findings appear in the current Journal of the American Medical Association. There is also a risk calculator families can use at hipcalculator.fhcrc.org.

The researchers, led by Dr. John Robbins of the University of California, Davis, based their findings on a study of more than 60,000 postmenopausal women. The results may well apply to men, but there is no way to be sure, Dr. Robbins said.

Among the indicators of hip fracture likelihood is a woman’s health, her height and weight, her level of physical activity, if her parents had hip fractures and if she has had fractures herself since age 54.

Some risks, like those brought on by smoking or using medicines with steroids, may be reduced — but only some.
108 2007-12-04 HELP FOR HOMEOWNERS Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. said he hoped to reach agreement this week with lenders and institutional investors on a plan to temporarily freeze the teaser rates for certain qualified mortgage borrowers. But industry...
109 2007-12-05 Treating depression prolongs the lives of some people with diabetes....
110 2007-12-05 Curt Schilling, Red Sox pitcher and John McCain booster, joined the candidate on the campaign trail in New Hampshire....
111 2007-12-05 A junk-food diet costs far less than a healthful one, according to a new study....
112 2007-12-05 With this week's report that a hedge fund manager has set a new record for buying the most expensive co-op in New York, it is small wonder that people in that profession don't get a lot of pity these days. But in one way, at least, hedge fund boss...
113 2007-12-05 The so-called parity in college football and basketball is nothing compared to the tight competition at the top of the men's N.C.A.A. soccer tournament....
114 2007-12-05 The Democratic candidate offers proposals that would offer incentives and rewards for those who volunteer....
115 2007-12-05 I've been working in the newsroom for the last few months. On the surface, there's not much that distinguishes the modern journalist from the modern software developer. Gone are the days of grizzled hacks grousing into phones and banging out copy ...
116 2007-12-05 Against a steady drumbeat of bad news from the housing and credit markets, many Americans are starting to wonder whether the economy is about to topple over into recession. Depending on where you live, it might already have. State-by-state indexes...
117 2007-12-05 Boats heading to Jumbo. Photos by Joyce Hor-Chung Lau The Jumbo Floating Restaurant may be a big, tacky, shameless tourist trap, but what a great tourist trap! This ridiculously ornate boat has been lighting up Aberdeen Harbor and dishing out dim ...
118 2007-12-05 (Greg Kadel) We met photographer Terry Richardson recently when we were on a photo shoot for ID magazine. Terry has always fascinated us because he seems to have a total disregard for any kind of formula. He does what he does, playing by his own r...
119 2007-12-05 Michelle Ryan, left, stars as Jaime Sommers in NBC's "Bionic Woman." Isaiah Washington played Antonio Pope in a five-episode story arc this fall. (Carol Segal/NBC) What went wrong for "Bionic Woman?" Before its debut on NBC, the remake of the 1970...
120 2007-12-05 In a federal court action, the Securities and Exchange Commission charged that a Michigan hedge fund manager told investors that one of its funds had $2.1 million in assets, when the fund was down to only $200,000. And even after the fund, managed...
121 2007-12-05 Milberg Weiss can't seem to shake the shadow of its criminal probe. In an order rejecting a class action settlement in a securities case, San Francisco Chief District Judge Vaughn Walker ripped the firm for asking for too much money. He also cited...
122 2007-12-05 Like her brother Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae, the mortgage finance company, said Tuesday that it would sell $7 billion of preferred stock and cut its dividend 30 percent to shore up its capital base through 2008 as the housing slump worsens. The Fanni...
123 2007-12-05 In the latest case of pillow talk leading to a jail time, a former financial analyst at Morgan Stanley and her husband, a former hedge fund analyst at ING, were each sentenced yesterday to a year and half in prison for insider trading. But in an u...
124 2007-12-05 The beer and spirits industries are built on consumer loyalty to brand names, but aside from a few successful brands like Yellow Tail and Santa Margherita, wine consumers buy for different reasons, like price.

“When the price of your favorite Pouilly-Fuissé goes up you go to a different Mâcon,” said Gary Vaynerchuk, director of operations at Wine Library, a big retail store in Springfield, N.J. “The culture actually induces you to go out and try other things.” With the holiday season accounting for an enormous percentage of annual wine sales, importers and distributors have been especially loath to raise prices significantly at this point in the year. But that’s likely to change in 2008.

“They’ve held back because they haven’t wanted to lose market share,” said Mr. Wesson, who is now A&P’s senior director for beer, wine and spirits.

“That’s good and wise of them,” he said, “because there’s so much product out there and very little loyalty. But almost to a man and woman in the wine business, that ability to hold back price increases has to come to an end, because no one anticipated the dollar would be as weak as it has become.”

How high might prices go? Bill Deutsch, chairman of W. J. Deutsch & Sons, which imports wines ranging from Georges Duboeuf to high-end Bordeaux like Château Léoville Barton, estimated that wines tied to the euro would increase in price by 10, 20 or even 30 percent.

“I think the prices that consumers have seen these past couple of years will be a fond memory in about three to five months,” he said.

Price rises, of course, are nothing new to wine consumers. The price of Bordeaux shoots up when critics laud a particular vintage, as they did the vintages of 2000, 2003 and 2005. In between they may come down, but rarely to pre-hype levels. Prices for Champagne and Burgundy have never been as high as they are now. But those sorts of increases result more from higher demand than from currency values.

Domestically, prices for Napa cabernets have climbed steadily, as has the price of pinot noir, simply because consumer demand is so great. In fact, California vintners are so desperate for pinot noir that they are now turning to other countries for wine, which they bottle in California.

“We see bulk shipments coming in like crazy from southern France and everywhere that were previously all California,” said Eileen Fredrikson of Gomberg, Fredrikson & Associates, a wine industry analyst in California. “They need it, and they can’t get it anywhere.”

This use of European imports may raise the domestic price of pinot noir, which is already high because of the demand, but in the near future many other California wines may be seen as better values, especially in relation to European wines and those from Australia and New Zealand, which have also been buffeted by the fall of the dollar.

“This will be an enormous opportunity for California,” Mr. Vaynerchuk of Wine Library said. “All of a sudden a $7 Bogle to some people will seem attractive.”

Of course, the American wine industry has problems too. The price of labor has climbed, and the rising price of oil affects the cost of transportation in the United States as well as in Europe, although shipping costs add more to the cost of a European wine.

Producers of moderately priced European wines who depend on the American market will most likely be hurt once retail prices are increased in the United States. Looking ahead to that moment, David Bowler, a small importer and distributor in New York, said, “It’s definitely painful in areas like Pouilly-Fuissé and Loire Valley reds, which are not so popular to begin with.”

Bigger companies with more financial wherewithal may be a little more cushioned. Mr. Deutsch, the importer of Yellow Tail, said his partner in Australia, Casella Wines, hedged its bets with currency purchases, so its prices will remain stable for the near future.

Mr. Deutsch, who has been in the business for 47 years, said the only time he could remember similar pressures on wine prices was in the mid-1980s, when the dollar was also weak. But sales were affected only briefly.

When wholesale wine prices rise, prices in restaurants can be expected to rise as well, though a bit of a lag may occur as restaurants sell off wine they bought when the dollar was stronger.

Ronn Weigand, publisher of Restaurant Wine, an industry newsletter, said that restaurants were already stocking up on wines that would offer better value to consumers.

“The little wines of Portugal, of France and Italy, and especially the wines of Spain,” Mr. Weigand said. “I’m sensing nervousness not just about the economy but about the political situation worldwide.”

Not everybody is mired in pessimism. Adam Strum, the editor and publisher of Wine Enthusiast Magazine, said he believes that wine is a better value today than ever before, because improvements in winemaking techniques and an increase in competition have kept prices fair.

“The leap in quality that’s being delivered in wine, and the competition — those two factors offset the decline of the dollar,” he said.

Meanwhile, those who don’t want to pay higher prices might consider building up a supply now, or looking for values elsewhere. One possible place to turn is Argentina, which is among the few winemaking countries whose currencies have lost ground against the dollar. Portugal continues to be a source of great values. Eastern Europe is rapidly rebuilding its wine industries, and wines from Slovenia, Hungary and the Czech Republic may be good values even if they are tied to the euro.

So may less celebrated areas of France, Italy and Spain, like Campania and Sicily, lesser areas near the Loire and the Rhone Valley or unknown Languedoc wines like picpoul.

“This is a sommelier’s dream,” Mr. Wesson said. “They won’t have to try so hard to convince anybody to try picpoul. I would be going long on picpoul.”
125 2007-12-05 “We have enough stocks in the market,” Abdalla Salem el-Badri, OPEC’s secretary-general, told reporters in Abu Dhabi, where the organization was meeting. “There is no reason for the price of oil to go to $100 a barrel.”

Prices have risen 44 percent in the past year. Last month, they reached a high of $99.29 a barrel. Crude oil for January delivery initially gained more than $2 after the OPEC announcement today, rising above $90, but fell back later in the day after the United States Energy Department reported that domestic fuel stockpiles rose last week. Oil closed at $87.46 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, down 86 cents.

Today’s decision means OPEC remains concerned about a potential slowdown in economic activity that could pare the demand for oil and push prices down. It also signals that the oil cartel does not want to see oil prices fall back to $50 a barrel, as they did in January, nor does it want prices at $100 a barrel.

Since 2000, OPEC’s policy has been to fine-tune its supplies to track closely with oil demand but without allowing oil companies and refiners to build too many oil inventories. That policy of careful management has helped the cartel raise prices since the oil collapse of the late 1990s.

Over the last year, OPEC has pared down its production in a bid to push down the level of commercial oil stocks held in developed nations. Saudi Arabia, OPEC’s top producer, in particular was concerned about higher-than-average oil stock levels and helped engineer a pair of production cuts totaling 1.7 million barrels a day.

While OPEC’s real production only dropped by about 1 million barrels a day after the cuts, the strategy succeeded in forcing refiners to draw on their inventories. Between October 2006 and October 2007, the total oil and product stocks in the United States, Europe and Japan fell by 138 million barrels, according to Lawrence Goldstein, an economist at the Energy Policy Research Foundation.

But the strategy also contributed to a sharp spike in oil prices, which went from $50 a barrel in January to nearly $100 a barrel last month. OPEC tried to correct its aim in September by increasing supplies by 500,000 barrels a day, but the new supplies had only a limited effect on prices.

“They have fully achieved their objective,” Mr. Goldstein said. “In fact they have more than succeeded. The current levels are making them uncomfortable.”

The jump in prices seemed to frustrate oil producers, who have been trying to toe a delicate line in recent months.

OPEC is not insensitive to higher oil prices, which can lead to lower demand for oil. But the group was facing a difficult decision today given fears that the American economy might be slowing down. In that context, adding more oil in the market might have pushed down prices far below the group’s comfort level.

Last week, oil prices had dropped more than 10 percent, their steepest weekly decline in more than two years.

As a group, OPEC’s 13 members account for 40 percent of the world’s daily oil exports, making them the only producers capable of raising their output in a meaningful manner. Together, they now have about 2.5 million barrels a day of spare capacity, according to analyst estimates, mostly in Saudi Arabia.

The group’s final statement expressed OPEC’s concerns with market speculation that has driven up prices. Specifically, it blamed “a heavy influx of financial funds into commodities and speculative activity in the markets” for contributing to higher volatility.

The effect of speculation on commodity prices is also becoming a concern in the United States. A powerful Congressional committee said today that it would be holding hearings on that topic next week in Washington.

The group said that given the need for “extreme vigilance” in managing the oil market in coming months, it would meet again on Feb. 1, ahead of a scheduled meeting in early March.

In addition to the discussion about winter supplies, today’s OPEC meeting also tended to some housekeeping matters. The group’s two newest members — Angola and Ecuador — were each assigned a production quota to regulate their production in the future. The quotas are 1.9 million barrels and 520,000 barrels a day, respectively.

Angola currently pumps around 1.8 million barrels a day and plans to lift its output to 2 million barrels a day next year 2008. Ecuador produces about 500,000 barrels a day.
126 2007-12-05 Stocks rose sharply today, erasing two days of declines, after investors cheered a surprisingly strong report on employment. But the Federal Reserve may face a more complicated landscape as it considers whether to cut interest rates again next week.

Private payrolls grew by 189,000 jobs in November, far more than analysts had expected, according to Automatic Data Processing, an independent company. While the report is considered less important than the Labor Department’s measure of job growth, which will be released on Friday, the strong number took many market watchers by surprise.

“That came out of left field, huh?” said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at the research firm MFR. “It’s not a dead lock that we’re going to get a good payroll number, but it certainly caused me to raise my estimates.”

Investors agreed, sending the Dow Jones industrials up almost 200 points as market watchers took the employment report as a rare spot of good news for the ailing economy. The Dow closed at 13,444.96, a gain of 196.23, or 1.5 percent. The broader Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index was up similarly, to 1,485.01, a gain of 22.22.

A separate report this morning showed that American workers were more efficient in the third quarter, even as salary growth slowed.
127 2007-12-05 A federal judge has dismissed all but one charge in a lawsuit, filed last year by a supermarket mogul who hopes to be the next mayor of New York City, that challenged two Long Island Indian tribes over their longstanding practice of selling tax-free cigarettes from reservation smoke shops.

John A. Catsimatidis, whose holdings include the Gristedes supermarket chain, claimed in the suit that the two tribes illegally undercut his business, and he sought to force Indian retailers to buy cigarettes from wholesalers at the taxed price. He also asked for $20 million from the two tribes’ cigarette retailers, the amount he claims he has lost.

Leaders from the tribes, the Shinnecock and Unkechaug Indian nations, responded by moving to have the claims dismissed.

In a decision rendered on Friday and announced yesterday, Judge Carol Bagley Amon of Federal District Court in Brooklyn dismissed the claim that the non-tax sales “created, fostered and nourished a thriving black market in illegally discounted cigarette sales” and also dismissed charges of corrupt business dealings and unfair competition.

Harry Wallace, chief of the Unkechaug nation and a lawyer who owns a smoke shop on a reservation in Mastic, said yesterday that his tribe was pleased with the ruling.

But Judge Amon did not dismiss the entire suit, finding that advertisements calling the cigarettes tax-free were misleading because cigarette sales are not actually tax-free under state law, and that they were “likely to mislead the consumer into believing that he or she need not pay taxes on purchased cigarettes.”

Mr. Catsimatidis said he would persevere with the suit. “Everyone has to pay their taxes, and Indians must charge tax on cigarettes when they sell to non-Indians,” he said.
128 2007-12-05 OTTAWA, Dec. 4 — Karlheinz Schreiber, a former West German intelligence officer, lobbyist, arms dealer and political fund-raiser, used a parliamentary committee hearing Tuesday to both insult and support his onetime ally, former Prime Minister Brian Mulroney.

The House of Commons ethics committee summoned Mr. Schreiber, a German-Canadian citizen, in handcuffs from a jail where he was awaiting extradition to Germany on charges of tax evasion, fraud and bribery. It wanted an explanation for why, beginning in 1993, he paid Mr. Mulroney 300,000 Canadian dollars, then about $220,600, in cash at a series of hotel-room meetings.

Mr. Mulroney, a Conservative, has acknowledged the payments, but has said they were for helping Mr. Schreiber set up a pasta business in Ontario and an armored vehicle factory in Quebec, neither of which materialized. Mr. Mulroney is also expected to testify before the committee.

While Mr. Schreiber confirmed that he wanted Mr. Mulroney to help with the military vehicle project, he rejected the pasta business explanation, as well as widespread suggestions that the payments were related to the purchase of Airbus jets by Air Canada during Mr. Mulroney’s tenure, a sale Mr. Schreiber helped to broker.

“I received great laughs when this story came up that Brian Mulroney was involved with Airbus,” Mr. Schreiber said. “Somebody told me that Air Canada is Liberal property.”
129 2007-12-05 LONDON, Dec. 4 — Nokia, the telecommunications company, and the Universal Music Group, the recording company, said on Tuesday that they would offer unlimited free downloads of Universal songs to buyers of certain Nokia phones as a way to promote cellphones as media devices and to develop new revenue for a music industry struggling with piracy.

Under the agreement, Universal will let users download its entire catalog at no cost for 12 months, and keep the songs at the end of that time. Users will be able to download the songs to new Nokia phones or to their computers via mobile or fixed-line broadband connections.

For Nokia, the announcement is a step toward its goal of becoming an Internet company like Google. The service will operate through an online music store that Nokia started last month, establishing the company as a rival to iTunes from Apple and to the music download and subscription services run by mobile network operators.

Universal, meanwhile, will get a portion of revenue from sales of the phones.

Despite a proliferation of digital business models, including subscriptions, paid downloads and free music services supported by advertising, the music industry has not come up with a solution to online piracy.

“It’s one thing to have people downloading free music illegally,” said Mark Mulligan, an analyst at Jupiter Research. “What is bold and strategically important about this is that they are tacitly accepting that they will never get digital youth to pay for music.”
130 2007-12-05 The drug maker Merck yesterday offered profit forecasts for this year and next that fell short of Wall Street expectations, sending its shares lower.

Less than a month ago, Merck announced it would pay $4.85 billion to settle tens of thousands of lawsuits stemming from its painkiller Vioxx, which it withdrew from the market in 2004. Since then, Merck’s stock has risen, trading in recent days near its 52-week high of $60.49.

Yesterday, Merck shares fell 38 cents, to $58.39, after trading as low as $56.56.

Merck said that while it expected higher sales of its cancer-fighting vaccine Gardasil, its diabetes treatment Januvia and its allergy treatment Singulair next year, generic competition would drive down sales of another top seller, Fosamax, an osteoporosis treatment.

Merck also said it would take a pretax charge of $670 million this year for the expected resolution of federal and state investigations into past marketing practices, which were first disclosed in 2002.

A cost-cutting plan announced in 2005 is on track, the company said. Merck, which has already cut about 6,000 jobs under the plan, said yesterday that it would reach its target of eliminating 7,000 positions by the end of 2008.
131 2007-12-05 A former financial analyst at Morgan Stanley and her husband, a former hedge fund analyst at ING, were each sentenced yesterday to a year and half in prison for insider trading.

But in an unusual twist, Judge Colleen McMahon of United States District Court in Manhattan sentenced the former analyst, Jennifer Wang, and her husband, Ruben Chen, to serve their sentences one after the other so their infant son would have one parent with him for the three years.

Judge McMahon rejected a plea by one defense lawyer not to send Ms. Wang to jail so she could be with her son.

The judge said she would not let Mr. Chen “take the fall for both.”

“Ms. Wang, you are not less culpable. You are more culpable. You are the thief,” Judge McMahon said. “You have done this to your son.”

The judge, however, sentenced them so that Ms. Wang would report to prison after Mr. Chen was released and their son had turned 2. She also ordered them to forfeit about $611,000.

Ms. Wang and Mr. Chen, of Englishtown, N.J., pleaded guilty to conspiracy and insider trading charges in September.
132 2007-12-05 Federal regulators yesterday denied a request by Verizon Communications to let it charge rival carriers higher rates to get access to lines in six East Coast markets.

The Federal Communications Commission said it rejected the petition in a unanimous vote because Verizon had not shown that it faced enough competition to warrant exemptions.

Verizon asked the agency last year to free it from limits on rates it can charge rivals for access to residential lines in cities like Boston, New York and Philadelphia. The markets included Providence, R.I., and Virginia Beach. Verizon rivals like the Sprint Nextel Corporation and XO Holdings opposed the exemptions.
133 2007-12-05 DETROIT, Dec. 4 (AP) — The Dow Chemical Company announced Tuesday that it was cutting 1,000 jobs, or about 2.3 percent of its work force, as part of a plan to rid itself of underperforming businesses and increase efficiency.

The company, which is based in Midland, Mich., is one of the country’s biggest chemical makers. It said it would exit the automotive sealers business within 9 to 18 months in North America, Asia and Latin America.

Other cutbacks include idling a styrene plant in Camacari, Brazil, on Jan. 1 and closing a cellulose manufacturing plant in Aratu, Brazil, in the first quarter.
134 2007-12-05 Dell Inc., the personal computer maker, said yesterday that it would resume its stock-buyback program with a $10 billion repurchase, the first since it restated four years of earnings.

The announcement came before Dell’s annual meeting yesterday, where the chief executive, Michael S. Dell, faced shareholders for the first time since retaking the top job in January. The buybacks will begin this week, the company said.

“This is a significant event, especially for a company that’s lost about 25 percent of its market value since October,” said David Garrity, director of research at Dinosaur Securities.

Dell had promised to resume the repurchase program after completing an internal accounting investigation and restating four years of results. It suspended buybacks, which can bolster the value of remaining shares, during the inquiry.
135 2007-12-05 Fannie Mae, the mortgage finance company, said yesterday that it would sell $7 billion of preferred stock and cut its dividend 30 percent to shore up its capital base through 2008 as the housing slump worsens.

Fannie Mae also warned that soaring credit-related expenses would hurt fourth-quarter earnings, while further declines in home prices would probably dent 2008 results.

The Fannie Mae stock sale this month would follow the November issuance of a record $6 billion in preferred shares by Freddie Mac, the other housing-related government-sponsored enterprise, to prepare for credit losses and maintain its ability to purchase and guarantee mortgages.

“Fannie Mae has a responsibility to serve the mortgage market in good times and in times like these,” the chief executive, Daniel H. Mudd, said. “The steps we are taking today are designed to enable us to meet that responsibility.”

Fannie Mae would take advantage of improved conditions for financial institutions seeking access to capital, the company treasurer, David Benson, said in the company statement.
136 2007-12-05 MORE than 100 million iPods have been sold since they were introduced in 2001, and with all those players there have been thousands of accessories jostling for attention too. Shopping for them can take a little research.

There is one important thing to remember when selecting this gear: make sure you know which iPod model you’re shopping for, because more than a dozen have been released. Some video cables, for example, may not work with the newest iPods, or a certain case may fit only a certain model. It’s like buying pants for someone without knowing the person’s waist size.

If you are shopping online, finding the right accessories is not hard. Most major online stores group their goods by iPod model, so one click usually takes you to a page of compatible products. Apple’s online store (store.apple.com) displays a list of iPod models that work with each item offered.

PROTECTING THE IPOD At first, an iPod case may sound like a gift with all the pizazz of tube socks from Mom. But a good case can protect the screen from scratches and its body from the dings of everyday life. The sheer number of styles and materials to choose from lets you match a case to the owner’s personality. (But if the notion of cotton footwear appeals to you, search for “iPod Socks” in Apple’s online store to see a $29 six-pack of stretchy, colored coverings.)

For a tighter fit, iSkin (iskin.com) offers bright silicone cases for most iPod models that shield the device from shocks, moisture and scratches. Prices vary, depending on the model, but cases for the iPod Touch and Nano cost around $30. The similar iSkin Revo case for the iPhone sells for $40, and besides covering the handset’s surface, the Revo includes antimicrobial material embedded in its silicone surface to inhibit germs.
137 2007-12-05 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
138 2007-12-05 1. Heat oil with 1 tablespoon butter in a 3-quart saucepan. When butter melts, add onion and sauté until translucent, about 3 minutes. Add bulgur and allspice, and sauté for 2 minutes longer.

2. Stir in the broth or water, the chestnuts and the raisins, and bring to a vigorous boil. Reduce heat to low, cover, and let cook until bulgur is tender, all liquid is absorbed and there appear to be holes or “eyes” in the surface of the bulgur, about 15 to 20 minutes.

3. Turn off heat, place a clean dish towel or paper towel between top of pot and lid, and let stand for 5 to 10 minutes longer.

4. Meanwhile, melt remaining butter in a small skillet. When white foam falls to bottom of pan and starts to smell nutty (about 3 minutes), add zest and red pepper. Cook for 30 seconds longer, then turn off heat.

5. To serve, mound pilaf onto a platter and drizzle butter and red pepper mixture on top. Sprinkle with cinnamon. Garnish with dill.
139 2007-12-05 CALMING A FLORIDA FUND  Top Florida officials moved to stabilize an investment pool for local governments, and begin allowing some withdrawals, after a multibillion-dollar run on the fund prompted the state to temporarily suspend withdrawals by ci...
140 2007-12-06 (Greg Kadel) When we were asked to be a part of this blog and interview some of the people who have been of inspiration to us, Chloë Sevigny was at the top of our list. Chloë seems to be able to use fashion as a form of self expression while som...
141 2007-12-06 • What Goes Around…Comes Around

Track from: Every Second Counts

• Say It Right

• What Goes Around...Comes Around

Category 7 - Best Pop Performance By A Duo Or Group With Vocals

• (You Want To) Make A Memory

Track from: It Won't Be Soon Before Long

Track from: Every Second Counts

• Gone Gone Gone (Done Moved On)

• Give It To Me

Track from: At The Movies

• It Won't Be Soon Before Long

• Do It Again

Track from: We Are The Night

• LoveStoned/I Think She Knows

• We Are The Night

Category 16 - Best Rock Performance By A Duo Or Group With Vocals

• It's Not Over

Track from: Instant Karma - The Campaign To Save Darfur

Track from: All The Right Reasons Special Edition

Track from: Instant Karma - The Campaign To Save Darfur

Track from: An Ocean Between Us

Track from: Give Me Your Soul...Please

Track from: We All Love Ennio Morricone

• Always With Me, Always With You

• Once Upon A Time In The West

Track from: We All Love Ennio Morricone

• It's Not Over

• When I See You

• If I Have My Way

• Because Of You

Category 25 - Best R&B Performance By A Duo Or Group With Vocals

Track from: Walk A Mile In My Shoes

Track from: In My Songs

Track from: This Is Love

Track from: This Is Ryan Shaw

• That's The Way Of The World

Track from: Interpretations: Celebrating The Music Of Earth, Wind & Fire

Track from: Interpretations: Celebrating The Music Of Earth, Wind & Fire

Track from: For Lovers, Dreamers & Me

• Just Like You

• Because Of You

• Show Me What You Got

Category 32 - Best Rap Performance By A Duo Or Group

Track from: Me, Myself & I

• Better Than I've Ever Been

• Let It Go

Track from: Just Like You

• Can't Tell Me Nothing

Track from: A Hundred Miles Or More: A Collection

• Nothin' Better To Do

• Heaven, Heartache And The Power Of Love

Track from: Like Red On A Rose

Track from: Let It Go

Track from: It Just Comes Natural

Track from: Love, Pain & The Whole Crazy Thing

Category 38 - Best Country Performance By A Duo Or Group With Vocals

• Proud Of The House We Built

• Because Of You

Track from: Let It Go

Track from: Last Of The Breed

Track from: When At Last

Track from: It Just Comes Natural

Track from: Let It Go

Track from: Let It Go

• Let It Go

• It Just Comes Natural

• On The Other Side

Track from: A Tale Of God's Will (A Requiem For Katrina)

Track from: Kids: Live At Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola (Joe Lovano and Hank Jones)

• A Tale Of God's Will (A Requiem For Katrina)

Track from: The Altar And The Door

Track from: Live - One Last Time

• He Set My Life To Music

Track from: She Was Country When Country Wasn't Cool - A Tribute To Barbara Mandrell

Track from: Live - One Last Time

Track from: The Altar And The Door

Track from: The Grand Finale: Encourage Yourself

• HIStory: Our Place In His Story

• The Altar And The Door

• Alone But Not Alone

• Esta Tierra Es Tuya (This Land Is Your Land)

• Before The Next Teardrop Falls

• Pinetop Perkins On The 88's - Live In Chicago

• 10 Days Out: Blues From The Backroads

• Last Of The Great Mississippi Delta Bluesmen: Live In Dallas

• The Scene Of The Crime

• Try Me One More Time

• Let Us Now Praise Sleepy John

• My Name Is Buddy

• The Ballad Of Old Times

• Ka Hikina O Ka Hau (The Coming Of The Snow)

• The End Of An American Dream

• When The Soul Is Settled: Music Of Iraq

• Singing For Life: Songs Of Hope, Healing, And HIV/AIDS In Uganda

Walter Ostanek And His Band & Brian Sklar And The Western Senators

• The Velveteen Rabbit - Love Can Make You Real

• Making The Heart Whole Again: Stories For A Wounded World

• The One And Only Shrek

• Who's Got Game? The Ant Or The Grasshopper? The Lion Or The Mouse? Poppy Or The Snake?

• The Audacity Of Hope: Thoughts On Reclaiming The American Dream

• Giving: How Each Of Us Can Change The World

• Things I Overheard While Talking To Myself

Category 82 - Best Compilation Soundtrack Album For Motion Picture, Television Or Other Visual Media

Category 83 - Best Score Soundtrack Album For Motion Picture, Television Or Other Visual Media

Category 84 - Best Song Written For Motion Picture, Television Or Other Visual Media

• Guaranteed (From Into The Wild)

Track from: Into The Wild

• Love You I Do (From Dreamgirls)

• The Song Of The Heart (From Happy Feet)

• You Know My Name (From Casino Royale)

• I Knew Her (From Notes On A Scandal)

Track from: The One And Only Maynard Ferguson

• Black Is The Color Of My True Love's Hair

• In The Wee Small Hours Of The Morning

Track from: A Day Like This

• A Fever You Can't Sweat Out - Limited Edition Collectible Deluxe Box

• What It Is!: Funky Soul And Rare Grooves (1967-1977)

• Off The Record: The Complete 1923 Jazz Band Recordings

• Love Is The Song We Sing: San Francisco Nuggets 1965-1970

• Five Score And Seven Years Ago (Relient K) (A)

• Wincing The Night Away (The Shins) (A)

• It Won't Be Soon Before Long (Maroon 5) (A)

• You Know I'm No Good (Amy Winehouse) (T)

• Give It To Me (Timbaland Featuring Nelly Furtado & Justin Timberlake) (T)

• The Way I Are (Timbaland Featuring Keri Hilson & D.O.E.) (S)

Track from: Bring The Noise/Give It Up EP

• At War With The Mystics 5.1

The Flaming Lips & Dave Fridmann, surround mix engineers; The Flaming Lips & Dave Fridmann, surround mastering engineers; The Flaming Lips & Dave Fridmann, surround producers (The Flaming Lips)

• Vaughan Williams: Symphony No. 5; Fantasia On A Theme By Thomas Tallis; Serenade To Music

• Rider On The Plains: Cello Concertos By Virgil Thomson And Charles Fussell (Emmanuel Feldman)

• From Barrelhouse To Broadway: The Musical Odyssey Of Joe Jordan (Rick Benjamin & The Paragon Ragtime Orchestra)

• As Steals The Morn...Handel Arias & Scenes For Tenor (Mark Padmore, Andrew Manze & The English Concert)

• Homage: The Age Of The Diva

• Vaughan Williams: Symphony No. 5, Fantasia On A Theme By Thomas Tallis, Serenade To Music

Mark Elder, conductor; Carmelo Corrado Caruso, Giuseppe Filianoti, Vesselina Kasarova, Simon Keenlyside & Alastair Miles; Patric Schmid, producer (The Royal Opera Chorus; The Orchestra Of The Royal Opera House, Covent Garden)

• Penderecki: Symphony No. 7 'Seven Gates Of Jerusalem'

• On The Threshold Of Hope

• Homage: The Age Of The Diva

• The Jazz Album - Watch What Happens

• 10 Days Out - Blues From The Backroads

• Liberacion - The Songs Of The New Cuban Underground
142 2007-12-06 Bringing the heat; an comparative analysis of on-screen clinches....
143 2007-12-06 A rendering of the exhibition space, left, and Mezzadro tractor-seat stool by Achille and Pier Giacomo Castiglioni, 1957. (Rendering, Michele De Lucchi.) It's surprising that Milan, the design capital of Italy, has never had a museum dedicated to ...
144 2007-12-06 As the subprime loan crisis deepens, Wall Street firms are increasingly coming under scrutiny for their role in selling risky mortgage-related securities to investors. Many of the home loans tied to these investments quickly defaulted, resulting i...
145 2007-12-06 The first of a new round of investor claims was filed against Bear Stearns on Wednesday for its role in managing two mortgage hedge funds that collapsed earlier this year, securities lawyers said. The claims, which will be submitted to the Financi...
146 2007-12-06 DundeeWealth surged 6.7 percent on speculation that Bank of Nova Scotia may buy the Canadian money manager to expand its mutual-fund business. According to a report in the Globe and Mail, Bank of Nova Scotia has emerged as the most likely buyer fo...
147 2007-12-06 A lawyer has pleaded guilty to conspiracy to bribe a judge and is assisting federal prosecutors in a case involving one of the nation's wealthiest trial lawyers, according to court documents. The lawyer, Timothy R. Balducci, entered the plea late ...
148 2007-12-06 The report notably does not call on the airlines to reduce the number of flights or fly larger planes instead of smaller regional jets, which have been blamed in part for the spike in delays. The report calls on the airlines to rework their schedules to avoid bottlenecks and urges the Port Authority and carriers to do a better job of relaying information about flight delays to passengers and get them off planes stuck on tarmacs.

The Task Force was formed last summer to grapple with the delays triggered in January, when the federal government removed limits on the number of planes that could operate at Kennedy during peak hours. After the caps were removed, airlines rushed to add flights, creating record delays not only at Kennedy, but also in the airspace in the New York metropolitan area and at airports that receive flights from airports here.

According to the report, airports in the New York area create three-quarters of the nation’s flight delays. The delays, if unaddressed, will only fester. According to a study by the F.A.A. released in May, and cited in the report, air travel in the region is expected to grow by 50 percent by 2025.

The airlines and the Port Authority have opposed proposals made by federal transportation officials because, they claim, it would create more delays and hurt New York’s economy. In addition to reintroducing flight limits at Kennedy, federal officials have proposed a congestion pricing plan that would charge higher user fees for planes flying during peak hours. The federal government may also auction landing slots at the region’s airports, a step that could punish cash-poor airlines.

The Department of Transportation is expected to give President Bush a list of suggestions on how to reduce gridlock in New York’s airspace next week.

The Task Force’s recommendations include many measures that can only be implemented and, in some cases, paid for by the federal government. The Task Force, for instance, called for improved flight routes — not unlike high occupancy vehicle lanes on highways — on busy corridors between New York and other cities like Washington D.C., as well as an Airspace Flow Program, which lets planes fly around inclement weather.

Another recommendation includes adjusting air routes so flights in and out of the New York area do not conflict with traffic in the Boston area.

Other suggestions included introducing next-generation navigation technology this is already being used by the F.A.A. at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport. The airlines and Port Authority called on the federal government to make the New York area airports a priority when considering where to introduce the technology next.

Several measures require additional funding, like extending and reconfiguring taxiways at Kennedy, LaGuardia and Newark Liberty International airports to speed the arrival and departure of planes on neighboring runways. The Port Authority has set aside $150 million to pay for runway and taxiway construction at Kennedy, but the report does not say specifically how other measures will be paid for.

In its long-term capital plan, the agency has set aside $6 billion for “aviation-related expenditures” through 2016. At least $500 million of that money will be spent developing Stewart International Airport, which the Port Authority hopes will siphon off traffic from other airports in the region.
149 2007-12-06 The discussions have apparently not been easy. American negotiators said that, as worries grew in the United States about the safety of Chinese products, the Chinese side raised concerns of their own and imposed new safety restrictions on American food and other products, possibly in retaliation.

For example, over the summer China proposed extensive new inspections for American medical equipment like patient monitors and surgical implants, but did not impose the same rules on domestic rivals. The Bush administration cried foul, and hopes to get the proposal revised next week.

In addition, American officials said that the Chinese have imposed “extreme requirements” for inspection of American beef for mad cow disease, poultry for possible salmonella traces and pork for chemical additives.

Chuck Connor, the acting agriculture secretary, is trying to negotiate more flexible treatment of American food products by the Chinese authorities.

Michael Leavitt, secretary of health and human services and the head of an administration review of American product-safety standards, said in a speech this week that the expected agreements with China would cover food, animal feed, medical devices and drugs, and would ensure that imports meet American standards of quality and safety.

An “action plan” on the safety of imported goods was started by President George W. Bush last month, calling for improved certification of imports, greater efforts to keep tainted goods from being shipped to America, and for American training to help other countries build up their safety-inspection capabilities.

But spokesmen for Mr. Leavitt’s department say that the details of achieving these goals have not yet been worked out with the Chinese side. It is not clear, for instance, what sorts of on-site inspections or training the Chinese might permit, or whether China is prepared to relax the safety standards it has imposed on imports from the United States.

The “strategic economic dialogue” begun by Mr. Paulson was meant to obtain greater access to the Chinese market for American goods, services and investments, as well as steps by China to allow its currency to appreciate in value against the dollar, making American goods cheaper there and Chinese exports more expensive for Americans. In return, China got a forum to air grievances with Washington.

Now, however, many in the administration acknowledge that the dialogue has produced only limited results, such as greater access for Wall Street banks and investment firms. China’s currency has appreciated about 12 percent against the dollar since 2005, but it has fallen in relation to the euro, stirring anger in the European Union.

Many in Washington, especially in Congress, view the latest talks as a test for Mr. Paulson, who has warned lawmakers to refrain from imposing trade sanctions on China while he tries to negotiate resolution of disputes.

But since the dialogue began, those disputes have multiplied. The Commerce Department and the United States Trade Representative’s office have pressed formal complaints against China at the World Trade Organization, charging China with failing to enforce laws against piracy and the counterfeiting of goods and trademarks.

Last month, the Chinese settled a separate dispute before the World Trade Organization and agreed to terminate a dozen different kinds of subsidies and tax rebates that the United States said were unfairly promoting Chinese exports and discouraging imports.

At the same time, American trade officials complain that China is using regulations and standards to unfairly prevent American products from entering their market. There is a separate dispute over the American move to impose duties on several Chinese products that American officials say are improperly subsidized.

Two sets of talks are scheduled to occur next week. Mr. Paulson is to lead the “strategic economic dialogue” along with several cabinet members, including the commerce secretary, Carlos Gutierrez, and Susan Schwab, the United States trade representative. But before that session, aides to Mr. Gutierrez and Ms. Schwab are to discuss specific “market access” issues.

Officials said those issues include American objections to proposed restrictions on American cellphones, telecommunications services and express delivery services like Federal Express and DHL.

China is irritated that in many of these areas, the United States has threatened or imposed duties or lodged complaints with the World Trade Organization. But Mr. Gutierrez and Ms. Schwab say their approach of litigating disputes and negotiating them at the same time has produced results.

Commerce and trade officials were talking this week with their Chinese counterparts about ways to improve trade in these areas, but administration officials said it was too soon to say whether the talks would bear much fruit.

“We still have work to do,” said one administration negotiator. “We never know until the final meeting starts what the Chinese are going to agree to. We’ve tabled a good solid list of issues, and the ball is in China’s court right now.”

Mr. Paulson, the Treasury secretary, said the meetings next week would also be a test for the Chinese leaders who were newly installed in their posts at a Communist Party conference in the autumn.

On the issue of curbs on foreign investors and joint ventures in China’s capital markets, he said, “there’s been progress with almost every sector of the financial services industry, but it’s been incremental progress.”

Mr. Paulson said he recognized that rising political criticism of China in the United States, coupled with leadership changes in China and rising protectionist sentiment there, made the dialogue “more important and more difficult.”

“I frankly can’t conceive of anything that would be a better substitute for having two major global economies having a forum where we can make progress on the most important economic issues,” Mr. Paulson said. “One of my objectives is that when this administration leaves office, the next administration will continue it.”
150 2007-12-06 Many oil-producing countries want higher prices to develop their economies. Oil companies argue that higher prices offer some benefit to consumers because they call forth additional supplies, especially from higher-cost sources of oil like the tar sands of Canada. Some environmentalists argue that high prices encourage energy efficiency.

Oil prices are set in a global market, but exporting countries exercise a big influence by deciding how much oil to pump. The delicate balancing act for them is to find a price low enough that it does not hurt economic growth in the industrial economies, but high enough to pay for the rising aspirations of their own people.

At Abu Dhabi, OPEC faced a difficult decision, given fears of a slowdown in the American economy. In that context, adding more oil might have pushed prices far below the group’s comfort level. Last week, oil prices dropped more than 10 percent, the steepest weekly decline in more than two years.

Still, OPEC signaled that it was more concerned with slowing economic growth than with high prices. It rejected calls from oil consumers, including the United States, to lift output. Saudi Arabia, the key producing nation because it has the most flexibility to shift output, had initially said the group might consider increasing output by 500,000 barrels a day, but backed down amid the opposition of other OPEC members.

At the end of a volatile trading session, crude oil for next-month delivery settled yesterday at $87.49 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, down 83 cents. Prices initially gained more than $2 after the OPEC announcement, rising above $90, but fell back later in the day after the Energy Department said that domestic fuel supplies rose last week.

OPEC said its members would meet again in February to review their decision and fine-tune supply levels. After that, it is scheduled to meet in March. The group’s 13 members, recently augmented by the addition of Ecuador and Angola, account for some 40 percent of world exports.

OPEC said the reason prices rose to nearly $100 a barrel in recent weeks had little to do with supply and demand but was a result of trading by commodity investors and hedge funds, as well as geopolitical instability.

“We have enough stocks in the market,” Abdalla Salem el-Badri, the secretary general, told reporters. “There is no reason for the price of oil to go to $100 a barrel.”

The cartel’s policy since 2000 has been to adjust supply levels to track closely with demand, without allowing oil companies and refiners to build inventories. That careful management of supplies helped it raise prices after a price collapse in the late 1990s.

This year, OPEC pared its production in a bid to push down the level of commercial oil stocks in developed economies. Saudi Arabia, which was particularly concerned about higher-than-average supplies, helped engineer production cuts totaling 1.7 million barrels a day.

While OPEC’s real daily production dropped by only about a million barrels after the cuts, the strategy succeeded in forcing refiners to draw on inventories. From October 2006 to October 2007, supplies of oil and refined products in the United States, Europe and Japan dropped by 138 million barrels, according to Lawrence Goldstein, an economist at the Energy Policy Research Foundation.

By September, prices were spiking, and OPEC tried to adjust by increasing production 500,000 barrels a day. But the limited new output had little effect on prices, which were also being driven higher by speculation and fears over conflicts in the Middle East. Oil, which has risen 44 percent this year, settled as high as $98.18 a barrel on Nov. 23.

“They have fully achieved their objective,” Mr. Goldstein said. “In fact they have more than succeeded. The current levels are making them uncomfortable.”

Yesterday’s outcome might set the stage for oil prices to rise again. “Barring extremely negative economic outcomes,” analysts at Barclays Capital said in a note, “we see plenty of scope for prices to move back up and new highs to be tested.”
151 2007-12-06 The New York attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, has subpoenaed major Wall Street banks, including Deutsche Bank, Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley, seeking information about the packaging and selling of subprime mortgages. And the Securities and Exchange Commission is examining how Wall Street companies valued their own holdings of these complex investments.

The Wall Street banks that foresaw problems say they hedged their mortgage positions as part of their fiduciary duty to shareholders. Indeed, some other companies, particularly Citigroup, Merrill Lynch and UBS, apparently did not foresee the housing market collapse and lost billions of dollars, leading to forced resignations of their chief executives.

In any case, the bankers argue, buyers of such securities — institutional investors like pension funds, banks and hedge funds — are sophisticated and understand the risks.

Wall Street officials maintain that the system worked as it was supposed to. Underwriters, they say, did not pressure colleagues on trading desks or in research departments to promote securities blindly.

Nevertheless, the loans that many banks packaged are proving to be increasingly toxic. Almost a quarter of the subprime loans that were transformed into securities by Deutsche Bank, Barclays and Morgan Stanley last year are already in default, according to Bloomberg. About a fifth of the loans backing securities underwritten by Merrill Lynch are in trouble.

Data from another firm that tracks mortgage securities, Lewtan Technologies, shows similar trends. The banks declined to comment on the default rates.

The data raises questions about how closely Wall Street banks scrutinized these loans, many of them made at low teaser rates that will reset next year to higher levels.

The Bush administration is close to a plan to freeze mortgage rates temporarily for some homeowners who are threatened with foreclosure.

In recent years, Wall Street aggressively pushed into the complex, high-margin business of packaging mortgages. At the same time, banks expanded their roles to selling investments to clients while trying to make money on their own holdings. Now, with the collapse of the credit bubble, Wall Street’s risk management, as well as the multiple and often conflicting roles it plays, has been laid bare.

As early as January 2006, Greg Lippmann, Deutsche Bank’s global head of trading for asset-backed securities and collateralized debt obligations, and his team began advising hedge funds and other institutional investors to protect themselves from a coming decline in the housing market.

“He was really pounding the pavement,” said one hedge fund trader, who asked not to be identified because it could jeopardize his relationship with Wall Street banks.

Mr. Lippmann’s trade ideas — documented in a January 2006 presentation obtained by The New York Times — were not always popular inside Deutsche Bank, where the origination desk was busy selling mortgage securities. In the fall of 2006, Mr. Lippmann pitched bearish trades to the bank’s sales force at the same time the origination desk was bringing them mortgage deals to sell to clients.

Last year, Deutsche Bank underwrote $28.6 billion of subprime mortgage securities, according to Inside Mortgage Finance, an industry publication. In the first nine months of this year, the bank underwrote $12 billion.

Goldman Sachs also moved early to insulate itself from potential losses. Almost a year ago, on Dec. 14, 2006, David A. Viniar, Goldman’s chief financial officer, called a “mortgage risk” meeting. The investment bank’s mortgage desk was losing money, and Mr. Viniar, with various officials, reviewed every position in the bank’s portfolio.

The bank decided to reduce its stockpile of mortgages and mortgage-related securities and to buy expensive insurance as protection against further losses, said a person briefed on the meeting who was not authorized to speak about the situation publicly.

Goldman, however, did not stop selling subprime mortgage securities. The bank, like other firms, retains a piece of the securities it sells. A Goldman spokesman said the firm was not betting against the mortgage securities it underwrote in 2007.

Like Goldman, Lehman Brothers also started to hedge its huge inventory of home loans in the second quarter of this year, concerned about poor underwriting standards. But Lehman also continued to sell mortgage securities packed with shaky loans, underwriting $16.5 billion of new securities in the first nine months of 2007. About 15 percent of the loans backing these securities have defaulted.

At the center of the boom in mortgages for borrowers with weak credit was Wall Street’s once-lucrative partnership with subprime lenders. This relationship was a driving force behind the soaring home prices and the spread of exotic loans that are now defaulting in growing numbers. By buying and packaging mortgages, Wall Street enabled the lenders to extend credit even as the dangers grew in the housing market.

“There was fierce competition for these loans,” said Ronald F. Greenspan, a senior managing director at FTI Consulting, which has worked on the bankruptcies of many mortgage lenders. “They were a major source of revenues and perceived profits for both the originators and investment banks.”

The battle over these loans intensified in 2005 and 2006, as home prices approached their zenith. (Home sales peaked in mid-2005.) At the same time, buyers of these securities, which carry relatively high interest rates, were fueling demand. Lehman Brothers, the dominant Wall Street player in this field, underwrote $51.8 billion of subprime mortgage securities in 2006, followed by RBS Greenwich Capital, which arranged $47.6 billion of sales.

Not all banks continued to expand their subprime business. Credit Suisse, which had been a major player in 2005, pulled back aggressively, with its underwriting down 22 percent in 2006, compared with 2004.

But other Wall Street banks, pushing to catch these market leaders, reached out to subprime lenders. Morgan Stanley, which expanded its subprime underwriting business by 25 percent from 2004 to 2006, cultivated a relationship with New Century Financial, one of the largest subprime lenders. The firm agreed to pay above-market prices for loans in return for a steady supply of mortgages, according to a former New Century executive.

“Morgan would be aggressive and say, ‘We want to lock you in for $2 billion a month,’” said the executive, who asked not to be identified because he still works with Wall Street banks.

Loans made by New Century, which filed for bankruptcy protection in March, have some of the highest default rates in the industry — almost twice those of competitors like Wells Fargo and Ameriquest, according to data from Moody’s Investors Service.

Fremont General and ResMae, which also had high default rates, were big suppliers of loans to Deutsche Bank. Merrill Lynch had a close relationship with Ownit Mortgage Solutions, which filed for bankruptcy in December. Merrill also acquired another lender, First Franklin, for $1.7 billion in late 2006.

“The easiest way to grab market share was by paying more than your competitors,” said Jeffrey Kirsch, president of American Residential Equities, which buys home loans.

What is clear is that home loans were highly lucrative to Wall Street and its bankers. The average total compensation for managing directors in the mortgage divisions of investment banks was $2.52 million in 2006, compared with $1.75 million for managing directors in other areas, according to Johnson Associates, a compensation consulting firm. This year, mortgage officials will probably earn $1.01 million, while other managing directors are expected to earn $1.75 million.
152 2007-12-06 During the 1990s, the Balkans were the scene of Europe’s deadliest wars and worst atrocities since World War II. More recently, the region has been relatively peaceful, but many of its problems have merely been kicked down the road. Now, one of the most dangerous is coming to a head, with a United Nations deadline on Monday for resolving Kosovo’s political status.

Getting Kosovo wrong could plunge the Balkans back into turmoil. To avoid that, Serbia and Russia will have to quickly decide that they have more to gain from stability — and good relations with Europe and the United States — than from whipping up old hatreds.

Kosovo has been under international trusteeship since 1999 when NATO went to war to reverse Slobodan Milosevic’s brutal campaign to drive out Kosovo’s ethnic Albanian majority. While formally Kosovo is still a province of Serbia, there can be no question of returning it to Belgrade’s control.

Earlier this year, international mediators worked out a reasonable compromise that acknowledges both the desire of Kosovo’s Albanians for independence and the Serb minority’s legitimate fear of persecution. The international community will still oversee an independent Kosovo, and ensure that the Serb minority is protected and guaranteed substantial autonomy.

Kosovo’s ethnic Albanian leaders are prepared to accept the deal. Unfortunately, the Serbian government and its patrons in Moscow are not.

Russia’s position is cynical. It has no power to regain Kosovo for Serbia and the Kremlin plays its own secessionist games in Georgia and Moldova. President Vladimir Putin has simply been using Kosovo as a handy stick to beat the West and to remind the world that Russia still wields a Security Council veto.
153 2007-12-06 Solicitor General Paul D. Clement, urging the court to uphold that ruling, argued that procedures provided by the Detainee Treatment Act of 2005 and the Military Commissions Act of 2006 were better than adequate. The detainees were getting more access to judicial review, he maintained, than the writ of habeas corpus would have given foreign combatants when the Constitution was adopted.

“This is the remarkable liberalization of the writ, not some retrenchment or suspension of the writ,” Mr. Clement declared.

“Congress here has spoken,” he added. “The political branches have spoken. They have struck a balance. They’ve given these detainees better rights and access to administrative and judicial review.”

As his argument failed to gain traction, he rather remarkably began throwing pieces of it over the side. He even suggested for the first time that under the available procedures, the appeals court would be able to reach the ultimate judgment of ordering a detainee’s release. The detainees’ lawyers have argued that the statutes’ failure to authorize this remedy was a major flaw that condemned detainees to open-ended confinement no matter the outcome of their appeals.

“Certainly,” Mr. Clement said, “if this court thinks that the constitutional line essentially necessitates that the D.C. Circuit have the authority to order a release, there is no obstacle to that.”

By the end of the argument, an intense session that lasted 23 minutes beyond its allotted hour, it seemed most likely that the court would draw a road map for the appeals court to follow in expanding the procedural protections available to the detainees.

The significance of the eventual ruling, due by early summer, will lie in what features the road map contains. And that, in turn, may depend on how far Justice Anthony M. Kennedy is willing to go in joining an opinion that will in all likelihood be joined by Justices John Paul Stevens, David H. Souter, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen G. Breyer.

These five were the majority in June 2006, when the court in Hamdan v. Rumsfeld invalidated the system of military commissions the Bush administration had set up to try selected detainees for war crimes. They were also in the majority in Rasul v. Bush, in 2004, in which the court ruled that, contrary to the administration’s view, federal judges had jurisdiction to hear cases filed by Guantánamo detainees.

“Aren’t you simply rearguing Rasul?” Justice Souter asked Mr. Clement at one point in a testy tone.

The new case, Boumediene v. Bush, No. 06-1195, concerns the “combatant status review tribunals” the administration has set up to validate the initial determination that a detainee is an enemy combatant. The tribunals are panels of military officers, who are not required to disclose to the detainee details of the evidence or witnesses against him. The military assigns a “personal representative” to each detainee, but defense lawyers may not participate.

Under the Detainee Treatment Act, detainees may appeal the tribunal’s decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit under circumscribed appellate procedures, including a presumption that the evidence before the tribunal was accurate and complete. The District of Columbia Circuit is currently considering how it will handle these appeals, including such questions as how much of the evidentiary record the government will be required to disclose on appeal.

The details of the tribunal and appeal procedures are relevant to the Supreme Court only insofar as the detainees can claim a right to due process or other constitutional rights that the federal courts historically enforce for prisoners through writs of habeas corpus. The court’s precedents permit substitutes for formal habeas corpus procedures as long as the substitutes offer the same basic protections.

During the argument on Wednesday, the justices’ focus on whether the detainees were being offered an adequate substitute appeared to assume that either a reasonable substitute or habeas corpus itself had to be provided.

Mr. Waxman, the detainees’ lawyer, listed several elements that he said were needed for an adequate substitute: “a fair notice of the fact,” “a fair opportunity to challenge them with the assistance of counsel before a neutral decision maker” and “the remedy of speedy release for somebody who is unlawfully being held in executive detention.”

These were “tried and true established procedures,” Mr. Waxman said, adding, “This court should issue a ruling saying for these people if the writ means anything, the time for experimentation is over.”

Mr. Waxman referred numerous times to the fact that the 37 detainees he represented have been held for nearly six years. After his second reference, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. interjected, “Your argument wouldn’t be any different with respect to the availability of habeas if these people were held for one day, would it?”

Later, the chief justice suggested that the first few years of detention should not count because the procedures under review “weren’t available for the whole six-year period, were they?”

“No, of course not,” Mr. Clement agreed. Alluding to the lapse of time and the multiple rounds of litigation, he continued, “Congress in this area was providing unprecedented review and, of course, when you do something unprecedented, new questions will arise.”

Justice Kennedy, presumed to hold the balance in this case, was the focus of much attention by both sides. His few questions suggested that his main interest was in how far the appeals court might be able to go to remedy any flaws in the existing procedures.
154 2007-12-06 Baseball players would no longer receive bonuses for winning the Most Valuable Player, Cy Young or rookie awards bestowed by the Baseball Writers’ Association of America under a rule passed yesterday.

Starting in 2013, players with such bonus clauses in their contracts will be barred from receiving votes for any awards voted by the association.

Hall of Fame voting is not affected, nor are manager of the year or nonbaseball writer awards like the World Series M.V.P. or Gold Glove.

“When we first started giving out these awards, it was just to honor somebody,” said Jack O’Connell, the organization’s secretary-treasurer. “You got a trophy; there was no monetary reward that went with it. I honestly don’t think people vote with that in mind. But the attachment of a bonus to these awards creates a perception that we’re trying to make these guys rich.”

The vote was 41-21 on the rule, which was brought up by The Associated Press several years ago. The association appointed a committee to discuss the rule with the commissioner’s office and the players union.
155 2007-12-06 The financial health of the country’s biggest bond insurer, MBIA Inc., has been under greater threat from bad mortgage debt than it was thought to be weeks ago, Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday, signaling that it was more likely to cut the top-level ratings of the company.

MBIA is “at greater risk of exhibiting a capital shortfall than previously communicated,” said the ratings company, which said last month that the insurer’s capital was likely to be adequate. Moody’s said it would complete a new assessment in two weeks.

The statement came as ratings companies determine how much this year’s widespread deterioration of mortgage credit had hurt bond insurers’ ability to pay claims.

MBIA and four other companies insure $60.87 billion of debt secured by mortgage loans made to borrowers with poor credit, Moody’s said. The Ambac Financial Group has the greatest exposure to subprime mortgage debt with $22 billion insured, followed by MBIA, which has $11.09 billion.

Companies like Countrywide Financial and Bear Stearns have sold more than $2 trillion of investments backed by mortgages in the last five years, according to the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association.

MBIA said in its annual report this year that lower financial strength ratings would hamper its ability to compete with other bond insurers. Moody’s rates its financial strength AAA, the highest of 10 investment-grade levels.
156 2007-12-06 “We have been as green as green can be,” said David Castelveter, a spokesman for the Air Transport Association, the trade group of the big carriers.

Mr. Castelveter said that his industry was not troubled by the E.P.A.’s looking into the issue and that efficiency had risen sharply over the last seven years. Among other steps, the airlines are matching passenger load to the number of seats, with the result that they are often flying smaller planes.

The petitions also suggest using alternative jet fuels. That idea is in its infancy, but Japanese researchers are pursuing fuels that can be made from plants instead of oil.

Among those filing the petitions were the attorneys general of California, Connecticut, New Jersey and New Mexico; the South Coast Air Quality Management District, a California agency; the City of New York; the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection; and the District of Columbia. Earthjustice, Friends of the Earth, Oceana and the Center for Biological Diversity also filed.

The E.P.A. said it would review the petitions, but pointed to steps the nation had already taken to fight climate change. “The U.S.,” the agency said in a statement, “has invested over $37 billion on climate change science, technology and tax incentive programs — more than any other country in the world.”

According to the petitions, aviation accounts for about 3 percent of greenhouse gas emissions in the United States. But, citing predictions by the Federal Aviation Administration, the petitions say emissions from the sector could swell 60 percent by 2025.

The Bush administration has opposed carbon controls and has argued that Europe’s plans to put quotas on the emissions of airlines flying there, forcing the carriers to buy carbon offsets, would violate treaties governing international aviation.

Even as the petitions were filed, the Scandinavian carrier S.A.S. said Wednesday that while Al Gore flies to Stockholm this weekend to accept a Nobel Prize for his work on climate change, the airline will be making the first trans-Atlantic flight by a European carrier intended to reduce carbon emissions with a landing technique called continuous descent approach. In that system, the plane descends to the runway with engines at near-idle levels, somewhat like a car rolling downhill to a stop sign. It saves about 50 gallons of fuel per landing.

But UPS, which pioneered the technique in the United States, said it would also allow more flights, since airliners can be spaced more precisely, allowing them to land at closer intervals. So while aviation is made more efficient, UPS said, it is also made an even larger consumer of fuel and producer of carbon dioxide.
157 2007-12-06 “All you’ve heard for two years was: ‘What’s happening with the blue diner? What’s happening with the blue diner?’” said Maureen MacDonnell, a 71-year-old house painter, who frequented the diner at its original site at 11th Avenue and 49th Street and now considers herself a regular at the new one. “You don’t know what a big deal this is.”

Built in the 1940s, the Munson was a modest classic of its era in style and ambience. It featured a base of vertical strips of stainless steel holding in bowed, bright blue enameled panels; glass-block infill and horizontal blue and stainless steel striping along the top, all accented under lurid red neon.

But by the late ’90s, it was a relic in newly fashionable Hell’s Kitchen, where the original ethos of diners — as places where, as The Times put it in a 1941 article, “men and women in evening dress swap jokes with men in overalls” — was as out of date as 10-cent coffee.

The Volvo dealership that bought the space put the diner up for sale, the Liberty 15 took a flier, and there we were.

THE Munson might still be closed if not for Fred LaGattuta, 47, a retired diesel mechanic turned populist entrepreneur whose projects have included a bowling alley in Callicoon ($7 unlimited-time bowling, $2 beer, $1 pizza slices) and a motel and diner near Parksville (rooms at $49.99). He leased the diner with an option to buy it, along with a partner, Tom Russell.

Mr. LaGattuta figured the old diner should just be a diner, and worked every weekend for eight months with his 18-year-old son, Paeden, to fix it up.

There’s a new tile floor, new and bigger red booths, a new kitchen, a new ceiling, new laminate on the tables and the counter to go with the old facade and neon sign, old menu boards and old twirling stools.

The whole project will cost about $300,000, not the $125,000 the investors originally planned on, but at least it’s open, with two eggs, potatoes and toast for $2.50, $5.20 ziti, and a 12-ounce Monster Munsonburger with three cheeses, bacon and other extras, plus fries and cole slaw, for $6.

“I’m a fatso who likes to eat, and I thought this little town needed a restaurant like this,” said Mr. LaGattuta, whose family moved to the Catskills from Yonkers in the early 1960s. “You go to an old diner and you get, I don’t know, a warm feeling. That’s what I wanted.”

Urban chauvinists might pity the Munson, exiled from the bright lights. And yet.

In its latter days, the Munson was a setting for shows like “Law and Order” and the famous Bizarro Seinfeld episode, where Elaine met at a diner with her new, friendly, noncynical pals, the opposite of Jerry, Kramer and George. So, maybe, it’s appropriate it has gone full circle, not just to a pre-concept-dining diner, but to a Bizarro version of its old locale, where the killer meatloaf is still in fashion and people walk in and say hello.

And then, there was the guy at the counter yesterday morning.

“You got Heinz?” he asked the waitress, looking askance at the ketchup on the counter.

“In little packets,” she said.

“Well, anything’s better than this,” he replied, like a dyspeptic regular from 11th Avenue and 49th Street who had found his way home.
158 2007-12-06 Mr. Clarke said talks ended this week when the deadline passed for the local chapter to change its policy; on June 1 the group will be evicted.

“Since we were founded, we believe that open homosexuality would be inconsistent with the values that we want to communicate with our leaders,” said Gregg Shields, national spokesman for the Boy Scouts. “A belief in God is also mentioned in the Scout oath. We believe that those values are important. Tradition is important. Our mission is to instill those values in scouts and help them make good choices over their lifetimes.”

In 2000, the Supreme Court decided a case — Boy Scouts of America v. Dale — involving an openly gay scout from New Jersey who was barred from serving as troop leader. The court ruled in a 5-to-4 decision that, as a private organization, the group had a First Amendment right to set its membership rules.

The issue became a local concern in Philadelphia in May 2003 when the national Boy Scouts held their annual meeting in the city. During the conference, a local scout challenged the organization’s policies by announcing on television that he was gay and that he was a devoted member of the organization. He was promptly dismissed by the local chapter, which is called the Cradle of Liberty Council.

Municipal officials drew the line at the Beaux Arts building because the city owns the half-acre of land where the building stands. The Boy Scouts erected the ornate building and since 1928 have leased the land from the city for a token sum of $1 a year. City officials said the market value for renting the building was about $200,000 a year, and they invited the Boy Scouts to remain as full-paying tenants.

Jeff Jubelirer, a spokesman for the local chapter, said it could not afford $200,000 a year in rent, and that such a price would require it to cut summer-camp funds for 800 needy children.

“With an epidemic of gun violence taking the lives of children almost daily in this city, it’s ironic that this administration chose to destroy programming that services thousands of children in the city,” Mr. Jubelirer said. He added that the organization serves more than 69,000 young people, mostly from the inner city, and that its programming focuses on mentoring and after-school programs instead of camping trips.

But Stacey Sobel, executive director of Equality Advocates Pennsylvania, a gay-rights advocacy group based in Philadelphia, said: “Allowing the Boy Scouts to use this building rent free sends a message that the city approves of their policy. We are not looking to kick the Boy Scouts out. We just want them to play by the same rules as everyone else in the city.”

Ms. Sobel said the city required that any organization that rented property from it agree to nondiscriminatory language in its lease. The Boy Scouts skirted the requirement by never having had to sign a lease because they were given use of the building by city ordinance in the 1920s.

Local scout leaders said they tried hard to find a compromise between the city and their own national office, and in 2005 they seemed poised to agree on a policy statement adopted by the Boy Scouts in New York, which did not renounce the prohibition against gay members, but affirmed that “prejudice, intolerance and unlawful discrimination in any form are unacceptable.”

But last year, city officials wrote Cradle of Liberty Council officials to say that suggested policy statement could not be reconciled with Philadelphia’s antidiscrimination ordinance.

On May 31, the City Council voted 16-to-1 to authorize ending the lease, though Mr. Clarke and other Council members continued trying to negotiate a settlement. Those efforts ended this week, Mr. Clarke said, adding that he had shifted his energy toward trying to see if there was a way the city could reimburse the group for improvements it had made to the property over the years.

Boy Scout officials said they do not have a cost estimate for the improvements, but Mr. Jubelirer said it would exceed $5 million.

Flipping through an aged book of fund-raising encouragement for construction of the building — from dignitaries like Helen Keller, Babe Ruth and Winston Churchill — Chuck Eaton, director of field service for the local chapter, noted how the past contrasted with the present.

In front of the building, the wording on a statue of a boy standing sentinel also marks the passage of time. “The past is our heritage,” it reads. “The present our opportunity. The future our hope.”
159 2007-12-06 One reason that dyslexics are drawn to entrepreneurship, Professor Logan said, is that strategies they have used since childhood to offset their weaknesses in written communication and organizational ability — identifying trustworthy people and handing over major responsibilities to them — can be applied to businesses.

“The willingness to delegate authority gives them a significant advantage over nondyslexic entrepreneurs, who tend to view their business as their baby and like to be in total control,” she said.

William J. Dennis Jr., senior research fellow at the Research Foundation of the National Federation of Independent Business, a trade group in Washington, said the study’s results “fit into the pattern of what we know about small-business owners.”

“Entrepreneurs are hands-on people who push a minimum of paper, do lots of stuff orally instead of reading and writing, and delegate authority, all of which suggests a high verbal facility,” Mr. Dennis said. “Compare that with corporate managers who read, read, read.”

Indeed, according to Professor Logan, only 1 percent of corporate managers in the United States have dyslexia.

Much has been written about the link between dyslexia and entrepreneurial success. Fortune Magazine, for example, ran a cover story five years ago about dyslexic business leaders, including Richard Branson, founder of Virgin Atlantic Airways; Charles R. Schwab, founder of the discount brokerage firm that bears his name; John T. Chambers, chief executive of Cisco; and Paul Orfalea, founder of the Kinko’s copy chain.

Similarly, Rosalie P. Fink, a professor at Lesley College in Cambridge, Mass., wrote a paper in 1998 on 60 highly accomplished people with dyslexia.

But Professor Logan said hers was the first study that she knew of that tried to measure the percentage of entrepreneurs who have dyslexia. Carl Schramm, president of the Kauffman Foundation, which financed the research, agreed. He said the findings were surprising but, he said, there was no previous baseline to measure it against.

Emerson Dickman, president of the International Dyslexia Association in Baltimore and a lawyer in Maywood, N.J., said the study’s findings “just make sense.”

“Individuals who have difficulty reading and writing tend to deploy other strengths,” Mr. Dickman, who has dyslexia, said. “They rely on mentors, and as a result, become very good at reading other people and delegating duties to them. They become adept at using visual strengths to solve problems.”

Mr. Orfalea, 60, who left Kinko’s — now FedEx Kinko’s — seven years ago, and who now dabbles in a hodgepodge of business undertakings, is almost proud of having dyslexia and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.

“I get bored easily, and that is a great motivator,” he said. “I think everybody should have dyslexia and A.D.D.”

He attributes his success to his difficulty with reading and writing because it forced him to master verbal communication.

“I didn’t have a lot of self-confidence as a kid,” he said. “And that is for the good. If you have a healthy dose of rejection in your life, you are going to have to figure out how to do it your way.”

He said his biggest advantage was his realization that because of his many inadequacies, he had to delegate important tasks to subordinates. “My motto is: Anybody else can do anything better than me,” he said.

Danny Kessler, 26, also has dyslexia and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. Mr. Kessler founded Angels with Attitude, which holds seminars for women on self-defense. He is a co-founder of Club E Network (www.clubenetwork.com), which sponsors “networking events,” runs an online chat room for entrepreneurs and produces television shows about them.

Like Mr. Orfalea, he said he had low self-esteem as a child, and now views that as a catapult into the entrepreneurial world. “I told myself I would never be a lawyer or a doctor,” he said. “But I wanted to make a lot of money. And I knew business was the only way I was going to do it.”

In high school, Mr. Kessler said, “I became cool with the teachers. I developed a rapport with them. I was able to convince almost all of them to nudge my grade up just a bit. I adopted a strategy for squeezing through the system.”

As for the importance of entrusting tasks to others, Mr. Kessler says his limitations have endowed him with a “razor sharp” intuition that allows him to ascertain within minutes of meeting people whether he can depend on them and what they would be good at in an organization.

Drew Devitt, 45, who also has dyslexia, said he started Thoughtware Products in college to produce videos for real estate brokers. Today, he runs a successful $9 million company in Aston, Pa., called New Way Air Bearings that makes bearings for precision machine tools.

Asked about mentors, Mr. Devitt ticks off a list, and it is a long one, beginning with his parents, who sold imported bearing materials out of their home.

Indirectly, he confirmed that he gives free rein to his deputies. Asked about the claim on his company’s Web site that it is a “market leader,” he sighed. “That’s not something I would say,” he said. “Actually, it’s baloney. But that’s what our marketing people came up with. You can’t do everything. You have to let people do their job.”
160 2007-12-06 When Netflix’s seven million subscribers send their DVDs back to one of the rental service’s 47 distribution centers, the discs do not represent many happy returns for the Postal Service.

According to a recent audit by the service’s Office of Inspector General, the adhesive flap that seals the Netflix mailers often jams machinery and requires sorting by hand, adding $21 million a year to the service’s labor costs. The Office of Inspector General has recommended a 17-cent surcharge on every package that requires hand sorting (not just Netflix discs).

A research note issued by Citigroup on Tuesday said 70 percent of Netflix’s return mailers must be sorted by hand. Netflix “is not specifically mentioned” by the postal audit “but is implied,” according to Citigroup. A spokesman for the post office declined to comment.

A Citigroup analyst who wrote the report, Tony Wible, said that Blockbuster’s return mailing envelopes do not cause this problem and that the issue could make a big competitive difference for the companies.

If Netflix “has to bear the full brunt of this increase (without other cost offsets), monthly operating income per paying subscriber would fall 67 percent from $1.05 to 35 cents,” Mr. Wible’s report states.
161 2007-12-06 HEMPSTEAD, N.Y., Dec. 5 — On Nov. 4, Laveranues Coles was inactive against the Washington Redskins because of a concussion. The Jets lost.

On Nov. 22, Coles was inactive against the Dallas Cowboys because of a sprained left ankle. The Jets lost that one, too.

Last Sunday, despite limited practice all week, Coles caught five passes as the Jets routed the Miami Dolphins, 40-13. His ankle is still bad, but this Sunday, when the Jets (3-9) play the Cleveland Browns (7-5) at Giants Stadium, Coles seems sure to be there. The Jets need him because Jerricho Cotchery, the other starting receiver, will probably be sidelined again with an injured right index finger.

At a news conference Wednesday, Coach Eric Mangini said Coles “is a good example of toughness.”

“With L. C., if he says ‘I’m playing,’ and you’ve gone through the process and you feel good about that, you know that he’s going to be there and you can expect a certain level of performance,” Mangini said. “Some guys with injuries, they may tell you one thing and may feel one way going into the game, but you get four or five plays in and it’s over for them, and now you’ve lost that roster spot. But that’s not the case with him. You’re not wondering whether or not he can do that.”

Coles does not seem to wonder, either.

“I’m here,” he said. “It’s another day and another practice.”
162 2007-12-06 JACKSON, Miss., Dec. 5 (AP) — A lawyer has pleaded guilty to conspiracy to bribe a judge and is assisting federal prosecutors in a case involving one of the nation’s wealthiest trial lawyers, according to court documents.

The lawyer, Timothy R. Balducci, entered the plea late Tuesday after initially pleading not guilty.

According to court papers, Mr. Balducci was accused of delivering $40,000 to a judge at the behest of a prominent lawyer, Richard F. Scruggs, for a favorable ruling in a civil case.

The case before the judge involved a dispute between Mr. Scruggs and other lawyers over $26.5 million in fees from a mass settlement of lawsuits that homeowners filed against State Farm Insurance after Hurricane Katrina.

Mr. Scruggs and the other lawyers appeared in court a week ago and pleaded not guilty to charges against them.

The remaining defendants “are absolutely innocent,” said Billy Quin, one of Mr. Scruggs’s attorneys. “Tim Balducci was operating on his own and of his own accord.”

Mr. Quin said there was no way of knowing what Mr. Balducci was promised in exchange for his cooperation. He added that the government had not turned over tape recordings that prosecutors claim link the defendants to the scheme.

Mr. Scruggs, a brother-in-law of Senator Trent Lott, the Mississippi Republican, earned millions from asbestos litigation and from his role in brokering a multibillion-dollar settlement with tobacco companies in the mid-1990s. His case against the tobacco companies was portrayed in the 1999 movie “The Insider.”
163 2007-12-06 Currently, “no single office is taking charge of assessing the causes of runway safety problems and taking the steps needed to address those problems,” the Government Accountability Office said in a report requested by Representative Jerry F. Costello, Democrat of Illinois, and Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, Democrat of New Jersey.

The aviation agency’s Office of Runway Safety has not produced a national plan since 2002, went two years without a permanent director and had a 45 percent staff cut over the past four years, the accountability office found.

In August, Marion C. Blakey, who was then the federal aviation administrator, called an industrywide conference to produce ideas for quick action. In October, the aviation agency reported progress on recommendations from the conference, including efforts to improve runway markings and add pilot training.

The G.A.O. report approved of those moves but also recommended more leadership from the aviation agency, better data collection and a reduction in required overtime for controllers.

“This report makes clear that the Bush administration is cutting corners and failing to put passenger safety first,” Mr. Lautenberg said. “The F.A.A. is taking too many chances and ignoring too many red flags.”

In response to the report, the aviation agency said it had reached its goal of reducing the most serious incursions by almost 25 percent in 2007. The agency said the overtime was a short-term issue that could be resolved through increased hiring.

Hiring is focusing on two dozen facilities with high overtime or six-day work weeks, according to the aviation agency, and a working group is studying whether scheduling changes could minimize fatigue.

An agency spokeswoman, Laura Brown, said that runway safety was a priority and that the agency “is safely staffing all of its air traffic facilities.”

Mr. Costello, chairman of a House transportation subcommittee on aviation, and Representative James L. Oberstar, Democrat of Minnesota and chairman of the full Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee, urged quick approval of a bill already passed by the House that would provide $42 million for incursion reduction and $72 million for runway lighting.

The measure would also require the F.A.A. to reopen contract negotiations with air traffic controllers, which the Bush administration opposes.
164 2007-12-06 This season, gifts are going green, so the Thirsty Light fits right in. Actually, this digital plant monitor, available from www.thirstylight.com, is colored green to blend in with your favorite houseplant’s leaves. If you neglect the plant, this $9.95 device berates you by blinking.

The Thirsty Light resembles a chef’s thermometer. Its corrosion-resistant brass probe sits in the soil, and the tip reads the moisture level once a second. If things are nice and squishy, it just sits there, like a potted plant. But as dryness increases, an L.E.D. starts winking, slowly at first. The plant monitor rises through five levels, from slow to rapid and then to fast double-blinks for imminent peril.

The Thirsty Light may also help compulsive over-waterers to relax and refrain. Battery life is up to a year, if your watering habits don’t cause too much desperate signaling. MARTY KATZ
165 2007-12-06 The antiquities collections at Princeton, Yale and the University of Pennsylvania come the closest to it, representing institutions “that have been collecting for a very long time,” Ms. Udell said.

Having studied Latin and Greek at Fordham, Mr. Walsh said he believed that the university’s curriculum could benefit from his antiquities collection, whose value he estimated at $5 million to $6 million. “One of the things I felt was missing at Fordham was a recognition of the actual usage of things in Roman and Greek times,” he said.

It might not seem a propitious moment to open an antiquities collection to public view, given recent claims by Italy and Greece that some artifacts in American collections were looted from their soil. (The Princeton University Art Museum agreed last month to turn over eight objects to Italy, and several museums have brokered similar transfers after long talks.)

Richard Hodges, the director of the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology, said that Fordham’s new museum was problematic.

“It’s a slightly imprudent act on the part of the university, because a lot of it is not provenanced,” he said. “The message that it sends is there is nothing wrong with looting and buying illegal objects. Fordham needs to be very careful about this.”

But Mr. Walsh said he acquired every piece at public auctions — not through a private dealer — and therefore hopes that the provenance of his artifacts is clean and accounted for. “I’ve always focused on keeping the auction house between myself and the seller,” he said.

Told of Mr. Hodges’s comments, Ms. Udell said she hoped that anyone who had a claim to or concerns about any of the pieces would come forward.

“We’re not trying to hide anything and we’re happy to work with anyone who has a legitimate claim,” she said.

While Fordham cares “deeply about provenance questions,” she added, it also wants to share Mr. Walsh’s treasures with the public.

“They’re not going to do anybody any good sitting in a private collection,” Ms. Udell said.

The new 4,000-square-foot gallery is located in the William D. Walsh Family Library on the Rose Hill campus of Fordham. In 1997 Mr. Walsh and his family donated more than $10 million toward the construction of the $54 million library and established an endowment for its upkeep.

Mr. Walsh, who graduated from Fordham in 1951, is the founding chairman of Sequoia Associates, a private investment firm in Menlo Park. He also holds a Harvard law degree and was an assistant United States attorney in New York City in the 1950s, overseeing drug and organized crime investigations.

Ms. Udell, who began her curatorial work on the museum in June, said the breadth of Mr. Walsh’s collection, dating from the 10th century B.C. to the third century A.D., made it an ideal teaching tool. She said she hoped that Fordham’s art history and classics departments would integrate the objects into their courses.

“It spans several periods,” Ms. Udell said of the collection, “Mycenaean, Villanovan, Classical Greece, Geometrical, Archaic Roman, Imperial Roman, Republican, Etruscan, South Italian.” There are red-figure and red-and-black-figure ceramics, and the shiny black Etruscan pottery known as Bucchero. There is an array of sculpture and terra cotta heads.

While Ms. Udell said that some of the pieces had been published in academic journals, none have ever been lent for an exhibition. This is the first time people will be able to see the extensive collection that Mr. Walsh has built over the years. “It’s really becoming public,” she said.

Students will be able to visit the museum from 8:30 a.m. to midnight seven days a week. For now, members of the general public must schedule an appointment, but regular hours are expected in January.

Among Ms. Udell’s favorite pieces are three Greek lebes gamikos, or ceremonial wedding vessels, including a vase with a dish that fits inside it, and an oinochoe, or wine jug, that sits on top. The black glaze ware, from around 325 B.C., was made as a set. “It’s one of these types of things that gets lost among the splashy South Italian vases,” Ms. Udell said.

She also pointed out the neck fragment of a volute krater from around 340 B.C. that features a rosette motif and a painted woman’s face that is somewhat Botticellian. “In its excerpted state, you really get to appreciate the draftsmanship of the painter,” Ms. Udell said.

There is a series of Etruscan votive heads, used as offerings to the gods by people hoping to alleviate their suffering or express gratitude for their recovery. There is also a series of votive feet in the collection.

A Hydria water jar, from about 510 B.C., depicts Heracles battling the Nemea Lion at the top, and, on the bottom, reclining after his heroic efforts in the company of Athena and Hermes.

The largest piece in the collection is a funerary statue of a man dating from the late Republican period — late first century B.C. — that stands about eight feet tall. “He was a man of some importance, given the scale,” Ms. Udell said, “and the fact that he’s wearing a Greek-style himation, as opposed to a Roman-style toga.” (A himation is an ancient Greek draped cloak.)

There is also a child-size sarcophagus from the second or third century A.D., with a lid, which is rare. The inscription indicates that the coffin belonged to a 2 1/2 -year-old boy named Publius Livius Maximus whose father, of the same name, was a member of a military police unit in ancient Rome. “The father used the child’s sarcophagus to tell about himself,” Ms. Udell said.

The only pieces that Mr. Walsh held onto were those that could not be easily removed, like a Roman mosaic from Pompeii embedded in the wall of his home. While he has given a few of his artifacts to friends and family members, he said he was happy that most were at last going to an educational institution.

“This is just a natural evolution,” he said. “You don’t live forever.”
166 2007-12-06 In the glory days of which Mr. Mount writes, Missouri, like other states, adopted a state seal with a motto in Latin: “Salus populi suprema lex esto” (“Let the welfare of the people be the supreme law”).

Today we are not only ignoring Latin, as Mr. Mount laments. We may actually be on the verge of formally banishing the beloved language from public life.

Next year Missouri voters will decide whether to amend the state constitution by adding the words, “English shall be the language of all official proceedings in this state.”

If approved, this amendment would appear to ban our state seal with its Latin motto from all official proceedings.
167 2007-12-06 Responding to global demand for palm oil, which is used in cooking and cosmetics and, lately, in an increasingly popular biodiesel, companies have been claiming any land they can.

Fortunately, from Mr. Helman’s point of view, the issue of Riau’s disappearing forests has become a global one. He is now a volunteer for Greenpeace, which has established a camp in his village to monitor what it calls an impending Indonesian “carbon bomb.”

Deforestation, during which carbon stored in trees is released into the atmosphere, now accounts for 20 percent of the world’s greenhouse gas emissions, according to scientists. And Indonesia releases more carbon dioxide through deforestation than any other country.

Within Indonesia, the situation is most critical in Riau. In the past 10 years, nearly 60 percent of the province’s forests have been logged, burned and pulped, according to Jikalahari, a local environmental group.

“This is very serious — the world needs to act now,” said Susanto Kurniawan, a coordinator for Jikalahari who regularly makes the arduous trip into the forest from the nearby city of Pekanbaru, passing long lines of trucks carting palm oil and wood. “In a few years it will be too late.”

The rate of this deforestation is rising as oil prices reach new highs, leading more industries to turn to biodiesel made from palm oil, which, in theory, is earth-friendly. But its use is causing more harm than good, environmental groups say, because companies slash and burn huge swaths of trees to make way for palm oil plantations.

Even more significant, the burning and drying of Riau’s carbon-rich peatlands, also to make way for palm oil plantations, releases about 1.8 billion tons of greenhouse gases a year, according to Greenpeace officials.

But it is also in Riau that a new global strategy for conserving forests in developing countries might begin. A small area of Riau’s remaining forest will become a test case if an international carbon-trading plan called REDD is adopted.

REDD, or Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation, is to be one of the central topics of discussion at the Bali conference. Essentially, it would involve payments by wealthy countries to developing countries for every hectare of forest they do not cut down.

Indonesia, caught between its own financial interest in the palm oil industry and the growing international demands for conservation, has been promoting the carbon-trading plan for months.

But there are plenty of skeptics, who doubt it will be possible to measure just how much carbon is being conserved — and who question whether the lands involved can be protected from illegal logging and corruption.

Illegal logging is commonplace in Indonesia, and though the government has prosecuted dozens of cases in recent years, it says it cannot be everywhere. Companies in this remote area are cultivating land legally sold to them by the Indonesian government, but maps of their projects obtained by Greenpeace indicate that many of them have also moved into protected areas.

Critics say corruption is their biggest concern. The most famous illegal logger in Indonesia, Adelin Lis, who operated in North Sumatra, was arrested this year, only to be acquitted by a court in Medan, the provincial capital. He then left the country.

The attorney general’s office has opened a corruption investigation into judges and the police in Medan, and says there are many similar cases. “There are a number of ongoing investigations into corruption that has allowed illegal loggers from all over Indonesia to go free,” said Thomson Siagian, a spokesman for the attorney general. “In such a lucrative industry, payoffs are common.”

At the Bali conference, the Woods Hole Research Center, an environmental group based in the United States, has presented research showing that new satellite technology can make it more feasible to track illegal logging. Reports “show that radar imagery from new sensors recently placed in orbit can solve the problem of monitoring reductions in tropical deforestation, which previously was a major obstacle because of cloud cover that optical sensors can’t see through,” said John P. Holdren, the center’s director.

Such developments are good news to Mr. Helman, the villager in Riau who, using his wooden boat, has been ferrying a steady stream of foreign environmentalists and journalists in and out of the forest in recent weeks.

“I am so thankful for the recent attention,” he said, tinkering with the sputtering engine. “At times it seems too late. But I see some hope now.”
168 2007-12-06 GRISS--Pauline Wenger, 103, of New York City, died on December 3rd. She was predeceased by her beloved husband, Samuel, and her daughter, Joan Griss Ziegler, and is survived by her daughter, Harriet, four grandchildren and ten great-grandchildren....
169 2007-12-06 OF TWO MINDS ON SECURITIES Late last year Goldman Sachs began reducing its inventory of mortgages and mortgage securities as concerns grew about a looming meltdown. Even so, Goldman went on to package and sell more than $6 billion of new securitie...
170 2007-12-07 Also in the Morning Buzz: fallout from a video showing a beating on the subway, reaction to the decision to decentralize management of subway lines and the release of Robert E. Chambers’s girlfriend from jail....
171 2007-12-07 "There is no national security reason I can think of that would justify destroying the tapes," John McCain said....
172 2007-12-07 With the artists and other creative types that used to call Prenzlauer Berg home slowly getting priced out of the neighborhood, places like the Weinerei are welcome holdouts. A wine bar that's based on the honor system, the Weinerei at Zionskirchp...
173 2007-12-07 (Greg Kadel) The musician Stephin Merritt of the Magnetic Fields (among other bands) is one of the most gifted people we have ever met. His talent is infinite. When designing a collection, we find ourselves constantly listening to his work. Music ...
174 2007-12-07 Apple has put an additional $5 billion in the bank over the last year, giving it more cash than any company other than Microsoft and Cisco. Should it make acquisitions, pay a dividend, buy its stock back, or just look at the money pile up in the v...
175 2007-12-07 In a year that has proved volatile for hedge fund returns, November appears to be one of the down months - except for one investment strategy. All together, hedge funds lost about 1.4 percent last month, according to Hedge Fund Research, a Chicago...
176 2007-12-07 Is a rookie the answer between Jagr and Straka?...
177 2007-12-07 Apple's newest store - its second-largest in the United States - is opening Friday night in Manhattan's trendy Meatpacking District, and Apple enthusiasts are already gawking at what Gothamist.com has dubbed "the shiny, new tech haven." From the l...
178 2007-12-07 Thomas Hicks did it. Nelson Peltz is doing it. And on Friday, Ronald O. Perelman, the billionaire financier whose firm owns Revlon, joined the parade. We are talking about Spacs, or special-purpose acquisition companies, whose sole purpose in life...
179 2007-12-07 (Annabel Mehran) The Moment introduces The Insider, a recurring profile of emerging tastemakers in the fields of fashion, design, art, food and travel. First up, Melissa Bent, the Rivington Arms gallerist and girl-about-downtown, who, as it happen...
180 2007-12-07 Genzyme's stock fell slightly Thursday after the biotech company's chief executive, Henri Termeer, said he had no interest in selling the company, despite speculation that billionaire investor Carl C. Icahn, who owns stock in the company, could pu...
181 2007-12-07 Hedge fund asset levels jumped 11 percent in the six months from April to November, while the industry's combined assets under administration have reached the $4 trillion milestone, according to a new survey. Buoyed in part by an increase in pensi...
182 2007-12-07 William H. Theodore has posted a thoughtful comment noting Adams's anti-Semitism. Edmund Morris, who wrote the introduction to Modern Library edition of "The Education," described Adams as being "paranoid about Jews," and even his bosom friend, Jo...
183 2007-12-07 The owners of hipster music Web site Stereogum, which include former AOL executive Robert Pittman, former MTV digital guru Jason Hirschhorn and founder Scott Lapatine, have signed a deal to flip their equity stakes in the company to BuzzNet.com, T...
184 2007-12-07 Florida's state-run investment pool reopened, and local governments quickly withdrew more than $1.1 billion. The pool was frozen last week amid a run that withdrew almost $10 billion because of worries about investments in mortgage-backed securiti...
185 2007-12-07 The subprime mortgage lender Delta Financial said Thursday that it planned to file soon for bankruptcy protection, after losses mounted and an agreement to obtain financing fell apart. The company, based in Woodbury, N.Y., said that it would stop ...
186 2007-12-07 The council, a mix of city officials and their appointees, includes George C. Wolfe, the former artistic director of the Public Theater, and Paige Price, an actress and producer.

In the proposed deal with the Shubert Organization, the company would sell development rights from two of its playhouses, the Shubert and the Booth, to Gladden Properties, which plans to build a 40-story office building 10 blocks away on Eighth Avenue between 54th and 55th Streets. Gladden is affiliated with Boston Properties, the development company run by Mortimer B. Zuckerman.

Normally, development rights can be transferred only between contiguous properties, but the city made an exception in 1998 to help preserve the theaters. Since then, Broadway theater owners have been allowed to sell their unused development rights, known as air rights, for use anywhere within a 34-block district that stretches from 40th Street north to 57th Street and from Avenue of the Americas to Eighth Avenue.

When that exception was conceived, Broadway was struggling and play producers were fretting about the decline of interest in serious drama. But by the time of the first transfer of any theater’s rights last year, much of that concern had dissipated amid a tourism boom in the city.

Growing demand for apartments and office space on the west side of Midtown drove developers to the doors of the theater owners with offers to buy their air rights at a premium.

The first deals were struck last year with the owners of the Brooks Atkinson and Al Hirschfeld Theaters. At the time, the buyers had to give the theater fund $10 for every square foot of development rights they bought.

All told, developers of three projects, including a 42-story condominium under construction at the corner of 46th Street and Eighth Avenue, have acquired rights from theaters so far. Those transactions produced slightly more than $2.5 million for the fund.

The proposed Shubert deal, which still needs approvals from Community Board 5 and the Department of City Planning, would produce an additional $2.4 million, said Rachaele Raynoff, a spokeswoman for the planning department.

Last year, city officials were pushing to use fund money to help fix up auditoriums in public schools. But some theater professionals argued that the money should instead be used to finance productions of new drama.

Ms. Raynoff said that the council was drafting a protocol for making grants to arts-related organizations, after which it will start soliciting proposals.

The council’s next meeting, which will be open to the public, has not been scheduled, Ms. Raynoff said.
187 2007-12-07 GUANTÁNAMO BAY, Cuba, Dec. 6 — For several years, a slight Yemeni detainee with a wispy beard, Salim Ahmed Hamdan, has been at the center of legal battles challenging the Bush administration’s Guantánamo policies. He was a driver for Osama bin Laden in Afghanistan, and his lawyers have cast him as little more than a low-level employee, a simple man who was just trying to support his wife and daughters.

In a daylong hearing here on Thursday, military prosecutors challenged that image, presenting testimony that Mr. Hamdan told investigators he had sworn an oath to Mr. bin Laden, carried a gun, carted weapons and could barely repress his approval of the terror leader.

In the courtroom here, a prosecutor asked a government investigator, Robert McFadden, how Mr. Hamdan had described his emotions in regard to Mr. bin Laden during interrogations in 2003.

The testimony came during a hearing to determine whether Mr. Hamdan can be defined as an unlawful enemy combatant, which would give prosecutors a green light to proceed with a war crimes trial against him. The military judge did not rule on the question on Thursday.

The hearing was the latest turn in a legal fight that went to the Supreme Court last year and brought one of a series of landmark rulings in the Bush administration’s battles over its detention policies.
188 2007-12-07 CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla., Dec. 6 — NASA officials delayed the launching of the space shuttle Atlantis at least until Saturday after canceling Thursday’s attempt because of problems with a pair of fuel sensors.

Leroy Cain, head of the mission management team, said at an evening news conference that engineers had abandoned the possibility of trying again on Friday.

After spending more than five hours poring over data about the sensor problem, Mr. Cain said his managers needed more time and would go home “to sleep on it.”

A Saturday liftoff would occur at 3:43 p.m. However, Air Force weather forecasters said there was only a 60 percent chance of acceptable weather.

Technicians were about 80 percent finished with loading 500,000 pounds of propellants into the shuttle’s large external fuel tank early Thursday when tests indicated problems with two of four sensors at the base of the liquid hydrogen section. Technicians drained the tank and examined sensor data during the process.
189 2007-12-07 LOS ANGELES, Dec. 6 — A Republican-sponsored ballot measure that would have changed the way the state apportions its 55 electoral votes will not be eligible for the June primary ballot, its sponsors said on Thursday, in spite of promises a few weeks ago that the initiative would get enough money and signatures to do so.

The sponsors now have their eyes on the November ballot.

The proposal has roused strong opposition from Democrats because it would probably transform California from reliably Democratic in presidential elections and hand the Republican nominee roughly 20 votes from Republican strongholds.

The ballot effort was dogged by questions about who was paying for its sponsorship and accusations that signatures were being gathered among residents of Skid Row here.
190 2007-12-07 New York City Transit is not going that far. But it does have a new plan to decentralize the way it runs the subways. The agency announced plans yesterday to subdivide the octopuslike system and make the manager of each line responsible for everything on that line, from bunched-together trains to unintelligible public-address announcements.

Howard H. Roberts Jr., the president of New York City Transit, said this week that giving each line autonomy would lead to faster responses to riders’ complaints and, ultimately, better service.

He said the No. 7 and L lines would try out the new way of doing things, in part because they already have a certain degree of autonomy: They do not share their tracks with any other lines. He said that makes it easier to keep tabs on whether conditions actually improve.

So the idea yesterday was to ask passengers on the No. 7 and L lines what they would do if they were put in charge.

On the No. 7, several passengers said they would order bigger cars. Never mind that subway-line managers’ check-writing authority may not be as big as the passengers’ imagination might want.

Jay Diaz, a piano technician who works in Long Island City, echoed Ms. Muccio: He wants a more dependable schedule on the No. 7. But he is going in the opposite direction — toward Queens in the morning, when Ms. Muccio is heading to Manhattan. Mr. Diaz lives in Washington Heights, so he takes the A train to Times Square and changes to one to Queens.

“I don’t trust the 7 to get me to work the way I trust the E,” he said. “So the first thing I would do is make the 7 more consistent as far as departure times and arrival times.”

On the L, Jeffrey Griffith said he would redesign the cars. “In Japan,” he said, “all the seats on trains flip up. The conductor latches the seats up so at rush hour there is standing room only.”

He also said he would move the poles away from the doors because “people get packed in around the poles—it causes congestion.”

Other passengers on the L said they would put a priority on bringing reality to signs that are supposed to tell riders how long before a train is due. Passengers complained that the signs sometimes say a train will arrive in one minute. They said 15 minutes can tick by before the white eyes of a train appear in the darkness beyond the platform.

Dia Roundtree, a special education teacher who lives in Canarsie, Brooklyn, said that fixing the roofs would be her top priority. At her station on the L line, she said, “if it’s raining or snowing, you’ve got to walk through there with an umbrella, and you don’t know what’s falling on your head. That water is dirty.”

Some passengers said they would emphasize better communication. Asif Javin said that if he were in charge, what happened to him recently would never happen again. He had swiped his MetroCard and headed into the Main Street station, only to find out from a subway worker that the No. 7 was not running.

He said the worker told him he should leave the station and catch a bus. He said the worker did not tell him which bus.

At the bus stop outside, several buses were waiting. It took him a while to figure out the one to board.

Other passengers said they would put a premium on different kinds of communication.

Travis Moe, a New York University student, said that if he ran the L line, he would order “unexpected things” — like having the conductors recite poems as well as deliver their announcements.

Iambic pentameter or heroic couplets? How would Emily Dickinson say, “Watch the closing doors,” anyway? Mr. Moe did not say.

“The thing about subway culture, if you can call it that, is that people don’t talk, they stare at the floor,” he said, adding that presenting “poems instead of information” would change that.
191 2007-12-07 As Theo Epstein, the general manager of the Red Sox, tried for a speed-walking record through the hotel, he said that he would continue to talk with the Twins. Unlike the Yankees, who offered Phil Hughes and Melky Cabrera and gave the Twins an ultimatum for making a deal, the Red Sox have no plans to do that.

“Why would we give any team a deadline to trade one of their players?” Epstein said.

Epstein said “the hardest thing to do in baseball” was to win while also developing a strong minor league system. The Red Sox won the 2007 World Series and have a solid core of young players, so they are succeeding in both departments. The Red Sox may be the team that needs Santana the least.

“If we don’t do anything else in the off-season, we love the position we’re in,” Epstein said. “We can make no deals and still feel good about our young players. But we’d be crazy not to listen.”

Omar Minaya, the Mets’ general manager, is trying to get the Twins to listen, trying to convince them that his prospects are as appealing as those from other clubs. The Mets recommended that the Twins select a package from among outfielders Carlos Gómez and Fernandez Martínez, and pitchers Mike Pelfrey, Philip Humber and Kevin Mulvey. But the Twins have not yet responded, probably because they are not keen on Pelfrey or Humber.

“I’m confident that our players are good enough to get a deal done,” Minaya said.

When Minaya inquired about Haren and Blanton, Beane told him that the Athletics were waiting on other developments before they could speak to the Mets. Beane said that he was not shopping pitchers, but he is clearly listening. To trade Haren or Blanton, two affordable pitchers, Beane would undoubtedly want as much as the Twins want for Santana.

Before the 2007 season, Jones was supposed to be the jewel of the free-agent class, a player who could vault over the $100 million contract barrier. But Jones, a 10-time Gold Glove award winner, hit .222 with 26 homers and 94 runs batted in for Atlanta. So his lackluster season occurred at the worst possible time.

Torii Hunter, another superb defensive center fielder, signed a five-year, $90 million deal with the Los Angeles Angels. While Hunter is talented, Jones, who hit 51 home runs in 2005, has always been considered the superior player. But after a disappointing 2007, Jones was not the best-compensated center fielder. Because Jones signed a two-year deal, he can take another shot as a free agent as a 32-year-old in 2009.

While the Tigers were negotiating with the Marlins to obtain Cabrera and Willis, they were uncertain if they could add the salaries for both players. The Tigers called the Mets to check if they would be interested in taking Willis and catcher Iván Rodríguez as part of a three-team trade.

But soon after the Tigers contacted the Mets, the Tigers’ owner, Mike Ilitch, approved adding both players’ salaries, so Detroit made the deal without involving the Mets. The Tigers are not interested in reopening talks to deal Willis.
192 2007-12-07 “We believe that if everyone takes an approach like this, the magnitude of global warming may be limited to approximately 2 degrees Celsius to 3 degrees Celsius so that the most catastrophic effects of climate change may be off,” said Andrew Brandler, the chief executive of CLP Holdings, according to an advance copy of his statement. Two to three degrees Celsius is equal to 3.6 to 5.4 degrees Fahrenheit.

A United Nations panel warned last month that an increase of even this magnitude could cause a rapid rise in sea levels, as ice sheets melted, and the extinction of many species.

The company’s plan is less ambitious than those of some utilities in Japan and France, which have set much lower emissions targets and already rely heavily on nuclear energy, which produces practically no global-warming gases.

Setting its limit only in terms of carbon dioxide per kilowatt-hour of electricity also means that CLP is not committing itself to reducing its total carbon output, or limiting the amount of electricity it generates.

“If you generate more power, then absolute emissions of carbon dioxide will increase,” said Frances Yeung, an energy campaigner for Greenpeace.

On Thursday, Greenpeace protesters scaled a fly ash silo at one of CLP’s coal-fired power plants and hung a banner reading, “Climate Change Starts Here.”

A CLP spokesman, Carl N. Kitchen, said the company was not limiting its overall emissions because it operates in rapidly growing electricity markets and does not want to limit its options.

As if to underline that, Credit Suisse predicted in a research report Thursday that mainland China’s power consumption would continue growing by 11 to 14 percent a year for the next three to five years. China’s rapid expansion of mostly coal-fired electricity generation is the main reason it has overtaken the United States as the world’s largest emitter of greenhouse gases, according to the International Energy Agency in Paris.

Jeremy Carl, a research fellow specializing in Asian energy issues at Stanford, said it might be better for the environment if CLP did build more power plants, rather than letting other companies meet Asia’s growing needs.

“Certainly they are going to be a lot more efficient than the big mainland power companies” in China, or the electric utilities in India, Mr. Carl said.

CLP estimates that its operations now emit 1.85 pounds of carbon dioxide for each kilowatt-hour of electricity generated. The company’s plan calls for cutting emissions to 1.76 pounds in 2010, 1.54 pounds in 2020, 0.99 pound in 2035 and 0.44 pound in 2050.

By comparison, China’s utilities emit 2.23 pounds a kilowatt-hour, those in the United States, 1.40 pounds and Japan’s, just 0.78 pound, according to data from Carbon Monitoring for Action in Washington, which gathers such data with the goal of drawing attention to climate change.

One reason for the difference is that Japanese utilities rely heavily on nuclear power and natural gas, while most of CLP’s operations are in nations where coal is cheap and abundant, like China, India and Australia, as it is in the United States.

Reaching CLP’s goals could be difficult, as many clean coal technologies either produce only modest reductions in carbon dioxide emissions, are very expensive or are simply not yet technologically feasible. For example, the company’s plan to meet its later targets assumes that it will become possible to capture and sequester the carbon dioxide from coal-fired power plants. But the technology to do so is still under development and could prove costly even if perfected.

The company also plans to use more natural gas, which produces less soot and carbon dioxide than coal. It has sought government permission in Hong Kong to build a liquefied natural gas terminal in a marine conservation area with fairly deep water, situated close to power plants.
193 2007-12-07 Just one form of real estate partner income, known as a 1231 gain after a section of the tax code, totaled $181.3 billion in 2005, up 87 percent over 2004. The actual gain, Mr. Curnutt said, was at least $232 billion and probably much more.

This form of income, for gains on previously depreciated real estate, is subject to a 25 percent capital gains tax rate. Tens of billions of dollars of such gains go untaxed each year, Mr. Curnutt said, because they are either not reported at all or are misreported as long-term capital gains and taxed at a 15 percent rate.

Mr. Curnutt says that cheating by real estate partners is as easy to stop as it is to do.

During his career at the I.R.S., Mr. Curnutt won multiple awards for finding ways to identify investment partners who cheat on their taxes. He once showed how an investment of just $10 in a partnership cost the government about $350 million in taxes.

One of Mr. Curnutt’s principal findings is that audits of real estate partnerships are effective only if done in the year that property is sold or traded.

The reason is that real estate partnerships typically report little or no profit for the 20 years or more that the property is being depreciated. It is only when the property is sold or traded that the partnership reports an income.

Partnerships themselves do not pay taxes. Instead, the obligation flows through to individual investors.

But while Congress requires that employers, banks and other institutions verify the wages and major deductions reported by most taxpayers, it trusts real estate partners to report their income fully without independent verification, except for audits. Last year, the I.R.S. thoroughly audited just one in 356 partnerships.

A leading tax lawyer, Richard M. Lipton, a partner at Baker & McKenzie in Chicago, noted that partnerships and similar structures, rather than corporate structures, now dominate in smaller enterprises.

“Do I believe that many small businesses cut some corners in reporting things? You betcha,” Mr. Lipton said. “Do I think that it is more likely this occurs in partnerships than corporations? Of course.”

In 2006, there were nearly 1.3 million real estate partnerships, with more than 6 million partners, I.R.S. reports show. More than 80 percent of reported partnership income goes to taxpayers making more than $200,000 annually.

Mr. Lipton said he agreed with Mr. Curnutt that it would be easy to detect such cheating if auditors were directed to focus on the issue and time their audits appropriately.

But while the I.R.S. gave Mr. Curnutt multiple awards for identifying ways to catch partnership cheats, and he ran seminars for both I.R.S. and state tax auditors to teach his techniques, it never adopted his audit strategy.

The I.R.S. did execute Mr. Curnutt’s plan to give the states data needed to identify tax cheating among real estate partners.

Mr. Curnutt singled out New York State tax officials for not using that data, even though New York defines income almost exactly the same way the federal government does, making it easy to mine the I.R.S. reports.

Jeffrey Gordon, spokesman for the state budget division, said that New York had 400 auditors working on all types of partnerships and that their work identified about $500 million annually in unpaid taxes and interest. He said no breakdown was available on what types of partnerships were caught in audits.

Mr. Curnutt said that $500 million might be due from real estate partnerships alone, which constitute about a fourth of all partnership assets.

Mr. Curnutt offered to help 29 states, including New York, ferret out tax cheats, working for expenses and earning a modest fee only if he found significant amounts of untaxed or undertaxed income. Only one state, Pennsylvania, retained Mr. Curnutt, though it ranked far down on his list of states where tax reporting rules made such cheating a particular problem. Pennsylvania just renewed his contract for the fifth time.

Mr. Curnutt said an official in one state, Kentucky, told him his offer was rejected in part because the people likely to be caught cheating were also likely to be campaign contributors.

The I.R.S. said it was aware of the problem, regarded it as a priority and was working on it.

Bruce I. Friedland, an I.R.S. spokesman, said that the agency had “concerns about problems in the partnership arena, and we have been steadily increasing our audit attention in this area.”

When a modern database to store all tax return information becomes fully operational, probably by 2012, the I.R.S. will be able to use statistical techniques to better identify cheats, said Richard Spires, the deputy commissioner who oversees I.R.S. technology.

Currently the I.R.S. uses four-decade-old software that requires searching through every taxpayer file to find information on any specific taxpayer or partnership, a cumbersome and time-consuming process.
194 2007-12-07 TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) — Florida’s state-run investment pool reopened, and local governments quickly withdrew more than $1.1 billion. The pool was frozen last week amid a run that withdrew almost $10 billion because of worries about investments in mortgage-backed securities.

The withdrawals amounted to about 8 percent of the $14 billion pool, state officials said, and were expected because of the pent-up need governments had for cash after being unable to access their money for a week. The run dropped the pool to under $15 billion, from about $25 billion, before it was frozen last Thursday.

Some local government investors said they had lost faith in the fund, which works like a money market account, and moved immediately to take out their money. But some of the biggest investors kept their money in the pool — the biggest of its kind in the country.

State officials characterized the day’s activity as a positive, insisting that the withdrawals were less than they’d anticipated and noting that the fund was “well able to handle” them.

“There is no run,” said Tara Klimek, a spokeswoman for Alex Sink, the state’s chief financial officer, who is a member of the board that oversees state investments.

Ms. Klimek also noted that a few deposits were actually made into the account, although new money coming in only totaled $7 million.
195 2007-12-07 The discussions have not been easy. As concern about the safety of Chinese products rose, American negotiators said that the Chinese raised concerns of their own and began imposing new safety restrictions on imported food and other products, possibly in retaliation.

“When we raise a food safety issue, they claim they have food safety issues with us,” said a Bush administration trade official, speaking anonymously as is customary when negotiations are under way. “They try to raise an equivalent number of issues, but their concerns are not as concrete as ours.”

For example, last summer China proposed extensive new inspections for American medical equipment, like patient monitors and surgical implants, but did not impose the same treatment for similar domestic products. The Bush administration cried foul and hopes to get the proposal revised next week.

In addition, American officials say that the Chinese have imposed “extreme requirements” for inspection of American beef for mad cow disease, poultry for possible salmonella traces and pork for chemical additives. The acting agriculture secretary, Charles F. Connor, is trying to negotiate a more flexible regime.

Michael O. Leavitt, secretary of health and human services and head of an administration review of American product safety standards, said in a speech this week that the agreements would cover food, animal feed, medical devices and drugs to ensure that imports meet “American standards” of quality and safety.

An “action plan” on import safety was started by President Bush last month, calling for greater efforts to prevent tainted goods from American trade partners, improved certification of imports and American training to help other countries build safety inspection capabilities.

But department spokesmen say that details for putting these goals in place with the Chinese have not been worked out. It is not clear, for instance, what sort of onsite inspections or training the Chinese might permit or whether China is prepared to ease its safety standards on imports from the United States.

Many people in Washington, especially in Congress, view the latest talks as a test for Mr. Paulson.

Since the dialogue began, disagreements with China have actually multiplied. The Commerce Department and the United States trade representative’s office have taken China to court at the World Trade Organization, charging it with a failure to enforce laws against piracy and counterfeiting of goods and trademarks.

Last month, the Chinese settled a separate dispute before the World Trade Organization and agreed to terminate a dozen kinds of subsidies and tax rebates that the United States had charged were unfairly promoting Chinese exports and discouraging imports.

Two sets of talks occur next week. Mr. Paulson is to lead the dialogue with several cabinet members, including the commerce secretary, Carlos T. Gutierrez, and the top American trade envoy, Susan C. Schwab. But before their session, aides to Mr. Gutierrez and Ms. Schwab are to discuss specific “market access” issues.

Officials said these include objections to proposed standards and requirements that would restrict access for American cellphones and telecommunications services and the expansion of operations of express delivery services like FedEx and DHL.

China is irritated that in many of these areas, the United States has threatened or imposed duties or taken China to court at the World Trade Organization. But Mr. Gutierrez and Ms. Schwab say their approach of litigating disputes and negotiating them at the same time has produced results.

Mr. Paulson said the meetings next week would also be a test for Chinese leaders installed last fall. He noted that China was also under increasing pressure from Europeans to let its currency, the yuan, appreciate, to modify trade imbalances.

On the issue of overhauling China’s capital markets to remove curbs on foreign investors and joint ventures, he said “there’s been progress with almost every sector of the financial services industry, but it’s been incremental progress.”

“I frankly can’t conceive of anything that would be a better substitute for having two major global economies having a forum where we can make progress on the most important economic issues,” Mr. Paulson said.
196 2007-12-07 The subprime mortgage lender Delta Financial Corporation said yesterday that it planned to file soon for bankruptcy protection, after losses mounted and an agreement to obtain financing fell apart.

The company, based in Woodbury, N.Y., said that it would stop taking mortgage applications, and that it did not believe it could continue as a going concern.

Delta would join more than a dozen other mortgage lenders to file for bankruptcy this year amid the housing downturn.

In a statement, Delta said its warehouse lenders had notified it of events of default under its financing agreements, after the company was unable to sell some loans.

As a result, Delta said it expected to abandon plans to raise $100 million by selling senior notes and common stock to an affiliate of one of its largest shareholders, Angelo, Gordon & Company. Angelo Gordon would have taken a majority stake.

Founded in 1982, Delta made loans through its own retail offices and a network of about 3,200 independent brokers. It said it made $3.4 billion of mortgage loans from January to September, of which 95.8 percent carried fixed rates.
197 2007-12-07 How easily the memory plays tricks. Or does it? The Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater made a nearly abstract piece of Talley Beatty’s classic “Road of the Phoebe Snow” on Wednesday night at City Center. And the company performed Ailey’s “River” as if it were anything but the sometimes pallid-seeming exercise in choreographing for a ballet troupe. Still, on Saturday afternoon Ailey’s “Night Creature” looked like its sly familiar self, even with Alicia J. Graf giving the work a slightly unfamiliar twist.

“The Road of the Phoebe Snow,” whose title alludes to the Lackawanna Railroad, is a near-perfect example of how Beatty, who died in 1995, let dramatic or narrative elements seep through ballet-influenced jazz dance.

He became a more overt storyteller in some later pieces, like “The Stack Up.” But “Phoebe Snow,” choreographed in 1959 to music by Duke Ellington and Billy Strayhorn, is a smooth, swift flow of highly charged dancing, often crossing and recrossing the stage. Embedded gesture and eventually two duets suggest, then powerfully tell the stories of the men and women who live on the wrong side of those tracks.

But the storytelling in this restaging by Masazumi Chaya is more subtle than I remember, until the two climactic duets. One, danced by Glenn Allen Sims and Briana Reed, has the brutality of a rape but for the shrugging complicity of the two. Clifton Brown and Linda Celeste Sims, who perform the second duet, are innocent lovers whose romantic idealism leads to the actual rape of Ms. Sims’s character.

The clarity and punch of Beatty’s choreographic style are fully evident in this restaging. But so, remarkably, is the relatively subdued narrative undercurrent. Mr. Chaya, Mr. Sims and Ms. Reed suggest the pain of today’s wrong-siders, despairingly and savagely angry at those who are able to rise above misery.

“The River” was commissioned in 1970 by American Ballet Theater and looks like a choreographic challenge, with Ailey even falling back on shamelessly quoting himself from “Revelations.” But the ballet looked more vivid on Wednesday, colored by dancers’ individual styles and presences — and perhaps a few new bits of dramatic business — as much as by Ailey’s classical approach to the Ellington score.
198 2007-12-07 Designed with horse lovers in mind, this 1,650-square-foot house in Galena Territory is offered furnished and is decorated with a western motif. It is on more than two acres zoned for horses and is near the Territory's riding center. Agent: Jon Ch...
199 2007-12-07 This 1,134-square-foot cottage is 160 years old and is on about a tenth of an acre. The house has an exposed interior stone wall, a renovated kitchen, a fireplace and a deck. Downtown Galena is just a short-but-hilly walk away. There are one and a...
200 2007-12-07 BUSH PLAN IS NO BAILOUT  President Bush's plan to help people trapped by the mortgage meltdown is a cautious, industry-led effort, not a government bailout. It  leaves plenty of wiggle room for lenders. News Analysis.        Many homeowners who ar...
201 2007-12-07 NEW YORK ANIME FESTIVAL   This celebration of Japanese anime culture -- the first of what's planned to be an annual event --  is  intended to be even more interactive than most pop culture conventions. The festival, to be held this weekend at the ...
202 2007-12-07 This 2,800-square-foot house is on more than 30 acres. It has three and a half bathrooms, a spacious kitchen with cherry cabinets and stainless-steel appliances, and a solarium that is off the master bedroom. Agent: Donald Busch, Preferred Propert...
203 2007-12-08 (Greg Kadel) We figured that with all the talk on this blog about Art Basel Miami, it was our responsibility to explore the other side of things. Many of our friends, the kids that seem to be getting much of the art world's attention at the moment...
204 2007-12-08 The charges exposed a murky underworld of penny stocks, a longtime staple of boiler rooms running illegal pump-and-dump schemes. Such shares trade over the counter, rather than on an exchange.

In each of the cases, company insiders or stock promoters tried to build support for their share prices by making a deal with the undercover hedge fund manager to buy large stakes of shares. In return, the insiders would pay the hedge fund manager a kickback, usually 25 to 35 percent of the total purchase price, the prosecutors said.

In each instance, the agent insisted he had to hide the transaction from his hedge fund clients — because of a “fiduciary obligation” to them, leading the parties to execute a fake consulting agreement with a fake company, Global Connect Services. “This case illustrates the commission’s ability to work together with criminal authorities in creative ways to uncover fraudulent schemes and to protect our markets,” said Linda Chatman Thomsen, director of the S.E.C.’s division of enforcement.

The five suspected penny-stock schemes were remarkably similar. In mid-April, prosecutors say, Virgil G. Williams, the 59-year-old chief executive of Asgard Holdings, a Nevada-based investment firm, contacted the agent posing as a hedge fund manager and asked him to buy Asgard Holdings shares.

Mr. Williams agreed to pay the agent 25 percent of the price of the transaction as a kickback, the prosecutors said. The next day, Mr. Williams contacted his broker to make sure that the broker accepted the appropriate bid in the marketplace, the complaint says.

The agent told Mr. Williams he had a fiduciary duty to his hedge fund requiring that he hide the kickback. As a result, the complaint charges, the agent and Mr. Williams agreed to set up a fake consulting agreement to hide the bribe.

But then the operation almost went awry. On April 24, the agent and the stock owner talked about the transaction and agreed to the terms, but the next day, the seller said he was uncomfortable with the deal and did not want to do anything illegal. Two days later, Mr. Williams rescinded the offer because he thought he was part of a sting operation, the complaint says.

In late July, Mr. Williams contacted the agent again to do the deal. In August, the agent used an E-Trade account to buy two million shares of Asgard Holdings at $0.015 a share. In the preceding month, only 172,00 shares had been traded.

A few days later, a Florida corporation believed to be controlled by Mr. Williams wired $7,500 to the agent’s fake consulting firm.

In a separate scheme, according to the complaint, the agent entered into a deal with William L. Haynes, a 42-year-old Palm City, Fla., resident and stock promoter, to have the hedge fund buy shares in Environmental Service, a home environmental inspection company.

The agent bought one million shares of the company. Prosecutors said he had agreed to receive a kickback of 35 percent, which included a 2.5 percent kickback to Efrim Gjonbalaj, a colleague of Mr. Haynes who introduced the two.

After receiving a $532.68 payment, Mr. Gjonbalaj returned the money to the agent with a letter saying he did not recall participating in any dealing with the agent, prosecutors said.

Many of the schemes involved individuals with past regulatory infractions. Mr. Haynes was enjoined by the S.E.C. in 2001 in a fraud case associated with a $7 million stock offering and barred from associating with a broker- dealer. A defendant named in the civil suit, Vincent Cammarata, is on supervised release after serving time in federal prison on drug-related charges.

Other criminal defendants include Ron Williams, 57, of Miami; Mark Foglia, 52, of Hypoluxo, Fla., and Rex Morden, 57, of Henderson, Nev.

If convicted, Mr. Haynes faces a fine of $5 million and 25 years in jail while the others face 20 years in jail and potential fines of $250,000 to $500,000.

The other civil defendant is Sean Sheehan.

Lawyers for the defendants could not be reached for comment.
205 2007-12-08 Such works answered the need felt in postwar Europe for reconstruction and logic, the logic to forestall any recurrence of war and genocide. They made Mr. Stockhausen a beacon to younger composers. Along with a few other musicians of his generation, notably Pierre Boulez and Luigi Nono, he had an enormous influence. Though performances of his works were never plentiful, his music was promoted by radio stations in Germany and abroad as well as by the record company Deutsche Grammophon, and he gave lectures all over the world.

By the 1960s his influence had reached rock musicians, and he was an international subject of acclaim and denigration.

The intellectual and physical excitement of his earlier music diminished in the later 1960s, when he devoted himself largely to performing semi-improvised music with a chosen group of performers. The tone of his lectures and essays also changed. Earlier he had based his thinking on psychoacoustics and the nature of musical time; now he presented himself as the receiver of messages about a spiritual drama being played out in the cosmos.

Between 1977 and 2002, he concentrated his creative efforts on “Light,” a cycle of seven operas intended to bring that cosmic drama to the human stage. The project was extravagantly egomaniacal. Mr. Stockhausen devised the music, the scenario and the words for his operas, and he made stipulations about sets, costumes and lighting. During the period of “Light” and after, Mr. Stockhausen was venerated within his own circle of performers and family members (often the same people) but largely ignored outside it. His home at Kuerten, which he designed, became the center of a publishing, recording and promoting enterprise removed from the wider world. Formerly a star, he had turned into a guru.

Karlheinz Stockhausen was born on Aug. 22, 1928, near Cologne, the first child of Simon Stockhausen, a schoolteacher, and his wife, Gertrud. His mother began suffering deep depressions when he was still a boy and was committed to a mental hospital, where, according to Mr. Stockhausen, she was “officially killed” in 1941. His father later volunteered for the army and was killed in Hungary.

The young Mr. Stockhausen himself served as an orderly to a military hospital during the last year of World War II, after which he studied at the State Academy of Music in Cologne. He took composition lessons from Frank Martin, but his training was as a music teacher. He also played jazz in Cologne bars, directed an amateur operetta theater and, as he later remembered, “prayed a lot.”

His ambitions changed in July 1951, when he attended a summer music course at Darmstadt and heard a recording of Olivier Messiaen’s piano piece “Mode of Values and Intensities,” which he described as “incredible star music.” On his return to Cologne, he began studying the music of Messiaen, writing his own similarly conceived work, “Crossplay,” for piano, percussion and two wind instruments.

As “Crossplay” shows, he understood at once how Messiaen’s single notes could be organized by applying Schoenberg’s serial principle to every dimension of sound: pitch, duration, loudness and tone color. A few formal rules would be set up, and the notes would fall into patterns as of themselves. Here his admiration for Hermann Hesse joined with his intense Roman Catholic faith to give him confidence in a kind of music that would be new and pure, reflecting the unity of the divine creation.

He arrived in Paris in January 1952 and stayed 14 months, during which he wrote two big orchestral scores; “Counter-Points,” an exuberant ensemble piece with instrumental flourishes; and the first four of a continuing series of piano pieces. He also composed his first electronic piece. When he went back to Cologne, it was to assist in the foundation of an electronic music studio, as well as to marry his student sweetheart, Doris Andreae, with whom he had four children during the next decade: Christel, Suja, Markus and Majella.

Between 1953 and 1955, he wrote more piano pieces (influenced by a first meeting with John Cage and with Cage’s regular pianist, David Tudor) and two electronic studies. Then came works on a more public scale: “Song of the Youths” and “Groups.” He was attracted by the idea that pitch, timbre, rhythm and even musical form could all be understood as forms of vibration, and by the notion of an entire musical work as a kind of photographic blowup of a single sound or sequence of sounds.

The first performance of “Groups,” in 1958, confirmed his dominant position within the European avant-garde. But he kept moving on. His music became slower and more enveloping in the electronic “Contacts” (1960) and in “Moments” for solo soprano, choir, brass, percussion and electric organs (1964). At the same time, his Catholic piety began giving way to a broader spirituality that embraced Eastern thought. He also fell in love with the American visual artist Mary Bauermeister. He divorced his first wife to marry her in 1967; they had two children, Simon and Julike.

His first visit to Japan, in 1966, was crucial to his artistic development. He was impressed by traditional Japanese culture and gained an awareness of himself as an artist in a global context. In Tokyo he composed the electronic piece “Telemusic,” in which recordings of music from around the world are made to intermingle. On his return to Cologne, he produced “Anthems” (1967), an electronic composition based on national anthems. For a few years after that, much of his work was devised for his own live-electronic performing group.

Working with his chosen musicians, he simplified his notation, until, in “From the Seven Days” (May 1968), he was offering his players only a text on which to meditate in performance. He spoke not of improvisation but of “intuitive music,” the idea being that his words would guide the performers to a metaphysical connection with music beyond themselves.

With “Mantra” for two pianos and electronics (1970) he returned to precise notation and introduced a new style, in which entire compositions were to be elaborated from basic melodies. The method gave him the means to fill long stretches of time, and from then on his major works were of full-evening length. They included “Starsound” for several groups in a public park (1971) and“Inori” for orchestra (1974).

Once again, a turn in Mr. Stockhausen’s music coincided with a new page in his emotional life. In 1974 the American clarinetist Suzanne Stephens entered his entourage, and she remained his companion to the end, joined from the early 1980s by the Dutch flutist Kathinka Pasveer. These two, along with his son Markus, a trumpeter, and his son Simon, on saxophone and synthesizer, gave him a new ensemble.

They also became the central performers of “Light”: Markus, who shared his father’s striking good looks, as the hero Michael; Ms. Stephens or Ms. Pasveer as the lover-mother figure, Eva; and often a trombonist as Lucifer, the spirit of negation.

The first three “Light” operas were introduced by La Scala, the next two by the Leipzig Opera; the remaining two have not been staged. Mr. Stockhausen’s final project was “Sound,” a sequence of compositions for the 24 hours of the day.

Mr. Stockhausen is survived by his companions, his six children and several grandchildren.

Right from his early 20s he never doubted that he was a great composer, and this conviction guided all his actions. It made him authoritarian in his dealings with others, whether fellow musicians or administrators. It pulled him through the creative challenges he set for himself as a young man. But it left him an isolated figure at the end.
206 2007-12-08 Investigators visited the commission’s office in Lower Manhattan in mid-October to obtain copies of documents, but have not interviewed any employees, Mr. De Maria said. “It came out of the blue,” Mr. De Maria said. “We don’t really know anything.”

The commission has 102 employees and an annual budget of more than $8 million.

The investigation was reported yesterday in The Star-Ledger of Newark, but did not include details on the scope and nature of the inquiry.

However, a person with knowledge of how the commission operates said that patronage was well established at the agency and that candidates were routinely hired as police officers even if they were unqualified or failed examinations several times.

“They referred people who were barely qualified to the point where they were pushing their own people,” said the source, who spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of retribution.

Mr. De Maria said that police recruits were brought to the attention of the commission in a variety of ways, and that their résumés were forwarded to the police chief.

“As a rule, you have to pass a police exam to be processed further,” he said.

In addition, a commissioner of the agency, Michael J. Madonna, was president of the New Jersey State Policemen’s Benevolent Association at the same time, in a potential conflict of interest, according to the person with knowledge of the commission’s operations.

But Mr. De Maria said that Mr. Madonna’s term as head of the benevolent association ended in September, and that holding those roles simultaneously did not pose a conflict.

“These allegations have never been communicated by the New York inspector general in connection with the investigation,” said Angelo J. Genova, a lawyer representing Mr. Madonna. “Commissioner Madonna welcomes any inquiry into the Waterfront Commission because he has the highest confidence in the procedures of the agency.”

The government official, who also insisted on anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the investigation, said the authorities were also looking into accusations that the commission “inappropriately” spent agency money.

Mr. De Maria said he could not comment on the allegations because he did not know the specifics.

The commission was created in 1953 to battle deeply rooted corruption at the Port of New York and New Jersey, publicized during hearings held by the New York State Crime Commission. Corruption on the docks provided the backdrop for the 1954 movie “On the Waterfront,” starring Brando as a dockworker.

With the advent of container ships several years later, business was quickly mechanized and, in time, moved out of Manhattan and Brooklyn, where there was limited room for the large corrugated containers, to New Jersey and other ports along the East Coast.

The number of union stevedores who loaded and unloaded freight also declined, although the commission still overseas 7,000 dockworkers in the area.

The commission says cargo theft, along with attempts at hiring workers with criminal records, remains a problem on the docks.
207 2007-12-08 Norval Morrisseau, also known as Copper Thunderbird, one of Canada’s most celebrated painters and an important influence in the development of North American indigenous art, died Tuesday in Toronto. He was thought to be 75, though his birth year has been listed as both 1931 and 1932.

The cause was complications of Parkinson’s disease, said the Assembly of First Nations, which represents Canadian Native tribes.

Mr. Morrisseau, an Ojibwa (also called Anishnaabe or Chippewa) shaman, was one of the first native painters to adopt modernist styles to convey traditional aboriginal imagery and to have a crossover career in contemporary art. His style, which became known as Woodland or Legend painting, evoked ancient etchings from birch-bark scrolls and often used X-ray-like motifs: skeletal elements and internal organs visible within the forms of animals and people, and black spirit lines emanating from them.

“Saturated with startling, often contrasting colors, such paintings appear to vibrate under the viewer’s gaze,” said the National Gallery of Canada, which organized a retrospective of Mr. Morrisseau’s work in 2006, the first solo show for a native artist in the institution’s history. It is now on view in Lower Manhattan through Jan. 20 at the George Gustav Heye Center, part of the Smithsonian’s National Museum of the American Indian.

Of a 2001 New York show at the Drawing Center of Mr. Morrisseau’s drawings, made on sheets of paper towels while he was in jail in Canada in the late 1960s, Holland Cotter of The New York Times wrote: “The results aren’t ingratiating or beautiful. Like visionary work in many cultures, they’re aggressive, sometimes violent, as much about fearfulness as about transcendence.”

Born Jean-Baptiste Norman Henry Morrisseau in northern Ontario, he was the eldest son in a family of seven and was raised, according to tradition, by his maternal grandparents. His grandmother was Catholic, and his grandfather, whom he described as his most important influence, was a shaman. Their discordant views formed the background for much of his early life and his development as a self-taught artist working between two worlds.
208 2007-12-08 My sister-in-law, Jan, said she was not even contemplating trading houses, but was perusing www.craigslist.org, looking for bicycles. The heading “house swaps” intrigued her, and she found a family of four from New York interested in coming to Santa Barbara for the holidays.

“I e-mailed him and described our house,” she said. “He sent pictures and I sent pictures. I was a little nervous — who knows if the pictures he’s sending are really his house?”

The deal was sealed, however, and they sent off keys to each other.

“In September I didn’t know them, and in December I was living in their house,” Jan said. “But it turned out fabulous.”

To Mr. Jaffe, “it’s baffling that so few people do home exchanges,” he said. “Hundreds of millions of people travel and only tens of thousands of people do home swapping.”

There are two major obstacles, he said. One is the bed issue.

Or as my friend Nancy put it: “I’d be happy to sleep in someone else’s house. It’s different having someone sleeping in your bed.”

Since Jan rented out their home in the past, she is over the slightly squeamish thought of a stranger snuggling up in her sheets.

And as far as staying in someone else’s boudoir, “When you go to a hotel, who knows who’s been sleeping in that bed?” she said.

The other worry, of course, is that you may end up with a nut who steals your silver, burns down the kitchen, or throws all-night keg parties.

Overwhelmingly, though, home-exchange organizations say that negative experiences are rare, even when you consider that people often throw in bicycles or cars as part of the deal.

“By the time you make the exchanges, generally the people are not strangers,” Mr. Jaffe said, because you have been sending e-mail messages and perhaps phoning each other a number of times.

House exchanges started in an organized fashion in the 1950s with academics looking to switch houses as a cheap way to travel or for sabbatical leaves.

From then until the advent of the widespread use of the Internet in the late 1990s, exchanges were done by leafing through catalogs filled with descriptions of the houses alongside a postage-size photo. Intervac still does a small business in catalogs.

The second boon, after the Internet, was the 2006 movie “The Holiday,” with Cameron Diaz, Kate Winslet, Jude Law and Jack Black. The premise is a Los Angeles-to-England house swap where much merriment ensues.

“It featured our Web site and we started getting a lot of press,” said Ed Kushins, president of Home Exchange. “Our business doubled since the movie came out.”

Although, like Jan, you can find a trade free on sites like craigslist.org, the membership exchange sites offer more protection, Mr. Jaffe said.

Intervac charges $95 for a year, which allows you to arrange as many swaps as you like. The money is reimbursed after a year if you made a good-faith effort to swap and were not successful.

On Intervac, which has 20,000 members in the database, half of them active, he said, you can view listings free, but have to be a member to contact anyone. The same is true for Home Exchange (www.homeexchange.com), with 18,500 members. It charges $99.95 annually, and if you do not find a swap, the second year is free.

On other sites, like www.digsville.com ($44.95 for the year) or International Home Exchange (www.ihen.com and $39.95 annual membership), you pay to list your home, but can contact people free.

Helen Bergstein, founder and president of Digsville, said her organization had 2,500 paid members and 11,000 guest members.

Although home exchangers stress the positive aspects, Mr. Jaffe said that in the many years his company had been around, there had been some problems.

“Occasionally you just have jerks,” he said. “Someone who will drive your car from New York to Florida without permission. Someone who calls home to France without using a calling card. A kid drops food on the upholstery and they don’t clean up.”

Although home-exchange companies say your home insurance and car insurance should cover any exchanges, Jeanne M. Salvatore, a spokeswoman with the Insurance Information Institute, urged anyone considering the option to call their insurance company to find out if extra coverage is necessary.

“Make sure you have enough liability if anyone gets hurt,” she said.

Ms. Bergstein said the community created by her Web site — a forum, a monthly newsletter and repeat customers — ensures that any bad apples are quickly discovered.

“A couple of years ago, someone from Italy said, ‘You can have our house,’ and then at the last minute it was not available, but you can rent the house next door,” she said. After a few incidents like that, “they were off the site.”

The most common problem is with what Ms. Bergstein called “housekeeping styles.” To make sure, as she says, “we keep Oscar and Felix apart,” her Web site now has a place where you can note your degree of tidiness by checking, “You can eat off the floor,” “Don’t even think about eating off the floor,” or “Company is coming, better clean.”

If you are lucky, you will end up swapping with someone like Martine Poulin, who lives outside of Quebec City and has enjoyed numerous successful exchanges in Canada and Europe.

“We leave things people can read about the area,” she said. “We also leave flowers and a bottle of wine.”

She is currently looking for a last-minute exchange in New York City over the holidays.

Did I mention we are just a short train ride away?
209 2007-12-08 The first federal permit to conduct testing for a wave energy farm off the coast of the United States was awarded in February to a company that wants to study the ocean area near Reedsport, Ore., 60 miles south of here. Three more permits have since been approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.

Major technical and financial obstacles remain, and energy generated from waves is not expected to start contributing to the electrical grid in the United States for several years. Yet like wind energy in its early stages in the 1980s, wave energy is considered promising, perhaps inevitable, with the potential to one day provide 5 percent to 10 percent of the nation’s energy supply, according to some projections.

Oregon, Washington and Northern California, where the Pacific Ocean first meets land in the contiguous United States after gathering momentum for thousands of miles beneath westerly winds, have the potential to generate four times as much energy from waves as states on the East Coast, according to studies by the Electric Power Research Institute.

All of the permits approved have been in Oregon, where transmission lines run close to the coast, making them easier to tap into, and where state government encourages businesses to explore new forms of energy.

With state support, Oregon State University is testing a wave energy buoy it plans to deploy off the coast here next spring.

Finavera Renewables, a Canadian company with an office in Portland, has conducted tests near the Yaquina Head lighthouse here, and has a permit to do more testing near Coos Bay. Ocean Power Technologies, the company planning the project near Reedsport, has received a preliminary permit to test the potential for a wave farm it says could generate up to 50 megawatts of electricity. A typical coal-burning plant produces about 600 megawatts.

Several kinds of technology are being tested. Some would use buoys that hold turbines turned by waves. One type being tested at Oregon State would create energy from the relative movement between a fixed spar and a buoy that rises and falls with waves.

The Reedsport project could transmit energy to shore through an outflow pipe once used by a now-defunct timber mill. That convergence of old economy and new reflects what supporters of wave energy say is fitting symmetry for a region that has evolved from an extraction-based economy built on logging to one striving to use natural resources in ways that are environmentally sound.

But some environmentalists and fishermen worry that the recent rush for renewable energy is more about politics, big business and the next big thing than it is about clean energy. They warn that too little is known about what effect wave farms might have on migrating fish and whales.

“The tendency with new technology is always to minimize the downside,” said Ms. Recht, of the fisheries commission, which works with conservation agencies and the fishing industry to protect fish populations. “I’m not prepared to take new risks unless we’re conserving and respecting the energy we already have.”

Nancy Fitzpatrick, the administrator of the Oregon Salmon Commission, which is financed by the fishing industry, said: “Is it going to impact us? Going way back to the dams, we find out later that of course, yes, it affected salmon and migration. So we don’t want to be stuck in a situation like that with wave energy.”

For now, wave parks are expected to be built two or three miles offshore and cover as much as several square miles. Supporters say they will barely be visible, if at all.

Philip D. Moeller, a member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and a supporter of wave and tidal energy projects, said the government was “not allowing these to go into sensitive areas.” Mr. Moeller added, “We haven’t defined sensitive area, but the point is we’ll be cognizant of that.”

He said the commission was encouraging wave energy companies to seek a new five-year “pilot license” the commission has created specifically for wave and tidal energy projects. The license, which could be gained in six months, would let companies set up a short-term wave farm to test technology and demonstrate success to wary investors. If environmental damage became evident, he said, the equipment could be removed from the ocean fairly quickly, something that is far more complicated with dams.

“Let’s get this stuff in the water and find out what it has to offer,” Mr. Moeller said. “Consumers want green power, and this is an option.”
210 2007-12-08 Macrovision, in an effort to position itself at the forefront of the digital platform business, has agreed to buy the television listings provider Gemstar-TV Guide International for $2.8 billion in cash and stock.

Macrovision’s roots are in the prevention of unauthorized copying and viewing of media content. Fred Amoroso, chief executive of Macrovision, said Gemstar-TV Guide’s most valuable assets were its technologies for interactive program guides and its relationships with cable operators.

Mr. Amoroso said the combined company would seek to be “the home page for the TV experience.”

In the last year, Macrovision has also acquired Mediabolic, a developer of digital home software, and All Media Guide Holdings, which provides entertainment data. With the purchases, Macrovision is betting that the television, not the personal computer, will be the hub for home entertainment experiences.

“They now have all the necessary pieces to put together a core media platform,” said Andrew Hargreaves, an analyst with Pacific Crest Securities. “If they’re able to put it together, they effectively have an end-to-end solution for the set-top box market and cable operators.”

Macrovision will raise $800 million of new debt to finance the acquisition. Mike Olson, an analyst with Piper Jaffray, expressed confidence about Macrovision’s core businesses but said the purchase came as a big surprise.
211 2007-12-08 WASHINGTON, Dec. 7 (AP) — Howard J. Krongard, the embattled State Department inspector general who has been accused of impeding a Justice Department investigation of Blackwater Worldwide and other inquiries, announced his resignation on Friday.

He said a poisonous political atmosphere in Washington was discouraging people from careers in public service.

Mr. Krongard told President Bush in a letter that he would quit effective Jan. 15. He released a brief public statement that said his recent Congressional testimony and correspondence had given ample documentation of the reasons for his departure. “I have nothing further to say at this time,” the statement said.

In November, Mr. Krongard was forced to disqualify himself from inquiries into Blackwater Worldwide, a private contractor that protects American diplomats in Iraq, after he disclosed during a Congressional hearing that his brother, Alvin, had joined the company’s advisory board.

Blackwater is being investigated for allegations that its employees smuggled weapons into Iraq and for a Sept. 16 shooting in Baghdad in which company guards killed 17 Iraqis.
212 2007-12-08 BUYER TO CLOSE COMPUSA  CompUSA, the consumer-electronics retailer owned by the Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim, said it was acquired by the restructuring firm Gordon Brothers Group, which plans to close or sell its 103 stores.     CompUSA stores ...
213 2007-12-09 Two missionaries-in-training were killed early today and two more were wounded when a gunman burst into a residence hall at the Youth With a Mission center in the Denver suburb of Arvada, the police said.

Police officials said they did not know whether the shooting was at random of if individuals were targeted. The gunman is still being sought.

“He entered the facility, opened fire and four of the youth inside that facility were injured,” said Susan Medina, a spokeswoman for the Arvada Police Department in a broadcast interview.

Those killed were identified by Youth With a Mission as Tiffany Johnson, 26, of Minnesota and Philip Crouse, 24, of Alaska, news organizations in the Denver area reported. The more seriously wounded man is Dan Griebenow,24, of South Dakota, who has a bullet in his neck and is listed in critical but stable condition. The fourth victim, Charlie Blanch, 22, had bullet wounds to a leg.

Peter Warren, director of Denver operations for the group, was quoted by the Denver television station KUSA as saying a Christmas banquet was just ending as the gunman showed up and asked Ms. Johnson if he could stay for the night. When he was refused, Mr. Warren said, the gunman pulled out an automatic handgun and started shooting.
214 2007-12-09 According to the Association of American Medical Colleges, blacks made up 3.3 percent of doctors in the United States in 2004. The percentage of Hispanics was even lower, 2.8 percent. Asians made up 5.7 percent.

“Given the fact that the population is almost 25 percent African-American and Hispanic, it’s a gross shortage when you calculate the numbers,” said Dr. Lynne Holden, an emergency room doctor at Montefiore and the executive director of Mentoring in Medicine, which is based in New York City and Oakland, Calif.

Dr. Holden and other medical experts said there were a number of reasons for the low numbers, including a lack of financial resources and professional mentors in many minority communities. Representative Charles B. Rangel, a Harlem Democrat who gave the keynote address yesterday, put it another way, saying that he often meets politicians, lawyers and doctors who are proud that their children and grandchildren have followed in their footsteps.

“But what do you do when there are no footsteps to follow?” Mr. Rangel asked those who had gathered yesterday morning at the Frederick Douglass Academy in Harlem.

The conference was part job fair and part pep rally. The students, who were mainly black or Hispanic, came from elementary schools, middle schools, high schools, colleges and schools for health professions in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. There were workshops in the classrooms upstairs and tables in the hallways downstairs, where doctors, nurses and others answered students’ questions.

Dr. Holden started the morning by telling the students, “No question is a dumb question.”

Stephanie Ramirez, 15, and Ashley Espin, 16, both juniors at Robert F. Wagner Jr. Secondary School for Arts and Technology in Long Island City, Queens, learned about a subject they had no clue about until they attended a workshop yesterday. That subject was nuclear medicine, a specialty within radiology that uses radioactive substances to create images of the body.

Kamali Thompson, 15, a senior at Teaneck High School in Teaneck, N.J., ate lunch in the cafeteria, her brochure from Columbia University Medical Center next to her plate. Kamali, who wants to become a pediatrician, said she was disturbed by the low numbers of blacks and Hispanics in the medical field. “It’s bad because we need to be able to help ourselves,” she said. “My generation can help change that.”

The event was also a celebration of black and Hispanic doctors and their mentors. There was Dr. Holden, who is black, with two of her mentors, whom she first met at 13: Dr. Melissa Freeman and Muriel Petioni, a retired doctor who turns 94 in January. There was Dr. Yvette Calderon, who is Hispanic and an emergency room doctor at Jacobi Medical Center in the Bronx, with her mentor, Dr. Fernando Camacho.

Studies have shown that minority doctors are more likely to treat uninsured and low-income patients, and that diversity among doctors increases access to health care for the underserved.

Dr. Allen Spiegel, the dean of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx, told the students that pursuing a medical career was not easy, but that the complex and varied health problems of a diverse population demanded diverse health care professionals.

“Is there someone in this audience who’s going to understand a better way to prevent or cure diabetes, which is ravaging this country and neighborhoods such as the one that we’re in?” Dr. Spiegel asked.
215 2007-12-09 NEW ORLEANS, Dec. 8 (AP) — Quarterback Ridge Turner passed for two touchdowns and ran for three more as South Plaquemines High School defeated West St. John, 48-8, on Saturday for the Louisiana Class 1A state title.

Turner threw for 197 yards, connecting with Lyle Fitte and Dylan Boutwell for touchdowns, and ran for 108, making him the game’s top rusher.

Fitte added two 2-yard runs for scores to his 66-yard touchdown reception from Turner, who set a state single-season record for total touchdowns with 69.

The Hurricanes scored three second-quarter touchdowns and led by 35-8 at the half.

This is the second season for the Hurricanes, a team formed by a consolidation of Boothville-Venice, Buras and Port Sulphur High Schools after Plaquemines Parish was devastated by hurricanes in 2005. The Hurricanes ended the season 13-2; the Rams finished 9-6.
216 2007-12-09 SAN FRANCISCO, Dec. 8 — A cyber attack reported last week by one of the federal government’s nuclear weapons laboratories may have originated in China, according to a confidential memorandum distributed Wednesday to public and private security officials by the Department of Homeland Security.

Security researchers said the memorandum, which was obtained by The New York Times from an executive at a private company, included a list of Web and Internet addresses that were linked to locations in China. However, they noted that such links did not prove that the Chinese government or Chinese citizens were involved in the attacks. In the past, intruders have compromised computers in China and then used them to disguise their true location.

Officials at the lab, Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee, said the attacks did not compromise classified information, though they acknowledged that they were still working to understand the full extent of the intrusion.

The Department of Homeland Security distributed the confidential warning to computer security officials on Wednesday after what it described as a set of “sophisticated attempts” to compromise computers used by the private sector and the government.

Government computer security officials said the warning, which was issued by the United States Computer Emergency Response Team, known as US-CERT, was related to an October attack that was also disclosed last week by officials at the Oak Ridge laboratory.
217 2007-12-09 Patrick Nyarko scored in the 22nd minute to give visiting Virginia Tech a 1-0 victory over Connecticut yesterday, sending the Hokies to the N.C.A.A. College Cup semifinals for the first time.

Nyarko took a pass from Robert Edmans on the right side of the penalty area and rolled a low shot off the far post for his seventh goal of the season.

Virginia Tech (14-3-5) will play Wake Forest (20-2-2) in the College Cup, the Final Four of men’s soccer. Wake Forest defeated visiting Notre Dame, 1-0, in overtime last night on a goal by the sophomore Austin da Luz.

UConn (20-3-1) outshot Virginia Tech by 12-4 over all, and by 10-1 in the second half, but could not get a shot past goalkeeper Markus Algner, who had four saves.

GIGGS REACHES MILESTONE Manchester United beat Derby County, 4-1, behind two goals by Carlos Tévez to move to a point behind Arsenal, the English Premier League leader.
218 2007-12-09 The format: 18 holes over more than 7,600 yards, inside the ropes, from the back tees, in front of a live gallery, with NBC cameras recording every shot and the golfers writing down every stroke.

The round will take place June 6. A U.S.G.A. rules official will accompany the foursome. There will be no mulligans.

“Strict rules of golf,” said David Fay, the association’s executive director, quoting the character Auric Goldfinger from the classic 1964 James Bond movie. But of course.

Fay’s cinematic reference, though dated, is appropriate. In looking for ways to update its rather elitist image, the U.S.G.A. is reaching out to different audiences. It has made inroads in recent years with its addition of public golf courses to the Open rotation. Bethpage Black began the trend in 2002, and with Torrey Pines in 2008, Bethpage Black again in 2009 and Pebble Beach in 2010, the Open will have been played at courses accessible to the public four times in the first decade of the 21st century. With this collaboration on a golf reality show leading into the Open’s final round, the U.S.G.A. has further loosened its tie.

“I’m sure some people will raise their eyebrows and say, why are they doing this?” Fay said. “To me, the operative word is fun. Sure, it will be interesting and educational, and it will allow people to get some insight into the U.S.G.A. and give us a chance to connect on a different level. But I actually think it’s going to be a hoot.”

The whole idea began with a laugh. Tiger Woods was having a light moment with reporters after the second round of last year’s Open at Oakmont, saying, “If you’re a 10-handicapper, there’s no way you’re breaking 100 out there; if you played all out on every shot, there is no way.”

Woods’s statement gave Steve DiMarco, a Los Angeles writer and director, the idea for the show. He bounced it off a friend, who liked the idea. Then he passed it to Jerry Tarde, Golf Digest’s chairman and editor in chief, who talked to Fay, who talked to NBC’s Miller.

One of golf’s annual, and often-heated, discussions, about what exactly an average player could shoot on a treacherous Open layout, has now made the jump from the 19th hole to millions of viewers on one of the sport’s two highest-rated telecasts. Early reaction from the experts on what to expect: take the over.

“You can never, ever practice for Open conditions like they’ll see,” said Joe DeBock, the director of golf at Torrey Pines, who has spent the last 20 years there.

“The green speed, the height of the rough, the pressure — a regular 10-handicapper having to play by every rule? I’m thinking 110 at least.”

Dr. Bob Rotella, a sports psychologist, author and counselor to PGA Tour golfers, chuckled at the idea of a 10-handicapper breaking 100.

“I promise you there will be guys playing in the actual Open who are worried about breaking 80 on that course, as long as it’s going to be,” Rotella said. “A golfer who’s never played on TV, who knows his game is going to be shown on network TV, could become such a perfectionist and work so hard on his game and try so hard that it could be mind-boggling what he shoots.”

Rotella did not mean mind-bogglingly low, either. Pia Nilsson, the extraordinarily positive and upbeat Swedish coach who founded Vison54/Coaching for the Future to advance the theory that it is possible to shoot a round of 18-under-par 54 on a regulation par-72 course, did not want to pick a score for a 10-handicapper at Torrey Pines.

“It is not going to be easy,” she said. “This will be so much more stress than they have ever had — probably twice as much as in any round they have played. They will have to be brutally honest with their game plan, knowing what shots they can hit and what shots they cannot hit, and then not to try to hit shots they cannot hit.”

Where average golfers are concerned, that may not be easy. The consensus is that a double-digit handicapper who believes he can break 100 on an Open setup is deluded.

Tarde said: “There isn’t a golfer who ever grew up playing the game who didn’t stand over a putt at some point in their life and say: ‘This is for the U.S. Open. This is it.’ I think when they watch this they will realize how far that dream is from reality. Then again, maybe not.”
219 2007-12-09 OMAHA, Dec. 8 (AP) — With extra security on hand and holiday shoppers waiting at the doors, the Westroads Mall reopened Saturday morning, three days after a gunman killed eight people and himself there.

The Von Maur department store, however, where the shootings occurred, remained closed. A spokeswoman said that there was no timetable for its reopening but that the company hoped it would be soon. Yellow holiday lights brightened Von Maur’s exterior, but its main entryway remained dark.

Outside the mall, two Red Cross vans and a Salvation Army unit were set up near the food court entrance.

Early shoppers faced wind chill temperatures of only two degrees above zero before trickling into the food court or the mall proper. Retailers started raising their security gates at 8 a.m.

Mayor Mike Fahey greeted shoppers and reassured retailers that the city stood behind them as they struggled to regain momentum in the make-or-break holiday shopping season.
220 2007-12-09 Researchers who study conflict say that people who are highly emotionally reactive, for instance, or rigid or driven by narcissism, are the most likely to feud without retreat. People who internalize resentment, holding onto it indefinitely, are also more feud-prone. Women are more apt to ruminate on a grudge, some researchers say, while men prefer acting out and getting even.

Cheryl Dellasega, a professor in the College of Medicine at Penn State University and author of “Forced to Be Family: A Guide to Living With Sinister Sisters, Drama Mamas and Infuriating In-Laws,” says women practice “relational aggression”: employing the silent treatment, making cruel comments or excluding the foe from a group.

History suggests that even professional feuds often stem from childhood wounds inflicted by family. Hamilton had a painful childhood that he tried to compensate for, said Thomas Fleming, author of “Duel: Alexander Hamilton, Aaron Burr and the Future of America.” He was fiercely ambitious, craved affirmation and saw Burr, an aristocrat born into the power elite, as a constant threat to his own political success.

Hamilton “felt uncertain of whether he was going to be accepted in spite of his talents,” Mr. Fleming said.

Both men had an idealistic goal — helping to set the course of a young nation — that they ardently wanted credit for. Similarly, Dr. DeBakey and Dr. Cooley both wanted to pioneer artificial heart transplants. Dr. Cooley performed the first such transplant in 1969, using an artificial heart taken without permission from Dr. DeBakey’s lab.

Dr. Jonas Salk and Dr. Albert Sabin, who raced to develop the polio vaccine, had a bitter feud, as did Dr. Robert Gallo and Dr. Luc Montagnier, who each sought credit for finding the cause of AIDS.

Hal Hellman, author of “Great Feuds in Science” and other books about feuds, said such feuds can actually benefit science by forcing researchers to hone their theories.

Nonetheless, Mr. Fleming said, “It’s ironic commentary on human nature that the ego gets so involved in this kind of idealistic intention.”

Not everyone with a noble goal lets ego interfere. Consider Benjamin Franklin, who Mr. Fleming said took on huge ventures with a sense of humor and had no problem ceding the limelight. “One of his great maxims was if you want to accomplish something,” Mr. Fleming said, “don’t try to take credit for it.”

Close friends or siblings might find themselves feuding when one changes political or religious beliefs or becomes fervent about a cause. Ms. Hellman and Ms. McCarthy did not start out as friends, but their feud began when Ms. McCarthy, a Trotskyite, challenged remarks that Ms. Hellman, a Stalinist, made at Sarah Lawrence College.

Nora Ephron, whose play “Imaginary Friends” is about the Hellman-McCarthy war, said the word feud does not do justice to worthy battles over core values. “In some ways that word makes it sound almost trivial,” Ms. Ephron said. “Sometimes there’s a great basis for two people to hate one another.”

Yet no matter how virtuous the underlying reason, quirks of personality almost always figure. Some people simply relish taking jabs.

“You can’t read Mary McCarthy’s criticism without knowing how much she enjoyed sticking a knife in,” Ms. Ephron said. “Lillian wasn’t a critic, but she certainly loved drama — she loved bringing things to a head. So it’s not at all surprising that Mary took a jab and then, years later, Lillian brought it to this unbelievable dramatic moment by filing the lawsuit.”

Apologies were out of the question for such ardent aggressors, but with hard work or intervening circumstances, feuds can end. Crises that affect both parties can compel feuders to throw in the towel, said Laurence A. Basirico, a sociologist at Elon University in North Carolina who has studied family conflict. “It’s got to be a commonality that brings them together, something that supersedes the importance of the feud itself,” he said.

Then there are people who just grow so tired of feuding that they let go of a need for revenge, or a resolution that casts them as victor. Possibly such thinking factored into the DeBakey-Cooley reconciliation; neither offered much explanation.

One of history’s most famous feuds, the one between the Hatfields and the McCoys, Appalachian families who fought bloodily in the late 1800s, ended in 2003 when more than 80 members of both clans signed a truce.

Last spring, researchers said that a rare, inherited disease that triggers fits of rage might have played a role in the rift. The Associated Press reported that dozens of McCoy descendants had Von Hippel-Lindau Syndrome, which causes tumors that can produce bursts of adrenaline.

But Reo Hatfield, a businessman in Virginia who drafted the truce, dismisses that explanation. “Our hostilities were based on real-life disputes over land and politics,” Mr. Hatfield said. “We were both good families; we were just conflicted.”
221 2007-12-09 The stock market rose again last week on hopes that the Federal Reserve would cut short-term interest rates and that a government rescue plan for subprime mortgage borrowers would stabilize housing and bolster the earnings of lenders.

The market held onto its gains for the week despite a decline on Friday, after a stronger-than-expected government report on employment. In the logic of Wall Street, that report, suggesting unexpected strength in the economy, may have reduced the chances of a half- percentage-point rate cut by the Fed. Still, a Fed rate cut of at least a quarter point is widely expected. On Thursday, President Bush’s plan to aid some subprime borrowers helped buoy the stock market.

For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 253.86 points, or 1.9 percent, to close at 13,625.58. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index climbed 23.52 points, or 1.6 percent, to close at 1,504.66. The Nasdaq composite index gained 45.20 points, or 1.7 percent, to close at 2,706.16.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.10 percent from 3.94 percent the previous week.
222 2007-12-09 The industrial designer Konstantin Grcic has created a dozen or so chairs, but he long resisted making a cantilever one. “I didn’t dare,” he says. “It’s a no-go area, because it’s the icon of modern furniture design.” It’s also a technical challenge: a cantilever chair has no back legs and so relies on the strength of its materials for support. The odds are low of striking the right balance of stability, lightness and beauty. But Grcic beat the odds, and in October he unveiled his MYTO chair.

Because few designers have tried it, the cantilever chair is the province of greats like Marcel Breuer, with his pioneering tubular steel chairs of the 1920s, and Verner Panton, whose curvy plastic chair still symbolizes sexy 1960s futurism. Grcic saw his chance to design a contemporary version when the chemical company BASF invited him to create a product out of Ultradur High Speed, an advanced plastic used in the automotive industry.

Ultradur has the capacity to be exceptionally strong and exceptionally sculptural, and BASF’s engineering software was able to predict how the chair could be made using the minimum possible material and how it would respond to sustained use. The only hitch was that, for his particularly airy and intricate design, Grcic needed the plastic to be especially fluid for the molding process but still strong in the finished product — especially the seat, which was to be about an eighth of an inch thick in parts yet had to support as much as 440 pounds. So BASF’s chemists changed the composition of the plastic.

“When you design something, there’s always a moment when you realize that it isn’t strong enough,” Grcic says. “Usually you change the shape, but in this instance we could change the material.” After testing 15 different formulas, the chemists found the right one for Grcic’s elegantly angular, minimal new chair.
223 2007-12-09 Economics, in its purest theoretical state, assumes that markets set prices by factoring in a perfect stream of relevant information. That world has never existed, no more than the frictionless environment you encountered in high school physics. These days, it seems farther away than ever.

“In the ideal system, there’s a let’s-pretend auctioneer who runs around and collects all the chits of the buyers and the sellers,” said Allen Sinai, chief global economist for Decision Economics Inc. “If they don’t match up, the auctioneer keeps running around until the market clears.”

Now, buyers and sellers are effectively boycotting the pretend auctioneer, unwilling to believe what he has to say.

The real estate market, jolted by falling prices, is locked up because few can agree on a fair price. Sellers cannot fathom how their homes could be worth so much less than a year ago, when they were still high-fiving their neighbors across the backyard fence. (Those same neighbors may now be inside poring through the foreclosure documents.) Buyers have heard about plummeting prices and are holding out for some of that. The result: stalemate.

Other areas of American life are similarly tangled in a confusing swirl of unknowns. There are the striking television and movie screenwriters: Many issues continue to deprive a hungry nation of its nightly “Colbert Report,” but one has proved particularly nettlesome — how to divide electronic rights (not to mention advertising rates) in an age when people watch shows on their iPods, and YouTube competes for attention with CBS.

“New media? It seems impossible to divide it up,” the comedian Garry Shandling vented recently in an interview with Daily Variety. “How can you divide up something in an evolutionary stage? When we don’t know exactly what’s of value, it should be open. It’s half gambling.”

Shoppers inclined to surrender thousands of dollars for clothing sold by Gucci and Prada are bewildered by an abundance of similar-looking items with vastly cheaper prices at Zara and H & M, complicating decision making.

Confusion assails what was once known as the record industry (which, in this age of MP3 players, sounds a bit like calling Verizon a telegraph operator). The pop artist Prince recently opted to distribute his album via a British tabloid newspaper. The band Radiohead gave its album away on the Internet, inviting fans to hand over whatever they felt would be fair. With every component of the old distribution chain up for reconsideration — with downloadable music established, and the power of radio vastly diminished — what are the contours of the next negotiation between artist and label?

Consider the mysterious negotiations that have dragged on for weeks between the New York Yankees and their star third baseman, Alex Rodriguez. For many years, the value of any player could be roughly pegged to agreed-upon measures of performance — so many dollars for a home run or run batted in. Then came a new crop of stat-geeks, chronicled in the Michael Lewis book “Moneyball.” They found previously overlooked but supposedly more useful data for assessing value, and the economics shifted, with teams shelling out for less glamorous achievements like a high on-base percentage.

The A-Rod contract talks represent a new mode of calculating value that appears to be slowing down the dance. By most accounts, Rodriguez will command something around $30 million a year when the ink is dry. Though he is among the most prodigious hitters in history, that number still makes little sense when confined to what happens on the field, baseball people say. It begins to make sense only when the game is seen as an industry reshaped by technology and globalization.

A-Rod then provides crucial content for the cable television channel owned by the Yankees, and a means of hawking caps and jerseys on interactive Internet services. Factor in how he may break the all-time home run record wearing Yankee pinstripes, which convey a global brand, and perhaps — but only perhaps — does the money make sense.

“A-Rod could be worth trillions if you get enough eyeballs in China to start watching him,” said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Economy.com.

The point is, there is no “comparable,” no previous time to look back to when determining the check that should be cut for Rodriguez.

The same can be said for the banks struggling with the real value of their holdings; for homeowners and home buyers, record producers and artists, all staring at the scrim of uncertainty draping so many markets. The economy is waiting for markets to absorb the new possibilities and settle on prices that make enough sense to enough people that buying and selling can start up anew.
224 2007-12-09 “Giving You Christmas When You Want It,” by Simon Doonan (Op-Ed, Dec. 2), attributes our perennial holiday shock to a sense that the spiritual dimension of Christmas has been lost.

But I believe that it has more to do with a feeling that the holiday season marks the passing of yet another year.

We wonder, where has the time gone? What have I done with my life? In other words, it’s not Christmas that sneaks up on us. It’s mortality.

A little holiday shopping is great fun. Too much numbs our innate sense that life is too precious to waste in the mall.

“Giving You Christmas When You Want It” claims that holiday promotions have started the same time every year for 30 or so years, and that those who don’t like it should just relent and join in the supposed fun.

Perhaps what causes all the fuss is the increasingly overcommercialization of the holiday by so many more businesses and organizations in so many more media avenues. It’s sad that this one holiday is held so much higher above others.
225 2007-12-09 History is cloudy over whether Charles Dudley Warner or Samuel Clemens gave us “Everybody talks about the weather, but nobody does anything about it.” Whoever said it first is still right, but we read about how companies now manage impacts of weather if not the weather itself. Scientific advances have improved both day-to-day weather forecasts (really!) and given us better observations and computer models for estimating seasonal trends as far as a year out.

Recognizing this, the financial markets offer new forms for protecting against weather risk to revenue.

Surely most of us feel that it is warmer, and it would be simple (if simplistic) to plan for next fall or winter to be warm again: The variability of seasons has increased along with average temperatures: The recent decades set records for both the warmest and coldest winters.

Apparently businesses see that the key to protecting business profits from weather is to know the odds, and no one knows these odds better than the meteorologist or climatologist who looks back at history and models probabilities forward.

The writer is the author-editor of “Climate Risk and the Weather Market: Financial Risk Management With Weather Hedges.”
226 2007-12-09 Professors who know less than their students do about MP3 players won’t be at a disadvantage, because the systems require little technical skill to operate. “The best lecture-capture solutions simply require the speaker to turn on a mike and push a button to start the recording,” she said. “They are simple to use.”

Long before audio files, of course, students were doing “lecture capture” by taking notes, but even rapid writers may fall behind in fast-spoken, highly detailed deliveries. The new technology may help some of these students, especially those in large lecture classes. “But it doesn’t necessarily make sense for all groups,” Ms. Engelbert said, “for instance, in a more collaborative environment like an advanced composition class with a lot of discussion.”

The University of Central Florida uses a lecture-capture system from Tegrity, a company in Santa Clara, Calif., at its college of engineering and computer science in Orlando to record all sessions of about 300 classes a year attended by roughly 2,500 students, according to Alfred Ducharme, an assistant dean.

Tegrity software indexes every word shown on the computer screen during lectures in a database.

“Students don’t have to review the whole lecture,” he said. “They can type in key words on their computer, do a Google-like search, and open the lecture at that point.”

Isaac Segal, the president of Tegrity, said its fees are based on the number of students in the institution or department. Annual fees typically run $25,000 to more than $100,000, he said. Of the 90 institutions now using Tegrity, about half have campuswide installations.

Ronald Danielson, a vice provost at Santa Clara University, which has a site license from Tegrity, said that students use the review system efficiently. “They are very expert at clicking back and forward to the exact spot they want,” he said. “They don’t listen from start to finish.”

Purdue University in West Lafayette, Ind., plans to use a software application from Echo360, of Sterling, Va., that records lectures and accompanying slides for replay on iPods, iPod Touches, Zunes and other devices, said Edward J. Evans, Purdue’s interim executive director for teaching and learning technologies. The university is testing the program in as many as five classes this January, he said, and hopes to extend it to 300 classrooms in the fall.

Echo charges universities $10,000 for an annual site license for audio-only podcasts, and $20,000 for enhanced podcasting with visuals, said Mark Young, senior vice president and general manager. In January, Echo will introduce a new podcasting service for $50,000 that includes dynamic displays like computer animations.

The pressure to buy lecture-capture software has come mainly from students who need to study away from school — during a commute, for instance, said Bryan Vandiviere, the Web presentation technology coordinator at Kansas State University, which has a site license from Tegrity.

Laura Martho, a student at El Centro College in Dallas, finds the replay service invaluable. Mrs. Martho, who has four children, commutes 45 minutes each way four days a week to a hospital for clinical work in echocardiology. During the commute, she plugs an iPod into her car radio to review lectures, and checks visuals during lunch. “Every second counts,” she said.

Limor Raz, a Ph.D. candidate at the Medical College of Georgia in Augusta, reviews lectures in her neuroscience class by computer. “I can’t stress enough how much it helped me prepare for exams,” she said. “There’s a tremendous difference between viewing the lecture once and seeing it again. It’s not exactly easy, neuroscience. Trust me, it’s very tough.”

But Professor Danielson at Santa Clara said that not everyone on his campus was won over to the replay systems.

“Some professors are concerned about having less-than-perfect classroom moments captured for posterity,” he said.
227 2007-12-09 Guiding the legislators from the outside is Harry S. Pozycki, chairman of the Citizens’ Campaign, a nonpartisan group devoted to government reform.

At its heart, Mr. Pozycki said, the bill is intended to muzzle county political chairmen, who have long been perceived to wield an inordinate amount of power in picking candidates for local, county and statewide offices. Securing the blessing of the county boss has long been crucial to victory in any race, because of the way loyal blocs of voters in low-turnout elections follow the cues of their party leaders.

“We move from tyranny to democracy,” said Mr. Pozycki, a former chairman of the Middlesex County Democratic Party. “We have the rule of law, instead of the clubhouse rule.”

But this being New Jersey, you can bet there is personal animus underpinning the bill as well.

In Bergen County, Senator Weinberg has been engaged in an increasingly bitter battle with Joseph A. Ferriero, the Democratic Party chairman. To get into the whys and whats of their feud would require a master’s thesis worth of paperwork. But some of the bad blood dates back two years, when Senator Weinberg, then an assemblywoman, went to court in a battle over disputed ballots to edge a candidate preferred by Mr. Ferriero to fill a Senate vacancy.

Senator Allen has most recently been engaged in a standoff with Glenn Paulsen, a former Burlington County Republican chairman who still wields a lot of influence. She had wanted the county party’s help in a primary to fill the seat of retiring Representative Jim Saxton, but she quit when she became frustrated with the process.

“We need to get rid of the county bosses,” Senator Allen said. “Back-room deals have been made in New Jersey for years, and only now, when we seem to have a lot more women in the Legislature, are we starting to gain momentum in saying, ‘You can’t do that anymore.’”

Asked about Senator Allen’s remarks, Bill Layton, the new Burlington County Republican chairman, who is not exactly an Allen supporter, declined to comment. But he said that her bill was, in general, a good one.

“I think anytime the Legislature or anyone wants to make the political process for political parties more open and transparent, I think that’s a great thing,” Mr. Layton said. “I think it’s a great piece of legislation.”

But he said he did not like the requirement for voting machines because “to close that process off would be like asking the senators and assemblymen who come up to Trenton every day to go in a back room and vote on bills, so no one really knows how they stood on the issues.”

The fate of the bill is unclear. Gov. Jon S. Corzine said that while he had not looked at the bill, “I’ve tended to support most of the things that Senator Weinberg has been on the side of.”

Legislative leaders have offered lukewarm opinions. And both Tom Wilson, the state Republican Party chairman, and Assemblyman Joseph Cryan, his Democratic counterpart, expressed concern about the constitutionality of such a bill, noting that the United States Supreme Court has ruled that government cannot regulate private political organizations.

So leave it to Charlotte DeFillippo, the Union County Democratic chairwoman, to weigh in, too — on the side of the existing system.

“While Senator Weinberg is certainly prolific as a bill writer, I think that the legislation is gratuitous,” said Ms. DeFillippo, the only woman leading a county party in New Jersey. “Individual political problems should not forge general public policy. I also believe this is constitutional. So I agree with both state chairmen, and that’s a rarity.”
228 2007-12-09 GABOUREY SIDIBE, from Bedford-Stuyvesant and later Harlem, had seen bright lights and dressing rooms. She had been backstage at the Apollo. Her mother, Alice Tan Ridley, is a singer, and Gabbie, as people now call her, sometimes felt as if she and her brother had grown up behind the bar at the Cotton Club. She had done some singing, too, and had been in a few plays at Lehman College, where a friend was a theater major.

But being the good witch Glinda in “The Wiz” or an Indian in “Peter Pan” was about as far as Ms. Sidibe, 24, expected her acting career to go. She didn’t want the crazy hours, or the worries about money or health insurance that she saw growing up. Her mother makes money singing in the Times Square subway station, but Ms. Sidibe, who lives on West 135th Street, saw herself behind a desk with a steady paycheck. This fall, she was taking college classes and working at a consumer complaint call center.

She almost didn’t go to the audition in September for the movie version of “Push,” a novel by the African-American poet Sapphire. She arrived late, as the casting people were getting ready to wrap up, to read for the starring role, that of an illiterate, abused teenager named Precious Jones in a story about incest, H.I.V. and the hope of redemption. And even though the casting search had gone on for months in audition rooms all across the country, she blew everyone away.

Ms. Sidibe cannot explain the wave of emotion she tapped into that day, in a performance that got her a meeting with the director, Lee Daniels, and the starring role in his movie less than a week later.

“I’m sad for her, so I was sad,” she said with a shrug the other day in her dressing room in the Brooklyn Municipal Building, where the movie was being filmed. She is not a Method actor, she said; she doesn’t “become” the character when she isn’t acting.
229 2007-12-09 Margaret Biddle Hover and Mark Joseph McCooey were married yesterday at the Brick Presbyterian Church in New York. The Rev. Michael L. Lindvall, a Presbyterian minister, officiated. The Rev. Paul E. Carrier, a Jesuit priest, also participated in the ceremony.

Mrs. McCooey, 35, is known as Molly. She was the events marketing manager of House & Garden magazine until it suspended publication last month. She graduated from Lehigh. She is the daughter of Margaret M. Bartholomew of South Burlington, Vt., and John C. Hover II of New York.

Her father, who is retired, was the executive vice president of private banking and asset management for the United States Trust Company of New York. Her mother is a teacher working with special-education programs at Founders Memorial School, a primary school in Essex Junction, Vt. The bride is the stepdaughter of Jacqueline Whitley Hover and Edward K. Barth.

Mr. McCooey, 40, is the chairman and secretary of the Griswold Company, an institutional brokerage firm on the New York Stock Exchange. He graduated from Holy Cross. He is a son of Mary Catherine McCooey of Rye, N.Y., and the late Robert H. McCooey. His father was a member of the New York Stock Exchange and was a founder and the first chairman of the Griswold Company.
230 2007-12-09 Melissa Ciano and Gregory Scott Ellis are to be married today at Alger House, an event space in New York. The Rev. John Merz, an Episcopal priest, is to officiate.

The bride, 38, will continue to use her name professionally. She is a senior project manager at Holt, Rinehart and Winston, the textbook publishing company in Austin, Tex., and an adjunct professor of photography at St. Edward’s University there. She graduated from Northwestern and received an M.F.A. in photography from the School of Visual Arts in New York.

She is the daughter of Carole A. Ciano of New York and Bob Ciano of Berkeley, Calif. Her father is the creative director for St. Mary’s College of California; he is responsible for the design of its magazine and all other print materials.

The bridegroom, also 38, works in Austin, where he is a writer of internal memos for Apple Inc. He graduated from Vassar and received a master’s degree in anthropology from the University of Texas.

He is a son of the Rev. Wesley G. Ellis of Rome, Ga., and the late Marjorie Ellis. His father is a retired Southern Baptist minister who led Vassar Road Baptist Church in Poughkeepsie, N.Y.

The bridegroom’s first marriage ended in divorce.
231 2007-12-09 The idea of a star being born from Web video isn’t new. There was Lonelygirl15, for instance, the fictional teenager whose YouTube videos drew an international audience last year.

But the Web is usually where those stars stay. Which is why it was notable this year when the director Chris Robinson featured a largely unknown kid named Samgoma Edwards in the rapper Jay-Z’s latest video. Back in 2004, Edwards, who was then 11, began a collection of homemade music videos for Jay-Z songs with the help of an older brother and a friend. The series, which they called “Young Hov Project” and posted on YouTube, featured Edwards as Jay-Z — a no-brainer role for a young man who looked so much like the rapper. The videos soon went viral and won Edwards and his partners many fans, including Robinson.

So when Robinson began looking for someone to play a teenage Jay-Z in the video for the hit song “Roc Boys (And The Winner Is. . .),” all his casting director had to do was log on to YouTube. Though more than 100 people ultimately auditioned for the part, “it had always been in the back of my mind that this is someone I needed to work with,” Robinson says of Edwards.

In the final cut of the video, which appeared on national television in November, shots of the real Jay-Z partying at his 40/40 nightclub are juxtaposed against shots of Edwards as Jay-Z in 1988 partying at a community center. With his uncanny imitation of Jay-Z — and his accidental audition, courtesy of YouTube — Edwards steals the show.
232 2007-12-09 The children’s game rock-paper-scissors has a simple yet elegant structure: rock beats scissors; scissors beats paper; paper beats rock. Of the three possible moves, each defeats one, only to be defeated by the other. It’s almost karmic. Indeed, it’s a kind of equilibrium that scientists now say may govern conflict throughout the universe.

At least among lizards. In an article in last month’s issue of The American Naturalist, a team of biologists described the curious mating strategies that they observed in a species of European lizard. Some of the male lizards (call their type “rock”) use force, invading the territory of fellow males to mate with females. Others (“paper”) favor deception, waiting until females are unguarded and sneaking in. Still others (“scissors”) work by cooperation, joining together to protect one another’s females.

The three types of lizard, which the scientists monitored over several years in the French Pyrenees, are locked in a cyclical sort of standoff. For a time, the deceivers flourish at the expense of the intruders, who are too busy marauding to pay attention. Then the cooperators win out over the deceivers, who can’t slink past the guards. And then the intruders vanquish the cooperators, whose openness exposes them to aggression. Then the cycle repeats. It takes about four years.

Barry Sinervo, the lead author of the paper and a biologist at the University of California, Santa Cruz, has seen all this before. In the ’90s, he came across the same four-year cycle of mating strategies in a genetically distant species of North American lizard. Even the behavior of the North American lizards was not a complete surprise: in 1982, the evolutionary game-theorist John Maynard Smith predicted, using mathematical models of conflict, that such arrangements would be found in nature.

It’s a phenomenon big and small. In 2002, the biologist Benjamin Kerr announced his discovery of “a real-life game of rock-paper-scissors” among bacteria. In their recent paper, Sinervo and his colleagues even speculate that such games may describe human behavior in the corporate world, where strategies of force (takeovers), deception (fraud) and cooperation (mergers) also seem to supplant one another in an endless loop.

The pattern is “quite deep,” Sinervo says. “I think it’s a philosophical point. You have ‘take by force,’ deception and cooperation. Each beats one but not the other. It’s the way the very fabric of social systems is structured.”
233 2007-12-09 An article in Westchester and Connecticut copies last Sunday about a $12.4 million jury verdict against the Town of Branford, Conn., for eminent-domain abuse erroneously included a party among the clients of the lawyer Timothy S. Hollister. Mr. Ho...
234 2007-12-09 Chess has sped up lately, often affecting a game’s outcome.

Time controls were first imposed in the mid-19th century because some players took forever to move, prolonging games more than a day. After years of experimentation, the standard allotment of time became two-and-a-half hours per player for 40 moves, and another hour for each additional 16.

In the 1990s, two factors led to speedier games.

Before powerful chess computers, games were adjourned after six hours, to be resumed later. But with computers able to dissect adjourned positions, it was felt that games had to be completed in one sitting.

The second change was the 1995 election of Kirsan Ilyumzhinov as president of the World Chess Federation. Ilyumzhinov felt faster games would make chess more marketable. He made rapid games, where each player has 20 minutes, plus 30 seconds a move, the format for tiebreakers.

At the World Cup now under way in Khanty-Mansiysk, Russia, many matches have been decided by rapid games, including one between Gata Kamsky of the United States and Peter Svidler of Russia. Kamsky won the second tiebreaker to advance to the quarterfinals. Svidler had a nice position early, but the quick time limit probably caused him problems.

The opening was the Steinitz Defense. The defense is solid, but it cedes White a lot of space, and Svidler took advantage of that.
235 2007-12-09 “We’re talking about an epidemic,” said Ms. Verea’s father, Dr. Jorge L. Verea, 54, an internist who has a private practice in West New York and is also the chief medical officer at North Hudson Community Action Corporation.

This year, Gov. Jon S. Corzine appointed a group called the Governor’s Teenage Driver Safety Study Commission, which is to deliver its report in March. The commission is analyzing a wide range of issues, including driver education, passenger restrictions for young drivers and penalties for newer drivers who violate traffic laws.

The co-chairman of the governor’s commission, Christopher D. Rafano, who is also a municipal prosecutor and Democratic Middlesex County freeholder, said that as far as recommendations, “Everything’s on the table.”

Under current New Jersey law, 16-year-olds are eligible for a student learner’s permit. Student learner’s permit holders must take a behind-the-wheel driving course and practice supervised driving for six months before they can take their provisional license test. During practice, student learner’s permit holders must have a licensed driver who is 21 or older and has been licensed for three years in the front passenger seat. Practice hours, with a few exceptions, are 5:01 a.m. to 11 p.m., and only one passenger outside the immediate family is permitted in the car.

Passenger restrictions are an important component of graduated licensing laws for young drivers, said Dr. Allan F. Williams, the retired chief scientist of the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety. “The research indicates very clearly that for teenagers, the more passengers, particularly young passengers, the higher the risk,” he said.

New Jersey residents who are 17 to 21 are eligible for an examination permit. The main differences between this permit and the student learner’s permit are that enrollment in a course is not required, and examination permit holders can practice until midnight.

Provisional license holders must be at least 17 and cannot drive between 12:01 and 5 a.m., except in a few cases. Immediate family members and up to one other person may ride in the vehicle. After a year of unsupervised driving, provisional license drivers can get a basic license, if they have not been suspended from driving during that year.

Almost all states have instituted these graduated driver’s license programs to expose inexperienced drivers to the roads slowly.

Pam Fischer, the director of the State Division of Highway Traffic Safety, said since the graduated licensing laws were instituted, fewer young drivers were involved in accidents in New Jersey.

Last year, there were 55,792 accidents involving 17- to 20-year-old drivers compared with 58,681 in 2002, a decrease of about 5 percent. In 2005, there were 42 young drivers killed, compared with 55 in 2002.

New Jersey’s system, with its varying levels of restrictions, is one of the issues the governor’s commission is studying.

“We realized that not everyone is absolutely clear on G.D.L. restrictions, and we may have to make it a little more clear,” said Barbara J. McMorrow, co-chairwoman of the governor’s commission and a Democratic freeholder in Monmouth County.

Another concern of the commission is enforcement of the provisional license restrictions, Ms. McMorrow said. The group is considering recommending that an identifier, perhaps a sticker, be required on a vehicle so that police officers will know if a driver is breaking the curfew or transporting too many passengers. Ms. McMorrow said she thought a decal requirement for provisional drivers would be a commission recommendation.

The State Motor Vehicle Commission and the governor’s group have also been looking at the issue of drivers plea-bargaining to reduce their points. New Jersey drivers can receive points for infractions, and those with 12 points can have their licenses suspended. Those who accumulate 6 to 11 points are notified that they need to take a remedial class to deduct points.

Drivers who accept plea agreements often pay fines and receive no points, which makes them “invisible” to the vehicle commission and not forced to enter remedial driving classes. The vehicle commission is especially concerned about teenage drivers falling through the cracks, said Cathleen M. Lewis, its senior public information officer.

“The points are there to alert us to a problem,” she said.

State Assemblyman Joseph R. Malone III, a Republican whose district includes parts of Burlington, Mercer, Monmouth and Ocean Counties, has supported tougher laws for young drivers in the last decade. Mr. Malone, who first introduced a bill in 2002 proposing the governor’s panel, said that he would like New Jersey to have stronger driver education programs in high schools.

Mr. Malone said he expected the governor’s commission to recommend several bills that he might support, although he said that laws restricting teenage drivers could be politically unpopular. But, he said, “I’d rather have somebody be angry with me and the child is still alive.”

Dr. Verea, who supports tougher penalties for reckless drivers and teenagers who speed, compared a vehicle with several young passengers and an irresponsible driver to a loaded gun.

“If you don’t have a responsible driver, it’s a weapon of destruction,” he said. “Once you have a teenager who is acting irresponsibly behind the wheel of the vehicle, every other teen in that vehicle is at his mercy.”

On the night Ms. Verea died, she was wearing a seat belt when the driver, Alexis Torres, a longtime friend, crashed into a tractor-trailer making a turn off West Side Avenue in North Bergen. Mr. Torres was charged with vehicular homicide, then acquitted last year. A judge dismissed other charges against him, including driving while intoxicated.

Ms. Verea was a responsible young woman who was going to study to be a medical assistant and wanted to open a day care center, the Vereas said. When she chose a vehicle, she chose a truck because it was safe, and she never even had a parking ticket. The Vereas said that they often told Ms. Verea and her older sister to think before they got in anyone’s car, and that they now encourage parents to ask their children about their friends’ driving.

Since their daughter died, the Vereas have started a foundation to raise awareness of the dangers teenagers face on the roads. Through the foundation, they also help raise money for Project Graduation, an event where recent graduates are usually transported by bus to an all-night, alcohol- and drug-free party.

“Once you face it, then you have to share what happens,” said Dr. Verea, who estimated that the couple have shared their message with 700 high school students.

The Vereas said they had received positive responses from young people: Some have produced a song called “Rebeka,” written poems and even painted a portrait of Ms. Verea.

“There’s a little part of Rebeka in each one of you,” Dr. Verea said the couple tell teenagers. “And we are in part responsible for all of you now.”
236 2007-12-09 PROSPECTIVE borrowers in the New York area who are likely to be in the market for a mortgage that is close to the ''jumbo loan'' category have received a break from Washington.     Late last month, the federal government held steady at $417,000 th...
237 2007-12-10 A strike by workers at four companies that provide M.T.A. van services for disabled, elderly and sick passengers is causing hardship for some, advocates say....
238 2007-12-10 Bill Clinton just finished the first of seven campaign events in Iowa today and tomorrow for his wife, and he's using a phrase that voters are probably going to hear a lot of this week....
239 2007-12-10 Al Gore again says he's not interested in running for office in 2008, but says a future presidential bid isn't out of the question....
240 2007-12-10 After several false starts, the Toronto Stock Exchange and the Montreal Exchange announced a merger on Monday valued at 1.31 billion Canadian dollars ($1.3 billion). There had been pressure on the exchanges to come together as a way of avoiding a ...
241 2007-12-10 – In Sunday's Times Dave Itzkoff revisits the much-maligned ABC series "Cavemen" and finds glimmers of hope for the sitcom. "I voted for the strike... purely to try to save 'Cavemen,'" co-creator Bill Martin jokes. - When Paula Abdul takes a sip...
242 2007-12-10 An interview with a personal finance expert, Jean Chatzy, who examines the financial side of career change and entrepreneurship....
243 2007-12-10 Conduit Capital Partners said Friday that it had sold its stake in Inelec, a portfolio of three hydroelectric power plants in Mexico, to a Dutch subsidiary of the Italian utility Enel in a deal valuing the facilities at $193 million, including deb...
244 2007-12-10 Henry Blodget, who was barred from the securities industry for the misdeeds he committed as a research analyst at Merrill Lynch, may be getting another shot at picking hot tech offerings for a big firm. But instead of using his experience to enric...
245 2007-12-10 Monday's tech news is that Nokia's taking on Apple anew. Well, as many an iPod user can tell you, Apple ain't perfect. Here's a video compendium showing Steve Jobs not always on top of his game: Also, read a review of the new parody book by Fake S...
246 2007-12-10 Credit: Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times
247 2007-12-10 BOSTON, Dec. 10 — Harvard University announced today that it would significantly increase the financial aid it offers to nearly all middle-class and upper-middle-class students, expanding on efforts it made three years ago to make its campus affordable for low-income students.

The initiative appears to make Harvard’s aid to students with household incomes of $120,000 to $180,000 the most generous to be offered by any of the country’s elite private universities. Harvard will generally charge such students 10 percent of their family household income per year, substantially subsidizing the annual cost of more than $45,000.

University officials said the move would cut costs by anywhere from a third to 50 percent for many students. The initiative would increase financial aid spending by the university to $120 million from $98 million. Harvard’s president, Drew Gilpin Faust, said she hoped the plan would help restore the fundamental idea of American higher education as an engine of upward mobility.

“Education is the engine that makes American democracy work,” she said. “And it has to work and that means people have to have access.”

The announcement is part of a broader trend, as Harvard and other elite universities have been trying to alleviate the financial burden of college through steps like eliminating loans from financial packages. Amherst, Williams, Duke , Stanford and Princeton have all made moves in recent years to remove loans and increase aid.
248 2007-12-10 OTTAWA, Dec. 10 — After several false starts, the Toronto Stock Exchange and the Montreal Exchange announced a merger today valued at 1.31 billion Canadian dollars.

There had been pressure on the exchanges to come together as a way of avoiding a foreign takeover of the country’s financial markets. Making the call most recently was the federal finance minister, Jim Flaherty.

But the end of the Montreal Exchange’s autonomy has always been a politically sensitive issue within its home province of Quebec, which had a hand in thwarting earlier efforts at mergers.

The combined exchange, to be known as the TMX Group, will be based in Toronto. Montreal, however, will continue to handle trading in derivatives and new products like carbon emissions trading. It abandoned stock trading in 1999.

The Toronto exchange has recently been the target of new competitors. Foreign takeovers of Canadian industrial giants like Inco, the nickel miner, have also removed billions of dollars from Toronto’s electronic trading floor. At the same time, several would-be suitors from outside the country were thought to have been preparing bids for the Montreal Exchange.
249 2007-12-10 CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla., Dec. 9 — NASA on Sunday delayed the launching of the space shuttle Atlantis until at least Jan. 2 to give engineers time to diagnose and fix its balky fuel tank sensors.

The flight, originally scheduled for Thursday and then rescheduled for Sunday, was given its latest postponement when one of four critical sensors in the liquid hydrogen section of the external tank malfunctioned during early morning fueling.

National Aeronautics and Space Administration officials said at a news conference that technicians would try to isolate and repair the problem while the Atlantis stayed on its launching pad here at the Kennedy Space Center. If the issue requires a rolling back of the shuttle to its hangar for repairs, the new launching date probably would slip later into January, said LeRoy Cain, head of the mission management team.

“We have a lot of options before we determine if we have to roll back,” Mr. Cain said.

William Gerstenmaier, director of space flight for the agency, said there was enough margin in next year’s plans that a January flight by the Atlantis should not interfere with another shuttle mission scheduled for February.

The main mission for the Atlantis and its crew of seven is to deliver and install a large European science laboratory on the International Space Station. NASA had until Dec. 14 to see the shuttle off before its last launching window of the year would close.

NASA had hoped to extend the Atlantis’s 11-day mission to allow for an extra spacewalk by shuttle astronauts to trouble-shoot a malfunctioning joint that turns a set of solar power panels on the station. Officials have begun looking at the possibility of having the crew aboard the station stage a spacewalk to examine the joint, Mr. Gerstenmaier said.

After earlier problems with the sensors, launching officials set stringent standards for a planned Sunday liftoff at 3:21 p.m. Eastern Time. If all the sensors had not acted properly, the flight would have been scrubbed.
250 2007-12-10 RICHMOND, Va., Dec. 9 (AP) — How much, if at all, will Michael Vick’s role as financier of a brutal dogfighting ring hurt him? Will he benefit from his public apology or his cooperation with investigators?

The answers to these questions, among others, will determine how much time Vick, the suspended Atlanta Falcons quarterback, will serve in prison. United States District Judge Henry E. Hudson will sentence Vick on Monday.

Vick faces a maximum of five years in prison. Hudson is not bound by sentencing guidelines of a year to 18 months, or by the prosecutors’ recommendation.

Hudson has sentenced two of Vick’s co-defendants — one to 18 months and the other to 21 months — to slightly more than what prosecutors recommended. Legal experts said that was a positive sign for Vick, but by no means a guarantee that he would receive similar treatment.

For example, Vick acknowledged he bankrolled the Bad Newz Kennels dogfighting enterprise on a 15-acre property he owned in rural southeastern Virginia. He also gave his associates money to bet on fights.

“The judge could say that but for the money, this might not have happened — or might not have happened on the scale that it did,” said Linda Malone, a law professor at the College of William and Mary.
251 2007-12-10 Is the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater setting a trend? Both of its premieres this season are light and relatively frivolous. Fredrick Earl Mosely took on legends of the American West in his new and atypical “Saddle Up!,” And Camille A. Brown celebrates the captive community of New York subway riders in her delicious “Groove to Nobody’s Business,” first performed by the Ailey company on Friday night at City Center.

Ms. Brown has shrewdly observed that scene in a flowing series of vignettes about the city and its subway riders. Set to music by Ray Charles and Brandon McCune, the narratives unfold beneath oddly stylized but ingenious city and subway settings designed by J. Wiese. In the first of two sections Matthew Rushing is an impatient, comically hapless rider who only wants a seat and a little peace and quiet, none of which he gets. In the second section Glenn Allen Sims’s snooty newspaper-reading businessman deals with subway riffraff but does not triumph.

Two feisty young lovers (Linda Celeste Sims and Guillermo Asca) sprawl across several more than two seats. A truculent toughie (Hope Boykin) is not about to take any guff from anybody. There is a frazzled middle-class lady with a purse (Renee Robinson), a lumbering youth (Malik Le Nost) and a man (Kirven J. Boyd) with a soggy, persistent cold. A snazzy young woman (Olivia Bowman) seems to be tripping on more than the subway.

Ms. Brown opens “Groove” with marvelously dogged cross-stage trudges and then lets train-riding behavior take over, as far as movement is concerned. There are no abstractions here, and a lot of quick-passing bits of business, like the businessman’s almost undetectable wince when an innocent rider passes close enough to be a mugger. Ms. Brown’s choreography is both expressive and economical — no words needed.

The program also included Ailey’s “Night Creature,” with Alicia J. Graf spicily sensuous in the lead female role, and Elisa Monte’s “Treading,” a modern-dance classic that deserved the roar of approval it received as the curtain fell on Friday. The duet, to music by Steve Reich, is a warm, primeval ooze of lovemaking. An unbroken golden thread of a Kama Sutra exercise for dancers, “Treading” requires sustained physical strength and delicacy, both of which it got from Ms. Sims and Clifton Brown as the lovers, each exuding a shining clarity that made the duet into something exalted. The program was completed by Ulysses Dove’s “Urban Folk Dance” and Ailey’s “Revelations.”

One quibble: How about more vignettes in “Groove”? Mr. Rushing’s small, determined mouse of a character got off the subway way too soon. What happens to the others? And why not a “Treading” with same-sex lovers? Now that would be a groove.
252 2007-12-10 You’re groaning, right? I’ll admit I wasn’t all that happy for the play’s first 10 minutes or so, despite the obvious polish of the cast and the physical production, which includes exaggerated postcard-pretty sets (Peter J. Davison) and costumes (Martin Pakledinaz), as well as a slew of reproductions of the real Millet’s paintings.

But once Mr. Butz puts on a pink dress, this Tony-winning comic actor (“Dirty Rotten Scoundrels”), who had been rather flavorless in his opening scene, shows the true comic genius of which he is made. From that moment the whole production feels as if it’s been pumped through with nitrous oxide. Jokes you would swear you would never laugh at suddenly seem funny.

Mr. Blakemore, the British director who has brought such theatrical élan to the complexity of Michael Frayn (“Copenhagen,” “Democracy”), here exhibits the same comic assurance he demonstrated in the 1983 Broadway premiere of Mr. Frayn’s master farce “Noises Off.” He keeps the familiar machinery running smoothly without ever letting it shift into automatic pilot. And he understands the difference between knowing exaggeration and crowd-pandering vulgarity.

So does his cast, which offers a spectrum of witty variations on theatrical fossils. These include (in addition to the national cartoons of Mr. McGrath, Mr. Robbins and Mr. Bobb), John McMartin’s frisky take on the elderly gentleman lecher, Jenn Gambatese’s and Bridget Regan’s versions of the palpitating ingénues, and Patricia Conolly’s and Marylouise Burke’s sweet, stylish turns as a pair of fluttering old maids.

Byron Jennings appears to be having the time of his life as a sleek, melodramatic villain. (His greyhound carriage and vulpine face have seldom been used to such piquant visual advantage.) And David Pittu plays too many people to count with a consummate blend of precision and enthusiasm that is this production’s hallmark.

Looking like a cross between Kirsten Dunst and Joan Sutherland in “La Traviata,” Mr. Butz in drag is a minor miracle, both honoring the conventions of a hoary elbow-ribbing type and making them feel brand new. Like many great comic actors he suggests that he has more energy than a human body can naturally contain. Put him in the captivity of a whalebone corset and tiers of taffeta, and he becomes a bizarrely frilly volcano poised on the brink of eruption.

I’m not going to quote much from the play, since most of its jokes wither and die when removed from the rarefied air of the Lyceum. Anyway, I’m not sure which one-liners are Twain’s and which come from Mr. Ives, the author of the delightful “All in the Timing.” (Example: Mr. McGrath’s character speaks of taking a potential client “to ‘The Gleaners.’”)

And I probably shouldn’t tell you that there’s extended horseplay involving the stench of Limburger cheese and the centuries-old shtick involving an attractive woman who turns out to be made of artificial parts. Mr. Butz and company proceed with such giddy confidence that by evening’s end the show fleetingly assumes the authoritative absurdity of Oscar Wilde and Joe Orton. (There’s even a thrown-away Wildean-Ortonian line, “I congratulate you on your polygamy.”)

I don’t know about you, but as winter’s grayness creeps up on us, I’m in the mood for savvy stupidity. And Broadway isn’t doing much to satisfy that taste. (“Young Frankenstein”? Give me a break.)

“Is He Dead?” may be a scam, trying to pass off copper as gold. But by the time Mr. Butz raises his skirts and kicks up his heels for a final dance of the seven petticoats (or however many there are), there was indeed gold dust in my eyes.

By Mark Twain, adapted by David Ives; directed by Michael Blakemore; sets by Peter J. Davison; costumes by Martin Pakledinaz; lighting by Peter Kaczorowski; music and sound by David Van Tieghem; hair and wig design by Paul Huntley; associate producers, Jacki Barlia Florin and Robert G. Bartner; dance sequences by Pamela Remler; general management and executive producers, 101 Productions Ltd. Presented by Bob Boyett, Roger Berlind, Daryl Roth, Jane Bergère, E. Morten/P. Robbins, J. O’Boyle-R. Stevens, Roy Miller, Sonia Friedman Productions/Ambassador Theater Group and Tim Levy in association with Shelley Fisher Fishkin. At the Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, Manhattan; (212) 239-6200. Running time: 2 hours.

WITH: Norbert Leo Butz (Jean-François Millet), Michael McGrath (Agamemnon Buckner), Jenn Gambatese (Marie Leroux), Tom Alan Robbins (Hans von Bismarck), Bridget Regan (Cecile Leroux), Jeremy Bobb (Phelim O’Shaughnessy), Marylouise Burke (Madame Caron), Patricia Conolly (Madame Bathilde), David Pittu (Basil Thorpe/Claude Rivière/Charlie/the King of France), Byron Jennings (Bastien André) and John McMartin (Papa Leroux).
253 2007-12-10 SAN FRANCISCO, Dec. 9 -- In a vast refurbished warehouse on one of this city’s historic pier, Louis Rossetto, the co-founder of Wired magazine, is at it again. Only this time, his project has nothing to do with media or high technology. It is hand-crafted chocolate.

But Mr. Rossetto, 58, is applying the language of high-technology business to chocolate making. Mr. Rossetto and his business partner, Timothy Childs, explain that their company, Tcho, is still in start-up mode, its chocolate still in beta.

Beginning today, Tcho’s dark chocolate will be available in 50-gram beta bars, representing Version .10. The $4 bars, made of Ghanaian beans and wrapped in brown paper, will be sold only locally at first, only to those who have signed up on the Tcho Web site, and only to those willing to go pick up the chocolate at Tcho headquarters.

“A lot of people think companies like See’s and Godiva are chocolate makers,” said Mr. Childs. “But they’re not. They’re confectioners who take someone else’s chocolate and do something with it.” Others, said Mr. Childs, simply remelt other people’s chocolate and put their brand on it.

Slightly less fresh-faced than he was in the early 1990s, but with no less fervor for his product, Mr. Rossetto likes to say that Tcho is “where Silicon Valley start-up meets San Francisco food culture.”
254 2007-12-10 As it sets out to regain its footing in the United States, Apple and Google are going after Nokia’s franchise. But in doing so, they are shaking up the wireless industry in a way that may open up the one market that has flummoxed Nokia.

Apple, with its innovative iPhone, is changing the business relationship between the handset maker and the carrier. “Apple has managed to get operators to pay a bounty for new customers signed up — that is a sea change,” said John Tysoe, an analyst with the Mobile World, a research firm in London.

Google plans to create software that will turn cellphones into the principal portal to a mobile Web. Android, Google’s open-source platform for software, aims to transform the cellphone into a pocket computer in which any number of software applications could be added to a phone just as software is added to a PC.

Nokia views Apple as the first credible entrant into its market in years, Mr. Kallasvuo said. As for Google, he said he would wait for more details before deciding whether it is a threat or an opportunity. It did not go unnoticed that Google did not ask Nokia to join its Open Handset Alliance, a 34-company group that includes Motorola, Samsung and HTC.

“It’s very clear that Apple, Google and other players are bringing in a lot of new directions,” said Mr. Kallasvuo, 54, on a rare day working at Nokia’s waterfront headquarters in a suburb of Helsinki. “Convergence is a nice, dandy word, but it means industries colliding.”

For Nokia, the cellphone’s growing role as the indispensable device in a wireless, Web-connected world ought to be a boon. It already sells half of the world’s so-called smartphones — Web-enabled devices like the iPhone, Research in Motion’s BlackBerry and Nokia’s N95.

But Nokia has an uncharacteristically weak position in the United States. It was a leader there but lost ground after failing to match popular products like Motorola’s Razr phone. Its market share, 28 percent five years ago, is now barely 10 percent.

“There’s no doubt competition is intensifying,” said Carolina Milanesi, a wireless analyst in London for Gartner, the research firm. “Nokia is responding more aggressively than any other vendor to the challenge.”

The company, which once made tires and television sets, is plunging into an array of new businesses, like music downloading and navigation. The goal is to pack its phones with multimedia services. Already, its ubiquitous camera phones make it the world’s top seller of digital cameras.

In October, Nokia paid $8.1 billion for a digital mapping and navigation software company, Navteq. It wants to use Navteq’s maps for a range of location-based services — enabling users to find a shop or a restaurant in a strange city, for example, or to bring friends together.

“Mobile phones have two qualities that PC’s don’t have,” Mr. Kallasvuo said. “They’re always with you, and they tell other people where you are.”

That might alarm people who cling to old-fashioned notions of privacy. But it is a boon for advertisers who can aim messages at increasingly specific markets. Privacy is also less of a concern for devoted users of social networking Web sites, like Facebook and MySpace. Nokia views these people, most of whom are young, as its future.

“More young people are accessing things like Facebook via their mobiles because the sites are often blocked at work,” said Mark Selby, Nokia’s vice president for multimedia services.

In its first major challenge to Apple, Nokia has announced a deal with the Universal Music Group to offer a year of unlimited free downloads of songs on its high-end phones. It will give subscribers access to Universal’s vast catalog, which ranges from Elton John to Kanye West. Nokia said little about how much it would charge or which phones would offer the service, known as “Comes With Music.”

While Nokia boasts that it has one of the word’s best-known consumer brands — in Asia, it ranks No. 1, ahead of Coca-Cola — it has put its Internet-based services under a new name, Ovi, the Finnish word for door.

Nokia has gone this route before, with little success. Club Nokia, a previous effort to sell games and ring tones directly to consumers, foundered after cellular operators in Europe refused to accommodate it. And the early signs for Ovi were not auspicious, with few operators signing up.

Recently, though, Vodafone, one of the world’s largest cellular operators, agreed to offer Ovi. In return, Nokia will split a percentage of the service revenue it makes with Vodafone; it will also manufacture a number of handsets exclusively for the operator. Analysts said the arrangement seemed tilted in Vodafone’s favor. But that may be an acceptable price for Nokia to pay, given its desire to elbow into the market for Internet-related services, which it predicts will be worth $145 billion globally by 2010.

“They’re trying to make operators understand that they’re not against them,” Ms. Milanesi of Gartner said.

There are other signs that the industry is moving in Nokia’s direction. In the United States, operators have historically played a gatekeeper role, deciding which phones their subscribers can use for what rate and then steering them toward services controlled by the operator. But Verizon Wireless recently said that it would give customers more choice in terms of phones and services — provided they use its transmission technology, CDMA, or code division multiple access.

For Verizon, Nokia has subcontracted the production of a CDMA phone to an undisclosed Asian manufacturer — a rare step for a company that prides itself on making its own products. Nokia is also working with AT&T and Sprint to design phones.

Mr. Kallasvuo, a lawyer, once ran Nokia’s North American operations. He is a regular visitor, and spends a lot of time talking to carriers.

And for the last six months, that has meant hearing a lot about the iPhone. Nokia’s executives describe their own reactions to it in flat, unemotional terms that would seem scripted, if the speakers were not Nordic.

“The user interface was what one would expect from Apple,” said Kai Oistamo, the executive vice president for mobile phones.

Apple has shipped 1.4 million iPhones since June, less than half as many shipped than Nokia’s high-end phone, the N95. Yet Mr. Oistamo concedes that success is more than a simple numbers game. “If you don’t strive to be cool, to be on the edge,” he said, “you run the risk of becoming irrelevant.”

For now, though, Nokia is counting on its broad portfolio of products, rather than a single iPhone-killer, to fend off the competition. “We’re not a one-product, two-product company,” Mr. Kallasvuo said.
255 2007-12-10 LG Electronics, Seoul, South Korea, consolidated its worldwide creative account — for brand-image campaigns and ads for products like cellphones, TV sets and appliances — and awarded the assignment to Bartle Bogle Hegarty, London. Spending was estimated at $350 million. LG ads had previously been created by agencies like Euro RSCG Worldwide, part of Havas.

Sony Computer Entertainment of America, Foster City, Calif., chose Deutsch Los Angeles to handle the Sony PlayStation account, which had been handled by the office of TBWA/Chiat/Day in the Playa del Rey section of Los Angeles. Spending was estimated at $150 million. TBWA/Chiat/Day is part of the TBWA Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group. Deutsch Los Angeles, in the Marina del Rey section, is part of Deutsch, owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Heineken USA, White Plains, N.Y., chose a new agency, Adrenalina, New York, to create campaigns for two Mexican beers it imports, Tecate and Tecate Light. Spending for the brands, previously at Grupo Gallegos, Long Beach, Calif., was estimated at more than $20 million. Adrenalina is 49 percent owned by MDC Partners and shares office space with an MDC agency, Kirshenbaum Bond & Partners.

Virgin America, Burlingame, Calif., and Anomaly, New York, its first agency of record, are parting ways on the airline’s account, with spending estimated at $3 million. Some work is being moved internally to the Virgin America marketing department.

Marc Gobé, chairman and creative director at Desgrippes Gobé, based in the New York office, is leaving to open Emotional Branding, where he will be chief executive. Joël Desgrippes, president, based in the Paris office, will assume his duties.
256 2007-12-10 DOWNSIZING A RESCUE FUND Some of the world's largest banks are scaling back a controversial plan orchestrated by the Treasury Department to shore up troubled bank-affiliated investment vehicles and calm the debt markets.       A WALKOUT FOR RESPEC...
257 2007-12-10 Andrew Imbrie, a prolific composer and influential teacher best known for his harmonically rugged but appealingly lyrical 1976 opera, ''Angle of Repose,'' and for a rich catalog of chamber, vocal and symphonic scores, died on Wednesday at his home...
258 2007-12-11 The Brooklyn district attorney, Charles J. Hynes, discussed predatory lending practices at a town hall meeting in Canarsie....
259 2007-12-11 A new coalition of business and nonprofit leaders wants candidates to develop innovative policies....
260 2007-12-11 Two experts debate the merits of circumcision....
261 2007-12-11 A visual paean to the magic of snow, by artist Jeff Scher with music by Shay Lynch. Part of Sightlines, an Op-Ed visual series.
262 2007-12-11 "Simplfying the company's organizational structure." That line, said by Vikram S. Pandit in Citigroup's press release announcing him as its new chief executive, may well be the biggest task facing the firm's new leader. The problem is one of Citi'...
263 2007-12-11 It’s an auspicious start for Mr. Rossetto and his business partner, Timothy Childs, who have set up their business in an old warehouse on the San Francisco waterhouse. They say they’re proud to be bringing a chocolate factory back to San Franc...
264 2007-12-11 If you're a retailer, Christmas is when you clean up. If not, you may need a new business model. So it is understandable that Overstock.com shares have been tumbling. Patrick Byrne, the chief executive, went on CNBC last Friday and said, according...
265 2007-12-11 Jimbo Fisher has been named Bobby Bowden's successor at Florida State. Will that help or hurt the Seminoles?...
266 2007-12-11 The parsing of the roster began last week, when José Molina and Andy Pettitte officially rejoined the team. That led the Yankees to designate infielder Andy Phillips and outfielder Bronson Sardinha for assignment.

Now, with the roster at 40 and Pavano months away from returning from the reconstructive surgery he had on his right elbow in June, the Yankees could use his spot. But they want to keep him in their employ, presumably so they can continue to collect insurance on his contract.

That would require an act of good faith by Pavano. In theory, Pavano can sign a major league deal with another team as soon as he is released. But he seems likely to take the Yankees’ minor league offer. The remaining $12.95 million on his contract is guaranteed either way.

“Carl has tremendous respect for Brian and the organization,” O’Connell said, referring to Yankees General Manager Brian Cashman. “Obviously, he feels they made a solid commitment to him a few years ago, and he definitely is leaning toward going back to them on a minor league deal.”

O’Connell said Pavano was concerned because he was only 11 days from accruing 10 years’ service time in the majors and thus a full pension. Pavano made two starts last season (including one on opening day), none in 2006 and 17 in 2005. He is 5-6 with a 4.77 earned run average in his Yankees career.

Pavano has been splitting his time this winter between West Palm Beach, Fla., and Manhattan. O’Connell said he had been playing catch from 60 feet in the indoor batting cages at Yankee Stadium.

“I really still believe he can help a team in the second half of this season coming up,” O’Connell said.

He said it was not clear if Pavano would report to spring training with the Yankees in Tampa, Fla., or work out in Arizona with Brett Fischer, a trainer Clifton recommended when Pavano hired him in 2006.

O’Connell expects at least one client to be in the clubhouse at Legends Field in February — Nick Green, who will compete for the job of backup infielder.

That could be the only position-player spot up for grabs in spring training, unless the Yankees trade outfielder Hideki Matsui, who has a full no-trade clause, to the San Francisco Giants. The teams have talked, and although relievers like Jonathan Sánchez would interest the Yankees, the Giants are unlikely to trade starters Matt Cain or Tim Lincecum for Matsui.
267 2007-12-11 Washington Mutual, one of the country's largest lenders, said Monday that it would exit the subprime lending business, cut its dividend and eliminate 3,150 jobs. The company said it was acting in the face of an "unprecedented challenge" in the mor...
268 2007-12-11 Cardtronics, an operator of automated teller machines, cut the size of its initial public offering and lowered the estimated price range of the shares, a regulatory filing showed. Cardtronics will sell 12 million shares, instead of 16.7 million, a...
269 2007-12-11 NetSuite on Monday said it has begun the auction portion of its initial public offering, giving individual investors rather than underwriters the opportunity to set its opening stock price. The firm, which is using a modified Dutch auction format ...
270 2007-12-11 Sloane Robinson, a British hedge fund manager, has emerged as one of the top performers in Europe this year with its oldest fund generating a return of more than 40 percent, according to Financial News. The SR Global International Fund, a long/sho...
271 2007-12-11 Under a typical pollution trading program, a power plant or factory is issued an allowance by the government for emissions up to a mandated cap. If it does not use all its allowance, the remainder can be sold to other plants and factories that would otherwise be fined by the government if their annual emissions exceeded their existing pollution allowances.

The global emissions trade has to date been dominated by the United States and Europe, which have leading players like the Chicago Climate Exchange and the European Climate Exchange.

A team of consultants, led by the law firm Mallesons Stephen Jaques, worked on the four-month feasibility study for the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. They say the city’s financial strengths and its proximity to the mainland mean it has the potential to become a regional, and possibly global, leader in emissions trading.

“Hong Kong is sitting on the doorstep of a major, major player,” said Roger Raufer, a consultant engineer with the International Environmental Trading Group, an American company that advised on the study. “It could be very, very significant business.”

He added: “Asia has an environmental problem and everyone recognizes the market has to be part of the solution. You have got to have economics driving the cleanup.”

Mr. Raufer, who has advised the United Nations and World Bank, said there was compelling evidence from around the world that putting a price on pollution under an emissions trading program hastened the speed and efficiency of the environmental cleanup.

“The main point is that you accomplish environmental goals at a lower cost,” he said. “Because you put a price on the pollution, these economic instruments force you constantly to think about ways to get rid of pollution. By using resources efficiently, the government can afford to be more aggressive in terms of protecting the environment.”

There is no doubt that Hong Kong has a huge problem. Roadside pollution on an average day in the busiest parts of the city is several times the levels deemed acceptable by the World Health Organization.

Anthony Hedley, professor of community medicine at the University of Hong Kong and one of the report’s authors, said there were few days in the year “where you could put your hand on your heart and say it’s safe to breathe.”

Mr. Hedley said the scale of the damage to public health and the burden placed on the health system required the government to adopt mandatory restraints on emitters.

He said that from a public health perspective, emission trading might be part of a long-term solution, “but here and now the immediate need is for radical action to reduce individual exposures.”

Still, the advocates of emission trading say there is ample evidence that using free-market incentives to reduce air pollution lets governments demand cuts to emissions faster and more effectively than by simply imposing limits on emissions in isolation.

The biggest emerging market for emissions is in carbon, driven by global efforts to reduce greenhouse gases. But emission trading has proved effective in dealing with local problems of smog — emissions of particulates, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides.

In the United States, an emission trading plan has allowed authorities to impose aggressive pollution caps to tackle the acid rain problem, limiting the annual allowance of sulfur dioxide to 50 percent of 1980 levels.

Environment officials in China have noted such success and embarked on several emission trading pilot projects. This year, the governments of Hong Kong and adjacent Guangdong Province moved to set up a pilot emission trading plan that aims to reduce the amount of sulfur and other pollutants pumped into the skies of the Pearl River Delta.

Last month, The South China Morning Post, a Hong Kong newspaper, reported that the China Beijing Equity Exchange had well-advanced plans to set up the mainland’s first national exchange for trading pollution quotas, providing potential competition for Hong Kong.

“We have finished initial research and consultations with overseas emissions trading bourses concerning the proposed Beijing Climate Exchange,” the newspaper quoted Peng Zhiyuan, the exchange’s general operating director, as saying.

But industry representatives and analysts say there has been slow progress in China to a full emissions trading system because of institutional weaknesses like poor enforcement and monitoring.

K.K. Chan, the managing director of renewable energy at the Hong Kong electricity company China Light and Power, said that in order to set up an emissions trading system that linked the mainland and Hong Kong, governments would have to ensure a “level playing field.”

“Hong Kong and the mainland have different standards,” he said. “They even have different standards in terms of monitoring pollution. So the starting points are quite different.”

That might pose some challenges to any ambitions the Hong Kong Stock Exchange might have to offer emissions trading.

Mr. Raufer said an emissions trade that started by focusing on the air quality problem facing Hong Kong and its neighboring region on the mainland was a potential stepping stone.

“It might well be that you start locally because there is real problem here locally,” he said. “If you get these markets up and running, ultimately you can move into carbon, which as a global commodity is going to be huge. Some people say carbon is the next oil in terms of commodities.”
272 2007-12-11 Because it is a retrospective observational study — one that reviews the actual medical records of real-world patients — the findings carry less weight than a placebo-controlled clinical trial in which patients have been carefully screened for comparative analysis. But the study’s conclusions mirror those observed last May in an analysis published by Dr. Steven E. Nissen and colleagues from the Cleveland Clinic.

Sales of the drug, formerly a $3.4 billion product in global sales, have declined sharply since Dr. Nissen’s article was published in the New England Journal of Medicine.

Dr. Nissen’s meta-analysis, a pooling of clinical studies of Avandia, suggested a 42 percent increased risk of heart attack among those who took Avandia. That analysis spawned a controversy, with Avandia’s maker, GlaxoSmithKline, insisting that Dr. Nissen’s findings overstated the drug’s risks.

After a review, the Food and Drug Administration in November concluded that the evidence against the drug was inconclusive. But while the F.D.A. allowed Avandia to remain on the market, it also called for the agency’s strongest caution, a so-called black box warning on the label.

Responding Tuesday to the new study, Dr. Nissen said that it could spur the F.D.A. to take additional action. “As you accumulate more and more evidence that Avandia has this problem and it involves a very serious consequence, namely heart attack and death, it puts a lot of pressure on the F.D.A. to do more.”

The F.D.A. released a statement Tuesday. “This new study we have just seen today does not change FDA’s recommendations,” the statement said, in part. “The information FDA provided for the most recent labeling change remains accurate — the data are inconclusive and we have added a boxed warning to the labeling to ensure that health care professionals and patients are aware of this potential risk and can take this into account as they make individual prescribing decisions.”

In a statement, GlaxoSmithKline said the new analysis was flawed because the patients given Avandia in the Ontario health program are typically patients who have failed other treatments. They tend to be sicker patients facing a higher baseline risk of cardiovascular disease, Glaxo said.

“This difference is not corrected for in the analysis of the data and in the study conclusions,” the company’s statement said.

Canadian authorities have also allowed the drug’s marketing to continue. But they have taken a stronger stance against the medication than the F.D.A.. They have prohibited its use except in patients who could not tolerate other oral diabetes medications or as part of a combination treatment regimen when other oral diabetes medications by themselves have failed.

Dr. Lipscombe said her group had submitted its data to Canadian health authorities in case they wanted to revise their recommendations. “We feel that our study now gives more certainty that these previous reports were, in fact, well founded,” she said.
273 2007-12-11 The Boeing Company said today that it was on track to deliver the first 787 Dreamliner at the end of next year after improving supply chain problems that had led to a six-month delay in its original production schedule.

In a telephone conference call with analysts and reporters, Boeing said that it expected to deliver the first 787 in November or December 2008 and would produce 109 planes the next year. This was the same schedule laid out by the company when it made its revision in October.

The upbeat tone of Boeing’s statements contrasted with the surprising announcement two months ago that the company was pulling back from an ambitious development schedule that would have delivered the first 787 to All Nippon Airways of Japan by next May. That schedule was made even more complicated by the fact that the company, for the first time, was relying extensively on a global network of suppliers to help design and build the plane.

“We are pleased with the progress that we are making against plans,” said Scott Carson, chief executive of Boeing Commercial Airplanes. “Risks remain. But they are within normal margins. The lessons we have learned will make the program stronger in the future.”

Boeing is making a big bet with the 787 in several ways. It will be the first commercial airplane to be made largely of composite — a plastic material that is stronger than titanium yet lighter than aluminum. The 200- to 300-seat wide-bodied plane also features new fuel-efficient engines, which are proving to be a hit with airlines. The plane is the fastest-selling in aviation history with 762 on order from 53 different airlines. Boeing has sold a record 314 this year, Mr. Carson said.
274 2007-12-11 The cut in the so-called federal funds rate came at a meeting of the Fed’s policy makers in Washington. It was the third consecutive cut at these periodic meetings since the credit crisis erupted in August. The federal funds rate governs the cost of loans that banks and other lending institutions make to each other. Consumer credit, mortgage rates and auto loans all fluctuate with changes in the federal funds rate, which was 5.25 percent when credit problems began.

The rate cut comes as the Federal Reserve struggles to deal with a weakening economy, with no one sure how much damage the tight credit market, which erupted in August, might do. The Fed’s policy makers suggested in late October that they might have done enough. By then, they had cut the federal funds rate, in two steps, by three-quarters of a percentage point, to 4.5 percent.

And there the matter stood until late November when the Fed’s top policy makers — Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman, and Donald L. Kohn, the vice chairman — signaled that there would be another rate cut, at today’s meeting.

In speeches a day apart, the two men expressed concern that subprime mortgage problems might be making banks and other lenders reluctant to lend not only for housing but for other activities as well.

There is a key question for central bankers, Mr. Kohn declared, and that is “what is happening to credit for other uses, and how much restraint are financial market developments likely to exert” on the willingness of banks and other lenders to offer credit to consumers and to business.

Today’s cut in the rate at which financial institutions lend money to each other for very short periods might not end that reluctance to lend, some economists say, and that could push a still-growing economy toward recession.

Housing is by far the weakest sector. Home sales are down and prices have fallen not just on the East and West coasts, as they did in previous slumps, but in almost every region. Consumer spending has been less than robust in the opening weeks of the holiday shopping season, but well above the recession levels in the first two years of the decade.

Corporate profits, which had held up well through most of the decade, are showing signs of retreat, and some economists say that capital spending on new machines and equipment might also be weakening. Job growth has clearly weakened in the last two years, but not drastically. Employers added 127,100 a month, on average, over the last year, despite the tight credit market, and the unemployment rate held below 5 percent.

A big concern is economic growth, which surged to an annual rate of 4.9 percent in the third quarter and now, by most estimates, is sinking to 1 percent or less in the last three months of the year, and perhaps less in next year’s first quarter.

“A mild recession is now likely, with no growth for the year ahead,” Richard Berner, chief domestic economist at Morgan Stanley, declared in a report to clients this week.

But others see an economy with an underlying growth rate of 2 to 2.5 percent. They argue that the third-quarter surge and this quarter’s sharp decline are exceptions on either side of a growth trend not yet affected by the tight credit market.

“Take out trade and inventories, and real final sales to domestic buyers, including business investment, is 2.4 percent,” the chief domestic economist at Global Insight. Nigel Gault, said.
275 2007-12-11 A 37-seat commuter jet arriving at Kennedy Airport nearly collided with a Boeing 747 cargo jet on Sunday afternoon when the Boeing, which was supposed to land on a perpendicular runway, failed to do so and continued across the smaller jet’s path, controllers at the airport’s tower said yesterday.

Controllers were using the perpendicular runways to keep up with the stream of arrivals. The runways are separated by a few feet of grass, but the flight path from one leads directly across the other.

“These airplanes hooked up as much as you could hook up without actually hooking up,” said Barrett Byrnes, the president of the Kennedy tower chapter of the controllers’ union, the National Air Traffic Controllers Association.

Laura Brown, a spokeswoman for the Federal Aviation Administration, said yesterday that the agency was reviewing radar data to see how close the airplanes were, but was not immediately able to characterize the situation. She said, “This was a controlled situation,” with both planes given instructions after they aborted their approaches.

A spokesman for American Airlines, the commuter jet’s owner, said the company’s crew members left at the end of their shift without filing any reports of an unusual event. But Senator Charles E. Schumer, in response to the news of the event, said he would meet with the acting F.A.A. administrator to demand that new anticollision equipment be installed at the airport.
276 2007-12-11 PRISTINA, Kosovo, Dec. 10 — As the deadline for a negotiated agreement on Kosovo’s future expired Monday without a settlement, several thousand protesters took to the streets of this war-ravaged capital, waving Albanian and American flags and chanting, “Independence now!”

International mediators from the European Union, Russia and the United States reported to the United Nations on Friday that the negotiations had failed, with Serbia willing to grant Kosovo greater autonomy but vehemently opposed to independence. The provincial government is widely expected to respond by declaring independence.

Legally part of Serbia, this territory of two million people has been in limbo since NATO intervened in 1999 to stop a wave of repression by Serbian forces against ethnic Albanians. The province, administered for the past eight years by the United Nations, has become a test case for the European Union’s ability to speak with one voice and to prevent another civil war in its backyard.

Even as ethnic Albanians pleaded for independence, the leaders of Kosovo reaffirmed Monday that they would not proceed without the support of the European Union and the United States. Skender Hyseni, a spokesman for Kosovo’s Albanian leadership, said the provincial government planned to declare independence sometime before May, with Washington and Brussels recognizing it.

“Kosovo and the people of Kosovo urgently need clarity on their future,” he said.

With national sovereignty still beyond reach, there was tension on the streets of Pristina, where students protested near Parliament to express their frustration. Yllka Bajrami, 20, a student, said she was fed up with a process that appeared to have no end. “We want an answer from the people who are in charge,” she said. “We are all tired of waiting.”
277 2007-12-11 Former President Alberto K. Fujimori shouted his innocence on the first day of his trial in Lima on charges of using a death squad to kill leftist guerrillas and collaborators. “I received a country almost in collapse, exhausted by hyperinflation, international financial isolation and widespread terrorism,” he said. “My government rescued the human rights of 25 million Peruvians with no exceptions. If any detestable acts were committed, I condemn them, but they were not done on my orders. I reject the charges totally.”
278 2007-12-11 President Elías Antonio Saca said El Salvador would send a 10th contingent of 280 soldiers to Iraq next year to help with aid and reconstruction efforts there, according to The Associated Press. El Salvador, which has had troops in Iraq since 2003, is the only country in Latin America that has maintained such a deployment.
279 2007-12-11 Foreign Minister Felipe Pérez Roque said Cuba would sign the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, in force since 1976. Yesterday was International Human Rights Day, which he said Cuba celebrated “holding its head high,” according to Agence France-Presse. In a nearby Havana square, government supporters were shoving and shouting at about a dozen dissidents who had held a protest calling for improved human rights on the island.
280 2007-12-11 John Darwin, the 57-year-old man who walked into a London police station this month claiming amnesia, more than five years after he was presumed to have drowned in a kayaking accident in the North Sea, appeared in court on fraud charges and was remanded into custody. The charges involved obtaining an insurance payout by faking his death and obtaining a British passport in an assumed name. At the court in Hartlepool, his wife, Anne, 55, was charged separately with two counts of deception involving more than $330,000 in insurance claims. She flew back to Britain on Sunday after leaving the couple’s hideaway apartment in Panama. Before her arrest at Manchester Airport, she gave The Daily Mail a tearful account of their secret life. She said that her husband went missing after talking of clearing heavy debts by faking his death and that she believed him dead until he reappeared at their home 11 months after his smashed kayak was found on a beach near Hartlepool. She said she then joined him in an elaborate scam, rejoining him at home on the day she persuaded an inquest to declare him formally dead. “You tell one lie and you had to tell another one to cover up for the first one, and it all just snowballed,” she said.
281 2007-12-11 OTTAWA, Dec. 10 — A proposed merger announced Monday between the parent of the Toronto Stock Exchange and the Montreal Exchange, valued at $1.3 billion, was quickly questioned by a large institutional investor in Quebec.

The two exchanges have been under pressure — from the federal finance minister, Jim Flaherty, among others — to come together in an attempt to avert a foreign takeover of Canada’s financial markets.

But earlier attempts at a merger failed, partly because ending the Montreal Exchange’s autonomy is unpopular with many people in its home province, Quebec.

Within hours of the merger announcement, the Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec pension fund, which holds about 8 percent of the Montreal Exchange, called for a public hearing on the plan.

“We want to know whether the proposed merger is ultimately viable, given the emergence of many competitive platforms in the equity markets and the increasing share represented by Canadian companies interlisted on U.S. exchanges,” Henri-Paul Rousseau, the president and chief executive of the Caisse, said in a statement.
282 2007-12-11 Anemia drugs from Amgen and Johnson & Johnson may raise the risk that patients with a bone marrow disease will later develop leukemia, according to an analysis of 30 years of patient records.

Mayo Clinic researchers reviewed records of 311 patients with primary myelofibrosis, a scarring of the bone marrow, from 1976 to 2006. The drugs — Aranesp and Epogen from Amgen and Procrit from Johnson & Johnson — were linked to leukemia among 27 patients who developed the disease, according to research presented yesterday at the American Society of Hematology meeting in Atlanta.

Past studies linked anemia drugs to heart attack, stroke and death when used in high doses. Warnings from regulators about the risks caused sales of Aranesp in the United States to drop 36 percent in the third quarter. Aranesp is Amgen’s biggest product, with $4.12 billion in sales in 2006.

The study also found a higher risk of leukemia among patients who took danazol, a modified form of testosterone. Risk was also higher for patients with a high count of immature leukemia cells and a low number of platelet cells in the blood. Patients who took other treatments, like thalidomide and interferon-alpha, had no higher risk, researchers said.

Patients with primary myelofibrosis feel fatigued, and they sometimes take an anemia drug to stimulate growth of oxygen-carrying red blood cells.

The findings needed to be confirmed in a trial to answer the question about anemia drug risk, Dr. Ayalew Tefferi, a Mayo Clinic hematologist and the study’s lead investigator, said in a statement.
283 2007-12-11 The math works out as follows.

First, note that the bonus pay-per-ride card currently gives you a 20 percent bonus value if you put at least $10 on your card. That works out to $1.67 per ride. The proposal calls for the bonus to go down to 15 percent. That works out to $1.74 per ride. And currently, the 30-day unlimited card costs $76. Under the proposal, the price would go up to $81.

Under the current fare, if you use mass transit to commute five days a week, you pay between $1.73 and $1.90 per ride with a 30-day card, depending on whether the 30-day period contains 20, 21 or 22 workdays. The bonus-card fare is $1.67 per ride. So however many workdays there are, the bonus card is the better deal.

Under the proposed fare structure, your fare per ride with the bonus card goes up to $1.74. But your fare per ride with the 30-day card would increase to somewhere between $1.84 and $2.03, depending, again, on the number of workdays in the 30-day period. Bonus card wins again.

If you take fewer than five round trips per week, of course, the bonus card’s advantage over the 30-day card only increases.

Now, for you heavy transit users: If you take the bus or subway for a five-day-a-week commute and take an extra round trip per week, your fare with the 30-day card works out to between $1.46 and $1.58 per ride, depending on how many workdays there are in the period. That is less expensive than the $1.67 per ride you pay with the bonus card.

And under the proposed increase, your fare per ride with the 30-day card goes up to between $1.56 and $1.69 per ride. That still would beat the proposed bonus card fare of $1.74.

Again, if you use mass transit even more than that, the advantage of the 30-day card over the bonus card increases.

The transportation authority is trying to answer questions about the fare increase, too, but so far its efforts have gone as smoothly as an A train in the evening rush carrying the dreaded sick passenger. Yesterday, an online forum set up by the authority to answer questions turned calamitous when hundreds of inquiring straphangers fell victim to technical glitches.

A Web-based software platform that was supposed to allow all registrants — in what the authority called a Webinar — to see one another’s questions, several of which were then selected and answered orally by the presenters. To hear answers to the questions, each registrant was to receive a toll-free phone number to call in and listen.

Jeremy Soffin, an authority spokesman, said in a statement, “There were obviously technical difficulties, although we received hundreds of questions and know that the audio worked as well.”

The statement went on to say that the authority would still try “to answer many of the submitted questions and post them online in the coming days.”
284 2007-12-11 Washington Mutual, one of the country’s largest lenders, said yesterday that it would exit the subprime lending business, cut its dividend and eliminate 3,150 jobs.

The company said it was acting in the face of an “unprecedented challenge” in the mortgage and credit market, which it expected to continue through next year.

In an effort to regain liquidity in the face of losses and bad loans next year, the company plans to raise $2.5 billion by selling convertible shares. It will reduce its dividend by nearly three-quarters, to 15 cents a share, from 53 cents.

The company said the mortgage market was undergoing a fundamental transformation and predicted a prolonged period of reduced lending. It said national mortgage originations would shrink by 40 percent next year, falling to $1.5 trillion, compared with $2.4 trillion this year.

Washington Mutual, which is based in Seattle, said it would close 190 of its 336 home loan centers and sales offices as well as 9 loan and processing call centers. It will cut 2,600 positions, or 22 percent of its home loan staff, and 550 corporate positions, and will also close its institutional broker-dealer business, called WaMu Capital Corporation.
285 2007-12-11 Dr. Yamanaka is widely credited with being the first to hit on the idea of reprogramming adult cells to behave as stem cells because of his mouse work. The crux of his idea was to add genes called master regulators to the skin cells’ chromosomes. These genes can change the cell’s behavior by turning other genes on and off.

The finding has been welcomed in the United States, where the federal government has refused to finance much stem cell research. But it is also being hailed in his native Japan for an additional reason: as a sign that the country may finally be coming of age as a center of scientific research. In recent decades, Japan has been trying to reverse its decades-old image as strong in making gadgets but weak in basic science.

“This is the first time that medical-related research of world importance has been done entirely in Japan,” said Dr. Hitoshi Niwa of the Riken Center for Developmental Biology in Kobe. “No one thought before of making stem cells this way. It is a totally new direction.”

Blazing his own path seems to come naturally to Dr. Yamanaka, who has a reputation at his university for being a bit of a creative eccentric. Tall and trim, Dr. Yamanaka has a boyish face and a penchant for casual attire that give him the air of a graduate student. He often sprinkles jokes into his talks, an American flourish that is less common in Japanese academia. Students also mention his fondness for sports, saying they frequently spot him doing laps at a campus pool or jogging along the river.

A self-admitted workaholic, Dr. Yamanaka routinely puts in 12- to 16-hour days. He is known on campus for refusing to join colleagues for lunch, choosing to eat by himself so he can keep working. He is also known for being demanding but personable to his research staff of 25, mostly university students and post-doctoral researchers.

Success has brought Dr. Yamanaka a taste of celebrity, which he seems to have not entirely welcomed. Since he announced his finding, a steady stream of domestic news media have marched through his office and two crammed laboratories at Kyoto University. In an interview in his office, he showed an edge of impatience in saying he was tired of all the attention because it pulled him away from his research.

When asked the source of his success, Dr. Yamanaka said it was his willingness to take risks. His career has in fact been unorthodox by Japanese standards. While many scientists here spend entire careers in the rigid academic world, Dr. Yamanaka began his professional life in medical school, where he trained to become an orthopedic surgeon.

He said his interest in orthopedics came from experiences growing up in the western city of Osaka, where he made frequent visits to the doctor for bones fractured by rugby and judo. But he chose research over medical practice because of the freedom it affords, both to take risks and follow whims — something he could not do treating patients.

“I like the freedom of research,” he said. “Plus, if I fail in science, I know I can always survive because I have an M.D. This has been my insurance policy.”

Dr. Niwa and others said one of Dr. Yamanaka’s biggest achievements was not only the idea to use reprogramming, but also the speed with which he used it to create stem cells, first in mice and then humans. One challenge was figuring out which genes would reprogram adult cells. With hundreds of candidate genes, the number of possible combinations was almost infinite.

Dr. Yamanaka said he narrowed the field with a very unscientific method: he made an educated guess.

He said he used his instincts, as well as published research of other scientists, to pick the 24 most promising genes. In the lab, he found that the 24 did indeed contain four genes that could reprogram adult cells into stem cells.

“Choosing those initial 24 genes was almost like buying a ticket at the lottery,” he recalled. “I was just lucky. I bought the right lottery ticket.”

Another challenge was adapting the reprogramming method, which he first developed with mouse cells, to human cells.

He failed for months, and at one point even went back to the pool of 24 genes to see if human cells required a different combination of master regulator genes than those of mice. He also began experimenting with seemingly minor changes, like switching the gel-like culture solution in which the cells are grown. It was the small changes that worked, finally allowing him to reprogram human skin cells with the same four genes.

“If you had asked me back in June,” he said, “I would have told you the same four genes wouldn’t work in humans.”

Despite the breakthrough, the procedure has shortcomings, including a tendency of the newly created stem cells to turn cancerous, a risk with stem cells in general but heightened because Dr. Yamanaka used a known tumor-causing gene. Cancer risk is one reason stem cell therapy still seems a distant possibility; stem cell research shows more immediate promise as a way to pursue basic science.

Since announcing the finding last month, Dr. Yamanaka has already taken a step toward reducing cancer risk. In the Nov. 30 issue of Nature Biotechnology, he announced that even without using the cancer gene, he was still able to reprogram cells, and with a much lower incidence of cancer.

He says the biggest remaining problem is the procedure’s use of retroviruses to insert the genes into the cell’s chromosomes. Retroviruses are a type of virus that can also cause mutations in the adult cells, making them cancerous. Dr. Yamanaka said his next research goal was to reprogram without retroviruses.

He said he also wanted to set up a commercial collaboration between his university and a private company to use stem cells right away in laboratory research for creating new and more powerful medicines. The current cancer risk is not a problem so long as the cells are used in the petri dish, and not transplanted into humans, he said.

“I want to find ways to put the stem cells to use quickly,” he said.

Dr. Yamanaka said it was in medical school that he discovered a love of laboratory work, as a student helping with autopsies and research into alcoholism. After graduation, he pursued a doctorate in pharmacology at Osaka City University instead of going into practice.

His interest in genetic work came when he stumbled upon a paper about genetically engineered mice, known as knockout mice. He recalls feeling fascinated with the notion of replacing genes, which seemed a far more precise way of treatment than the conventional medicines he was then studying.

The best place to learn about genetics and knockout mice was the United States, where Dr. Yamanaka had no friends or contacts. He said he sent some 30 letters to American universities and specialists whose names he culled from science magazines and journals. One of the few to respond was the University of California, San Francisco, which offered him a post-doctoral position in 1993.

In 1996, he returned to Osaka City University, bringing with him a batch of knockout mice. But as an assistant professor in the pharmacology department, he received little financing and just a single seat in a shared laboratory.

“I grew so depressed from the lack of support that I considered quitting,” he said. “No one understood me.”

In 1999, his career got a break when he was hired by other universities, including Kyoto University in 2004, that were willing to give him a laboratory and more money. At about the same time, he said, he visited his friend’s fertility clinic. That visit inspired him to find a way around the moral issues that had bogged down stem cell research, not just in the United States but also Japan, where the Education Ministry put tough restrictions on embryo use.

In fact, restrictions are so tight that he says he cannot use human embryos at his laboratories here. Instead, research using human embryos is done at U.C. San Francisco, where he maintains a small two-person laboratory. He said he had never handled actual embryonic cells himself, and the American lab uses them only to verify that the reprogrammed adult cells are behaving as true stem cells.

“There is no way now to get around some use of embryos,” he said. “But my goal is to avoid using them.”
286 2007-12-11 Jeremy A. Goldbogen, then a graduate student at Scripps, realized that the project was not a failure. Mr. Goldbogen, who is now at the University of British Columbia, was interested in how fin whales feed. The monitors had logged lots of valuable information about the movements of the whales, like their speed and depth, that he could analyze. “This is the first time we’ve ever seen this kind of data,” Mr. Goldbogen said.

Working with Robert Shadwick at the University of British Columbia and Mr. Pyenson, Mr. Goldbogen applied some basic laws of physics to the data, combining it with information about the size and shape of fin whale bodies. They ended up with a surprisingly detailed picture of what the whales do when they feed, which they recently published in the journal Marine Ecology Progress Series.

It turns out that a fin whale dives very deep for food. It plunges more than 600 feet below the sea surface, most likely in search of giant swarms of krill. What the whale does next came as a complete surprise to the scientists. “It was still swimming, but it was slowing down really fast,” Mr. Goldbogen said. Even as the whale pumps its powerful tail, it comes to a compete stop in three seconds.

The whale grinds to a halt, the scientists concluded, by opening its mouth. Water floods in, pushing its giant lower jaws back until they hang perpendicularly from its body. Suddenly the whale is producing colossal amounts of drag. “The whales are beautifully streamlined so they can swim fast and efficiently, and then they’re throwing it all out the window,” Mr. Goldbogen said.

In fact, a fin whale’s body turns out to be exquisitely adapted for increasing its drag. The underside of its mouth is made up of a unique set of pleats that can stretch to four times their normal size. By continuing to beat its tail, the whale forces more water in, causing its mouth to expand like a parachute. And just as race car drivers use parachutes to slow them down, the whale’s inflated mouth brings it to a dead stop.

Mr. Goldbogen and his colleagues calculate that in just three seconds, the mouth of a 60-foot fin whale fills with more than 18,000 gallons of water. That’s the same volume as a school bus, and weighs more than the whale itself.

The whale then takes three seconds to shut its jaws. As its pleats begin to snap back in place, it pushes the water out of the sides of its mouth. The water must first stream through a set of thin plates known as baleen. Any krill or other animals in the water get stuck there. Once the whale has pushed out all the water from its gulp, it can swallow its prey and move forward again.

If Mr. Goldbogen’s model is accurate, it means that fin whales use a huge amount of energy to feed. This cost of lunge feeding, as this style of eating is known, could explain why the whales spend so little time underwater. While they can store a lot of extra oxygen in their muscle, they burn it up quickly with their peculiar way of sweeping up food.

For all this effort, a bus-size gulp of water yields a fin whale only about 20 pounds of krill. But fin whales can gulp every 30 seconds. In about four hours a whale can catch a ton of krill, which provides enough energy to fuel its gigantic body for an entire day.

Fin whales belong to a lineage of giant whales known as rorquals, which includes other heavyweights like blue whales and humpback whales. All rorquals share several unique traits, like the stretchy pleats on their undersides. Scientists have suspected that all rorquals feed in the same way, and new data supports that hunch. Researchers at the Cascadia Research Collective in Olympia, Wash., have been tagging blue and humpback whales with data monitors, and Mr. Goldbogen sees the same patterns of stopping and starting that he and his colleagues saw with fin whales.

Now Mr. Goldbogen and his colleagues are investigating how rorquals got to be so big. Whales moved from land to sea starting about 50 million years ago, but they remained relatively small until the rorquals evolved about 7 million years ago. “They really evolved very fast,” Mr. Goldbogen said. “We think this lunge feeding opened up a new door, evolutionarily speaking.”

To test this hypothesis, Mr. Goldbogen and Mr. Pyenson want to compare the size and shape of living and fossil whales. “When we look at all the sizes and shapes, we’re going to be able to figure out exactly how lunge feeding evolved and whether it’s responsible for these really big whales we see today,” Mr. Goldbogen said.

The scientists have been visiting museum warehouses in recent months to make measurements of whale skeletons. It can take hours _ — and forklifts in some cases — to gather the data on these enormous bones.

“I was amazed that no one has measured these things before,” Mr. Goldbogen said. “But when I got there, I realized, ‘Wow, this is why.’”
287 2007-12-11 Re “Cracking the Code to the Memory Vault” (Personal Health, Dec. 4): Jane Brody offered some good suggestions to help those of us with middle-age memory loss. Here is another: In talking to me about memory issues, a professor of psychology once indicated that while we do indeed lose memory function in middle age, we don’t lose cognitive ability. So he advised replacing memory with thought. Rather than relying on my faulty recall to find my keys, when I come home I now make a point of thinking about where I will put them, when I will need to retrieve them and so on. Thinking helps me remember.

Last week’s Science Times described two of my problems, one of which I solve using the other. Like Jane Brody, I need reminders, so my perfectionism comes into play, providing a useful adaptation: I always carry a pencil and something to write on.
288 2007-12-11 First-degree relatives — parents, siblings and children — of people with Parkinson’s disease are about 50 percent more likely than relatives of healthy people to suffer depression or anxiety, a new study reports.

That relatives of people with Parkinson’s have a higher risk of neurological disorders is well known, but their risk for psychiatric disorders has been unclear.

Researchers studied 1,000 first-degree relatives of 162 people with Parkinson’s and 850 first-degree relatives of 147 healthy people. The team found a 45 percent increased risk for depressive disorders and a 55 percent increased risk for anxiety disorders among the Parkinson’s relatives.

“This increased risk of depression and anxiety is important,” said Dr. Walter A. Rocca, the senior author and a professor of neurology at the Mayo Clinic, “but these are common conditions. The absolute risk for depression goes up from about 17 percent for the general population to about 27 percent for someone with a family member who has Parkinson’s.”

The study, published in the December issue of The Archives of General Psychiatry, also found that the earlier the onset of Parkinson’s, the more likely a relative was to suffer depression.
289 2007-12-11 Mr. Kirchner is not the first Argentine president to try to draw his wife into a more powerful role. Gen. Juan Perón, Argentina’s most revered leader, tried in 1951 to make his popular wife, Eva, his running mate. But the leaders of his party did not want a woman on the ticket and kept her off. She died in 1952.

Later, the general succeeded in making his third wife, María Estela Martínez de Perón, known as Isabel, his vice president. After he died in 1974, she became the first woman to serve as Argentina’s president, serving nearly two years before she was ousted in a military coup.

Imelda Marcos was a powerful figure in the Philippine government led by her husband, Ferdinand. But after he was toppled in a coup in 1986, she went into exile with him, only to return after his death to run for president. She never won.

Even if Hillary Rodham Clinton were to win the White House next November, her husband would not be the one to hand power over to her — though he would probably be very much at her side during her presidency.

Mrs. Kirchner conducted a carefully orchestrated campaign heavy on international diplomacy but light on opportunities for rigorous press questioning or debates with her rivals. In the end, facing a fractured opposition, she won emphatically, doubling the vote percentage that her husband was able to muster in 2003, when he got 22 percent before a rival dropped out.

“This says a lot about the weakness of Argentina’s political party institutions,” said Joan Caivano, director of special projects at the Inter-American Dialogue in Washington, who has studied the role of women in Latin American politics. “She was anointed by a very popular president, and that doesn’t feel like a good thing for a democracy.”

But few doubt that the 54-year-old Mrs. Kirchner, who served in Congress for a decade, has the political skills to lead. In her typically emphatic inauguration speech here on Monday, she set out an agenda that emphasized greater South American integration and a desire to return Argentina to the world stage after four years in which her husband focused on improving the economy after the crisis in 2001.

Argentina’s economy is poised to record a sixth year of 8 percent annual growth, and Mrs. Kirchner noted that hers would be the first Argentine government to begin its term without a fiscal deficit. She said she would seize the opportunity to begin a process of ridding Argentina of its debts to private bondholders. She was scheduled to meet Tuesday with Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the president of the International Monetary Fund.

Mrs. Kirchner will confront growing inflation, now pegged at nearly 20 percent by private economists, about double government claims, and a tightening energy situation. Just days ago Mr. Kirchner increased public transportation rates by 19 percent beginning next year, a sign that the government is concerned about its declining reserves.

She said she believed that strengthening the Mercosur trade union would be important to improving regional energy supplies, and she praised the formation on Sunday of a Bank of the South that will act as a South American-focused lending institution for development projects.

Mrs. Kirchner also showed a willingness to be a player in international diplomacy. She called on President Nicolas Sarkozy of France to allow Argentina to help negotiate with Colombian guerrillas for the release of Ingrid Betancourt, a hostage and former Colombian presidential candidate, whose mother watched Mrs. Kirchner’s speech from inside Congress. “I want to commit the force of our diplomacy and our country” to find a solution for her, she said.

And in what perhaps was a subtle dig at the United States, she called for the “reconstruction of multilateralism,” saying that “a unilateral world is a more insecure world and more unjust.”

She closed her speech with a rare display of emotion, acknowledging that her work will be cut out for her simply because she is a woman. She paid homage to female role models like the beloved Eva Perón and “to the women in the white handkerchiefs,” referring to members of the Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo, the group that fought relentlessly for information about their “disappeared” loved ones during Argentina’s military dictatorship.

“They dared to go where nobody else did,” Mrs. Kirchner said, her voice cracking as she looked up at some members of the group waving from a second-floor balcony. “Mothers and grandmothers of the homeland.”
290 2007-12-11 That quest to broaden black images coincides with a period of increased African-American scrutiny of media, including a national conversation about using a common black epithet in entertainment. The fallout from the radio host Don Imus’s racist comment about the Rutgers women’s basketball team continues even as Mr. Imus (who lost his jobs at CBS and MSNBC), returned to the air on Dec. 3, on Citadel Broadcasting radio stations, including WABC in New York.

And for the past several Saturdays there have been rallies against Viacom in New York and Washington to protest depictions of blacks in some rap music videos and on MTV, VH1 and BET, channels owned by that company. BET is introducing 16 shows through next year in an effort to answer its critics, freshen its profile and stay competitive. Still, TV One is not itching for a smackdown with BET, Mr. Rodgers said, but wants to meet the needs of viewers with an average age of 35.

“When all we had was BET, they had to be everything to everybody,” Mr. Rodgers said. “Why do we, the people who watch the most TV, have only two channels?”

The family-friendly Black Family Channel, a black-owned, Atlanta-based cable channel founded in 1999 as MBC Network, died earlier this year after failing to get wide distribution. Its Web site says it will continue as a broadband network.

Amy Alexander, a critic who writes widely about race and media, said that black cable networks were necessary because only “thin slices” of black life make it to the screen. “Why aren’t there smart, fantastical shows, well produced, that have a strong black presence?” she asked. If TV One wants to become a must-see brand, she said, it needs some breakout programming.

Mr. Rodgers knows that distinctive programming is crucial. “I have been waiting a long time for this industry to see us the way we see ourselves,” he said. His lengthy résumé includes six years as president of Discovery Networks and a 20-year run at CBS, where his positions included president of the television stations division. Now his team of veterans at TV One feels a historic mission to bring black stories to TV, said Rose Catherine Pinkney, the executive vice president for programming and production.

“Anyone can do a show with black people, but we want to be honest and authentic,” said Ms. Pinkney, who was most recently senior vice president for comedy development at Paramount Network Television. “Girlfriends,” “New York Undercover,” “The X-Files” and “South Central” are among the programs she helped develop at Paramount and elsewhere.

As an example of authenticity, Ms. Pinkney cited the setting of Mr. Sharpton’s show, a barbershop, which is a kind of black town hall. “Divine Restoration,” she said, acknowledges the importance of the black church. A coming family reunion reality series highlights a hugely popular phenomenon among African-Americans. A makeover show and one that peeks behind the scenes at a comedy club, which has as its host Tony Rock, a younger brother of Chris Rock, are on the slate for 2008.

Acquired programs like reruns and movies make up 70 percent of TV One’s schedule. Ms. Pinkney, well aware of the pressure to knock out a hit, said she tried to produce one new prime-time original each quarter.

TV One was started on the holiday celebrating the birthday of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., on Jan. 19, 2004, with about 2.2 million households in 16 markets. It can now be found in 69 of the top 75 African-American markets. Industry analysts say it is well positioned to find advertisers and cable distributors because one of its primary owners is Radio One, the largest radio broadcaster targeting black and urban listeners.

Radio One airtime is used to promote TV One and brand names like Mr. Baisden, who is host of the nationally syndicated radio program “Love, Lust and Lies.” Comcast, the nation’s largest cable operator, is the other major investor.

Alfred C. Liggins III, the chairman of TV One and the president and chief executive officer of Radio One, said he dreamed up the channel as he watched his friend Bob Johnson create BET. But he concluded that BET was not a fit for everyone, Mr. Liggins said, and he and his investors raised $130 million to start the network, with Radio One putting up $74 million. Comcast came aboard, he said, partly because of Radio One’s expertise in urban markets.

So far, so good, say media analysts. “TV One has done an amazing job getting distribution,” Derek Baine, a senior analyst at the media research firm SNL Kagan, said. “We have them projected to be in 50 million homes by the end of 2008.”

The network should make about $70 million in revenue by the end of 2008, after losing money its first four years, Mr. Baine said.

“TV One has a chance because it’s a recognizable brand in connection to Radio One,” said Mark Anthony Neal, director of the Institute for Critical U.S. Studies at Duke University. “They were able to realize that black folks watch the travel channel and the food channel.” Still missing, he said, are the black news programs.

Mr. Rodgers and Ms. Pinkney said they were well-positioned to make a difference in what people see and how black people are seen.

“‘I have this theory that whatever show we make, however we choose to tell the story, our viewers know it’s someone who cares about their lives and their culture,” Ms. Pinkney said, “and made it just for them.”
291 2007-12-11 CONRAD BLACK IS SENTENCED Conrad Black, below, the Canadian newspaper mogul who once owned the third-largest newspaper company in the world, has been sentenced to six and a half years in federal prison in Florida for cheating shareholders of Holli...
292 2007-12-11 Photo of tree trimmer cutting frozen limbs near power lines after snow and ice storm swept across Great Plains, contributing to at least 17 deaths in Oklahoma and Missouri and knocking out power to more than 600,000 homes and businesses...
293 2007-12-12 Roberta McCain, the candidate's 95-year-old mother, on the trail....
294 2007-12-12 Roberta McCain, John McCain's 95-year-old mother, appeared with him at an event in Iowa.
295 2007-12-12 Shares of ChinaEdu, a Chinese company that offers online degrees, closed 20 percent below their initial public offering price of $10 in their first day of trading on Nasdaq. The Beijing-based company priced 6.82 million American Depositary Shares ...
296 2007-12-12 Scrapblog, the scrapbooking Web site, announced Monday that it had raised an undisclosed amount of funds from Steamboat Ventures, the venture capital arm of Walt Disney, as part of its first round of funding. Along with the investment, David Min, ...
297 2007-12-12 As Hong Kong struggles under a daily cloud of noxious fumes from local traffic and nearby factories in mainland China, the Hong Kong Stock Exchange is considering using its financial muscle as part of a solution. The exchange's board is scheduled ...
298 2007-12-12 The Securities and Exchange Commission filed a civil fraud complaint against the former auditor of San Diego on Monday, a rare step reflecting the agency's concern about the quality of the information that governments provide to municipal bond mar...
299 2007-12-12 OTTAWA — Overriding the safety concerns of its regulator, the Canadian government is rushing through legislation to reopen a nuclear reactor that produces most of the world’s supply of an important diagnostic isotope.

Hospitals worldwide have canceled or delayed thousands of nuclear medicine tests used to diagnose a wide array of illnesses because of the prolonged shutdown of the reactor in Chalk River, Ontario, near Ottawa.

Atomic Energy of Canada, the government company that owns it, closed the reactor for regular maintenance on Nov. 18. But inspectors from Canada’s nuclear regulator subsequently discovered that the 50-year-old reactor still lacked systems that Atomic Energy was ordered to install to prevent a potentially dangerous reactor failure after a natural disaster like an earthquake.

The legislation, which was pushed through the House of Commons late Tuesday night, will suspend the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission’s oversight of the reactor for 120 days and allow Atomic Energy to restart it immediately. The bill was before Canada’s unelected Senate on Wednesday.

“There will be no nuclear accident,” Prime Minister Stephen Harper told the House of Commons on Tuesday. “On the contrary, what we do know is that the continuing actions of the Liberal-appointed Nuclear Safety Commission will jeopardize the health and safety and lives of tens of thousands of Canadians.”
300 2007-12-12 The small business lobbying group that had a big part in derailing Hillary Rodham Clinton’s effort to overhaul health care in the early 1990’s has staked out its position for the 2008 political season.

The National Federation of Independent Business, which says it has 350,000 members with active lobbyists in 50 states, warned politicians and policy makers on Wednesday not to impose new health-benefit obligations on small employers. The group said in a statement of principles that “a health care system built on employer mandates or on pay-or-play taxes is unacceptable.”

The Democratic presidential candidates, including Senator Clinton, Barack Obama and John Edwards have generally called for requiring employers to provide coverage or to pay into a fund to help insure many of the 47 million uninsured people in the United States without coverage. Republican candidates have talked less about health care, usually supporting the Bush administration’s proposals for tax incentives to help pay for coverage.

“We are opposed to payroll taxes,” said Susan Eckerly, a vice president for the business federation. “They are the number one job killer for the small business owner.”

The organization has been working on health care issues with a wide-ranging group of lobbying allies, including the Business Roundtable of corporate chiefs; the Service Employees International Union; the National Restaurant Association; and the building contractors lobby.
301 2007-12-12 The parsing of the roster began last week, when José Molina and Andy Pettitte officially rejoined the team. That led the Yankees to designate infielder Andy Phillips and outfielder Bronson Sardinha for assignment.

Now, with the roster at 40 and Pavano months away from returning from the reconstructive surgery he had on his right elbow in June, the Yankees could use his spot. But they want to keep him in their employ, presumably so they can continue to collect insurance on his contract.

That would require an act of good faith by Pavano. In theory, Pavano can sign a major league deal with another team as soon as he is released. But he seems likely to take the Yankees’ minor league offer. The remaining $12.95 million on his contract is guaranteed either way.

“Carl has tremendous respect for Brian and the organization,” O’Connell said, referring to Yankees General Manager Brian Cashman. “Obviously, he feels they made a solid commitment to him a few years ago, and he definitely is leaning toward going back to them on a minor league deal.”

O’Connell said Pavano was concerned because he was only 11 days from accruing 10 years’ service time in the majors and thus a full pension. Pavano made two starts last season (including one on opening day), none in 2006 and 17 in 2005. He is 5-6 with a 4.77 earned run average in his Yankees career.

Pavano has been splitting his time between West Palm Beach, Fla., and Manhattan. O’Connell said he had been playing catch from 60 feet in the indoor batting cages at Yankee Stadium.

“I really still believe he can help a team in the second half of this season coming up,” O’Connell said.

He said it was not clear if Pavano would report to spring training with the Yankees in Tampa, Fla., or work out in Arizona with Brett Fischer, a trainer Clifton recommended when Pavano hired him in 2006.

O’Connell expects at least one client to be in the clubhouse at Legends Field in February — Nick Green, who will compete for the job of backup infielder.

That could be the only position-player spot up for grabs in spring training, unless the Yankees trade outfielder Hideki Matsui, who has a full no-trade clause, to the San Francisco Giants. The teams have talked, and although relievers like Jonathan Sánchez would interest the Yankees, the Giants are unlikely to trade starters Matt Cain or Tim Lincecum for Matsui.

METS HAPPY WITH PITCHING The Mets have done nothing so far this off-season to bolster their starting pitching staff, which appears to need help. And that situation may not change.

General Manager Omar Minaya heaped praise on his incumbent starters Tuesday at the team’s annual holiday party, a sign perhaps that he is preparing fans for a 2008 staff that does not include any major acquisitions.

“Sometimes we lose sight of what those guys did,” Minaya said, referring to Oliver Pérez and John Maine, who both attended the party, with Maine dressed as Santa Claus.

“I look at what they did and I think, ‘Wait a minute, we do have some good young pitchers here that have done it.’ We sometimes get caught up in thinking we have to get pitching. But we do have pitching.

He added: “We’re still talking with free agents and we are talking to trade partners and things could change, but if we have to go with what we have, we won’t feel bad about going with those guys.”

That would mean a starting rotation with Maine, Pérez, Pedro Martínez and Orlando Hernández. The fifth spot in the rotation would presumably go to Mike Pelfrey or Philip Humber.

That may not sit well with fans hoping that the Mets can still acquire Johan Santana, Dan Haren or Érik Bédard, but the Mets say their need for a starter should not dictate their every move this off-season.

The Mets are clearly looking for big seasons from Pérez and Maine, who each won 15 games last season.

“They need to repeat that,” Manager Willie Randolph said. “They have to, because for us to be good, those guys have to step up and hold their weight. And if we don’t get another pitcher, they’re going to have to really step up.”

Maine does not shy from the pressure. “I like a challenge,” he said. “I’m going to work extra-hard.” BILL FINLEY

LO DUCA OFFICIALLY A NATIONAL Catcher Paul Lo Duca, who spent the past two seasons with the Mets, passed a physical Tuesday, making a one-year, $5 million deal with the Washington Nationals official.

He said he chose the Nationals because they “wanted me more,” and he wanted to stay in the National League. Then he added, with a smile, that he would now “play the Mets 18 times.”

In 10 seasons with the Dodgers, the Marlins and the Mets, Lo Duca hit .288 with 80 homers and 466 runs batted in.

“He has never been with a losing team — ever,” Washington General Manager Jim Bowden said. “He wins. That’s what he does.” (AP)
302 2007-12-12 KIEV, Ukraine (AP) — Yulia V. Tymoshenko, a leader of Ukraine’s pro-democracy protests in 2004, on Tuesday fell one vote short of the parliamentary majority needed to become prime minister.

Ms. Tymoshenko, a former prime minister and on-again-off- again ally of President Viktor A. Yushchenko, received 225 votes in each of two rounds of voting — one vote short of the absolute majority needed.

She and her supporters immediately claimed that the machine tabulating the votes was rigged.

The parties backing each of the leaders won a narrow majority in September’s national elections, and the two agreed to form a majority coalition on the understanding that Ms. Tymoshenko would be nominated as prime minister.

“The voting was grossly and blatantly falsified,” she said.

After the second disputed vote, members of the Party of Regions, which opposes Ms. Tymoshenko and has the largest contingent in Parliament, blocked the rostrum. Lawmakers then went into a recess.

Ms. Tymoshenko enjoys intense loyalty from her backers, especially since the 2004 Orange Revolution protests. Opponents say they are uncomfortable with her ambition and fiery oratory.

Ms. Tymoshenko and the president have often locked horns in the past. He dismissed her as prime minister in 2005, after only seven months.
303 2007-12-12 The findings suggest that for every 100 people taking Avandia over a four-year period there would be five additional deaths, four additional heart attacks and three additional episodes of heart failure, Dr. Lipscombe said.

Because it is a retrospective observational study — one that reviews the actual medical records of real-world patients — the findings carry less weight than a placebo-controlled clinical trial in which patients have been carefully screened for comparative analysis. But the study’s conclusions mirror those observed last May in an analysis published by Dr. Steven E. Nissen and colleagues from the Cleveland Clinic.

Sales of the drug, formerly a $3.4 billion product globally, have declined sharply since Dr. Nissen’s article was published in The New England Journal of Medicine.

Dr. Nissen’s meta-analysis, a pooling of clinical studies of Avandia, suggested a 42 percent increased risk of heart attack among those who took Avandia. That analysis created a controversy, with Avandia’s maker, GlaxoSmithKline, insisting that Dr. Nissen’s findings overstated the drug’s risks.

After a review, the Food and Drug Administration in November concluded that the evidence against the drug was inconclusive. But while the F.D.A. allowed Avandia to remain on the market, it also called for the agency’s strongest caution, a so-called black box warning on the label.

Responding on Tuesday to the new study, Dr. Nissen said that it could spur the F.D.A. to take additional action. “As you accumulate more and more evidence that Avandia has this problem, and it involves a very serious consequence, namely heart attack and death, it puts a lot of pressure on the F.D.A. to do more.”

The F.D.A. released a statement on Tuesday. “This new study we have just seen today does not change F.D.A.’s recommendations,” the statement said, in part. “The information F.D.A. provided for the most recent labeling change remains accurate — the data are inconclusive and we have added a boxed warning to the labeling to ensure that health care professionals and patients are aware of this potential risk and can take this into account as they make individual prescribing decisions.”

In a statement, GlaxoSmithKline said the new analysis was flawed because the patients given Avandia in the Ontario health program were typically patients who had failed other treatments. They tend to be sicker patients facing a higher baseline risk of cardiovascular disease, Glaxo said.

“This difference is not corrected for in the analysis of the data and in the study conclusions,” the company’s statement said.

Canadian authorities have also allowed the drug’s marketing to continue, but have prohibited use of Avandia by some patients.
304 2007-12-12 The Securities and Exchange Commission filed a civil fraud complaint against the former auditor of San Diego on Monday, a rare step reflecting the agency’s concern about the quality of the information that governments provide to municipal bond markets.

The commission settled the complaint at the same time, imposing a $15,000 fine on the auditor, Thomas J. Saiz, and enjoining him and his firm from violating the securities laws in the future. His firm, Calderon, Jaham & Osborn, was acquired by Caporicci & Larson, a firm in Costa Mesa, Calif., in 2003.

The S.E.C. said its inquiry into San Diego’s finances was continuing. The city settled a securities fraud complaint in 2006.

The S.E.C. accused Mr. Saiz of issuing clean audit reports on San Diego’s finances in 2001 and 2002, when in fact the city was shortchanging its pension fund and covering up the shortfall with fraudulent accounting.

Regulators said that Mr. Saiz had not only approved of San Diego’s statements but helped to draft footnotes that included false claims about the steps the city was taking to protect its pension.

Mr. Saiz consented to the settlement without admitting or denying wrongdoing. Caporicci & Larson said Mr. Saiz, a sole practitioner, was not available to comment.
305 2007-12-12 BEIRUT, Lebanon — An American human rights group issued a report on Tuesday accusing the Egyptian government of using torture and false confessions in a recent high-profile terrorism case.

The report, by Human Rights Watch, said the Egyptian authorities had little or no evidence when they charged 22 men with a dramatic terrorism plot last year, and that the men were beaten and tortured with electricity and cigarette burns before confessing. There are indications that even the name of the group the men supposedly belonged to — the Victorious Sect — was concocted by security agents, according to the report.

Attempts to reach Egyptian security officials for comment were not successful.

The case drew considerable attention when it was first announced in April 2006. The Egyptian authorities said they had uncovered a plot to blow up oil pipelines, kill Muslim and Christian religious figures and tourists, and acquire land for a terrorist training camp.

But within months, prosecutors dismissed all charges against the 22 men arrested in the case, and ordered their release. Ten of them remain in jail, the report says.

The arrests may have been intended to help justify the renewal of Egypt’s emergency law, which came shortly afterward in 2006, said Joanne Mariner, the terrorism and counterterrorism director at Human Rights Watch. The men arrested were young and had conservative religious views, like many of those arrested in such cases, she added.

The emergency law, which has been in place for decades, allows for trials of civilians before military tribunals and special state security courts that lack basic due-process protections. Other human rights groups have often criticized the law and Egypt’s record on detentions and torture.

“There have been a lot of other arrests based on association as opposed to real evidence, and in that sense this is a paradigmatic case,” Ms. Mariner said. “But this was an important one because of the profile the government gave it.”
306 2007-12-12 Still, companies are slowly moving forward with their plans. Since 2002, federal and state authorities have approved 18 new liquefied gas terminals around the country, including 4 offshore, though most analysts do not expect all of them to be built.

While most of the projects are planned along the Gulf Coast, the northeastern corner of the country is attracting attention because of its reliance on natural gas and its large populations. Two terminals to be built off Massachusetts gained approval last year. For Exxon, going so far offshore is an effort to duck the vociferous opposition that has dogged projects on both coasts. Its project, called BlueOcean Energy, would be able to supply 1.2 billion cubic feet of natural gas a day, about 2 percent of the nation’s gas consumption — and enough to meet the needs of five million residential customers.

Exxon’s project is the third offshore terminal proposed for the greater New York region in recent years.

One proposal, to build a gas terminal in the middle of Long Island Sound, has aroused concern since its announcement in 2004 because of the impact it might have on fishing and boating; it is strongly opposed by shore communities and politicians.

That opposition could intensify in coming months as the project, which is known as Broadwater and is a joint venture by Royal Dutch Shell and TransCanada, is expected to receive notice about federal and state permits.

Another company, the Atlantic Sea Island Group, plans to build a terminal for liquefied natural gas on an artificial island about 14 miles south of Long Island, a project called Safe Harbor Energy.

Opponents of natural gas terminals have cited the potential for leaks, fires, explosions or terrorist bombings. The industry has generally argued that the terminals are secure and accidents are rare, but it has also started looking for ways to build them as far as possible from population centers.

Exxon said its plant anchored off New Jersey, about 30 miles south of Long Island, would not be visible from shore and would stay clear of shipping lanes and recreational areas.

“We have tried to learn from our past experiences and that of the industry in general,” said Ron P. Billings, Exxon’s vice president for global liquefied natural gas.

The company said it would soon start the lengthy process of seeking regulatory approval from state and federal agencies, as well as the Coast Guard. Because of the complex regulatory procedure, the plant is not expected to begin processing until the middle of the next decade.

Natural gas shipped by tanker from abroad in a supercold liquid form accounts for about 3 percent of domestic consumption, but the government estimates that share could rise to 17 percent by 2030. At terminals like those proposed near New York, liquefied natural gas is processed into the gas form, which is used to heat homes, power electric plants and fuel many industrial activities. Natural gas accounts for about a quarter of the nation’s energy supplies.

Imports of liquefied natural gas are expected to jump 35 percent this year compared with last. But the growth is likely to slow next year because of delays with new terminals, according to the federal Energy Information Administration.

“So far no one has been able to crack the nut of getting infrastructure sited in the Northeast, and that’s why you have all these proposals to go offshore and avoid heavily populated areas,” said Mariano Gurfinkel, a project manager at the Center for Energy Economics at the University of Texas.

Exxon’s new project would receive two cargo ships a week. The gas would be carried by underwater pipeline that would come ashore at Raritan Bay in New Jersey.
307 2007-12-12 AT&T, the telecommunications company, announced on Tuesday a share buyback program worth nearly $16 billion and its biggest-ever dividend increase.

The company said it would raise its quarterly dividend to 40 cents a share from 35.5 cents. The 12.7 percent increase is the largest in the company’s history.

It said it would complete a newly authorized buyback of 400 million shares by the end of 2009, the equivalent to nearly 7 percent of AT&T’s market value of more than $230 billion.

Through Dec. 7, AT&T had repurchased more than $13 billion of stock under a buyback program announced in 2006.

The increase was more than investors had expected and came with AT&T’s forecasts for long-term revenue growth in the mid-single-digit percentage range or better, also stronger than some analysts had anticipated.
308 2007-12-12 “This remains an active investigation,” John M. Ryan, the chief assistant district attorney in Queens, said on Tuesday.

The drugs were seized in both felony and misdemeanor arrests, at least some made by police officers working undercover.

Authorities in Brooklyn said on Tuesday that they could not immediately determine what had become of those 43 cases, but that without the evidence — much less the laboratory analyses, which were not performed— it was unlikely that any prosecutions could have taken place.

Scientists in the lab measure the weight and purity of the drugs, factors that determine the severity of the charges and penalties.

“We are reviewing the records, but we would expect that it would difficult to proceed without the evidence, and in a timely manner,” said Jerry Schmetterer, a spokesman for the Brooklyn district attorney, Charles J. Hynes.

The Police Department has not publicly disclosed the mass loss of drugs last year. However, the missing evidence was mentioned in a footnote on page 32 of a report issued last week by the state inspector general, Kristine Hamann, that dealt with charges of a cover-up of serious misconduct in the laboratory five years ago.

Ms. Hamann noted that new managers at the laboratory had promptly notified city prosecutors and a professional oversight group about the disappearance of the drugs. A police spokesman took questions on Tuesday about the episode, but did not provide any information.

For generations, the investigation of illegal narcotics trafficking — and the subsequent handling of evidence — has been a fraught subject for the Police Department, exposing the honest to the perils of contact with violent people, and the corrupt to the temptations of easy money.

Perhaps the most notorious episode involved the theft of 120 pounds of cocaine and 398 pounds of heroin from the police property clerk’s office, a portion of which had been seized in the case that was made famous in “The French Connection,” the 1971 movie.

Years later, the police discovered that on six occasions from 1969 to 1972, someone had used a version of a detective’s name and badge number to check the drugs out of storage. The bags that took their place contained a mixture of flour and cornstarch. The theft was discovered when swarms of red beetles ate through the bags.

Though the amount of the drugs that disappeared last year is not known, officials said none of the cases that day involved big seizures, and certainly nothing approaching the scale of the French Connection case. And those who have been involved in the investigation say that honest error — rather than theft — could provide the most reasonable explanation.

At least once a day, police couriers travel to every precinct to collect sealed evidence bags that contain suspected narcotics. As the evidence is handed from one officer to the next, the chain of custody is documented in evidence vouchers.

Then the evidence bags are bundled into larger bags — similar to plastic garbage bags — and taken by the courier to the laboratory, generally late at night. There, the bags are logged by officers and stored in the Evidence Control Section until the contents are removed for analysis.

This was the procedure that should have been followed on Oct. 20, 2006, when one officer arrived with all the apparent narcotics seized in Brooklyn.

“The messenger had no receipt proving that the evidence had been submitted to the laboratory,” Dr. Pizzola wrote in his April 27 letter, which was addressed to Ralph Keaton, the executive director of the American Society of Crime Laboratory Directors/ Laboratory Accreditation Board. The text was read to The New York Times by a law enforcement official involved in the inquiry.

DESPITE the lack of paperwork, officials say that they are virtually certain that the police messenger did take several large bags of evidence to the laboratory. It is not clear how this was established; the officials, who spoke on the condition that they not be identified because of the continuing investigation, would not say if the laboratory has video recordings of those who come and go.

What happened next remains a mystery. There is no record that the drugs, including what seemed to be marijuana, cocaine and heroin, collected on Oct. 20, 2006, were ever logged into the Evidence Control Section. It appears certain that they never were checked out by any of the 100 scientists in the lab.

In his letter, Dr. Pizzola said he had been told by investigators with the department’s Internal Affairs Bureau that, “In their opinion, the laboratory’s Evidence Control Section was responsible for the loss of 43 cases of narcotic evidence.”

He summed up the episode with a question: “Was it a criminal act by a member of the laboratory, or an accidental loss of the evidence by mistaking the bundle as trash, or another error?”
309 2007-12-12 Still, much was left unanswered in Mr. Medvedev’s remarks, as is often the case when the Kremlin discloses succession moves. Beyond offering Mr. Putin the position, Mr. Medvedev, a longtime protégé of Mr. Putin’s who has no other source of support in the Kremlin, did not elaborate on his vision for a Putin premiership.

In his speech, Mr. Medvedev praised Mr. Putin and said Russia must continue the course that the president has followed since taking office in 2000. To do so, Mr. Medvedev said, Mr. Putin needed to remain in the government.

“It is not enough to elect a new president who shares this ideology,” Mr. Medvedev said. “It is not less important to maintain the efficiency of the team formed by the incumbent president. That is why I find it extremely important for our country to keep Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin at the most important position in the executive power, at the post of the chairman of the government.”

Mr. Medvedev also echoed Mr. Putin’s comments in recent months praising Russia’s revival on the world stage.

“The attitude toward Russia in the world is different now,” he said. “We are not being lectured like schoolchildren; we are respected and we are deferred to. Russia has reclaimed its proper place in the world community. Russia has become a different country, stronger and more prosperous.”

Mr. Medvedev, 42, a reserved former law professor, was appointed by Mr. Putin as a first deputy prime minister and chairman of Gazprom, the Russia gas monopoly. Unlike Mr. Putin and many other prominent Kremlin officials, he has no background in the state security services. With Mr. Putin’s endorsement, he is regarded as having little chance of losing the presidential election in March.

If Mr. Putin is serious about becoming prime minister, then it is widely believed here that he and Mr. Medvedev have already worked out an agreement for transforming the office from its current role. The presidency is far by the most powerful post in Russia, holding sway over the security forces — like the F.S.B., the successor to the K.G.B. — as well as the armed forces, the Interior Ministry and the judiciary. The prime minister has no real power base, being appointed by the president and approved by Parliament.

With his party, United Russia, dominating Parliament, Mr. Putin could bolster the powers of the prime minister’s office considerably even without amending the Constitution. All he needs is the cooperation of Mr. Medvedev in diluting the powers of the presidency.

It was the Parliament under the former president, Boris N. Yeltsin, that directed the critical ministries to report to the president rather than the prime minister. Changing that so the ministries report to the prime minister would require only an act of Parliament signed into law by the president.

There is also precedent for delegating authority over the army to the prime minister by presidential decree. In 1996, when Mr. Yeltsin underwent heart bypass surgery, his prime minister, Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, was given command of the army and nuclear launch codes for one day.

“Under this setup, the president of the Russian Federation, whoever he may be, would become fully nominal, a figurehead whose functions would be to accept the credentials of ambassadors, preside over state dinners and shake the hand of the queen of the Netherlands,” the magazine New Times wrote in an analysis of this course of events on Oct. 8.

“It can all be built on political handshakes,” said Lev A. Okunkov, dean of the law faculty at the International University of Moscow.

Some analysts even conjectured Tuesday that Mr. Medvedev could step down before his term as president ended, clearing the way for Mr. Putin to be elevated from prime minister to president, which would also be possible without altering the Constitution.

Mr. Putin’s spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, declined to say whether Mr. Putin was planning changes in the structure of the prime minister’s job.

“We are speaking about hypothetical possibilities, but if all the ‘ifs’ work out, definitely, Putin will be counting on a harmonious relationship with Medvedev, because ethically, Medvedev will be his boss,” Mr. Peskov said.

In a meeting with foreign journalists last month, Mr. Medvedev expressed distaste for a parliamentary system akin to those in some European countries, saying that Russia needed a forceful presidency to continue to develop.

“The model we are having in Russia, the socioeconomic model, is incompatible with the parliamentary democracy,” he said. “Russia should develop the same way as a number of major countries with strong presidential power. This is the basis for preserving the state within the existing boundaries, and I think this is something difficult to argue with.”

Georgi Satarov, a former senior aide to Mr. Yeltsin who is president of the Indem Foundation, an independent watchdog group in Moscow, cautioned that the political situation was in such flux that it was difficult to predict the structure of the government over the next year, not to mention who would be in charge.

Mr. Satarov said Mr. Putin’s most pressing need was to lessen the turmoil in the Kremlin as clans struggle for power with his term ending. Tuesday’s announcement might have helped to do that by sending a message that he was not going anywhere, at least for now, Mr. Satarov said.

“For him, it is very important to re-establish balance and calm the bureaucracy,” he said, adding, “I am not at all sure that the plans that they have declared will be realized in the next year.”
310 2007-12-12 BIENSTOCK--June Klein of Bayside, NY, born February 26, 1926; died December 10, 2007. Daughter of the late Moe and Sarah Klein; wife of the late Herbert Bienstock (former Regional Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, US Department of La...
311 2007-12-12 A NEW CHIEF AT CITIGROUP Vikram S. Pandit was named chief executive of Citigroup, ending a monthlong scramble to find a new leader for the country's largest bank.  Win Bischoff, the company's acting chief executive, was made chairman after Robert ...
312 2007-12-12 WEISS--Burton, a New York and London based investment banker, died Sunday of complications from lung disease. He was 77. He had been a Director of SG Warburg, the London merchant bank, and a Senior Vice President, Director and Member of the Execut...
313 2007-12-13 Mayor Bloomberg wrapped up a three-day trip to China, where he emphasized the environment and innovation in a series of speeches and meetings with officials. Next stop, Bali....
314 2007-12-13 F.B.I. and I.R.S. agents issued subpoenas to the Rev. Al Sharpton’s civil rights organization, the National Action Network, and to four associates of Mr. Sharpton....
315 2007-12-13 Neither Major League Baseball nor its official cap manufacturer provided testimony at a City Council hearing on baseball caps with signs and colors that connote gang affiliations....
316 2007-12-13 Rupert Murdoch sat for a long interview on Fox News Channel Thursday. (FNC) Under a banner labeled "Done Deal!," Fox News Channel anchor Neil Cavuto spent 20 minutes interviewing Rupert Murdoch of News Corporation this afternoon about his purchase...
317 2007-12-13 HBO's "Big Love," FX's "Damages," ABC's "Grey's Anatomy," Fox's "House," AMC's "Mad Men," and Showtime's "The Tudors" are contenders for the Golden Globes' best dramatic television series, the Hollywood Foreign Press Association announced this mor...
318 2007-12-13 At the Art Basel show in Miami, one can find quite a cast of characters. The New York Times on Thursday noted the presence of actors-slash-waiters, Manhattan socialites (one of whom cooed "Did you do Pucci or Choo?" while wearing high heels and so...
319 2007-12-13 Mitt Romney declared for the first time publicly that he is the underdog to his rival, Mike Huckabee, at this point in Iowa's fast-approaching Republican caucuses....
320 2007-12-13 A 13 year old wakes up to find she's a Golden globes nominee....
321 2007-12-13 The Korea Exchange Bank's chief executive, Richard Wacker, said HSBC Holdings may extend an April deadline for buying his company. "My understanding is HSBC and Lone Star are very, very committed to accomplishing this deal," Mr. Wacker said at a n...
322 2007-12-13 Two deals where smaller hedge funds have agreed to fold their operations into those of bigger rivals highlight how the going has gotten tough for the relative minnows of the industry, Breakingviews says. In spite of rather better than average perf...
323 2007-12-13 Kraft Foods, the food conglomerate whose brands include Ritz crackers and Velveeta cheese, said in a regulatory filing Wednesday it expects to issue $3 billion of notes. The notes include $2 billion of 6.125 percent notes due in 2018 and $1 billio...
324 2007-12-13 Eton Park Capital Management , a hedge fund founded by Eric Mindich, a former partner at Goldman Sachs, has agreed to buy a 5 percent stake in Reliance Capital Asset Management, in a deal that for the first time puts a value on India's largest mut...
325 2007-12-13 Microsoft said it had agreed to acquire MultiMap, an online map service based in London, in an attempt to compete more effectively with the search services of Google and to collect more revenue from online and mobile advertising. The MultiMap Web ...
326 2007-12-13 Actor, Musical or Comedy:

 Johnny Depp, ''Sweeney Todd''

 Ryan Gosling, ''Lars and the Real Girl''

 Tom Hanks, ''Charlie Wilson's War''

 Philip Seymour Hoffman, ''The Savages''

 John C. Reilly, ''Walk Hard: The Dewey Cox Story''

Supporting Actor: 

Casey Affleck, ''The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford''

 Javier Bardem, ''No Country for Old Men''

 Philip Seymour Hoffman, ''Charlie Wilson's War''

 John Travolta, ''Hairspray''

 Tom Wilkinson, ''Michael Clayton''

Director: 

Tim Burton, ''Sweeney Todd''

 Ethan Coen and Joel Coen, ''No Country for Old Men''

 Julian Schnabel, ''The Diving Bell and the Butterfly''

 Ridley Scott, ''American Gangster''

Joe Wright, ''Atonement''

Screenplay: 

Diablo Cody, ''Juno''

 Ethan Coen and Joel Coen, ''No Country for Old Men''

 Christopher Hampton, ''Atonement''

Ronald Harwood, ''The Diving Bell and the Butterfly''

 Aaron Sorkin, ''Charlie Wilson's War''

Foreign Language:

"4 Months, 3 Weeks and 2 Days," Romania

 "The Diving Bell and the Butterfly," France and U.S.

"The Kite Runner," U.S.

"Lust, Caution," Taiwan

"Persepolis," France

Original Score:

Michael Brook, Kaki King, Eddie Vedder, ''Into the Wild''

 Clint Eastwood, ''Grace Is Gone''

Alberto Iglesias, ''The Kite Runner''

 Dario Marianelli, ''Atonement''

 Howard Shore, ''Eastern Promises''

Original Song:

 ''Despedida'' from ''Love in the Time of Cholera''

 ''Grace Is Gone'' from ''Grace Is Gone''

 ''Guaranteed'' from ''Into the Wild''

 ''That's How You Know'' from ''Enchanted''

 ''Walk Hard'' from ''Walk Hard: The Dewey Cox Story''

Actress in a Series, Drama:

Patricia Arquette, "Medium" (NBC)

 Glenn Close, "Damages" (FX NETWORK)

Minnie Driver, "The Riches" (FX NETWORK)

Edie Falco, "The Sopranos" (HBO)

Sally Field, "Brothers & Sisters" (ABC)

Holly Hunter, "Saving Grace" (TNT)

Kyra Sedgwick, "The Closer" (TNT)

Actor in a Series, Drama:

Michael C. Hall, "Dexter" (SHOWTIME)

 Jon Hamm, "Mad Men" (AMC)

Hugh Laurie, "House" (FOX)

Bill Paxton, "Big Love" (HBO)

Jonathan Rhys Meyers, "The Tudors" (SHOWTIME)

Actress in a Series, Musical Or Comedy:

Christina Applegate, "Samantha Who?" (ABC)

America Ferrera, "Ugly Betty" (ABC)

 Tina Fey, "30 Rock" (NBC)

Anna Friel, "Pushing Daisies" (ABC)

Mary-Louise Parker, "Weeds" (SHOWTIME)

Actor in a Television Series, Musical or Comedy:

Alec Baldwin, "30 Rock" (NBC)

Steve Carell, "The Office" (NBC)

 David Duchovny, "Californication" (SHOWTIME)

Ricky Gervais, "Extras" (HBO)

Lee Pace, "Pushing Daisies" (ABC)

Mini-Series or Motion Picture Made for Television:

"Bury My Heart At Wounded Knee" (HBO)

"The Company" (TNT)

"Five Days" (HBO)

 "Longford" (HBO)

"The State Within" (BBC)

Actress In A Mini-series or Motion Picture Made for Television:

Bryce Dallas Howard – As You Like It (HBO)

 Queen Latifah, "Life Support" (HBO)

Debra Messing, "The Starter Wife" (USA)

Sissy Spacek, "Pictures Of Hollis Woods" (CBS)

Ruth Wilson, "Jane Eyre" (PBS)

Actress in a Supporting Role in a Series, Mini-Series or Motion Picture Made for Television:

Rose Byrne, "Damages" (FX NETWORK)

Rachel Griffiths, "Brothers & Sisters" (ABC)

Katherine Heigl, "Grey's Anatomy" (ABC)

 Samantha Morton, "Longford" (HBO)

Anna Paquin, "Bury My Heart At Wounded Knee" (HBO)

Jaime Pressly, "My Name Is Earl" (NBC)

Actor in a Supporting Role in a Series, Mini-Series or Motion Picture Made for Television:

Ted Danson, "Damages" (FX NETWORK)

Kevin Dillon, "Entourage" (HBO)

 Jeremy Piven, "Entourage" (HBO)

Andy Serkis, "Longford" (HBO)

William Shatner, "Boston Legal" (ABC)

Donald Sutherland, "Dirty Sexy Money" (ABC)
327 2007-12-13 Images of this year’s Golden Globe nominees, including  “Atonement,” “Sweeney Todd” and “Michael Clayton.”...
328 2007-12-13 The most sobering part of Wednesday night's Rangers-Capitals game had nothing to do with the game - a 5-4 overtime victory by Washington, which was wildly entertaining unless you are a big fan of goalies - but the lack of people watching in Washin...
329 2007-12-13 Citigroup said Thursday that it planned to take $49 billion of structured investment vehicles onto its balance sheet, after ratings agencies’ threats to downgrade the debt.

Citi, the largest American banking corporation, moved to assume responsibility for the securities, known as SIVs, after they were hit by a lack of access to financing and a slide in the value of their assets, which include repackaged consumer debt.

Citi said it had succeeded in cutting the assets, net of cash and cash equivalents, to their current level from $87 billion in August, while maintaining the portfolio’s credit quality.

Citi is following in the footsteps of HSBC Holdings, Europe’s biggest bank, and the Dutch bank Rabobank, which both took their SIVs onto their balance sheets in recent weeks.

Along with Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s recent announcement that they were considering cutting the SIVs’ senior debt ratings, Citi said it was intervening to support them because of reduced liquidity in the asset-backed commercial paper and medium-term note markets.

The SIVs have traditionally sold such notes to finance their purchase of longer-dated, higher-yielding securities.
330 2007-12-13 American officials said they expected it to be carried out soon. But China made no progress in lifting ceilings on foreign investment in such firms, only to study the matter next year, as sought by Washington. There was a deal, on the other hand, to let foreign companies issue stocks and bonds denominated in Chinese currency.

The lack of progress at the talks made it likely that China would continue to be a hot topic in American politics. China’s trade deficit with the United States is expected to soar to nearly $300 billion this year, representing nearly half the overall American trade deficit and thus drawing criticism of China from lawmakers and presidential candidates.

The new food safety accord reached Thursday would expand Chinese efforts to insure the safety of toys, pesticides and other products. In addition, there were agreements to combat counterfeit pharmaceuticals and better regulate pharmaceutical ingredients often used to make counterfeit drugs.

There were also agreements this week to promote Chinese tourism in the United States and to embark on a 10-year effort to cooperate on energy and the environment.

But continuing United States concerns were underscored by a last-minute flap when the Chinese suspended the release here of new Hollywood movies, apparently in retaliation against the United States’ taking China to court at the World Trade Organization over the issue of piracy of movies, music and software.

The Bush administration argues that a lack of access to China by Hollywood movies has encouraged piracy in the form of illegally produced DVDs readily available throughout the country. But Hollywood is one of many industries with a long list of complaints about Chinese practices keeping out foreign goods.

The mood of Congress was clearly on the minds of both the American and Chinese delegation, especially because the head of the Chinese team, Vice Premier Wu Yi, had opened the talks on Wednesday by warning that China might retaliate if Congress passes any of the punitive legislation it is considering on China.

On Thursday, apparently mindful of Congressional attitudes, and trying to draw a parallel with China’s promotion of its own industries, Mr. Paulson nonetheless said that leaders on both sides “recognize the need to fight economic nationalism and protectionism in our two countries.”

“Nations cannot protect their way to prosperity,” he declared, in what aides said was a reference to the bills being pushed by Democratic leaders, and indeed many Republicans, that would impose penalties on China if it does not change some of its economic policies.

The economic talks took place at a time of tensions over many issues, including disagreements on Iran, Taiwan and the Dalai Lama, and they reflected an unusual attempt to bridge differences. They took place first in Beijing Tuesday and then Wednesday and on Thursday at a conference center in the capital’s outskirts.

The talks in Xianghe were under the heading of a “strategic economic dialogue” set up a year ago by Mr. Paulson, a former investment banker with many years of experience doing business in China, who has argued that broad exchanges on long-term issues could improve the atmosphere for smaller deals.

Congress is growing impatient over the results produced by Mr. Paulson’s dialogue, however, and so the secretary was vehement in saying that the accord on food safety reached by several agencies on both sides was facilitated by the mechanism he had championed after he took office in 2006.

“Rather than recriminations and finger-pointing when this issue arose, both our nations were quick to sit down together and work the substance of the issues,” Mr. Paulson said, referring to the furor touched off last spring by disclosures of tainted Chinese pet food, processed foods, toothpaste, toys and other products.

Another theme of the talks had to do with American efforts to convince the Chinese that the legal challenges mounted by the Bush administration in the last year were not acts of aggression but a normal recourse to legitimate grievance procedures.

Both the commerce secretary, Carlos T. Gutierrez, and Susan C. Schwab, the United States trade representative, sought to convince the Chinese that appealing to the World Trade Organization to adjudicate disputes, or imposing duties on Chinese goods deemed to be dumped into American markets, were not acts of bad faith.

A senior official in the room said that Ms. Wu, a veteran economic negotiator, understood that the United States was more accustomed to litigating disputes. But Ms. Schwab and Mr. Gutierrez confessed they were not sure they had entirely convinced the Chinese side that legal challenges were not personal insults.
331 2007-12-13 The effort to grease the wheels of bank lending suggested that policy makers were increasingly concerned about the risk that economies could fall into recession because of failures in the credit markets, which have seized up again in the last couple of weeks after they overcame a bout of panic in August and September.

Economists and market specialists say policy makers are trying to reassure bankers that they will stand firm as the lenders of last resort. The coordinated action is being led by the Fed, which will lend $40 billion this month. The European Central Bank, the Bank of England, the Swiss National Bank and the Bank of Canada will lend $50.2 billion this month and next.

“This is basically a reinsurance policy,” said William H. Gross, chief investment officer of the bond management firm Pimco. Central bankers “are saying, ‘We will stand behind you.’ “

He added, “Now it’s up to the private market to gain a little confidence and turn a little macho and start performing on its own.”

Fed officials said that the move was an effort to improve financial markets, not a response to problems at specific banks, and that it was in the works well before investors reacted negatively to the Fed’s modest interest rate cut on Tuesday.

“This is not about particular financial institutions with particular problems,” a senior Fed official told reporters. “It is about market functioning.”

Economists said the move was intended to deal with specific problems in the interbank lending market and would not allay the biggest problems in the credit markets related to the weakening American housing market, where prices are falling and defaults and foreclosures are rising.

“They do not address the underlying imbalances threatening the world economy — notably the impact the U.S. housing slump will still have via conventional economic channels,” said Julian Jessop, chief international economist at Capital Economics in London. “But they should at least reduce the risk that the credit crunch tips economies into recession.”

Some critics, however, say the central banks were too eager to appease the financial markets and appeared to have lost their primary focus on fostering low inflation and stable growth.

“Some banks are ailing, some businesses are not doing so well, but the economy is fine,” said Richard Yamarone, chief economist at Argus Research.

Others criticized the central banks’ awkward announcement of the plan. By not disclosing the effort Tuesday, when the Fed cut its benchmark interest rate, they left investors with the impression that policy makers were not worried about banks’ liquidity problems.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 2.5 percent on Tuesday; it closed up 0.61 percent, at 1,486.59 on Wednesday. The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 41.13 points, or 0.31 percent, at 13,473.90. Rising oil prices, which surged more than $4 a barrel, to $94.39, also played a role in stock market gyrations.

Central bank officials first discussed the plan as early as September, but discussions were put aside when markets appeared to stabilize in October. They were revived this month in conference calls among officials of several nations.

In the briefing for reporters, a Fed official said: “We were finalizing details, both on our own and with other central banks. We and other central banks wanted to make this announcement when the affected markets were open.”

When markets are functioning properly, banks easily and regularly borrow money from each other at rates that are only slightly higher than what the United States government, considered one of the world’s safest borrowers, pays when it issues Treasury bills. Like homeowners who borrow against the value of their property, banks borrow against the securities they own.

But with markets increasingly uncertain about the quality of banks’ holdings, lending between banks has slowed and become more expensive. Banks are also less likely to extend loans because they need to hold more capital on their books.

Underscoring the banks’ problems, Wachovia and Bank of America said Wednesday that loan losses were rising and profits would fall further in coming months.

The difference between what banks pay to borrow and what the Treasury pays has widened from less than half a percentage point in the spring to more than 2.2 percentage points Tuesday. It fell slightly yesterday after the central banks’ announcement, but policy makers, by stepping into the breach and lending directly to banks, are hoping to reduce that premium much further.

The Fed will do so through an auction process it has not used before. It will ask banks to bid the interest rate they are willing to pay for loans totaling $40 billion, split in two equal parts, with the first auction beginning Monday.

The process is expected to result in a rate that is lower than the discount rate at which the Fed lends money to banks, backed by the same collateral as will be required in the auctions. The discount rate was lowered to 4.75 percent on Tuesday, from 5 percent.

During the credit crisis, few banks have voluntarily borrowed at the discount rate because it was seen as a sign of weakness. Policy makers say they will be releasing auction results so that the participants know only which Federal Reserve bank made the loans, not which commercial bank borrowed the money. Based on the results of its first two auctions, the Fed plans two more auctions of an unspecified size in January.

In part, said Larry A. Goldstone, president of Thornburg Mortgage, a lender based in Santa Fe, N.M., the process “will give the Fed some idea of what the cost of money needs to be in order to get the banks to borrow.”

In Europe, the Fed and the European Central Bank will swap $20 billion for the equivalent in euros, and $4 billion will be swapped with the Swiss National Bank. The exchanges are aimed at allowing deposit-taking banks in Europe to borrow in dollars. The Canadian and British central banks will lend using their own funds.

The effort, economists note, will not result in any net addition of money into the banking system, because the Fed wants to keep its target rate for interbank lending at 4.25 percent.

“This is not a Fed that is providing a lower funding structure for the system,” said Bruce Kasman, chief economist at JPMorgan Securities. “It’s trying to get funding out in a way that makes it clear to people that they will be able to do business.”

Still, several analysts contended that the plan might raise more doubts about whether even bigger problems loomed. “It smacks of panic,” Barry Ritholtz wrote on his widely read economics blog, the Big Picture, “and suggests the Fed is very worried.”
332 2007-12-13 Microsoft said it had agreed to acquire MultiMap, an online map service based in London, in an attempt to compete more effectively with the search services of Google and to collect more revenue from online and mobile advertising. The MultiMap Web site aids consumers in finding elusive addresses throughout Europe and the United States and in much of the rest of the world. It also offers services for business customers, allowing them to include maps on their Web sites. The acquisition, for an undisclosed amount, is part of a race by Microsoft and its competitors online to further develop their digital mapping abilities.
333 2007-12-13 A judge has dismissed the final claim in a libel suit against The Atlanta Journal-Constitution filed by Richard Jewell, the former security guard wrongly linked to the 1996 Olympic bombing. Mr. Jewell died of heart disease at age 44 in August. The judge, John R. Mather of State Court, dismissed the final claim Tuesday, said Peter Canfield, a lawyer for the newspaper. The judge had dismissed all but one of 22 claims last year. Mr. Jewell was hailed as a hero after the July 27, 1996, bombing at Centennial Olympic Park in Atlanta. But three days later, the newspaper described him as “the focus” of the investigation.
334 2007-12-13 Gov. Eliot Spitzer has nominated Ronald Goldstock to be New York State’s commissioner on the Waterfront Commission of New York Harbor, a bistate agency that certifies dockworkers and polices the waterfront. Mr. Goldstock previously worked as managing director at Kroll Associates, a private security firm, and was director of the New York State Organized Crime Task Force for more than 13 years. If approved by the State Senate, Mr. Goldstock would succeed Michael C. Axelrod. On Oct. 15, Mr. Spitzer issued an executive order instructing the state’s inspector general, Kristine Hamann, to look at “allegations of misfeasance and nonfeasance by personnel of the Waterfront Commission, including allegations of misconduct, conflicts of interest, abuse and waste.”
335 2007-12-13 In the Senate, Democrats have already accepted that preventing the A.M.T. from spreading to millions more middle-class taxpayers is more important than finding a way to pay for its absence, even if that means adding to the deficit.

Not so the Blue Dogs, who are urging House Democratic leaders to stand firm and refuse to break the pay-go rules.

At a news conference on Wednesday morning, Mr. Moore said: “It’s not just about my grandchildren. It’s about future generations in this country. We truly are passing on a big tax and a huge, huge burden to our kids and grandkids and future generations if we don’t do what’s right now.”

For the moment, the House is holding firm. On Wednesday, it approved yet another bill to repair the A.M.T. that includes $50 billion in offsetting tax increases.

But the Senate is virtually certain to reject it, just as it rejected a similar House bill last week.

Even Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the Democratic majority leader who stood with the Blue Dogs at their news conferences, acknowledged at his own news conference an hour later that House Democrats might have little choice in the matter.

“We will have to cross that bridge when we come to it,” Mr. Hoyer said, when asked whether the Blue Dogs were correct to presume that he and Speaker Nancy Pelosi will not violate the pay-go rules.

“We are hopeful that the Senate will, in fact, act in a fiscally responsible manner and that a sufficient number of Republicans can find it in their judgment appropriate to join with all of the Democrats in paying for an A.M.T. patch,” Mr. Hoyer said.

He also acknowledged that he was, to a degree, ducking the question.

“I understand what your question was,” Mr. Hoyer said. “I don’t want to answer your question, because I don’t want to anticipate that Republicans in the Senate won’t act responsibly. I hope they will.”

The comments seemed to confirm that A.M.T. has become a no-win situation for the House Democratic leaders, who have sought all year to support the Blue Dogs, especially freshman lawmakers who were elected last year in conservative districts.

The Blue Dogs insist that they will not vote for a bill that borrows money to repair the alternative minimum tax, which means that Ms. Pelosi may need Republican support to pass a bill.

Republicans are using the question to attack the Democrats at every turn, accusing them of trying to raise taxes to pay for a tax cut and, by procrastinating, of potentially subjecting millions more taxpayers to the A.M.T.

The Republicans also accuse the Democrats of planning ultimately to violate the pay-go rules less than a year after adopting them.

After the latest House bill was introduced, Representative Jim McCrery, Republican of Louisiana, called it a waste of time.

“The A.M.T. bill introduced by House Democrats with unnecessary tax increases is dead on arrival in the Senate,” Mr. McCrery said in a statement. “What we are watching is a Kabuki dance. It is political theater.”

In truth, both parties are to blame. Lawmakers have known for years that the tax would need to be cut. Yet they continued to include it in projections.

Mr. Ross, of Arkansas, insisted that the Blue Dogs would not back down.

“Our message to the Senate is that we are not going to vote for any bill that is not paid for,” he said. “If the Senate wants to spend Christmas Day here, we’re prepared to do that.”

Ms. Pelosi, in a spirited speech on Wednesday on the House floor, invoked the birth of her seventh grandchild, a boy, late last week, in arguing against increasing the national debt.

“We have a choice,” she said. “We can either close a loophole of tax evasion for the wealthiest people in America. Or we can take a little baby and all the little babies born across America and say, ‘You are going to pay the tab,’ because this money will be borrowed, probably from a foreign government, possibly from China.

“Put that on your tab, little baby. Because you are going to be paying the price.”
336 2007-12-13 WHEN children log onto Webkinz.com, the popular virtual world for children who buy Webkinz stuffed animals, they can send messages to their friends, decorate their virtual rooms and take trivia quizzes.

Now, they may also see advertisements.

The Webkinz site began running movie ads on its site in October, with ads for “Bee Movie” and later for “Alvin and the Chipmunks.” The ads run on the right side of the home page after users log in. The Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood, an advocacy group based in Boston, is demanding that the site remove the ads.

“One of the reasons why parents buy Webkinz for their children is the expectation that the site will be free from advertising,” said Susan Linn, the campaign’s director. “It’s disappointing that the site is choosing to maximize revenue at the expense of children.”

Webkinz dolls were introduced by a Toronto-based private company called Ganz in the spring of 2005 and have quickly become one of the most popular toys among the elementary-school set. The company uses the stuffed animals as a roundabout way to charge for online content. Instead of asking parents to pay for the Webkinz site by entering a credit card number online, Ganz packages access codes for the site with stuffed animals and trading cards sold in stores.

Other companies, like Mattel and Russ Berrie, have copied the approach. Traffic on Webkinz’s site grew by more than 800 percent over the last year, totaling 7.29 million unique visitors in October, according to Nielsen Online. Its closest competitor, Club Penguin from Disney, had 3.88 million visitors in that period.
337 2007-12-13 Freddie Fields, a retired Hollywood producer, studio executive and agent who helped found Creative Management Associates, one of the industry’s most influential talent agencies in the 1960s and early ’70s, died on Tuesday at his home in Beverly Hills. He was 84.

The cause was lung cancer, said Warren Cowan, a Hollywood publicist who announced the death on Wednesday.

With a colleague, David Begelman, Mr. Fields founded C.M.A. in 1960, and for the next 15 years Mr. Fields was considered one of the most powerful agents in Hollywood — perhaps the most powerful. Among his clients over the years were Steven Spielberg, George Lucas, Francis Ford Coppola, Paul Newman, Robert Redford, Henry Fonda, Steve McQueen, Jack Nicholson, Barbra Streisand, Woody Allen, Judy Garland, Fred Astaire and Jackie Gleason.

In the mid-1970s C.M.A. merged with the International Famous Agency to create International Creative Management. Representing actors, authors and many other high-level professionals, I.C.M. is today widely considered the titan of talent agencies.

In the 1980s Mr. Fields held several top positions with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, including president of worldwide production for MGM/United Artists Entertainment. In later years he was an independent producer. His film credits include “Lipstick” (1976), “Looking for Mr. Goodbar” (1977), “American Gigolo” (1980), “Crimes of the Heart” (1986) and “Glory” (1989). For television, Mr. Fields was executive producer of “The Montel Williams Show,” the nationally syndicated talk show.

Mr. Fields was born Fred Feldman on July 12, 1923, in Ferndale, N.Y.; his brother was the well-known bandleader Shep Fields. Their father, Jack, ran a Catskills resort known as the Queen Mountain House, which featured entertainers like Al Jolson and Eddie Cantor. When Freddie was a young child, his father died; growing up, Freddie worked a series odd jobs and discovered he had a gift for selling things, or, more accurately, for selling people.
338 2007-12-13 OTTAWA — Overriding the safety concerns of its regulator, the Canadian government is rushing through legislation to reopen a nuclear reactor that produces most of the world’s supply of a medically important diagnostic isotope.

Hospitals worldwide have canceled or delayed thousands of nuclear medicine tests used to diagnose a wide array of illnesses because of the prolonged shutdown of the reactor in Chalk River, Ontario, near Ottawa.

Atomic Energy of Canada, the government company that owns the reactor, closed it for regular maintenance on Nov. 18. But inspectors from Canada’s nuclear regulatory agency subsequently discovered that the 50-year-old reactor still lacked systems that Atomic Energy was ordered to install to prevent a potentially dangerous reactor failure after a natural disaster like an earthquake.

The legislation, which was pushed through the House of Commons late Tuesday night, will suspend the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission’s oversight of the reactor for 120 days and allow Atomic Energy to restart it immediately. The bill was approved by Canada’s unelected Senate on Wednesday night.

“There will be no nuclear accident,” Prime Minister Stephen Harper told the House of Commons on Tuesday. “On the contrary, what we do know is that the continuing actions of the Liberal-appointed Nuclear Safety Commission will jeopardize the health and safety and lives of tens of thousands of Canadians.”
339 2007-12-13 The Baltimore Orioles traded Miguel Tejada to the Houston Astros on Wednesday for outfielder Luke Scott, pitchers Matt Albers, Troy Patton and Dennis Sarfate, and third baseman Michael Costanzo.

“I feel very happy with this trade, because it’s something that I’ve been really looking forward to,” said Tejada, 31, a four-time All-Star and the American League’s most valuable player in 2002. Two years ago, Tejada said he wanted to be traded, but he later backed off that stance.

Tejada hit .296 with 18 homers and 81 runs batted in last season. In 11 seasons, he has hit .287 with 258 homers and 1,033 R.B.I.

“The reality is when you are talking about a player of this magnitude, you have to go in with every expectation that the asking price is going to be very high,” Astros General Manager Ed Wade said.

PETTITTE CALLS WANG AN ACE When Andy Pettitte agreed to rejoin the Yankees last Monday, the team was deep into trade talks for the Minnesota Twins’ left-hander Johan Santana. Pettitte’s return lessened the need for Santana, and the Yankees pulled out of talks a day later.
340 2007-12-13 “There is no doubt the Chinese are increasingly hearing this from other members of the global economy,” Mr. Paulson said. “I don’t just think — I know — they’re hearing more from others.”

But in a sign of the discord apparently going on in the meetings, a Chinese official said at a news conference that calls from outsiders for China to engage in “excessive” appreciation of the yuan were irresponsible.

“We are not in favor of excessively fast appreciation of Chinese currency,” said Chen Deming, vice minister of commerce, who is scheduled to become the minister next year. “I don’t think it will serve all of us any good.”

American officials say that China is worried that raising interest rates, slowing the economy and allowing the value of its currency to rise will shrink the economy and throw people out of work, leading to instability.

Meeting in a conference center here south of Beijing modeled after buildings from the Forbidden City, the American and Chinese delegates moved from large halls to small side rooms in their efforts to reach understandings. They were fortified by what American officials described as the success of a separate process that resulted in the signing of agreements Tuesday, including one on food safety that called for American health inspectors to play a greater role in inspections in China.

That agreement was negotiated over the last six months by Michael O. Leavitt, the secretary of health and human services, who said that without the dialogue set up last year, it would have been harder to arrange for officials from several agencies to meet with their Chinese counterparts.

Other agreements signed by Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez and Susan C. Schwab, the United States trade representative, called for market openings in some limited areas like exports of American medical devices.

It was evident, on the other hand, that even as some issues were being solved, others were popping up. American officials were dismayed to learn, for example, of the latest action by the Chinese this week in barring imports of American-made films, many of them Hollywood blockbusters.

The suspension of imports means that the Chinese will obtain pirated copies of the films at a time the United States has taken China to the World Trade Organization to try to force it to do more to crack down on piracy and counterfeiting of trademarks, videos, music and software.

According to American officials, Ms. Schwab in one meeting raised other issues, including what she said was a lack of authorization for American credit cards and insurance services, and also the monopoly of the official news agency Xinhua.

She and Mr. Gutierrez also raised concerns about China’s new antimonopoly law and a regulation on mergers and acquisitions, which American business leaders say they fear could lead to the exclusion of American companies from Chinese consumers and markets.

Both have said they are concerned that the use of arcane regulations and rules, governing everything from the size of cellphone batteries to the types of wheels for motorcycles, appears aimed at keeping American products out. United States officials said they had been pressing China for a declaration at this session that this was not its intention.

A top trade official said that a declaration at the opening meeting by Vice Premier Wu Yi, the leader of the Chinese delegation, that Beijing had no intention of abandoning its openness policy was somewhat reassuring, but many remain unconvinced.

At one point, Mr. Gutierrez and his team brought a Harley-Davidson motorcycle into the conference center and asked the future commerce minister, Mr. Chen, to pose on top of it. Harley-Davidson maintains that it is barred from selling its motorcycles in China because of new rules on the size of wheels.

“We heard a very strong, impassioned and lengthy defense of China’s open investment policy,” a trade official said. “That was encouraging, but we do continue to see these problems pop up.”

Ms. Wu, a focus of much discussion among American officials, is an energetic and blunt alumna of China’s bureaucracy, with a reputation as a problem solver but also as someone who pushes back. On Wednesday morning she lectured the Americans about not blaming China for their problems at home.

Earlier this week, she asserted that the American news media had “hyped” the problem of food safety and damaged China’s image. An American official said that she was susceptible to equally tough talk in return.

“This was an opportunity for us to say to the Chinese, ‘You know what? It’s not media hype,’ ” a trade official said. But he said that those who want to open Chinese markets might increasingly be on the defensive against those who want to keep high barriers to foreign investments and products.
341 2007-12-13 The 3M Company said on Wednesday that it expected double-digit sales and earnings growth in 2008 and forecast profit slightly above the average Wall Street estimate.

The company expects its growth to come from international markets and the weaker dollar. It forecast moderately softer world economic growth next year, with the United States continuing to be slow but still growing.

The second half of the year is likely to be stronger than the first, and the company forecast strong and sustainable growth in developing economies like Brazil, Russia, India and China. It also expects no relief in the residential housing market in the United States.

3M expects 2008 earnings of $5.44 to $5.47 a share. Analysts’ average estimate is $5.42, according to Reuters Estimates.

The company said it expected sales from existing businesses to grow 5 percent to 8 percent next year, while acquisitions would contribute about 3 percent to revenue growth.

It said current exchange rates suggest the weak dollar would add up to 3 percent to sales growth.

Almost two-thirds of its sales next year will be generated overseas, said the chief executive, George W. Buckley.

That exposure is the highest in the industrial group, an analyst at JPMorgan, Stephen Tusa, said in a research note.
342 2007-12-13 WASHINGTON (Reuters) — A Democratic senator said Wednesday that Christmas tree ornaments sold at Wal-Mart Stores and other major retailers were made in a Chinese sweatshop employing workers as young as 12 and others who work more than 100 hours a week.

“There is virtually no enforcement anywhere on these issues,” Senator Byron L. Dorgan of North Dakota said at a news conference concerning the release of a study on Chinese sweatshops that provide cheap goods for the American market. “Our country needs to insist that our trading partners enforce their own labor laws and respect international labor standards.”

The study was conducted by the National Labor Committee, a human rights organization, and highlighted conditions at the Guangzhou Huanya Gift company, an ornament maker in China that employs 8,000 workers.

It found that some employees had been paid as little as 26 cents an hour, half the legal minimum wage in China, and that employees in the spray paint department had handled potentially dangerous chemicals with little or no protection.

Efforts to reach Guangzhou Huanya for comment were not successful.

Wal-Mart said it had started an investigation immediately after receiving a copy of the report. “Through our rigorous ethical standards program, Wal-Mart aggressively deals with any allegations of improper conditions at our suppliers’ factories,” a company spokesman said.

Mr. Dorgan said the report highlighted a “serious trade problem” that has also been brought to the public’s attention by recalls for millions of Chinese-made toys in recent months.
343 2007-12-13 Judge Ishii, though, said that California was entitled to set its own stricter standards under the Clean Air Act, if the Environmental Protection Agency grants a waiver from federal law, which it has done dozens of times in the last 35 years. California applied to the Bush administration for a waiver in December 2005. The White House has said that it will issue a decision by the end of this month.

While Republican and Democratic administrations have routinely granted California waivers on pollution programs, this one is more controversial because the auto companies and other industries are lobbying heavily against it, saying it will cost them too much to comply. The White House has not tipped its hand on California’s application.

The judge also rejected the automakers’ claim that the state law usurps the federal government’s right to conduct foreign policy because climate change is a global problem. He said there was no legal precedent for the claim.

“This is the fourth defeat for the Bush administration and the auto companies,” Mr. Brown said, “and I hope it sends a powerful message to the White House and to Congress that California’s role as an innovator should be appreciated and not negated.”

He was referring to an April decision by the United States Supreme Court affirming the E.P.A.’s authority to regulate vehicles’ greenhouse gas emissions; a federal court ruling from Vermont in May upholding California’s law; and a federal appeals court ruling in November chastising the Department of Transportation for failing to enforce its vehicle mileage rules and for not taking the impact of exhaust gases into account.

In 2002, California adopted the first state law requiring auto makers to begin reducing emissions of carbon dioxide and other gases. In 2004, it issued rules for achieving the reductions. Vermont adopted the same standards, as did other states, including Connecticut, New Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania.

Fran Pavley, a former member of the California State Assembly who wrote the emissions bill, said on Wednesday that Judge Ishii’s ruling represented a legal tipping point, leaving the automakers and the Bush administration isolated on the regulation of gases that scientists say contribute to global warming.

“What we’re finding is that this is a bipartisan issue,” Ms. Pavley said. “The states have moved on and they are working together to be responsible in doing their fair share to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.”
344 2007-12-13 WASHINGTON (Reuters) — The United States trade deficit widened slightly in October as a record price for imported oil outweighed the export-spurring benefits of a weaker dollar, the Commerce Department reported on Wednesday.

Rising oil costs also pushed import prices 2.7 percent higher in November, the largest gain in 17 years, raising concerns about inflation, according to a report from the Labor Department.

The monthly trade gap widened 1.2 percent to $57.8 billion, as the average price for imported oil jumped nearly 6 percent to $72.49 a barrel. Minus petroleum, the deficit was its lowest since March 2004.

“The entire increase in the October deficit was due to the oil component, where higher prices and increased volumes pushed up the petroleum deficit by $2.3 billion,” said Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist with High Frequency Economics.

America’s overall trade deficit has shrunk more than 8 percent in the first nine months after hitting a record of $785.5 billion for 2006.

The October report was another indication that a weak dollar and stronger growth overseas are increasing exports, which rose for an eighth consecutive month to a record $141.7 billion.
345 2007-12-13 The small-business lobbying group that had a big role in derailing Hillary Rodham Clinton’s effort to overhaul health care in the early 1990s has staked out its position for the 2008 political season.

The group, the National Federation of Independent Business, which says it has 350,000 members and lobbyists in 50 states, warned politicians and policy makers on Wednesday not to impose new health-benefit obligations on small employers.

The group said in a statement of principles that “a health care system built on employer mandates or on play-or-pay taxes is unacceptable.”

The Democratic presidential candidates, including Senator Clinton, Barack Obama and John Edwards, have generally called for requiring employers to provide coverage or to pay into a fund to help insure many of the 47 million people in the United States without coverage. Republican candidates have talked less about health care, usually supporting the Bush administration’s proposals for tax incentives to help pay for coverage.

“We are opposed to payroll taxes,” said Susan Eckerly, a vice president for the business federation. “They are the No. 1 job killer for the small-business owner.”
346 2007-12-13 In fact, Mr. Pons is an expert on Mr. Carle — and vice versa — as a result of a close three-year collaboration. “The harmony between these two men was lovely to watch,” said Mrs. Carle, who is 10 years younger than her husband.

Together, Mr. Carle and Mr. Pons turned an ordinary building into a sleek collage of Brazilian ipe wood, concrete and steel. Mr. Carle said of Mr. Pons, “I had deliberately sought out someone different, even exotic, and sometimes it was a leap of faith to go along.” But he considers Mr. Pons an artist and said he believes in letting artists have their way. “If you hire me, it’s because you want an Eric Carle,” he said. “You’re not going to get a Maurice Sendak.”

The process took three years, in part because of the difficulty of getting contractors in the Keys to build the house as Mr. Pons envisioned it. That was a little long for Mrs. Carle, so she has taken over the renovation of a house she and her husband recently bought on a mountain in North Carolina, where they plan to spend summers. “He’s been fired,” Mrs. Carle said, good-naturedly, of her husband. They recently sold their house in Northampton, Mass., so their move to the South is complete.

Both Carles are thrilled with the Florida house, which is finished except for a few items, including a rug based on the endpaper of Mr. Carle’s latest book, “Baby Bear, Baby Bear, What Do You See?” (Mr. Pons is having the rug custom-woven in Canada.) Indeed, Mr. Carle finds the new house so comfortable, he said, that he’s feeling the urge to start working again, perhaps on another book.

In his studio, the previous master bedroom, file drawers overflow with sheets of tissue paper to which he has applied acrylic paint in jaunty patterns. When he’s ready to create an illustration, he cuts the paper into strips and begins fitting them together.

Mr. Carle’s creativity, he said, may be a reaction to his own childhood, which started out in bright colors, then faded to gray.

Mr. Carle was born in Syracuse to German immigrant parents. When he was 6, in the mid-1930s, his mother, who was homesick, decided to take the family back to Stuttgart. “My father was adamant about not going to Germany,” Mr. Carle said, “but women usually get their way.”

The decision was disastrous. Mr. Carle’s father was drafted by the Nazis and ended up a Russian prisoner of war. Mr. Carle says his books were inspired by the father he knew before the war — a man who, he said, “took me for long walks through fields and woods and explained to me the wonders of nature — bees and ants, frogs and birds, tiny bugs living under the bark of dead trees.”

In 1944, Germany, desperate for manpower, tried to conscript the 15-year-old Mr. Carle, but as a citizen of the United States he was able to avoid serving. Though he was studying art, he remembers the time as drab — not only the northern European weather, he said, but also “the grays, browns and dirty greens used by the Nazis to camouflage the buildings.” His father returned from the war weighing 85 pounds, “a broken man.”

In 1952, Mr. Carle, carrying his portfolio of graphic design work, moved to New York and began working in advertising. After six months he was drafted by the United States Army (the Korean War was raging) and sent to a base in Germany — where, he says, he had little money left after buying things like soap and coffee for his family. After he returned to New York, he worked at an ad agency. One of his illustrations caught the attention of a writer, Bill Martin Jr., who enlisted Mr. Carle to illustrate a book called “Brown Bear, Brown Bear, What Do You See?” Since then, Mr. Carle has written the words for nearly all of his books, with the help, he always points out, of his editor of 40 years, Ann Beneduce.

Mr. Carle was divorced and a father of two, living in Manhattan, when he met Bobbie Morrison. They married in 1973 and moved to Massachusetts in 1974. In a part of the country filled with literary stars, it’s likely that no one has sold as many books as Mr. Carle. He gives part of his earnings to the museum in Amherst, which shows his work along with that of other illustrators.

With his latest move, Mr. Carle said the one thing he did not want was a house that looked like it could be in Massachusetts. Vestiges of northern climates, like the shutters on the board-and-batten exterior and the house’s fireplace, were the first things to go. “We wanted a tropical, Latin American and Caribbean feel,” he said. Like most houses in the Florida Keys, it was supported on concrete columns, to protect the interiors from storm surges. When the Carles bought the house, the area between the columns was wasted on storage bins and pool equipment.

Mr. Pons saw that the ground level could become a kind of outdoor living room, with the house as a sheltering roof. Now outdoor furniture clusters around the wooden decks that overlook the pool. Gone is a gazebo that Mr. Pons disliked, though Mr. Carle said he still feels guilty about tearing down a perfectly good structure. An in-ground hot tub, which the Carles didn’t plan to use, became a planter.

The Carles did think they would need an elevator someday, so Mr. Pons added it to the front of the building. He wanted to cantilever a stairway from the elevator shaft. Local codes wouldn’t allow that, so he ended up with a stairway that wraps around the shaft within a structure of concrete and wooden louvers.

While showing a visitor around the house, Mr. Carle lamented that the concrete wasn’t as smooth as it might have been, but then he warmed up to the surfaces’ collage-like qualities. The concrete makes the front of the house opaque, sensible because it faces the road, while the side facing the ocean is transparent.

Inside, the spaces are largely as Mr. Pons found them, except that “we opened it up, cleaned it up and made it flow,” he said. In designing the kitchen, which is the opposite of slick — the sides of some units are open, so the hardware supporting the drawers is visible — he was inspired by a visit to Mr. Carle’s Northampton studio. The studio is filled with what he described as “the kind of furniture a carpenter would build for his own workshop.”

Mr. Carle described the house as a visual treat. “The eyes are always working, always looking,” Mr. Carle said. “People like Luis, and hopefully myself, we try to create pretty things for the eyes to look at.”
347 2007-12-13 Where, one might ask at times like these, are the elegantly embossed cards people really need, ones reading: “I can’t believe I could have been so insensitive.” Or better yet, “I can’t believe you could have been so insensitive.”

They might also include a sketch of a sophisticated, well-traveled pet. Something for an animal that understands, even if others do not, that it is a valued family member. And of course a handwritten note, the tone bemused but firm.

“Rex is truly sorry he sent Granny to the emergency room with the oxygen mask, but it isn’t like anyone told me she was allergic. All is forgiven, see you next New Year’s. Leaps and Gloppy Drooly Kisses — R.”

Difficult guests are no longer limited to humans. The boundaries between humans and animals have been so eaten away by pet therapists, pet designer outfits and pet bar mitzvahs, that it has reached a point where devoted owners, who treat their animals as privileged children, lose all perspective on the pet’s role in their social lives.

More American households have pets than ever — 68.7 million of them in 2006, according to a new survey by the American Veterinary Medical Association, up 12.4 percent from 2001.

Among dog owners, 53.5 percent considered their pets to be members of the family, the survey found. For cats, the number was 49.2 percent.

And the term “family member” should not be used lightly. Ari Henry Barnes, who works in a New York law firm, is so devoted to his cat, Romeo, that he wipes the animal’s behind every time he does “a stinky boom boom.”

When the cat became an extended houseguest at the home of good friends, Mr. Barnes found it stressful, because despite his wishes, the cat was allowed outside. “I think anybody who is taking care of someone else’s child or pet, they should protect the parent’s wishes.”

Derek Welsh, the president of www.bringyourpet.com, a “pet-friendly” hotel and lodging directory, estimates the number at roughly 10 million a year.

Mr. Welsh also said that in a Bring Your Pet survey of 100,000 self-selected pet owners, 38.5 percent said they had difficulty finding pet-friendly lodging.

This means there’s a very good chance they may be visiting soon. And so, for animal owners and those on the hosting end of the equation, a guide.

OMITTING THE WORDS ‘PLUS ONE DOG’ ON THE INVITATION WAS NOT A PRINTER’S ERROR

A legion of two animal experts interviewed agreed that taking an unexpected animal to a party is impolite. “You never spring a doggy or any other uninvited guest on a host,” said Claudia Kawczynska, the editor in chief of Bark magazine. “If you do get a green light, bring a lot of treats for both your dog and the human host.”

What if the owner cannot bear to leave the dog at home?

“Many pet owners exhibit hyper-attachment,” said Victoria Stilwell, the British host of “It’s Me or the Dog,” a show on the Animal Planet network. But that is not fair to the dog, she said, because it may suffer intense when it is left alone. Also, she pointed out, “If you allow your pets to become hyper-attached, you’d better understand that it will limit your human relationships.”

ADMITTING YOU HAVE A PROBLEM IS THE FIRST STEP

Her name is Elisabeth Montoya. She is a 30-year-old lawyer who lives in Bozeman, Mont., with her husband, Johnny, an architect, their 2 ½-year-old son, Jack, and their 88-pound golden retriever, Diego del Mar de la Joya Montoya.

Before her son was born, Ms. Montoya admits, she was “really annoying” with the dog. “We nearly expected him to be given a place setting at the table.” Even now, she remains a dogaholic.

“The first time we brought Diego to my mom’s house was a disaster,” Ms. Montoya said. “He walked straight to the white-carpeted living room and proceeded to lift up his tail.”

The dog dragged himself perhaps 6 to 8 feet. “He left a noticeable brown streak in his wake. Horrifying.”

Now, Diego is even worse, Ms. Montoya said. He even bolted off the porch and bit a passer-by the other day.

“I babied him so much,” she said. “That’s why he’s like this.”

“We used to bring him to other people’s houses,” she said, “but now we don’t bring him around. He’s the cover dog for the worst dog ever.”

BEING WILLING TO MAKE AMENDS IS A NICE GESTURE, BUT NOT NECESSARILY A SOLUTION

Ms. Montoya appears farther along the road to recovery than the couple who attended a catered dinner for out-of-town wedding guests with their puppy.

The setting was not far from , Colo., in a home so lovely it is frequently featured in shelter magazines. The name of the puppy — a truly out-of-control guest — was Dude.

“It was unbelievable that good friends of mine and good friends of the parents of the bride would even consider bringing this dog,” said the hostess, a photographer and amateur landscape gardener named Sally who, perhaps because of the trauma, would not permit her last name to be used.

“The first thing Dude did was jump into the outdoor pond,” Sally said. “He shakes off on the grass lawn, then promptly heads inside and leaps onto the white couches, leaving a trail of pond scum. Then he runs outside, jumps onto one of the dining chairs, jumps on the table and helps himself to the hors d’oeuvres and fillet.”

A week later Sally received a note of apology, suggesting that she let bygones be bygones, signed with a paw print. Sally did not respond, which, she said, very much annoyed Dude’s owner.

This happened five years ago, and they have not spoken since.

The owners declined to discuss the matter with a reporter, but sent a comment through the bride: “Dude categorically denies everything.”

Problems can also occur when the guests assume that if the hosts have dogs, they, too, can bring theirs. This was the case with Donna Engelson, a 65-year-old former clothing designer, and her husband, Mel Engelson, a hardware manufacturer who for a time shared a home with Mr. Engelson’s brother and business partner, Larry, along with his wife, Tina, and Tina’s golden retriever, Cooper.

Although Donna Engelson had had as a child, she did not worry about the dog. Her sister-in-law kept the house vacuumed and the dog upstairs.

One summer, the couples had a big Labor Day party. Since the Engelsons had a dog, friends brought theirs. After the third dog, Donna Engelson wound up in the emergency room. “It was very scary,” Ms. Engelson said. “My breathing capacity was 65 percent of what it was.” The couples are still close, but they have their own houses.

There was the time Rosi Kerr, today a 32-year-old New York energy salesperson, then a teaching intern in an elite boarding school, brought her golden retriever puppy, Gus, to a meeting with the school’s director, who happened to be a cat owner. Ms. Kerr wanted to extend her stay at the school, but had a feeling the director did not feel the same.

She certainly had not planned to bring her new puppy, but she was running late.

“I sat in the living room trying to keep an eye on my dog as he wandered and sniffed,” Ms. Kerr said. “Somewhere along the line, I lost track of Gus. As she described how I was not a very good listener, I frantically craned my neck looking for my puppy.”

Gus reappeared just as the director told Ms. Kerr she was being dismissed and dropped a large, kitty litter-encrusted deposit at the director’s feet.
348 2007-12-13 It should be illuminating to hear back from her six months from now on whether she has had to lower her expectations, and if so, by how much.

Right now, Ms. Ericson’s expectations run high. She says she believes that Mamaisms Gear may someday become a household name and a force for good.

She wants to set an example of philanthropy, she says, by donating 5 percent of profits to the Parenting Place, an outreach program in Wilmington for troubled families.

Mamaisms is just part of the story because Ms. Ericson is also starting another company.

She already owns a consulting firm that specializes in online marketing. It is small — she works out of her home and earns, she says, $175,000 a year. This month, she plans to sign a partnership agreement with two and perhaps three people to create a company called Shout Option Marketing to do consulting for the financial sector, with an emphasis on options trading and futures trading services.

“Say you publish an investment newsletter,” Ms. Ericson said, “and want to grow your subscriber base and revenue but don’t want to hire a copy editor, designer, assistant marketing director and so forth. We’ll provide a turnkey solution. We’ll write the copy, do the positioning, do the branding, the marketing, everything you need.”

She believes she has found a lucrative niche that no other company has exploited, and is confident she can build it quickly. Already, she says, she has signed up 10 clients.

And while she is the chief executive of both enterprises, she does not expect the dual jobs to wear her out. She actually likes working 15-hour days, she says, and returning home from business trips to the West Coast at 4 a.m., as happened recently. Besides, she adds, being in charge has been a natural role for her going back to the time a nun at her parochial school gave her the nickname “the ringleader.”

“I’m a hypersocial person,” she said. “I’m a networker. Both my companies are extensions of my personality.”

She also has two children, Sean, 7, and Ingrid, 5. But her husband, Adam, agreed upon the arrival of his first child to step out of his career as a book buyer and become a stay-at-home dad.

Mr. Thornberry of Babson College says she has more going for her than just her passion. “She has a real job — a backup plan that allows her to play around a lot, and learn while she makes mistakes.”

Even so, he saw it as a risky investment for now. For one thing, Mamaisms Gear appears to him “fragmented and unfocused,” he said. “If there is a unified theme, it seems to be, you can trust the Mamaisms Gear brand and advice. But it takes a long time to build trust in a brand.”

He went on: “What’s her one-minute elevator pitch to a potential investor? At this stage, I think she’d be hard pressed to do that.” However, he said, “she’s on the right track. She’s going to get her hands dirty and test the market. She will probably learn a lot more over the next six months about what the real opportunities are. If so, outside investment will come.”

Ms. Ericson says she did her homework before plunging into Mamaisms Gear. She and a partner, Jane Chaucer, a stay-at-home mother with a creative bent (she invented a foam-rubber stabilizing pad for infant car seats that produces a steady stream of licensing fees), wore prototypes of their T-shirts emblazoned with “Mama Says” admonishments and were stopped wherever they went by women who said, “My mama told me that 50 times a day.”

Together, they have put $35,000 into the venture. They have also persuaded Ms. Ericson’s sister, Katie Atkinson, a national marketing director for an online company, and Ms. Chaucer’s sister, Kathleen Smith, to help out.

Partnerships are known for foundering in disputes over uneven workloads. Ms. Ericson acknowledges that, but says, “We’re very candid about dividing the duties fairly and making sure everybody pulls her own weight.”

At present, she is doing most of the work, from writing content for her Web site to lining up contributors. So far, she has pressed into service a human resources specialist, a lawyer, a real estate professional, a pediatrician and a journalist.

She has no illusions about the difficulties she faces. She and Ms. Chaucer cannot afford to rent space, so they will work out of their homes. They are also feeling the usual stings of entrepreneurial misfortune.

“You think you have everything covered, and then details pop up that you hadn’t thought about,” she said. “Like color choices, whether the shirts will shrink if you wash them in hot water and put them through a hot drying cycle. I’m a believer, but I underestimated the steps from A to B.” As a result, she said, “We’re being extra careful to get things right the first time around. To go through the process of trial and error before the launch, not after.”
349 2007-12-13 I adore Dolce & Gabbana. It is right on code for my weak and confused cultural identity: I yearn to dress with the authority of a kleptocratic cannibal.

Sitting among suitcase-size handbags made from giant robot snakes was a crocodile bag the same size, shape and color of a human torso. This seemed to be deliberately marketed toward women who prefer their husbands disassembled, and in the overhead compartment ($49,000!). If you’re transporting smaller limbs, $750,000 in small bills or raw uranium, there is a $29,000 doctor’s-bag version, in the dark plum of sacrificial ox entrails.

I found the black striped silk cardigan I had only seen in dreams, and cursed a jealous God for making it $1,095.

The second-floor shoe section is wrapped around an S-shaped sectional couch in black velvet. Dolce & Gabbana shoes look sensational — exotic, cruel little weapons. Sadly, they can be hit or miss in terms of adhering to a human foot. I went straight for pointy crocodile pumps, dyed arterial red ($1,825). I was salivating with a desire to feel their blood on the dance floor. Agony!

I was ready to commit $695 to pumps with chrome toes and heel shafts. For any girl who has lived among Belgian cobblestones, these shoes represent $35 a month in heel repair that could go straight to the dermatology slush fund. But the curse was upon them: they had apparently been molded on the Queen of Sheba’s goat hoof, or perhaps a ball-and-claw table leg.

At the top of the third-floor escalator, an excruciatingly handsome Alain Delon type offered me a flute of Veuve, or a Grey Goose cocktail. That’s it, I thought. This is my promised land. Hold my animal, I’m staging a putsch.

Drooling over racks of totalitarian resort finery, I succumbed to delusions of megalomania. I selected noms de guerre and despotic monikers for each outfit: Madame Subcommandantrix. La Cobra Blanca. She Who Leaves a Flaming Trail of Plastic Animal-Print Combat Garments en Route to the Glorious People’s Jacuzzi.

An example of superlative service: You have selected over $30,000 of garments — and there are three of them, total. They are carried into the “special” dressing room (the one with — no lie — what I believed to be actual cheetah fur covering the doors). You remark: “I’ll be in here for a while. I am going to do a pile of blow and clean my gun.”

The sterling professional, instead of dialing security, quips that you’ll be “needing another drink.”

This is how it feels to hold a nation in fear!

The black sequined flapper dress will be given to me in the Harlem of heaven: a jeweled grosgrain belt, heartbreaking drape and swish. It was “special” — i.e., one of a kind; i.e., $10,995. I wept.

The real coup: A silver lamé pantsuit with cigarette legs and black magic. It had eaten young Elvis and absorbed his power. I pictured myself on an all-chrome Jet Ski, catching air over a strobe-lit ocean of mercury. With a Vegas horn section.

“Shall I call the fitter?” the sterling professional asked. That suit ($3,850) wasn’t to come off until M.P.’s pried my corpse out of it. Oh, for a tyranny of one’s own. I vowed to return with euros after selling black helicopters to Libya, and my mother, too.

The men’s department is not for Hemingway types who shoot their own meat. Dolce seems to be haberdashing toward the ethically askew: gilded Mafiosi, preening hedge funders, thugonomists, wannabe plutocrats. These men wear buttercup-yellow lambskin motocross jackets and laser-cut wingtip pimp booties.

“Well,” said the salesman, with evident distaste, “I suppose you could wear it in Miami.”

One white disco suit with black lapels was pure “Scarface”: something Suge Knight might wear to a midnight showing of the sing-it-yourself “Saturday Night Fever.”

I’m not saying Dolce & Gabbana celebrates brutality, but they do make me think that all my wardrobe really needs is a gold-plated Kalashnikov, an entourage of boy soldiers and a necklace of human teeth. They pour gasoline on life’s more incendiary fantasies by tempting you to submit to your moral incompetence: to indulge your most terrible defense mechanisms, to abuse power.

Life, she is dirty and cheap, but not my handbag. Bring me the head of St. John Sport. I am the Lizard Queen.

VENI Come to D & G’s just reopened Upper East Side empire for unnatural resources well worth looting.

VIDI See the Central Casting gods working in mysterious customers: Are they Cuban drug lords? Slave traders? Wives of Adnan Khashoggi? Well, they certainly look like them.

VICI Conquer the last of your virtue, submit to buying $80,000 worth of mink handbags and crocodile boots, and charge it to the taxpayers by any means necessary.
350 2007-12-13 “There is no doubt the Chinese are increasingly hearing this from other members of the global economy,” Mr. Paulson said. “I don’t just think — I know — they’re hearing more from others.”

But in a sign of the discord apparently going on inside the meetings, a key Chinese official said at a news conference that calls from outsiders for China to engage in what he called “excessive” appreciation of its currency were irresponsible.

“We are not in favor of excessively fast appreciation of Chinese currency,” said Chen Deming, vice minister of commerce, who is scheduled to become minister next year. “I don’t think it will serve all of us any good.”

American officials explain that China is worried that raising interest rates, slowing down the economy and allowing the value of its currency to rise will contract the economy and throw people out of work, leading to instability.

Meeting in a conference center southeast of Beijing modeled after buildings from the Forbidden City, the American and Chinese delegates moved from large halls to small side rooms in their efforts to reach understandings on a range of issues.

They were fortified by what American officials pronounced as the success of a separate process that culminated on Tuesday afternoon at which the two sides signed several agreements, including one on food and feed safety calling for American health inspectors to play a greater role in inspections in China itself.

That agreement had been negotiated over the last six months by Michael O. Leavitt, secretary of health and human services, who said that without the strategic dialogue set up last year, it would have been harder to convene officials from several different agencies to meet with their Chinese counterparts.

Other agreements signed by Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez and Susan C. Schwab, the senior American trade envoy, called for market openings in some limited areas like American medical-device exports.

It was evident, on the other hand, that even as some immediate issues were being solved, other issues were popping up. American officials were dismayed to learn, for example, of the latest action by the Chinese this week in barring imports of American-made films, many of them Hollywood blockbusters.

The suspension of imports meant that Chinese would obtain pirated copies of these films illegally at a time when the United States has taken China to court at the World Trade Organization to try to force it to do more to crack down on piracy and counterfeiting of trademarks, videos, music and software.

According to American officials, Ms. Schwab, in one of the private meetings, raised other issues, including what she said was a lack of access for American credit cards and insurance services and the monopoly in China of Xinhua, the Chinese news agency.

She and Mr. Gutierrez also raised concerns about China’s new anti-monopoly law and a regulation on mergers and acquisitions that American business leaders say they fear could lead to exclusion of American companies from Chinese consumers and markets.

Both have said they are concerned that the use of arcane regulations and rules, governing everything from the size of cellphone batteries to the types of wheels for motorcycles, appears aimed at keeping American products out. American officials said they had been pressing China for a declaration at this session that this was not its intent.

A top trade official said that a declaration by Vice Premier Wu Yi, the leader of the Chinese delegation, at the opening meeting that China had no intention of abandoning its openness policy was somewhat reassuring, but many remain unconvinced.

At one point, Mr. Gutierrez and his team brought a Harley-Davidson motorcycle into the conference center and asked the future commerce minister, Mr. Chen, to pose on top of it. Harley-Davidson maintains that it is barred from selling its popular motorcycles in China because of new rules on the size of motorcycle wheels.
351 2007-12-13 The legal siege against the Bush administration’s counterterrorism programs goes far beyond the C.I.A., including lawsuits brought on behalf of hundreds of detainees held at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, and more than 40 challenges in court to the National Security Agency’s warrantless surveillance program.

For some at the C.I.A., the second-guessing began in 2004 with a decision by Mr. Goldsmith, now at Harvard Law School, to withdraw the 2002 opinion on interrogation, whose sweeping constitutional claims and narrow definition of torture he found fatally flawed. But he said he regretted the way the agency had been whipsawed — accused of “risk aversion” immediately after the Sept. 11 attacks, and now blamed for traducing American values by engaging in torture.

“Things that seemed to them five years ago to have airtight legal and political support are now under investigation,” he said, comparing this cycle to the Senate hearings into C.I.A. abuses in the 1970s and the criminal prosecution of C.I.A. officials in the Iran-contra affair of the 1980s.

Even a C.I.A. officer involved in capturing and questioning leaders of Al Qaeda expresses a striking ambivalence about the policies that were carried out.

John C. Kiriakou, who helped lead the team that caught the Qaeda operative Abu Zubaydah in Pakistan in March 2002, went public on ABC News this week with such a message. He said he saw intelligence reports saying that waterboarding, a technique that induces a sense of suffocation, had caused Abu Zubaydah to start talking after 35 seconds.

But Mr. Kiriakou, a 43-year-old father of four who left the agency in 2004, also said in an interview that he believed waterboarding was torture and should never be used again, because “we Americans are better than that.” He added: “I think the second-guessing of 2002 decisions is unfair. What I think is fair is having a national debate over whether we should be waterboarding.”

Legal hazards were on the minds of Bush administration officials from the beginning of the response to 9/11. The 2002 Justice Department interrogation opinion laid out some defenses interrogators might use against criminal accusations of torture.

“The administration’s success in preventing attacks has become its enemy,” said John Yoo, the former Justice official who wrote most of the 2002 opinion. Since then, he added, “The political environment has changed because people feel the threat is less than it used to be.”

Mr. Yoo’s legal opinions, though criticized as seriously flawed by some scholars, may nonetheless provide impenetrable armor for C.I.A. officers. From the beginning, wary agency officials insisted on what they called “top cover” — written Justice Department approval for what they did.

Most legal scholars say that even under a future administration, the Justice Department would not seek charges against C.I.A. officers for actions the department itself had approved.

Another obstacle to such prosecutions would be the laws passed by Congress in 2005 and 2006 granting extensive legal protection for authorized conduct. But the videotape destruction may not have such protection; the episode recalls the adage of Washington scandals — that it’s not the crime, it’s the cover-up that leads to trouble.

The deaths of several prisoners who had been questioned by C.I.A. officers or contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan — but outside the detention program for high-level Qaeda prisoners — have been referred to the Justice Department. Only one C.I.A. contractor, David A. Passaro, has been prosecuted, receiving an eight-year sentence for beating an Afghan man who later died.

Still, investigations can impose a high price no matter how they end. “It’s not just the fear of going to jail,” Mr. Goldsmith said. “It’s the enormous expense of hiring lawyers. It’s seeing your reputation destroyed. It’s losing your career.”

Overseas, C.I.A. officers implicated in rendition cases have been sought on criminal charges in Italy and Germany, though none have been arrested. And since the international pursuit of the Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet, human rights advocates have often sought criminal charges against former officials on the principle of “universal jurisdiction” for certain grave offenses, including torture.

The Center for Constitutional Rights in New York, which unsuccessfully sought charges against former Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld during a recent visit to France, has pledged to pursue criminal torture charges against former Bush administration officials when they travel abroad.

“The only way to restore the moral authority of our country,” said Michael Ratner, the group’s president, “is accountability.”
352 2007-12-13 GENEVA — Less than two months after the controversial justice minister, Christoph Blocher, led the far-right Swiss People’s Party to a comfortable election victory, parliamentarians ejected him from the Federal Council, which runs the government by consensus.

In an election Wednesday by Parliament for the seven-member council, lawmakers voted for another member of the party, Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf, who is perceived as more moderate. Mr. Blocher had the backing of his party for the seat but received only 115 votes, versus 125 for Ms. Widmer-Schlumpf.

The election put the future of Switzerland’s system of consensus government in question because Mr. Blocher’s party is threatening to leave the council in protest and act as an opposition party, challenging government policy.

After the vote, the party president, Ueli Maurer, said on Swiss television, “Either we are in the government with Blocher, or we’re going into opposition.”

A withdrawal would end the “magic formula” that has divided cabinet seats among the four major parties since 1959.
353 2007-12-13 The Standard, of course, is the André Balazs hotel that serves as a bolthole for those seeking escape from the Collins Avenue mobs. At any given moment during Art Basel Miami Beach, one might spot Russell Simmons sloping through the Standard’s lobby on his way to class at Miami Yogashala or the Houston socialite Becca Cason amiably griping about the city’s lack of qualified service personnel or Tom Wolfe drifting by ethereally in two-tone spats and a suit the color of dandelion fluff.

Like a lot of the goods on view at Design Miami, one of 21 satellite fairs orbiting around Art Basel, Mr. Wolfe had the look of a rare artifact, one of those precious objects curio dealers sell as mint-in-box.

Vintage 1970s, he seemed like a fragile creature transported across time and intellectual galaxies and dropped down into a scrum of billionaires. Plenty of these people, termed the Super Rich to differentiate them from what marketing types call the Mass Affluent, manage to avoid hoi polloi by leasing private planes when they fly to Miami. For this edition of Art Basel, the fractional jet ownership company NetJets flew in 220 craft, a 10 percent increase over last year.

Yet despite that, there tends to be a certain bracing social friction in play at Art Basel Miami Beach. Maybe that’s even part of the fair’s allure. In other places the Sherman McCoys of the world can fortify themselves inside protective bubbles, but that feat is harder to pull off in a sprawling city where a substantial part of the population lives below the poverty line.

At least during Art Basel it is possible to run into elusive collectors like Steven A. Cohen at parties like the one held for the Webster, a new luxury-goods store opening this spring. The dinner was held in a club in a faded part of South Beach not far from a park where meth heads and homeless people congregate. The “saumon sauvage” and baked potatoes stuffed with osetra were provided by Caviar Kaspia, the Paris restaurant that will soon open a restaurant and caviar bar in South Beach, presumably for people tired of the takeout TV dinners from Big Pink.

“It’s a hobby,” Mr. Cohen said of his collection, which he began with the purchase of a Fauvist landscape. “You have to start somewhere,” he added, although, having bought de Kooning’s “Woman III” from David Geffen for $137.5 million and having spent $45.9 million at a recent auction for Francis Bacon’s “Second Version of Study for Bullfight No. 1,” there is no reason to imagine Mr. Cohen has any plans to stop.

And that is probably a good thing, since the effects of the wealth flowing into Miami during Art Basel — both the cash-on-the-barrelhead and the trickle-down kind — are palpable. It is not just florists and taxi drivers and caterers (and, like Mr. Klein’s actor/waiters, many of those are imported just for the fair) but the city itself that benefits from what amounts to a holiday break for billionaires.

Jane Jacobs may not be an obvious go-to name in this context, but it was the great urban theorist who once pointed out that old buildings need new uses, and one of the truly salutary effects of Art Basel is how vitalized the city is by the mobs of collectors and dealers and artists and, increasingly, fashion personnel that descend on the town.

Consider the large-format installation set up in the Design District to celebrate the opening of a new Y-3 store. Videos by Shigeko Kubota, John Baldessari, Lawrence Weiner and Joan Jonas beamed onto streets where a typical day’s excitement is the arrival of the lunch truck. Consider the German arts organization that swept into town and persuaded the artist Tim Walker to permit it to convert the old filling station he uses as a studio into a guerrilla exhibition space.

Consider the performance, at the opening of an installation by the artist designer Stefan Sagmeister at the Wolfsonian museum, of the composer George Antheil’s rarely heard “Ballet Mécanique.” Consider the 2,300-degree furnace called the Glory Hole that the Corning Museum of Glass and the Vitra Design Museum set up in the Design District for master glassmakers to engage in public collaborations with designers like Matali Crasset and Constantin and Laurene Boym.

“It’s a bunch of crazy designers from all over, and we’re going to make plates in all colors and then bust them up and then fuse them,” Steve Gibbs, a marketing manager for the Corning Museum, said on Friday night as a colleague shot flames at a multicolor plate being held by a technician wearing asbestos mitts. “It’s an experiment in fragility and liquidity,” Mr. Gibbs added, and he was not talking about the economy.

It was a surprising feature of the fair, in fact, that despite widespread jitters engendered by the subprime mortgage crisis and devalued dollar, dealers at Art Basel said the bulk of the sales were to Americans.

“I was expecting that Europeans would storm the fair and buy great art for cheap money,” said Rachel Lehmann, a director of the Lehmann Maupin gallery, 95 percent of whose sales were to Americans.

“Americans are less conservative about money,” she added. “They consume more and save less than Europeans do.”
354 2007-12-13 Now, thanks to more robust marketing, cosmetic acupuncture has caught the attention of more of the wrinkled public. Its holistic approach appeals in particular to women who want to slow signs of aging, but don’t want to undergo surgery or to inject chemicals.

Whether it is called facial rejuvenation, acupuncture face-lift or cosmetic acupuncture, the aim is to tackle wrinkles, muscle tension that may be causing unsightly lines, as well as systematic issues standing between you and glowing skin. Just as with traditional needling, putting needles on acupuncture points stimulates the body’s natural energies, called qi, but with added benefits.

Whether cosmetic acupuncture works has yet to be proved. Some randomized, controlled studies have shown that acupuncture is an effective adjunctive treatment for hypertension, chronic pain, headaches and back pain. But there is no peer-reviewed research demonstrating that acupuncture diminishes wrinkles.

Still, an industry devoted to needling for youthful skin has grown in recent years.

“There’s a rise in interest all over the country,” said Martha Lucas, a licensed acupuncturist who helped create the Mei Zen cosmetic acupuncture system in 2003. She teaches a dozen seminars annually to rooms of more than 30 budding facialists. “L.A. used to be the biggest market. But now we get people from the Midwest calling.”

Practitioners of this style of cosmetic acupuncture called Mei Zen (“beautiful person” in Chinese) offer their services in 16 states.

Mary Elizabeth Wakefield, a licensed acupuncturist who headed the 2005 Oscars event, has trained more than 2,000 teachers in 40 states in her technique: constitutional facial acupuncture. This year to date, she has trained almost 1,200 practitioners, up from 100 in 2001, she said. “For centuries, the ancient Chinese have promoted health and beauty,” Ms. Wakefield said, “but we’ve taken it to another level.”

Part of the reason is savvier marketing: Ms. Lucas’s monthly seminars include pointers on taking effective before-and-after pictures, and creating fruitful relationships with dermatologists. She even passes out T-shirts that proclaim “Cosmetic Acupuncture Works.”A half-dozen women interviewed for this article said they have seen puffiness decrease, under-eye bags disappear and lines diminish or soften.

Dr. Richard G. Glogau, a clinical professor of dermatology at University of California, San Francisco, said these changes were quite possible. “It’s obvious that people carry around a lot of muscle tension in their face, which gives them frowns and wrinkles,” he said. “My take on this is that they are producing relaxation in the muscles.”

But Dr. Glogau doesn’t believe that facial acupuncture can increase collagen, another claim of some practitioners.

During a recent session at the Claremont Resort and Spa in Berkeley, Calif., Andy Seplow, a licensed acupuncturist, told me as much as he used tweezers to guide tiny needles into a deep wrinkle between my eyebrows.

A needle penetrating the dermis would create damage, Dr. Glogau agreed, and the body would respond by producing collagen.

But does the doctor think the procedure could get rid of wrinkles? “My general understanding is that acupuncture really just involves a handful of punctures,” he said. “It’s unlikely that you will get significant collagen production from that.”

That said, holding tension in one’s jaws or brows can make a face appear strained. I am a teeth grinder with a tight jaw. Mr. Seplow inserted needles into my jaw area to relax it. He also assessed my systemic issues. Red blotches above my cheeks, he said, were a sign of sluggish digestion, so he put needles into my feet and legs for this.

Many cosmetic acupuncturists pride themselves on their holistic service. “The way I look at it, your health is reflected in your skin,” said Anita Lee, a licensed acupuncturist who has a private practice that specializes in women’s health in Manhattan. Because acupuncture facials improve circulation and unblock stuck energy, Ms. Lee said, “they help people heal from the inside out.”

One kind of cosmetic acupuncture incorporates microcurrents. Dr. Peter G. Hanson, a licensed acupuncturist, uses a machine which has probes that connect with facial needles to deliver bursts of microcurrent. He first used this method to stimulate the facial nerves in patients with conditions like Bell’s palsy, which involves paralysis of the face. But Dr. Hanson soon realized it could help his middle-age clients, too. The current, he said, tones and increases the volume of underlying muscles, which “makes the skin young again.”

Not likely, said Dr. Richard D’Amico, the president of the American Society of Plastic Surgeons.

“First of all, increasing tone does not increase muscle volume,” said Dr. D’Amico, an assistant clinical professor of plastic surgery at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine. And “anything that stimulates muscles will cause skin to fold even more and the wrinkles will get worse.”

The doctors clearly disagree. “If you don’t exercise the face muscles, you’ll get more wrinkles,” Dr. Hanson said.

For some, acupuncture facials serve as a back door into alternative medicine. Sheila Schmidt, 35, a telecom consultant from Denver, started facial acupuncture after noticing crow’s feet. They diminished, but she still goes for sessions. “I leave feeling more balanced and less anxious,” she said.

Ms. Becker, too, has come to think of her acupuncture facials as a kind of preventive medicine. “If I have any stress on my kidneys, liver and spleen, it shows up on my face,” she said. “Keeping my systems healthy is a win-win all around.”
355 2007-12-13 Hoping for a boost on offense and with ticket sales, Southern Mississippi hired Larry Fedora, the Oklahoma State offensive coordinator, as its new coach Wednesday. Fedora replaced Jeff Bower, who was forced to resign last month after 17 seasons an...
356 2007-12-13 CENTRAL BANK INITIATIVE Central banks in North America and Europe announced the most aggressive infusion of capital into the banking system since the terrorist attacks of September 2001. The coordinated  effort to grease the wheels of bank lending...
357 2007-12-14 Sam Roberts reflects on the ethics of end-of-the-year bonus money, past and present, given to staff members by wealthy politicians like Governor Rockefeller and Mayor Bloomberg....
358 2007-12-14 In a move to open its closed advertising system, Google will now let Website owners who sell advertising through Google’s AdSense system to review and reject advertisements they don’t find appropriate....
359 2007-12-14 The sharpest attacks in the Democratic campaign thus far - and the ones that have provoked the most emotion in partisan blogs and columns - involve, oddly enough, health-care mandates....
360 2007-12-14 A new hedge fund run by the Carlyle Group reportedly lost almost 10 percent of its value in October while rival funds on average rose by 3 percent. The Carlyle Multi-Strategy Master Fund, which was launched in May and is managed by Carlyle Blue Wa...
361 2007-12-14 From Friday's Times: Difficult guests are no longer limited to humans. The boundaries between humans and animals have been so eaten away by pet therapists, pet designer outfits and pet bar mitzvahs, that it has reached a point where devoted owners...
362 2007-12-14 Biogen Idec executives with pre-arranged stock trading programs accelerated their sales of company stock options and other restricted shares within days of an Oct. 12 announcement that the biotech firm would seek a buyer, according to TheStreet.co...
363 2007-12-14 ON Semiconductor agreed to buy chipmaker Amis Holdings for $915 million agreement, driven in part by depressed stock valuations and the specter of a down cycle in the chip industry. And analysts said the current environment in the industry could l...
364 2007-12-14 Temasek, the Singapore state investment agency, said Thursday that it raised its stake in Sorak Financial, the main shareholder in Bank Internasional Indonesia, from just over 50 percent to 75 percent. The move prompted speculation that Temasek mi...
365 2007-12-14 Boston Scientific, the maker of medical devices, said on Thursday that it had agreed to sell its fluid management and venous access businesses for $425 million to the private equity firm Avista Capital Partners. The combined businesses will operat...
366 2007-12-14 Inflation, which has remained tame even as oil prices soared in recent months, may be on the rise.

Consumers paid 0.8 percent more for a host of common retail goods in November, the biggest monthly increase since Hurricane Katrina, the government reported on Friday.

A less volatile measure of the Consumer Price Index, which excludes food and energy costs, ticked up 0.3 percent, suggesting that price increases are impacting the broader economy.

A pick-up in prices will complicate efforts by the Federal Reserve as it tries to stave off a substantial slowdown in economic growth. Central bankers may be more reluctant to lower interest rates out of concern that inflation will flare up.

“It’s certainly getting ugly out there,” wrote Bernard Bauhmohl, managing director of the Economic Outlook Group, in a research note this morning. “The rise in the core inflation will likely prevent the Fed from being generous with future interest rate cuts.”

Over the last 12 months, prices have risen 4.3 percent, the fastest pace since last summer, the Labor Department said. A report Thursday showed prices at the producer level rose in November at their fastest rate in nearly 35 years, a signal that cost pressures will only increase in the months ahead.
367 2007-12-14 OTTAWA — Former Prime Minister Brian Mulroney acknowledged to a parliamentary committee on Thursday that he had accepted large cash payments from a German-Canadian arms dealer and lobbyist beginning in 1993 and that his action showed “an error in judgment.” But he strenuously denied that the action was illegal.

A parliamentary committee had summoned Mr. Mulroney, who was prime minister from 1984 to 1993, but not when the payments began, to explain what he had done in exchange for the money, which was turned over to him, in $1,000 bills in hotel rooms, by Karlheinz Schreiber, an arms dealer and lobbyist. Mr. Schreiber is fighting extradition to Germany on bribery, fraud and tax evasion charges.

“My second biggest mistake in life, for which I have no one to blame but myself, is having accepted payments in cash from Karlheinz Schreiber,” Mr. Mulroney told the House of Commons ethics committee. His biggest, he said, “was ever agreeing to be introduced to Karlheinz Schreiber in the first place.”

The two men disagree on how much Mr. Mulroney was paid. Mr. Schreiber said he turned over a total of 300,000 Canadian dollars (then about $220,600) during meetings in Montreal and New York. Mr. Mulroney put the figure at 225,000 Canadian dollars. The payments began in 1993, when Mr. Mulroney was still a member of Parliament, but did not come to light until 2003, in a report by the Toronto newspaper The Globe and Mail.

Mr. Schreiber said Mr. Mulroney was supposed to help him lobby for Thyssen, the German company now called ThyssenKrupp, which hoped to make a deal with the government to build a factory in Canada for light armored vehicles. But, Mr. Schreiber said, Mr. Mulroney did nothing. The factory was never built.

On Thursday, Mr. Mulroney said he promoted the vehicles at meetings with officials and politicians in the United States, China, Russia and France and at the United Nations, but not in Canada, and that no law prohibited him from lobbying other countries on Mr. Schreiber’s behalf.
368 2007-12-14 “The city was psychically wounded; there were riots in New York in those years,” Peter Stanford, the first president of the South Street Seaport Museum and president emeritus of the National Maritime Historical Society, said Thursday. “Op Sail was a tremendous coming together, and under Frank’s orchestration it awakened Americans to their heritage.”

One by one, on July 4, 1976, towering ships glided below the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, then unfurled their sails. There were nearly 300 large ships from more than 50 countries in the 18-mile-long caravan up the Hudson, including 16 of the approximately 25 masted “tall ships” remaining in the world at the time.

Among them were the United States square-rigger Eagle; the British schooner Sir Winston Churchill, with an all-female crew; the Romanian bark Mircea; and the Russian four-masted Kruzenshtern, out of Murmansk.

Mr. Braynard and Mr. Slotnick had traveled to Europe, Asia and the Soviet Union to persuade governments and private owners to send their tall ships to New York. They had sailed on the Kruzenshtern for three days in their lobbying effort. “Russian cadets who were in Op Sail ’76 told us that this was their first real contact with the United States and their first understanding that Americans were not devils, not the enemy,” Mr. Stanford said.

An estimated five million people lined the New York and New Jersey shores that day, and more than 10,000 small private boats bearing spectators were kept out of the parade route by 150 Coast Guard vessels. Millions around the world watched the event all day on television.

In 1966, Mr. Stanford and his wife, Norma, met with Mr. Braynard and formed a committee to create the South Street Seaport Museum. Eventually, the museum would occupy a warren of 18th- and 19th-century buildings — and three piers — along seven blocks in Lower Manhattan.

“In one swoop, Frank took in the idea and began advocating it to shipping magnates, bankers, labor unions, the whole downtown community,” Mr. Stanford said. “He did more than anybody to get the word out about what South Street would be.”

For most of the 1970s, Mr. Braynard was program director of the museum, organizing its exhibits, festivals and concerts. From 1980 to 2000, he was also curator of the museum at the United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, to which he donated much of his maritime memorabilia.

Frank Osmond Braynard was born in Sea Cliff on Aug. 21, 1916, one of four children of Edwin and Carrie Upham Braynard. His father was a surgeon. His love of the sea was born when serious childhood asthma forced him to remain at home. Souvenirs from his world-traveler aunts and uncles enthralled him, his daughter said, and started his collection.

Besides his daughter, of Manhattan, Mr. Braynard is survived by his wife of 58 years, the former Doris Shelland; a sister, Nancy Wait of Cranford, N.J.; a son, David, of Sea Cliff; and two granddaughters.

Mr. Braynard graduated from Duke University with a degree in history in 1939, then earned a master’s degree in maritime history at Columbia. In the 1940s, he was a ship news reporter for The Herald Tribune. Later he was public relations director for the American Merchant Marine Institute and then for the Moran Tugboat and Transportation Company.

For Mr. Braynard, Op Sail 1976 represented a small contribution to easing tensions between the United States and the Soviet Union. As he prepared for it, he said, he was “terribly worried about the arms race.”

“I think Operation Sail is one little drop in the bucket on the other side,” he said. “We are all seamen on the ship Earth.”
369 2007-12-14 “This goes back to what we’ve always seen as a problem, that the opening with the West has never been contingent on Syria improving its human rights records,” Nadim Houry, who tracks Syria for Human Rights Watch, said. “It’s contingent on Syria cooperating on Lebanon, Iraq and the peace process.”

Dissidents and human rights advocates contend that the fact that intellectuals with no political organization, and with many leaders who are frail or in jail, still pose a threat is a sign that the government is weak.

Akram Bunni, a newspaper columnist and brother of an imprisoned human rights lawyer, was detained Tuesday; he still writes in Arab papers of the “moral bankruptcy” of Mr. Assad’s rule.

“They’re concerned about public opinion,” he said. “They don’t want anyone, internationally or internally, to see that there are public figures who might be an alternative to the regime.”

Dissidents say the crackdown is, paradoxically, a sign of strength and of weakness — the government has consolidated enough internal power to re-establish “red lines” limiting public criticism of its absolute leader.

Mr. Assad briefly allowed free expression and civil society activity when he assumed the presidency after the death of his father, Hafez al-Assad, in 2000. But he has gradually tightened control over the small political class, with arrests and new rules. In the past year, security services have arrested not only seasoned political advocates but also people who posted comments deemed subversive on Web sites.

Still, dissidents challenge the government, disobeying a ban on public meetings.

On Dec. 1, Riad Seif, a former businessman and member of Parliament and now an opposition spokesman, held a meeting with more than 160 advocates who had signed the Damascus declaration in 2005, calling on the state to lift emergency laws and allow free speech and political organization, Syrian rights advocates said.

In a challenge to the government, which prohibits independent political parties, the dissidents formed the National Council, electing a president and leadership committee. The group includes Communists, Islamists, former Baathists and Kurds. Younger dissidents schooled on the Internet have also spoken out, mostly on opposition Web sites and on Facebook groups. Some have ended up in prison, and others, like Ahed al-Hendi and Muhammad al-Abdallah, have fled to Beirut. “They are afraid because people online meet together, share ideas, criticize the regime,” said Mr. Hendi, 23, who was held for a month after posting critical reports. “They are strong on one hand, but on another they are so weak they are afraid of an Internet cafe.”

Despite contentions that the crackdown stems from insecurity, some Syrian analysts and diplomats say the Assad rule has staved off several crises and now feels strong enough to restore limits that once cowed critics.

“States around us are collapsing and there’s a high perception of danger, but Syria is deterring the dangers,” an analyst who spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of government harassment, said. “The opposition doesn’t pose a threat.”
370 2007-12-14 The Boston Scientific Corporation, the maker of medical devices, said on Thursday that it had agreed to sell its fluid management and venous access businesses for $425 million to the private equity firm Avista Capital Partners.

The combined businesses will operate as an independent company under a new name, Boston Scientific said. The fluid management unit, formerly known as the North American Medical Instruments Corporation, makes devices for the blood vessel procedures angiography and angioplasty.

The venous access business makes devices for giving drugs, nutrition or blood intravenously.
371 2007-12-14 GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. (AP) — Dow Chemical plans to sell a 50 percent interest in five of its global businesses to a Kuwaiti company for about $9.5 billion to form a joint petrochemicals venture, the company said Thursday.

Dow said the transaction with the Petrochemical Industries Company, a subsidiary of the state-owned Kuwait Petroleum Corporation, is expected to close in late 2008.

The joint venture will be based in the United States and employ more than 5,000 people worldwide, mostly current Dow employees, the company said.

It will make and market polyethylene, polypropylene and polycarbonate plastics, and ethylenamines and ethanolamines. Amines chemical compounds that are used in wood treatment, pharmaceutical processing and coatings.

The value of Dow’s five businesses that will form the venture is about $19 billion, it said.

“This joint venture, after it closes, Day 1 and beyond, will be the player in the petrochemical field,” said Andrew N. Liveris, Dow’s chief executive.

The deal will help maximize the value of Kuwait Petroleum’s resources while helping to diversify Kuwait’s economy, the chief executive, Saad al-Shuwaib, said.
372 2007-12-14 Mr. Battista, whose term expires Sunday, took strong issue with the Democrats’ criticism.

“Notwithstanding the special interest group rhetoric we may be hearing about the N.L.R.B., the agency is carrying out its statutory mission,” said Mr. Battista, a labor lawyer from Detroit who represented many corporations.

He said the labor board had significantly cut delays in handling unfair labor practice cases and had collected $110 million in back pay last year for workers who had been improperly retaliated against for union activity.

The White House has remained mum on whether it will reappoint Mr. Battista. A senior Democratic Senate staff member said yesterday that Democratic senators were likely to resist confirming him.

Republican leaders mocked the combined hearing by House and Senate members, saying it was improper to summon members of an adjudicatory panel before Congress to defend their decisions. The Republicans asserted that the hearing was reward to organized labor for helping Democrats in their campaigns.

Representative Howard P. McKeon of California, the ranking Republican on the House Education and Labor Committee, said, “Today’s hearing is a transparent attempt by Democratic leaders to appease the labor union special interests that helped put them in office by attacking decisions of the N.L.R.B. that they do not view as sufficiently pro-union.”

Labor leaders are pressing the Democratic presidential candidates and Congressional Democrats to back legislation that would make it far easier for workers to unionize.

In the decision that came under fiercest attack yesterday, the labor board ruled 3 to 2 in September that when a company agrees to grant union recognition after a majority of workers sign cards or a petition saying they want one, an election must be held — in effect vacating the union recognition — if 30 percent of the workers sign another petition within 45 days saying they want a vote to get rid of the union.

Ms. Liebman and the Democratic legislators said that the decision showed an anti-union tilt and that it gave 30 percent of the workers the power to overrule majority sentiment. Mr. Battista defended the ruling, saying it merely gave workers the chance to vote in a secret ballot election on whether they wanted to keep the union.

Several Democrats accused the board’s majority of hypocrisy because on the same day it decided this case it issued another ruling that allowed a company to cut off recognition of its union after a majority of workers submitted a petition seeking a vote to get rid of it. The Democrats asked why the labor board did not insist on a secret ballot election under such circumstances.

The union movement’s discontent with the labor board has grown so intense that several hundred union sympathizers demonstrated in front of the board’s Washington headquarters last month, chanting that it should be “shut down for renovations.”

Labor leaders say they would be happy if the board did nothing until a Democrat was in the White House. In addition to the expiration of Mr. Battista’s term Sunday, the appointments of two other members end later this month when the Congressional session ends.

An aide to the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, said the senator was considering holding pro forma sessions of the Senate to prevent President Bush from renaming Mr. Battista as a recess appointment.

At Thursday’s hearing, a hotel housekeeper, Feliza Ryland, testified about her fight to win back pay after the board ruled in 2001 that she and 43 other workers had been illegally fired in 1996 in a labor dispute with Grosvenor Resorts in Orlando, Fla.

“It has now been more than 11 years since I was unlawfully fired,” Ms. Ryland said, “and I am still waiting to see the back pay, still waiting to see justice.”

In a decision in September, the board sharply reduced the workers’ back pay, saying they forfeited the right to full back pay because they picketed for several weeks in an effort to get their jobs back instead of looking for new jobs. The board’s majority wrote that giving full back pay would “reward idleness.”
373 2007-12-14 I share Ayaan Hirsi Ali’s outrage over various injustices inflicted in the name of Islam (“Islam’s Silent Moderates,” Op-Ed, Dec. 7).

But there is a danger in her suggestion that moderate Muslims uniformly fail to condemn Islamic extremism.

Muslims are not a monolithic group. American Muslims, though in the past often wary and even defensive about criticizing fellow adherents of Islam, have increasingly found their voice in denouncing terrorism and the sort of barbarity Ms. Ali so rightly reviles in the case of the young Saudi woman who was punished after being gang raped.

As a quick search of news clippings will show, American Muslim organizations and numerous Muslim citizens of the United States have spoken out against depraved actions wrapped in the mantle of their ancient religion.

Anyone who has spent time with Muslim families and congregations in this country, as I have, knows that the vast majority are animated by mainstream views and aspirations.
374 2007-12-14 Re “Humans, Flying Like Squirrels, Hoping to Land With No Chute” (front page, Dec. 10):

Figure skaters are also trying to fly. After attaining speeds of more than 30 miles an hour, we spring into the air and do four revolutions before landing on one skate, one blade that is only one-eighth an inch wide.

Our skate boots are like high-heel shoes; the heel is over two inches high.

Now it’s time for us to learn more about wing suits.
375 2007-12-14 MOSCOW — Russia and Iran have resolved a dispute over payments for Iran’s Bushehr nuclear power plant, the Russian contractor on the project said Thursday, adding that a schedule would soon be set for completing the long-delayed job.

The scheduled completion date is important because the contractor has said it will ship uranium fuel rods to Iran no sooner than six months before the date is set.

Work slowed on the plant, on the southern coast of Iran, earlier this year after Russia said Iran was slow in making its monthly payments of $25 million. But Western diplomats said the real reason was a Russian policy decision to support Western pressure on Iran to be more forthright about what Washington said was its covert nuclear program, which could theoretically also threaten Russia.

The announcement by Sergei Shmatko, the director of Atomstroyexport, the state-controlled company responsible for the Bushehr plant, shed no light on when or how the financing dispute was resolved. It was also unclear Thursday whether the recent release of a United States intelligence estimate suggesting Iran had halted its nuclear weapons program in 2003 had any bearing on the decision. The Russian position had always been that evidence was thin that Iran was seeking a nuclear weapon.

Mr. Shmatko said the Russians would clarify the schedule for completing the station by the end of this month. A spokeswoman for Atomstroyexport, Irina Esipova, said the clarification would not necessarily include a fixed date of completion, an uncertainty that she attributed to the complexity of startup procedures at a nuclear power plant.

Atomstroyexport also said Iran had failed to ensure delivery of parts from third-country contractors. Ms. Esipova said Atomstroyexport and Iran had reached a “single understanding of how to resolve these problems” but declined to elaborate.
376 2007-12-14 “In a way, ‘Atonement’ is a movie about the death of youth,” Ms. Knightley said in a telephone interview. “What we had was a wonderful mix of that youth and more established actors, and I think it’s exciting that a young director was able to make such a timeless film. You get a clear feeling that there is a generation coming up that will do wonderful things.”

That generational pivot could be found in the acting categories. Young actresses like Ms. Knightley, 22; Ellen Page, 20, the star of “Juno”; and Nikki Blonsky, 19, of “Hairspray,” were recognized, helping to brighten a year that has been darkened by the continuing writers’ strike, a poor fall at the box office and the decidedly dour subject matter of many of the year’s prize contenders. Last year it was all about mature talents at the height of their power, with award winners including Meryl Streep for “The Devil Wears Prada” and Helen Mirren for “The Queen.”

James Schamus, chief executive of Focus Features, the studio behind “Atonement,” said that it made sense that young people were playing such a leading role in telling today’s stories. “If you are old enough to pick up a gun and go to Iraq and kill someone, you should have the resources to express yourself in the grandest possible way,” he said.

Jason Reitman, the 30-year-old director of “Juno,” added that the youth brigade was something of an old story. “I feel like I am just following in the footsteps of Quentin Tarantino, Robert Rodriguez, Kevin Smith, Wes Anderson, the list goes on,” he said.

The Golden Globes will be presented on Jan. 13 at a ceremony to be broadcast by NBC. It remained unclear how the show would be affected by the writers’ strike, now in its sixth week. Dick Clark Productions, which produces the show, has asked the Writers Guild of America West for a waiver that would let guild writers prepare remarks for the hosts and the stars who present the awards.

If the guild grants no waiver and chooses instead to picket the show, some stars and filmmakers may be reluctant to attend. The Screen Actors Guild, which has openly supported the striking writers, received a waiver for its annual awards show, but the writers have yet to make clear their stance toward the Golden Globes and the Oscars.

Waiver or no, there will be some notable absences among Globe aspirants this year. Jack Nicholson, a perennial Globe favorite, did not get a nod for “The Bucket List,” and Nicole Kidman, who has had something of a reserved table at the event for the past six years, was not cited for her role as a chilly evildoer in “The Golden Compass.” And “Into the Wild,” a film that has shown up on a number of critics’ lists this year, received no attention from the press association.

By themselves, the Globe nominations are not deeply meaningful. Few obituaries or career encomiums include references to the number of Globes an actor or director racked up, but they have other, more palpable benefits.

A Globe nomination is a way to enter the furiously buzzing conversation among publicists, entertainment shows, bloggers and movie academy voters. And though the foreign press association has a history of voting idiosyncrasy that is not necessarily predictive of the Oscars, which are to be distributed by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences on Feb. 24, the best-picture Oscar winner ended up mirroring the association’s choice for best drama or best comedy/ musical in 14 out of the last 20 years.

Among its television nominations, the press association recognized “Big Love,” “Damages,” “Grey’s Anatomy,” “House,” “Mad Men” and “The Tudors” as contenders for best dramatic series. Nominees for best musical or comic series were “30 Rock,” “Californication,” “Entourage,” “Extras” and “Pushing Daisies.”
377 2007-12-14 After the takeover, Israel sealed its border crossings with Gaza, on the grounds that the Fatah forces had fled and were no longer providing security on the other side. Israel, like the United States and the European Union, lists Hamas as a terrorist group and will not deal with it.

Israel also decided to press Hamas by admitting to Gaza only the minimum amount of goods required to avert a hunger or health crisis among its 1.5 million people, and prohibiting most exports. Israel contends that its approach is working.

“Hamas’s popularity is suffering, because it cannot deliver,” Mark Regev, a spokesman for Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, said Thursday. A combination of military pressure, diplomatic isolation and economic leverage “is leading to an erosion of their strength,” Mr. Regev said.

The Palestinian Authority, based in Ramallah, in the West Bank, says the restrictions have led to a collapse of Gaza’s private sector, which provides more than half the jobs there. But it had largely maintained a public silence on the closure, and privately had supported it, leading Hamas to accuse it of collusion.

A Hamas leader in Gaza, Mahmoud Zahar, said this week that, “People realize now that the Ramallah government is responsible for the suffocation of Gaza.”

The authority’s new public stance may be intended in part to deflect internal criticism. But the authority also wants to re-establish a foothold in Gaza, by offering to take over the crossings.

“It is our responsibility as the legitimate authority of all the Palestinians,” said Mr. Fayyad, rejecting any suggestion that such a move would require prior coordination with Hamas.

Ala al-Araj, an economic adviser to Ismail Haniya, the Hamas chief in Gaza, said that Hamas had been “willing since July for the United Nations or a private company to take control of the crossings.” But “Israel and the Ramallah government don’t accept that,” he said Thursday.

He added that Hamas would “not reject any party that is acceptable to Israel,” as long as it was “transparent and credible” — a veiled reference to widespread charges of corruption when Fatah was in control.

Israel is unlikely to agree to an immediate policy reversal, but Mr. Regev did not rule out change later. “If a new reality emerged on the other side of the crossings,” he said, that could lead to a new reality on the Israeli side.

Israel has already responded to some of Mr. Fayyad’s requests to ease up on the Gaza population. Last week, Palestinian farmers began exporting their strawberry and flower crops via Israel to Europe, after an agreement between the Israeli Agriculture and Defense Ministries and Mr. Fayyad. They were the first exports from Gaza since June.

Also, in the past two weeks, Israel has allowed busloads of Palestinians to leave Gaza for Egypt, via Israel. They included students who study abroad and people who need medical treatment, Col. Nir Press, the leader of Israel’s Coordination and Liaison Administration at the Gaza crossings, said Monday. Many had been stuck in Gaza since June.

The recent escalation in violence continued Thursday. A rocket fired from Gaza hit a house in Sderot, an Israeli border town, wounding a woman inside. Soon after, three Palestinians were killed in an Israeli airstrike in Gaza, said medical officials there. One was identified as a member of Islamic Jihad.

Israeli Army officials said the strike was aimed at a cell that had fired rockets at Israel.
378 2007-12-14 HONG KONG — On a frontier where Vietnamese and Chinese soldiers exchanged bullets in a short but bloody war nearly three decades ago, construction workers from the two countries will soon join forces to build a highway that promises to bring new wealth to their once heavily guarded border regions.

Plans for a four-lane highway from Hanoi to Kunming cleared the last hurdle on Friday when the board of the Asian Development Bank gave the green light to a loan that will underwrite the Vietnamese side of the project.

By 2012, when the highway is supposed to be completed, a journey that now takes three days by truck could take just nine hours. Goods made in China’s Yunnan Province would have quick access to the Vietnamese seaport of Haiphong, and Vietnamese exporters should be able to reach untapped markets in China.

“Both countries are reaping the fruits of peace and cooperation,” said Ayumi Konishi, the Asian Development Bank’s country director in Vietnam. “In one generation, they have moved from tanks and troops to trade and tourism.”

In a meeting Friday in Manila, the bank’s board approved its biggest single-project loan — $1.1 billion — to finance the start of work next year on a 152-mile stretch of the highway from Hanoi to Lao Cai on the border, the bank said in a statement. The Vietnamese government is contributing $100 million to the low-interest loan.
379 2007-12-14 That kind of money can buy a lot. And the fact that it is controlled by governments, either directly or through state-owned companies, means that the current round of major international investments and takeovers may be significantly different from earlier ones, with more disturbing implications.

In the 1980s, when Japanese companies were buying up everything from movie studios to Rockefeller Center, it was easy to dismiss the nationalistic complaints that were heard.

There were jokes that the heroes of World War II movies would be the pilots who bombed Pearl Harbor. But, of course, the new bosses were just as eager to sell tickets as the old ones had been, and American heroes are still seen on the screen. Nor were Japanese owners of Rockefeller Center likely to refuse to rent office space to American companies. (In the end, it turned out the Japanese had overpaid, and they fled Rockefeller Center with losses.)

But government investments can be different.

“The logic of capitalism depends on shareholders having profit maximization as their primary objective,” Mr. Summers said in an interview. “Governments may have many interests.”

Those interests can include gaining access to technology, helping local suppliers or customers, gaining access to resources, assuring local employment or making all types of political points. Even if a government is interested only in making money through what it hopes will be wise investments — as seems to be the case in the UBS and Citigroup bailouts — a successor government may have differing priorities.

Worries about the trend have been felt most acutely in Europe, where Gazprom, the Russian energy company, has been seeking to buy companies. There is fear that Gazprom could use control of European gas distribution not to maximize its own profits but to serve Russia’s foreign policy interests. In the United States, Citgo, an oil refiner, is controlled by the Venezuelan national oil company and has been used to promote the foreign policy of that nation’s government.

These issues are arising because of the nature of the countries that have been running up huge trade surpluses with the rest of the world — though primarily with the United States. In many cases, the accumulation of assets reflects the surging price of commodities. That has been true for Middle Eastern countries and for Russia. Other countries, most importantly China, have accumulated large foreign currency reserves as they kept the dollar from rising too much against their currencies.

In either case, that leaves a lot of wealth in the hands of governments rather than individuals or companies.

Much of the surge in world growth over the past generation has come from countries moving away from nationalized businesses and selling them through privatization plans that were sometimes inequitable but that did lead to wealth creation. On average, capitalists are better at choosing investments than are government bureaucrats.

It would be strange if the next generation experiences a reversal of the trend, in which more and more productive assets fall under the control of governments — and governments that are not especially interested in the welfare of the citizens who live in the countries where the companies have operations.
380 2007-12-14 Although he began speaking in soft, grandfatherly tones as he talked of mistakes made and the game’s integrity, Selig quickly went into an almost prosecutorial mode.

“This report is a call to action,” he said, raising his right index finger. “And I will act.”

Selig was widely criticized for doing little to push for mandatory drug testing 10 years ago and was mildly chided for it by Mitchell on Thursday. He not only accepted the findings and recommendations of Mitchell’s report, but also said he wanted to go beyond them.

While Mitchell recommended against punishment for players linked to performance-enhancing drugs, Selig mentioned disciplinary actions and pledged swift action. When it came to Mitchell’s proposed changes, Selig announced that he would immediately enact every one that did not require approval from the players’ union. For example, Selig said, teams would no longer be given 24 hours’ notice of a drug test.

Selig vowed to fight to find an easier way to detect human growth hormone, calling for a summit of doctors and researchers to discuss the subject.

“So long as there might be potential cheaters in the game, we have to constantly update what we do to catch them,” he said. “And that’s exactly what I intend to do. We will not rest.”

Selig was, as usual, dressed conservatively, wearing a drab sport coat, white shirt and solid tie, but much of the rest of him seemed refashioned.

For more than a year, he said he was not worried about what the Mitchell report would reveal. He conceded Thursday that he wished he was not discussing the use of performance-enhancing drugs by dozens of players, although he did not seem overly distressed by it. He was busy looking forward, promising to strengthen baseball’s diligence and vigorously calling for the players’ union to cooperate with him.

It was as if the kindly old relative we all knew for decades stood up during Thanksgiving dinner and announced that he never did like turkey and was leading a revolt to cook a ham next year. Selig would not even refer to the day as disappointing.

“Do I believe it’s a setback?” he asked. “No. The sport will be better off.”

Selig stayed true to form in some ways. He did not fall on his sword, but he did not pick it up and renew the fight. His foremost skill as a baseball administrator has always been a kind of coy, homespun conciliation. Selig did not quarrel when asked if he believed baseball’s leaders might have been able to avert the wrongdoing described in Mitchell’s report had they been more focused on it, instead of on economic issues, as was alleged by Mitchell.

“People have different ideas about what happened a decade or two decades ago,” he said. “Hindsight is wonderful. But George Mitchell is right: it’s time to move on.”

And so, one of baseball’s most recognizable faces appeared again and survived Day 1 of a new and ugly chapter for the game. Whether Bud Selig has taken the first step toward redrafting his legacy may depend on how the baseball community responds to his bold call to action.

“Anybody who knows me well has to know that this is not something I wish had happened, but it has,” Selig said. “And I have to do something about it. I cannot say it any more plainly. I have to do something.”
381 2007-12-14 An excerpt from an article written by Brian McNamee, then a strength coach of the Yankees, in The New York Times on Oct. 1, 2000, in which he took issue with accusations of steroids use. In interviews with George J. Mitchell this year, McNamee said he injected Roger Clemens with steroids in the 1998, 2000 and 2001 seasons.

Today’s teams have athletic trainers, strength and conditioning coaches, massage therapists, chiropractors and nutritionists, along with massive budgets to spend on the latest equipment, educational seminars and nutritional products.

The players at every level have these resources available to them. Did Roger Maris or Babe Ruth have this when they played?

The workout rooms around the league are impressive, with most of them resembling an Olympic training facility. They are fully staffed and monitored by a professional strength and conditioning coach. Under supervision, players are supplementing their diets with vitamins, minerals and proteins. Some teams even take players’ blood to monitor their nutritional deficiencies.

The suggestion that steroids are the answer to the increased strength, recovery from injury and the improved performances of today’s players is just wrong. ... Yes, the players today are stronger, faster and smarter than their predecessors. But their superiority is not because of steroid use, but because of the advancement in sports-specific science and commitment of the organizations to strength, conditioning and nutrition. To suggest otherwise is irresponsible and disrespectful.
382 2007-12-14 SIGNS OF A REBOUND  Government reports showed surprising resilience in the economy. Retail sales rose 1.2 percent in November; wholesale prices surged, indicating strong demand; and unemployment claims fell by 7,000.       A BAILOUT BY CITIGROUP C...
383 2007-12-14 Brian Mulroney, the former prime minister, acknowledged to a parliamentary committee that he had accepted large cash payments from a German-Canadian arms dealer and lobbyist beginning shortly after he left office in 1993. Mr. Mulroney said that hi...
384 2007-12-15 The world has agreed to a two-year road trip ending in a 'Copenhagen Protocol' for avoiding dangerous climate change....
385 2007-12-15 The United States head of asset management at Credit Suisse, Keith Schappert, left the company, the bank said. “He has resigned,” a spokeswoman, Suzanne Fleming, said. She declined to comment on whether a successor was being considered.

Mr. Schappert, 56, was hired in November 2006 to run Credit Suisse’s $160 billion American investment-management unit. The business accounts for about a quarter of the $614 billion in global assets managed by the bank.
386 2007-12-15 The Boeing Company said AWAS, an airplane leasing company in Ireland, has ordered 31 of its single-aisle 737-800 jets. While specific deal terms were not disclosed, Boeing said the order was worth $2.3 billion at list prices, although airlines typically negotiate discounts. AWAS owns and manages 315 airplanes.
387 2007-12-15 The dispute between Dr. Kessler and the university apparently concerned university accounting for funds. Dr. Kessler said that before he accepted the position as dean in 2003, he requested information on the medical school’s financial condition. The documents he received showed that the institution expected generally to take in more, from grants and other sources, than it spent.

But Dr. Kessler said that he requested another such report once he was dean. He found that the two reports showed different numbers for years that had already passed.

“No accounting system should give you different numbers for the same closed fiscal years,” Dr. Kessler said. He said he took his concerns to the university. He said he also commissioned an outside report that found “the financial practices of the school did not meet operating standards that would be expected at a large organization or business and that there was insufficient oversight.”

The report asserted that the portrayal of the medical school’s financial condition was altered to look stronger — it does not state by whom or why — in late 2002, during the period the institution was seeking a new dean.

Dr. Kessler said he asked the university to have a complete audit undertaken, but that the request was rebuffed. Instead, he said, in June Dr. Bishop, the chancellor, asked him to resign. Dr. Kessler did not do so.

On Thursday, Dr. Kessler said, he was told to clean out his office before the weekend.

A separate statement from the university late on Friday stated that the chancellor had asked Dr. Kessler for his resignation by the end of the year, but that “unfortunately, Dr. Kessler did not relinquish his position, forcing the chancellor to formally dismiss him.”

The university auditor investigated Dr. Kessler’s concerns about improper accounting, according to the statement, and concluded in June 2007 that “the whistleblower allegations were not sustained.”

Two additional reviews by the university, one by an outside accounting firm, also found “no evidence of financial irregularities and, in addition, concluded that the School of Medicine is in very strong financial condition,” according to the statement.

The warring e-mail messages from Dr. Kessler and Dr. Bishop on Friday seemed to take the faculty by surprise. For his part, Dr. Kessler said, “I continue to love the place, I continue to want to work on the problems, but to me this was a question of principle, this was a question of financial controls, it was a question of integrity.”
388 2007-12-15 And as it turns out, there is a ferocious network battle for backseat viewers. Of the four companies that have contracts with the city, there are only two major providers who together control most of the taxi programming, and they offer starkly opposite philosophies. VeriFone Transportation Systems, which has an alliance with WABC-TV, calls its system Taxi-TV, and favors aggressively interactive content: Alongside ads and news briefs, its touch-screen monitors offer gallery listings, restaurant reviews and ads disguised as quizzes. (“What is Donald Trump’s rank in the Forbes 400?” asks Forbes magazine.) The company also plans to add a Reuters business digest. Its monitor even comes with a dimmer to soften the screen’s brightness after dark.

Creative Mobile Technology Inc., which is in league with Clear Channel and NBC Universal, and which offers NY 10, the Taxi Entertainment Network, believes that less is more: Its screens are designed to encourage passenger passivity; the main choice is whether to turn the crawl under the screen from sports to entertainment news.

Taxi-TV, via WABC and VeriFone, offers more consumer information, but is also more demanding, and sometimes more enervating. The screen does not always instantly respond to touch (“Please be patient while data is loading”), and trying to scroll through the Zagat Guide’s restaurant listings while the cab maneuvers potholes and stop-and-go traffic is a little like trying to thread a needle on horseback.

Tipping procedures are also different. When customers pay the fare by credit card, the monitor offers a choice of automatically calculated tips. VeriFone begins at 20 percent all the way up to 30 percent, whereas Creative Mobile Technology starts at a more modest 15 percent. (Both systems allow customers to bypass those buttons and enter their own tips.)

News briefs, also known as taxicasts, are updated three times a day, but less time-sensitive features are changed once a week, so viewers may watch a promo for an ABC movie like “For One More Day,” based on the Mitch Albom best seller, several days after it has been broadcast and many times before the meter shuts off.

On the other hand, TaxiTV has a more diverse and intriguing cast of advertisers than its rival. One of the more arresting 30-second spots is an enigmatic ad for a pro-Kremlin Web site, russiatoday.ru, and magazine, Russia Today; it offers a surprising spin on the proverbial Butterfly Effect: a soccer ball kicked through a scientist’s window eventually results in a handsome New Russian couple waiting impatiently on a snow-covered tarmac for a private jet that fails to arrive. The tag line, “Dare to Be Different,” doesn’t explain much, but it does convey a Putinesque disdain for Western efficiency.

The programming provided by Clear Channel and NBC is more prosaic, and tightly bound to corporate sponsorship, including its own. NBC provides promotional clips from “The Tonight Show With Jay Leno” and “Saturday Night Live” and many, many ads for “The NBC Nightly News With Brian Williams” and the next season of “The Apprentice.”

NBC also has broadcast rights to the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing, which it promotes with snippets from the 2004 games. When traffic is clogged and honking loud, and the driver is irate and yelling obscenities, there is something soothing about the sight of Olympic swimmers slicing through water at three times the speed of a Midtown cab.

At the moment, the cab tube has novelty, but that can wear off pretty quickly after one too many loops of Chase credit card ads or movie reviews from NBC’s “Reel Talk.” But the technology allows for more and better programming, and viewers do have a voice in what they watch while traveling. All taxi television sets are equipped with an off button, and that is the captive cab rider’s last resort.
389 2007-12-15 The ethanol industry is experiencing a historic boom, with record investment in new plants, more ethanol-burning cars on the road and rising public awareness. With Congress on the verge of passing an energy bill that will drastically ratchet up ethanol production, automakers are promising to build millions more ethanol-capable vehicles, universities are developing better methods to produce the fuel and big retailers like Wal-Mart are studying ways to bring it to consumers.

Most ethanol produced in the country is blended with gasoline in a mixture called E10, containing up to 10 percent ethanol. It can be burned in any engine and is generally sold in areas with air-quality problems because the ethanol helps to reduce certain pollutants.

The mixture called E85, a gasoline blend consisting of 70 to 85 percent ethanol depending on the season, could contribute more to reducing the nation’s dependence on oil if it were widely used. But it is available almost exclusively in the Midwest, far from the coastal regions where most Americans live and most cars are sold.

The number of stations selling E85 has jumped to 1,413, from 285 three years ago. But that is still fewer than 1 percent of the gas stations in the country. And the number of cars that can burn E85, about six million and rising, is still only 2.4 percent of the nation’s automobile fleet.

“It’s a classic chicken-and-the-egg problem,” said Brian Turner, analyst at the National Commission on Energy Policy in Washington. “There’s no demand because for most people the fuel just isn’t available. And it’s not available because the demand isn’t there.”

Even when people can find E85, they are often fooled by the price. It is almost always cheaper per gallon than gasoline. But because E85 contains less energy than gasoline, fuel efficiency drops 10 to 30 percent, depending on the vehicle.

Recently, Arnold Foss, a retired farmer, drove to a Kroger gas station in Perrysburg, Ohio, to fill the tank of his 2003 GMC Yukon, which can burn E85 or gasoline. E85 at the station cost $2.73 per gallon, while regular unleaded was $3.13.

“I’m saving 40 cents a gallon with E85, and I don’t notice any difference in gas mileage,” Mr. Foss said.

“He’s wrong,” said David Champion, director of automobile testing for Consumers Union, the nonprofit organization that publishes Consumer Reports magazine. In its October 2006 test of the Chevrolet Tahoe, the sister truck to the GMC Yukon, Consumer Reports found that the giant sport utility vehicle’s average mileage dropped 27 percent, to 10 miles a gallon, when switched from gasoline to E85. Mr. Foss was actually losing more than 40 cents for every gallon of E85 he pumped.

“I meet a lot of people who buy E85 just because it’s cheaper,” Mr. Timmermeister said. “The fact that they’re still losing money just sails right over their heads.”

A few small fuel retailers are building a business model that helps consumers at least break even. The MFA Oil Company, a farmers cooperative that sells E85 at 45 locations in Missouri, has lowered prices so it will always cost 20 percent less than gasoline, largely compensating for the lost efficiency.

Sales are up, but even the company’s busiest ethanol pump does only half the volume a gasoline pump would, and MFA admits it could probably make more money by sticking to gasoline. “We’re willing to take the risk to develop this market because our farmer members believe we’re doing the right thing,” said Tom May, the marketing director.

Bigger retailers are also testing the ethanol market, one reason the number of ethanol pumps nationwide has jumped. The Kroger supermarket chain sells ethanol at 42 stations and plans to install more pumps at its gas stations in Ohio and Texas, said Meghan Glynn, a spokeswoman.

Perhaps the biggest unknown for ethanol fuel right now is Wal-Mart. The retail behemoth is studying whether to install ethanol pumps at its stores, said Dave Tovar, a spokesman.

“Wal-Mart can come in as the big gorilla and blow the doors off the ethanol fuel market,” said Curt Magleby, director of government affairs at the Ford Motor Company.

The six million cars and light trucks able to burn E85 are known as flex-fuel vehicles; they adjust automatically to run on any mix of ethanol and gasoline. But most people who drive them do not know it because, until recently, it was rare for automobile dealers to mention the feature in their sales pitches.

The six million cars exist because flex-fuel vehicles cost only $100 more to build, and they provide special credits for Detroit that allow automakers to sell more gas-guzzling sport utility vehicles than would otherwise be allowed under federal mileage standards, said Therese Langer of the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy.

Lately, automakers have begun to emphasize the feature, and some flex-fuel cars come with yellow gas caps as a clue. Even so, most new cars — and hence most new ethanol-burning cars — are sold on the coasts, where high transport costs for ethanol make it difficult to sell E85, Mr. Champion said.

“Unlike with oil, there’s no pipeline for ethanol,” said Nathanael Greene, policy analyst at the Natural Resources Defense Council. “We can’t get the fuel to market at a reasonable price. That is the bottleneck right now.”

The ethanol market is glutted at the moment, but a big national switch to E85 would require far more of the fuel. By most estimates, the country can produce only about 15 billion gallons from corn without severe disruption of the food-production system. That much ethanol would displace less then 7 percent of the nation’s gasoline.

That means new technology is needed to create ethanol from sources like wood chips and straw, known as biomass. Turning those into ethanol could eventually displace more than a third of the nation’s gasoline, the Oak Ridge National Laboratory said in a report. The energy bill under consideration in Congress would require expanded ethanol production from both corn and biomass. Construction is beginning on small factories that will use biomass, but the economics have yet to be proved.

“When you’re talking about ethanol fuel, uncertainty is the name of the game,” said George Naylor, a corn farmer in central Iowa and president of the National Family Farm Coalition. “The whole thing is up in the air right now.”
390 2007-12-15 If federal prosecutors had their way, the man who gave them most of the gruesome details about Michael Vick’s dogfighting enterprise would not go to prison for killing dogs and helping create Bad Newz Kennels.

United States District Judge Henry E. Hudson disagreed Friday, saying it would not be right to let Tony Taylor go free after sentencing Vick to 23 months in prison and two other co-defendants to 18 and 21 months.

“You were as much an abuser of animals as any other defendant in this case,” Hudson told Taylor before sentencing him to two months in prison.

The prosecutor Michael Gill had recommended that Taylor serve only probation.

Hudson agreed Taylor deserved a break. However, he said the “gross disparity” suggested by Gill was inappropriate for a person who helped develop and run the dogfighting operation and admitted killing two dogs, one by gunshot and one by electrocution.

DOLPHINS COULD BE SOLD The Miami Dolphins owner Wayne Huizenga is discussing selling his struggling franchise to two real estate developers, The Miami Herald reported. Jorge Perez of Miami confirmed that he and his business partner Stephen Ross, a New York builder, were talking with Huizenga about a potential deal.
391 2007-12-15 The accident took place shortly before 11 a.m. along the West Street side of the building.

The Department of Buildings said the crane, on the southeast corner of the tower, was lifting a load of metal studs weighing about 14,000 pounds from a truck when the sling failed. The heavy-duty nylon sling was designed to lift 19,000 pounds, the department said in a statement.

Kate Lindquist, a department spokeswoman, said engineers had determined that the load was about three-quarters of the way up the building, which has been finished to the 30th floor.

Two trailers were hit; about a quarter of the load hit the trailer where Mr. Woo was sitting, which was being used as an office, an official said.

A statement from the Tishman Construction Corporation, the construction manager at the site, said the metal studs, which are used as supports in walls, were 25 to 30 feet long and were to be used for a shaft wall on the 13th floor.

Pedestrians on a walkway above West Street peered down into the site, watching in silence as workers investigated. The neck of the crane was visible at the tower’s top finished floor, its straps flapping in the wind.

“It sounded like a big explosion,” said Vincent Verderame, 40, a construction worker at the site. He said he helped extricate Mr. Woo, who was still sitting in a chair that had tipped over when rescuers found him.

“I ran over and started pulling the guy out,” he said. “On a job like this, everybody comes running.”

The trailer, he said, “was ripped open pretty good.”

“He was definitely in shock,” Mr. Verderame added. “He was having a hard time breathing. He couldn’t move anything from the waist down.”

Mr. Woo is an associate architect on the project employed by Adamson Associates Architects of Ontario. Representatives there did not return phone calls for comment.

“He was quiet and kept to himself,” said Salwa Khairule, who lives on the same floor as Mr. Woo at 100 West 89th Street. “I think he mostly kept to himself and had his own social life outside the building.”

A doorman said Mr. Woo had lived there with his wife for the past few months.

The accident was the first public setback for a project that since groundbreaking, has seemed to progress inexorably and almost without a word of publicity while projects all around it were been mired in crisis.

Rather than be lured by government officials into the Freedom Tower planned for the World Trade Center site, Goldman in 2003 chose the last commercial parcel available in Battery Park City, cater-corner across West Street from ground zero, for its new headquarters. Its current headquarters are at 85 Broad Street.

In April 2005, Henry M. Paulson Jr., then the chairman and chief executive of Goldman, told city and state officials that the company was suspending the project because of a plan, endorsed by Gov. George E. Pataki, to build a bypass tunnel under West Street, in front of the Goldman site.

The announcement was a political setback for Mr. Pataki, who had staked his legacy on the rebuilding of downtown.

Because Goldman’s stance cast further doubt on prospects for successful commercial development around the World Trade Center site, officials quickly abandoned the tunnel plan and cobbled together financial incentives worth hundreds of millions of dollars more than the original deal offered to Goldman. Critics objected that generous government subsidies were going to a firm that measured its profits in the billions.

But John P. Cahill, who was then Governor Pataki’s chief of staff, said in August 2005 that Goldman’s decision to build a 43-story headquarters had reinforced Lower Manhattan’s position as the financial capital of the world. Goldman got what it wanted.

Ground was broken three months later, and steel had been rising steadily until Friday.

The Department of Buildings said in a statement that it was citing Tishman for four violations: unsafe hoisting conditions; failure to safeguard the public and property during construction operations; failure to maintain vertical netting along the sides of the building; and failure to provide toe boards, which prevent material from being pushed off the side of a building or into a shaftway.

The statement from Tishman said the first two violations were related to the accident: “It appears, but is not conclusive, that there may have been a material failure that caused the accident but could not have been foreseen,” it said. The toe boards and netting violations were unrelated and were being corrected, the company said.

Richard M. Kielar, a spokesman for Tishman, said the project’s safety record has been excellent.

“Since construction began, accidents have been minimal and there have been no fatalities,” he said in the statement. “The ongoing safety of the community and of personnel on this site and on all Tishman sites is of paramount importance to us, and we take our role in these matters very seriously.” The crane is not damaged or unstable, he said.

A notice of violation was issued to the crane operator, DCM Erectors Inc., for unsafe hoisting operations, the Buildings Department said. An office manager for DCM, Nancy Wickham, said she could not comment on the violation because the company had not yet been notified.

Eight notices of violation from the city’s Environmental Control Board have been issued at the site since August 2006. The Tishman statement said all previous violations were corrected as soon as they were discovered.
392 2007-12-15 TURIN, Italy (AP) — The world bronze medalist Kim Yuna of South Korea led the women’s field in the Grand Prix Final figure skating competition, and Caroline Zhang, a 14-year-old from the United States, was a surprise second Friday.

Kim’s hands down on her triple flip cost her the combination jump, but other mistakes in the women’s competition were more costly: the world silver medalist Mao Asada of Japan skipped a jump and finished in last place, just behind the United States champion Kimmie Meissner, who was fifth, after she underrotated her triple-triple combination.

Kim, the defending champion, had a season-best 64.62 — but said she had skated her worst.

Carolina Kostner of Italy singled an axel but still finished in third place on the strength of her presentation — adapting her lean classical figure to an instrumental version of the Doors’ song “Riders on the Storm.”

Zhang, skating to Spanish guitar music, was the cleanest skater among the women, but her jumps — including a triple-triple combination — were less powerful and earned lower component marks. She was also penalized for taking off on the wrong edge on her triple lutz.

But Zhang, the junior world champion, did score a season-best 61.82 and surprised herself with her placement on her first international senior’s appearance. “Really surprised,” said Zhang, who will not qualify for International Skating Union championships until after her birthday in May. Meissner said that despite the marks, she felt she had delivered a strong program. “I’m actually happy with it,” she said. “You can’t control the scores.”

Meissner has raised the difficulty for Saturday’s long program, making late-season changes to face a tough field.
393 2007-12-15 Senegal has barred the reggae star Tiken Jah Fakoly from entering the country after he criticized President Abdoulaye Wade, Agence France-Presse reported. The singer, who is from the Ivory Coast, criticized Mr. Wade during a news conference and afterward at a concert on Wednesday, urging the president to leave office for the good of his country. Senegal’s interior ministry said Thursday evening that Mr. Fakoly was “persona non grata in Senegal” for his “insolent and discourteous” remarks and would be barred from entering the country. The singer had been in Senegal for the International Hip-Hop Awards in Dakar. The independent Senegalese newspaper Sud Quotidien said he was a “victim of state xenophobia.” Last month the Senegalese government faced protests that were seen as the country’s most violent since the late 1980s.
394 2007-12-15 WASHINGTON (Bloomberg News) — The Senate passed legislation on Friday that would make more Federal Housing Administration loans available to subprime borrowers facing foreclosure.

The bill, passed 93 to 1, is the first of a package of efforts that the government is considering to address the housing slump. On Dec. 6, President Bush announced that federal regulators and private lenders had agreed to a voluntary freeze on rates on some subprime mortgages.

The Senate plan would lower the down payment required of low- and middle-income home buyers taking out federally insured loans, and would allow larger loans. It would also make it easier for homeowners with adjustable-rate loans due to reset to get F.H.A.-backed loans.

The Senate F.H.A. measure must be reconciled with a similar House bill, passed in September, which had higher loan limits and more flexible down payment requirements.

“This legislation is the perfect example of the kind of help Americans are looking for,” Senator Charles E. Schumer, a New York Democrat who was a sponsor of the bill, said on the Senate floor. “It is definitely and desperately needed.”
395 2007-12-15 That was a daring claim, considering that prying information out of the Giuliani City Hall required teams of lawyers with the persistence of mules. To cite three of the most prominent examples, he tried to block the release of different batches of public records to the city’s Independent Budget Office, to the city’s public advocate, and to the state comptroller. He was sued on each occasion. He lost every time. He appealed each decision. He lost every appeal.

“So,” Mr. Giuliani said during the debate, looking toward his presidency, “I would be extremely open.”

Just not yet.

Since leaving public office at the end of 2001, Mr. Giuliani has made many millions of dollars, but will not say exactly how, or from whom. He has filed the disclosures required of presidential candidates, and these show he made money through speaking engagements, a partnership in a law firm, and shares in 12 consulting and financial businesses. During an interview on “Meet the Press” earlier this week, he said he could not reveal more.

“I couldn’t put out a list of all my clients,” Mr. Giuliani said. “There are confidentiality agreements that surround the relationship that businesses have with law firms, in particular. In some cases, with security firms, so I can’t do that.”

The question was put to a spokeswoman for his campaign on Friday: Has Mr. Giuliani asked his clients to release him from the confidentiality agreements?

The campaign did not answer.

The Giuliani companies have provided services for the Saudi national oil company, for the emirate of Qatar and for a data-mining business that wanted a federal contract, according to recent reports in Time magazine, The Wall Street Journal and The Village Voice.

Qatar, a small petroleum state, is a delicate place for an American presidential candidate to do business. Its emir has built up good relations with the United States and has played host to American military forces, but elements within his government also gave shelter to the man who planned the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed. Those sympathizers probably tipped off Mr. Mohammed when Americans were hoping to seize him in 1996, according to the 9/11 Commission report.

AMONG those who invited Mr. Mohammed to Qatar, the commission said, was Sheikh Abdullah bin Khalid al-Thani, now the minister of the interior.

When asked by Tim Russert of “Meet the Press” about his company’s relationship with the interior minister, Mr. Giuliani responded: “The relationship is with a, a ministry that does training.” A ministry, Mr. Russert pressed, headed by Mr. Thani?

“The relationship is not like that,” he continued. “We have never had any involvement with him at all at any time.” He added, “Here’s the purpose of it, generally speaking: It’s to secure that country against attack by Islamic terrorists.”

At the time he took office as mayor of New York in 1994, Mr. Giuliani had spent most of his adult life in public service, and was a man of moderate means. His only entanglements were with people like Russell Harding, a college dropout with no known qualifications for running a housing agency, the job he was given. Mr. Harding’s father, the head of the New York Liberal Party, had provided Mr. Giuliani with a valuable endorsement in 1993.

Now Mr. Giuliani is a rich man. And keeping secrets about the friends, allies and business associates who might trail him into the White House could prove far riskier than someone running amok with a city credit card.
396 2007-12-15 STRIKE ENDS IN RUSSIA  The Ford Motor Company and a union representing part of its Russian employees agreed  to end a strike that was corroding Ford's profit in one of Europe's hottest markets. Already, two-thirds of Ford's assembly line employees...
397 2007-12-16 Mitt Romney mounted the costliest early advertising push in a presidential campaign, though some Democrats are catching up....
398 2007-12-16 Democratic Senator Joe Lieberman will come out for his old friend, Republican Senator John McCain, on Monday. The question is whether Joe such support in New England, one of the last redoubts of Republican moderates, will help or hurt Mr. McCain i...
399 2007-12-16 Views on immigration, religion and the latest on the candidates' performances at the Iowa debates....
400 2007-12-16 Concerns, even among supporters, about Clinton's record...
401 2007-12-16 A window washer who survived a 47-story plunge from an Upper East Side building on Dec. 7 has opened his eyes and started moving his arms and legs, his cousin said Saturday.

The window washer, Alcides Moreno, has not spoken or responded to any voices, his cousin, Jose Castillo, said. But Mr. Moreno’s eyes were open Friday and Saturday, Mr. Castillo said, and the movement in his limbs was a promising sign in what has been an unlikely tale of survival.

Mr. Moreno and his brother, Edgar Moreno, 30, fell to the street after their platform broke loose from the building at 265 East 66th Street.

Alcides Moreno, 37, was sitting up when firefighters arrived. He suffered a collapsed lung, damaged kidneys and bone fractures, and remained in critical condition Saturday at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital in Manhattan.

The city’s Department of Buildings and the federal Occupational Health and Safety Administration are investigating why the platform broke loose.
402 2007-12-16 MASON CITY, Iowa — Less than three weeks before the Iowa caucuses open the presidential nominating season, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton has earned the endorsement of the The Des Moines Register’s editorial board as the Democratic candidate, while Senator John McCain was chosen as the Republican.

The endorsements, which were actively sought by the campaigns, were announced late Saturday on The Register’s Web site. The editorial board called Mrs. Clinton and Mr. McCain the candidates who were the most competent and ready to lead.

“With dissension at home and distrust abroad, as American troops continue to fight wars on two fronts, the times call for two essential qualities in the next American president,” The Register’s editorial said. “Those qualities became the paramount considerations in making endorsements for the Democratic and Republican nominees in the 2008 Iowa caucuses.”

Mr. McCain also won an endorsement from The Boston Globe’s editorial pages, with the Democratic recommendation extended to Senator Barack Obama.

While The Globe’s endorsements are viewed as influential in New Hampshire, where the newspaper circulates heavily and the primary will be held on Jan. 8, it was the endorsement of The Register that the candidates vigorously pursued, hoping to spark momentum.
403 2007-12-16 Nascar has approved Penske Racing’s request to transfer owner points to Sam Hornish Jr. from Kurt Busch, a move that locks Hornish, a three-time IndyCar Series champion, into the first five Nascar races of next season. Hornish, a former Indianapolis 500 winner, is leaving the IndyCar Series for Nascar next season.
404 2007-12-16 Scratch Gary Pinkel’s name off other universities’ wish lists. Pinkel, the Missouri coach, has become a bit of a hot commodity in his seventh season, leading the Tigers to a No. 1 ranking before they lost to Oklahoma in the Big 12 championship game. But on Saturday, as the team returned to practice for the Cotton Bowl, Pinkel said he was staying put.“I’m going to stay at Missouri,” Pinkel said. “I’m very committed here. We’ve made a lot of gains this year, and I’m just going to try to keep working hard and keep building the program.”The 55-year-old Pinkel said he would like to end his career at Missouri.
405 2007-12-16 The two-time world champion Stéphane Lambiel won the Grand Prix final men’s figure skating title Saturday, adjusting his program after two faulty jumps to edge Daisuke Takahashi of Japan in Turin, Italy.

The American skaters Evan Lysacek and Johnny Weir committed errors — each falling in the free skate — to finish third and fourth.

The Russians Oksana Domnina and Maxim Shabalin won the ice dancing title ahead of Tanith Belbin and Benjamin Agosto.

KIM WINS WOMEN’S TITLE Kim Yu-na of South Korea won her second straight Grand Prix Final women’s figure skating title, staying calm after a fall.

Only the silver medalist Mao Asada of Japan and the bronze winner Carolina Kostner of Italy skated without falls.
406 2007-12-16 “It is rough, especially coming into this league and trying to establish yourself,” said Bryan, a safety who signed as an undrafted free agent and plays mostly on special teams.

Unfortunately for Bryan, he was accustomed to losing because the Aggies were not good when he played for them. But defeat is different in the N.F.L. because of the league’s parity, he said.

“Here you have professionals, and the talent is a lot better,” he said. “At New Mexico State we were overmatched against some teams, but it’s not that way here — no one is really overmatched in talent here. It’s little things everywhere that build up to 0-13.”

Nine of the Dolphins’ 10 draft picks made the opening-day roster, the most in a decade. Eight are still active, and they are considered the foundation of a rebuilding effort that may take several years.

While the rookies want to win, they are also glad merely to be in the N.F.L., and veterans may take the losing harder.

“It’s a little different for us,” Booker said. “We’re still happy to be here, and happy to say we’re involved with an N.F.L. team. We’re still trying to prove we belong here and that we’ll be here for a while.

“For us it’s still a dream. I don’t think the 0-13 affects us as much as a guy who has been in the league for four, five or six years.”

Among Miami’s rookies, Samson has had the best season and is expected to be Miami’s center for years to come. Ginn, the Dolphins’ top draft pick, has shown only occasional flashes of the big-play ability that made him a star at Ohio State, and Beck was benched last week after failing to lead the offense to a touchdown in four starts.

Despite the losing, the rookies are gaining valuable experience, Beck said.

“For a lot of us, we’ve got a special opportunity to get out and play,” he said. “We’ve had four rookies at one time or another start. Most teams aren’t going to have that many rookies get that kind of experience.”

Another rookie is Cam Cameron, who is in his first year as an N.F.L. head coach. He is halfway to former Tampa Bay Coach John McKay’s league record of 26 consecutive losses to start an N.F.L. career.

Despite the possibility of Miami going 0 for ’07, Cameron said his rookie players can benefit from this season.

“Those guys, they’re growing,” he said. “We all see it. But you’ve got to get them focusing on their preparation and make sure they continue to believe in themselves, no matter how difficult the situation.”

And perhaps before the season is over, the rookies will find themselves celebrating their first N.F.L victory.

“We’ll probably dance on our logo or jump into the stands with the fans,” Bryan said. “It will take a big monkey off everybody’s back.”
407 2007-12-16 “Patrick is on a good team,” Peppers said. “And when you’re playing on a good team, most of the time you find yourself leading those games. Teams have to catch up, so teams are passing on you. You have more opportunities to rush the quarterback.

“When you’re playing from behind, you’re going get run on all day. When teams are running on you, you don’t get a chance to get sacks. That’s been the story for a lot of the year, not as many opportunities.”

“I’ve had opportunities,” he said. “I just haven’t capitalized on some of them that I did have.”

While the 29th-ranked offense is getting most of the blame for why the Panthers (5-8) are headed toward their second straight nonwinning season, the defensive line has been a huge disappointment. With the high-priced Peppers, Kris Jenkins and Maake Kemoeatu, Carolina has an N.F.L.-low 16 sacks in 13 games — 6 of which came against the lowly San Francisco 49ers.

Peppers, who has been held to 19 quarterback pressures and 54 tackles, has looked nothing like the athlete who also played college basketball and even lined up as a receiver a few seasons ago.

Watching the 6-foot-7 Peppers has become a head-scratching experience. He is routinely stood up at the line of scrimmage by one blocker, providing little push to get through the line.

One play in last Sunday’s 37-6 loss to Jacksonville provided an example of Peppers’s decline. Not only was Peppers not double-teamed, the 5-7 Maurice Jones-Drew blocked him. It worked, as Peppers failed to get to the quarterback.

“It’s in the books,” said Peppers, who had a career-high 13 sacks last season. “So I’m not going to sit around and dwell on it. All I know is to come back and keep working.”

Peppers’s production leaves the Panthers with a big decision before next season. He has one year left on his deal, and his large salary cap figure will make it imperative that the Panthers do something with his contract.

Before the season, it was thought Peppers could command more than the six-year, $72 million deal given to Indianapolis defensive end Dwight Freeney.

“Tell them you want the A-Rod money,” blurted teammate Mike Rucker to Peppers on Thursday, in reference to the Yankees’ third baseman Alex Rodriguez.

But there is a question of whether Peppers is worth the money after a bad season that will probably end his three-year Pro Bowl streak.

“I’m still the same guy,” Peppers said. “The numbers are just not the same. If I come back next year and have 25 sacks, then it’ll be a different story. I don’t really think it’s affected anything.”
408 2007-12-16 The Bond Yields chart on the DataBank page last Sunday transposed the four-week yield changes for Treasury notes and municipal bonds. Today’s chart, on Page 11, shows the correct changes for the last four weeks.
409 2007-12-16 “We are looking for ways to gain greater strategic coherence,” said a senior administration official involved in the review process.

One assessment is being conducted within the United States military. Adm. William J. Fallon, commander of American forces in the Middle East, has ordered a full review of the mission, including the covert hunt for Taliban and Qaeda leaders.

“It’s an assessment of our current strategy and how we are doing,” said a senior military officer. “It’s looking at whether we’ve done enough or need to do more in terms of expanding governance and economic development, as well as wrestling with the difficult security issues that we have been dealing with in Afghanistan.”

Senior State Department officials also said that R. Nicholas Burns, the under secretary of state for political affairs, was coordinating another internal assessment of diplomatic efforts and economic aid — the sorts of “soft power” assistance beyond combat force that officials agree are required for success.

A third review, one that has previously been part of the public discussion, involves the strategy of NATO, which last year assumed control of the security operation in Afghanistan and has since been criticized by American officials and lawmakers for not being aggressive enough.

At an alliance meeting in Scotland on Friday, Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates successfully gained a commitment from NATO to produce what senior Pentagon officials called an “integrated plan” for Afghanistan.

“The intent is to get people to look beyond 2008 and realize this is a longer-term endeavor,” said Geoff Morrell, the Pentagon press secretary, who was with Mr. Gates in Scotland. He said the plan would “start off by acknowledging the success we’re having in terms of reconstruction and education and governance and so forth, but it also will state where we want to be in three to five years, and how we get there.”

The NATO assessment is to be completed for a meeting of alliance heads of state in Bucharest, Romania, next spring. The other reviews are due early next year.

Publicly, administration officials have expressed optimism that the war in Afghanistan can be won, but Mr. Gates told Congress this week that his optimism was “tempered by caution.”

In recent months, though, Mr. Bush’s senior advisers have expressed a growing unease.

While there is a sense that this year’s troop buildup in Iraq has turned around a dire situation, the effort in Afghanistan has begun to drift, at best, officials said. That prompted Mr. Bush’s national security adviser, Stephen J. Hadley, to oversee internal deliberations that resulted in the push for the new reviews.

The NATO-led security assistance mission in Afghanistan has about 40,000 troops; of those, 14,000 are American. Separately, the United States military has 12,000 other troops in Afghanistan conducting specialized counterterrorism missions.

Mr. Gates has declined to name specific allies that have not fulfilled pledges for combat troops, security trainers and helicopters for Afghanistan, or whose governments have placed restrictions on their combat forces. But he has noted that Britain, Canada and Australia had met their commitments and carry their full combat load.

Some members of Congress have not been so diplomatic.

“The Germans, the Spanish, the Italians don’t send any troops to the south except for 250 troops by Germany,” said Representative Joe Sestak, Democrat of Pennsylvania. A retired three-star admiral who worked on the staff of the National Security Council in the 1990s, Mr. Sestak complained that some allies “refuse to do combat ops at night and some don’t fly when the first snowflake falls.”

As part of the NATO review, alliance diplomats and military officers are closely watching the actions of Britain, which may be able to commit additional troops to Afghanistan as it reduces its deployments in Iraq.

To that end, Britain has opened its own “strategic review” of the Afghan mission, especially in the turbulent southern provinces, which will shape the alliance’s assessment, according to a senior diplomat of a NATO nation.

“Essentially what’s driving it is that a year ago, we were regarding Afghanistan as an outstanding success — we established democracy, we were in control of many parts of the country,” the NATO diplomat said. “Now we have significant issues with certain areas producing opium and the Taliban coming back in certain parts of the country, as well.”

The Democratic chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, Representative Ike Skelton of Missouri, was more direct in assessing possible failure in Afghanistan.

“I have a real concern that given our preoccupation in Iraq, we’ve not devoted sufficient troops and funding to Afghanistan to ensure success in that mission,” Mr. Skelton said. “Afghanistan has been the forgotten war.”

Strained by commitments in Iraq, the American military has few troops available to expand its forces in Afghanistan. “It is simply a matter of resources, of capacity,” Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told Congress this week. “In Afghanistan, we do what we can. In Iraq, we do what we must.”

Both Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Mr. Gates have urged Hamid Karzai, the Afghan president, to consider proposals for eradicating poppy fields by aerial spraying to halt the rapid increase in opium production. But the Afghan president has thus far rejected the idea, and even American officials admit that vastly increased eradication efforts would be counterproductive unless alternative livelihoods were immediately available to the poppy farmers.

The Karzai government also is said to be reluctant to endorse having an international coordinator with expanded powers, fearing its own legitimacy and credibility could be undermined.

Julianne Smith, director of the Europe Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said the mission in Afghanistan was at risk of failure, as political support in European capitals strained NATO’s ability to sustain, let alone expand its effort there.

“The mission in Afghanistan has been suffering from neglect on all sides,” she said.
410 2007-12-16 The pictures were taken by Paolo Roversi, a world-famous fashion photographer. They feature Ali Michael, a 17-year-old model who looks younger, posing semi-nude. One sequence shows her “wearing” a $3,890 blue taffeta coat by John Galliano. I say “wearing” because the coat is bunched around her waist so that you can’t really tell what it is. She has her back to the camera and nothing else on. In one image, she is turned slightly, showing the outline of a bare breast, out of focus.

Several readers complained, two of whom likened the photos to child pornography.

Jim Schachter, a deputy editor of The New York Times Magazine who has oversight responsibility for T, said the photos “didn’t give me pause for one second.”

The Times flew Ali and her mom, MaryAnn, to Paris, where the photographs were taken in Roversi’s studio. The shoot cost the newspaper tens of thousands of dollars. From her home in Colleyville, Tex., MaryAnn Michael told me that she felt the images of her daughter were “in very good taste and very artistic in nature.”

Ali, a rising star in modeling, “was very comfortable with it, and I have to tell you she’s a young lady who is very modest,” MaryAnn Michael said. She said she recognized that “each person is going to have his perception of what is art and what is not.” Even within Ali’s family there can be a difference of opinion. For her father, Bob, the Times photos “might have been a little bit difficult,” MaryAnn Michael said.

In the end, what counts for The Times is whether photographs of a semi-nude teenager with a certain Lolita quality to them are appropriate for the newspaper, regardless of their artistic merit.

Schachter argued that they are. T’s job, he said, “is to put out a beautiful, exciting, eye-popping, page-turning magazine without crossing the line to being offensive and without being shy about walking right up to the line of being provocative, and that’s going to cause debate when you get close to that line.”

T operates in several contexts, Schachter said, including “the world of fashion magazines and fashion, where youth and unattainable beauty and charged sexuality are the currency of the day.”

I looked through the December issues of Elle, W and Vogue and found no editorial photographs that pushed the boundary to the degree that the Roversi photos did in The Times. The winter issue of V, a fashion magazine with a smaller circulation that is further out on the edge, was another matter, making The Times look conservative by comparison.

But readers of V know what they are getting and seek it out. T is delivered with the Sunday Times to more than a million homes; readers have no choice about receiving it, and even though the audience of The Times is regarded as relatively sophisticated, some people do not want their children exposed to on-the-edge photos. I think that puts a special burden on The Times to be well inside the boundaries of good taste.

The fashion world is no stranger to controversy — and courts it, to some degree. That does not mean The Times has to play the same game. Remember heroin chic of the mid-90s, when skinny fashion models with sunken eyes had the look of strung-out addicts? Times news coverage of the trend prompted President Bill Clinton to condemn it.

I told Schachter I was disturbed that The Times would place a teenager in a “sexualized context,” a term he did not disagree with. “We’re well past the point in our culture when there is a bright line that separates sexually charged images of men and women just short of 18 from art,” he said.

Bill Keller, the executive editor of The Times, approved the photo spread in what appears to have been an offhand way. He believes he was shown the entire holiday issue of T before it was locked in, with someone turning through the pages. Nobody pointed out the photos of Ali to suggest there might be a problem with them, and Keller said they “didn’t register” with him. Nonetheless, he defended them. “I think that they are within bounds for an edgy fashion magazine published by The New York Times,” he said.

Craig Whitney, the assistant managing editor in charge of maintaining Times standards, would have disagreed. Had the magazine been shown to him before it was published, he said, he would have called the photos to Keller’s attention and recommended that they be deleted, “because I thought they were tawdry.”

I think they were neither pornographic nor tawdry — those terms go too far — but I am with Whitney in believing that The Times made a mistake in publishing them. The problem with being edgy is that, sometimes, you fall over the edge.
411 2007-12-16 Re “Rights Group Says Egypt Used Torture in Terror Case” (news article, Dec. 12):

The allegations contained in the Human Rights Watch report about the Victorious Sect case in Egypt are highly misleading.

The indications that the entire case was “concocted,” as you say, by the security forces rest on very slim evidence. As you note, Human Rights Watch did not interview any of the suspects detained in connection with this case. Furthermore, the accusation that the case was used to justify the renewal of Egypt’s emergency law is contradicted by the government’s announcement that the state of emergency would end within two years, to be replaced by a new antiterrorism law.

The claim of a lack of due process is also contradicted by the fact that the charges were dismissed.

Human Rights Watch seems to have used the case as an opportunity to criticize Egypt with little or no evidence for its assertions.

The writer is director of the press and information office at the Egyptian Embassy.
412 2007-12-16 The obsession with marrying research and markets, while generally a strength of American capitalism, leaves some needs unmet. To fill them, “companies need boots on the ground at universities,” says Henry Chesbrough, a business professor who studies innovation at the University of California, Berkeley.

A vanguard group of universities is giving corporations greater access to ivory-tower laboratories — for a price. Stanford has paired with Exxon Mobil in a deal worth $100 million over 10 years. The University of California, Davis, is getting $25 million from Chevron. And Intel has opened collaborative laboratories with Berkeley, the University of Washington and Carnegie Mellon.

The appeal of these arrangements is that “we get broad engagement with universities,” says Andrew A. Chien, Intel’s director of research. “Their researchers work on frontiers, in unexplored territory. We want explorers.”

Intel hopes to learn more about scientific and technical developments that might influence its business, even decades from now. The company says it benefits from having its own employees rub shoulders with professors, while gaining the chance to observe younger talent in Ph.D. programs.

“You can view this as a pure pipeline,” says Mr. Chien, himself a former professor.

Jean Stéphenne, president of the vaccine division of GlaxoSmithKline, the pharmaceutical company, says university partnerships with corporations will grow “because technology is changing so rapidly.” Even if companies have the resources to finance their own research and identify the right academic problems to tackle, they usually don’t have the time to assemble a staff to pursue these problems. Without help from university professors, Mr. Stéphenne asks, “How can we cope?”

Some people doubt that formal partnerships between corporations and universities can deliver real benefits.

“Universities don’t innovate,” says Curtis R. Carlson, chief executive of SRI International, a nonprofit research institute in Menlo Park, Calif., that bought what remained of RCA’s lab. “Innovation means you get it out so people can use it. The university is not going to take it to the world.”

But corporations hope that universities can help them take innovations to the world faster and more efficiently. Last month, BP pledged to spend $500 million over 10 years on alternative-energy research to be carried out by a new Energy Biosciences Institute at Berkeley, which will manage work done at a nearby Department of Energy lab and at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.

“This is a new model we’re working through in real time,” says Robert J. Birgeneau, the chancellor of Berkeley.

CRITICS of corporate-university partnerships fear limits on academic freedom or, worse, that companies might censor results that go against their interests. The risk of such interference seems small, however. Despite the large amount being offered by BP, the money will be divided three ways; of Berkeley’s annual research budget of $500 million (nearly all from the federal government), BP will be contributing less than 3 percent.

Under the terms of the partnership, meanwhile, Berkeley professors are free to publish results of BP-funded research. The university also will own the rights to any resulting intellectual property. BP would even have to license that intellectual property, though payments are capped and the company would get the first look at promising results.

The alternative to corporate funds is for universities to rely even more on government funds. And that raises parallel issues in the minds of some academics. The idea that government funding plays no role in prioritizing research “is completely at odds with reality,” says Michael Crow, the president of Arizona State University.

The marriage of corporations and university researchers is still in its early days. “In the decades ahead, we will see more differentiation among universities in how they go about doing this,” Mr. Crow says.

For universities, no matter what models emerge, the key is to deliver benefits to society and business.

“Will these partnerships produce products you won’t get from two people in a garage?” Mr. Birgeneau asks. “We don’t know that yet. It is an important question.”
413 2007-12-16 The Pershing Square Building is a 25-story tower that opened in 1923. The showroom, which is on the second floor, was created by Eva Maddox, a designer at the Chicago office of Perkins & Will, an architecture firm. Haworth’s 30,000 square feet of space was most recently the Satellite Airlines Terminal, where various airlines maintained ticket counters. Haworth moved to the new quarters on Dec. 7 from 20,000 square feet at 625 Avenue of the Americas, at 18th Street.

Showing how the products function is crucial to the showroom design. With the exception of a discrete wall of wood finishes and a small display of chairs off the core of the reception area, Haworth’s products are integrated into the environment and used in the daily routine of the staff members, who number about 50 in the New York office and 8,000 worldwide, Mr. Bianchi said.

Vignettes like cubicles, training areas or conference rooms make it easy for potential customers to see what the products would look like in their own offices, Ms. Maddox said. “Our goal is to show product in an environment that gives inspiration and ideas designers can spin off and make their own,” she said.

The site is among 19 Haworth showrooms in the United States. Two have received gold LEED ratings, and three are awaiting the designation. Visitors enter the space through an elevator bank in which walls are lined with a cream-colored natural stone. A right turn leads to the center of the showroom, where the floor is a combination of treated cork finished in white and white stone. An area with 10-foot ceilings and seating leads to the reception and common areas, where the ceiling soars to 30 feet.

At the rear, three two-story arched windows are framed on the exterior with elaborate pre-Renaissance-style decorative details in polychrome terra cotta. The windows provide spectacular views of Grand Central Terminal across 42nd Street and of the elevated portion of Park Avenue that carries traffic north and south around the station.

As a contrast to the visual buzz outside — created by the traffic and the building’s details — Ms. Maddox decided to go stark contemporary with the interior. The look also helps to highlight the merchandise.

“We wanted to give the product a way to stand out,” said Ms. Maddox, whose company, Eva Maddox Branded Environments, was acquired by Perkins & Will in 2001.

The sleek reception desk has a Haworth logo on a 30-foot-high signature burgundy ribbon of laminated glass that helps to divide the space. Behind it is what Ms. Maddox calls a “restore area,” where staff members can gather around a long refectory-style walnut table. Soft suede-covered armchairs in a pale shade of cappuccino brown alternate with benches around the table.

Cabinets faced in milky white glass and topped with white marble line one side of this area; waist-high file cabinets with narrow drawers line the other. This idea is repeated to the right and left of the restore area with units designed to keep fabric and wood samples and sales tools out of sight. A red rug in a seating area and another glass panel in burgundy complete the ribbon effect in the reception area. Red glass ribbons placed in the floor, perpendicular to the central one, are imprinted with maps to suggest the company’s global reach.

“The ribbon that runs through here connects the space and gives us a platform to stage things on,” said Ms. Maddox, who is also designing the exhibition space for the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum and working on the branding and redesign of the executive floors of the New York offices of L’Oréal USA. “It is the one unifying element.”

CHROME track lighting hangs from the ceiling at odd angles, giving the effect of a shimmering light sculpture against the bright white ceiling. In spaces for offices and common areas, floors are raised above the level of those at the elevator bank to accommodate heating and cooling delivery systems underneath. According to Ms. Maddox, bringing heat or air-conditioning into an area from below is much more efficient.

The configuration of offices and cubicles in the showroom, as well as the color scheme, can change several times a year for a fresh look and to demonstrate the system’s flexibility to potential clients.

“The challenge is to integrate all the different products, and show the different styles in a way that they work together,” Ms. Maddox said.

Haworth was founded in 1948 in a garage in Holland, Mich., by G. W. Haworth, a high school shop teacher. The company now has 24 manufacturing plants in 10 countries and sells in 120 markets worldwide. Two-thirds of its net sales are in the United States, Mr. Bianchi said.

The New York showroom, Mr. Bianchi said represents the philosophy behind what the company sells: sophisticated, well-designed practical products at a good price.

“We don’t build castles,” he said. “We don’t want to be seen as wasteful and extravagant. We want to show customers that good design can be affordable.”
414 2007-12-16 “Oz Clarke’s Pocket Wine Guide 2008” (Harcourt, $15) is a cornucopia of fact and opinion.

Mr. Clarke, a popular British critic, cites among “regions to watch” Bierzo in Spain, Campania in Italy, Central Otago in New Zealand and Santa Lucia Highlands in California.

His “top-value” recommendations include Peter Lehmann whites from Australia and reds made from the native trincadeira grape in the Alentejo region of Portugal.
415 2007-12-16 IT does not come as a surprise to hear that Francis Ford Coppola loves his espresso. Doesn’t everyone? Who doesn’t need a little pick-me-up, a jolt, a jump, a kick, a boost every so often? And who would doubt that the virtuoso who created several of history’s most engrossing films likes a little caffeine? You just assume it takes a good shot to shoot a good take.

Mr. Coppola’s latest film, “Youth Without Youth,” which opened on Friday, centers on a 70-year-old professor who is struck by lighting, whereupon his aging brain is supercharged. It is tempting to speculate that the 68-year-old director’s affinity for the subject matter might have been generated by a fantasy about the world’s biggest cup of joe.

But truth be told, once the piquant, frothing brew spits and burbles out of the machine into a dainty little cup, Mr. Coppola’s interest in it wanes. He gladly hands it over to an onlooker.

“I enjoy a good cup of coffee in the morning,” he said, “but I’m not supposed to overdo it.” And when he starts talking about espresso, you understand why: it’s a contact high.

Long fascinated with the curious process that makes espresso the heady brew it is, Mr. Coppola has, by his estimate, owned as many as 300 machines. Yes, 300. He bought his first machine in 1968 or so, and since then has bought them for houses, for sets, for offices, for apartments, for hotel rooms.

He has an early favorite, a large, silvery old-fashioned machine for the first offices of American Zoetrope Studios, his production company. But, caring as little for sentiment in his coffee as for sediment, he prefers to brandish his latest prize. That is the Illy Francis Francis X7, a brand-new retro-styled machine that makes a great cup of espresso, complete with a nice head of crema, at the push of a button. (No, it is not named for him.)
416 2007-12-16 The property tax is a concept whose better days are behind it. It concentrates on one asset while ignoring income. Two people in similar homes pay the same tax — even if one lives on Social Security and the neighbor makes a huge salary and has millions in stocks.

The most obvious drawback of the current property tax system is that since it ignores a person’s income, it causes undue hardship for retired people and those going through tough times. As baby boomers, many of whom have no defined-benefit pension plan, begin to retire in huge numbers, thousands in Connecticut will be forced out of their homes — and most likely out of the state since affordable housing isn’t easy to come by here.

The other disadvantage of the property tax system is its impact on local education budgets, which is more complicated. In volatile real estate markets, big swings in valuations are controversial. Madison’s last revaluation in 2002 resulted in 640 assessment appeals and 156 lawsuits. Commenting on the enormous economic and psychic costs of assessments, Thomas Scarpati, Madison’s former first selectman, said that he “would rather set himself on fire” than go through another revaluation.

Taxpayers who have seen their taxes jump 25 percent or more in a single year are predisposed to vote no when education budgets go to referendum. Town officials understand this pressure, so they become loath to increase budgets. This in turn alienates their pro-education constituents.

The basic problem is that the property tax does not spread the cost to a large enough economic base. After a revaluation a small number of taxpayers see their taxes go up (although their increases are frequently very high). But a surprising number of people see taxes go down or stay about the same — and these folks are not helping to pay for the ever rising municipal budgets that are a reality all over the United States.

What we need to do is phase out the property tax and replace it with a municipal income tax. This tax would be set as a small percent of a person’s state (or federal) tax or adjusted gross income. A municipal income tax has a number of advantages: everyone with a taxable income would contribute to the budget according to their true means. The tax base would be higher than it would be under property values. The system would be fairer, cheaper, easier to administer and less acrimonious. Most important, it could generate enough revenue to meet our town’s growing needs.

The property tax is ready for retirement. Somewhere there has to be an imaginative public official who can come up with an answer to the problem. Whether it is a simplified municipal income tax or something else, we need a solution.
417 2007-12-16 THE thought of shrieks from playgrounds during recess may till now have distanced developers from choosing sites near schools. But with buildable city lots in such short supply, they now appear willing to reconsider.

Two Manhattan buildings are to rise close enough to schools that they will almost seem part of campus: the Azure, at 33 East 91st Street, and a condo-rental at 250 East 57th Street.

And if the schools and apartments end up looking similar, it’s because the same developers are to build both, under deals hammered out with city’s Educational Construction Fund, a division of the Department of Education.

Created in 1967 but dormant for some time, the fund works to ease overcrowding in schools by leasing unused air rights over low-slung buildings, in exchange for new classrooms.

In the past 40 years, the fund has added 18,000 school seats, said Jamie Smarr, its director, adding that the two new projects alone will create 2,700. “We’re getting $300 million of new construction out of this,” he said, “and none of it is going on the city’s books.”
418 2007-12-16 One of the portable containers’ advantages is that “people have to keep their things secure but they also want instant access,” said Craig Hamilton, who runs Go Mini’s of Long Island, in Huntington Station. “Then there’s the convenience factor — instead of going to their storage, their storage comes to them.”

But because the boxes, which look like scaled-down tractor-trailer containers, can remain on a customer’s property, neighbors and town officials are not always pleased with them. Many towns and cities in the region have passed ordinances regulating portable storage units, requiring permits and setting time limits on their on-site use.

“They were popping up all over the place,” said Ralph Scordino, mayor of the Village of Babylon, on Long Island. “People were keeping them there for long periods of time.”

The village passed an ordinance last May that included a $100 fee for each 30-day permit and a 90-day total time limit.

“After we put this through, it seemed to reduce the problems a lot,” Mr. Scordino said.

Elaine Broyles, the zoning and code enforcement officer in Bernardsville, N.J., which is contemplating regulations, said she gets frequent complaints about portable containers.

“I keep seeing PODS or Pack-Rat headed into town on the back of trucks, and it makes me a little worried,” Ms. Broyles said. “I can understand if you’re doing construction on your house or moving, but sometimes it seems like people are using them as a shed. You can go buy a shed for what that rental would be for a month.”

The portable-storage industry started as an offshoot of self-storage about five years ago, said Randy Weissman, president of the Mobile Self Storage Association, based in St. Louis.

Mr. Hamilton also runs a full-service moving company in Huntington Station, on Long Island, and said he had expected that most of his business would come from moderate-income customers who were looking to save money on a move. “It did not bear out that way — we put them in very affluent areas too,” usually for customers who want to move their items during renovations, he said.

Chris Walls runs a Go Mini’s dealership covering parts of western Connecticut and northern New Jersey, as well as Westchester County. From 2006 to this year, he doubled the number of his storage units to about 340 and expects to have close to 600 by the end of next year.

In addition to people who are moving and renters, he said his customers include contractors and other business owners, like Joseph Novella, who runs an environment-friendly building company in Danbury, Conn. Mr. Novella said he used Go Mini’s to store materials on the lot where he rents space for a small office.

“If I call in the morning, I’ll have one in the afternoon,” he said. “If I don’t need the space anymore, he takes it back.”

It’s when a renter doesn’t call fairly soon that problems arise.

The town of Prospect, Conn., passed a portable-storage ordinance fairly early on, in May 2005, limiting use to movers and renovators, requiring a 10-foot setback from the front property line and a time limit.

“When these things started popping up we said, ‘Whoa — this could cause problems,’ so we took a proactive stance,” said Robert Hiscox, chairman of Prospect’s planning and zoning commission.

In Redding, Conn., portable storage is regulated by an existing temporary-storage code. “We haven’t had a lot of problems with them,” said Tom Gormley, the zoning officer.

The units have not caused many problems in several Westchester County towns, officials said.

Bill Williams, village manager of Port Chester, said, “We’re not overwhelmed with them at this time.” In New Rochelle, a city spokeswoman said the units are regulated under a temporary-structure code and there have been few complaints.

Jim McAndrews, who supervises the northern New Jersey operations of PODS, said his company expects regulations. At the company’s Florida headquarters, a computer system tracks known ordinances by ZIP codes so a customer can be informed of local regulations.

Regulation seems to be more widespread in New Jersey, with ordinances in many towns, including Park Ridge, Tenafly, Manalapan, Bridgewater, Rumson and Brielle.

The storage units are used for an average of about three weeks, before they are returned or moved to a storage area, Mr. McAndrews said. In his area, the monthly rental fee goes up every month that a unit is on a customer’s site.

“We do that to discourage people from leaving it on their property forever,” he said. “It can tend to irk your neighbor.”
419 2007-12-16 While negotiating the sale of his share of a small shawarma restaurant to a friend of his, my husband learned that a famous shawarma chain is opening a branch near the restaurant. He fears that if he tells the friend, he will back out of the deal. It feels wrong to withhold this information. Must he tell? — Wendy Schor-Haim, Tel Aviv

Shawarma — the popular Middle Eastern sandwich commonly made of shaved lamb or chicken rolled in pita with tomato, onion and tahini. Delicious!

Different relationships entail different obligations. Your shawarmian discontent derives from the ambiguity of your husband’s position. Business associate or buddy? If it’s the former, he need not tell; if it’s the latter, he must.

Each party in the sale of a company is expected to exercise due diligence on his own behalf, availing himself of public information like that surrounding a famous chain’s expansion plan. Seller and buyer must respect the law and fair business practices, but because each party wants to maximize its benefit at the other’s expense, both must also heed the rule of caveat emptor.

There is no rule of amicus caveo. Friends should seek one another’s well-being, not profit from one another’s ignorance. Your husband must either embrace the duties of friendship or declare that here he acts not as a friend but as a business associate, so that both parties understand their interaction. That is, if he can not offer affection, he must at least provide clarity.

Update: Midnegotiation, a sign was posted on the block announcing the imminent arrival of a branch of a national pizza chain. (Pizza — the popular Italian dish of tomato sauce and mozzarella cheese atop a crust of. . . . Oh, you know.) The shawarma-chain rumor was false. The sale to the friend was concluded happily.
420 2007-12-16 No, he says, there was no thought of a Microsoft takedown when, earlier this year, Google introduced a package of online software offerings, called Google Apps, that includes e-mail, instant messaging, calendars, word processing and spreadsheets. They are simpler versions of the pricey programs that make up Microsoft’s lucrative Office business, and Google is offering them free to consumers.

Still, Google Apps aren’t anything other than a natural step in Google’s march to deliver more computing capability to users over the Internet, Mr. Schmidt says.

“For most people,” he says, “computers are complex and unreliable,” given to crashing and afflicted with viruses. If Google can deliver computing services over the Web, then “it will be a real improvement in people’s lives,” he says.

To explain, Mr. Schmidt steps up to a white board. He draws a rectangle and rattles off a list of things that can be done in the Web-based cloud, and he notes that this list is expanding as Internet connection speeds become faster and Internet software improves. In a sliver of the rectangle, about 10 percent, he marks off what can’t be done in the cloud, like high-end graphics processing. So, in Google’s thinking, will 90 percent of computing eventually reside in the cloud?

“In our view, yes,” Mr. Schmidt says. “It’s a 90-10 thing.” Inside the cloud resides “almost everything you do in a company, almost everything a knowledge worker does.”

Mr. Schmidt clearly believes that the arcs of technology and history are in Google’s corner, no matter how hard he tries to avoid mooning the giant. Microsoft, of course, isn’t planning to merely stand still. It has spent billions trying to catch Google in search and Web advertising, so far without success. And the companies are also fighting it out in promising new fields as varied as Web maps, online video and cellphone software.

“The fundamental Google model is to try to change all the rules of the software world,” says David B. Yoffie, a professor at the Harvard Business School. If Google succeeds, Mr. Yoffie says, “a lot of the value that Microsoft provides today is potentially obsolete.”

At Microsoft, Mr. Schmidt’s remarks are fighting words. Traditional software installed on personal computers is where Microsoft makes its living, and its executives see the prospect of 90 percent of computing tasks migrating to the Web-based cloud as a fantasy.

“It’s, of course, totally inaccurate compared with where the market is today and where the market is headed,” says Jeff Raikes, president of Microsoft’s business division, which includes the Office products.

TO Mr. Raikes, the company’s third-longest-serving executive, after Mr. Gates and Mr. Ballmer, the Google challenge is an attack on Microsoft that is both misguided and arrogant. “The focus is on competitive self-interest; it’s on trying to undermine Microsoft, rather than what customers want to do,” he says.

Microsoft, Mr. Raikes notes, has spent years and billions of dollars in product development and customer research, studying in minute detail how individual workers and companies use software. What they want, he says, is the desktop programs and features of Microsoft Office, and the proof is in the marketplace. “I mean, we have more than 500 million people who are using Microsoft Office tools,” he says.

Indeed, Microsoft is the wealthy incumbent with a huge lead in the market for personal productivity software, with a share of more than 90 percent. But the Google challenge, industry analysts say, is not so much a head-to-head confrontation with Microsoft in its desktop stronghold as it is a long-term shift toward Web software, which operates with different principles and economics.

Analysts note that Google is a different competitor from others Microsoft has dispatched in recent years: it is bigger, faster-growing, loaded with cash and a magnet for talent. And the technology of the Google cloud opens doors. Its vast data centers are designed by Google engineers for efficiency, speed and low cost, giving the company an edge in computing firepower and allowing it to add offerings inexpensively.

“Once you have those data centers, you want to go out and develop complementary products and services,” says Hal R. Varian, a former professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who is Google’s chief economist. They can be offered free or at minimal cost to users, he says, because they bring more traffic to Google, generating more search and ad revenue.

Google, it seems, has a promising opening against Microsoft. But tilting at a giant and taking down a giant are very different things.

Microsoft, of course, isn’t standing still. Just as it squelched the first Internet challenge in the 1990s by linking Web browsing software to its mainstay products, it is now adopting a similar strategy for cloud computing by adding Internet features to its offerings. It is moving cautiously on this front, however, to avoid eroding the profitability of its desktop franchise.

More than any other Google foray, providing Web-based software to workers for communication, collaboration and documents promises to be the acid test of how far Google can go beyond Internet search. Will two of its formulas — its distinctive, hurry-up model of building products and services, and its rapid-fire approach to recruiting and innovation — succeed in new arenas?

Google’s quicksilver corporate culture can be jarring for some employees, even for Mr. Schmidt. He recalls that shortly after joining the company and its young founders, Sergey Brin and Larry Page, he was frustrated that people were answering e-mail on their laptops at meetings while he was speaking.

“I’ve given up” trying to change such behavior, he says. “They have to answer their e-mail. Velocity matters.”

VELOCITY does, indeed, matter, and Google deploys it to great effect. Conventional software is typically built, tested and shipped in two- or three-year product cycles. Inside Google, Mr. Schmidt says, there are no two-year plans. Its product road maps look ahead only four or five months at most. And, Mr. Schmidt says, the only plans “anybody believes in go through the end of this quarter.”

Google maintains that pace courtesy of the cloud. With a vast majority of its products Web-based, it doesn’t wait to ship discs or load programs onto personal computers. Inside the company, late stages of product development are sometimes punctuated by 24-to-48-hour marathon programming sessions known as “hack-a-thons.” The company sometimes invites outside engineers to these sessions to encourage independent software developers to use Google technologies as platforms for their own products.

New features and improvements are made and tested on Google’s computers and constantly sprinkled into the services users tap into online. In the last two months alone, eight new features or improvements have been added to Google’s e-mail system, Gmail, including a tweak to improve the processing speed and code to simplify the handling of e-mail on mobile phones. A similar number of enhancements have been made in the last two months to Google’s online spreadsheet, word processing and presentation software.

Early this month, Google released new cellphone software, with the code-name Grand Prix. A project that took just six weeks to complete, Grand Prix allows for fast and easy access to Google services like search, Gmail and calendars through a stripped-down mobile phone browser. (For now, it is tailored for iPhone browsers, but the plan is to make it work on other mobile browsers as well.)

Grand Prix was born when a Google engineer, tinkering on his own one weekend, came up with prototype code and e-mailed it to Vic Gundotra, a Google executive who oversees mobile products. Mr. Gundotra then showed the prototype to Mr. Schmidt, who in turn mentioned it to Mr. Brin. In about an hour, Mr. Brin came to look at the prototype.

“Sergey was really supportive,” recalls Mr. Gundotra, saying that Mr. Brin was most intrigued by the “engineering tricks” employed. After that, Mr. Gundotra posted a message on Google’s internal network, asking employees who owned iPhones to test the prototype. Such peer review is common at Google, which has an engineering culture in which a favorite mantra is “nothing speaks louder than code.”

As co-workers dug in, testing Grand Prix’s performance speed, memory use and other features, “the feedback started pouring in,” Mr. Gundotra recalls. The comments amounted to a thumbs-up, and after a few weeks of fine-tuning and fixing bugs, Grand Prix was released. In the brief development, there were no formal product reviews or formal approval processes.

Mr. Gundotra joined Google in July, after 15 years at Microsoft. He says that he always considered Microsoft to be the epicenter of technological development, but that the rise of cloud computing forced him to reconsider.

“It became obvious that Google was the place where I could have the biggest impact,” he says. “For guys like me, who have a love affair with software, being able to ship a product in weeks — that’s an irresistible draw.”

Another draw is Google’s embrace of experimentation and open-ended job assignments. Recent college graduates are routinely offered jobs at Google without being told what they will be doing. The company does this partly to keep corporate secrets locked up, but often it also doesn’t know what new hires will be doing.

Christophe Bisciglia, a 27-year-old engineer, qualifies as a seasoned veteran at Google, having worked there for four years. Mr. Bisciglia has done a lot of college recruiting in the last two years and has interviewed more than 100 candidates.

“We look for smart generalists, who we can be confident can fulfill any need we have,” he explains. “We hire someone, and who knows what need we’ll have when that person shows up six months later? We move so fast.”

MR. SCHMIDT readily concedes that cloud computing won’t happen overnight. Big companies change habits slowly, as do older consumers. Clever software is needed — and under development, he says — to overcome other shortcomings like the “airplane issue,” or how users can keep working when they find themselves unable to get online.

Yet small and midsize companies, as well as universities and individuals — in other words, a majority of computer users — could shift toward Web-based cloud computing fairly quickly, Mr. Schmidt contends. Small businesses, he says, could greatly reduce their costs and technology headaches by adopting the Web offerings now available from Google and others.

“It makes no sense to run your own computers if you are a small business starting up,” he says. “You’d be crazy to buy packaged software.”

Still, in order to succeed, Google needs to win a broad array of converts, including corporations. That effort is led by Dave Girouard, the general manager of Google’s enterprise business, who joined the company in 2004, shortly after it decided to move beyond its search business and consumer focus.

Gmail, introduced just after Mr. Girouard arrived, illustrates Google’s strategic evolution as well as its increased willingness to take on Microsoft.

Paul Buchheit, a Google engineer, started on what became Gmail as far back as 2001. At the time, there was resistance inside the company to the project. Back then, Google was providing search service for Yahoo, a useful source of revenue for the young start-up, and Yahoo had its own Web e-mail system. Another concern was straying into Microsoft’s territory.

“Definitely one of the reasons people thought it was a bad idea is that it could incite Microsoft to destroy Google,” recalled Mr. Buchheit, who left Google last year and now works for a start-up.

Gmail, a full-fledged Web offering built by Google, took time to develop. Features had to be added and tested, and hundreds of Google engineers had to use it and approve. The company’s arsenal of data centers — highly efficient and designed by Google engineers — had to be equipped to offer ample free storage for users.

And as Google grew in size, profitability and stature during those years, riling a giant was less of a worry. By the time Gmail was ready, Mr. Buchheit says, “Google was much more established, and they were more comfortable competing with Microsoft.”

In the corporate market, Google sees itself as a powerful agent of change, breaking down old barriers. “For the last 30 or 40 years, there has been this huge Chinese wall between business and consumer technology,” Mr. Girouard says. “That was historical and no longer valid.”

Google’s push into the business market began in earnest only this year, but Mr. Girouard is already encouraged by the results. About 2,000 companies are signing up for Google Apps every working day, he said. Most are trying the free version. That’s fine, he says, because those users also generate more search-related advertising revenue for Google. After a 60-day free trial, companies with more than 50 users are beginning to sign up for the Google Apps Premier Edition at a charge of $50 a year per user, which includes customer support.

These applications are minimal, task-oriented tools that lack many of the features in Microsoft Office, but, Google managers say, most people use only a fraction of those fancier features anyway.

“If you’re creating a complex document like an annual report, you want Word, and if you’re making a sophisticated financial model, you want Excel,” Mr. Girouard notes. “That’s what the Microsoft products are great at. But less and less work is like that.”

Google’s entry, he says, has ignited interest in bringing cloud computing into corporations. Senior technology managers of large corporations, he says, are “talking to us every day of the week about where Google is going and what we can do.” A few large companies, notably General Electric and Procter & Gamble, have said publicly that they are at least trying out Google Apps.

Next year, Mr. Girouard predicts, “a lot of big companies” will be adopting Google Apps for tens of thousands of workers each.

Microsoft dismisses Google’s optimism as wishful thinking. Microsoft’s competitive tracking of the corporate market, says Mr. Raikes, the leader of the Office business, finds nothing like the momentum for Google that Mr. Girouard portrays. “It is not in any way, shape or form close to what he is suggesting,” Mr. Raikes says.

COUNTLESS decisions by corporate technology managers, office workers, university students and rank-and-file computer users of all kinds will ultimately determine Google’s success. How easy and inexpensive will it be to do e-mail, word processing, spreadsheets and team projects on Web software? Will high-speed network connections soon become as ubiquitous and reliable as Google seems to assume? Will companies, universities and individuals trust Google to hold corporate and personal information safely?

At the corporate level, inexpensive, low-stress e-mail is the initial lure of Google Apps. About 160 employees of BankFirst Financial Services, a small bank in Macon, Miss., have been using Gmail for about two months, happily substituting it for an older system that had been overwhelmed by heavy traffic and spam. Bank workers are also using Google Apps’ instant messaging and calendar features to get immediate answers to customer questions and to set up meetings online.

But BankFirst isn’t using Google’s online word processing, presentation and spreadsheets, a package known as Google Docs. Like so many other companies, it still relies on the Microsoft Word and Excel programs for those tasks. “I really don’t see us migrating from that,” says Josh Hailey, the bank’s computer network manager.

According to Compete.com, a research firm, Google Docs is gaining popularity. It had 1.6 million users in November, seven times as many as a year earlier. That’s a nice lift, but the Microsoft Office suite, containing programs like Word and Excel, is nearly two decades old and runs on some 500 million PCs. The reality is that even if Mr. Schmidt and Google are right about the potential of cloud computing in the workplace, Microsoft is still seen inside most companies as the safe choice.

Another crucial battleground for both companies is the university market, where the stakes are less about making money and more about winning the loyalty of students who might become valuable customers later in life. Google and Microsoft each offer free Web-based e-mail to universities, for example.

When Arizona State University, one of the nation’s largest with 65,000 students, decided last year to choose a new e-mail system, it had concerns about the security and privacy of student information and messages stored on Google servers. “It’s like the virtue of banks over mattresses,” explains Adrian Sannier, the university’s chief technology officer. “You feel like keeping the money in your mattress and defending it with your own gun is the right thing to do.” But Arizona State decided that Google, with all its expertise, could do a better job than the university’s own technology department.

Microsoft, Mr. Sannier notes, also offered free Web e-mail to Arizona State, but for an online service the university decided Google was the smarter choice because the company is totally committed to Web software. “We saw Microsoft as a company that is divided on the issue of cloud computing,” Mr. Sannier says.

The university’s switch to Google-hosted e-mail has gone smoothly, and Mr. Sannier estimates that the school is saving $500,000 a year by not handling e-mail itself. Students, he added, also get more than e-mail. They have access to Google Apps, and thousands of them, he says, now use Google’s Web software for calendars, word processing and spreadsheets.

To be sure, Microsoft is not ceding cloud computing to Google. It is investing heavily in huge data centers and Web software. Inside Microsoft, there are engineers and product managers who sound a lot like Googlers.

Ellie Powers-Boyle, 25, a graduate of M.I.T., works on Microsoft’s Web e-mail products. In the last three years, she says, there have been a dozen significant upgrades of the Web e-mail product, and she has worked on three or four new features each time. “We iterate quickly,” she says. “For someone of my generation, the whole idea of waiting years to see if you made the right product makes no sense.”

The challenge for Microsoft is not the ability to do much of what Google does. Instead, the company faces a business quandary. The Microsoft approach is largely to try to link the Web to its desktop business — “software plus Internet services,” in its formulation. It will embrace the Web, while striving to maintain the revenue and profits from its desktop software businesses, the corporate gold mine. That is a smart strategy for Microsoft and its shareholders for now, but it may not be sustainable.

Assuming that competition heats up, Office may continue to be an outstanding product, but Microsoft may not be able to charge as much for it — just as low-cost personal computers eventually undercut the mainframe business, and traditional publishing and media companies have grappled with Internet distribution. The traditional products remain popular, but they become much less profitable.

FOR its part, Google faces its own set of challenges: competition from Microsoft and from Web-based productivity software being offered by start-ups like Zoho and Transmedia as well as more established players like Yahoo. A recent report by the Burton Group, a technology research firm, concluded that it was “unclear at this point whether Google will be able to capitalize on the trends that it’s accelerating.”

Is Google “really committed to the productivity of information workers?” asks Chris Capossela, a vice president in Microsoft’s Office group. “Boy, there’s no question that we are. No customer on the planet thinks about Microsoft without thinking about Office. It’s part of the DNA of Microsoft.

“Needless to say, we are going to do everything we can to remain the leader in this space,” he adds. “And whoever comes our way, we’ll certainly be waiting for them.”
421 2007-12-16 Deerhoof, Grizzly Bear, David Byrne, Liars, Franz Ferdinand and Hot Chip are among the many fans of the British artist David Shrigley, who draws cartoons with texts that bring a childlike clarity to macabre thoughts. “Everybody hates you, won’t tell you why/Letter from the doctor says your gonna die/Cute little kittens drowned in a sack/Everybody screaming sky turning black.”

On “David Shrigley’s Worried Noodles” (Tomlab), 39 acts turn his words into lyrics: for freak-folk contemplation, for richly hovering chamber-pop constructions, for music-hall whimsies, for wiry post-punk minimalism, for happily overstuffed computer collages and for twisted dance beats. Somehow Mr. Shrigley’s indecorous, not-so-naïve bluntness pushes them toward their best.

Don’t blame Shakira for the stiffness of the film “Love in the Time of Cholera,” based on the Gabriel García Márquez novel. As Colombia’s international sweetheart, she was the obvious choice to write songs for two crucial moments of the soundtrack (working with the score’s composer, Antonio Pinto), and in them she reaches for something vintage, acoustic, unadorned and brimming with tearful emotion. “Despedidas” sounds rural and Andean, with just guitars and drum and a six-beat rhythm; muted trumpets hint at some long-ago nightclub in “Hay Amores.” Separated from electric bands and flashy production, Shakira has never sounded more intimate. The songs are not on the album of Mr. Pinto’s score; they’re available through iTunes.

Nine Inch Nails’ remix album, “Y34RZ3R0R3M1X3D” (Halo/Interscope), is as much a taunt as a product. (That’s “Year Zero Remixed” in non-hacker typography.) Trent Reznor has made his usual canny selection of remixers for his songs of paranoia and subversion. Ladytron, the Faint, Epworth Phones, Pirate Robot Midget and Stephen Morris and Gillian Gilbert (from New Order) bring out dance beats. Bill Laswell, Fennesz and Stefan Goodchilde find different ways to extend the sinister ambience. Saul Williams raises the rant quotient; the Kronos Quartet juxtaposes elegance and screech. But the kicker is the second disc: elements of the songs, and software to remix them. Don’t like the remixes? Outdo them yourself.

At 84 the Dominican musician Puerto Plata sounds indefatigable. On “Mujer de Cabaret” (IASO), he plays guitar and sings old-fashioned Dominican sones, boleros and merengues in a voice that has seen its share of romance and trouble. He sings about perfidious women, about the countryside and, in “Los Piratas,” about Sept. 11. The accompaniment is unplugged and sparse: just a few guitars, voices and percussion. But the rhythms are taut and frisky, and they’re topped with spiky, stuttering leads from the requinto, a small, bright-sounding guitar that sends its countermelodies dancing merrily around Puerto Plata’s memories and advice.

Emma Pollock honed her songwriting over a decade as a member of the Delgados, a fondly remembered Scottish band that quietly dissolved after releasing its final album in 2004. Her clear voice and pop ambitions are undiminished on “Watch the Fireworks” (4 A.D.) She’s constantly tuneful in settings from ringing folk-rock to piano-pumped music hall to breathy ballad. Yet her perpetually graceful, uplifting music doesn’t come with a sugary worldview. The lyrics are full of ups and downs, hopes and disasters: “There is no rhyme or reason to this, a fault appears/With a gaping hollow under my feet I disappear,” she sings as the music surges in “Acid Test.” She knows that optimism can leave her bruised and disillusioned, but she keeps taking the plunge.
422 2007-12-16 In fact, it would be quite easy for managers to mislead investors in this way. Even when there is no intent to hoodwink the market, companies that announce buyback programs often do not commit to the exact number of shares that will be repurchased or even to buying back any shares at all. Instead, companies simply say that their buyback programs will proceed as conditions warrant. Investors would have a hard time detecting companies whose managers are being disingenuous.

After studying the question, Professor Ikenberry said, he believes that a large majority of companies that announce buyback programs do not have any intent to mislead. Along with three other researchers, he recently completed a paper, entitled “Share Repurchases as a Tool to Mislead Investors: Evidence From Earnings Quality and Stock Performance.” His co-authors in this study were three other finance professors: Konan Chan of the University of Hong Kong; Inmoo Lee of the National University of Singapore; and Yan-zhi Wang of Yuan Ze University in Taiwan.

Managerial intent cannot be measured directly, of course. So the professors focused instead on aspects of a company’s financial statements that they say will be more prevalent among businesses whose managers have a predisposition to mislead. The researchers focused particularly on what accountants call discretionary accruals — revenue or expense items about which managers have a relatively large amount of discretion in deciding not only when they appear on their companies’ books, but also their magnitude. A current example would be a bank’s determination of how much it should reduce its earnings in anticipation of future losses from the subprime mortgage mess.

Previous research has found that managers under extreme pressure to bolster their company’s stock price often make aggressive use of discretionary accruals. Their behavior isn’t necessarily illegal. But their accounting legerdemain typically has the desired effect for only brief periods. In the long term, such companies’ stocks tend to lag those of businesses that don’t make heavy use of discretionary accruals.

The professors reasoned that managers under pressure to increase their company’s stock price are likely to use all the tools in their arsenal. So if they were willing to mislead investors by inaugurating a bogus buyback program, it is probable that they will have also used discretionary accruals aggressively. Professor Ikenberry said he and his fellow researchers had found that, at most, only a “small minority” of companies that announced buyback programs from 1980 to 2000 had also made heavy use of discretionary accruals.

Though this doesn’t prove that the bulk of buyback programs were created without an intent to mislead, Professor Ikenberry said it is reasonable to make that inference. He cited another finding of the study to support this view: the stocks of buyback companies tend to perform much better over the long term when they don’t use discretionary accruals aggressively.

The researchers divided into two groups the companies that announced buyback programs from 1980 to 2000. The first contained those that took advantage of this accounting loophole; the second contained those that did not. The professors found that the stock of the average company in the first group enjoyed a short-term bounce after the announcement of its buyback program, but then fell back. In contrast, the stock of the average company in the second group not only had a short-term bounce, but also continued to outperform the market for several years after the buyback announcement.

PROFESSOR IKENBERRY says it’s unlikely that this finding would have emerged if more than a small minority of companies had started buyback programs with the intent to mislead.

Two investment implications emerge here. The first, according to Professor Ikenberry, is that the stock of the typical buyback company is likely to keep being a good bet to beat the market. The second is that investors who focus on the stocks of buyback companies would improve performance by paying attention to which ones make heavy use of discretionary accruals.
423 2007-12-16 In baseball, as in so many other sports these days, the greatest challenge for some is not the game — throwing or hitting a 96-mile-an-hour fastball, for example — it’s staying a Dixie cup ahead of the steroids police. Using masking agents. Using new, undetectable steroids. Using H.G.H. because there is no accepted test for it.

And even when there is an accepted test for H.G.H., don’t expect the union to agree to it without a fight, the way it fought Commissioner Bud Selig on steroids testing before finally surrendering to public and Congressional pressure.

And the way it fought the Mitchell report investigators.

According to the report, the union discouraged every active baseball player from talking with Mitchell or his investigators, rejected all requests for documents and permitted only one interview with Donald M. Fehr, its executive director.

Regarding H.G.H., Fehr said Thursday that if a valid urine test were developed, the union would adopt it, but that blood tests would be of “dubious or little practical value.” Fehr added that when “science catches up, we’ll look at what they have.”

Although a blood test to detect H.G.H. may be available in the spring, according to scientists informed about the progress of the test’s development, would Fehr accept it as foolproof?

Regarding a urine test for H.G.H., Dr. Don Catlin, a drug-testing pioneer who leads the Anti-Doping Research Institute in California, said in September that his research, which is financed by Major League Baseball and the National Football League Players Association, was making “little bits of progress every day” but that it was still years away from the success that he was hoping for.

Notice, please, that baseball’s players union is not among the financiers for a urine test of H.G.H.

Like it or not, H.G.H. is out there for any baseball player or world-class athlete to use without fear of being detected. And as long as there is no test, any baseball player or world-class athlete can deny accusations of having used it. Selig and Fehr pointed to only three flunked steroids tests this year as an indication that drug testing was working, But was the low number of failed tests influenced by H.G.H. becoming the performance-enhancer of choice?

Selig and Fehr have repeatedly tried to take credit for finally adopting testing in the steroids era that, according to the Mitchell report, began in 1988. But Selig didn’t take forceful action and Fehr wasn’t agreeable to it until 2002, after Ken Caminiti, the National League’s most valuable player in 1995 as the San Diego Padres’ third baseman, disclosed his use of steroids in a Sports Illustrated article. Caminiti died at age 41 of a drug overdose that included cocaine but not steroids on Oct. 10, 2004.

If not for Caminiti, who knows how long Selig and Fehr would have danced to a standstill over steroids? And if not for the Congressional hearings in 2005, who knows when the current suspensions of 50 games for a first flunked test, 100 for a second and a lifetime ban for a third would have been imposed?

And without a test for H.G.H., what’s to deter players from continuing or starting to enhance their performance that way? When Selig, Fehr and Mitchell appear at a Congressional hearing, the lawmakers should ask how they plan to cope with the ban on H.G.H., which is still a gun without any bullets.
424 2007-12-16 Six experts assess the current state and forecast the future direction of the American economy.

You Can Almost Hear It Pop, by Stephen S. Roach

The Facts Say No, by Marcelle Chauvet and Kevin Hassett

Bet the House on It, by Laura Tyson

Not if Exports Save Us, by Jason Furman

Nobody Knows, by James Grant
425 2007-12-16 Maybe it was the inescapable visions of the brutality inflicted on dogs in the wooded area behind the fence. Or maybe it was the glare of the news media spotlight.     Something kept Michael Vick's former dogfighting headquarters from selling at a...
426 2007-12-16 To the Editor:     Re ''Pay What You Want for This Article'' by Jon Pareles [Dec. 9]:...
427 2007-12-16 Mitt Romney, the Republican presidential candidate, ran campaign advertisements on television more frequently than any other candidate through mid-November, according to the television tracking company Nielsen. He ran his first TV advertisement in...
428 2007-12-16 Mitt Romney, the Republican presidential candidate, ran campaign advertisements on television more frequently than any other candidate through mid-November, according to the television tracking company Nielsen. He ran his first TV advertisement in...
429 2007-12-17 "I can tell you, I think it is an act of courage," John McCain said of his friend's decision to publicly back his campaign....
430 2007-12-17 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
431 2007-12-17 The Democratic candidate lists broad-based support in dealing with that "electability" question....
432 2007-12-17 What's up with all these tales of candidates and their canine companions?...
433 2007-12-17 Third Avenue Management, the money manager founded by value investor Martin J. Whitman, will reopen its $2.3 billion international fund to investors because the U.S. subprime crisis lowered prices and created buying opportunities. Third Avenue Int...
434 2007-12-17 German state lender KfW could lose more than 5 billion euros ($7.3 billion) due to its participation in the bailout of German bank IKB, the head of KfW, Ingrid Matthaeus-Maier, told the Sueddeutsche Zeitung daily. The bank has booked provisions of...
435 2007-12-17 Before lifting off in a helicopter from Council Bluffs, Mrs. Clinton, appearing re-energized, used new language to criticize the health care plan offered by her chief rival, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois.

In a hushed voice, she mentioned some of the women and men she had met in Iowa who did not have health insurance or were struggling financially and said she did not want to leave any of them without health care.

“Who gets to choose who’s left out?” she said. “Who should I leave out? I don’t want to leave anybody out. I’m not running for president to put Band-Aids on this problem. I’m running for president to solve it.”

Meanwhile, Mr. Obama continued on the third day of his bus tour, moving west across Iowa. He began his day by attending services at the First Congregational United Church of Christ in Mason City.

While it is not uncommon for Mr. Obama to attend church while campaigning, seldom is the stop on his public schedule. But this time — as his campaign worked to dispel false rumors spread on the Internet that he was a Muslim and had ulterior motives for running for president — he attended church with television cameras and reporters in tow.

In brief remarks to the congregation, Mr. Obama talked about his faith, saying that “Scripture and the words of God fit into the values I was raised in.”

Former Senator John Edwards of North Carolina, who stumped across Iowa this weekend with the actor and singer Kevin Bacon (who brought his guitar), managed to hold events on the ground and appear on three talk shows, via satellite. He has worked the state almost constantly since losing the 2004 election and is locked in a three-way race against Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama, but his tone has become an issue.

The Register, which endorsed him in 2004, said this time that it did not see much of the “positive, optimistic” campaign he had run before. “His harsh, anticorporate rhetoric would make it difficult to work with the business community to forge change,” the paper said.

Asked about it on the CBS program “Face the Nation,” Mr. Edwards said that corporate resistance had blocked universal health care, foiled efforts to address global warming, resulted in a tax policy for the rich and produced a trade policy that destroyed jobs.

“I think if we don’t have a president, you know, a Teddy Roosevelt kind of president or a Harry Truman kind of president who is ready to take those entrenched, well-financed interests on, it’s going to be impossible to bring about change,” Mr. Edwards said. “And it’s exactly what I am going to do as president. I’m going to fight for that change.”

As for the Republicans, two of them — former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts and former Senator Fred D. Thompson of Tennessee — turned their fire on Mike Huckabee, who has shot up in the polls. Mr. Romney demanded on “Meet the Press” on NBC that Mr. Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor, apologize to President Bush for what Mr. Huckabee described last week in an article in Foreign Affairs as “the Bush administration’s arrogant bunker mentality” at home and abroad.

Mr. Thompson, on “Face the Nation,” said of Mr. Huckabee, “Liberal is the only word that comes to mind.”

In response, Mr. Huckabee said on CNN that he had not said the president was arrogant. “I have said that the policies have been arrogant,” he said.

In his interview, Mr. Romney said he had been endorsed by the National Rifle Association in 2002 when he ran for governor of Massachusetts. He had been given a grade of B by the group, but his Democratic opponent got an A and the group did not endorse anyone in that race.

In addition, he was grilled about his Mormon faith. Asked whether he had struggled with the fact that his church excluded blacks from its priesthood until 1978, Mr. Romney said that he supported civil rights and remembered hearing about the change in policy on the radio while he was driving. “I pulled over, and literally wept,” he said. “Even to this day it’s emotional,” he said, tearing up.
436 2007-12-17 The Senate is ducking its responsibility to keep the Federal Election Commission stocked with qualified appointees to police the already booming election season. If a nasty partisan standoff is not soon resolved, the six-member regulatory panel could be left with just two commissioners remaining and unable to work. This is a ridiculous prospect — and an invitation to even more scheming and corner-cutting — in what is sure to be a multibillion-dollar campaign.

At the heart of the problem is President Bush’s misbegotten choice for the commission of Hans von Spakovsky, a fiercely partisan Republican, notorious for his anti-voting-rights bias as a Justice Department appointee. Mr. Spakovsky supported Republican initiatives gerrymandering the Texas Legislature and mandating photo IDs in a Georgia law transparently aimed at disenfranchising minority voters. Career Justice lawyers resigned in protest of his extremism.

President Bush circumvented the Senate confirmation process, using a recess appointment to force Mr. Spakovsky temporarily onto the F.E.C. this year. His appointment and two other recess appointments lapse with the new year. Joined with an additional vacancy, the commission will not have a quorum. Meanwhile, the Democratic and Republican leaders are deadlocked, holding up each other’s appointees to a panel that is required to be evenly bipartisan, three to three.

If merit or sense carried the day, the president would scratch Mr. Spakovsky, who is not the right choice for the job. He hasn’t, and the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell, is standing by the White House’s man. If Mr. McConnell and Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, can’t negotiate a solution, Mr. Reid should put the issue to a floor fight. This would spotlight what a party hack the Republicans want for a commission that is supposed to keep electoral politics clean and fair.
437 2007-12-17 His sales have been off for much of the year, he said. Despite his store’s name, he has not restocked his paint inventory, since people are hardly buying any. Business has slacked off so much, he spends his days remodeling the store, building new wooden display shelves in hopes of generating more sales from those customers who do venture inside.

“This is affecting everybody,” he said. “Ask anybody around here: Business is very bad.”

Housing advocates have been too busy trying to deal with the ever-growing numbers of panicked homeowners to gauge the collateral damage from the lending crisis. But many of them are not surprised that it is beginning to take a toll on the larger community.

“On the street level, there are signs of deferred maintenance,” said Sarah Gerecke, the chief executive of Neighborhood Housing Services of New York City, a nonprofit group that counsels homeowners. “People can’t afford to fix screen doors, keep up their roof or yards. Neighborhoods that used to be spotless now show signs that owners can’t afford to keep up their homes.”

In some cases they cannot even work up the money to furnish their homes. Few customers have visited Boston Road Furniture, despite a handwritten come-on taped to the window that promises anyone can “Get Up to $3,000 Instantly No Job No Credit Check.”

Marcus St. Marie, the store’s owner, remembers when West Indian immigrants like him would flock to local stores.

“You come to this country, and what is the first thing you look for?” he asked. “A home. And then the furniture.”

Sales have been so bad since March, he said, that he has laid off four of his store’s five employees. He has no idea how much longer he can hang on.

“We need a government loan,” he said. “This country is falling apart. We need customers. We need some help. So many ‘For Sale’ signs in this neighborhood. People just have to leave their homes and run.”

About the only place that has a steady stream of clients is the local office of Neighborhood Housing Services, where Theresa Ortiz offers advice on how to prevent foreclosure or soften its blow. The calls begin pretty much when the office opens, and everyone pitches in, regardless of job title.

Her office sits amid a strip of storefronts, some recent casualties of the loan debacle. On one side is a shuttered furniture store. On the other is a vacant office topped by a sign advertising easy mortgages and houses with no money down.

This is not an easy time of year, as people trudge into Ms. Ortiz’s office carrying sheaves of financial documents. Sometimes the tears come before the words. Often, the story is the same: A friend from church or work suggested they refinance their home, or insisted they could help them buy their first home. Within a few years, they are facing Ms. Ortiz, frantic and frightened.

The luckiest ones are able to work out a deal with the lenders and save their homes. Others, she said, are lucky if they can sell their houses and retain what little equity they have left.

In the rush of cases in recent years, she has seen parents juggle two or three jobs in an attempt to keep their homes. One woman, she said, sent her 10-year-old son to live with relatives in Jamaica while she worked two jobs to stave off foreclosure.

“She did not want to leave him at home while she worked, because then child welfare would have stepped in,” Ms. Ortiz said. “This is interfering with the quality of people’s lives and the nuclear family. Who wants that kind of life in order to keep a roof over your head?”

Other housing advocates asking the same questions have begun to look toward Wall Street for part of the answer. They note how investment banks made tidy profits and bonuses in recent years by scooping up batches of subprime loans to back lucrative securities.

“They were telling lenders what kinds of loans to make,” said Kevin Connor, the author of a recent report on Wall Street’s role in the subprime crisis, sponsored by a coalition of housing advocacy groups. “They built this house of cards on the backs of homeowners.”

Despite the losses taken by investments banks in recent months, housing advocates say that banking executives will still get their bonuses this year, and even chief executives who lost their jobs because of the mortgage losses walked away with multimillion-dollar severance packages.

So some have proposed a new investment for Wall Street bonuses: an emergency fund that would help homeowners in distress. James Mumm, a housing advocate from the Bronx, said $10,000 could help one homeowner refinance to an affordable, fixed-rate mortgage.

“These guys made millions in bonuses, so they go off and buy Rolexes or real estate while people are being put out on the street,” said Mr. Mumm, who is the executive director of the Northwest Bronx Community and Clergy Coalition. “Now the homeowners are asking for their money back. This is about reparations.”

Despite the warnings and the horror stories — or even bitter personal experience — some homeowners find themselves still being courted by mortgage brokers eager to get them to refinance.

“You should see my answering machine,” said Israel Vazquez, a Police Department employee who has already refinanced his home once since he bought it two years ago. “All these mortgage companies are still leaving me messages. They all say they can get a deal for me. I don’t trust any of them.”

For good reason. When a financial squeeze forced him to refinance last year, he traded a $505,000 30-year fixed mortgage at 5.6 percent for two subprime loans totaling more than $600,000 with adjustable interest rates that will go up to 10 percent or more next year. He has not missed any payments, but the monthly installments he can afford to pay are so low that he now owes more than when he began.

Though he was a lifelong renter, his wife always dreamed of having a house. She died 11 years ago, of asthma.

“She died in my arms,” he said. “She was the best thing that ever happened to me. You know what, she was too good for me.”

“Don’t ever say that,” she insisted.

His children, he said, persuaded him to buy the house, to honor his wife’s wishes.

“This is sinking me,” he admitted. “I just want to get it together.”
438 2007-12-17 James Kingston shot a one-under 71 to beat Oliver Wilson by one stroke at the South African Open on Sunday.Kingston, of South Africa, finished at four-under 284 as darkness set in after an earlier rain delay at the Pearl Valley Golf Estates course in Paarl. Greg Norman shot a 71 and finished tied for seventh. Ernie Els had a 69 to finish in a tie for 16th with Retief Goosen, who shot a 75.
439 2007-12-17 This year, the Saudis increased the quota for Russian pilgrims to 26,000 people from 20,000, and despite estimated costs of $2,000 to $3,000 a person for the trip, Mr. Abbyasov said all visas allotted for this year had been claimed. Chechnya is sending about 3,000 pilgrims for the five-day pilgrimage, which starts this week.

“This year, because of religious consciousness, the end of violence in the North Caucasus, and in Chechnya in particular, and the current growth of people’s well-being, people can just allow themselves to do this,” said Abdul-Vakhed Niyazov, president of the Islamic Cultural Center of Russia.

Muslims who are financially and physically able are required to perform the hajj at least once in their lives, though many believe that a relative can complete the pilgrimage on behalf of someone who died or is chronically ill.

Islam, like Orthodox Christianity, is in a state of revival here after years of confinement to the kitchens and basements of the Soviet Union, which severely restricted the open practice of all religions.

Russia has about 4,000 mosques now, compared with about 90 in the waning days of the Soviet Union. In Moscow, Muslim groceries and other stores selling Muslim fashions have appeared, and the first hospital catering to Muslims opened this month.

Fourteen million to 23 million Muslims live in this country of about 140 million people, making Islam the largest minority religion. They live mostly in the Caucasus and in two autonomous republics, Tatarstan and Bashkortostan; there are also about two million Muslims living in Moscow.

The Kremlin has worked to facilitate the pilgrimage, part of a strategy to ward off potential unrest among the country’s Muslims and monitor their activities, while also improving ties with Saudi Arabia, where Russia has budding economic interests. When President Vladimir V. Putin visited Saudi Arabia in February — the first Russian leader to do so in decades — his lobbying efforts helped persuade the Saudis to raise the quotas for Russian Muslims this year.

At a meeting with Russia’s Muslim leaders in November, Mr. Putin pledged continued government assistance for the hajj.

The government has created a liaison office that offers pilgrims help with visas and transportation, and the state airline, Aeroflot, often gives pilgrims special rates. The government has also set up a $60 million fund to support Islamic culture, science and education, part of which is designated for state-accredited Muslim schools and universities.

The government is nevertheless concerned that its citizens could be exposed to extremist forms of Islam while on the hajj, and some analysts, including Evgeny Y. Satanovskiy, president of the Institute of Middle Eastern Studies in Moscow, say that government assistance to the pilgrims belies attempts to track their activities.

“We know that Saudi Arabia invests in the propaganda of the Saudi Arabian-style Islam, the Wahhabi-style Islam, much more than the whole Soviet Union for the whole Soviet history spent on the propaganda of the Communist ideology,” Mr. Satanovskiy said.

Most Muslims — with the exception of some extremists in the North Caucasus — are highly integrated into Russian society, and many government officials and Muslim leaders worry that an influx of more conservative or even radical Islamic beliefs from places like Saudi Arabia could whip up discord.

The Russian press has reported recently that many security service personnel are among this year’s pilgrims, evidence, some say, of a government effort to supervise Russian citizens while they are in Saudi Arabia. Officials and hajj organizers have denied that this is the case.

For now, the biggest problem the government has with the hajj is dealing with complaints by Saudi officials that Russian pilgrims are smuggling contraband into and out of the country, said Andrei E. Severtsov, who is in charge of the Department for Communications with Religious Organizations, a government body that mediates on religious matters and provides assistance to pilgrims. Most often, he said, the culprits are from the relatively poor North Caucasus, where porous borders make smuggling easy and profitable. Last year, several were arrested trying to transport nearly a ton of bottled water.

Most often, however, the Saudis and other Muslims gathered in Mecca for the hajj react to Russians with curiosity, Mr. Abbyasov said.

“A good many people are surprised that there are Muslims in Russia,” he said.
440 2007-12-17 To bolster its case, the coalition quotes Joseph T. Kelliher, the commission chairman, who has said that properly designed markets produce inherently just and reasonable prices. The petition quotes him as saying that the “legal duty of the commission to prevent unjust and unreasonable rates” is “absolute.”

The petition, citing “detailed empirical analysis,” says that some companies that own both utilities and generating stations that sell power into the wholesale markets are earning returns far beyond those of other industries with similar risks.

The petition does not identify the companies, but previous official reports have identified Exelon, Constellation Energy and TXU Energy as among those making the biggest profits from the wholesale markets.

These companies own both utilities that distribute power to customers and generating plants that were removed from the regulated system and now sell power into the wholesale markets. Because of the design of the auction markets, they sometimes collect as much as $990 a megawatt hour for power that they had offered to sell for $1 or even give away.

John E. Shelk, president and chief executive of the Electric Power Supply Association, which represents companies that generate power sold in the wholesale markets, said Saturday that in two earlier proceedings the customers “didn’t put on a convincing case” that they had been overcharged.

To the contrary, Mr. Shelk said, prices “aren’t high enough to cover the costs of a new gas peaker, much less the billions more” needed to justify building more plants to meet the base load demand for power. He said in places where prices are high, a primary cause is reliance on natural gas, a costly fuel, to generate power during peak demand.

Sue Kelly, general counsel of the American Public Power Association, which represents municipally owned electric utilities, said she partly agreed.

“In some cases, the marginal prices in the market are too low and in others, they are too high,” she said, saying this showed that the markets are badly designed.

“A core problem is that some of the big integrated companies got their nuclear and coal plants out of the regulated system at very, very low prices and are now making money hand over fist by selling power back to their regulated utility arms,” she said.

John P. Hughes, the economist for the electricity consumers council, said the markets created a perverse incentive, rewarding power plant owners with ever-higher prices so long as they did not build new capacity to meet growing demand.

The petition says the markets are based on false assumptions, including that the transmission grid can deal with the mismatch between where power is generated and where it is used. The result was that the wholesale markets produce prices “consistently higher than rates in regulated markets” and rising faster.
441 2007-12-17 HONG KONG (Reuters) — China Eastern Airlines intends to buy 40 Airbus A320 aircraft under an agreement signed between France and China and is in talks for 40 Boeing 737s to expand its domestic and regional routes, its chairman said Monday.

But the executive, Li Fenghua, who was in Hong Kong to persuade investors to back a $920 million deal to sell a 24 percent stake to Singapore Airlines and Temasek Holdings, said China Eastern had no plans to buy Airbus’s A380 superjumbo.

Mr. Li said many Chinese airlines were flying with empty seats on long-haul routes. “Chinese airlines’ international routes have seen operating losses using their current planes. If we buy A380s, losses will deepen,” Mr. Li said.

China Eastern has applied to Beijing to buy 40 single-aisle A320 planes under a framework deal for an order of 160 Airbus passenger jets worth $16.7 billion signed in November.

So far, the only order announced under the agreement was with China Southern Airlines, which is buying 10 twin-aisle A330 aircraft for $1.8 billion at list price. Shanghai Airlines has said it is seeking to buy 10 single-aisle A320 planes.

Mr. Li said the new planes would be used to consolidate and expand China Eastern’s domestic routes as well as routes to Japan and South Korea.

Based on its current order schedule, China Eastern’s fleet would increase by 53 percent, to 322 aircraft in 2010, from 210 now.
442 2007-12-17 The premier bridge event in Britain is the Gold Cup. The final, played on Dec. 9 at the Peebles Hydro Hotel in Scotland, was won by Alexander Allfrey, David Bakhshi, Andrew Robson and Tony Forrester. Their opponents — Paul Bowyer, Duncan Happer, Ben Green, Jim Mason, Dick Pathan and Nick Stevens — conceded defeat after 48 of the 64 scheduled boards, down 126 international match points to 28.

The tone for the match was set by Board 1, the diagramed deal.

The first seven calls were identical at both tables, North’s double being negative suggesting length in the minors. (North might have responded four clubs, but double was more flexible, keeping open the options of three spades doubled and three no-trump.)

At the other table, Forrester (North) contented himself with a raise to five diamonds. Mason (West) led his singleton club, Bakhshi (South) winning on the board with the eight. Declarer played a spade to his king and tried to cash the club ace, but West ruffed. On the spade return to dummy’s ace, South threw a heart. Declarer cashed dummy’s diamond ace, ruffed a club in his hand, played a diamond to dummy’s king, ruffed another club, took the heart ace, ruffed a heart on the board and played winning clubs. East could take his diamond jack whenever he wished. Bakhshi lost only two trump tricks.

The stakes were higher where Happer (North) and Green pushed into six diamonds.

Robson led his singleton club, dummy again taking the trick with the eight. Declarer cashed dummy’s diamond ace, played a diamond to his queen and led the club ace, West discarding the spade queen. South continued with a diamond to dummy’s king, giving this position: (Left, Diagram 1)

What should declarer have done now?

Green led the club queen from the board, which was fatal. Allfrey (East) covered with his king, and South discarded a heart. East shifted to a heart, declarer winning with his ace and ruffing a heart on the board. But whatever South did next, he had to lose another trick.
443 2007-12-17 Late Sunday, though, Mr. Lee’s seemingly assured victory was challenged by President Roh Moo-hyun, who instructed the justice ministry to reopen an investigation into accusations that Mr. Lee had been involved in manipulating the stock of an investment company, BBK. On Sunday morning, a video clip had surfaced in which Mr. Lee, who has denied any involvement with the company, appears to be claiming to have founded it in 2000.

On Monday morning, the justice ministry, which had cleared Mr. Lee of the charges this month, said it stood by its earlier judgment.

Mr. Lee’s spokesman, Kim Heon-jin, said Monday that Mr. Roh’s move had been politically motivated and that “possible editing” had been done to the video.

It was not clear how the president’s reopening of the investigation would affect Mr. Lee, whose approval ratings had suffered only slightly in the weeks before he was cleared by prosecutors. Barring a last-minute reversal, Mr. Lee, 65, is likely to be elected to succeed Mr. Roh, who is limited by the Constitution to a single five-year term.

Five years ago, Mr. Roh, a human rights lawyer and a former lawmaker, won with a message of asserting independence from the United States, reconciling with North Korea and emphasizing social equality, but his ratings have fallen because of popular discontent over his economic policies.

In his campaign appearances, Mr. Lee, the candidate for the conservative Grand National Party, capitalized on that anger, as he attacked the Roh administration and presented himself as the candidate best qualified to handle the economy.

“I will create a world where young people can choose good jobs,” Mr. Lee said to a raucous crowd at a market in the southeastern city of Taegu last week. “To people selling things, those running small- and medium-size companies, I will create a world that works. I will unfailingly revive the economy.”

Mr. Lee’s agenda for accomplishing that mission ranges from the orthodox, like lowering corporate taxes, to the grandiose, like building a huge canal to connect two rivers and form a unified shipping route from the southwest to the northeast. He has also pledged to realize what he calls his “Korea 747 Vision” — increasing economic growth to 7 percent a year, doubling per capita income, to $40,000, within a decade and moving the country’s economy, now the world’s 13th biggest, to the seventh largest.

The message has resonated in a country increasingly squeezed between high-tech Japan and low-cost China. While multinationals like Samsung are doing well, small- and medium-size businesses find it increasingly difficult to compete against counterparts outside the country because of rising labor costs. While the stock market is booming, economic growth has slowed. Soaring real estate prices have made housing unaffordable for average Koreans, and youth unemployment remains high.

Although many of the economic difficulties lie beyond the control of any president, voters blame Mr. Roh for the malaise.

Mr. Roh ended up losing even his most ardent supporters — young voters who, in 2002, were attracted to his image as a reformer and rallied for him on the Internet and on the streets.

“I was very excited in 2002 but feel that he didn’t accomplish much in the economy,” said Lee Jong-youl, 32, an office worker browsing in a bookstore in downtown Seoul on Wednesday. “For someone in the middle class or lower, like me, I feel that income gaps have widened.”

Mr. Lee said he had barely followed this election and was undecided about whom to support, but he added that the front-runner was “not bad.”

Yoon Yae-young, 31, a graduate student, was not supporting Mr. Lee but explained why others were. “The young believe that he’ll revive the economy and create jobs,” Mr. Yoon said. “They blame Roh Moo-hyun for everything. There’s a joke that even when something bad happened in your personal life, you blamed Roh Moo-hyun.”

Mr. Roh was so unpopular that members of his Uri Party created a new party, the United New Democratic Party, in an effort to disassociate themselves from him. Still, the new party’s candidate, Chung Dong-young, 54, ranks a distant second in polls.

Mr. Lee’s focus on bread-and-butter issues stands in sharp contrast to that of Mr. Roh and his predecessor, Kim Dae-jung, both of whom had the clear objectives of democratizing South Korean society and reconciling with North Korea.

Mr. Lee supports engaging North Korea and promises substantial economic assistance if it abandons its nuclear arms program. But he does not make emotional appeals to Korean unity, as Mr. Roh did, and takes a harder rhetorical line by insisting that he will not shy away from taking tough measures against North Korea.

“Lee Myung-bak is perceived as being much more of a pragmatist than an ideologue,” said Lee Nae-young, a political scientist at Korea University who has been conducting opinion polls on the election. “He appeals to the general public because his views are perceived as being closest to the general public’s views.”

Since the last presidential election, he said, Korean public opinion had shifted to the center while the left and right has shrunk. Seoul’s policy toward North Korea has not come to the fore as an issue in this election because differences between conservatives and liberals have narrowed considerably since 2002, he added, and a general consensus over the engagement policy has emerged.

Indeed, Mr. Lee’s Grand National Party itself has moved toward the center. In the 2002 and 1997 elections, it selected as its standard-bearer Lee Hoi-chang, a right-wing politician with a hard-line stance against North Korea.

Last month, Lee Hoi-chang, 72, unexpectedly declared his candidacy, this time as an independent, saying he was displeased with the front-runner’s policy toward North Korea.

“Lee Myung-bak’s policy toward North Korea is a copycat of the sunshine policy,” Lee Hae-yon, a spokeswoman for Lee Hoi-chang, said of the engagement policy toward the North. “Our candidate believes that the main goals should be to denuclearize North Korea and for its regime to change.”

Lee Hoi-chang trails, in third place. But analysts say he could eke out a few points on Wednesday and rob the front-runner of his goal of winning more than 50 percent of the popular vote.
444 2007-12-17 Heineken USA, White Plains, named Wieden & Kennedy, Portland, Ore., to create English-language campaigns for its Heineken and Heineken Premium Light beer brands, which had been handled by Berlin Cameron United, New York, part of the United unit of the WPP Group. Spending was estimated at more than $100 million. The Vidal Partnership, New York, continues to create Spanish-language campaigns.

Royal Caribbean International, Miami, part of Royal Caribbean Cruises, selected a team of WPP Group agencies to handle its account, with spending estimated at $90 million, replacing agencies owned by Havas. JWT will take over the creative duties from Arnold Worldwide, and MindShare will take over the media duties from MPG.

The IHOP Corporation, Glendale, Calif., chose VitroRobertson, San Diego, part of MDC Partners, to handle the creative account of the International House of Pancakes chain, which had been at the Los Angeles office of McCann Erickson Worldwide, part of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Spending was estimated at $80 million.

American Legacy Foundation, Washington, consolidated the creative duties for its “Truth” antismoking campaign aimed at teenagers at Arnold Worldwide, Boston, part of the Arnold Worldwide Partners unit of Havas. The duties had been shared since 1999 by Arnold and Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Miami, part of MDC Partners, which originated the “Truth” concept for ads in Florida in 1998. The consolidation comes as spending for the campaign had declined to about $35 million this year from $90 million in 2003.
445 2007-12-17 His quest to draw independents may be complicated this time around by antiwar candidates like Senator Barack Obama and even Ron Paul, the libertarian Republican who has raised millions on the Internet.

Beyond the struggle to draw independents, who might be more inclined to cast their votes in a competitive Democratic race, Mr. McCain also has to work to bring in fiscal conservatives who have been drawn to Mr. Romney’s economic message. To that end, Mr. McCain will give a speech in New Hampshire on Tuesday that will focus on issues that he believes are on the front of voters’ minds: the mortgage crisis, the shrinking value of the dollar and out-of-control spending.

The McCain campaign believes a number of factors are coalescing in their favor in the closing weeks of the campaign.

The rise of former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee has forced Mr. Romney to concentrate on Iowa and spend valuable resources there. It has also refocused attention on Mr. Romney’s own shifting views on social issues after months of touting himself as the best candidate to lead so-called values voters.

Meanwhile, Rudolph W. Giuliani has started to pull resources out of New Hampshire, a development that the McCain camp sees as an opportunity to peel off his supporters, which they believe lean their way.

Mr. McCain is comfortable enough with his position that he will talk openly about the problems his campaign faced this summer, calling it a “terrible” time. Since then, however, he has worked steadily, and often without much attention, to rebuild his network here.

In a clear attempt to build on the attention that resulted from the Lieberman endorsement, Mr. McCain held a news conference at the New Hampshire Political Library in Concord to announce a coalition of some 300 independent voters who would be working for his campaign.

“You run in the primary like you run for governor,” said Mike Dennehy, Mr. McCain’s campaign director in New Hampshire. That means lots of personal contact.

Mr. McCain has been campaigning in New Hampshire more aggressively than any of his rivals. Instead of popping in and out for one-day visits as Mr. Romney and Mr. Giuliani did Monday, he is holding multi-day bus tours that build their own momentum.

Usually, Mr. McCain is a bit subdued at early-morning events, but he was fired up even more than usual Monday.

At the town hall meeting where Mr. Lieberman announced his support, Mr. McCain was in a fiery mood, ribbing Adam Kowalski, 19, for wearing a Santa Claus hat: “You look kind of dorky in the hat.”

Mr. Kowalski took it in good humor and, in an interview after the session, he sounded like many of the voters showing up at McCain town hall events these days.

“I like his honesty,” he said, noting that he had a bit of a different impression of Mr. McCain from a distance. “Hearing him speak is completely different.”

An independent voter, Mr. Kowalski said he still had to make up his mind but was now leaning Mr. McCain’s way. He is the only Republican he can envision supporting.

Often, independent voters will say they are trying to decide between Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain. At first blush, it seems incongruous because they could not be more different on the issues.

But Mr. Lieberman, asked about why that might be, said he thought it was because they both represent change.
446 2007-12-17 WEAK CLOTHING SALES Sales of women's clothing, a traditional measure of the holiday shopping economy, are unusually weak so far this year, according to a major credit card company.      Kmart made a generation of bargain hunters react like starvin...
447 2007-12-18 A table-setter into Jewish people’s love for Chinese food, including the sociological implications. Don’t fill up on so many appetizers that you won’t have room for the main course....
448 2007-12-18 The Landmarks Preservation Commission voted to designate Dumbo, Brooklyn, as a historic district because of its connection to the industrial heritage of New York’s waterfront....
449 2007-12-18 Aha. I ran across an old Calculated Risk post that tells us what we're in for. It compared the rise in the price-rent ratio during the Los Angeles housing bubble of the late 1980s with the rise in the United States as a whole as of mid-2005; they ...
450 2007-12-18 How readers fared solving the "Which Came First?" mystery....
451 2007-12-18 The State Department is looking into an incident in which one of its security contractors killed a dog at The New York Times's offices in Baghdad during a precautionary sweep of the compound for explosives....
452 2007-12-18 We'd better lock the barn door! This story should be read in tandem with the excellent Ed Andrews piece, Fed shrugged as subprime crisis spread. Update:OK, the WSJ has figured it out - like everything bad in America, the housing bubble was Bill Cl...
453 2007-12-18 Traveling with the Republican candidate as his campaign gets a lift along the road....
454 2007-12-18 The Republican candidate continues to scoop up endorsements....
455 2007-12-18 NetSuite's stock sale, expected later this week, is one of the most anticipated offerings coming out of Silicon Valley. And it just got bigger. The company, controlled by Larry Ellison, the chief executive of Oracle, on Tuesday raised the expected...
456 2007-12-18 The investigation by securities regulators and federal prosecutors into this summer's collapse of two Bear Stearns hedge funds that invested in risky securities backed by subprime mortgages is reportedly heating up. According to BusinessWeek, the ...
457 2007-12-18 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
458 2007-12-18 “Our goal is to promote responsible mortgage lending, for the benefit of individual consumers and the economy,” the Fed’s chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said. “We want consumers to make decisions about home mortgage options confidently, with assurances that unscrupulous home mortgage practices will not be tolerated.”

The plan includes provisions that would require more extensive disclosures, restrict advertising and make it harder to lend to borrowers with little or no documentation and a questionable ability to repay. It would also allow borrowers, in some circumstances, to sue lenders who violate the rules.

The Fed acted under provisions of the Truth in Lending Act and the Home Ownership Equity Protection Act of 1994. In the past it had been quite cautious about using its authority to clamp down, and the rules had last been revised in 2001.

Details of the proposed rules, which could take effect next year after a period for public comment and possible revisions, can be read on the Fed’s Web site, www.federalreserve.gov.

“Unfair and deceptive practices have harmed consumers and the integrity of the home mortgage market,” a Fed governor, Randall S. Kroszner, said. “We have listened closely and developed a response to abuses that we believe will facilitate responsible lending.”

The action puts the Fed a step ahead of Congress, which is considering its own steps to tighten restrictions on the home loan industry. A bill put forward by Representative Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat and chairman of the House Banking Committee, would expose mortgage brokers and lenders to legal liability if borrowers are unable to repay.

The Fed did not go as far as proposals by some consumer groups, which sought, for example, an outright ban on prepayment penalities.

What the Fed has been hearing in recent months is a complex blend of personal hardship and dire news for the nation as a whole, as waves of foreclosures have swamped the housing market and threatened to mire the economy in a recession. The housing boom of the first several years of the decade seems almost as distant as the boom in technology stocks — but economists have warned that the fallout from the housing slump could be much worse than that from the “dot com” bubble.

Many home-buyers whose little slice of the American dream has turned into a nightmare were undone by “teaser rates” dangled in front of “balloon mortgages.” When the tempting original rates were supplanted by much higher rates built into the loan, many homeowners could not make the monthly payments.

But those personal misfortunes — whether the result of individual misjudgment, excessive optimism, shady lending or all of those — have mushroomed into a national problem, further complicated by the packaging and reselling of mortgages in ways that are so arcane that even some bankers acknowledge they are befuddled by them.
459 2007-12-18 For big Western companies, the prevalence of former Federal Security Service agents in Russian business is raising questions of ethics and due diligence, as a growing number — including Boeing, Exxon Mobil and Renault — have business transactions with Russian companies linked to former spies or members of the political police.

Boeing and Exxon declined to comment on their companies’ due-diligence criteria for deals with former K.G.B. officials. A spokeswoman for Renault said her company was “not concerned” with the matter.

“We look at AvtoVaz as an interesting partner,” the spokeswoman, Olga S. Sergeyeva, said, referring to Russia’s largest carmaker, “so we work with the people who manage the factory. That person is Chemezov.” Sergei V. Chemezov, chairman of the state-run Russian Technology, is a former K.G.B. agent who served with Mr. Putin in the east German city of Dresden in the 1980s.

“Very creepy” was how one European manager of an equity fund invested in Russia described his dealings with the leadership of a company run by former security service officers. He did not want to be identified making the assessment because he wants to do business with the companies.

There is nothing illegal about such dealings, and Russia is an attractive emerging market. The country has drawn $45 billion in Western capital so far this year. And as Mr. Shvartsman’s foray into Silicon Valley, presumably in search of investment opportunities for his funds, showed, Russians are also stepping up their investment abroad of tens of billions of dollars, part of the country’s windfall from high oil prices.

It could also be argued that the role former members of the intelligence services play in business here is similar to the outsize role the Chinese Army plays in businesses there.

Currently serving security service employees are prohibited from working outside the service, according to Gennadi V. Gudkov, a member of parliament and a former K.G.B. agent.

Only, according to an old Russian axiom, no one ever leaves the service. Mr. Putin himself said in his 2000 presidential campaign, using a post-1917 revolution name for K.G.B. precursors, that “there is no such thing as a former Chekist.”

In the interview published in the newspaper Kommersant, Mr. Shvartsman described other fund investors as “not the leadership of the presidential administration, but members of their families.” And he boasted that his ties to the secret police helped his company, the FinansGroup, buy businesses in Russia at knock-down prices because business owners, he said, “know where we come from.”

Mr. Shvartsman suggested that he had F.S.B. backing for corporate raiding, a term that is often more than just a figure of speech in Russia’s bare-knuckle business world.

The assertions sent ripples through business circles here, though the Kremlin spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, dismissed Mr. Shvartsman’s statements as “absolutely untrue.”

Still, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and a leading Israeli bank, Tamir Fishman, pulled out of a deal with Mr. Shvartsman to create the Tamir Fishman Russia Venture Capital Fund.

Just last week, Renault signed a memorandum of understanding to buy 25 percent of AvtoVaz, and manage it in partnership with Mr. Chemezov’s Russian Technology.

To be sure, intelligence agency officials have become businessmen in other countries, too. The first President Bush was director of central intelligence in the 1970s and, more recently, a senior adviser to the Carlyle Group, a private equity firm, until 2004. And some Western businessmen here say that the K.G.B., with its language training and networking opportunities for the young and ambitious, is a good school for international business.

Aleksandr Y. Lebedev, a Russian airline tycoon whose estimated worth is $3.5 billion, was a K.G.B. agent in London in the late 1980s.

In an interview, Mr. Lebedev said that seeing the great gap in economic development between the West and the Soviet Union in the 1980s made reformers of some in his generation of Soviet spies. Thus, the characterization of the K.G.B. as an inherently reactive force is a misperception, he said, and it should not be surprising that former agents became free-market enthusiasts. Last month, the Russian edition of Smart Money magazine published a cover article proclaiming, “The K.G.B. Is better Than an M.B.A.”

In Russia, there may be some logic to that reasoning. Boeing is buying titanium for its new 787 Dreamliner jet from a company run by Mr. Chemezov. Exxon Mobil is a partner in a Sakhalin Island oil development with Rosneft, a huge Russian energy company whose chairman, Igor I. Sechin, is a former intelligence officer. Mr. Sechin is also Mr. Putin’s deputy chief of staff.

One son of the Federal Security Service director, Nikolai Patrushev, worked at the state foreign trade bank, the VTB Group, and another worked at Rosneft.

Sergei B. Ivanov, a first deputy prime minister and former K.G.B. agent who served in London, is chairman of the state aircraft-making monopoly. His son was vice president of Gazprombank, the banking arm of the Russian natural gas monopoly.

“Due diligence has become something of a headache sorting this all out,” a Western business consultant, who did not want to be further identified criticizing the Kremlin, said.

And Yevgenia M. Albats, author of a 1994 book on the K.G.B., “The State Within a State,” said, “The F.S.B. is no longer just a police organization, it is a business.”

In exchange for loyalty, Mr. Putin has allowed top F.S.B. officials to tap business opportunities in Russia’s oil-boom economy by acquiring stakes in companies in oil, telecommunications, retailing and finance.

“The problem is, this business has the power of violence,” Ms. Albats said. “It has troops and intelligence equipment.”

Whether the security service will retain its power remains to be seen. Last week, Mr. Putin endorsed Dmitri A. Medvedev, the other first deputy prime minister, to be Russia’s next president, a step that most here assume makes Mr. Medvedev’s choice a certainty. Mr. Medvedev has no known background in the security services.

After the publication of his interview, Mr. Shvartsman asserted that the Kommersant journalist, Maksim Kvasha, had used “literary license” in transcribing his statement, though he did not take back any of the specifics. In an interview on Echo of Moscow radio, he said the journalist should “drink poison.”
460 2007-12-18 “We have been taking steps to ensure that our agents are safe,” he said.

In October, agents in California and Arizona received compressed-air guns that shoot pepper-spray canisters more than 200 feet. (Agents already had less powerful launchers, which lose their punch after about 30 feet.) Border Patrol SWAT teams along the 1,952-mile border are also equipped with tear gas, “flash bombs” that emit blinding light and “sting ball” grenades that disperse hundreds of tiny rubber pellets.

United States officials say the new tactics may spare lives. In March, an agent shot and killed a 20-year-old Mexican man whose arm was cocked; that fatality occurred in Calexico, Calif., where attacks with stones have soared. And two years ago, an agent fatally shot a stone thrower at the San Diego-Tijuana border.

Mexico’s acting consul general in San Diego, Ricardo Pineda Albarrán, has insisted that United States authorities stop firing onto Mexican soil. Mr. Pineda met with Border Patrol officials last month after the agency fired tear gas into Mexico. The agency defended that action, saying agents were being hit with a hail of ball bearings from slingshots in Mexico.

United States officials say the violence indicates that smugglers are growing more desperate as increased security makes it harder to sneak across the border. The assailants try to distract agents long enough to let people dash into the United States.

The leader of a union representing Border Patrol employees said the violence also resulted from a decision to put agents right up against the border, a departure from the early 1990s, when they waited farther back to make arrests.

“When you get that close to the fence, your agents are sitting ducks,” said T. J. Bonner, president of the union, the National Border Patrol Council.

Border Patrol agents were attacked 987 times along the border during the 12-month period that ended Sept. 30, the agency said. That was up 31 percent over the previous year and was the highest number since the agency began recording attacks in the late 1990s.

Agent Joseph Ralph estimates that he has been struck by stones 20 times since joining the Border Patrol in 1987, once fracturing a shoulder blade. “You find yourself trying to take cover,” he said.

About four months ago, a large stone struck the hood of Agent Ellery Taylor’s vehicle. “The only thing you can think is, ‘I’m glad that that wasn’t my head,’ ” Agent Taylor said. “There’s no way to see it coming.”

On the Mexican side, Benito Arias said his 19-year-old sister-in-law fainted during an apparent tear gas attack about two weeks ago. The woman, five months pregnant, was given oxygen at the hospital.

Mr. Arias’s father, José Arias, said he sympathized with the Border Patrol because the Mexican authorities did nothing to prevent people from hurling stones over the fence at agents.

“This is a matter between government and government,” the elder Mr. Arias said. “They have to work out an agreement. We are innocent. What can we do about it?”
461 2007-12-18 WASHINGTON (Reuters) — A Japanese Navy destroyer shot down a ballistic missile on Monday in a test about 100 miles over the Pacific, a first for a United States ally, American and Japanese forces said.

The $55 million test was a “major milestone” in growing American and Japanese cooperation, according to a joint statement by Rear Adm. Katsutoshi Kawano of the Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force and Lt. Gen. Henry Obering, chief of the Missile Defense Agency at the Pentagon.

American and Japanese missile-defense ties have grown greatly since North Korea fired a three-stage Taepo Dong 1 missile over Japan on Aug. 31, 1998.

The interceptor was fired by the Kongo, the first of four Japanese destroyers due to be outfitted to counter missiles that could carry chemical, biological or nuclear warheads.

By intercepting a missile similar in speed and size to those in North Korea’s arsenal, “Japan has proven its capability to defend and protect their country from North Korean missiles,” said Riki Ellison, a prominent missile-defense advocate who monitored the test.

The test involved a shipboard detection and tracking tool called Aegis, built by Lockheed Martin, and the Standard Missile-3 interceptor, produced by Raytheon. The medium-range target missile was launched from an American range on Kauai, Hawaii. About three minutes later, the SM-3 intercepted it about 100 miles above the Pacific, a joint United States-Japanese announcement said.

The Kongo, armed with SM-3 interceptors, will return to Japan to provide an “operational” antimissile ability to complement the ground-based Patriot Advanced Capability-3 missiles already installed in Japan, said Chris Taylor, a spokesman for the Missile Defense Agency.
462 2007-12-18 SAN JOSE, Calif. — Nanosolar, a heavily financed Silicon Valley start-up whose backers include Google’s co-founders, plans to announce Tuesday that it has begun selling its innovative solar panels, which are made using a technique that is being held out as the future of solar power manufacturing.

The company, which has raised $150 million and built a 200,000-square-foot factory here, is developing a new manufacturing process that “prints” photovoltaic material on aluminum backing, a process the company says will reduce the manufacturing cost of the basic photovoltaic module by more than 80 percent.

Nanosolar, which recently hired a top manufacturing executive from I.B.M., said that it had orders for its first 18 months of manufacturing capacity. The photovoltaic panels will be made in Silicon Valley and in a second plant in Germany.

While many photovoltaic start-up companies are concentrating on increasing the efficiency with which their systems convert sunlight, Nanosolar has focused on lowering the manufacturing cost. Its process is akin to a large printing press, rather than the usual semiconductor manufacturing techniques that deposit thin films on silicon wafers.

Nanosolar’s founder and chief executive, Martin Roscheisen, claims to be the first solar panel manufacturer to be able to profitably sell solar panels for less than $1 a watt. That is the price at which solar energy becomes less expensive than coal.

“With a $1-per-watt panel,” he said, “it is possible to build $2-per-watt systems.”

According to the Energy Department, building a new coal plant costs about $2.1 a watt, plus the cost of fuel and emissions, he said.

The first Nanosolar panels are destined for a one-megawatt solar plant to be installed in Germany on a former landfill owned by a waste management company. The plant, being developed by Beck Energy, is expected to initially supply electrical power for about 400 homes.
463 2007-12-18 Real estate agents, developers and economists here all agree that the frozen market is the work of the current president, Roh Moo-hyun. Mr. Roh imposed new taxes and restrictions on real estate deals, in an effort to deter speculators, whom he blamed for stoking the overheating housing market. But many agents, developers and economists say Mr. Roh overshot his mark, making it prohibitively expensive for anyone to buy or sell.

Now, the market seems to be waiting for Wednesday’s, presidential election. Many here hope a successor will restart the housing market by reversing the policies of Mr. Roh, who is not seeking re-election. Real estate prices have emerged as a leading campaign issue, with the current front-runner, the conservative Grand National Party’s Lee Myung-bak, a former chief executive of Hyundai Construction, promising to lower capital gains taxes and other taxes.

But, many economists warn that by idling the market and giving investors time to reconsider their enthusiasm for high prices, Mr. Roh may have created a different problem. They say that even if a new president reverses Mr. Roh’s antispeculative measures, prices are just as likely to fall or even collapse as they are to resume climbing.

“The policies have ended up raising doubts about whether the crazy gains can continue,” said Kim Kwang-soo, head of KS Economic Research Institute. “This is a tremendous bubble, which must burst sooner or later.”

If there is a bubble, it was created by economic growth and higher living standards fueling a half-decade construction frenzy that continues to chug along, even amid the drop in real estate sales. Across the country, dominolike rows of identical high-rise apartments have sprung up, while armies of bulldozers and cranes transform farmland into dozens of “New Towns” and “Innovative Cities.”

Development helped cause a land grab that drove real estate values to such heights that middle-class buyers felt increasingly priced out of the market, prompting concerns of a possible asset bubble. In Seoul’s most popular neighborhoods, three-bedroom apartments now routinely cost $2 million, about 100 times the average national income.

Unlike its Asian neighbors, as prices rose, South Korea intervened forcefully. Initially, Mr. Roh, a populist who took power in 2002 on a left-leaning platform, appeared powerless. But late last year, his increasingly restrictive measures slowed price gains. Among the most potent of Mr. Roh’s steps were raising the capital gains tax by as much as 60 percent and limiting the size of some bank loans so that monthly payments did not surpass 40 percent of monthly income.

But the moves have been widely criticized for spreading pain too broadly. Industries from realty to construction and even trucking say they have lost business. Retiring workers, many who want to sell homes bought three or four decades ago, complain that the steeper capital gains taxes will wipe out profits that they had been counting on to finance their retirements.

But even if a new president can rekindle the boom, it may prove short-lived. Some experts warn that South Korea faces a severe glut in new housing over the next five years, as large developments begun during the early 2000s, when the market was soaring, reach completion. Shim Gyo-eon, a real estate professor at Konkuk University, predicts that some one million new units will come on the market by 2013.

“I have never seen so much supply coming at once,” said Dr. Shim, who has been unable to find buyers for his own house in Seoul.

One of the developments soon to come online is in the twin cities of Cheonan and Asan, a 40-minute ride from Seoul on South Korea’s new high-speed train. On what is now a huge stretch of excavated red earth, developers are building the Cheonan-Asan New Town, a corporate park and high-rise community meant to house some 4,000 families.

Along the development’s outskirts, more than 100 additional apartment towers, with space for 20,000 more families, have already begun rising.

Large glass-fronted showrooms in Cheonan, display full-size models of the uncompleted units available for order. But while construction continues, developers say that orders have been disappointingly low, with most showrooms sitting empty.

“Buyers just aren’t coming,” said Shin Dong-hyun, a director at Daewoo Engineering and Construction, which is building three apartment complexes with 2,100 units in Cheonan.

Mr. Shin says part of the problem is a “short-term oversupply of apartments.” Still, he says he is confident that they can all be sold eventually — if the current government policies are changed.

“People are interested in buying,” he said. “But they can’t under these conditions.”

Mr. Chung, a real estate agent in Yoido, says he is lucky now if a single customer calls or shows up each day at his office, Kukdo Real Estate Agency. That compares with 10 or more queries he received daily until last year. His business has plunged into the red.

Mr. Chung said business is even tougher now than it was during South Korea’s financial crisis a decade ago, when the economy nearly collapsed.

“At least during the crisis, people were selling,” he said. “Now, they’re doing nothing.”

South Korea’s new leader will face the tricky task of mopping up the aftermath.
464 2007-12-18 Wall Street extended last week’s losses Monday as investors remained concerned about flagging growth and rising prices, and were skeptical that a special Federal Reserve credit auction would be a solution.

The Dow Jones industrial average fell more than 170 points and all the major indexes lost at least 1 percent.

Investors remained nervous even as the Fed offered $20 billion in 28-day credit through an auction Monday. Results will not be released until Wednesday. The aim of the auction is to encourage commercial banks to borrow from the Fed and, in turn, to bolster lending to businesses and consumers.

In economic news, the government said the current-account deficit, the broadest measure of international trade, narrowed as expected in the third quarter compared with the second, to the lowest level in two years.

The New York Fed’s Empire State Manufacturing Index fell more sharply in December than economists expected, while the National Association of Home Builders said its housing market index held steady in November at its lowest level since it started the index in 1985.
465 2007-12-18 In September, the authorities started two interagency task forces to combat the crime in South Florida: one under the auspices of Miami-Dade County and the other, a state and federal initiative, led by the United States Attorney’s Office here, which oversaw the investigation that resulted in Monday’s indictment.

According to the indictment, Juan Torrens, 40, a defendant and the owner of two real estate investment companies, would identify property owners who were willing to overstate the selling price of their properties.

Mr. Torrens and another defendant, Daniel Ramos, 40, would recruit people to pose as buyers, the indictment said. Mr. Torrens and his wife, Rachael, would then prepare fraudulent mortgage loan applications on behalf of the straw buyers, including false pay stubs and tax forms, according to the indictment.

Meanwhile, to support the inflated sales prices, Alonso A. Muxo, 48, an appraiser, would prepare fraudulent appraisals, the indictment said.

In at least one case, the indictment says, Roger Rosario, an employee of Regions Bank, provided a fraudulent verification of deposit in connection with a mortgage loan application.

The defendants would skim off the difference between the sale price and the mortgage loan and pay off all the participants in the scheme, officials said.

Mr. and Ms. Torrens would then make payments on the mortgage loans to keep them afloat until the properties could be resold, often to another straw buyer, the indictment said.

The defendants, including 25 people accused of being straw buyers, lived in Miami-Dade County, Orlando, Jacksonville and Plantation, officials said.

Florida, which has a long and sordid history of property speculation and land grabs, was identified as the country’s leader in mortgage fraud by the Mortgage Asset Research Institute in a report last April. Florida held the No. 4 spot last year, but vaulted over Georgia, Michigan and Illinois to claim the lead.

To date, the state and federal mortgage fraud task force has announced the indictment of 55 people in connection with fraud involving more than $76 million worth of loans. The county task force has made at least 18 arrests.

Officials say the ripple effects of mortgage fraud go well beyond the lending institutions victimized in such cases. It can also inflate property values in the vicinity of the properties involved in such scams and can make it more difficult for honest home buyers to obtain loans.

“Mortgage fraud is not a paper crime,” Mr. Acosta said. “Real individuals are being hurt.”
466 2007-12-18 He adds as he types, “I’m writing examples for them.”

Then Mr. Riccardi, who is bilingual, urges the fabric cutter to ask the doctors which private Medicare plans they accept so he can help his client figure out which of 45 such plans best meets his medical and pharmaceutical needs.

Ah, now, here’s a puzzlement. The fabric cutter is also enrolled in a state prescription-assistance program that should have helped defray the cost of the uncovered medications. He would still have to pay $20 per prescription, a hardship certainly, but at least not full price. So why didn’t it kick in?

Mr. Riccardi calls the pharmacist. The pharmacist says he is suspicious of secondary billing and doesn’t believe the state plan will pick up the tab.

Then Mr. Riccardi gets a state plan representative on the phone. He conferences the two in.

“So, sir,” Mr. Riccardi says, at last, to the pharmacist. “My client has a bunch of prescriptions. Can I send him over now to pick them up? Thank you!”

As the client departs, ceding his seat in a full waiting room, Mr. Riccardi says: “Do not leave the pharmacy without your medications. Call me if you can’t.”

This is high season for Medicare madness. Advertisements for insurance companies saturate the media; recruiting vans park outside senior citizen centers. Through the end of December, recipients may choose among dozens of prescription plans. In January, enrollment begins for private Medicare plans.

If only it were that simple. In addition, a recipient may weigh the advisability of supplementary coverage and charity programs; master the fine print of loopholes, deductibles and co-pays; track shifting rosters of physicians, therapies and medications; and try to anticipate new frailties in the coming year. Dental work? Wheelchair? Oxygen tank?

Health insurance counselors like Mr. Riccardi, who travels to senior centers around New York City, help the elderly to understand coverage options and to escape the financial and medical vises that may be gripping them. Hospitals and senior centers often employ these caseworkers, nonprofit groups like the Medicare Rights Center have hot lines, and every state has a health insurance counseling program (www.shiptalk.org).

All day long, clients meet with Mr. Riccardi, a tall, slender man who grew up in Syracuse and learned Spanish while studying modern dance in Cuba and Mexico. He set aside that uncertain career to trouble-shoot for the elderly and to pursue a degree in social work. His clients this day are, for the most part, the retired working poor — factory workers, seamstresses, truck drivers. But for many, especially those who struggle with spoken English, the paperwork from hospitals, insurers and collection agencies, written in bureaucratic English, is beyond them. They do not understand the nuances of their plans; they pull cards from their wallets that are expired, redundant or conflicting.

“Do you answer the phone?” Mr. Riccardi says with a jesting smile to a tiny woman with frosty hair, as he sorts her envelopes. She has old bills from Medicare, collection notices, coordination of benefits snarls and new bills. Her husband, a retired hotel guard who now has Alzheimer’s, is in a nursing home; her daughter is fighting colon cancer. She herself is not in great shape, but at least she is physically and mentally able to reach out to a Mr. Riccardi.

“I just keep the answering machine on,” she replies, trying to laugh, because he has discovered her little secret. The tears well up suddenly. “It’s too much,” she whispers.

Her bills are so crushing that, Mr. Riccardi believes, she may qualify for “charitable consideration” from her hospital. He helps her fill out an application. He will also research clinics and write push-back letters to collection agencies.

“You have to take care of yourself,” he tells her. “Don’t worry about this.”

With faceless bureaucrats over the phone, Mr. Riccardi is polite but forceful: “Is it possible you can ask your supervisor to access that information?” But even an attack dog will bounce off a wall built of absurdities: “The call volume is too high, so you can’t answer my question now?”

By early afternoon, Mr. Riccardi, who has worked through lunch, buries his head in his hands. “I. Have. A. Headache,” he mutters.

The clients bring in prescription slips and plastic bags of empty vials that they can no longer get refilled. One woman has 28 prescriptions. A few are floundering inside “the doughnut hole,” the coverage gap in the Medicare prescription drug plans, when recipients must pay full cost for medications. As a result, some choose medicine over food; others, food over medicine. Some choose their spouse’s medication over their own. Some split prescriptions with friends or cadge samples from their doctors. Their blood pressure and cholesterol levels are rising; complications from untreated diabetes mount.

If you must choose between paying the hospital or the pharmacy, Mr. Riccardi advises some, pay for your medications so you can get better. The hospital can be paid in increments.

The next client, a disabled truck driver, is confused and worried. The hospital where he had cornea surgery on one eye now refuses to operate on the other, saying it doesn’t accept his insurance. What happened?

Mr. Riccardi peruses the jumble of cards, trying to figure out the man’s current insurance. He should be receiving Medicare and Medicaid, which would give him entree virtually everywhere.

“What’s this?” Mr. Riccardi asks. A card for the driver’s new private Medicare plan.

“Didn’t they tell you when you joined that you can only go to their hospitals and their doctors?” Mr. Riccardi asks.

Mr. Riccardi asks him why he picked this plan.

“They picked me,” he replies. They signaled to him on the street, he says in Spanish, and invited him into their van.

“O.K.,” Mr. Riccardi says, tightly, through his teeth. “Let’s get to work.”
467 2007-12-18 For example, she said: “The risk of pregnancy from a single act of unprotected sex is quite small, perhaps one chance in 12, and the risk of contracting H.I.V., about one in 500, is very much smaller than that. We’re not thinking logically; they are.”

For that reason, Dr. Reyna and Frank Farley, a professor at Temple University and past president of the American Psychological Association, noted last June in an article in Scientific American Reports that traditional programs that appeal to teenagers’ rationality “are inherently flawed, not because teens fail to weigh risks against benefits,” but because “teens tend to weight benefits more heavily than risks when making decisions.”

As for perceptions of invulnerability, a national study of 3,544 teenagers a decade ago found that their own estimates of their risk of dying were very much higher than the actual risk. Because adolescents already feel so vulnerable, showing them photos or films of fatal car crashes may do nothing to reduce future risk-taking.

“It now becomes clearer why traditional intervention programs fail to help many teenagers,” Dr. Reyna and Dr. Farley wrote. “Although the programs stress the importance of accurate risk perception, young people already feel vulnerable and overestimate their risks.”

In Dr. Reyna’s view, inundating teenagers with factual risk information could backfire, leading them to realize that behaviors like unprotected sex are less risky than they thought. Using an analytical approach of weighing risks versus benefits is “a slippery slope that all too often results in teens’ thinking that the benefits outweigh the risks,” she said.

Based on what she and others have learned about how teenagers react to risky choices, Dr. Reyna, co-director of the Center for Behavioral Economics and Decision Research at Cornell, and her colleague Charles J. Brainerd are testing a new approach to adolescent risk prevention.

She explained that as people grew older and more experienced, they became more intuitive, and more of their decisions were based on what she calls “gist,” an overall sense of what is the best course of action.

This approach, in which “one sees the forest more than the trees,” enables adults to reach the bottom line more quickly and, in the process, reduce their risky behaviors.

For example, while an adolescent might consider playing Russian roulette for a $1 million payoff, a normal adult would not give it a moment’s thought. Cutting directly to the chase, the adult would be more inclined to think: “No way! No amount of money is worth a one in six chance of dying.”

“Young people don’t get it,” Dr. Reyna said. “They don’t get the gist of a situation. Gist is based on one’s culture, background and experiences, and experience is what teens lack.”

A gist-based approach to decision making results in simple, black-and-white conclusions of good or bad, safe or dangerous, she and Dr. Farley wrote.

How can “gist” be created? After a young woman I knew became a paraplegic after swerving her car to avoid hitting a squirrel, I trained myself mentally not to brake or swerve in that situation, and I urged my sons and daughters-in-law to do the same. The gist here is that the life of a squirrel is not worth the possible consequences to me or anyone else on the road.

Likewise, in helping a teenage girl resist spontaneous, unprotected sex, a gist-based approach has her practicing ways to say “no” and not worry about losing her boyfriend. A 15-year-old who already had one unintended pregnancy and who participated in the “intuitive, gist-enhanced intervention program” that Dr. Reyna and Dr. Farley devised put it this way: “In talking about all the different ways to say ‘no,’ I’ve actually used them, which makes me feel much more comfortable. And I feel confident. I don’t feel stupid by saying ‘no.’ And even if people think I’m stupid, that’s their problem.”

Teenagers need “practice at recognizing cues in the environment that signal possible danger before it’s too late to act,” the two experts urged in a 44-page review of adolescent decision making published in September 2006 in the journal Psychological Science in the Public Interest.

At the same time, Dr. Reyna warned: “Younger adolescents don’t learn from consequences as well as older adolescents do. So rather than relying on them to make reasoned choices or to learn from the school of hard knocks, a better approach is to supervise them.”

In other words, young teenagers need to be protected from themselves by removing opportunities for risk-taking — for example, by filling their time with positive activities and protecting them from risky situations that are likely to be tempting or that require “behavioral inhibition.”

A young teenage girl should not be left alone in the house with her boyfriend, and responsible adults should be omnipresent and alcohol absent when teenagers have parties.
468 2007-12-18 In business, repurposing is all the rage. Take a product or service intended for one purpose and have it do something else.

Even NASA has caught the repurposing bug. The agency took its Deep Impact spacecraft — the one that in 2005 sent an 800-pound probe crashing into comet Tempel 1 to understand better the composition of comets — and gave it a new mission.

Two missions, really. One was to study known extrasolar planets with one of the telescopes on the spacecraft, and the other to fly past a second comet, Boethin, in 2008, and try to characterize it by surveying it with cameras and an infrared spectrometer.

But since what is now called the Epoxi mission was announced, a problem cropped up. Boethin, which is about a mile in diameter and was discovered in 1975, seems to have disappeared. Astronomers cannot locate it and suggest that it may have broken into pieces too small to be seen.

So in addition to repurposing Deep Impact, NASA is retargeting it, too. The agency announced last week that it had approved sending the spacecraft to another small comet, Hartley 2. The spacecraft has already performed a course-correcting rocket burn, and it is now scheduled to pass within about 600 miles of the comet in October 2010.
469 2007-12-18 The clear matzo ball soup was the same, the blue and brown tile floors were the same, even much of the kitchen staff was the same.

The waitresses recognized their old customers of the Second Avenue Deli and the old Second Avenue Deli customers recognized them — even though they had reconvened a mile north and were no longer on Second Avenue. Instead, they were now on East 33rd Street, between a nail salon and an eyebrow-threading place on the south side of the street between Lexington and Third Avenues.

The deli — a reincarnation of the 1954 original on Second Avenue at East 10th Street that was closed in 2006 — combined nostalgia and curiosity. Customers came by taxi, flew and walked in, waiting in lines 20 to 30 deep in the crisp cold. Many had tales of Abe Lebewohl, the World War II refugee turned deli owner who was murdered in 1996. A reward poster hung in the window seeking leads for that crime, yet to be solved.

After his death, the deli continued as a memorial to his legacy until a rent dispute shuttered it nearly two years ago. Now Jeremy Lebewohl, 25, his nephew, is determined to revive the family’s legacy. The family bought the building where the deli now occupies the first floor.

The first customers after the 6 a.m. opening were a couple who had flown in from Los Angeles on their way to Boston and had taken a cab into Manhattan. Other customers began streaming in, young and old, tourists and natives, Jewish and gentile.
470 2007-12-18 It will be more than five years until Hall of Fame voters weigh in on whether accusations of steroid use have tainted Roger Clemens’s career. But Clemens will get an early referendum on where he stands from six high school coaches in Texas.

On Tuesday, the executive board of the Texas High School Baseball Coaches Association plans to meet to decide whether to remove Clemens as a speaker at the organization’s convention in Waco, Tex., next month.

“The only thing I can say is that the officers are having a meeting tomorrow and we will discuss the situation at that time,” Rex Sanders, the executive director of the coaches association, said in a telephone interview. “We will discuss the impact that he might have speaking here and so forth. Our No. 1 concern is that our association is 100 percent against any type of steroid use.”

Sanders said some board members had been in contact with Clemens but declined to discuss the specifics of the conversations.

George J. Mitchell’s report on performance-enhancing drugs in baseball included statements from Clemens’s former personal trainer, Brian McNamee, that he had injected Clemens with steroids on numerous occasions.

Clemens, through his lawyer, has denied the accusations.

Meanwhile, Lance Berkman, who played with Clemens on the Houston Astros from 2004 to 2006, said Monday that the admission Saturday by Andy Pettitte that he used human growth hormone had put pressure on Clemens to address the issue.

“I’m not insinuating the allegations are true just because Pettitte came out and said the trainer was telling the truth about him,” Berkman said, according to The Houston Chronicle’s Web site. “I’m just saying it puts more pressure on the Clemens camp to specifically deny charges.

“I don’t think it’s good enough to make a blanket statement and say the guy’s lying. Now that Andy’s come out, that certainly puts a little more pressure to come out and make a more detailed statement.”
471 2007-12-18 “Maybe it is wishful thinking,” Mr. McCain said after a recent event, “but I think we are starting to see some of the same thing we saw in 2000.”

Mr. McCain said that he had worked to persuade voters to give him a second look and that his campaign believed that is exactly what they were doing. Although his closing message is better defined and he is drawing distinctions with his rivals more crisply, his candidacy continues to face hurdles.

The quest for independents, who can vote in either primary here, may be complicated by antiwar candidates like Senator Barack Obama and even Ron Paul, the libertarian Republican who recorded more than $5 million in contributions on the Internet on Sunday, a one-day record.

Mr. McCain expects that the improved security in Iraq after the troop increase that he championed may work to his advantage.

Beyond the struggle for independents, Mr. McCain also has to work to bring in fiscal conservatives who have been drawn to Mitt Romney’s economic message. To that end, Mr. McCain will lay out in greater detail on Tuesday in Salem plans to deal with the mortgage crisis, the shrinking dollar and federal spending.

Among the proposals are repealing the alternative minimum tax, making permanent President Bush’s tax cuts, and banning Internet and cellphone taxes.

At the forum on Monday where Mr. Lieberman announced his support, Mr. McCain was in a fiery mood, ribbing Adam Kowalski, 19, for wearing a Santa Claus hat. He said, “You look kind of dorky in the hat.”

Mr. Kowalski took it in good humor and in an interview later expressed sentiments typical of many who show up at Mr. McCain’s events.

“I like his honesty,” he said. “Hearing him speak is completely different.”

An independent, Mr. Kowalski said he had not made up his mind but was leaning toward Mr. McCain, saying the senator was the only Republican he could envision supporting.

On the war, Mr. Kowalski said that he was torn, because Mr. McCain may be correct on the increase in troops, but that Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and Mr. Obama might have the best answer in trying to end the war.

“All I know is that it is either all or nothing with Iraq,” he said.

Although some polls a few months ago showed Mr. McCain barely registering, more recent surveys suggest that he is gaining support nationally. He appears to be in a particularly strong position in New Hampshire, tied for second with Rudolph W. Giuliani behind Mr. Romney, according to a CNN/WMUR poll.

Mr. McCain’s campaign says a number of factors are coalescing in their favor.

The rise of former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas has forced Mr. Romney to concentrate on Iowa and spend resources there.

Mr. Giuliani, the former New York mayor, has started to pull out resources from New Hampshire, a development that the McCain camp sees as an opportunity to peel off his supporters.

Mr. McCain could face many hurdles even if he fares well here. His financial woes mean that he may not be well-prepared financially for the big day of primaries on Feb. 5, when hefty advertising budgets are likely to trump the personal campaigning that Mr. McCain relishes.

Mr. McCain is focusing heavily on New Hampshire, where he has campaigned more aggressively than his rivals. Instead of popping in and out for one-day visits, as Mr. Romney and Mr. Giuliani did on Monday, he has gone on multiday bus tours that build their own momentum.

In the last month, Mr. McCain has been here 12 days, holding 30 forums and greeting at 14 stops at coffee shops, restaurants and diners.

In a clear effort to capitalize on the attention from Mr. Lieberman’s endorsement, Mr. McCain held a news conference at the New Hampshire Political Library in Concord to announce a coalition of 300 independents who would work for his campaign.

“You run in the primary like you run for governor,” Mike Dennehy, the campaign’s New Hampshire director, said.

Mr. McCain said he did not agree with the notion that independents would flock to the Democrats, saying that though 42 percent of New Hampshire voters were registered independents, many lean heavily to the right or left.

Ultimately, he said, he can worry only about what he can control, like highlighting his years of fighting climate change, an issue that he feels is important to many independents here.

“I do predict they will turn out,” he said. “How they turn out I don’t know.”
472 2007-12-18 The Paul campaign would not say how much it had spent and how much cash it had on hand; all of the candidates must report their quarterly finances next month.

Mr. Paul said in a telephone interview Monday that he intended to spend the money “wisely,” including on expanded advertising and additional staff members in early primary states.

“We have to do what we can to score well on these early primaries,” he said. “And have some money in the bank to campaign for Super Tuesday.” Mr. Paul was referring to Feb. 5, a primary day involving numerous states.

His candidacy has been widely considered a long shot, and he remains in the single digits in national and state polls. But his large bankroll can keep him in the contest beyond early January and help him draw votes from rivals like Senator John McCain of Arizona, who will be competing for some of the same independent voters in New Hampshire.

Mr. Paul, at a news conference on Monday in Des Moines, also declined to rule out the possibility of running as an independent, a move encouraged by many of his supporters. But, he added, “I can’t foresee that happening.”

A spokesman for the campaign, Jesse Benton, said it would use the money to rush out a new television advertisement and put it on the air in Iowa and New Hampshire by midweek. Mr. Benton said the campaign would also hire more staff members in Florida and California, states in which his aides said they believed he could be competitive. “This is money in the bank,” he said.

But even Mr. Paul at times has seemed surprised that he now has the resources to compete. On Monday, he said the campaign had never dared to think beyond its budget.

“We never would plan anything we didn’t have money for, so we’ve always been very cautious,” Mr. Paul said. “It makes it easy to make plans when you know you can pay the bills.”
473 2007-12-18 Hillary Clinton has been a much better senator than Barack Obama. She has been a serious, substantive lawmaker who has worked effectively across party lines. Obama has some accomplishments under his belt, but many of his colleagues believe that he has not bothered to master the intricacies of legislation or the maze of Senate rules. He talks about independence, but he has never quite bucked liberal orthodoxy or party discipline.

If Clinton were running against Obama for Senate, it would be easy to choose between them.

But they are running for president, and the presidency requires a different set of qualities. Presidents are buffeted by sycophancy, criticism and betrayal. They must improvise amid a thousand fluid crises. They’re isolated and also exposed, puffed up on the outside and hollowed out within. With the presidency, character and self-knowledge matter more than even experience. There are reasons to think that, among Democrats, Obama is better prepared for this madness.

Many of the best presidents in U.S. history had their character forged before they entered politics and carried to it a degree of self-possession and tranquillity that was impervious to the Sturm und Drang of White House life.

Obama is an inner-directed man in a profession filled with insecure outer-directed ones. He was forged by the process of discovering his own identity from the scattered facts of his childhood, a process that is described in finely observed detail in “Dreams From My Father.” Once he completed that process, he has been astonishingly constant.

Like most of the rival campaigns, I’ve been poring over press clippings from Obama’s past, looking for inconsistencies and flip-flops. There are virtually none. The unity speech he gives on the stump today is essentially the same speech that he gave at the Democratic convention in 2004, and it’s the same sort of speech he gave to Illinois legislators and Harvard Law students in the decades before that. He has a core, and was able to maintain his equipoise, for example, even as his campaign stagnated through the summer and fall.

Moreover, he has a worldview that precedes political positions. Some Americans (Republican or Democrat) believe that the country’s future can only be shaped through a remorseless civil war between the children of light and the children of darkness. Though Tom DeLay couldn’t deliver much for Republicans and Nancy Pelosi, so far, hasn’t been able to deliver much for Democrats, these warriors believe that what’s needed is more partisanship, more toughness and eventual conquest for their side.
474 2007-12-18 IGNORING SUBPRIME RED FLAGS An examination of regulatory decisions shows that the Federal Reserve and other agencies waited until it was too late before trying to tame excesses in the mortgage industry.      THE SHOWS WILL GO ON NBC said that Jay ...
475 2007-12-18 Deputies made nearly two dozen arrests after breaking up a dogfighting operation, Sheriff Bob Buckley of Union Parish said. Sheriff Buckley said that at least six units from his office and from the State Wildlife and Fisheries Office raided the op...
476 2007-12-19 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
477 2007-12-19 One known for secrecy, the other openness....
478 2007-12-19 NetSuite's hotly anticipated initial public offering just keeps getting hotter. For the second day in a row, the accounting software company, which is controlled by Larry Ellison, the chief executive of Oracle, raised the expected price range for ...
479 2007-12-19 Find out on The Caucus if Senator John McCain grooves on an eight-track tape player (ooh, that's cold - and also not true): While Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, John Edwards and Fred D. Thompson all cited their iPods, we learned that Rudolph W. G...
480 2007-12-19 But a onetime "Pushcart King" is fighting back on behalf of Vietnam vets. Read more....
481 2007-12-19 Twelve states — Connecticut, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont and Washington — have adopted the California emissions standards, and the governors of Arizona, Colorado, Florida and Utah have said they planned to do so.

The primary way for emissions to be reduced in automobiles is by improving fuel economy. Automakers must now achieve 27.5 m.p.g. for cars, and 22.2 m.p.g. for light trucks, including S.U.V.s and pickups.

California has long had separate standards governing automobile emissions, which carmakers say has made it more expensive to sell vehicles there.

The California regulations would have forced the car companies either to sell two separate fleets of vehicles — one for states with the higher standard, one that met the federal standard — or more likely, to achieve the higher standard across all vehicles.

State officials from California and the other states, including New York, had threatened to sue the E.P.A. in order to get a decision on the waiver, accusing it of dragging its heels. California first approved the regulations in 2003. Two years later, it submitted a request to the E.P.A. to put the standards into effect.

The agency initially argued that it did not have the authority to regulate greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act. But earlier this year, the United States Supreme Court ruled that the agency could do so.

Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California and the attorney general, Edmund G. Brown Jr., said Wednesday that they were prepared to "sue at the earlier possible moment" to try to force the E.P.A. to allow the state to set emissions standards.

Even if that happens, the states probably would not be able to implement the standards as soon as they had liked. Any legal action might not be settled in time for the regulations to begin taking effect in 2009, as California had hoped.

In recent months, the Bush administration has lost several major court cases over emissions and other environmental standards.

"This decision is like pulling over the fire trucks on their way to the blaze," said Fred Krupp, president of Environmental Defense, which supported the waiver. "For 40 years, E.P.A. administrators have recognized the important role that California plays in innovating new standards to fight pollution."

Automobile companies praised the agency for rejecting the California request. "We commend E.P.A. for protecting a national, 50-state program," said David McCurdy, president of the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers.

He went on, "Enhancing energy security and improving fuel economy are priorities to all automakers, but a patchwork quilt of inconsistent and competing fuel economy programs at the state level would only have created confusion, inefficiency, and uncertainty for automakers and consumers."

Mr. McCurdy said the new energy bill would result in a 30 percent reduction in automobile emissions by the time the law is fully in place.

In recent weeks, the chief executives of the Detroit auto companies had traveled to Washington to lobby for less-stringent regulations than the new law ultimately contained. The General Motors chief executive Rick Wagoner, Chrysler's chief executive Robert L. Nardelli and Ford's chief Alan R. Mulally met with Congressional representatives and Bush administration officials, including Vice President Richard Cheney, to discuss the legislation.

Industry analysts and environmental groups said the E.P.A.'s decision had the appearance of a reward to the industry, in return for dropping its opposition to the energy legislation. Indeed, the auto industry leaders all issued statements supporting the new energy law, which gives them more time to improve fuel economy than the California regulations would have done.

"By blocking the California standards, the administration has stuck a thumb in the eye of 18 governors from both red and blue states who have led the way on global warming by adopting these landmark rules," said David Doniger, climate center policy director for the National Resources Defense Council.

In a separate statement, James Lentz, the president of Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., added that it was "important that the U.S. E.P.A. has further clarified that the federal government is best suited to regulate fuel economy standards for the benefit of the entire nation."

But lawmakers and leaders from the states seeking to set their own regulations appeared uniformly outraged. Along with the vow by California leaders to sue, Senator Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California, said she was "prepared to take all measures to overturn this harmful decision"
482 2007-12-19 Shares of Oracle declined 49 cents to close at $20.76 ahead of the report, which was released after the close of regular trading. In after-hours trading, the stock was up more than 3 percent.

The second quarter was helped by strong sales of products that were not in Oracle’s product line a year ago. Oracle, which makes computer database software and business applications for managing payroll, inventory and other operations, has spent more than $20 billion in the last three years to buy two dozen companies, most notably PeopleSoft, Siebel, Agile and Hyperion. And the company is showing no signs of slowing down the pace.

On Oct. 12, Oracle made an unsolicited bid to acquire rival BEA Systems for $6.7 billion, an offer that BEA executives rejected as too low despite pressure from the company’s largest shareholder, Carl C. Icahn, to seek a buyer for the company. Two weeks later, BEA said it would agree to be acquired by Oracle for about $8.2 billion, an offer Oracle that called “impossibly high.”

Oracle has made no new offer since then, and in mid-November Mr. Ellison told financial analysts that the company was more likely to pursue other takeover targets than to renew its bid for BEA. Still, despite Mr. Ellison’s public statements, many analysts still think that Oracle will eventually buy BEA. When it set out to acquire PeopleSoft four years ago, Oracle declared it would not raise its price, but finally paid almost twice its initial bid.

Acquiring BEA would establish Oracle as the largest player in middleware — the layer of software code between a company’s database system and the business programs that use the company’s data. In that market, Oracle faces intense competition from I.B.M.
483 2007-12-19 The senators said they hoped Judge Filip, if confirmed, would be more open and cooperative with the lawmakers than the Justice Department was when it was headed by Alberto R. Gonzales. “I hope that Mark Filip reassures us that he understands that the duty of the deputy attorney general is to uphold the Constitution and the rule of law, not work to circumvent it,” Senator Patrick J. Leahy, the Vermont Democrat who heads the panel, said at the outset.

“So the nomination of Judge Filip comes during a crisis of leadership that has done more than take a heavy toll on the department’s morale and tradition of independence,” Mr. Leahy said. “Morale and tradition of independence, I might say, that has always, in my experience, existed with both Republican and Democratic administrations.”

The committee’s top Republican, Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, offered similar remarks, prompting the nominee to say that he hoped potential disagreements between Capitol Hill and the Justice Department can be worked out.

“I would hope that I don’t have to pick between the two,” Judge Filip said.

But the nominee’s response to questions about what constitutes “torture” were unsatisfactory to some panel members.

“This shouldn’t be something that’s going to take a lot more study,” said Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts. “You’re not prepared to tell us, in your own words, whether you believe that waterboarding is torture, the same kind of techniques that the United States prosecuted Japanese for doing to Americans in World War II?”

Again, the nominee responded that he could not really answer while Attorney General Mukasey has the issue “under review.”

Senator Leahy assailed the Bush administration over the destruction of interrogation videotapes and over Wednesday’s disclosure by The New York Times that administration lawyers took part in discussions beforehand.

“Just this morning, in a regrettably familiar pattern, we learned that the involvement of senior administration officials seems to have been much more significant than it appeared from their initial denials,” Senator Leahy said. “The revelations are leading to additional investigations by Congress and the courts and have raised questions by both Republicans and Democrats in the House and the Senate.”

Mr. Leahy asked the nominee what advice he would have given the administration lawyers if he had known they were discussing whether to destroy the tapes.

“I would have first tried to look at the applicable legal orders that were in place and give them advice as a lawyer as to what their legal responsibilities were,” the nominee replied. Alluding to the tapes, he continued, “It might be the better practice to keep those in any event, given the nature of the interests at stake in terms of the subject matter that was on the tapes.”

Judge Filip, 41, got a warm reception on a personal level. Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, said that in three years on the federal bench, the nominee had earned anonymous rave reviews from lawyers. Quoting from some, the senator said: “His legal ability is a perfect 10 out of 10. He’s an exceedingly smart man. He’s the nicest judge in the courthouse.”
484 2007-12-19 Nevertheless, Mr. Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, spent much of the spring and summer focusing more on bolstering his credentials as a conservative champion as he fended off vigorous criticism for his more moderate past. But Mr. Romney advisers believe they have largely succeeded in establishing his conservative bona fides, even though lingering questions about his authenticity persist, and are able now to move on to targeting the next layer of voters.

“If you look now and you ask, ‘Is Mitt Romney a conservative?’ People would say, ‘Yes,’ ” said Russ Schriefer, one of the campaign’s media strategists.

“Now as we get closer to the election, I think we need to be focusing more on his experience,” Mr. Schriefer said. “What is it about Mitt Romney that makes him unique? What is it that makes him uniquely qualified? He has the experience. He has the experience to manage big things. He’s done it before.”

From the beginning, his campaign has oscillated between two distinct, some would say contradictory, themes: Mr. Romney as a conservative standard-bearer and Mr. Romney as a pragmatic problem-solving businessman.

His campaign advisers say the themes are complementary, but his critics say the businessman theme comes much more naturally to him while his staunch conservative message was seized for political purposes only.

“These two messages don’t necessarily fit under the same strategic umbrella,” said John Weaver, who ran Senator John McCain’s campaign until the summer. “They’re completely different. I think the governor has struggled to carry those two messages.”

The re-emphasis of the managerial argument that many originally thought could make Mr. Romney president — his experience as a pragmatic problem-solving businessman — jibes with the campaign’s closing strategy in Iowa, whose caucuses are Jan. 3, and New Hampshire, whose primaries are five days later.

Here in New Hamspshire, where a new CNN/WMUR polls shows Mr. Romney holding onto his lead, his advisers said their surveys show him faring well among voters focused on taxes and spending. But they add that he has room to grow among what they call “economic voters,” who are concerned about jobs, America’s competitiveness overseas and other economic issues.

“We’re going to talk about things the governor can do to promote economic growth and how he understands this new global economy,” said Alex Gage, Mr. Romney’s director of strategy.

Sure enough, in his stump speech here, Mr. Romney spoke on “why jobs come and why jobs go” based on lessons he derived from business, and emphasized his work in “over 20 countries.”

In Iowa, Mr. Romney’s advisers believe it will be difficult for him, about two weeks before the contest, to peel off staunch Christian conservative voters from Mr. Huckabee, a former Baptist minister. But they think Mr. Romney can win over others who place more importance on fiscal issues, the economy and immigration. It is one of the reasons Mr. Romney unveiled a spiffy new Powerpoint presentation last week, designed more to showcase his corporate competence than help the audience follow his policy points.

But Mr. Weaver , the former McCain adviser, argued that the Romney campaign still has struggled to produce a consistent message. In contrast, Mr. McCain’s candidacy immediately evokes the Iraq war and his foreign-policy credentials; for Mr. Giuliani’s, it is his handling of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks along with staying on offense against Islamic terrorism.

“They’re having a hard time having both feet planted on either side of the seesaw,” Mr. Weaver said.

Romney’s aides agree that they have struggled at times to inculcate their broader message in voters, in part because they were busy parrying attacks early on from their opponents, including Mr. McCain and later Senator Sam Brownback in Iowa.

“It took us a while to get other things put to bed so we could stick to a theme and get people to look at us that way because we were answering other questions,” said Tom Rath, a former New Hampshire attorney general and senior adviser.

To combat attacks from the right, Mr. Romney debuted a message in May centered around what he called the “three legs of the conservative stool” — meant to unite social, fiscal and foreign-policy conservatives behind him. He then spent much of the summer leading into Iowa’s straw poll expounding on the idea, only bringing up his private-sector experience in passing. He also presented a much harder line on immigration issues as the campaign progressed.

The question at this point is whether Mr. Romney jerked the wheel too hard to the right as he now tries to pick up a broader cross-section of voters. In September, his campaign rolled out a new theme of Mr. Romney as a leader capable of bringing change to Washington. It was change, they sensed, that many in the party ultimately wanted. But it is a message that they have found hard to stick to amid the daily fluctuations of the campaign.

“It has been hard to get to the essential, the core,” Mr. Gage said.

Now Mr. Romney is trying to get down to it before he runs out of time.
485 2007-12-19 Cheaper new cars, a result of the surging Canadian dollar, lowered Canada’s core inflation rate last month, Statistics Canada reported. The core portion of the country’s consumer price index, which excludes volatile items like gasoline and mortgage interest, was 1.6 percent in November, compared with 1.8 percent in October. The agency attributed that unexpected decline to a 3.9 percent drop in new car prices and lease rates. Canada’s overall inflation rate grew slightly in November to 2.5 percent, compared with 2.4 percent in October. Much of that was attributed to a 17.6 percent increase in gasoline prices.
486 2007-12-19 Yulia Tymoshenko, who helped lead the street protests that overturned a rigged presidential election three years ago, was narrowly approved by Parliament to be prime minister. She held the same post in 2005 before a falling-out with President Viktor A. Yushchenko, with whom she has reconciled.
487 2007-12-19 SALEM, N.H. — Reacting to voters’ concerns about the economy, Senator John McCain said Tuesday that he would consider greater intervention by the federal government to limit the fallout of the mortgage crisis if current measures fail.

Mr. McCain, who is focusing in more detail on issues related to the economy in the windup to primary season, did not specify what further federal intervention might be necessary. But Mr. McCain, a Republican from Arizona, indicated that the government has a role in helping the truly needy, and he likened the current crisis to the savings-and-loan meltdown in the 1980s, which set off an extensive government bailout to soften its effect on the economy.

Mr. McCain said he was generally opposed to federal intervention. “Whenever there is government intervention, there are unintended consequences,” he said. However, he said, this crisis poses such a serious threat to the overall economic health of the nation that he can see the need for even greater steps.

Unlike the leading Democrats competing for their party’s nomination, the leading Republicans have been largely silent on the mortgage crisis, not addressing it in any great detail. On Tuesday, though, Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, said in South Carolina in response to a question from a reporter that he did not believe there should be a broad federal bailout.

Mr. McCain said he was moved to talk about the topic because more voters were expressing anxiety about a host of economic issues, with the mortgage crisis the most immediate.
488 2007-12-19 The proposed changes, which do not apply to standard mortgages for borrowers with good credit, stopped short of banning all heavily criticized practices in subprime lending and did not go as far as many consumer groups had sought. But they won praise as worthwhile steps from some industry critics who had long complained that the Federal Reserve under its former chairman, Alan Greenspan, persistently ignored signs of trouble.

“Reading these proposals today is almost painful,” said Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic Policy Research, a liberal research group in Washington. “These are all just simple, common sense regulation. Why couldn’t Greenspan have done this seven years ago?”

If the measures had been in place earlier, they would have applied to as many as 30 percent of all mortgages made in 2006.

Some advocacy groups that had warned for years about reckless practices said the Fed’s move was too little and too late.

“The Federal Reserve’s proposed guidance is riddled with loopholes and exceptions that will undermine its effectiveness,” said Deborah Goldstein, executive vice president of the Center for Responsible Lending, a nonprofit group in Durham, N.C. “The proposals fall far short of what was needed, and in some ways fall short of where the industry was already headed.”

The new rules would do nothing to help the hundreds of thousands of people who are either already defaulting on subprime mortgages or are likely to lose their homes when their introductory teaser rates expire and their monthly payments jump by 30 percent or more.

Soaring default rates among subprime borrowers have already caused a crisis on Wall Street, all but shutting down the subprime mortgage market since August because lenders could no longer raise the cash to make new loans. The Bush administration has pushed for voluntary agreements aimed at avoiding some, but far from all, of the foreclosures expected next year.

The American Banking Association praised the Fed’s action as “an important proposal that would make a significant difference in protecting mortgage borrowers.” But the industry group warned that some provisions might go too far. “We worry that replacing important lending flexibility with rigid formulas might also limit lending to some creditworthy borrowers.”

In Congress, leading Democratic lawmakers said the Fed had been too cautious.

Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, said the central bank showed it was "not a strong advocate for consumers." Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, called the proposal a "step backward."

The House recently passed a bill last month that would impose even tougher restrictions on many subprime practices that the Fed addressed on Tuesday. The Senate has not acted on a bill, but Mr. Dodd recently introduced a measure with many of the same goals as the House bill.

Despite their limitations, the central bank’s new proposals would nonetheless cut a wide swath across the nation’s fragmented mortgage system. They would govern practices for all mortgage lenders, regardless of whether they are banks, thrift institutions or independent mortgage companies. And they would apply regardless of whether a lender is supervised by federal or state regulators.

The most important indicator that the Fed wanted to throw down the gauntlet is in how it defined the mortgages that would be subject to special consumer protection.

Under its existing rules, based on the Home Ownership Equity Protection Act of 1994, the Fed’s extra protections applied to less than 1 percent of all mortgages — those with interest rates at least eight percentage points above prevailing rates on Treasury securities.

The new rules, by contrast, invoked broader legal authority to apply to any mortgage with an interest rate three percentage points or more above Treasury rates. Fed officials said that would cover all subprime loans, which accounted for about 25 percent of all mortgages last year, as well as many exotic mortgages — known in the industry as “Alt-A” loans — made to people with relatively good credit scores.

Under the new rules, such borrowers would have to document their incomes, supply tax returns, earnings statements, bank records or other evidence. Lenders would not be allowed to qualify a person based only on their ability to pay the initial teaser rate.

The proposal would essentially end the practice of allowing those with poor credit to apply for “stated income” loans, often known as “liar’s loans,” which do not require borrowers to provide evidence of their incomes and assets. And it would restrict mortgages with future monthly payments beyond those that could be justified by a borrower’s projected earnings.

The Fed proposal would still leave some room for flexibility. Lenders would have to provide “reasonably reliable evidence” of a person’s income, a definition that Fed officials said would allow small business owners and others whose income may be erratic or difficult to confirm to arrange a subprime mortgage.

The Fed also refused to prohibit the much-criticized subprime lending practice of big prepayment penalties. Prepayment penalties, which can cost thousands of dollars, often block people from switching to a cheaper mortgage for two years or longer.

Mortgage lenders argue that prepayment penalties are often essential, because they provide investors with assurance of earning more than just the low teaser rates. But consumer groups have argued that the penalties can trap borrowers in expensive loans and that many home buyers do not properly understand them.

Under the Fed proposal, lenders would still be allowed to demand prepayment penalties, but the penalties would have to expire at least 60 days before a loan’s introductory rate was scheduled to reset at a higher level.

The new rules would also make it more difficult for lenders to include hidden sales fees, which are usually paid to the mortgage broker. Many subprime lenders tell borrowers they will not have to pay any fees, or even any costs for services like appraisals, but include those fees in what is called a “yield-spread premium” on the interest rate.

The Fed proposal would not prohibit yield-spread premiums but would require that a lender disclose the exact amount of the fees and have the borrower agree to the fees in writing.

John Taylor, president of the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, a housing advocacy group, said simply disclosing the fees was not enough because home buyers were already inundated with a blizzard of disclosure forms to sign and can easily miss the significance of what they are approving.

Borrowers “shouldn’t need to be a lawyer or financial expert,” Mr. Taylor said, “to protect themselves from unfair and deceptive lending.”
489 2007-12-19 The meat and dairy industries have expressed concerns that consumers might shun food from cloned animals, despite the F.D.A.’s assurances. Some public opinion surveys have found that many people are morally opposed to cloned animals, not just concerned about safety. So some food companies and retailers have been interested in a way to show that their food is free of products from clones.

The tracking system is being announced by ViaGen and Trans Ova Genetics, two companies that account for most cloned livestock. The companies said they developed the plan over a 10-month period in consultation with the food industry.

Under the system, the companies would give each cloned animal an electronic ear tag with an identification number, which would be entered into a registry.

Farmers and breeders who buy the clones would be asked to put up a hefty cash deposit in addition to what they pay for the animal. The farmers and breeders would also commit to marketing the milk or meat only to those who want it. The farmers would be able to get their deposit back by proving that the animal either died or was sold to a meat packer or processor that accepts clones, with a signed statement from the packer or processor.

Leah Wilkinson, director for policy and industry relations for ViaGen, said that since cloned animals were expensive to produce, they would mostly be used for breeding other animals, not to make meat or milk.

“What we’re doing is allowing for those small number of animals to be segregated out from the food supply,” she said.

But Joseph Mendelson, legal director of the Center for Food Safety, an advocacy group, said the system gave consumers “phony assurances.” He said animals would slip through because the system was voluntary and did not cover the progeny of cloned animals.

The Grocery Manufacturers Association, which represents major food companies, said in a statement released by the cloning companies that “a rigorous clone segregation program is needed if this breeding technology is introduced.”

The group said the program “addresses this need from a supply chain management standpoint,” but it added that, “ultimately, consumer preferences will determine if meat, milk and other byproducts from cloned animals will be used in food products.”
490 2007-12-19 “The right of veterans to get permits has a long history in this city, and for the past few years, when veterans try to apply for one, they can’t get one,” he said. New York State has allowed veterans free vending permits since the Civil War, he said.

Mr. Avella said the city had now restricted the number of permits issued to veterans to perhaps 300 and made it difficult to get even those.

A proposal he introduced to the City Council last year about permits for veterans had not been granted a hearing, he said. It would help disabled veterans obtain permits, but Mr. Rossi, who is not disabled, hopes to persuade him to broaden the legislation to include all veterans.

In Mr. Avella’s plan, about 100 disabled veterans would sell “in specified areas of Manhattan that are otherwise closed to vending due to local law, ordinance, rule or regulation.” The legislation seeks to remove “the limitations on food vending permits for disabled veteran vendors.”

The city complies with the state law on issuing permits to veterans, said Jessica Scaperotti, a spokeswoman for the city’s health department, which issues permits for food pushcarts. The city waives fees for veterans and gives them priority on the waiting list of roughly 2,500 people hoping to get permits. But because the number of food cart permits is capped at 4,100 to avoid cart congestion, and few vendors let their licenses lapse, new ones are not given out very often, she said.

This is not the first time Mr. Rossi has taken on the city regarding permits. In the 1990s, Mr. Rossi, then called the Pushcart King in the press, was one of the most vocal opponents of the city’s crackdown on street vendors and multiple permit holders, like himself. He once owned a pushcart empire with about 500 permits, which he had obtained by buying companies in the late 1980s.

He leased the permits to individual vendors. But in 1995, he said, the city revoked all but one of his permits, which he renews every two years for a modest fee. Now he runs a single pushcart and works to expand the city’s policy to include more veterans. Mr. Rossi said he had gone “from rags to riches to below rags.”

The museum is on property controlled by the parks department, which regulates vending on city parkland. Mr. Rossi’s remaining permit does not qualify him to vend in city parks or in Midtown Manhattan, and he refuses to bid for a spot. Officials from New York One, which is run out of a pushcart depot on West 37th Street, did not return repeated requests for comment. A spokeswoman for the parks department had no comment other than saying that New York One pays $249,000 to operate a cart on the south side of the museum steps and $325,000 to keep a cart on the north side.

“It has to be brought to New Yorkers’ attention the injustice that the city is denying a kid coming back from Iraq the right to sell hot dogs,” he said. “I chose this spot because it has a reputation as the premier location, and a lot of people are going to see me.”

He added: “Don’t get me wrong. If I’m going to vend, I may as well make money.”
491 2007-12-19 For years, under Gov. George E. Pataki, state officials told the public that the World Trade Center memorial would open Sept. 11, 2009, the eighth anniversary of the attack.

On Tuesday, however, bowing to the realities of an ever-more-complex project, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey said construction of the memorial plaza would not be finished until 2010. This is the street-level expanse where groves of white oaks and sweet gum trees will rise around two square voids — marking where the twin towers stood — bordered by the names of the dead and filled with waterfalls and pools.

By 2009, the steel framework for the plaza is expected to be complete to street level.

The memorial area will also include a below-ground museum and an above-ground visitors’ center. These will not be finished until 2011.

Anthony E. Shorris, the executive director of the Port Authority, which owns the site, said after a board meeting on Tuesday that the change was prompted by a re-evaluation of the project. He held out hope — slim as it was — that the timetable might be revised again more favorably.

“We’ll obviously do our best to bring it back if we can,” he said, “but we wanted to put out the most realistic schedule we could, and right now the full completion of everything is looking more like ’11 than ’10.”
492 2007-12-19 Its mission is to prepare men and women for ordained ministry, and it offers a range of degrees, including a Master of Divinity and Master of Arts for lay students. A day-care center on campus is open to the public, and St. Mark’s Library has one of the most comprehensive collections of Anglican reference materials in the country. There are also a number of community programs for the city’s poor.

The new library with the condo above it, designed by the Polshek Partnership, is to be built on the footprint of Sherrill Hall, a blocky mid-20th-century building of about 75,000 square feet on Ninth Avenue. Demolition is scheduled to start on Jan. 15.

It took 14 months and dealing with 12 city agencies for the seminary to gain approval for construction of retail space and market-rate housing above the 20,000-square-foot library.

The delay was caused in part by the seminary’s site within a historic district. In addition, its Chelsea neighbors balked at the sale of the seminary’s 240,000 square feet of air rights to the Brodsky Organization, a developer that was proposing a 17-story apartment building. The apartment complex will now be seven stories, 75 feet high. The transaction resulted in $32 million for the seminary.

After the sale, the seminary still has 100,000 square feet of air rights, according to Maureen Burnley, vice president of the seminary.

Elizabeth Leber, a partner at the architecture firm Beyer Blinder Belle, who has worked on the adaptive reuse and historic renovation of the campus for eight years, said the sale of the remaining air rights ”would have generated another $20 million for the building and renovation projects.”

Ms. Leber said the seminary faced complicated decisions. It owns historic buildings that must be maintained, but it is barred from making changes that don’t comply with landmark guidelines. “So you can’t go with the cheapest method,” she explained. “If it’s a slate roof, you can’t replace it with asphalt shingles, even if that is all you can afford.”

The Rev. Ward B. Ewing, dean of the seminary, said the transformation of the campus would rely on money generated from its new conference center and hotel, the air rights sale, the transformation of three town houses on the site to six duplexes — three for faculty housing and three to be sold at market rate — low-interest loans, and a capital campaign that has so far netted $4 million. Next year, a campaign will begin seeking an additional $15 million.

Tearing down Sherrill Hall, which includes the dean’s residence, means Mr. Ewing will be moving, albeit only a few hundred yards away. He and his wife, Jenny, will reside in an 1836 schist building whose leaded windows overlook the graceful town houses on 20th Street and the leafy playground of the day care center.

Ms. Leber said the “signature” renovation on the grounds is the seminary’s refectory, where the students and faculty dine. It covers 3,500 square feet and has a vaulted 35-foot-high ceiling studded with plaster coffers and banded with wooden arches. Pastel stained-glass windows, wainscoted walls with coat hooks, and a five-foot-high fireplace adorn the space, one that resembles the grand dining hall in Harry Potter’s Hogwarts.

“It’s a hidden gem in New York City,” said Ms. Leber, who also transformed and linked three historic buildings — covering some 60,000 square feet — into a conference center complex for 300 people and a 60-room hotel, where the spare chic design and pastoral views rival Manhattan’s trendiest rooms.

Known as the Desmond Tutu Center, the building opened in September with a temporary heating and cooling system. Temporary, because the seminary is building geothermal wells in a former parking lot to serve the Tutu Center.

“When we’re able to disconnect our two boilers that run off gas and oil, we’re able to eliminate 1,400 tons of carbon emissions” in a year, said Dennis Frawley, project manager for redevelopment of the campus.

The 10-inch-diameter wells are being drilled 1,500 feet through schist bedrock to water that is 50 to 60 degrees year-round.

Using a geothermal heat pump, heat is extracted from the earth in winter through a matrix of wells and buried pipes. In summer, the process is reversed, with heat from indoors released back into the ground through the pumps and wells where it is cooled and pumped back into the building, Mr. Frawley explained.

The master plan for the seminary is “green.” The idea is to install geothermal wells for all 19 buildings.

“There’s no other way to go; it was the right thing to do for the earth,” said Dean Ewing, who is renovating his historic Tennessee homestead in a similarly environmentally conscious manner. “The economic payoff in energy savings won’t come for more than a decade, but it’s worth it.”
493 2007-12-19 The framers were astute and thorough; they made clear their intent on the right to bear arms, as Mr. Freedman articulates well. Regan McCarthy

Adam Freedman correctly notes that the commas in the Second Amendment are of no interpretive significance, and that there is a logical relation between the amendment’s prefatory phrase and its operative clause.

But he goes astray when he assumes that “protecting militias” is the amendment’s only purpose. This conclusion is not dictated by grammar, and it is belied by the fact that “the people,” whose right to keep and bear arms is expressly protected by the amendment, includes many individuals who are not part of any militia.

Mr. Freedman also implies that I wrote a brief for the American Civil Rights Union, which I have not.

The writer is a professor of law at George Mason University.

The author’s diagramming of the Second Amendment to read, “Because a well regulated militia is necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms shall not be infringed,” is not an unreasonable one.

But what is the next step? What did a well-regulated militia consist of in colonial times? Were its arms kept in a central storage facility under lock and key, with ammunition stored elsewhere, as we do with today’s National Guard? I hardly think so.

The rationale behind this amendment is the decentralization of power into the hands of the individual and away from the state. Having one’s own weapons and serving in the militia went hand in hand; the latter was not a prerequisite for the former.

I would challenge anyone who takes the collective-rights approach to the Second Amendment to demonstrate otherwise. Joe Ryan

In his excellent analysis of the crafting of the Second Amendment, Adam Freedman does not mention my favorite hypothesis: that the framers adopted dueling clauses to reflect an intractable disagreement among themselves.

What was the primary need for an armed citizenry? To guard against oppression by the federal government, or against uprisings and attacks by the dissident elements in their midst — slaves, Indians and debtors?

Conflicts at the time and later, like the Shays and Nat Turner rebellions, lend support to both.

Then, as now, there was a divide between the haves and the have-nots and those who saw their interests as aligned or antagonistic to a strong central authority. Steven Wasserman

The writer is a lawyer at the Legal Aid Society and an adjunct professor of law at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, City University of New York.

Adam Freedman is entirely correct that the first 13 words of the Second Amendment form a clause that replicates the Latin ablative absolute, a point that is key to a correct interpretation of the amendment — namely, that it is the militia (or National Guard), not nonmilitary civilians, whose gun ownership right is protected.

Let us hope that the current Supreme Court justices remember enough of their Latin to understand Mr. Freedman’s argument. He also makes the inadvertent point of how important knowledge of classics is for understanding our history, and thus that Latin should be taught in the schools, a well-educated citizenry being essential to a well-functioning democracy.

The writer is emerita professor of English at the University of Maine.

Adam Freedman does well to remind us of the hazards of using punctuation to interpret laws. One rule of the boarding school I attended was, “Students are not permitted to smoke or possess tobacco in any form.”

We reasoned that the absence of a comma after “smoke” indicated that there was no injunction against smoking other substances, and we fashioned cigarettes from pieces of porous balsa wood wrapped in toilet paper. Awful as they were, we reveled in our cleverness.

When we were caught, the school’s gray eminences were unimpressed by our legal sophistication.
494 2007-12-19 But the deal fell through, and the Taylors got a shot. They offered the asking price of 686,000 euros (a little more than $872,000 at the time) and in November 2006 they moved into their manor house.

Circumstances were in their favor. They were able to keep their monthly mortgage payment to 1,500 euros ($2,165) — less than their rent in Paris — thanks to a hefty down payment funded by the sale of a weekend cottage they had bought three years earlier. It had appreciated 70 percent in that time. Also, the interest rate for their mortgage was a low 3.71 percent.

Chateau Blanc’s owners, who had raised five children in the house, had bittersweet feelings about selling it after 40 years.

“Our first thought was they would be reticent to sell to American expats,” Mr. Taylor said, “that they would worry the house would lose a little bit of French heritage.”

The 10-bedroom 450-square-meter (4,845-square-foot) white stone house, built in 1820, was in near-perfect condition, requiring only an upgrade of the electrical system. The rooms were decorated in classic French country style, their walls covered in flowered fabrics.

The Taylors immediately set out to redecorate the salon, the grandest room, and the adjacent entrance hall in a style that mixed their modern tastes with a nod to the home’s traditional pedigree. Mr. Taylor suggested repainting the foyer with plum and cream stripes and plum-colored wainscoting, accented with matching silk draperies, which frame views of cow pastures.

For the salon, which the German troops used as a stable during World War II, walls that had been covered with white and crimson fabric were painted taupe. Mrs. Taylor hung billowy curtains in a luminescent silk damask.

The Taylors’ furniture is a mix of traditional and modern — comfortable sofas mingling with antiques discovered during many visits to French flea markets. Antique seltzer bottles from Brooklyn and photographs of old New York scenes recall their life before France.

Renovation projects abound, including redecorating the walls in the master bedroom and converting the cavernous dining room into a party room, complete with a bar and dance floor.

One room that will remain untouched, at least for now, is the sunny corner library with its aqua-and-cream-flowered walls, dark leather furniture and a turn-of-the-century Pleyel baby grand piano, which was bought from the previous owners. For Mrs. Taylor, it offers a perfect place to sip morning coffee with a view of the front pasture, where the neighbor’s sheep come to graze.

“One of the pleasures of living in the country that I didn’t anticipate was how relaxing it is to have animals around you,” she said, and “to have sheep and peacocks and chickens, and our dog running around.”

In the evening, the salon, with its crackling fireplace and soft lighting, is where the couple relax with their 10-month-old son, Perry. It is also a perfect space for entertaining, something the Taylors were surprised to discover they do more often than they did in the capital.

“I have more French girlfriends than I ever did in Paris,” Mrs. Taylor said. “As a French experience, it’s more authentic.”

The watershed moment came when they threw a gala party last New Year’s Eve and did a very un-French thing: Inviting neighbors they barely knew. It was a hit, and they counted among their two dozen guests the deputy mayor and the village bakers, a husband-and-wife team who left early to fire up their oven.

“We were welcomed with open arms,” Mr. Taylor said. “A lot of it is because we try not be the ugly Americans. We try to assimilate, learn the language, respect the culture.”

The move was not without trade-offs. Mr. Taylor quickly realized that the one-and-a-half-hour twice-a-day train ride to Paris, where he works as an editor for Bloomberg News, was impractical. So he rents a studio apartment on the Left Bank and commutes home on weekends. Mrs. Taylor, a freelance marketing consultant, works in a home office where Gaston, their beagle-basset mix, can usually be found sleeping on a worn leather club chair.

Upkeep of Château Blanc is expensive. Drafty parquet floors built to breathe (to deter moss) help account for an annual 5,000 euro ($7,400) heating bill. A gardener tends to the property, which includes a fruit orchard, greenhouse, tennis court, small log cabin and duck pond. There is also a chicken coop, home to five roosters, 10 peacocks and 15 chickens, and the source of countless fresh omelets.

And during the raw Norman winters, it can get lonely. “I’m not going to lie,” Mrs. Taylor said. “When it’s dark and gray and rainy you think, ‘Yuck! I wish I were in Paris where there are people and lights.’ ”

But on a recent clear autumn day, as she zipped through curving traffic-free country lanes, those concerns seemed far away. “Unless something changes, this is ‘The House,’ ” Mrs. Taylor said. “For Perry, growing up here will be nice with all the animals and his little school that we can walk to.”

And, she added, with a nod to her new French roots, “he’ll be bilingual.”
495 2007-12-19 BERLIN — Signaling a thaw in relations that had chilled under the previous Polish government, Russia and Poland said Tuesday that they would hold consultations over plans by the United States to deploy elements of a missile-defense system in Eastern Europe.

The announcement in Moscow was welcomed by the NATO military alliance, which supports talks between the countries.

“NATO would certainly welcome the greatest possible bilateral consultations on the issue of the U.S. missile defense proposal, and not just in the NATO context,” said James Appathurai, an alliance spokesman. “We need to lower the temperature on this issue and move to common ground.”

In Moscow, Sergei V. Yastrzhembsky, an adviser to President Vladimir V. Putin, said the talks would be held in Warsaw early next year.

“I am happy there will be discussions over the missile defense shield,” he said. He added that the government of Jaroslaw Kaczynski, which was defeated in October by the center-right Civic Platform led by Donald Tusk, had refused to discuss the issue with Moscow.

On taking office, the Tusk government moved quickly to improve relations. Radoslaw Sikorski, the new foreign minister, held talks with his Russian counterpart, Sergey V. Lavrov, in Brussels this month at a meeting of NATO foreign ministers. Both agreed to start consultations over the antiballistic-missile shield, according to the Polish Foreign Ministry.

Russia has taken a tough stance against the American plan to deploy missile interceptors in Poland and a radar system in the Czech Republic, saying it would undermine Russia’s national security — a concern Warsaw, Prague and Washington have repeatedly dismissed. They maintain that the system was conceived to protect Europe from attacks by so-called rogue states.
496 2007-12-19 Silverstein, 23, said he played high school basketball in New Jersey and sponsors a summer basketball team at Rucker Park in Harlem.

“The guy is killing our team,” Silverstein said of Thomas. “How many 25-point beatings can we take?”

Silverstein said he carried some blank posterboard into the Garden on Monday night, intending to make a sign with a dark marker. Security guards confiscated it at halftime, even though nothing was written on it, he said.

Near the end of the game, Silverstein said, he made an impromptu sign by writing on a disposable food tray. After he held it up for about 45 seconds, he said, security guards said: “Get up. You’re going. You’re out.” Silverstein said he cooperated because, “I didn’t want to cause a ruckus.”

For Wednesday’s rally, in addition to the pink slip, Nathan said his group will carry picket signs with messages like “Save the Knicks,” “Dump Isiah,” “Give Him the Pink Slip” and “Restore Knicks Pride.”

“I’m getting disgusted,” said Nathan, who is 67. “And James Dolan is not going to do a darn thing. We hope we have thousands of people. It’ll be a beautiful sight to see.”

The group has told the Police Department that the demonstration will probably include about 15 people, said Officer Martin Brown, a police spokesman, and last for about 30 minutes.

Nathan said he had followed the team since “the McGuire boys at the old Garden,” and added that his group would conduct its demonstration behind a police barricade.

“They are perfectly within their rights,” said Brown, who added that a permit would be needed only for a large number of people or use of a sound system.

Jonathan Supranowitz, a Knicks spokesman, said the team had no comment about the proposed demonstration.

Supranowitz had more to say about Silverstein’s “Fire Isiah” sign. Supranowitz said Silverstein was in a section where seats sell for $330 and had a valid ticket. His sign was removed, Supranowitz said, because it might have blocked the view of other spectators.

Supranowitz said security guards escorted the man to the corridor behind the seats and watched him walk away, but did not eject him. Supranowitz said the heckling and sign-waving recently directed against Thomas are “not against the law, it’s just against our policy.”

The policy, which is detailed on the Web site thegarden.com, said in part that “signs may not be derogatory in any manner” and “they cannot block the view of other guests.” Violators, the policy said, can have their sign confiscated and may face ejection.

Supranowitz said the Knicks would not reveal how many fans have had signs confiscated recently, how many have been warned about heckling, or how many have been ejected for violating either policy.

The heckler who was warned last week, Michael Katz, an accountant from Westchester County, was not ejected and voluntarily moved to another seat.

The card he was handed read, in part, “You are being issued a warning that the comments, gestures and/or behaviors that you have directed at players, coaches, game officials and/or other spectators constitute excessive verbal abuse.”

Of course, in addition to the actions and words of individuals, fans as a group have chanted “Fire Isiah” during recent defeats.
497 2007-12-19 Swiss Scuttle Auction      Of Ancient Tablet...
498 2007-12-19 President Bush has approved ''a significant reduction'' in the nation's nuclear weapons stockpile, cutting it to less than one-quarter its size at the end of the cold war, the White House said Tuesday.     At the same time, the Energy Department a...
499 2007-12-19 Norman Mailer Papers     To Be Opened...
500 2007-12-19 FED PROPOSES MORTGAGE RULES  The Federal Reserve proposed  restrictions on exotic mortgages and high-cost loans for consumers with weak credit. New rules would force lenders to show that customers can realistically afford their mortgages.         ...
501 2007-12-20 Apple settled its suit against Think Secret and the site agreed to close. Lawyers say Apple likely made a substantial payment to ThinkSecret’s founder, Nick Ciarelli, who says other bloggers should be emboldened....
502 2007-12-20 A business research firm tries to estimate the “cost of unnecessary interruptions” in terms of lost productivity and innovation....
503 2007-12-20 Getting behind the wheel was her first mistake, police say. Not her last, though....
504 2007-12-20 Images from the show at the Baltimore Museum of Art....
505 2007-12-20 A regular stroll helps keep the mind sharp, a new study shows....
506 2007-12-20 Business software isn't the most glamorous of businesses, and December isn't the greatest time for initial public offerings - but none of that seemed to matter to NetSuite. Its shares priced at $26 apiece late Wednesday, far above the expected pri...
507 2007-12-20 Nissan Motor, Japan's third-largest carmaker, is in talks with Chrysler on a possible manufacturing agreement, Nissan's chief executive, Carlos Ghosn, said. Nissan and Chrysler may cooperate on production, Mr. Ghosn told reporters Wednesday in Sao...
508 2007-12-20 Biffa, a British landfill operator and trash collector, said Wednesday that it's prepared to accept a proposed 1.22 billion-pound ($2.46 billion) takeover from Montagu Private Equity and HgCapital. The board agreed to give the buyers access to com...
509 2007-12-20 Shares of Umbro, the seller of soccer-related goods, rose Wednesday after a major shareholder said he may support Nike's 285 million pound ($569 million) bid for the company. The 10 percent gain came after Mike Ashley, the billionaire who owns a m...
510 2007-12-20 BSkyB, the British satellite broadcaster controlled by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, should cut its stake in broadcaster ITV to below 7.5 percent because it reduces competition in the TV market and works against the public interest, the Briti...
511 2007-12-20 The Federal Communications Commission on Wednesday approved the $16.4 billion buyout of satellite company Intelsat a group led by a London private equity firm, BC Partners. In June, BC Partners and other investors announced buying 76 percent of In...
512 2007-12-20 Nanotechnology companies, nurtured on billions of dollars in government grants and venture investments through most of this decade, are getting ready to go public. Being near taking such a step is another stage in the evolution of nanotechnology, ...
513 2007-12-20 Microsoft and Viacom team up on ads and content, and Google quickly points to the deal as evidence that the online ad market is plenty competitive....
514 2007-12-20 DETROIT — General Motors said Thursday that it had agreed to sell its medium-duty truck business to Navistar International, an Illinois-based maker of trucks and diesel engines.

The companies did not disclose terms of the deal, which they expect to close on in 2008. Analysts have estimated the unit, which includes the GMC TopKick and Chevrolet Kodiak, to be worth about $500 million with annual revenue of $2 billion.

G.M. has been shedding assets outside of its core operations to increase liquidity and focus on its turnaround. In the last year, it has sold controlling stakes in its finance arm, the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, and its Allison Transmission unit.

Navistar, which was formerly known as International Harvester, plans to move production of the TopKick and Kodiak to one of its own factories, although it did not say where. G.M. will retain ownership of the Flint, Mich., plant that currently builds them.

The trucks will continue to be sold at G.M. dealers.

“Navistar’s expertise in building International brand commercial trucks and its track record in the medium-duty segment makes them an excellent choice to acquire and continue growing the business,” said Troy Clarke, the president of G.M.’s North American operations. “We intend to work closely with Navistar to make this transition seamless to our dealers and customers.”

Navistar has been vocal about its interest in G.M.’s medium-duty unit, which built 59,000 vehicles last year, earning 12 percent of the market.

“We are proud to incorporate the G.M. truck brands into our portfolio, and will utilize the scale to build on the success of both the International and G.M. product lines and their respective distribution networks,” said Navistar’s chairman and chief executive, Daniel C. Ustian.
515 2007-12-20 Explosions and fires at a chemical plant in Jacksonville killed four people, injured at least 14 and sent debris flying several stories into the air, fire officials and witnesses said. It was not clear what caused the explosions about 1:30 p.m. at the T2 Laboratories plant, which makes chemical solvents and fuel additives, said Tom Francis, a fire rescue spokesman. Everyone at the plant was accounted for by Wednesday evening. Hospitals reported one patient in critical condition, three fair and five good. Conditions for the rest were unknown.
516 2007-12-20 The emissions standards California proposed in 2004 — but never approved by the federal government — would have forced automakers to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 30 percent in new cars and light trucks by 2016, with the cutbacks to begin in 2009 models.

That would have translated into roughly 43 miles per gallon for cars and some light trucks and about 27 miles per gallon for heavier trucks and sport utility vehicles.

The new federal law will require automakers to meet a 35-mile-per-gallon fleetwide standard for cars and trucks sold in the by 2020. It does not address carbon dioxide emissions, but such emissions would be reduced as cars were forced to become more fuel efficient.

California’s proposed rules had sought to address the impact of carbon dioxide and other pollutants from cars and trucks that scientists say contribute to the warming of the planet.

Gov. of California said the states would go to federal court to reverse the E.P.A. decision.

“It is disappointing that the federal government is standing in our way and ignoring the will of tens of millions of people across the nation,” Mr. Schwarzenegger said. “We will continue to fight this battle.”

He added, “California sued to compel the agency to act on our waiver, and now we will sue to overturn today’s decision and allow Californians to protect our environment.”

Twelve other states — New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, , , , , , , , and Washington — had proposed standards like California’s, and the governors of , , and said they would do the same.

If the waiver had been granted and the 16 other states had adopted the California standard, it would have covered at least half of all vehicles sold in the United States.

Automakers praised the decision. “We commend E.P.A. for protecting a national, 50-state program,” said David McCurdy, president of the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers. “Enhancing energy security and improving fuel economy are priorities to all automakers, but a patchwork quilt of inconsistent and competing fuel economy programs at the state level would only have created , inefficiency and uncertainty for automakers and consumers.”

Industry analysts and environmental groups said the E.P.A. decision had the appearance of a reward to the industry, in return for dropping its opposition to the energy legislation. Auto industry leaders issued statements supporting the new energy law, which gives them more time to improve fuel economy than California would have.

The California attorney general, Edmund G. Brown Jr., called the decision “absurd.” He said the decision ignored a long history of waivers granted California to deal with its special topographical, climate and transportation circumstances, which require tougher air quality standards than those set nationally.

Mr. Brown noted that federal courts in California and Vermont upheld the California standards this year against challenges by the auto industry.

Senator , the California Democrat, said: “I find this disgraceful. The passage of the energy bill does not give the E.P.A a green light to shirk its responsibility to protect the health and safety of the American people from air pollution.”

Representative , Democrat of California and chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said the E.P.A. decision defied law, science and common sense. He said his committee would investigate how the decision had been made and would seek to reverse it.

, the attorney general of Connecticut, called the ruling a “mockery of law and sound public policy.”

, the New York attorney general, said the state would challenge the decision.

Mr. Johnson, the E.P.A. administrator, cited federal law, not science, as the underpinning of his decision. “Climate change affects everyone regardless of where greenhouse gases occur, so California is not exclusive,” he said.

Mary Nichols, the head of the California Air Resources Board, which had geared up to enforce the proposed emissions rules on 2009-model cars, said the reasoning was flawed. “Thirty-five miles per gallon is not the same thing as a comprehensive program for reducing greenhouse gases,” Ms. Nichols said.

David Doniger, a lawyer for the , said that since 1984, the agency has not distinguished between local, national and international air pollution.

“All the smog problems that California has are shared with other states, just like the global warming problems they have are shared with other states,” he said.
517 2007-12-20 Mr. Lord, the driving force behind the company’s rapid expansion in recent years, now confronts fresh doubts about his leadership. Several shareholders were re-evaluating who was to blame for the recent collapse of the company’s buyout. Two shareholders said the call, which was meant to win over investors, instead inspired a “crisis of confidence” in Mr. Lord’s management.

A spokesman for Sallie Mae said that the company would give fuller guidance on its condition next month and declined to comment on the call or the stock price drop.

Shareholders certainly had much they wanted to hear about. On Friday, Sallie Mae appointed Mr. Lord, then its executive chairman, to be chief executive, a move that baffled some. The company also said that he had sold more than 1.2 million shares to meet a margin call by the company.

Beyond that, shareholders hoped to hear Mr. Lord’s perspective on the buyout offer that Sallie Mae received this summer from a group of investors. The deal began to fall apart after lawmakers passed legislation cutting government subsidies to student lenders.

Efforts by those buyers — including the private equity firm J. C. Flowers & Company, Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase — to renegotiate the price fell apart, leading the consortium to try to walk away. Now both Sallie Mae and its proposed buyers await a court battle, scheduled for July in Delaware.

The bigger issue for Sallie Mae is the turmoil in the credit markets, which has cut off the company’s ability to package the loans it makes into securities for sale to investors. The company has since relied on expensive alternate funding from JPMorgan and Bank of America, which is seeking to replace.

But instead of explaining how Sallie Mae would weather those setbacks, Mr. Lord gave what amounted to a prickly defense of himself and his company’s conduct. Investors, analysts and reporters fixed onto the vagueness of his prepared remarks, which he wrote himself.

Many focused on his give-and-take with analysts afterward. Mr. Lord brusquely told one analyst he would not entertain any more multi-part questions. He repeatedly and insistently referred another analyst’s question — what he expected 2008’s market to look like — to Sallie Mae’s head of investor relations.

“Yes, that’s exactly right,” Mr. Lord said. “I’m the C.E.O. You should give Steve a call. Next question.”

Then came the joke about the metal detector.

But worst of all was the end of the call. As the operator asked if there were any more questions, Mr. Lord could be heard using an expletive in telling another executive that they should leave.

The biggest shame, Mr. Snowling said, was that the attention to Mr. Lord’s word choice obscured some good news. The tightness of the credit markets affects not just Sallie Mae, but all student lenders, and Mr. Lord said during the call that his company would seek to increase its market share by buying smaller lenders’ portfolios.

After the call, Mr. Snowling downgraded Sallie Mae to market perform from outperform. Even so, he said the company was better equipped than many rivals to emerge healthy from today’s market troubles. Several shareholders said they believed in the underlying strength of the company as well.

“There’s a real desire among investors to own the stock,” Mr. Snowling said. “They just need the confidence. That didn’t get delivered today.”
518 2007-12-20 WASHINGTON — Turkey provided the United States with ample warning that it was making an incursion into Iraq this week, officials from the State and Defense Departments said Wednesday.

The question of whether Turkish authorities gave their counterparts adequate warning percolated after some American officials in Washington and Baghdad said the two countries needed to improve communication, administration officials said.

While the United States provided Turkey with the intelligence to go after Kurdish rebels in northern Iraq, there has been some mild grumbling from the State Department that not everyone up the chain of command was adequately informed beforehand. A senior administration official said most of that concern centered on Turkey’s decision to “chase some bad guys they followed over the border.”

Turkish troops carried out a brief attack into northern Iraq overnight Monday. The Turkish military, in a statement on its Web site, said the troops had inflicted heavy losses on the Kurdish forces after spotting them trying to cross into Turkey.

The operation took place two days after Turkey carried out broad airstrikes in northern Iraq against the group. The United States provided intelligence and opened Iraqi airspace for the strikes, American and Turkish officials said. Iraqi officials have protested the attacks.
519 2007-12-20 The Nissan Motor Company, Japan’s third-largest carmaker, is in talks with Chrysler on a possible manufacturing agreement, the chief executive of Nissan, Carlos Ghosn, said on Wednesday.

“There have been talks between Nissan and Chrysler,” Mr. Ghosn said. The meetings have been a discussion about original-equipment manufacturing, “not talks for an alliance accord,” he said.

Mr. Ghosn confirmed the talks after reports last week that Nissan and Chrysler, the third-largest American carmaker, may share technology to develop pickups, small cars and engines.

Chrysler and Nissan executives have said they are seeking alliances and partnerships to pare manufacturing costs and expand.
520 2007-12-20 SAN FRANCISCO — A man and his three children who disappeared in the snowy woods last weekend were found shivering, but alive, by rescuers on Wednesday, in a three-day saga that began with a hunt for a Christmas tree and ended with what rescuers called a Christmas miracle.

The man, Frederick Dominguez, and his three children, Christopher, 18, Alexis, 15, and Joshua, 12, disappeared Sunday in a heavy forested area near Paradise, Calif., 150 miles north of San Francisco. The family had driven their pickup truck into the forest to hunt for a tree, said the authorities, who found their vehicle on a remote rural road late Monday, after the children’s mother reported them missing.

Since then, rescuers had battled bad weather — including a foot of snow and chest-high drifts — and poor visibility in their search. But about midday Wednesday, a helicopter crew from the California Highway Patrol spotted the family in a canyon west of their vehicle, even as another storm approached.

“They had a minimal break in the weather, and they were doing their sweeps,” said Madde Watts, a member of a search and rescue team with the Butte County Sheriff’s Department. “And on their last sweep, they saw the family jumping up and down.”

Ms. Watts said the family appeared to be in good condition, and had used a drainage culvert under a logging road to stay out of the elements. The family was airlifted out of the forest and taken to a nearby hospital for a checkup; local news reports showed the children, walking on their own, wrapped in blankets and wearing parkas as they entered the hospital. Sgt. Steve Rowe of the Paradise Police Department said the family had suffered some hypothermia.

More than 100 rescuers from across Northern California had joined in the hunt for the family.

“Not only were they happy,” Ms. Watts said of the rescued family, “we were all happy.”
521 2007-12-20 The proposed steps are subject to approval by the European Parliament and the 27 member governments, and automakers promised months and possibly years of lobbying.

The announcement was the culmination of a year of fierce battles involving the commission, the union’s executive arm, and individual carmakers over how to meet a goal of reducing carbon dioxide emissions to 120 grams a kilometer, or 192 grams a mile, by 2012.

Ten grams of that reduction would come from the introduction of cleaner fuel and from parts like tires and air-conditioning systems.

The current average for cars sold in Europe is about 160 grams a kilometer. European carmakers had previously been asked to meet a voluntary target of 140 grams by 2008.

The rules would apply to new cars sold in the 200 billion euro ($288 billion) auto market, including those sold by manufacturers based in the United States, Japan and South Korea, like General Motors, Toyota and Hyundai.

None of the 17 major manufacturers selling cars in Europe, including producers of smaller vehicles like Fiat, currently meet the proposed targets.

Automotive industry specialists warned that the measures would come at a substantial cost and that manufacturers were likely to pass on some of those costs to buyers.

Compliance will cost producers an average of 1,500 euros ($2,157) to 3,000 euros ($4,314) for each car to pay for efficiency-enhancing technologies, said Sarwant Singh, director of the European automotive practice at the Frost & Sullivan consultancy in London.

“The result is that consumers are just going to have to dish out more money and change their driving behavior in the future,” Mr. Singh said.

Mr. Dimas said the average car price would increase about 1,300 euros ($1,870), but the costs would be more than offset by reduced fuel bills.

German manufacturers have lobbied most forcefully to dilute the legislation, saying they feared that the industry would face huge payouts to compensate for the sales of heavy and polluting cars like the Mercedes-Benz. The manufacturer furthest from meeting the new goal is Porsche, according to European officials.

But French companies including Renault and Peugeot, although they rely on lighter and less-polluting vehicles than the German makers, were also wary, saying they feared that the large numbers of cars they produced could incur big fines for even marginal violations of the limit.

In October, the European Parliament recommended a less stringent limit of 125 grams a kilometer and said the measures should be delayed until 2015, in part, members said, because of intense lobbying by the German auto industry.

A spokeswoman for Volkswagen, Ines Roessler, said the 2012 deadline was too early, partly because 60 percent of the company’s cars for sale that year were already in production.

On Wednesday, Mr. Dimas outlined details of the measures that he said should help carmakers adapt to the rules and become more globally competitive as consumers demand that products like automobiles become much more eco-friendly.

Fines would be phased in over four years rather than imposed at high levels, beginning in 2012. They would start at 20 euros for each excess gram and rise to 95 euros a gram in 2015.

“We think this scale of fines cumulatively will be a deterrent, and the correct incentive for the innovations to be done by 2012,” Mr. Dimas said.

And in a concession to the German manufacturers, heavier cars will be subject to less onerous fleet-average standards.

The rules would also allow manufacturers that exceeded the limits to pool their emissions with less-polluting manufacturers — a provision that could create the basis for an industrywide system of emissions trading.

The debate Wednesday sharply divided the European Commission. Johannes Laitenberger, a spokesman for Mr. Barroso, said a consensus had been reached, but that a number of commissioners were dissatisfied enough with the result to register their reservations in writing.

He declined to name the commissioners or describe their reservations, but the European industry commissioner, Günter Verheugen, a German, has been forcefully pushing for lower fines on vehicle makers so as not to jeopardize the health of the industry.

Environmental advocates say that transportation has been the worst-performing European sector regulated under the Kyoto Protocol, with emissions having steadily risen in the last two decades.
522 2007-12-20 His honors include a 1993 Winsor McCay Award from the International Animated Film Society. (The award recognizes lifetime contributions in animation.) Not bad, Mr. Zander’s colleagues said in interviews Wednesday, for a man who had no concept of what an animator actually did when he took his first job in 1930.

Arthur Jack Zander was born on May 3, 1908, in Kalamazoo, Mich., and moved with his family to Hollywood as a teenager. Intending to be a fine artist, he studied at the Chouinard Art Institute in Los Angeles. (It is now the California Institute of the Arts.)

One day a call came in to the Chouinard office. Romer Grey, a son of the Western novelist Zane Grey, had started an animation studio in his father’s garage. He needed animators. The receptionist stuck her head into the lobby, where Mr. Zander and a friend happened to be sitting.

Mr. Zander, as he later said in interviews, had no idea what an animator was. But it was the start of the Depression.

“Yes!” he shouted, and so his career began.

For the next two decades Mr. Zander honed his craft at a series of studios, including Warner Brothers (where, for $14 a week, he worked on Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies cartoons) and MGM, where he did “Tom and Jerry” under the direction of the animators William Hanna and Joseph Barbera. During World War II Mr. Zander served in the Army Signal Corps, where he made animated training films.

Mr. Zander’s wife, the former Beth Wasem, whom he married in 1941, died in 1978. He is survived by six children, Kathryn Muller of Pittsburgh; Mark, of Pawling, N.Y., who runs his father’s business (now called Zander Productions); Maggie Zander Orling of North Salem, N.Y.; Jane Sussman of Cambridge, Mass.; Peter, of Katonah, N.Y.; and David, of Pasadena, Calif.; 12 grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.

After the war Mr. Zander turned to commercial animation. His first ad, for Chiclets gum in 1947, featured a string of Chiclets boxes made into a little train. In 1954 he formed his first studio, Pelican Films.

During this period Mr. Zander was known for giving work to left-wing artists who had been blacklisted in Hollywood, his family and colleagues said on Wednesday. (A commercial, after all, has no telltale credit sequence.) Mr. Zander later started Zander’s Animation Parlour.

“‘P-a-r-l-o-u-r,’ very elegant,” he explained in an interview with Animation World magazine this year.

A distinctive feature of the studio was its reception area, which Mrs. Zander decorated with red plush walls. It looked, Mr. Zander said — though not in quite these words — like a house of ill repute.

“We made out just fine,” he added. “This was 1970.”
523 2007-12-20 An activist hedge fund that has feuded with the railroad operator CSX over its strategy proposed a slate of five alternate directors on Wednesday, beginning a proxy fight.

The hedge fund, the Children’s Investment Fund, teamed up with 3G Capital Management, another hedge fund company, in proposing the board candidates. Together, the two hold some 8.3 percent of CSX, plus derivative holdings whose exposure is equivalent to 11.8 percent, the funds said in a statement.

The move constituted an escalation in hostilities between Children’s Investment and CSX over the company’s spending and corporate governance structure.

In their statement, the two funds said their nominees would “strengthen CSX’s board by adding strong independent directors with a shareholder orientation, a broad range of railroad and other relevant experience, and a firm commitment to improving CSX’s operating performance and corporate governance.”

Two months ago, Children’s Investment Fund made public a letter it sent to CSX’s directors, contending that although it had tried for months to reach management, CSX executives refused to hold substantive discussions about the company’s spending.
524 2007-12-20 LOS ANGELES (Reuters) — Nike, the world’s largest maker of athletic footwear and apparel, said Wednesday that its quarterly net profit jumped 10 percent, helped by strong international demand.

The company, known for its “swoosh” logo as well as brands like Converse, Hurley and Cole Haan, said net profit in the fiscal second quarter of 2008 rose to $359.4 million, or 71 cents a share, from $325.6 million, or 64 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales increased 14 percent, to $4.34 billion.

Wall Street, on average, expected the company, based in Beaverton, Ore., to report earnings of 66 cents on revenue of $4.22 billion, according to Reuters Estimates.

Nike, which recently announced it would buy the British soccer brand Umbro, has managed to largely remain unaffected by a slump among American mall-based retailers for athletic shoes. The company’s diversification helps it manage during periods of slower spending, according to analysts.
525 2007-12-20 Wall Street ended a volatile session mixed on Wednesday as investors wrestled with a troubling outlook for bond insurers and a $9.4 billion write-down at Morgan Stanley.

Morgan Stanley, however, managed to get a $5 billion investment from an arm of the Chinese government, and the Federal Reserve said its Monday auction of $20 billion in 28-day credit was met with solid demand — signs that there is cash out there to help the struggling banking industry recover.

But with just seven trading days left in 2007 and little data to convince Wall Street that the economy is on the upswing, investors hesitated to make any big bets on stocks.

The stock market rose in early trading but gave back gains after Standard & Poor’s lowered its outlook for bond insurers, suggesting that the ratings on the bonds the companies insure may be headed lower. S.& P. cut the credit rating of ACA Financial Guaranty and put Financial Guaranty Insurance, another bond insurer, on watch for a downgrade. Problems with bond insurers, which have guaranteed billions of dollars in mortgage-backed securities, could force banks to take on billions in losses they had insured against.

The Dow Jones industrial average fell 25.20, or 0.19 percent, to 13,207.27.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 1.98, or 0.14 percent, to 1,453, but the Nasdaq composite index added 4.98, or 0.19 percent, to 2,601.01.
526 2007-12-20 MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — The food maker General Mills reported a slightly higher profit in its latest quarter on Wednesday, as stronger sales offset rising costs for ingredients and price increases did not faze consumers.

The company, which makes Cheerios cereal, Yoplait yogurt and Progresso soup, also affirmed its earnings guidance for the year, saying it has plans in place to counter what it expects will be continued increases in grain, dairy and energy costs.

General Mills earned $390.5 million, or $1.14 a share, in its second quarter, which ended Nov. 25, compared with $385.4 million, or $1.08 a share, in the period a year ago. Revenue climbed 7 percent to $3.70 billion from $3.47 billion a year earlier.

Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial expected net income of $1.13 a share on sales of $3.62 billion. The earnings estimates typically exclude one-time items.

While the company beat expectations for quarterly profit, it maintained a lower-than-expected forecast for the year ending in May 2008.
527 2007-12-20 Some pedestrians stopped for a few moments to listen out of curiosity, but not everyone was supportive. Natasha Charles, who said she was headed to work at New York Lawyers for Public Interest, stopped to debate a few demonstrators.

“Seriously, of all the things you could protest, I can’t believe this,” she said. “Compared to the jerk we have in the White House, this is minutiae.” She added: This is ridiculous. This is embarrassing.”

But another member of the legal community offered a rebuttal. He was Norman Siegel, a civil rights lawyer and former executive director of the New York Civil Liberties Union. Siegel said he was a lifelong Knicks fan and objected to the Garden’s recent efforts to curb protests inside the arena.

“We’re outspoken, we’re zany, we’re a little nutty at times,” Siegel said of New York sports fans. “This is our team, even though the Dolans own it.”

James L. Dolan is the Garden’s chairman. The petition was addressed to him.

Siegel said there was no First Amendment protection for fans to speak out inside a private building like the Garden. During Monday’s game, a fan holding a “Fire Isiah” sign had his message confiscated by security guards, who led him out of his courtside seat.

Last week, another fan heckling Thomas from a few rows behind the bench was given a written warning to stop heckling or face ejection.

Siegel said the Garden’s enforcement of its policy against heckling and signs was selective and that guards never sought to stop derogatory and off-color chants about the Boston Celtics.

Siegel said a determined lawyer might bring a contract action against the Garden because the purchase of a ticket gives a fan the implied right to express his opinion.

“Chanting and yelling should be protected,” Siegel said, adding that the City Council should reconsider a tax break the Garden gets. Around him, fans were chanting “Dump Isiah” and “Let’s Go Knicks.”

Some fans also carried printed newspaper pages with “Fire Isiah” in large type. They were from Wednesday’s edition of The Daily News. Jonathan Supranowitz, a Knicks spokesman, was asked how the Garden would deal with such signs if fans carried them inside.

“Having a ‘Fire Isiah’ sign does not get one ejected from our arena,” Supranowitz wrote in an e-mail message. “Violating our policy does.”

The policy reads in part that “signs may not be derogatory in any manner” and “they cannot block the view of other guests.”

The scene was relatively tranquil Wednesday night as the Knicks took a 63-50 halftime lead over the Cavaliers. A young woman in a striped shirt about six rows from the floor held a handmade sign that said “Fire Isiah.” She lifted it during a timeout and also raised it while the ball was in play. When she did this in the final minute of the first quarter, a man in a red sweater, sitting behind her, snatched the sign.

Near the end of the second quarter, a man about 20 rows from the court held a sign that said, “I am at the last game Isiah ever coached.” Although he held it up during play and kept it raised for several seconds, and was sitting next to a security guard and an usher, they did not take away his sign.

One man held up a sign that said, “Don’t Fire Isiah.”

At the demonstration, fans broke out into the “Nah-nah-nah-nah, hey-hey, goodbye” song. Car horns honked. A police siren wailed. A man walking by shouted: “Go home! Don’t you have better things to do?”

Nathan, wearing a blue Knicks cap, whipped out a small white towel that he said was from 1973 when the Knicks won the N.B.A. championship. He waved it. Someone told him to throw it. He threw it. It landed on the sidewalk.

“I have not been so sad since the Brooklyn Dodgers left Brooklyn,” Nathan said, referring to the state of his beloved Knicks. Siegel said that he, too, was from Brooklyn and missed the Dodgers, who moved 50 years ago.

But the discussion soon returned to the present-day basketball team. “I love the Knicks,” Siegel said. “But it’s a mess.”
528 2007-12-20 In 1966, WPIX in New York broadcast a video loop of a burning Yule log on Christmas Eve, creating a tradition that has stood the test of time and, it seems, technical advances. In 2007, we have iYule, a 30-minute downloadable video of a burning Yule log for cellphones, computers and HDTVs.

IYule, created by Cali Lewis, a video blogger, and Geoff Smith, a musician, comes in several video formats. A $5 low-resolution package is just right for iPods and small video players, while a $10 package comes with multiple files, including versions with and without Mr. Smith’s calming holiday-themed soundtrack.

The video itself is simply a cozy shot of a burning log, complete with pops, hisses and sizzling sap. It is available online at iYule.tv and is compatible with most phones that have video playback ability, along with Apple TV and the Xbox 360. While it doesn’t beat the real thing, it’s nice to have a little holiday cheer right on your Zune for the long subway ride to Grandma’s apartment. JOHN BIGGS
529 2007-12-20 The government’s widely publicized plan to run free buses from Damascus, Syria, to Baghdad was suspended after just two runs. Thousands of Sunni refugees get no aid because they fear registering with the Shiite-led government. While aid organizations are distributing emergency packets that include utensils, blankets and food, deeper structural issues, like securing neighborhoods, supplying housing and creating jobs, remain unresolved and largely unaddressed.

A small fraction of the millions of refugees who fled Iraq have come back. While the government trumpeted their return as proof of newfound security, migration experts said most of them were forced back by expired visas and depleted savings. Ms. Hashim, for one, pawned her wedding ring and gold jewelry to stay in Syria, but came back after her uncle’s visa application was denied.

The American military has expressed deep concerns about the Iraqi government’s ability to feed and house its returnees, or manage people who wish to reclaim their homes. It is widely feared that property disputes or efforts to return to newly homogenized neighborhoods could set off fresh waves of sectarian attacks.

For most Iraqi refugees, the trip home is just the beginning of their troubles. Many return to find their homes destroyed or filled with squatters, most of them displaced people themselves. But the government committee that decides property disputes is charged with hearing only cases that predate the invasion of 2003.

“We urgently need a plan; the whole government needs to be involved,” said Hamdiya A. Najaf, an official with the Iraqi Ministry of Displacement and Migration. Her ministry is overloaded with property dispute cases from Saddam Hussein’s time, when thousands were forcibly relocated. “We’re still working on the old problems,” she said. “We don’t have the mechanism to solve the new ones.”

The brewing housing crisis extends to millions who abandoned their homes but stayed in Iraq. In Baghdad alone, more than 300,000 people left one neighborhood for another, as Sunnis fled to the west and Shiites to the east, often moving into recently evacuated houses.

Afraah Kadhom’s family is among the uprooted. She is 36, and usually shrouded in a billowing black abaya, a symbol of mourning. Her father and four brothers were killed two years ago when gunmen broke through the doors to the family’s house in Huriya, a neighborhood in north central Baghdad, and methodically hunted the men down. One of her brother’s sons, Mustafa, cradled his father’s head as the man lay dying. Mustafa, who is 9 now and shy, is the oldest surviving male member of the family. “The man of our house,” Ms. Kadhom said.

The family stayed in Huriya until last December, when armed Shiite militiamen swept through, routing more than 100 Sunni families, including Ms. Kadhom’s. Ms. Kadhom and her relatives fled to Ghazaliya, in western Baghdad, where an imam found them an apartment belonging to a Shiite family that had left for eastern Baghdad.

The government has aid programs that could help Ms. Kadhom, but she views them with deep suspicion. To apply for the food program, for example, she would have to return to Huriya to unregister the family with the local council, but she is desperately afraid of going there.

Iraq’s internally displaced are entitled to 150,000 dinars, or $123, a month from the government. But Ms. Kadhom also worries that the Shiite-dominated government would punish her if she applied. Her pride is also a factor. Ms. Kadhom’s father was a sheik. The family was used to giving alms, not asking for them.

If the apartment’s owners come back, Ms. Kadhom’s family will have nowhere to go. Three weeks after her family fled, its house was bombed and the rubble bulldozed away.

“The Shiites who moved into the homes near our property in Huriya, they will kill us if we go back,” she said.

The housing situation in Baghdad resembles a fraught game of musical chairs. Some displaced people are renting refugees’ homes; others moved in secretly or by force. Still others, like Ms. Kadhom and Ms. Hashim, have nowhere to move back to, either because their homes are gone or their neighborhoods are unsafe. And as refugees return in greater numbers, and find strangers, especially strangers from a different sect, living in their homes, security gains here could be erased.

“If these people become desperate, we’re going back to square one,” said Dr. Said Hakki, director of the Iraqi Red Crescent Society. “The Iraqi government is aware of it and so is General Petraeus’s office,” he said, referring to Gen. David H. Petraeus, the top American commander here.

Yet the American forces here have emphasized repeatedly that they do not want to get involved in property disputes, and the Iraqi government appears to be ignoring calls from its own ranks to step up the appeals process.

Ms. Najaf, the migration official, said she had been pleading with government ministers to create an emergency plan to rebuild homes and tackle recent property disputes. She says only the prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, has the power to find a solution. But she has had trouble even reaching him by phone.

“Iraqis by nature can be nervous, easily agitated,” she said. “If they see another person in their homes, who knows what will happen next. All Iraqis have pistols.”

Local courts offer the only official means of settling the more recent property disputes. But migration officials say that they are backlogged and move at a glacial pace, and that in any event their decisions are rarely enforced. The responsibility for resolving property disputes, those few that are addressed, often falls to city council members or tribal sheiks.

Dhia’a al-Dien, 42, an engineer, leads the local council in the area of Haifa Street where Ms. Hashim and her family now live. Haifa Street used to be one of the most turbulent neighborhoods in Baghdad, and its middle class fled as kidnappings and mob-style street killings soared.

When squatters descended on some apartments, Mr. Dien said he felt helpless. “They were displaced from other neighborhoods. I felt pity for some of them. Others had weapons, the invaders. There was such chaos.”

Mr. Dien said he had been able to negotiate the return process for the handful of owners who have reclaimed their buildings. Some of the squatters left; others agreed to pay rent. But hundreds of the apartments’ owners have yet to return, and he fears getting stuck in the middle when they do.

“There’s no one helping us negotiate the return,” he said, shaking his head. “The Americans are telling us that we’ve got to negotiate between each other, because it’s not their business. But the Iraqi government said it’s not their business either.”
530 2007-12-20 PARIS — The state prosecutor for serious economic crimes charged the Christmas Tree Growers Association with anticompetitive price fixing and said he would bring the growers to court in the spring.

Denmark, a major grower of the Nordmann pine, exports about 10 million trees a year, mainly to Germany, Britain and France.

“We accuse them of having guided their members on what prices to expect or take,” the prosecutor, Hans Jakob Folker, told Reuters. The Growers Association said prices rose, by as much as 20 percent, because of a shortage of trees when some left the business after an oversupply led prices to collapse a few years ago.
531 2007-12-20 PARIS — The state prosecutor for serious economic crimes charged the Christmas Tree Growers Association with anticompetitive price fixing and said he would bring the growers to court in the spring.

Denmark, a major grower of the Nordmann pine, exports about 10 million trees a year, mainly to Germany, Britain and France.

“We accuse them of having guided their members on what prices to expect or take,” the prosecutor, Hans Jakob Folker, told Reuters. The Growers Association said prices rose, by as much as 20 percent, because of a shortage of trees when some left the business after an oversupply led prices to collapse a few years ago.
532 2007-12-20 An article last Thursday about people whose pets become difficult houseguests misstated the surname of a woman who took her dog to a meeting at the home of a former boss, and misstated her current profession. She is Rosi Kerr, not Kerry, and she works in sales for an energy company; she is not an energy consultant.
533 2007-12-20 “After the war, the cities turned away from each other,” said Ryszard Bodziacki, the mayor of Slubice (pronounced swoo-BEE-tseh), once part of Frankfurt an der Oder, the eastern German city not to be confused with the better-known Frankfurt am Main in the west. Mr. Bodziacki is working with his counterparts across the Oder to reintegrate the two cities, whether through joint work by police forces and fire brigades or by sending Polish children to German schools.

That cooperation will be easier in practice starting Friday. The border controls are ending because Poland is officially joining the borderless zone within the European Union known as the Schengen area, named for the town in Luxembourg where in 1985 a group of Western European countries signed the first agreements to open their boundaries.

Now Poland and eight other countries, most from the former Soviet sphere of Central and Eastern Europe, have adopted the common visa, asylum and external border procedures required for membership. The police will still patrol inside their borders. But once the new members have joined, it will be possible to drive clear from Lisbon, Portugal, to Tallinn, Estonia, without taking out a passport or identity card.

The movement from east of the common border has caused jitters in Germany, where the police have protested what they say will be a surge in crime in Germany once controls at border posts cease.

Crime gravitates toward open borders, their union representatives say, and the earnings gap between Germany and its poorer neighbors like Poland and the Czech Republic tempts criminals. Josef Scheuring, chairman of the federal-police union that organized the protests, said the change had happened on a political timetable.

Politicians made decisions before the technical side could be worked out, on issues like the delayed upgrade to the Schengen information-sharing network and the harmonization of radio frequencies between the German and Polish police. “Greater Europe will only be accepted by the people if it is safe,” Mr. Scheuring said.

But with seeming unanimity, Poles say they view their country’s entry as proof that they have achieved an equal footing with their partners to the west.

“This border is well protected,” said Andrzej Adamczyk, deputy director of the Polish border guard’s border-management office. He pointed out that European Union officials had approved the guard’s work, which included investments in night-vision technology, cameras and new vehicles.

The German news coverage of the border opening, what there is of it, has largely been about Germans’ installing metal shutters, putting up barbed wire and even buying guns. But in conversations with local residents along the way, the fortifiers seem to be a vocal minority rather than part of a popular groundswell.

“It’s reasonable to let people live and travel freely,” said Christian Pfeiffer, 30, a psychologist, who was out with friends at a Christmas market in the German border town of Görlitz.

Even before now, the border was only a minor nuisance, crossed easily by Germans and Poles for cheaper gasoline or cigarettes, or to go to work. In most cases, citizens of the European Union have passed through the checkpoints with little more than a flash of an identity card, no passport necessary.

“I think it’s a good thing,” said Monika Kraska, 22, a hairdresser in Slubice. “There won’t be any queues.” German clients visit the tiny salon where she works for inexpensive haircuts.

Notably absent from the discussion is the long-expressed fear that Poles will pour across the border to snatch German jobs. That is not just happenstance. When Poland joined the European Union in 2004, Germany left significant legal hurdles in place to prevent its neighbors from coming to work.

Instead, many ambitious, highly mobile Polish workers moved to more welcoming parts of Western Europe — Britain and Ireland in particular — where they have been credited with fueling economic growth, passing through Germany, especially its poorer, depopulating east, on the way.
534 2007-12-20 E.P.A. BLOCKS STATE AUTO LAWS The Environmental Protection Agency denied California and 16 other states the right to set their own standards for carbon dioxide pollution from automobiles, declaring that the rules were made moot by the energy bill ...
535 2007-12-21 In New Hampshire, the Republican candidates begin a duel over taxes....
536 2007-12-21 There have been some big moves recently in the prediction markets that are tracking the presidential campaign....
537 2007-12-21 John McCain's holiday ad for New Hampshire and South Carolina features a Christmas story from his years as a P.O.W....
538 2007-12-21 This week's links include a voice on why women are captivated by pricey kitchen gadgets and a look at a lawyer/flamenco dancer....
539 2007-12-21 The parent of Sallie Mae, which for years profited from placing large bets on its own stock going up, now faces a possible loss of more than $1 billion as the bet has gone drastically wrong. On Thursday it negotiated a two-month delay in the deadl...
540 2007-12-21 It's been a rough week for MBIA. Shares of MBIA, the nation's biggest municipal bond insurer, fell 26 percent after it disclosed Wednesday that it was guaranteeing billions of dollars of the kind of complex debt that unnerved the credit market thi...
541 2007-12-21 Cisco Systems' chief development officer, Charles H. Giancarlo, widely seen as a top candidate for chief executive, announced on Thursday that he was quitting the company, leaving the race for leadership wide open. Mr. Giancarlo, 50, said he would...
542 2007-12-21 The Bagger is hooked on a movie awards site, but he's getting help....
543 2007-12-21 Hedge fund managers and institutional investors are hooking up on the Internet. One emerging site, where small and midcapitalization hedge funds make themselves available to institutional investors, is Hedge Connection. Andrew Saunders, director o...
544 2007-12-21 Basell, the Dutch chemical and plastics maker, completed its acquisition of Houston-based Lyondell Chemical, creating the world's third-largest independent chemical company. Basell, which is owned by privately held Access Industries, acquired Lyon...
545 2007-12-21 It would be easy to dismiss “P.S. I Love You,” about the agonies visited on a young married couple, as the big-screen equivalent of a paperback romance. Certainly the refined critical mind understands that this is the kind of artful emotion machine that the movies have been making since the very first tear slid down an actress’s face, the droplet seen — and experienced — around the world by audiences who answered that bead of dew with a grateful flood of their own. Cry us a river, Mary Pickford!

Movies that make you bawl were sometimes called five-hankie weepies, a sneery label calculated to insult the film and the teary filmgoer alike. There aren’t a lot of these made anymore in America, mainly because most of our movies now are about men and not women. Even so, there are plenty of covert male weepies, films that transform emotions into actions, including acts of violence. “Michael Clayton” is a male weepy, as is “American Gangster,” which turns a duel between tough guys into a veritable drum circle of two. “P.S. I Love You” is more obviously a weepy, but because it leavens sorrow with laughter, it probably requires no more than three hankies. I wouldn’t know: I just used the back of my hand.

The film stars Hilary Swank, a square-jawed beauty at once angular and bosomy, vaguely masculine and unequivocally feminine, whose greatest roles — in “Boys Don’t Cry” and in particular “Million Dollar Baby” — have exploited her ambiguous physicality to enormous advantage. Like some of the greatest sob sisters of the big screen — think of Barbara Stanwyck and Joan Crawford — she has a kind of working-class toughness bordering on hardness that makes the eventual cracks in her armature all the more effective. Unlike Stanwyck and Crawford, though, Ms. Swank can come across as intensely, almost desperately eager to please, which invests her with tremulous pathos or makes you feel embarrassed on her behalf. Stanwyck would have booted her offscreen. Crawford would have eaten her for breakfast.

Perhaps because of this masculine-feminine ambiguity, Ms. Swank has not often been cast as a romantic foil opposite men. She wooed another woman beautifully in “Boys Don’t Cry,” and in “Million Dollar Baby” played the adoring daughter to a surrogate father, a symbolic romance conducted principally inside the confines of a boxing ring. One reason she was so good in Brian De Palma’s convoluted noir “The Black Dahlia,” in which she crept around like poison ivy, is that her performance as a femme fatale is set inside quotation marks. She didn’t register as a toxically dangerous woman but as an idea of that irresistible sexist cliché. She filled out her character’s snug gown as a drag queen would.

“P.S. I Love You” looks squeaky clean and utterly straight and very much removed from the shadow worlds in which Ms. Swank has done her best work. Yet as directed by Richard LaGravenese, who shares screenwriting credit with Steven Rogers, it has a curious morbid quality. Ms. Swank plays Holly Kennedy, a 29-year-old New Yorker who, shortly after the story takes off, becomes a widow. Her husband, Gerry (Gerard Butler), however, doesn’t fully disappear. Instead he visibly lingers in her apartment — he seems less like a ghost than like a manifestation of mad grief — and in the letters he left behind. These letters are full of bossy instructions for Holly on how to grieve and live. They are, in essence, a primer on how to be a widow.

Mr. LaGravenese, who last directed Ms. Swank in the sympathetic drama “Freedom Writers,” is in sync with his star from the get-go. He puts her in the middle of the frame and in a succession of mostly flattering outfits, and smartly surrounds her with well-ripened second bananas, notably Kathy Bates, as Holly’s protective mother, and Lisa Kudrow and Gina Gershon, as her best friends. Harry Connick Jr. swings in and out as a possible love interest, as does the temperature-raiser Jeffrey Dean Morgan, a television actor (“Grey’s Anatomy,” “Weeds”) who bears a striking physical resemblance to Javier Bardem. Mr. Morgan’s appearance in “P. S. I Love You” finishes off Mr. Butler (last seen slaughtering Persians in “300”) far more effectively than does Gerry’s terminal illness.

“P. S. I Love You” won’t win any awards; it isn’t the sort of work that flatters a critic’s taste. It’s preposterous in big and small matters (Holly complains about a Lower East Side apartment that any sane New Yorker would kill for), and there are several cringe-worthy set pieces, some involving Mr. Butler and a guitar. The film is not a beautiful object or a memorable cultural one, and yet it charms, however awkwardly. Ms. Swank’s ardent sincerity and naked emotionalism dovetail nicely with Mr. LaGravenese’s melodramatic excesses: Together the director and his star create a swell of feeling that helps blunt your reservations about being played as an easy mark, a sap or, worse, a girl, even if that’s exactly what you are.
546 2007-12-21 Markets may also have been reacting to another element of the Commerce Department report: the largest monthly increase in consumer spending in three years, defying the expectations of analysts who had predicted a substantial drop-off in Americans’ willingness to spend.

Adjusted for inflation, purchases rose by 0.5 percent in November, the Commerce Department said. The news led many analysts to raise their estimates for fourth quarter growth.

But economists warned that the rise in spending was unlikely to be sustained, and Friday’s report offered worrisome signs that the purchasing power of average Americans is starting to erode.

Take-home pay failed to keep up with inflation for the second straight month. And the savings rate fell in November to its lowest level in half a century, except for the month of Hurricane Katrina in 2005.

“Real incomes are falling,” said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Economy.com. “Purchasing power is eroding. That’s going to weaken growth even more.”

To be sure, there is a long American tradition of spending beyond one’s means. But in the past, soaring home values, solid job growth, and rising wages kept Americans afloat, making it easy for consumers to take out loans and tap alternative sources of income.

Those channels of credit have since dried up. What’s left? Savings accounts, economists say, and now those are beginning to contract. With the S.&P. 500 only up 4.4 percent for the year, Americans are also receiving less return on equity investments and fixed income funds. “I think this is the last gasp,” said Jared Bernstein of the Economic Policy Institute.

Still, Mr. Bernstein acknowledged that American consumers are well-known for their resilience. “You bet against the American consumer and it’s like Charlie Brown and the football,” he said. “You’re going to fall on your backside all the time.”

An erosion in consumer spending should lower the threat of inflation, analysts said, since businesses would have trouble raising prices for consumers who cannot afford to pay. Consumer confidence in December fell to its lowest level in two years, according to a survey by the University of Michigan and Reuters, as workers confront a softening job market and inflation-adjusted hourly wages that have gained only a penny in the last four years.

While the gloomy outlook may be bad news for the economy as a whole, it may provide some comfort to inflation hawks, especially after the Fed’s preferred inflation gauge ticked up to a 2.2 percent annual rate in November. Central bankers are said to prefer that the index, known as the P.C.E. deflator, remain below 2 percent.

Over all, inflation has totaled 3.6 percent over the last 12 months, reflecting a sharp rise in prices since the summer, according to this morning’s Commerce Department report.

The inflation bubble throws a curveball to the Fed, which has lowered interest rates three times this year as it seeks to avert a recession. There is little doubt the economy is gradually slowing, but lower interest rates can cause a flare-up in prices. The Fed now faces a situation where its two goals — price stability and economic growth — may stand at odds with each other.
547 2007-12-21 A monastery in Moncks Corner will halt its egg farming business after claims by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals that the Trappist monks mistreated hens. The Rev. Stan Gumula of Mepkin Abbey said in a statement late Wednesday that pressure from PETA made it difficult for the monks to live a quiet life of prayer, work and sacred reading. The egg farm business will be phased out over the next 18 months, according to the statement. Father Gumula told the National Catholic Reporter that the abbey produced about nine million eggs a year, and that the product was delivered to retailers in the Charleston area. PETA began its criticism of Mepkin Abbey in February, saying it had videotape of thousands of hens crammed into small cages.
548 2007-12-21 LOS ANGELES — Officers of the Los Angeles Police Department’s gang unit and narcotics unit will be required to disclose an array of personal financial information to the department under a new anticorruption policy.

The policy, which experts described as rare among law enforcement agencies, if not unprecedented, was unanimously approved Thursday by the Police Commission, a civilian panel that oversees the department. It was met by a lawsuit from the police union and warnings that it could lead to officers’ mass exodus from the units.

The commission’s president, Anthony Pacheco, said the panel had acted to meet the requirements of a 2001 consent decree between the city and the federal Justice Department that stemmed from one of the worst cases of documented police corruption in the country. In that scandal, involving gang and narcotics officers in the Rampart Division, near downtown, 70 officers were implicated in offenses including drug dealing, stealing and unjustified shootings.

The new policy, to take effect Jan. 16, requires the roughly 600 officers already serving in the units, and in some cases members of their families, to submit information within two years on income as well as bank accounts, stock and property holdings, and other financial assets. Officers transferring into the units will be required to provide the data before they are accepted.

While officers in such specialized units here and elsewhere typically undergo background checks that include lie-detector and other tests, they are not routinely asked for such detailed financial information, said Wes McBride, executive director of the California Gang Investigators Association, an advocacy group.
549 2007-12-21 With ill-equipped and short-staffed local police forces unable to handle an increasingly well-organized Maoist insurgency in central India, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh urged state governments to establish special police forces to take on the guerrillas. Mr. Singh was speaking to a conference on internal security in the capital, New Delhi, four days after Maoists led a jailbreak that freed 300 prisoners from a local jail in Chhattisgarh, the epicenter of the conflict. Mr. Singh, who has called the Maoist rebellion the most significant internal security challenge to the country, acknowledged that a lack of opportunity in some of India’s poorest hinterlands had provided “a fertile ground for extremist ideologies to flourish,” but also said that insecurity had hindered economic expansion in those very areas.
550 2007-12-21 In a victory for air travelers, a federal judge in Albany upheld on Thursday a state law that would penalize airlines that fail to provide adequate services to passengers trapped on the tarmac for more than three hours.

The decision, which the Air Transport Association, an airline industry group, opposed, paves the way for other states to write similar laws. It also means that beginning Jan. 1, airlines operating in New York can be fined up to $1,000 a passenger if they do not supply water, fresh air, power and working restrooms during lengthy delays.

“Today, New York stood its ground on the front lines of the battle to protect the flying public,” said Michael N. Gianaris, a Democratic assemblyman from Queens and one of the main sponsors of the law, called the Airline Passengers Bill of Rights. “I am hopeful that the passengers’ rights movement will now spread until we have a national standard to protect consumers throughout the country.”

The Air Transport Association said in a statement that it believed that the court had misinterpreted the law and that it was considering an appeal. The group said that the industry should be regulated by the federal government, “not 50 individual states.”

The New York law, the first of its kind in the country, does not obligate the airlines to take passengers stuck on the tarmac for more than three hours off the planes, because the state does not have jurisdiction over “deplanements.”

Air carriers will be required to provide information explaining passengers’ rights and how to file complaints, however. New York’s attorney general will also be able to sue any airline found violating the law and seek penalties of up to $1,000 a passenger.
551 2007-12-21 Cisco Systems’ chief development officer, Charles H. Giancarlo, widely seen as a top candidate for chief executive, announced on Thursday that he was quitting the company, leaving the race for leadership wide open.

Mr. Giancarlo, 50, said he would leave at the end of the month and start working in January at the private equity firm Silver Lake as a managing director.

“It’s been a very difficult decision for me to leave Cisco,” Mr. Giancarlo told reporters in a conference call, reflecting on 14 years at the company, which is now the top maker of routers and other network equipment.

Giancarlo, who goes by Charlie, said he made the decision with his next 10 years in mind.

Mike Volpi, who was also seen as a potential successor to the chief executive John T. Chambers, quit earlier this year to join the Internet video service Joost. His departure was seen as clearing the way for Mr. Giancarlo to take on the top job.

Mr. Chambers said the company had plenty of talent left to ensure a smooth transition. The company also announced a management reorganization and said it would not replace the chief development officer’s position.

Mr. Giancarlo oversaw technology development for the company, including routing and switching, as well as digital video and other emerging technologies.

Earlier in his career, he led acquisitions and helped organize alliances with companies like I.B.M. and Microsoft.
552 2007-12-21 VALKA, Latvia (Reuters) — Flares and cheers on Friday greeted the expansion of the European Union’s border-free zone to nine more countries.

The expansion of the so-called Schengen zone, where people can travel without showing passports, removed border barriers first in Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia at midnight.

Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovenia and the Mediterranean island of Malta followed an hour later.

“It feels good,” said Iluta Melke, an office worker in Valka, which has been split from Valga, Estonia, by a border post running across the street. “We have always felt that this was more like one town.”

After a countdown to midnight by a recording of a giant gong border guards fired off a red and green flare before lifting the border boom to allow hundreds of people to walk through freely.

The move is expected to increase business and tourism, allowing people to travel 2,500 miles from Estonia to Portugal without showing a passport.
553 2007-12-21 Mr. Vieira said that the aviation rules as revised would let the airlines pollute 90 percent more than in 1990, even as other European industries are making progress toward lowering their emissions from 1990 levels.

At a meeting in Brussels, European Union ministers agreed to start the system in 2012, rather than 2011 as recommended last month by the European Parliament. They also proposed that carriers buy 10 percent of the permits they need under an auction system, with the rest distributed free. The Parliament had recommended that airlines be required to buy a quarter of all permits.

Final approval by governments is expected by the end of 2008.

The system would set limits on how much carbon dioxide emission airlines would be allowed, allowing them to sell surplus permits if they flew less or used more environmentally friendly technology and punishing them with extra costs if they wanted to use more fuel.

The proposal mirrors an existing carbon credit trading system used by the European Union to combat global warming and meet its emissions targets under the Kyoto Protocol.

Aage Dünhaupt, a spokesman for Lufthansa, complained that the rules were unfair to airlines like his because of the intense congestion over European skies, which requires circuitous flight paths and sometimes puts planes into holding patterns while awaiting clearance for landing.

Mr. Dünhaupt said that forced carriers into unnecessary emissions.

The airline industry has forcefully lobbied against the legislation, calling it an ineffective regional attempt to tackle a problem that requires a global solution. Airline lobbyists also warn that the Europeans risk a trade war with the United States if they insist on moving ahead without an international agreement

American officials have said that the Europeans could violate international aviation rules if they forced non-European airlines into the system.

Daniel K. Elwell, assistant administrator for aviation policy, planning and environment at the Federal Aviation Administration, said the Europeans had softened their proposal “a little bit in timing and base-lining, but it is still on the face of it a unilateral imposition of standards worldwide.”

Any limits on airline carbon releases should be negotiated through the International Civil Aviation Organization, he said.

Mr. Elwell would not say what position the United States would take on carbon quotas if the issue arose in the civil aviation organization. But he said that American carriers had become more efficient and were emitting less carbon dioxide now than they did in 2000; European airlines, he said, were producing more.
554 2007-12-21 But a full report on that trial, including the number of patients who had liver problems, will not be available until March.

Doctors say that by failing to disclose promptly all their research, Merck and Schering-Plough may be leaving the public with a misleadingly favorable view of Zetia’s safety and benefits.

“You don’t want to have data missing,” said Dr. Bruce Psaty, a professor of medicine and epidemiology at the University of Washington. “When there have been adverse effects, when the benefits don’t look impressive, those are the trials that historically don’t make it to press.”

A Schering executive, when asked by a reporter about the unpublished studies, confirmed their existence. But the executive, Dr. Robert J. Spiegel, said the companies had not considered the studies scientifically important enough to publish their findings. Some may eventually be published, he said.

“We’re pretty comfortable that people don’t have trouble tolerating Zetia,” said Dr. Spiegel, the chief medical officer of the Schering-Plough Research Institute, Kenilworth, N.J.

Schering also said that the F.D.A. had reviewed the data from the unpublished studies and had approved Zetia for use alongside statins. But experts on drug safety say that the agency has been slow to issue warnings about many widely used drugs that have turned out to carry serious risks, including the painkiller Vioxx, the diabetes medicine Avandia and the anti-psychotic drug Zyprexa.

Even doctors critical of Zetia generally say it is safe for most patients. But before the drug was approved in 2002, one F.D.A. reviewer said it should not be cleared for use with statins because the combination had caused liver damage in animals. And in the last two years, scattered case reports of severe liver damage in patients taking Zetia in combination with statins have appeared in medical journals.

In the United States, the product label for Zetia contains only mild warnings about the drug’s potential for liver damage.

But in Australia and Canada, regulators have been more cautious. Since 2005, they have issued a series of warnings about Zetia’s potential to cause hepatitis, pancreatitis and depression — warnings that have largely gone unnoticed in the United States.

All drugs have potential risks and side effects, of course, and doctors and patients must weigh those against a drug’s medical benefits. But in the case of Zetia, despite its widespread use, there is no evidence proving that Zetia can reduce heart attacks and strokes, as cholesterol drugs are meant to do. There is extensive medical evidence showing that Lipitor and other statins provide such protection.

The unpublished Zetia studies, devised as safety tests, would not prove the drug’s effectiveness. But they would give the public more information about Zetia’s potential risks. All the unpublished studies covered periods at least one year in length and were intended to show whether long-term use of Zetia might pose dangers that short-term use did not.

Most of the studies about Zetia in which Merck and Schering have published the results covered periods of only 12 weeks — not enough time for liver problems to develop in most patients.

The unpublished studies, conducted from 2000 to 2003 according to the F.D.A. documents, were not listed on the industry Web sites where companies are supposed to register the results of all drug trials that were ongoing after October 2002. The New York Times discovered references to the studies in briefing papers on the F.D.A. Web site.

“We keep telling people we want to practice evidence-based medicine, and what we keep finding out is that much of the evidence is obscured,” said Dr. Harlan Krumholz, a cardiologist at Yale, when told about the previously undisclosed studies. “There is important evidence, but it’s not in public view. It’s hidden from investigators.”

Schering and Merck — which are on track to earn $5 billion this year from sales of Zetia — had already been criticized for not promptly releasing results of the Enhance trial, which was completed in April 2006. Under pressure from Congress and prominent cardiologists, the companies said recently that they would release the full results of the Enhance trial by March.

In response to questions from The Times, the Schering spokesman, Lee Davies, disclosed this week that some patients in the Enhance trial had been dropped from it after tests showed that they had elevated liver enzymes — a potential sign of organ damage. But Mr. Davies said he could not disclose how many, and said the companies did not even know if the patients who had been dropped were taking Zetia and a statin, or just a statin. The delay in releasing the Enhance trial data is unrelated to the patients who were discontinued, Mr. Davies said.

The Enhance data are expected to provide the clearest picture yet of Zetia’s long-term affects. But the F.D.A.’s documents show that Merck and Schering conducted several other long-term trials of Zetia without releasing their findings.

Together those studies cover several thousand patients who took Zetia along with statins for one to two years. The statins include Lipitor and Crestor, as well as Zocor, which is usually prescribed generically as simvastatin and is the statin used in the Vytorin pill. Doctors often add Zetia to a low dosage of a statin, because Zetia reduces cholesterol in a different way than the statins do and leads to deeper overall cholesterol reductions.

One open question is whether Zetia’s method of lowering cholesterol provides the same medical benefits as fighting cholesterol with a higher-dose statin by itself. Last year, Merck and Schering began a separate study — a 10,000-patient clinical trial to prove that Zetia’s ability to lower cholesterol will translate into fewer heart attacks and strokes in patients. But data from that trial will not be available until at least 2011.

In the meantime, some doctors say, they must essentially take on faith that Zetia’s cholesterol-lowering ability will translate into real-world benefits and that its long-term use with statins does not have major risks.

Dr. Eric J. Topol, a cardiologist and director of the Scripps Translational Science Institute in La Jolla, Calif., said that he had asked Merck and Schering more than four years ago to conduct a large, long-term trial to prove that Zetia could reduce heart attacks and strokes. But the companies had little interest, he said.

“They looked at me like I was an alien,” Dr. Topol said.

Two months ago, President Bush signed a new law intended to strengthen penalties for companies that do not release information promptly. And in 2004, the drug industry promised to improve disclosure of research results.

But the new law applies only to new trials, meaning the unpublished Zetia trials are not covered by those new rules and guidelines.

The F.D.A. has reviewed the unpublished studies, according to the agency’s briefing papers.

The companies’ own published studies have generally played down the risk of liver problems. But Dr. Mark Stolk, a gastroenterologist in the Netherlands, last year reported two cases of patients who had developed hepatitis, a liver disease, after taking Zetia alongside Lipitor. One of the patients has since died, Dr. Stolk said in an interview last month. While Zetia is safe for most patients, doctors should carefully monitor patients for liver damage, he said.

“I think other cases will emerge,” he said.

When the F.D.A. approved Zetia in 2002, it relied on trials that covered only 3,900 patients and lasted no more than 12 weeks. Still, the data from even those trials contained signals that Zetia might be dangerous in some patients when it is taken alongside statins, as it usually is.

In those trials, 11 times as many people who took Zetia along with a statin subsequently had serious health problems, compared with those who took a statin alone. Nearly all the serious problems were liver-related. Still the F.D.A. regarded the risks as relatively minor and approved Zetia without asking the companies to conduct longer trials.

The agency did not respond to requests for comment.

All drugs have risks, of course. Doctors who prescribe Zetia say that while they would prefer to see long-term trial data, they are comfortable using it because decades of evidence demonstrated that lowering LDL, or so-called bad cholesterol, is good for patients.

But Dr. Beatrice A. Golomb, an associate professor at the University of California, San Diego, said doctors have lost sight of the purpose of prescribing drugs like Zetia.

The goal of prescribing cholesterol-lowering drugs is not reducing cholesterol, Dr. Golomb said. It is reducing the number of deaths and heart attacks in patients, he said. And without data to prove that Zetia actually reduces heart attacks, doctors cannot be sure they are helping patients when they prescribe the drug, she said.
555 2007-12-21 He told the analysts that if they met in person he wanted them to pass through a metal detector, and ended the call with an expletive.

Moody’s, which rates the company’s bonds BBB-1, a low-investment grade level, said Wednesday evening it was considering reducing the rating, citing worries about the company’s “liquidity position and potentially weakening financial fundamentals.”

That came hours after Mr. Lord told the analysts that the company wanted to regain a higher rating of Single A, but declined to say how much capital would be needed for that to happen. The Moody’s announcement seemed to warn that more capital might be needed just to maintain the current rating.

“They still have the leading market share in student loans, but they are very vulnerable because of the situation in the credit markets,” said Kathleen Shanley, a bond analyst for GimmeCredit, who has recommended that investors sell the company’s bonds. “It can be difficult for a BBB-rated company to have access to the markets, and this is a large company that needs regular access to the markets.”

In trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, SLM shares fell $2.36, to $20.53, after losing $5.98 on Wednesday.

SLM placed bets on its own stock price by entering into “equity forward contracts,” which committed it to buy millions of shares at set prices at specific dates in future years. When the stock was performing well — and it rose from less than $10 a share in 2000 to $58 this summer — those contracts allowed the company to buy shares for less than the market price.

But as SLM’s shares have fallen in recent weeks, it has scrambled to reduce its obligations. It spent about $160 million buying back shares a couple of weeks ago, but until Thursday still had outstanding contracts to buy 44 million shares at an average price of $44.30 a share.

Some of those contracts did not expire for years, but the banks on the other side of them could demand immediate payment if the market price fell low enough. The triggers for that to happen were $19.58 to $24.75.

The deal announced with Citibank removed those triggers, but it accelerated the termination date of the contracts to Feb. 22. That is one week after the company can no longer borrow money on an outstanding $30 billion line of credit, and it has made clear it hopes to refinance that line by then.

Between them, the two dates provide an effective deadline for SLM to find investors willing to invest billions in it.
556 2007-12-21 MBIA, whose name once stood for Municipal Bond Insurance Association, has insured about $30.6 billion of complex securities known as collateralized debt obligations, which are holdings of bonds that are often backed by home mortgages. On Wednesday, the company disclosed that about $8.1 billion of the guarantees was for C.D.O.’s that own the bonds issued by other C.D.O.’s. These derivative securities are considered particularly risky and hard to value because they are at least twice removed from the assets and borrowers that underpin them.

“It questions my confidence about how upfront the company is being and has been,” Robert Haines, an analyst at the research firm CreditSights, said of MBIA. “That’s the asset class that everyone has been scrambling about.”

MBIA’s credibility problems resonated in the stock market, where its shares fell $7.07, to $19.95. Also Thursday, Fitch Ratings, one of the three largest ratings agencies, said it was considering a downgrade of MBIA’s AAA rating unless the company was able to raise another $1 billion in capital in addition to the $1 billion it raised this month from Warburg Pincus, the private equity firm. In a statement issued later in the day, the company said that its disclosure provided more detail about its portfolio and that Warburg Pincus and the credit ratings agencies had been aware of the figures.

As of September, MBIA guaranteed $432.7 billion in municipal bonds and $240.3 billion in corporate and mortgage-related bonds.

On Wednesday, S.& P. said its analysis showed MBIA could face losses of $3.2 billion because of the mortgage-related securities it has guaranteed, noting that the company has a “capital cushion” big enough to absorb losses of up to $1.8 billion. S.& P. has assigned a negative outlook to the company’s AAA rating, as has Moody’s Investor Service.

A AAA rating is crucial to MBIA and the debt that it has insured because without it, the company cannot write insurance policies on bonds that have a lower rating than it does, a segment that makes up most of its business.

For investors in bonds guaranteed by MBIA, a downgrade could force them to acknowledge the falling value of their holdings right away. Concern about such an outcome at another insurer — the ACA Capital subsidiary ACA Financial Guaranty, which lost its A rating from S.& P. this week — persuaded investment banks to give the company an additional month to fix its financial woes before demanding that it put up collateral.

In the municipal bond market, speculation that mortgage-related losses could overwhelm guarantors like MBIA has driven down the price of bonds and made investors less willing to trade, Mr. McGuirk said. About 45 percent of all municipal bonds outstanding are insured. Over time, the guarantors’ problems could make it more expensive for some local and state governments to borrow.

MBIA executives have long maintained that they have more than enough capital to meet losses. Furthermore, the company has argued that even the C.D.O.’s it has insured are not the toxic waste that critics like to imply and that those securities would have to suffer significant losses before the company would be obliged to pay claims. When losses do finally arise, the company would make monthly payments to policyholders to compensate for the lost interest and principal payments.

In the case of the $8.1 billion in C.D.O.’s that the company broke out in its latest disclosure, MBIA would have to start making interest payments if losses rose above 10 percent to 15 percent. It is unclear how much of the underlying assets of the securities are made up of subprime mortgages, which are defaulting at a rapid rate, but most of them were issued in the last two years, when underwriting standards have been particularly lax.

Some analysts defend the company, noting that the data it released helped resolve an inconsistency between its previous reports and data provided by S.& P. earlier in the week that appeared to show that MBIA had a bigger exposure to certain mortgages than analysts believed.

“In my view, the company wasn’t trying to be deceptive,” said an analyst at JPMorgan Chase, Andrew Wessel. “I think they were just trying to solve a discrepancy.” Mr. Wessel did note that the concentration of C.D.O.’s that held other C.D.O.’s would raise his loss expectations.
557 2007-12-21 Saying the government had acted properly and for “bona fide” reasons, a federal judge threw out a lawsuit on Thursday that was brought last year by an Islamic scholar who claimed that a portion of the Patriot Act had been used to deny him a work visa to enter the United States.

The judge, Paul A. Crotty of Federal District Court in Manhattan, said the Patriot Act had not, in fact, been used to deny the visa to the scholar, Tariq Ramadan, who was trying to enter the United States from his home in Switzerland in 2004 after being hired to teach an Islamic ethics course at the University of Notre Dame.

Judge Crotty said the government’s decision was made because, in a four-year period, Mr. Ramadan had given $1,336 to a Swiss charity later designated as a terrorist group.

Mr. Ramadan, a respected academic and a grandson of Hassan al-Banna, founder of the Muslim Brotherhood, a once-militant group, sought to portray himself in the suit as a victim of the Patriot Act and as a standard-bearer for academic freedom. The American Civil Liberties Union filed the suit on his behalf as well as on behalf of the American Academy of Religion, the American Association of University Professors and the PEN American Center.

The suit claimed that a portion of the Patriot Act denying visas to people who “endorse or espouse terrorist activity” was unconstitutional and that the free speech rights of the academic groups had been violated because they could not meet with Mr. Ramadan in the United States.

The government originally said Mr. Ramadan was denied the visa under the Patriot Act but later said it was because of his contributions. Mr. Ramadan maintained that from 1998 to 2002, when he made the donations to the charity, Association de Secours Palestinien, he did not know that it supported terrorism — specifically the Palestinian group Hamas. He also argued that the charity was not officially designated a terrorist group by the United States until 2003, after his donations had stopped.
558 2007-12-21 Bill Strauss, a founder of the singing satirical troupe Capitol Steps, whose response to any political disaster of the last quarter-century was to find out whether it rhymed with anything, died Tuesday at his home in McLean, Va. He was 60.

The cause was pancreatic cancer, his wife, Janie Strauss, said.

Begun in 1981, Capitol Steps is widely known for lampooning policy makers and other public figures to the tunes of popular songs. (“Here’s to You, Reverend Robertson,” “How Do You Solve a Problem Like Korea?,” “What a Difference DeLay Makes.”)

The troupe was formed as a modest, nonprofit lark by Mr. Strauss and two Washington colleagues, Elaina Newport and Jim Aidala. (All three were aides to Senator Charles H. Percy, Republican of Illinois.) It is now a $4 million-a-year business, touring the country and recording widely. The group’s 29 albums include “O Christmas Bush” (2006), “First Lady and the Tramp” (1999), “Sixteen Scandals” (1997) and “Fools on the Hill” (1992).

A lawyer and policy expert by training, Mr. Strauss never set out to be a public parodist. As an aide to Mr. Percy, he was also chief counsel of the Senate Subcommittee on Energy, Nuclear Proliferation and Government Processes, which does not rhyme with anything in the English lexicon. But in 1981, Mr. Strauss gave a Memorial Day party that erupted into a jam session, with guests lampooning the foibles of the Reagan administration in song. A small group gelled; most members were, like Mr. Strauss, Senate staff members.

They gave their first performance at Senator Percy’s office Christmas party. They awoke the next morning and found to their dazed relief that they were all still employed, and Capitol Steps was born. (The name honors the spot where Rita Jenrette, the former wife of Representative John W. Jenrette, said they had engaged in a marital pastime.)
559 2007-12-21 The unsealed affidavit also reveals that Ryan Schurman and Rick Holyfield  two career minor league players  also purchased substances from Radomski. None of the three players were included in Mitchell’s final report.

Fernandez, a portly left-handed pitcher, played for the Mets from 1984 to 1993. He compiled a 114 - 96 career record with a 3.36 earned run average.

Radomski pled guilty in April to federal steroid distribution charges and, as part of his plea agreement, agreed to cooperate with former Senator George J. Mitchell, who was leading an investigation into the use of performance-enhancing drugs in baseball.

Radomski provided Mitchell with documentary evidence and testimony that tied dozens of former and current players to purchases of steroids, human growth hormone and other performance-enhancing substances.

Both affidavits were filed to persuade a judge to issue search warrants, then partly blacked out to protect the ongoing investigation. The government moved to unseal the affidavits because its criminal case is winding down and because of the release of the Mitchell report, which followed a 20-month investigation.

Novitzky led the investigations of the Bay Area Laboratory Co-Operative and of Radomski. Radomski’s home on Long Island and Grimsley’s home in Phoenix were searched as part of that investigation.

The Grimsley affidavit identifies Sosa as having talked about using amphetamines, Incaviglia as having used amphetamines, Berroa as having used steroids and Watson as having used unidentified performance-enhancing drugs.

It also names José Canseco, Lenny Dykstra, Glenallen Hill, Chuck Knoblauch, Rafael Palmeiro, David Segui and Miguel Tejada, all of whom were named in the Mitchell report.

The sentence about Sosa recounts a conversation Grimsley said he had in 2005 with Sosa, Tejada and Palmeiro, who were his Orioles teammates at the time. "Grimsley stated that the topic of the conversation among the four was how they were going to play the baseball season next year when Major League Baseball banned the use of amphetamines and began testing for them," Novitzky wrote.

Palmeiro previously tested positive for using steroids; this was the first reference to his using amphetamines. He is 10th on the career home run list with 569.

The judge who unsealed the Grimsley affidavit had harsh words for The Los Angeles Times, which printed a report in October 2006 headlined "Clemens Is Named in Drug Affidavit." Clemens was not named in the affidavit, although he was named last week by Mitchell.

The newspaper had been challenged on the accuracy of its story by the United States attorney in 2006. It had said its report was based on two sources and that its reporter, Lance Pugmire, had seen the affidavit, and the newspaper stood by the report. In fact, the Los Angeles Times got four of the five people it named wrong.

Edward C. Voss, a United States magistrate judge, wrote in the unsealing order signed Thursday: "A review of the disclosed affidavit proves that the Times never saw the unredacted affidavit. Roger Clemens is not named in the affidavit and Grimsley makes no reference to Roger Clemens in any context. At best, the article is an example of irresponsible reporting. At worst, the ’facts’ reported were simply manufactured."

Voss wrote he was "compelled to point out what appears to be an example of abusive reporting."

The Los Angeles Times ran a correction on Friday that said the newspaper, “incorrectly reported that in a search warrant affidavit filed in May 2006 in federal court in Phoenix, an investigator alleged that pitcher Jason Grimsley named former teammates Roger Clemens, Andy Pettitte, Brian Roberts and Jay Gibbons as players linked to performance-enhancing drugs.” The correction said that, “Grimsley did not name those players,” and the 2006 article incorrectly stated that Grimsley said Tejada used steroids. “The only mention of Tejada in the affidavit was as part of a conversation with teammates about baseball’s ban of amphetamines,” the times said. A front page story clarifying the affidavit ran in Friday’s edition.

"We acknowledge the inaccuracies of the report and deeply regret the mistake," Stephan Pechdimaldji, a spokesman for The Times, wrote in an e-mail message.

Clemens’s lawyer, Rusty Hardin, seized on the error as an indication of Clemens’s veracity, since he has denied accusations in the Mitchell report.

"When this grossly inaccurate story broke in 2006, Roger said it was untrue and the Los Angeles Times chose not to believe him," Hardin wrote in a statement. "As the record now proves, Roger was telling the truth then just as he continues to tell the truth today."

The Los Angeles Times report listed five names it said a reporter had seen when shown the unredacted affidavit by "a source with authorized access" to the affidavit. Of those five, it got four wrong: Clemens, Andy Pettitte, Brian Roberts and Jay Gibbons were not named in the affidavit.

Sosa, who is No. 5 on the career home run list with 609, has never been formally accused of using performance-enhancing drugs. He has been suspected of using them because he had bulked up significantly over the years. He hit more than 60 home runs in 1998, 1999 and 2001, after previously hitting no more than 40 in a season.

Incaviglia, an outfielder, hit 206 career home runs, including 30 as a rookie in 1986. Berroa, an outfielder, had his best season in 1996, when he hit 36 home runs. Watson pitched from 1993 to 2000.
560 2007-12-21 The Von Maur employees who died in the shooting were Beverly Flynn, 47; Janet Jorgensen, 66; Gary Joy, 56; Angie Schuster, 36; Dianne Trent, 53; and Maggie Webb, 24.

Two Von Maur customers, John McDonald, 65, and Gary Scharf, 48, were also killed before the gunman, Robert A. Hawkins, 19, turned his semiautomatic weapon on himself near a gift-wrapping station on the third floor. Two other employees, Fred Wilson, 61, and Micky Oldham, 65, were shot and are recuperating from serious injuries.

“We need to let the community and the world know that we do not tolerate this kind of senseless brutality in Omaha or in any other community in Nebraska,” Carole Christ, a former teacher, wrote in an e-mail message that urged supporters to show up Thursday. The message made it around town — some shoppers said it had been forwarded to them as many as eight or nine times.

“Everyone grieves in different ways, but I think facing the demon is good,” Ms. Christ said. “It’s a tribute, too.”

Some people took the day off from work and browsed as they sobbed. Others were more celebratory, buying gifts with glee. They said they wanted to add some spirit to a place that had been robbed of its holiday cheer.

“I was so concerned that they wouldn’t open the store,” said Barb Lile, an accountant. “But that would have been the biggest victory for Hawkins. This, just being here, is the hugest step for healing.”

James D. von Maur, the president of the department store chain, and Mayor Mike Fahey reiterated those sentiments as they welcomed shoppers.

“God bless you,” one woman told Mr. von Maur, whose family donated a half-million dollars to a victims’ compensation fund. The company also assisted in funeral arrangements, is providing grief counseling and paid employees while the store was closed.

The store, one of the most upscale in Omaha, was fully staffed on Thursday with well over 200 workers. Roses were everywhere. A pianist played “White Christmas.”

“From the bottom of my heart, thank you,” Mr. von Maur told his employees.

While some workers decided that they could no longer work at the store, a Von Maur spokeswoman said, the majority returned.

On the night before the re-opening, Heather Donnelly, the manager of the boys’ department on the third floor, where most of the victims were shot, talked about her reasons for returning. Ms. Donnelly’s friend and mentor, Ms. Schuster, the manager of the girls’ department, was among those killed.

“It’s obviously difficult,” Ms. Donnelly said. “I’m not going to let that stop me from going back to work for a company I’m proud of and to people who are my friends. I feel that it’s my duty to go back there.”

She added: “It was almost comforting to see the store again after all that’s happened. The people of Omaha have been extremely encouraging. It just helps to know they’re behind us.”

There was no sign on Thursday of the rampage, just sparkling decorations, orderly merchandise, shining floors. Store officials would not speak of the cleanup that took place. The police presence was high.

Diane Aden, a substitute teacher who said she would not have missed the reopening for anything, was one of the biggest morale-boosters in the store. A regular in Von Maur, she fluttered from department to department with a big smile and greetings for the many workers she knows by name.

“My presents will be late,” she said. “I needed to buy them here. This is like my second home.”

Lisa Braun was looking over sweaters next to Ms. Aden. “This is hard,” she said. “When I walked in, I had to take a deep breath. I told my neighbor: ‘I’m going. I’ve got to buy something, anything.’”
561 2007-12-21 And after 14 years at St. Bartholomew’s? Cushy address, certainly, Park Avenue at East 50th, but the luster stops there. “There was a question of whether we should even be here, of whether it is too costly to be running a world-class landmark in the middle of New York City, a place where real estate is one of the religions,” he says. “We exist in a city where it takes a lot of trouble and expense — $8 million a year — to keep the door open.”

But open it is. As is Café St. Bart’s, an upscale restaurant in the church’s community house with a menu more sybaritic than ecclesiastical. Mr. Tully introduced it in 1995, and even performed waiter duties on Day 1. “As I told our board, ‘If you think running a church in New York City is hard, you should try running a restaurant!’” The cafe is bustling, as is the 10-bed shelter, the food pantry and the soup kitchen, which served 80,000 meals to the needy this year.

Making this landmark a relevant citizen rather than an anachronism is his mission. Anyone who supposes he has Vanderbilts filling the collection plates is mistaken. They are long gone, represented only by the church’s Stanford White entrance portal, which they commissioned at the turn of the 20th century.

THE repairs and renovations the church now needs will ultimately cost $100 million, which means Mr. Tully must depend on the kindness of strangers, like the corporations in the non-Romanesque skyscrapers surrounding St. Bart’s, to help foot the bill. That the church lost a long, internally divisive legal battle in 1992 against the Landmarks Preservation Commission to replace its community house with a 59-story office tower, a transaction that would have provided secure financial footing to its ministry, is why Mr. Tully was hired. A diehard Mets fan and father of two grown sons, Mr. Tully, 60, grew up in Los Angeles, flirted with journalism, and after a stint in the Model Cities Program here wound up in the same profession as his great-grandfather.

Only an outside-the-steeple thinker whose idea of a religious experience is donning cycling Spandex for a full-throttle 12-mile bike ride through Central Park at daybreak could be unfazed about raising $30 million — in phase one — in the current fiscal climate. So far, his parish has come up with $15 million; corporate donations, led by a $1 million gift from the Conrad N. Hilton Foundation, have yielded just over $2 million. Progress.

His very first Sunday sermon at St. Bart’s was, in a word, lonely. In a space designed to accommodate 1,300 worshipers, there were perhaps 200. Extinction not only seemed a real possibility; in a sad way it seemed to make sense, even to him. “I didn’t want to be known for being the rector of a fancy landmark and nothing more.” Mr. Tully came to the instant revelation that if reinvention was in the cards, putting new people in the pews was paramount. “A theology of radical welcome was what we needed,” he says. “Because there is no parish here in the traditional sense of a residential neighborhood, we had to become a destination church. We are loose around the edges, but solid at the core. This is a thinking person’s church.”

He brought in a rabbi, Leonard Schoolman, to run the church’s Center for Religious Inquiry, and hired an imam, Feisal Abdul Rauf, to teach a course called “What Every Christian and Jew Needs to Know About Islam.” The radical welcome mat worked. “In a world in which religion is blamed for violence and death, here we all just talk to each other,” he says. “On Sept. 12, 2001, we looked like geniuses.”

A deal was struck with a nearby hotel for free parking for St. Bartholomew churchgoers on Sundays. The membership slowly rose to 800, from 15 families with children to 200. A boys-and-girls choir was established. A charter school for the musically inclined is in the advanced planning stage.

With the soul of the ministry healthy, Mr. Tully feels the time is right to concentrate on the bones of the building. Expensive, yes. Priceless? He thinks so.
562 2007-12-21 SAN FRANCISCO — Apple on Thursday put to rest the last of a series of lawsuits it brought in a losing and costly effort to put a stop to Web leaks about its product plans.

The suits raised questions about whether independent Web publishers should be accorded the same legal protections as traditional journalists. They were aimed at the gaggle of Apple enthusiasts who have made both a sport and a business out of pre-empting Steven P. Jobs’s big product announcements.

Nicholas M. Ciarelli, who operated a Web site for Apple rumors called Think Secret, was sued by Apple for publishing trade secrets in January 2005. In a brief statement Thursday on his site, Mr. Ciarelli said that he had reached a settlement with Apple and that he would stop publishing Think Secret.

Mr. Ciarelli, a senior at Harvard, would not comment on whether Apple had given him money to persuade him to cease publishing. But he said he was pleased with the outcome of the negotiations.

“We’ve been able to reach a positive solution,” he said in a telephone interview.

Mr. Ciarelli filed a countermotion against Apple in March 2005 under a California provision that makes litigants vulnerable to financial damages if they sue over what is determined to be constitutionally protected speech. Mr. Ciarelli’s lawyer, Terry Gross, who represented him pro bono, said the motion could have resulted in a financially damaging and embarrassing ruling against Apple, a risk that he said led to this week’s settlement.
563 2007-12-21 But the Barye-Matisse comparison is more primal in several senses. Mainly, it underscores Matisse’s instinctive rejection of the academic tradition embodied by Barye more effectively than the Rodin-Matisse comparison, partly because Matisse learned a great deal from Rodin.

Matisse’s rejection of Barye was unequivocal. Matisse’s surfaces, so roughly faceted that the jaguar’s back resembles a jagged rock formation, are far removed from Barye’s bravura realism, which banished all signs of the sculptural process in favor of depictions of sinew, muscle and even ribs. And while Matisse’s canvases at the time waffled among different strains of Post-Impressionism — Seurat, Vuillard or Munch — his jaguar pounces on Cézanne, the primary springboard to Modernism.

The two cats convey a galvanizing sense of the revelations of this exhibition, which illuminate how, through an emphasis on process, distortion and distillation, Matisse created a new immediacy in sculpture. Turning to Cézanne several years before Picasso and Braque did, Matisse achieved his own restrained, three-dimensional form of Cubist fragmentation. He emphasized the inert material reality of sculpture by showing it to be a static, energetically handmade object. Yet he also removed it a bit from experience by making his objects, nearly all of which depict women, difficult to grasp as neatly resolved wholes.

Moving around the elegant, pretzel-like S-curves of Matisse’s great bronze “La Serpentine” of 1909, you expect its linear elements to flatten out into a single vertical silhouette from the side. But no. Matisse made sure that the leaning torso, crooked arms and crossed legs just kept rearranging themselves to reveal one unexpected curve after another. Elegance turns insouciant, then sarcastic: The female figure gives Classical contrapposto a pronounced swagger. She is leaning rather than standing on what might almost be a pedestal. Pressing one finger to her cheek, she seems to say, “I guess we won’t need this any more.”

It is useful to note that the roughness of Matisse’s modeling gives his sculptures of women an unusual air of independence. You don’t need to touch the surfaces to understand their textures, and they certainly don’t invite caressing the way smooth bronze or marble does. This assertiveness matches the spirited poses. Matisse’s figures are never in motion, but they are also rarely relaxed. Their spines twist, their heads lift, their bodies balance; their poses are taut, actively held.

This show centers on nearly 50 of the 82 sculptures that Matisse completed. Drawings, prints and paintings are interspersed, creating a continual interplay across mediums. That Matisse saw drawing as a form of sculpture is borne out repeatedly here. Even his simplest line drawings are explorations of three-dimensional possibilities, and often surge ahead of the sculpture. The astounding 1906 pencil study “Large Nude” seems more carved than drawn. And while this study reaches three-dimensional fruition in the majestic “Large Seated Nude” of 1922-29, it also presages the stark abbreviation of form in Matisse’s paintings of the teens and his late cutouts, like the “Blue Nude” of 1952, at the end of the show.

Painting is a different story. Whenever a sculpture and a canvas depict the same model in the same pose in this show — as in “The Serf” and in the nearly identical bronzes “Madeleine I” and the rougher “Madeleine II” (precursor to “La Serpentine”) — the sculpture seems fresher, more radical. Matisse seemed to always have his sculptures in mind and around. We see them in several still-life paintings here, perched near flower vases or potted plants. By the time you get to the oil sketch for the Fauvist “Joy of Life,” early in the show, the little figures strewn about the foreground are as much sculptures as humans.

This transference is most overt in Matisse’s famously ugly painting, “Blue Nude: Memory of Biskra” (1907), done in a panic to record a sculpture he had accidentally broken: one of a reclining figure with its great raised arm crooked over its head. This may explain the jangling disequilibrium of the painting. Two different casts of “Reclining Nude” (the sculpture was ultimately repaired and survived) are displayed in front of “Blue Nude,” and this grouping creates an amazing experience. As you move around the bronzes, one limb or body part heaves into view, asserting itself as an independent form while masking what comes next.

There’s no jangle here, but the assertion of parts over the whole can be unnerving. One of its sources may be African sculpture, which Matisse began studying in 1906 (after introducing it to Picasso). He formally acknowledges the African influence in “Two Negresses” (1907-8), wittily emphasizing the sculpture’s three-dimensionality with two facing figures that present a back and a front simultaneously, twice.

Besides the Barye and Rodin works, there are sculptures by Maillol, Bourdelle, Degas, Picasso, Brancusi and Giacometti, and paintings by Delacroix and Cézanne that keep track of Matisse’s influences, both coming and going.

Picasso was inspired to make the sexy, pneumatic portrait busts of his lover Marie-Thérèse Walter after seeing Matisse’s four progressively abstract heads of his “Jeanette” series at an exhibition in 1930. One of Picasso’s heads of Walter shares a gallery with the “Jeanette” heads, and Matisse’s fusion of unfolding process and unstable form wins the face-off. By “Jeanette IV,” the processes of building up and cutting away material are equally visible, just as the head’s face, nose, truncated skull and segmented coif hang together and exist separately. The woman’s left eye has been completely sliced away, like the eye of the unforgettable boy at the center of Matisse’s 1916 painting “Piano Lesson,” in the Museum of Modern Art.

This grand exhibition introduces the other Matisse, as Mr. Shell, the curator, aptly writes in his catalog essay, not for the first time, but in a way that should make its importance stick. The show releases Matisse the sculptor from the domain of Matisse the painter, and it frees Matisse the early Modernist from the shadow of Cubism. While Picasso and Braque scaled the heights of Cubism roped together like mountaineers, as Braque put it, Matisse began by tying together painting and sculpture themselves, and forging on alone. He forced painting and sculpture into a collaboration unlike anything in the history of Western modern art.

By the time he got to his much later “Blue Nude,” the paper cutout of 1952, he had nearly made the two mediums one. And, after him, the deluge. The constantly mutating fusion of painting and sculpture has been one of the main themes of contemporary art ever since.
564 2007-12-21 JERUSALEM — Five Palestinian fighters were killed and an Israeli soldier was badly wounded Thursday in central Gaza, about a mile from the border with Israel, the Israeli Army and Palestinian medics said.

In the afternoon, Palestinian militants fired three rockets toward southern Israel. One hit about 40 yards from a school in downtown Sderot, and 12 students were treated for shock, the Israeli police said.

At least two other Israeli soldiers were slightly wounded Wednesday night, when the operation began, and about 20 Palestinians were wounded Thursday, including a Reuters television journalist and a 7-year-old boy. Another Palestinian fighter was critically wounded in the combat, which the Israeli Army described as a routine raid to suppress rocket and mortar fire into Israel.

The casualties occurred in a week when Israel has stepped up day-to-day operations against Palestinian militants, especially Islamic Jihad, which has fired most of the rockets from Gaza. The Israeli soldier was severely injured when the Palestinians fired an antitank rocket. A helicopter took him to a hospital in Beersheba, and his family was notified, the army said. An army news release said that seven Palestinian gunmen had been killed in the operation. But Dr. Muawiya Hassanein, director of emergency services in Gaza, said that only five had died.

Two of the dead were from the ruling Hamas faction and one from Islamic Jihad. The identity of the others was not clear. Three were killed in the morning and two more in the afternoon, Dr. Hassanein said. He said that the Israeli forces made Palestinian ambulances wait before retrieving the wounded. Operations early this week, from the air and the ground, killed at least eight fighters from Islamic Jihad and two from Hamas.
565 2007-12-21 SYDNEY, Australia — Six Australian businessmen face the possibility of millions of dollars in fines in a new civil case connected with huge bribes paid to the government of Saddam Hussein.

The men could also face criminal proceedings, but because the statute of limitations expires earlier for civil suits than for criminal cases, the authorities moved first on the civil action.

The six men are all former senior managers of the Australian Wheat Board, which an independent inquiry last year found had paid some $250 million in bribes to the Iraqi government just as Australian troops were preparing to go to war.

The bribes, which the board paid to secure contracts to supply wheat under the United Nations oil-for-food program, were disguised as transport fees paid to a Jordanian trucking company partly owned by Mr. Hussein’s Ministry of Transport, the inquiry reported.

The men, including a former board chairman, Trevor Flugge, face 7 to 17 counts, with each count carrying a potential fine of about $170,000.
566 2007-12-21 Automobile executives specifically cited apprehension over the California rules at meetings in October and November with Vice President Dick Cheney, other top White House officials and influential members of Congress.

The White House, in a letter last week to lawmakers, said the energy bill should set a “single national regulatory standard,” rather than allowing states to set their own rules.

Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat and longtime ally of the auto industry, said in a floor statement that he was voting for the fuel efficiency measure based on assurances that it would not be “undercut” by future rules from the environmental agency on emissions of heat-trapping gases like carbon dioxide.

The agency’s decision faces legal challenges and Congressional reviews, and a new president could reverse it. But, for now at least, automakers gained something from the administration that they could not have obtained from Congress or the courts.

They have blocked California and other states from creating what Mr. Johnson repeatedly called a “patchwork of state rules” for fuel efficiency and for the carbon dioxide produced by every internal combustion engine.

Under the Clean Air Act, the automakers have for decades chafed under separate, tougher state standards for other tailpipe emissions like those that cause smog.

The industry pushed for the new ruling as part of its overall lobbying on the energy bill, which also calls for a huge increase in ethanol and other biofuels over 15 years.

In meetings in October with Mr. Cheney and sessions with White House staff members, auto executives made clear that they were concerned not just about the fuel economy measures in the bill but also about the California proposal for stricter emissions standards.

California developed rules in 2004 to reduce tailpipe emissions of carbon dioxide and other pollutants that scientists say contribute to global warming. The state applied to Washington in December 2005 for a waiver from the Clean Air Act to let it apply the tougher standards. Eventually, 16 states joined the application for the exception.

Since 1970, such waivers have been routinely granted more than 50 times involving tailpipe pollutants that foul the air in some states more than in others. But none faced the political atmosphere surrounding the California proposal, which dealt with a gas that affects the world climate, not that of a particular state.

The environmental agency had two hearings on the waiver and received more than 100,000 comments. Insiders said the technical and legal staffs at the agency were never asked for formal analyses of the California plan, and no documentation was released with the ruling, as has been routine in waiver cases.

Senator Barbara Boxer, the California Democrat who leads the environment committee, said she believed that the administration never intended to grant the state’s request. Ms. Boxer said Mr. Johnson refused to meet her on the question and evaded questions about White House pressure at a hearing before her panel.

She said the signing of the energy bill on Wednesday provided Mr. Johnson convenient timing and a rationale to reject the waiver.

“They used the energy bill — I’d say misused it — as a way to justify what they wanted to do all along,” Ms. Boxer said.

Other lawmakers and environmental advocates expressed suspicion that the decision had been made weeks or months ago and pointed to White House statements raising questions about the fuel-economy measure as it moved through Congress.

The White House expressed concerns that the bill did not clarify the relative roles of the environmental agency and the Transportation Department, which regulated mileage rules.

A White House official, speaking on background last week, said it was critical that the new standard not be supplanted by a new program from the environmental agency or the states.

“If Congress says they have to meet 35 by 2020, that’s what it should be,” the official said. “Not what it should be until someone says it’s something different.”

Although the California rule would have addressed just emissions of heat-trapping gases, it would in effect be a fuel economy standard, because the main way to cut emissions is to cut fuel use.

Auto company executives told the White House and sympathetic members of Congress that they feared that the fuel economy standards and the California waiver would force them to reduce emissions and raise fuel economy on a faster timetable than the energy bill that became law.

“We had California, and we had all these other issues colliding into that,” said a senior auto company official who insisted on anonymity. He called the California situation “one of our worry beads.”

Executives at two companies said they did not know the precise timing of the decision until Wednesday afternoon, when the White House made courtesy calls to members of Congress.
567 2007-12-21 The National Endowment for the Arts is announcing a program aimed at rescuing plays from development hell, er, helping nonprofit theaters bring new plays to full production. In its inaugural phase, the program, to be administered by Arena Stage in...
568 2007-12-21 A day after resigning as the antiquities chief of Greece for health reasons, Christos Zahopoulos, 54, was hospitalized in critical condition on Thursday after leaping from his fifth- floor apartment in central Athens, Agence France-Presse reported...
569 2007-12-21 WITHHOLDING DRUG STUDIES New evidence shows that the drug makers Merck and Schering-Plough have conducted several studies of their  cholesterol medicine Zetia that raise questions about its risks to the liver, but the companies have never publishe...
570 2007-12-22 Dark horses in Iowa of yesteryear and today...
571 2007-12-22 Security and control at the once-contentious border between Germany and Poland ease further, but divisions remain.
572 2007-12-22 It is well known that Microsoft has been leading a heated effort to block Google from purchasing DoubleClick. Not only did Microsoft hire the public relations firm Burson-Marsteller to create a group called the Initiative for Competitive Online Ma...
573 2007-12-22 A military dog wounded in Iraq in the same rocket attack that killed its marine handler was adopted by the slain marine’s family. The family of the marine, Cpl. Dustin Lee, planned to take home the bomb-sniffing dog, an 8-year-old German shepherd named Lex who was granted early retirement. “Nobody can do anything to replace the void in this family,” said Col. Christian Haliday, commander of the Marine Corps Logistics Base in Albany, where Corporal Lee and Lex were assigned. “We hope Lex can bring a small piece of his spirit and help maintain his memory.” Corporal Lee, 20, was killed and Lex was wounded on March 21 in Anbar Province. Corporal Lee’s mother, Rachael, said she believed that her son’s spirit would live on through the dog because of their close bond and because they were together during the final moments of her son’s life. “It was blood on blood,” she said. ”We can’t get Dustin back, but we have Lex.”
574 2007-12-22 An Indian doctor once accused of involvement with terrorist bombers in Britain was given back his Australian visa, in the latest chapter in a case that has embarrassed the police, prosecutors and the government. The high court in Melbourne rejected an appeal by Kevin Andrews, the former immigration minister, to stop the reinstatement of the visa for the doctor, Mohammed Haneef. Dr. Haneef’s lawyer, Peter Russo, said his client wanted to return to his old job as a hospital registrar. Dr. Haneef was arrested on July 2 in Brisbane, two days after a distant cousin, Kafeel Ahmed, had crashed a burning Jeep Cherokee into the main terminal at Glasgow’s international airport. Prosecutors said Mr. Ahmed, who later died of burns, had also helped plant two car bombs in central London. On July 27, the charge against Dr. Haneef was dropped, and Australia’s chief prosecutor admitted that prosecutors had made erroneous statements in court.
575 2007-12-22 Investors lowered their expectations of a rate cut in January. And broader inflation, stoked by higher food and energy prices, picked up steam even more, raising fears that it would start to feed back into inflationary pressures.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 1.7 percent Friday, to 1,484.46, sending the index into positive territory for the week. The Dow gained 205.01 points, or 1.6 percent, to 13,450.65, and the tech-heavy Nasdaq index rose almost 2 percent, to 2,691.99.

The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 31/32, to 100 20/32. Its yield, which moves opposite the price, rose to 4.17 percent from 4.05 percent.

The day began with a surprise: consumer spending registered its biggest monthly increase in three years, defying the expectations of analysts who had predicted a significant drop-off.

Adjusted for inflation, purchases rose 0.5 percent in November, the Commerce Department said.

For a second month, the take-home pay of workers failed to keep up with inflation. Real disposable income fell 0.3 percent after dropping 0.2 percent in October. And the savings rate — a rough measure of personal income left over after consumption — fell in November to its lowest level in half a century, except for the month of Hurricane Katrina in 2005.

“Real incomes are falling,” said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Economy.com. “Purchasing power is eroding. That’s going to weaken growth even more.”

To be sure, there is an American tradition of spending beyond one’s means. In recent years, soaring home values, on top of decent job growth and rising wages, helped keep Americans afloat. But it is not clear what will replace that source of wealth in the months and years ahead.

Consumer confidence in December fell to its lowest level in two years, according to a survey by the University of Michigan and Reuters, as workers confront a softening job market and inflation-adjusted hourly wages that have gained only a cent in four years. For consumers, “this is the last gasp,” said Jared Bernstein of the Economic Policy Institute.

Still, Mr. Bernstein acknowledged that Americans are well known for their resilience, especially when it comes to shopping. “You bet against the American consumer and it’s like Charlie Brown and the football,” he said. “You’re going to fall on your backside all the time.”

The reports of higher inflation threw a curveball to the Fed, which has lowered interest rates three times this year as it seeks to avert a recession. There is little doubt the economy is slowing, but efforts to spur growth through lower interest rates can stoke a flare-up in prices, putting the Fed’s two goals — price stability and economic growth — in conflict.

Still, inflation risks may be tempered as consumers’ purchasing power falls, analysts said, since businesses would have trouble raising prices. “It’s awfully tough to raise prices,” Mr. Bernstein said, “if consumer demand starts to lag in earnest.”
576 2007-12-22 The Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory, the nation’s premier center for plumbing the mysteries of the universe in the tiniest bits of matter, is planning to lay off more than 10 percent of its employees in the coming months, the result of impending budget cuts mandated by the spending bill passed by Congress this week.

Fermilab’s collaboration in an international project to design and build the International Linear Collider, which would slam together electrons and their anti-particles — positrons — at ever-higher energies, will slow to a halt. A Fermilab experiment called NOvA to look for an asymmetry in the laws governing evanescent particles known as neutrinos will be placed in limbo with hopes that it can be revived next year by new financing.

Outside of Fermilab, the spending bill also eliminated the United States’ planned contribution of $160 million to ITER, a test fusion reactor that is intended to lead to commercial energy production by emulating the process that powers the Sun.

Fermilab, in the western suburbs of Chicago, had expected its budget to rise to $372 million from $342 million. Instead it will fall to $320 million. Officials said they were caught unaware by the cuts, and because they affect the 2008 fiscal year that started nearly three months ago, the officials said they had to take action quickly.

“I have never been handed a problem more difficult than this one,” Piermaria Oddone, Fermilab’s director, told his employees at a meeting on Thursday, where he announced that probably 200 layoffs out of a work force of 1,940 people would be necessary.
577 2007-12-22 Americans can be forgiven for wondering if anything these days is safe to eat. Recent food scares have involved such all-American staples as spinach, peanut butter and hamburger meat. A stomach-churning article in The New York Times recently made it clear that some imported seafood, the stuff that is supposed to be good for the heart, can be heavy with pesticides, veterinary antibiotics and other unhealthy extras.

President Bush and his administration need to be doing a lot more to protect America’s food supply — whether it comes from the farms and factories in America or the fetid aquaculture pools in China. That will not be possible unless Mr. Bush provides more financial and political support to the agencies in charge of food safety.

The White House has expressed great public concern about food and other imports in recent months and has negotiated a way to screen some seafood coming from China. That is a very modest start. Administration representatives argue in their latest policy proposals that changes would have to be made with the presently available resources. That’s a problem since presently the Food and Drug Administration has very few resources. The agency is one of many regulatory agencies that has been depleted or “hollowed out” during the Bush years in the name of protecting industry from so-called big government.

Now, however, even the industry has recognized that everybody needs a Food and Drug Administration that really works. Food industry lobbyists and the most fervent public health advocates — normally bitter rivals — have joined forces in Washington to help push the White House and Congress to grant more power and funds for the F.D.A. The consumer-industry coalition wants food-related spending to increase more than $100 million over this year’s budget.

Michael Leavitt, secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, which includes the F.D.A., told a Senate committee recently that he has asked the White House to go for “substantial additional resources” in the 2009 budget. It is not yet known whether the White House will back those “substantial” increases for the F.D.A.

What extra funds the agency squeezes out of this year’s budget should be spent as soon as possible on inspectors and up-to-date computer technology. The agency still uses handwritten reports of food problems, and the data collection system runs at horse-and-buggy speed.
578 2007-12-22 When Heidi L. Hoefer, a veterinarian who specializes in treating small exotic pets like birds and rabbits, used to practice in New York, “a week didn’t go by that we didn’t have a case of lead poisoning in small birds,” she said.

The malady is common in birds that fly around apartments, pecking at painted surfaces that have remnants of lead paint. The paint was outlawed in 1978, but birds are apt to land on the top of a door frame or some other surface where old paint has not been scraped away.

Or, if lead paint was merely painted over, “Your parrot or cockatiel or parakeet can chip through 25 years of paint in just a few seconds,” said Dr. Hoefer, who now practices in Huntington, N.Y., where she sees far fewer cases, primarily because of the houses are newer in the suburbs.

With birds weighing as little as an ounce, it does not take much lead for them to contract acute poisoning, whose symptoms include seizures, limping and drooping wings.

Safdar A. Khan, director of toxicology at the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals’ animal poison control center, said that lead poisoning in pets is decreasing as lead paint grows more rare. Of the 125,000 calls the center has received this year, about 30 were about actual or suspected cases of lead poisoning, he said.

Dr. Kahn said that curious dogs — or anxious ones — chew on wood, like furniture or moldings, which may contain lead paint. Animals can also be poisoned when they swallow lead objects, like fishing sinkers or curtain weights. The center does not keep records about whether any cases have resulted from pets chewing on their own or on children’s toys.
579 2007-12-22 A statement released by a Wright spokesman noted that most New York State legislators had part-time outside employment. Still, it said, “Given the current environment, in which such employment is often viewed in a negative light, it is likely that questions will continue to be raised about Mr. Bruno’s employment.”

This week, Wright, which is based in Milford, Conn., hired a corporate and crisis communications specialist to handle inquiries from the press. Officials have declined to say whether they have been approached by federal investigators or received subpoenas.

Mr. Bruno began working for Wright as a consultant in March 1994. Nine months later he became majority leader, and in 1998 he was made a salaried Wright employee.

Under state ethics law, legislators must list any outside employers on ethics filings, but are not required to disclose to the public what work they perform or how much they are paid. Government watchdog groups have long advocated further restrictions or an outright ban on outside jobs for legislators.

In a radio interview this month, Mr. Bruno defended his work at Wright, and suggested it was drawing scrutiny only because of his continuing feud with Gov. Eliot Spitzer, a Democrat.

“Why is The New York Times singling me out with my other income, which I have a legal right to earn?” he asked. Mr. Bruno added: “That’s personal. They like to take a whack at me; they’re the extreme liberals out there, and they love Spitzer, and because I’m having problems with him, they love to take a whack at me any chance they get.”

Russ Haven, the legislative director for the New York Public Interest Research Group, a nonpartisan watchdog organization, said in an interview that Mr. Bruno’s decision to leave Wright “removes the appearance of conflict. But it doesn’t address the larger problem of legislative disclosure, and the fact that many lawmakers have significant business and professional interests that may raise conflicts.”

Mr. Bruno has been an unusually stalwart ally of unions, especially for a Republican, and has forged a range of ties with local union leaders.

Records reviewed by The Times since the Dec. 1 article show that eight Albany area unions have had money invested with Wright at various times in the past decade.

An examination of state records and tax documents also reveals that several officials at the unions that invested with Wright also intersected with Mr. Bruno, whether by making political donations, by lobbying or by receiving state money disbursed at his discretion.

Three of the unions’ political action committees contributed to Mr. Bruno’s campaign fund. Four trustees at the unions, who help decide how to invest the unions’ money, were longtime political supporters of Mr. Bruno and some had endorsements listed on his campaign Web site.

Wolfgang Hammer, a longtime ally of Mr. Bruno’s whose name appeared on the site, ran a local branch of the union Unite Here until recently and was a trustee of two pension funds that invested money with Wright. Asked this week if he was aware of Mr. Bruno’s role there, Mr. Hammer said: “No comment, don’t even push it. No comment.”

He and two family members were ousted from leadership positions this month.

Some leaders of union locals also lobbied the State Senate. Kevin Hicks, a prominent carpenters’ union official until recently, was a trustee of three pension funds that invested with Wright and also personally lobbied the Senate on a wide range of issues, according to state records. Mr. Hicks recently retired from the carpenters’ union and took a job in labor relations with the Spitzer administration. He declined to comment.

Wright also handled money for the New York District Council of Carpenters pension fund. A spokeswoman for that local, based in New York City, said its officials were not aware of Mr. Bruno’s role at Wright. Senate Republicans secured $50,000 for a technical college affiliated with the council in the 2005 budget. John E. McArdle, a spokesman for Mr. Bruno, said any such grants “were for legitimate governmental purposes.”

Several union officials said in interviews this week that they did not know Mr. Bruno worked for Wright, while others declined to discuss the matter. One union official whose pension fund has done business with Wright, speaking on condition of anonymity, said he was aware that Mr. Bruno worked there but said he had never been solicited by him for investments.

“It was common knowledge for me, and I knew a few other people knew it, but I’ve never had any pressure put on me,” the official said.
580 2007-12-22 Mary Flood Nugent, a mother of six children and a community activist in Houston, has several devotional candles burning in her fireplace, with images of St. Jude or the sacred heart printed on their glass containers. “I have a lovely salmon pink one going now for my friend who is starting treatment for breast cancer,” Ms. Nugent said.

There are only a handful of manufacturers of prayer candles, including the Reed Candle Company of San Antonio; Bright Glow in Pomona, Calif.; the Continental Candle Company in Compton, Calif.; and Indio Products of Rancho Dominguez, Calif., serving what they variously estimated as a $100 million to $300 million market.

Family-owned and mostly Hispanic businesses, many report rebuffing recent buyout offers from outside investors. “I get approached every week about selling,” said Sister Schodts Reed, president and chief executive of the Reed Candle Company. The company, founded by her father-in-law in 1937, reported sales of $24 million last year.

The origin of devotional candles is a matter of some dispute. Ms. Reed said her father-in-law, Peter Doan Reed, was the inventor, coming up with the idea of filling an 8 ½-inch-tall glass with enough wax to burn seven days and with pictures of saints printed on the containers. “The candles were intended as an extension of people’s prayers” that would burn longer than the small votives, she said.

Others in the industry, however, credit an unnamed monk in Germany with the idea or said that devotional candles evolved from wax-filled milk bottles.

The newest entrant to the market — the St. Jude Candle Company in Houston — was financed by a group of private investors and began production in March. “We see it as an underserved sector with a tremendous potential for growth,” said William A. Grimsley, the company’s president and chief financial officer. He has helped start or turn around several companies, among them Arena Brands, which makes Lucchese boots and Stetson hats.

St. Jude has already taken market share from its competitors, he said, by signing several deals with regional grocery stores like HEB and grocery store distributors like Associated Wholesale Grocers.

Prayer candles with pictures of saints or claiming to bring love, luck or money are distributed primarily through grocery and discount stores including Wal-Mart and Dollar Stores. They are also through many independently owned religious stores as well as botanicas, which sell herbs and ointments as well as candles.

“The majority of our business is candles,” said Donna Escamilla, manager of Stanley Drugs, a onetime drugstore and now a busy botanica in Houston that often has lines snaking out the door. “The most popular ones are for love, to cause a breakup or for protection against your enemies.”

Botanicas often coat prayer candles with special oils and herbs for extra potency. The price of such dressed candles is $12 to $25, far higher than candles found on grocery store shelves, which cost $1 to $5, depending on the sophistication of the pictures, whether they are scented and how much wax they contain and hence how long they will burn.

“We focus on botanicas and religious stores because the profit margins are much higher,” said Martin Mayer, president of Indio Products, which he said had nationwide sales last year totaling $12 million. One of his company’s best sellers is a candle depicting Jesús Malverde, a Mexican folk hero known as the narco saint and thought to protect drug smugglers.

While margins are slimmer for candles sold to grocery stores, the other major makers of prayer candles said it was nonetheless a lucrative business. Though none would disclose profits, they said they were doing well despite the rising price of wax, which is made from petroleum.

“Religious candles are the No. 1 turning category, outselling everything else we offer,” said Kirk Zehnder, a spokesman for Mercado Latino, a distributor of Hispanic grocery items to stores like Wal-Mart and Albertsons. To meet the demand, Mercado Latino acquired Continental Candle in 1991 and transformed it from a struggling supplier of candles to the restaurant industry into a maker of devotional candles, with annual sales exceeding $20 million.

People who buy devotional candles tend to buy them as routinely as milk and toilet paper. “They are a staple,” said Ms. Reed of Reed Candle. In keeping with the eternal-flame concept and Hispanic cultural tradition, many people do not allow candles on their home altars to extinguish without lighting a replacement, Mr. Foley at the University of Texas said. And since most altars have several candles burning that need replacing every five to seven days, Mr. Zehnder said, “You do the math; it’s a lot of candles.”
581 2007-12-22 Robert Willens, who analyzes the tax system for Lehman Brothers, said that some “tax advisers used this very simple way to get around the wash sale rules.”

Ed Slott, an accountant on Long Island who specializes in the fine points of I.R.A.’s, said the timing of the new rule was strategic. “People harvest tax losses right at year-end,” he noted, a point that I.R.S. officials did not dispute in explaining the new rule.

Mr. Slott noted that the new rule specified only I.R.A. and Roth I.R.A. accounts, and made no mention of other types of retirement accounts like 401(k), 403(b) and Keogh plans. He characterized the use of the technique in these other accounts as not flatly prohibited, but as a dark gray area of tax strategy.

The I.R.S. said that while the published guidance was narrow, taxpayers should consider the intent of the rules.

Sheldon Cohen, a former I.R.S. commissioner, said people who violated the new rule were not likely to be caught.

“This will not be easily enforced as the two items will not show up on” tax returns, Mr. Cohen said. “It can only be discovered by audits, which are a small percentage of what they should be.”

Those who violate the wash sale rules in taxable trades faced only the expense of the transactions, as the government allowed the investor to add the disallowed tax loss to the price, or basis, paid for the new shares. This meant that when the shares were ultimately sold at a profit the capital gain was smaller, reducing the tax bite.

But under the new rules the tax savings would be permanently disallowed.

The I.R.S. did not refine its rule on what constitutes a substantially identical security under the wash sale rules. It remains unclear whether an investor could sell a losing index fund in a taxable account at one mutual fund company and then, in a retirement account, immediately buy a different firm’s fund tied to the same index. Mr. Slott said he would regard such a trade as falling into a dark gray area.
582 2007-12-22 Mr. Huckabee did not welcome MADD’s recommendation.

Days later, in a letter that he demanded be kept confidential, Mr. Huckabee sharply criticized Ms. Belew for going public with criticism about the Fields case. “I cannot understand why you sent the letter to news organizations,” he wrote. He suggested that MADD was simply trying to fan “the flames of controversy that have been stirred in this case by the unusual curiosity of certain media members.”

He also had a more political score to settle. It concerned his wife, Janet Huckabee, who in 2002 lost her campaign to unseat Arkansas’s incumbent secretary of state, Charlie Daniels.

“You’ll further have to help me understand,” he wrote to Ms. Belew, “why you have been so public with this letter when during the last campaign season, MADD refrained from public comment regarding my wife’s opponent, a public official with several D.W.I.’s, one of which was in a state-owned car.”

Mr. Huckabee’s letter, obtained by The New York Times, is one of several examples of how Mr. Huckabee bristled at public criticism of his clemency decisions.

Similarly, when the Arkansas Prosecuting Attorneys Association made public a letter arguing against clemency for a rapist, Wayne Dumond, Mr. Huckabee in a subsequent meeting with the group angrily warned that he would not be receptive to their legislative priorities if they persisted in going public with criticism, prosecutors at the meeting recalled.

The Fields case also underscores the degree to which personal and political connections sometimes played an important role in how Mr. Huckabee used his powers of clemency. Some who received clemency were recommended by Baptist preachers who had long supported Mr. Huckabee. A few had worked as trustees in the governor’s mansion. Others, like Mr. Fields, were championed by Mr. Huckabee’s political allies.

“When you have somebody that you trust and is your friend and is putting their neck out there and is asking you to do something, versus judges and prosecutors who want to look tough on crime, that would have more of an impact with him,” Mr. Cox said.

A spokeswoman for Mr. Huckabee, Charmaine Yoest, said that Mr. Fields’s political donations and connections played no role in his clemency. She said the governor simply made a “tough call” — one that the Arkansas Parole Board supported — to release a model inmate at a time when the state’s prisons were overcrowded. Mr. Fields did not respond to several telephone messages left at his home. Mr. Bearden also did not respond to telephone and e-mail messages left at his office.

About two years after Mr. Fields’s sentence was cut to 11 months, he was arrested again for D.W.I.

According to the police report, Mr. Fields’s Chevy truck crossed the center line of Highway 59 in Barling, Ark., directly into the path of an oncoming police car, which he missed. Mr. Fields stumbled out of his truck, reeking of alcohol, when he was pulled over.

His blood-alcohol level measured 0.18, more than twice the legal limit. He paid a $300 fine and is on parole.
583 2007-12-22 MONTPELIER, Vt. (AP) — Vermont regulators on Friday rejected a $2.7 billion plan by FairPoint Communications to buy Verizon’s landlines in northern New England.

The ruling by the Vermont Public Service Board cited FairPoint’s financial viability.

“The board found that FairPoint had not demonstrated that it would be financially sound as it seeks to operate the newly acquired territories in Vermont, Maine and New Hampshire — a service territory that has five times the number of access lines as Fairpoint presently has,” the board said Friday in a prepared statement.

FairPoint, based in Charlotte, N.C., would have to borrow $2.5 billion to complete the transaction, and the debt service on that could exert “significant financial pressure” when combined with operating costs and revenue projections, the board said.

State regulators, however, left the door open to a revised bid. The board said it would reconsider the takeover under certain conditions and invited FairPoint to submit revisions.

A spokeswoman for FairPoint, Rose Cummings, said, “This is a procedural move that we consider an invitation to discuss the conditions, to introduce more information into the record.”

FairPoint Communications sought ownership of Verizon’s 1.6 million access lines, along with Internet service, in northern New England. Verizon Communications would have retained its wireless phone operations in the region. Regulators in each of the states have to approve the deal to allow it to go forward.
584 2007-12-22 Q. How does H.J. Heinz attempt to ensure that its products are safe and avoid recalls in the future?

A. We established a quality council a couple of years ago that reports directly to me. I believe that’s unusual in the industry. I don’t want to speak for other companies, but the quality function sometimes reports to R.&D. or operations or manufacturing. We’ve also upped our funding in the area of quality.

Most recall issues are built around allergens and microbiological contamination. We haven’t had these problems in the last few years and have taken stringent action to counter them. We’ve added electronic scanners along our factory lines to eliminate what we refer to as “rogue” labels. In the case of beans, occasionally a supplier will violate our standards, but we’ve taken action in the last few years to follow up before there’s a problem.

We’ve been implementing a comprehensive quality management system over the last few years that places controls on all aspects of our product sourcing and suppliers, as well as on operations in our factories.

Q. What’s your opinion about the job the F.D.A. is doing in overseeing the food industry?

A. I think the F.D.A. is the finest food agency in the world and has some of the most stringent processes and the finest people, but I believe they’re underresourced.

Q. What’s the threshold for a recall at Heinz?

A. We take immediate action on anything that has to do with consumer safety. One of our last quality issues, in 2006, involved a labeling error regarding milk in a frozen food product in the Northeast. It was a minor incident, but we immediately pulled all of the product off the shelves.

Q. What advice do you have for consumers who may be nervous about the food they eat after the spinach recall last year, and this year’s recalls?

A. I think consumers need to look at brands and understand the people they’re doing business with. Companies have to be stringent in their processes. Even without regulation, they have to insist on the highest standards.

The annual survey by the University of Michigan on customer satisfaction rated the Heinz brand No. 1 again this year. The earnings we announced in November are testament to our quality. Earnings per share are up 20 percent for the quarter, sales are up 13 percent, and we’re doing well all over the world.

Q. The shareholder activist Nelson Peltz and another member of his company, the Trian Group, won seats on your board in 2006. How has it been going?

A. Very well. Nelson is obsessed with quality and we talk about it frequently. He’s an enthusiastic, energetic addition to the board. Nelson has offered a number of ideas, and I bounce things off him occasionally. He has been a positive influence on the company and we get along well. He’s all about us growing even faster.

Q. Shoppers are none too happy about rising food prices. Do you see them dropping anytime soon?

A. Unfortunately, American consumers are going to pay a little more for food as long as food is being converted to fuel. Ethanol is having an impact on the food supply in the United States, and the demand around the world for American commodities like grain is continuing to put pressure on commodity prices. Supply and demand need to equilibrate. But at the end of the day, you have to remember that food as a percentage of expenditures is relatively small, particularly in the United States. There may be some changes from eating out to eating at home more, which is good for our business.
585 2007-12-22 Scientists are just beginning to see how long-term exposure to chemicals affects humans throughout a lifetime. Studies by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention show that traces of hundreds of chemicals flow through the blood and urine of humans, but the center cautions that their presence does not mean that they cause harm.

Scientific research shows that thousands of chemicals in consumer products have toxic effects, but many of these studies are focused on higher levels of exposure. Less is known about the low but regular doses from everyday products in the home, like emissions from furniture glues and the absorption of cosmetics through the skin.

Industry scientists and many federal regulators say these exposures are harmless. They say that they are going to great lengths to make sure products are safe for intended uses.

“The bottom line is that there isn’t widespread evidence that exposure to consumer products is causing public health problems,” said Mike Walls, director of government affairs at the American Chemistry Council.

The United States has held on to its original 30-year-old chemical regulatory systems, which make it difficult for agencies to ban chemicals or require industry testing. While the government has worked with the industry on a voluntary basis to study as many 2,000 chemicals and phase out certain ones, it has required the study of only 200 chemicals and restricted the use of only 5 since 1976.

But that approach is being challenged by some experts who say that risks remain and that action may be necessary even when the evidence is not clear-cut.

“There’s this expectation that science can solve everything, but science can’t ever meet these expectations,” said Joel Tickner, director of the chemicals program at the Center for Sustainable Production at the University of Massachusetts, Lowell. “For some chemicals we may never be certain that they cause harm.”

The European Union is following this precautionary approach. It recently adopted regulations that have allowed it to restrict hundreds of chemicals and require the industry to test most chemicals sold on the market.

Industry officials insist that the policies in Europe will exact a great economic cost. But many scientists, including some in government and the chemical industry, argue that Washington is taking the wrong path, allowing exposure to some products that are restricted in the European Union, Canada and even several American states.

Some retailers are working to avoid this double standard, choosing to adopt the restrictions of the European Union for products sold in the United States. And in some rare cases, companies are limiting certain chemicals even before Europe does.

Dell is one of the few. The company is planning to phase out brominated flame retardants in the plastics of its products by 2009, including one known as deca that is restricted only in Sweden, Maine and Washington.

“We don’t regionalize,” said David Lear, the company’s director of environmental affairs. “We are doing this because this is where our customers want us to go.”
586 2007-12-22 An investigation by the New York State Office of the Inspector General into potential corruption at a bistate waterfront crime-fighting agency has hit a snag because one of the subpoenaed officers has refused to testify.

The inspector general’s office, which has spent two months looking into allegations of patronage and mismanagement of funds at the Waterfront Commission of New York Harbor, asked a federal judge on Thursday to obligate Ramon Martinez, a police sergeant at the agency, to speak.

The Waterfront Commission, with members from New York and New Jersey, was created more than 50 years ago to root out corruption on the docks. The commission oversees the docks and certifies waterfront workers.

Sergeant Martinez claims that the inspector general’s office does not have the authority to compel his testimony because New York State alone does not have jurisdiction over the bistate agency.

But in its court filing, the office of Inspector General Kristine Hamann noted that the Waterfront Commission was created in a compact between the two states, and therefore is beholden to both states. The governors of both states, for instance, appoint commissioners to run the agency.

If Ms. Hamann’s office does not resolve the standoff in the courts, other potential witnesses may also refuse to testify.
587 2007-12-22 The summit meeting drew a dozen heads of state from the region, including René Préval of Haiti, Daniel Ortega of Nicaragua and Leonel Fernández of the Dominican Republic.

Mr. Chávez, who is offering oil to Caribbean nations on favorable terms, stood front and center, offering his vision of a multipolar world in which the influence of the United States would decline markedly.

“Oil doesn’t have to be about domination,” he said at one point. “It can be our liberation.”

His remarks went on and on, almost Fidel-like in their length, whereas Raúl Castro, a taciturn career military man, was brief.

The Cienfuegos refinery represents Cuba’s Castro-led past and its unknown future. It was built by Moscow and mothballed in 1991 after the Soviet Union collapsed and ended billions of dollars in annual subsidies to Cuba. Venezuela, which has become Cuba’s closest ally, began renovating the plant last year in a joint venture that has cost more than $166 million.

The plant, which will initially process 65,000 barrels of crude a day, further links the two countries, giving Cuba the ability to refine more of the 100,000 barrels in subsidized oil that Venezuela supplies the country daily. It also opens up the possibility that Cuba could refine its own oil if explorations in deep water off Cuba’s coast prove successful.

The United States Geological Survey estimated in 2004 that there were 4.6 billion barrels of undiscovered oil and 9.8 trillion cubic feet of undiscovered natural gas off Cuba’s shores. A 1977 agreement between Mexico, Cuba and the United States divided up the exploration rights in the Gulf of Mexico, with Cuba gaining access to some sites that are as close as 65 miles off Florida.

“For Cuba, this refinery is good news,” said Jorge R. Piñon, a former president of Amoco Oil Latin America and a research associate at the University of Miami’s Institute for Cuban and Cuban-American Studies.

Mr. Piñon said those pushing for a change in government in Cuba should not be distraught by the advance. A Cuba able to refine its own oil, even in a joint venture with Venezuela, would ultimately be less dependent on Venezuela, Mr. Piñon argued, which would be good news for Washington if and when it opted to engage with the Cuban leadership.

Mr. Piñon cited a study from Rice University saying Cuba’s energy needs would nearly double — to 349,000 barrels in 2015 from 179,000 per day in 1998 — if a market economy ever arrived on the island.

Perhaps one thing is sure in Cuba: Fidel Castro will not show up for that.
588 2007-12-22 “I knew it was a big bear, but I didn’t know it was a grizzly,” said Steve Sandru, the driver who hit the bear near Lincoln on the way to his job as a logger. “A grizzly was the last thing I expected to see.”

The human death toll has risen from 111 in 1995 to around 200 in 2005, the most recent year for which figures are available. Officials say better designed highways would help lower the number.

“If you reduce wildlife-vehicle collisions, you would in all likelihood reduce fatalities,” said Rob Ament, research director for the Western Transportation Institute. “The priority would be to treat the hot spots, the areas with the most accidents.”

In addition to the loss of life, the accidents can be expensive. The average cost of a deer collision is $8,000, including repair, towing and cleaning up the carcass, while hitting an elk averages $18,000. If the driver strikes a much larger moose, expenses average about $30,000.

The total cost of the accidents to insurance companies exceeds $1 billion a year, the institute estimates. Pennsylvania has the most vehicle-wildlife crashes. Drivers there struck nearly 97,000 deer in the last half of 2005 and first half of 2006, according to estimates by State Farm, the insurance company.

In the report prepared for the Transportation Research Board of the National Academies of Science, the Montana institute said the number of wildlife crashes was far greater than federal statistics suggested — about 300,000 crashes involving wildlife are reported to the authorities a year — because many of the accidents are reported only to insurance companies.

In recent years, the institute estimates based on insurance industry data, the number of crashes ranged from one million to two million.

Marcel Huijser, a researcher in Missoula, Mont., who prepared the report for the Montana institute, said underreporting of the accidents hindered efforts to prevent them.

Mr. Huijser added, “If you build a wildlife crossing in the wrong location, they won’t use it or use it to the extent you want them to.”

In a separate report delivered to Congress in November , the institute recommended ways to reduce wildlife-related accidents, including the construction of underpasses and overpasses with fences to keep wildlife off highways and directed toward safer crossings. Other methods include culling animals in places where accidents are numerous and “break-the-beam” systems, in which animals are fitted with collars that set off flashing lights when they approach a road.

Banff National Park in Alberta, Canada, has been a large laboratory for studying measures to prevent such collisions, which had been frequent on a four-lane highway that runs through the park in the heart of the wildlife-rich Canadian Rockies. Officials there have built 24 underpasses and overpasses, and the changes have reduced collisions by more than 80 percent, park officials said.

Researchers in Montana are conducting similar experiments along a stretch of Interstate 90 near Bozeman. They have built fences and an underpass to allow animals safe passage.

If they could duplicate the results in Banff, said Mr. Ament of the Western Transportation Institute, few animals and people would die and there would be substantial monetary savings as well.

“Wildlife accidents on Bozeman Pass cost the public a million a year” in crash costs, Mr. Ament said. “With an 80 percent reduction, that would be $800,000 in savings a year.”

The accidents can also take a toll on precarious wildlife populations. The report prepared for Congress found that vehicle collisions were a major source of mortality for 21 federally endangered or threatened species, like the red wolf, kit fox, Key deer and Florida panther.

“It’s a new and dubious record,” Chris Servheen, grizzly bear recovery coordinator for the federal Fish and Wildlife Service, said of the seven grizzlies killed this year on Montana roads. “There are more bears and everybody drives faster, and so roads are more of a problem.”

While the accidents are not threatening the bears’ long-term survival, Mr. Servheen said, they do threaten the species’ ability to expand its range.

The animal deaths can also be traumatic for many people.

In November, a truck driver plowed through a herd of bighorn sheep on Highway 200 near Thompson Falls, Mont. The sheep often congregate there because they eat a salty de-icer the highway department sprays on a treacherous stretch of road. More than 350 wild sheep have been killed here since 1985.

Despite numerous warning signs with flashing lights, witnesses say the truck’s brake lights never came on as it drove through the herd, killing five adult ewes and two lambs. The driver was not injured. An investigator with the Montana Department of Fish, Wildlife and Parks is looking into the accident to see if charges are warranted.

“A lot of people in Thompson Falls take pride in these sheep and are pretty upset,” said Bruce Sterling, a wildlife biologist with the state in Thompson Falls.
589 2007-12-22 PARIS — In an unusual ruling on Friday at the World Trade Organization, the Caribbean nation of Antigua won the right to violate copyright protections on goods like films and music from the United States — an award worth up to $21 million — as part of a dispute between the countries over online gambling.

The award follows a W.T.O. ruling that Washington had wrongly blocked online gambling operators on the island from the American market at the same time it allowed online wagering on horse racing.

Antigua and Barbuda had claimed damages of $3.44 billion a year. That makes the relatively small amount awarded Friday, $21 million, something of a setback for Antigua, which had been struggling to preserve its gambling industry.

The United States argued that its behavior had caused $500,000 damage.

Yet the ruling is significant in that it grants a rare form of compensation: the right of one country, in this case Antigua, to violate intellectual property laws of another — the United States — by allowing it to distribute copies of American music, movie and software products.

“That has only been done once before and is, I believe, a very potent weapon,” said Mark Mendel, a lawyer representing Antigua, after the ruling. “I hope that the United States government will now see the wisdom in reaching some accommodation with Antigua over this dispute.”
590 2007-12-22 ALCOA TO SELL DIVISIONS  Alcoa said late Friday that it will sell its consumer and packaging divisions, which make Reynolds Wrap among other products, to the Rank Group of New Zealand for $2.7 billion in cash. Alcoa said in April that it was consi...
591 2007-12-23 A new report on higher education raises questions about how public universities can improve....
592 2007-12-23 "John would be a really good adviser," Rudolph W. Giuliani said of John McCain....
593 2007-12-23 So, I pull a crumpled-up advertising brochure out of the trash, wet it with dregs from a beer bottle, and start to scrub my jacket vigorously with the damp wad of paper.

Maybe it's the exercise, or maybe the rising sun, but pretty soon I feel I can probably get by without these dirty clothes-at least until tonight. And tonight is too far away to think about.

I stand up, leaving my raincoat and jumper lying in the garbage, where they look as if they belong anyway. I'm left with a big white T-shirt on, my wrinkled neck and skinny arms bare, which feels just right for the temperature. The T- shirt's got writing on the front, but I've forgotten what the writing says. In fact, I can't remember where I got this T-shirt, whether someone gave it to me or I stole it or even bought it, long long ago.

I climb the stone steps back up to the street, and start walking along the footpath in no particular direction, just trying to become part of the picture generally. The big picture. Sometimes in magazines you see a photograph of a street full of people, an aerial view. Everyone looks as though they belong, even the blurry ones.

I figure it must be quite early, because although there's lots of traffic on the road, there's hardly any pedestrians. Some of the shops haven't opened yet, unless it's a Sunday and they aren't supposed to. So there's my first task: working out what day it is. It's good to have something to get on with.

Pretty soon, though, I lose my concentration on this little mission. There's something wrong with the world today, something that puts me on edge.

It's to do with the pedestrians. As they pass by me on the footpath, they look at me with extreme suspicion-as if they're thinking of reporting me to the police, even though I've taken my dirty clothes off to avoid offending them. Maybe my being in short sleeves is the problem. Everyone except me seems to be wrapped up in lots of clothes, as though it's much colder than I think it is. I guess I've become a hard man.

I smile, trying to reassure everybody, everybody in the world.

Outside the railway station, I score half a sandwich from a litter bin. I can't taste much, but from the texture I can tell it's OK-not slimy or off. Rubbish removal is more regular outside the station than in some other places.

A policeman starts walking towards me, and I run away. In my haste I almost bump into a woman with a pram, and she hunches over her baby as if she's scared I'm going to fall on it and crush it to death. I get my balance back and apologize; she says "No harm done," but then she looks me over and doesn't seem so sure.

By ten o'clock, I've been stopped in the street three times already, by people who say they want to help me.

One is a middle-aged lady with a black woolen coat and a red scarf, another is an Asian man who comes running out of a newsagent's, and one is just a kid. But they aren't offering me food or a place to sleep. They want to hand me over to the police. Each of them seems to know me, even though I've never met them before. They call me by name, and say my wife must be worried about me.

I could try to tell them I don't have a wife anymore, but it's easier just to run away. The middle-aged lady is on high heels, and the Asian man can't leave his shop. The kid sprints after me for a few seconds, but he gives up when I leap across the road.

I can't figure out why all these people are taking such an interest in me. Until today, everyone would just look right through me as if I didn't exist. All this time I've been the Invisible Man, now suddenly I'm everybody's long-lost uncle.

I decide it has to be the T-shirt.

I stop in front of a shop window and try to read what the T-shirt says by squinting at my reflection in the glass. I'm not so good at reading backwards, plus there's a surprising amount of text, about fifteen sentences. But I can read enough to tell that my name is spelled out clearly, as well as the place I used to live, and even a telephone number to call. I look up at my face, my mouth is hanging open. I can't believe that when I left home I was stupid enough to wear a T-shirt with my ID printed on it in big black letters.

But then I must admit I wasn't in such a good state of mind when I left home-suicidal, in fact.

I'm much better now.

Now, I don't care if I live or die.

Things seem to have taken a dangerous turn today, though. All morning, I have to avoid people who act like they're about to grab me and take me to the police. They read my T-shirt, and then they get that look in their eye.

Pretty soon, the old feelings of being hunted from all sides start to come back. I'm walking with my arms wrapped around my chest, hunched over like a drug addict. The sun has gone away but I'm sweating. People are zipping up their parkas, glancing up at the sky mistrustfully, hurrying to shelter. But even under the threat of rain, some of them still slow down when they see me, and squint at the letters on my chest, trying to read them through the barrier of my arms.

By midday, I'm right back to the state I was in when I first went missing. I have pains in my guts, I feel dizzy, I can't catch my breath, there are shapes coming at me from everywhere. The sky loses its hold on the rain, starts tossing it down in panic. I'm soaked in seconds, and even though getting soaked means nothing to me, I know I'll get sick and helpless if I don't get out of the weather soon.

Another total stranger calls my name through the deluge, and I have to run again. It's obvious that my life on the streets is over.

So, giving up, I head for the Safehouse.

Excerpted from Vanilla Bright Like Eminem by Michel Faber Copyright © 2005 by Michel Faber . Excerpted by permission. All rights reserved. No part of this excerpt may be reproduced or reprinted without permission in writing from the publisher. Excerpts are provided by Dial-A-Book Inc. solely for the personal use of visitors to this web site.
594 2007-12-23 Eugene and Georgette Edkins and their four dogs, trained in pet therapy, brighten the days of nursing home patients with their regular visits....
595 2007-12-23 IF you are one of those who brim with nostalgia for the storied Lower East Side, with its grubby soul and vaunted pickle vendors, you might want to stop reading now, before you read too much about yet one more velvet-rope nightclub joining the neighborhood.

If, on the other hand, you like your night life sleek and shiny, you probably won’t mind that none of the clubgoers at the bombastic, impenetrable lounge 105 Riv on a recent Thursday had likely heard of Guss’ Pickles.

Still, there was an air of history amid the flashing red and yellow lights and mod fabric paneling on the walls of the lounge, which recently opened inside the Hotel on Rivington, an original harbinger of bohemian doom east of the Bowery and south of Houston Street.

“It’s almost like Studio 54,” said Brandon Coburn, a 29-year-old architect parked on the corner couch in a black blazer and scarf, “not that I was alive then, but I imagine.”

Apparently, the similarities ended at the décor. “People are pretty well dressed here and there are no wasted girls. I was thinking of texting some friends and telling them to come over here,” he said. Then he paused. “What’s this place called?”
596 2007-12-23 Thirty-six Florida State players will not be traveling to the Music City Bowl because of an academic cheating scandal, violations of team rules, injuries or other reasons.

Linebacker Dekoda Watson; cornerback Patrick Robinson, who had six interceptions; and three top defensive tackles were among the players not going to the Dec. 31 game in Nashville against Kentucky as a result of the investigation into an academic cheating scandal at the university or some other violation of team rules.

“It is very important that the media make clear that those missing the bowl trip are not included because of either injury or for a violation of team policy,” the associate athletic director Rob Wilson said Saturday in a statement accompanying the travel list. “It would be irresponsible to imply or state that any or all of the student-athletes will miss the trip for one particular reason.”

The total number of players not going to the game was determined by comparing the travel list with the roster provided by the university. That figure, however, was disputed by Wilson, who said as many as 10 walk-ons would have stayed home regardless. The university announced earlier this week that up to 25 players might be affected by its continuing inquiry into academic wrongdoing by the athletes. It did not identify the players.

The Florida State roster is so thinned by the academic scandal and the other absences that only 43 scholarship players are available.
597 2007-12-23 Thirty-four Florida State players will not be going to the Dec. 31 Music City Bowl against Kentucky because of an academic cheating scandal, other violations of team rules or injuries.Linebacker Dekoda Watson, cornerback Patrick Robinson, who had six interceptions, and three top defensive tackles were among the players sidelined either as a result of the investigation into an academic cheating scandal at the university or some other violation of team rules.“It is very important that the media make clear that those missing the bowl trip are not included because of either injury or for a violation of team policy,” the associate athletic director Rob Wilson said in a statement accompanying the travel list. “It would be irresponsible to imply or state that any or all of the student-athletes will miss the trip for one particular reason.” The junior quarterback Xavier Lee, who started three games for the Seminoles, was among offensive players not traveling. The offensive line was also hit hard with tackle Caz Piurowski, offensive tackle Damon Rose and guard Jackie Claude not making the trip.A violation of team rules could range from poor class attendance to a run-in with the law or failing a drug test, among many other things.
598 2007-12-23 “And there’s no question about it,” Mr. Miller added. “It doesn’t help to have people putting themselves forward as leaders of the party expressing the same disenchantment they hear from the public, saying ‘Just scrap it.’ Congressmen read the morning papers just like everybody else.”

Democrats had long dominated the issue of education until Mr. Bush seized it in his first presidential campaign, making frequent stops at schools to condemn the “soft bigotry of low expectations” for minority children and to pledge that schools in poor areas would improve test results or face federal sanctions. The No Child law passed in his first year of office with the support of a strong centrist coalition.

Seven years later, policy makers debate whether the law has raised student achievement, but polls show that it is unpopular — especially among teachers, who vote in disproportionate numbers in Democratic primary elections, and their unions, which provide Democrats with critical campaign support.

“There’s a grass-roots backlash against this law,” said Tad Devine, a strategist who worked for the past two Democratic presidential nominees. “And attacking it is a convenient way to communicate that you’re attacking President Bush.”

These political realities are making it extremely difficult to rebuild the bipartisan majorities that first approved the law during Mr. Bush’s first year in office, when he worked on the legislation with Mr. Miller and Senator Edward M. Kennedy, a Massachusetts Democrat who is now the chairman of the education committee. Mr. Miller, a passionate advocate of school accountability, took the lead this year in trying to draw up a bill that would change troublesome provisions but preserve its core goals.

He faced obstacles from the start, including opposition from many Republican lawmakers, who say the law intrudes on states’ rights, and from Democrats, who say it labels schools as failing but does too little to help them improve. And by all accounts Mr. Miller worked doggedly to build consensus.

But virtually every proposed change in the law ignited fierce battles, and when Mr. Miller released a draft bill for comment in late August, it pleased no one.

“His bill got creamed,” said Amy Wilkins, a vice president of Education Trust, a group that advocates for disadvantaged children, who has worked closely with Mr. Miller’s staff.

Education Secretary Margaret Spellings also threw herself into the effort, meeting with scores of congressmen and barnstorming through Ohio and Indiana in a school bus, seeking Republican support.

“I killed myself,” Ms. Spellings said. But she acknowledged that the effort now faces tremendous obstacles. “It’s a minefield. If I were George Miller, I’d be saying, ‘How can I put Humpty Dumpty together again?’”

Mr. Kennedy now plans to take the lead with the bill early next year. “We have to convince people that the bill we introduce, that this will not be a rubber stamp of the current law,” he said in an interview.

Mr. Kennedy tried to clear the air last month by quietly inviting Mr. Miller and the presidents of the two largest teachers’ unions to a meeting on Capitol Hill. All four pledged to strive for agreement, but both union presidents said later that it remained unclear whether Congress could produce a bill acceptable to union members.

“I don’t think you recognize the magnitude of the anger that’s out there,” said Reg Weaver, president of the National Education Association. “My members are driving me, and if they think I’m not doing everything I can to change this law, they’ll take me to the woodshed.”

What is not acceptable to union members is unlikely to be acceptable to Democratic presidential candidates. The teachers’ unions have little influence with Republicans, and several Republican presidential candidates, including Mitt Romney, Rudolph W. Giuliani and John McCain, have voiced support for the law. But the Democratic candidates can hardly ignore unionized teachers in Iowa and New Hampshire, who are calling for sweeping change.

Alan Young, president of the National Education Association affiliate in Des Moines, got some television exposure about a year ago when he addressed Mrs. Clinton during a town-hall-style meeting. Pointing out that she was on the Senate education committee, Mr. Young urged her “not to be too quick to reauthorize the law as is,” but rather to rework its basic assumptions.

In the months since, Mr. Young said he has spoken about the law personally at campaign events with Mr. Richardson, John Edwards and Senators Barack Obama and Joseph R. Biden Jr.

“We want them to start over with a whole new law,” Mr. Young said.

Three of the Democratic presidential candidates, Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Obama and Senator Christopher J. Dodd, are on the education committee. Mr. Kennedy acknowledges that campaign criticism of the law could complicate his effort, but pointed out that even though the candidates have criticized the law, most have also expressed support for its core goals.

Mr. Obama, for instance, in a speech last month in New Hampshire denounced the law as “demoralizing our teachers.” But he also said it was right to hold all children to high standards. “The goals of this law were the right ones,” he said.

When Mr. Edwards released an education plan earlier this year, he said the No Child law needed a “total overhaul.” But he said he would continue the law’s emphasis on accountability.

And at the elementary school in Waterloo, Mrs. Clinton said she would “do everything I can as senator, but if we don’t get it done, then as president, to end the unfunded mandate known as No Child Left Behind.”

But she, too, added: “We do need accountability.”

Even though the candidates hedge their criticism of the law with statements supporting accountability, it is hard to imagine their accepting revisions that fall short of a thorough overhaul — and that could be difficult for Mr. Bush to stomach, said Michael J. Petrilli, a vice president at the Thomas B. Fordham Foundation. Even Mr. Bush’s catchy name for the law is likely to disappear in any rewrite, he said.

“I can’t imagine that Democrats could write a bill that would satisfy their caucus but not be vetoed by President Bush, at least in the current environment,” Mr. Petrilli said.
599 2007-12-23 “This is an industry that largely employs women, and this gives them an opportunity to raise funds for a crime that affects women,” Ms. Cohen said.

She added, “I’ve been told the fees to get into these places can be $10, $15. I don’t think another $5 is going to prevent someone from going.”

Texas strip clubs range from dimly lighted dives to clubs that resemble plush hunting lodges and attract men in business suits.

Dawn Rizos runs the Lodge, a club near Texas Stadium. The club has exotic animal heads on the walls and is packed after Dallas Cowboys football games. On a recent weekday, the cars in the valet parking lot included BMWs, a Ferrari and several Mercedes-Benzes.

“We’ll be fine,” Ms. Rizos said, “but this is going to kill some of the smaller clubs.”

The Lodge pays the state $1.3 million a year in taxes, she said, and the new tax would add $60,000 a month.

“Run the right way,” she said, “these businesses can really be a benefit for the community. We’re a huge convention draw for the city. We raise money for charity with our car washes.”

Among those suing the state are the owners of Players, a small topless bar in Amarillo. Adding a $5 tax to their $4 cover charge, they said, could drive away customers and force the club out of business. “They won’t pay it,” said Chandra Brown, president of the company that owns Players. “They won’t come in. They can’t afford it.”

In 2004, the same year that Utah enacted a 10 percent tax on topless clubs, the Texas Legislature considered a $5 per capita tax on strip clubs. The money was designated for schools, but lawmakers did not like connecting strip clubs to children. The idea was mocked as “Tassels for Tots” and the proposal died.

Last summer, though, the idea was resurrected by the Texas Association Against Sexual Assault as a way to pay for more rape-crisis centers.

The clubs contend that the state cannot selectively tax nude dancing even though some may find it offensive. Jonathan Turley, a constitutional law expert at George Washington University, said the Texas tax went too far.

“It seems clear legislators are targeting strip clubs because they’re unpopular,” Mr. Turley said. “Laws like this would expose any unpopular industry to punitive taxes. It could be abortion clinics.”
600 2007-12-23 Few people buy Air Force 1s to wear on a basketball court, and many collectors keep several pairs in pristine condition to protect their value.

Yet people are still unable to describe what has made the shoe so popular.

“People want to analyze it death, but it’s really just that it looks great on your foot,” said Bobbito Garcia, a sneaker and hip-hop expert who wrote the book “Where’d You Get Those? New York City’s Sneaker Culture: 1960-1987.”

Rare Air Force 1s like the Entourage Edition (in honor of the HBO show) and a crocodile-skin 25th anniversary edition cost more than $2,000 at Flight Club New York, a consignment sneaker store in Lower Manhattan.

“The shoe is just an excellent shoe,” said Esteban Padilla, the director of consignment at Flight Club, who was wearing a pair of burnt orange canvas Air Force 1s. “It’s classic.”

One of the keys to the Air Force 1’s popularity is that it comes in so many color combinations.

“It takes color very well,” KeJuan Wilkens, a Nike spokesman, said. “That’s the unique thing about the shoe, different colors — to some people — make it feel like a completely different shoe.”

Yet the white-on-white is the most popular model, although many people also own other colors to complement an outfit or to achieve a different look. Nike often produces limited runs of various colors, and their scarcity makes them more desirable — and more expensive. For many collectors, the ultimate goal is to be the only one wearing a particular sneaker.

Garcia was hand-painting his Air Force 1s in the mid-1980s, well before Nike started producing different colors.

“I didn’t want to wear the same colors that everyone else has,” he said.

Until the mid-1990s, the Air Force 1 was a hit in some Eastern cities. But their popularity among influential rappers of that era helped them to sell across the country and across the globe.

“A lot of that had to do with the huge increase in the shoe’s exposure not entirely due to sports, but now due to the culture,” Garcia said. “A lot of the artists from the Eastern Seaboard who were really killing them — particularly Jay-Z with all the influence he had globally and him wearing Air Force 1 on stage and videos and concert appearances really, really pushed the shoe. Had that not happened, the shoe would have still been selling in New York, Philly and Baltimore; it still would have been that hot shoe. But once all the recording artists started talking about them, then it just went crazy.”

The shoes were popular across the country in 2002, when Nelly, a rapper from St. Louis, recorded “Air Force Ones” with a chorus that includes the lines, “I said give me two pair/I need two pair.”

As more colors became available starting in the mid-1990s, Nike began releasing limited-edition models and collaborations with artists that became collectors’ items. The company managed sales by regularly releasing models in fewer numbers than the market demanded. Nike also gave select vendors more exclusive products.

“That phenomenon is going on across the whole industry where the kid really wants to have a unique product, he wants to have a one of one if he can,” Powell said. “I think Nike is feeding that interest on the part of the consumer by keeping supply tight.”

The sneaker’s history and original purpose are lost on today’s youth.

“There are new generations coming into it that have no idea that it was a basketball shoe when it came out,” Garcia said. “No idea. So in another 10 or 20 years, they won’t even know that Jay-Z wore them. They won’t have any idea. They’ll just keep wearing them cause it’s a cool shoe.”
601 2007-12-23 He scouted Canada’s selection camp in Calgary, Alberta, and came away impressed with two players eligible for the 2008 draft: Steve Stamkos, a center for the Sarnia Sting of the Ontario Hockey League, who landed atop the December rankings of the International Scouting Services; and Luke Schenn, a defenseman for the Kelowna Rockets of the Western Hockey League, who climbed to No. 4 in the rankings.

Nikita FilatoV, a dangerous wing for CSKA Moscow, could be the first European taken in the 2008 draft. Colin Wilson, a lanky playmaking center from Boston University, whose father, Carey Wilson, played in the N.H.L., is the top 2008 prospect on the United States team.

There are also several top prospects for the 2009 draft: John Tavares, a high-scoring wing for the Oshawa Generals of the O.H.L.; Jordan Schroeder, a small, quick forward for USA Hockey’s National Team Development Program; and Victor Hedman, a 6-foot-5, 220-pound 17-year-old from the Swedish hockey hotbed Ornskoldsvik.

When Quebec traded the future Hall of Famer Peter Stastny to the Devils in 1990, a high-scoring second-year center named Joe Sakic stepped in as the engine that drove the Nordiques.

Two Stanley Cups, five 100-point-plus seasons and 17 years later, Sakic, 38, is sidelined with a stubborn groin injury. But his team, now known as the Colorado Avalanche, has stayed near the top of the N.H.L.’s Northwest Division thanks to a high-scoring second-year center named Paul Stastny, Peter’s son.

With 43 points in 35 games, Stastny, who turns 22 on Thursday, was among the top 10 N.H.L. scorers before Saturday’s games. Is the torch being passed? Stastny laughed at the notion.

“I don’t know about that,” he said, adding that Sakic “has been the best player for the Avs for the 19 years he’s been playing.”

Stastny, a surprising finalist for the Calder Trophy as the rookie of the year last season, said he did not believe in sophomore slumps. On the advice of his father — “the biggest role model I’ve had in my life” — he took a few weeks last summer to savor a successful first season, then got back to work, building up his strength and speed. The work paid off starting on opening night: Stastny scored three goals.

Centering a line with the veteran scorers Ryan Smyth and Milan Hejduk, Stastny scored 12 points in 10 games with Sakic out. Oilers Playing for Ties?

Last week, the Edmonton Oilers set an N.H.L. record by participating in four straight shootouts, which meant they had played four straight tie games.

Playing for ties through 60 minutes — and the automatic point that comes with it, win or lose, under the N.H.L.’s idiosyncratic system — seems to be the Oilers’ new modus operandi. They finished regulation and overtime with the score tied in 12 of the season’s first 35 games. That was four more times than the closest team, Anaheim.

For every one of those 60-minute ties, the Oilers also managed to keep it tied through the five minutes of overtime and make it to a shootout — which happens to be something they are egood at, going 10-2. Without the shootout, the team’s record through Friday would be 6 victories, 18 losses and 12 ties.

One way to discourage teams from playing for ties would be to award 3 points for regulation-time victories and 2 points for overtime or shootout victories, as in international tournaments and most European leagues. Such a measure was proposed to the N.H.L. general managers’ committee last season, but a faction led by Anaheim’s Brian Burke voted it down.

Women’s hockey made a stride last week with the announcement that the International Ice Hockey Federation would induct three of the sport’s stars into its Hall of Fame in May in Quebec. Cammi Granato of the United States and Angela James and Geraldine Heaney of Canada will become the first women inducted in the players category. The Hockey Hall of Fame in Toronto has no female players as members.
602 2007-12-23 AFTER years of traffic jams and air pollution, New Yorkers are finally starting to rethink the role of cars in our city. Mayor Michael Bloomberg’s PlaNYC initiative has suggested programs like congestion pricing, new bike lanes and expanded mass transit. But city policy has not yet addressed a confusing tangle of off-street parking rules that still quietly encourage automobile use. These requirements not only add to congestion and pollution, they also make life in the city more expensive for every New Yorker.

In most of New York City, a developer who puts up a new building is required to provide a minimum number of parking spaces. These requirements were first put in place in 1950, when the prevailing wisdom was that the automobile would be the transportation mode of the future.

Planners and civic leaders believed that New York had to make itself car-friendly if the city was to grow and prosper. So it responded by requiring developers to build off-street parking for their tenants. These new rules, which varied according to the uses and location of the buildings, seemed like sound planning at the time: force the parking onto private property and solve the public’s problem.

But off-street parking requirements have themselves become an expensive problem: developers must devote money and space to parking lots and garages, or not build at all. This limits the supply of housing, retail and office space, creating higher rents for residents and businesses, and higher prices for consumer goods.

Like any market distortion, parking requirements have created their own set of absurd choices. For example, affordable housing developers looking to build in most parts of New York outside of Manhattan must either provide parking that their target market can’t use, forgo construction altogether or change their mission and construct fewer apartments for higher income tenants.
603 2007-12-23 A headline last Sunday with the Ping column, about research partnerships between universities and corporations, referred incorrectly to the status of Bell Labs. Although it is no longer part of AT&T, it has not been discontinued; it is now the research arm of Alcatel-Lucent. The column also misspelled the surname of the president of Arizona State University, who said that universities’ roles in such partnerships would evolve in coming decades. He is Michael Crow, not Crowe.
604 2007-12-23 One way to get a “handle” on taxes could be to have our state government adopt a law similar to the law in Massachusetts that allows cash-poor elderly homeowners to provide aid to their communities in return for a reduction on their real estate taxes.

Boston, and a good number of other municipalities in Massachusetts, have taken the advantage of their state’s law and provide their elderly volunteers with a real estate tax credit. The credit equals $6.75 an hour of work by each senior citizen. The maximum annual real estate tax reduction for each volunteer is $750.
605 2007-12-23 However capably federal lawyers may have prosecuted the case against Varsha and Mahender Sabhnani, who were convicted last week of enslaving and torturing two Indonesian women in their opulent home in Muttontown, it was certainly not brilliant or aggressive law enforcement that broke the case.

It was a timely convergence of luck, courage and kindness that brought the crimes to light. If one of the victims had not decided, in her desperation, to run away, then to linger half-naked outside a Dunkin’ Donuts until an employee brought her in and called the police, the cruelties behind the walls of the house on Coachman Place may have continued in utter secrecy.

Crimes like these, and their victims, are by their nature all but invisible. It is impossible to know whether the Sabhnani case — with its accounts of women beaten, slashed, burned with cigarettes and scalding water, and forced to choke down hot chili peppers and vomit — is extraordinarily aberrant or tragically commonplace.

But it is not a stretch to say that the possibility of similar abuses in the New York region is great, given its abundance of wealth and of immigrants, and the prevalence of exploitation of undocumented workers in far more visible sectors of the economy. Human trafficking and slavery are global phenomena, and there is no reason to believe this region is somehow untouched by it.

Wherever workers are vulnerable, they will be mistreated — and who could be more vulnerable than a desperately poor immigrant toiling in a country whose language she does not understand, living in constant fear of dismissal or deportation, or of retaliation against her relatives back home?
606 2007-12-23 Any shortfall would affect the $2.6 billion budget the county adopted for 2008, which assumed the 2.1 percent increase this year in sales tax revenue and projected a further 2.5 percent growth next year.

“We’ll have to not hire people we were planning to hire, cut down on our purchases and do whatever it takes to keep our budget balanced without raising taxes,” County Executive Thomas R. Suozzi said. He said raising property taxes was not an option.

Mr. Suozzi described sales tax problems as “a bump in the road” that could be managed and said the county had about $70 million in rainy-day funds if needed.

Sales taxes make up about 30 percent of Nassau County’s revenues. In Suffolk’s 2008 budget, property taxes account for about 19 percent of county revenues.

Even though the portion of property taxes going to finance county government is relatively small — school taxes typically account for 50 to 60 percent of property taxes — elected county officials have long been gun-shy about raising those taxes. Both Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive, and Mr. Suozzi have avoided increases in property taxes.

“In Suffolk that’s the third rail of politics,” said Martin R. Cantor, director of the Long Island Economic and Social Policy Institute at Dowling College. “You raise them, you die.” The situation is no different in Nassau, he said.

But avoiding tax increases when sales tax revenues go flat can mean depending on revenues and savings that critics see as speculative, or on borrowing and new debt.

The Nassau County Interim Finance Authority, the state agency that oversees Nassau finances, said last month that the county’s 2008 budget was balanced on $56.9 million in risky items that assumed labor concessions, state actions and other questionable savings or revenues. It wants Mr. Suozzi to provide a detailed contingency plan by Jan. 15.

The County Legislature’s budget review office detailed the same risks and said the 2008 budget was “based upon the dubious assumption of numerous optimistic revenue estimates and labor concessions.” The county comptroller, Howard S. Weitzman, put risky budget items at $50.6 million.

Another step Mr. Suozzi took — borrowing $50 million to finance refunds, known as tax certiorari settlements, for erroneous county property assessments — brought an outcry from the Finance Authority. The state created the authority in 2000 after the county nearly fell into bankruptcy.

“Previous borrowing for certiorari payments was one if not the pre-eminent reason for the original fiscal crisis of the county which led to the creation of NIFA by the state,” the authority’s chairman, Ronald A. Stack, said in a Nov. 27 letter to Mr. Suozzi. “We cannot begin down that road again.”

Mr. Suozzi said he disagreed with the agency and cited 12 bond upgrades since he took office in 2002 as evidence the county was fiscally sound.

The borrowing, he said, “is a temporary measure to address problems that are related to the current time.” He cited poor sales tax collections and a change in accounting.

But Mr. Weitzman said in a statement that “borrowing to pay real estate tax refunds is deeply troubling.” Mr. Weitzman, who said he thought the county would finish the year on budget or with a small surplus, also said that in light of disappointing sales tax revenues, his office would reinstitute sales tax audits to increase collections.

While the Democratic majority in the County Legislature supported the Suozzi budget plan with minor changes, the majority leader, Judith A. Jacobs, said the lower sales taxes were disturbing. “The bottom does appear to be falling out, and not just in Nassau County,” she said.

Thomas Conoscenti, a Long Island economist who advised Suffolk on sales tax estimates, said the counties could expect little help from the economy. “It’s not going to get any better in 2008,” he said.

Nassau, he said, would have to cut expenses, raise property taxes or do both.

Peter J. Schmitt, the minority leader in the Nassau Legislature, said Republicans had warned Mr. Suozzi, a Democrat, and legislative Democrats that a budget shortfall was coming.

“They are going to have to come up with a plan to cut spending, and quite frankly I don’t know if they are capable of doing that,” Mr. Schmitt said.

Finance officials in Suffolk said the county was on track to hit a budgeted 3.12 percent increase in sales tax revenues, for a total of $1.17 billion, which would be 45.5 percent of total revenues in the 2007 budget. The county projected a 2.25 percent increase in its 2008 budget.

But the budget surplus is estimated to decline to $122.8 million this year, from $154.8 million in 2006. Frederick B. Pollert, the deputy county executive for finance, said he expected a further decline in 2008.
607 2007-12-23 The recession-fighting effects of monetary expansion, however, are not limited to the housing market. When lower interest rates make fixed-income investments less attractive, investors turn to the equity market and bid up stock prices. Higher stock prices, in turn, make consumers wealthier and more eager to spend. They also make it easier for corporations to expand their businesses with equity financing.

By making United States bonds less attractive to world investors, lower interest rates from a monetary expansion also weaken the dollar in currency markets. A depreciation of the currency is not in itself to be feared. Treasury secretaries often repeat the mantra of favoring a strong dollar, but these pronouncements are based more on public relations than hard-headed analysis.

A weak currency is a problem if it results from investors losing confidence in an economy. The most damaging cases are the episodes of sudden capital flight, as occurred in Mexico in 1994 and several Asian countries in 1997. This outcome is unlikely for the fundamentally sound American economy, but fear of it is one reason that Treasury secretaries maintain public fealty to a strong dollar.

But if a weakened currency comes about because the central bank is trying to stimulate a lackluster economy, the story is very different. In that case, depreciation is not a malady but just what the doctor ordered. A weaker currency makes domestic goods more competitive in world markets, promoting exports and bolstering the economy. The dollar’s falling value is one reason exports of goods and services have grown more than 10 percent in the past year.

The Fed constantly monitors all these developments to ensure that the economy has the stimulus it needs, but not too much. William McChesney Martin, the Fed chairman in the 1950s and 1960s, famously joked that the Fed’s job is “to take away the punch bowl just as the party gets going.”

As the economy flirts with recession, we need to remember that this aphorism has a flip side. The Fed also has the job of spiking the punch with grain alcohol when the party starts to flag, and that is exactly what it has been doing.

The Fed has cut its target for the benchmark federal fund rates to 4.25 percent from 5.25 percent last summer. It is a good bet that we will see further cuts over the next few months. And if the chance of a recession turns into a real recession, you can count on it.

Admittedly, monetary policy can sometimes use an assist from fiscal policy. If an economic downturn is deep, if a recovery is anemic or if the Fed is running out of ammunition, Congress can help raise aggregate demand for goods and services. In 2003, the Fed had cut its target interest rate all the way to 1 percent, the economy was still suffering from the lingering effects of recession, and there were increasing worries about deflation. A tax cut was a good complement to monetary expansion to get the economy going again, even though it increased the budget deficit.

Today’s situation is different. The Fed has plenty of room to cut rates further, if it deems such cuts necessary. At the moment, recession is only a possibility, and inflation is a bigger worry than deflation. In this environment, there is no need for a short-run fiscal stimulus. Congress is better off focusing on longer-term problems, like the looming entitlement crunch or fundamental tax reform. (But don’t hold your breath.)

IN creating the Fed, Congress wisely made it a technocratic institution free of many of the political pressures that accompany other policy decisions in Washington. Subsequent experience in the United States and abroad confirms that more independent central banks lead to better economic outcomes. That’s why, in recent years, many nations have passed reforms to insulate central banks from politics.

The Fed’s independence was created by statute and could just as easily be taken away. The Fed is now coming under heat for not having prevented the subprime crisis, for not fully anticipating it once it was inevitable, and for not responding more vigorously now that it has occurred. Daniel Gross, a financial journalist writing for Slate, has gone so far as to liken the Fed and its chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, to FEMA and its erstwhile head Michael Brown.

The truth is that the current Fed governors, together with their crack staff of Ph.D. economists and market analysts, are as close to an economic dream team as we are ever likely to see. They will make their share of mistakes, but it is too easy to find flaws when judging with the benefit of hindsight. The best Congress can do now is to let the Bernanke bunch do its job.
608 2007-12-23 Like most other people, I try to indulge the jolly and carefree spirit of the season and, also like many, wind up feeling as if a bulldozer has flattened me. Not infrequently I find myself thinking of the Vienna-born genius analyst Melanie Klein, who made it her business to examine the complexities of generosity and gratitude and to unravel the reasons why the act of giving is so complicated and fraught.

Klein’s writings are full of “the primal object” and the all-signifying breast, and also of sensible and lucid reference to insights older than psychiatry. It was Chaucer, she points out, who in the “The Parson’s Tale” suggested that envy may be the worst of the deadly sins, “For all other sins are sins only against one virtue, whereas envy is against all virtue and all goodness.”

Envy, of course, is the dirty secret of Christmas, tucked in a corner with the dust balls behind the tree. It’s easy to forget amid the loopy round of office parties and eggnog overdose that a lot of debt is being created at this time of year, and I don’t mean the fiscal variety. Someone at Christmas is always getting something that someone else more richly deserves. Someone is always being cast into a funk when the ribbons fall away to reveal a lump of emotional coal.

This is not even metaphorical in every instance; more than one person of my acquaintance has been handed at Christmas an unambiguous hunk of anthracite. And who has not been presented with a shiny holiday box and braced for the radioactive surprise inside?

Presents (as distinct from gifts, which I was always told are God’s to dispose) can be a delight, of course; I yield to no one in the degree of irrational delight I experience at the sight of a parcel wrapped with a bow. Yet often enough the contents are so freighted that one would gladly pay the giver good money to take them away. To re-gift is not much of a solution; un-gifting is great, but it requires that one develop amnesia or ingest large quantities of drugs.

What, after all, is one to do when the package contains, say, the supersize calculator that turns up in a brilliant television commercial? Is the donor providing a coded reminder? (“I’m doing the math on us!”)

Is there really any good way to react to the bizarre object a friend once got for Christmas that came ornamented with surf-casting lures? There is not.

And what of the misshapen sweater knit for another friend by an ambivalent fiancée? Could it truly have been accidental that his conflicted Penelope knit the garment so that the left side, where the heart lies, was much smaller than the rest?

Certainly one can try to lower expectations and manage the cold disappointment. But even that defense never helped a pal whose mother reliably treated him each Christmastime to a package of tube socks.

I could be succumbing to an attack of O. Henry here, but it seems truer than ever to me that the strange and the ambiguous and the mixed and the heartbreaking intentions behind present-giving are an overlooked bonus. The emotional resonance of the stuff one gives and receives is a form of gold. That 45-r.p.m. record my mother presented to me (and isn’t it mothers who do all the hefty lifting at Christmas, pace Melanie Klein?) is still yielding its various meanings, notwithstanding the fact that she has been dead for three decades.

I feel less lost at Christmas if I conjure an image of the person she was imagining I might become. If the problem with presents is that they reveal too much, that is also their value. Even with the most ludicrous or empty of presents, the exercise of following the object back to its intention is beneficial.

I am thinking now of an arts patron I used to know who made annual Christmas presents for the artists and writers she collected. In an early phase of her patronage, this woman had the habit of presenting the members of her coterie with silk pajamas. By the time I came around, the nightclothes had given way to items she considered ethnic and quaint. There were tin ex-votos and folk art baskets and beaded Zulu dolls.

And while it was no cinch getting rid of those talismans, to this day I feel a strong residual pleasure when I summon the image of this sophisticated and wealthy but emotionally meager woman lifting an Amazon rain stick and allowing herself to imagine, for an instant, that she could use it to make rain.
609 2007-12-23 Once, she had roasted a chicken, ate what she could, then cut up the meat and stored it in the refrigerator. That night, I ate almost all the chicken. In the morning she held up the glass container to the kitchen window.

“Looks like a little mouse got into my leftovers,” she said.

Of course, because Karen was feeding me, I felt even more annoyed with her. She was a practical person, more conservative, more stable than I. Despite the fact that I was running around with the college writing crowd, mostly pale Irish-boy poets, I was almost always lonely.

My boyfriend, a charismatic young classics scholar and a radio actor, possessed a studied aloofness, and left me alone many nights. I would stay home on my own trying to read John Donne’s poetry and listening for familiar American songs on my little transistor radio.

In early December, Karen wrote me a letter and left it on my bed. “I sometimes think I might be crazy,” she wrote, “I know you don’t like me, but I want us to try and be friends.” The letter went on to say she knew I was eating her food and it was O.K. with her, and that she admired me for wanting to be a writer. She’d come to one of my student readings and heard me typing in my bedroom. She asked if I would share one of my stories with her.

I didn’t know what to make of the letter; I can still see the white envelope in my dark room. For a few days she looked at me expectantly, her big gray eyes trying to catch mine. But after a while she realized I wasn’t going to acknowledge the letter or her interest in making friends. I still ate her food in the dark and spoke to her only when necessary in the light.

Christmas break was approaching. Some of the girls were going home, while a few of us, including me and Karen, were traveling to London. We stayed at a youth hostel behind the British Museum.

The place was like a military barracks, sparse and smelling of dirty tennis shoes. It was filled with students — Germans, Swedes, a shy boy from Spain and lots of Americans. I took a bunk as far as possible from Karen’s. I think she assumed we’d hang out together, but my roommate from college in the United States flew over, and we ran around going to art films and looking for cool record stores.

If Karen was disappointed, she didn’t let it slow her down. I remember her in her puffy ski jacket and hand-knit wool hat and mittens, lumbering back from sightseeing. She’d seen the Rosetta stone! She’d seen Lewis Carroll’s original manuscript for “Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland!” Her cheerful self-sufficiency drove me crazy.

On Christmas Eve the hostel began to clear out. My college roommate flew home. In the evening, I called my parents from a phone booth. I’d heard from my brother that my mom and dad weren’t getting along, and I could tell by their pinched voices that both of them were miserable. My coins ran out while my mom was in midsentence.

I went outside. The streets were mostly deserted until church doors opened and well-dressed Londoners in cashmere coats, Burberry scarves and shiny leather shoes flooded out and dispersed into their town houses.

On the way back to the hostel, I began to feel dizzy and then sick to my stomach. I went to the side of a building and threw up. Once inside the hostel I ran up the stairs to the bathroom and spent the better part of the night lying on the cold tile floor, heaving up bile. My legs and back ached and my sweaty hair stuck to my forehead. As the sun rose I made my way to my bunk, where I slept well into the afternoon.

I woke on Christmas Day feeling sore, cotton-mouthed, fetid. I was so lightheaded I thought I might float up and bump against the ceiling. All I wanted was a hot bath, but I knew I couldn’t make it down the three flights of stairs to the room with the tub, and there was no way I could get down to the front desk on the ground floor to pick up a clean towel.

When I saw Karen come in, I called her, and she came right over. I asked if she’d help me down the stairs to the bathtub and get a towel; I made it clear I didn’t need help bathing, just getting down the stairs. She nodded and took my arm. The well-lighted steps were steep and exacerbated my dizziness.

Inside the bathroom, the tub was gigantic and hallucinatory in its whiteness. I’d never been in an old-style tub before, deep with claw feet and a comfortable backrest. The hot water sent up little wisps of steam. As the water cooled, I worried about getting back upstairs. Should I yell up the three flights for Karen to come back down? Or should I try to struggle up the incline by myself?

I was shaky getting out, holding the tub’s edge and then lunging for the doorknob. When I opened the door, there was Karen sitting on the steps, reading. She looked up and gave me a shy smile. Supporting my elbow, she helped me back up the stairs. Moving slowly, she paused every few steps to let me rest. Once I was settled in bed she brought over a bottle of water and a banana from her stash of supplies.

Back in Ireland, she never said another word about me scarfing her leftovers, while I was maybe less snooty but still aloof. It wasn’t until years later I realized what a great gift Karen’s kindness had been.

Now I often think of the big porcelain bathtub in that ratty British hostel, and Karen’s presence just outside the door, waiting to make sure that I was all right.
610 2007-12-23 According to figures compiled by the international flight information company OAG, the number of low-cost flights in the Asia-Pacific region has grown from 3,900 six years ago to over 60,000 today. “The rapid pace of low-cost carrier expansion is set to continue,” says a report issued by Derek Sadubin, chief operating officer at the Center for Asia Pacific Aviation, another industry analyst. “The projected low-cost carrier fleet growth figures are staggering.”

But explosive growth can also make companies reckless. “Regulators are again concerned that the market has been growing too quickly,” wrote Nicholas Ionides of Flight International, a leading aviation industry publisher. Though many budget carriers have young fleets, some Asian carriers buy old planes that had been sitting, unused, in American deserts; on a Nok Air flight this year from Bangkok to , what looked like duct tape was holding together seats and parts of the bathroom.

The expansion of low-cost carriers and the boom in travel in India and create other worrying trends. They have sparked a severe pilot shortage in Asia, which may hurt safety as more inexperienced men and women settle into the cockpit. Meanwhile, some aviation analysts worry that Asian governments, caught in a low-cost frenzy, are allowing businesspeople to start airlines without enough capital on hand. Many Asian nations cannot compare with Western Europe and , where carriers like and emerged in markets that already had strong safety standards.

“When the U.S.A. deregulated in the late 1970s and early 1980s, it was feared that it would increase the accident rate,” said David Learmount, a safety expert at Flight International magazine. “But it didn’t. Part of the reason it didn’t was that the Federal Aviation Administration heightened its safety oversight vigilance just in case.”

Southwest, for instance, has a strong safety record, yet in Thailand not only One-Two-Go but also the low-cost carrier Phuket Air have come under scrutiny. Phuket Air overshot a runway landing in eastern Thailand. Before taking off to in 2005, passengers reportedly saw fuel leaking out of a Phuket Air plane and refused to fly on it. In 2006 Phuket Air was banned from flying into the . (It was reinstated earlier this year.)

“Deregulation in made already bad safety records even worse because the aviation authorities had no teeth, so there was no safety oversight to protect travelers,” Mr. Learmount said.

Indeed, Indonesia may be the scariest nation in Asia for fliers. In the past three years alone, a plane from Adam Air, an Indonesian low-cost carrier, vanished without a trace; another Adam Air plane cracked open upon landing; a Garuda Indonesia flight overran the runway in Yogyakarta and caught fire, killing at least 20; and an aircraft of Lion Air, another discount airline, went off a runway on Java, killing about 30.

Smart travelers are learning how to find solid information about Asia’s new airlines. The Aviation Safety Network ( ) contains statistics on air accidents broken down by carrier and region, as well as weekly updates of air safety incidents. Other Web sites like have similar data on incidents; offers passengers’ takes on many budget carriers.

Government regulators outside Asia can also help. The International Aviation Safety Assessments program of the ( ) contains ratings of each nation’s air safety, while the European Union maintains a blacklist of airlines ( ) that are banned from flying into . Currently, the European Union bans every Indonesian carrier.

Eventually, the opinions of foreign visitors may force Asian airlines to improve. “Watch Korea and ; their safety oversight was rubbish not long ago, but now it’s good,” Mr. Learmount said. “Korean Air lost its right to code-share with U.S. carriers — notably Delta — until it set up a credible safety management system.”

“The driving force” for safer planes is “competition itself,” he says. “People in the U.S. don’t fly with airlines that keep crashing.”
611 2007-12-23 To the Editor: Why doesn’t The New York Times print an article on the 53 coolest backpacker destinations, where you can stay for under $10, eat a decent meal for $3 and sit around a funky common room and chat with fellow travelers about real issues involving real people?
612 2007-12-24 A Citigroup analyst left a lump of coal for Och-Ziff Capital Management, the hedge fund that went public last month. The analyst, Prashant Bhatia, began covering the fund with a "hold" rating, writing in his research note that Och-Ziff might be fa...
613 2007-12-24 Maxjet Airways said on Monday that it had filed for bankruptcy protection, taking what the all-business class airline called a "drastic measure" because of soaring fuel prices and the deteriorating credit market. The bankruptcy forced Maxjet to re...
614 2007-12-24 Analysts predict that next year's initial public offerings will include a steady stream of activity, including credit card issuer Visa's $10 billion I.P.O., Reuters reported. Visa, the biggest deal so far in 2008, is coming to market after MasterC...
615 2007-12-24 Merrill Lynch, in an effort to raise cash amid mounting mortgage losses, agreed Monday to sell the majority of its capital finance business to General Electric for an undisclosed amount. The deal will allow Merrill to reallocate about $1.3 billion...
616 2007-12-24 Hedge funds are scrutinizing their levels of exposure to bank defaults, in a telling reversal of conventional risk management concerns, according to a report in The Financial Times. While bank exposure to the hedge funds they trade with has been i...
617 2007-12-24 Takeover target the Montreal Exchange will become the majority owner of the Boston Options Exchange, in a $52.5 million cash deal announced Friday. Montreal Exchange – Canada's top market for financial derivatives – said it will buy an additio...
618 2007-12-24 Vermont regulators on Friday rejected a $2.7 billion plan by FairPoint Communications to buy Verizon's landlines in northern New England. The ruling by the Vermont Public Service Board cited FairPoint's financial viability. "The board found that F...
619 2007-12-24 Merrill Lynch, the brokerage firm, threw a party for investors Monday, but it could not get in the door.

Stock markets moved higher after Merrill Lynch announced a $6.2 billion investment from the Singapore government and a mutual fund manager, setting off a small rally among financial companies. Shares of Goldman Sachs and Citigroup rose 2 percent, but Merrill’s shares dropped 2.3 percent to $54.26 after giving up its morning gains.

Still, the announcement reinforced a renewed confidence in the credit market, as market watchers hope ailing investment banks can be buoyed by capital injections from wealthy foreign investors.

Strong financials helped the markets continue their gains from Friday, when an unexpectedly strong report on consumer spending eased recession fears sent the Dow Jones industrial average up more than 200 points. The Dow rose 98.68 points, or 0.73 percent, to 13,549.33 in Monday’s trading. A broader measure of the financial market, the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, ticked up 0.81 percent to 1,496.45. The Nasdaq composite rose 21.51 points, or 0.8 percent, to 2,713.50.

Christmas Eve is one of the lightest trading days of the year, and stock markets closed at 1 p.m. Lower volume usually makes for more volatility, but analysts said Monday’s gains were a sign that last week’s optimism had survived the weekend.

“Just because it’s light trading doesn’t mean that it’s not a positive sign,” said Larry Adam, chief investment strategist at Deutsche Bank. “We could just have easily seen the market go lower.”
620 2007-12-24 LONDON (AP) — Maxjet Airways said on Monday that it had filed for bankruptcy protection, taking what the all-business class airline called a “drastic measure” because of soaring fuel prices and the deteriorating credit market.

The bankruptcy forced Maxjet to reserve hotel rooms for stranded holiday passengers who had booked return flights between New York and London. The carrier, based in Dulles, Va., was also working with another airline to find alternative routes, executivess said.

In a message posted on the airline’s Web site, the president and chief executive, William D. Stockbridge, said the airline had filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy.

“With today’s fuel prices and the resulting impact on the credit climate for airlines, we are forced to take this drastic measure,” Mr. Stockbridge said. “Our top priority is to assist our customers, particularly those who already have begun their travel with us, in securing alternative flight accommodations.”

Maxjet started in 2005 and offered “all-premium” flights between Stansted Airport in London, New York, Las Vegas and Los Angeles.

The airline also advised customers who had booked tickets to seek refunds from their travel agency or credit card company.
621 2007-12-24 Merrill Lynch & Company, bracing for billions of dollars of mortgage losses in the fourth quarter, said on Monday that it planned to sell most of its Chicago-based middle-market lending business to General Electric’s commercial finance arm.

The value of the deal was not disclosed. But the chief executive of Merrill Lynch John A. Thain said the sale of most of Merrill Lynch Capital would allow the brokerage to allocate about $1.3 billion of capital to other parts of the company.

Merrill Lynch said it would sell assets amid huge losses on subprime mortgage securities.

The company lost $2.3 billion in the third quarter after recording an $8.4 billion write-down, mostly on subprime mortgage-related securities. Some analysts expect an even bigger write-down in the fourth quarter.

GE’s acquisition of the Merrill Lynch Capital assets is expected to close in the first quarter. The deal will add more than $10 billion in assets and $5 billion in commitments to GE Capital Commercial Finance’s base of $260 billion.

GE Capital will buy Merrill Lynch Capital’s corporate finance, equipment finance, franchise, energy and healthcare finance units. Merrill Lynch Capital’s commercial real estate finance unit is not part of the transaction.
622 2007-12-24 Popular with women for her no-nonsense brand of self-help, Ms. Meyer was asked by Mr. Grassley’s office to explain the “tax-exempt purpose” of purchases including a “commode with marble top” bought for $23,000 for her headquarters.

“Our timely response to the senator’s efforts to ensure the financial accountability of all nonprofits is a decisive demonstration of the high standard of fiscal responsibility that we hold ourselves to,” Ms. Meyer said in a statement on her Web site. A spokeswoman said Ms. Meyer would make no other statements now.

Lawyers for Randy and Paula White contacted Mr. Grassley’s office asking for more time, a spokeswoman for Mr. Grassley, Jill Gerber, said. The Whites started Without Walls International Church and Paula White Ministries in Tampa, Fla., but are now divorcing.

Lawyers for Benny Hinn of Benny Hinn World Healing Center Church, a faith-healing ministry based in Grapevine, Tex., that holds large crusades around the world, agreed to respond by Dec. 12 but did not do so and have not since been in contact, Mr. Grassley’s spokeswoman said.

In an e-mail response to a request for comment, a spokesman for Mr. Hinn said that the church had been in touch with the Senate office and “plans to facilitate a response to Senator Grassley’s inquiry by January 30th.”

Bishop Eddie L. Long of New Birth Missionary Baptist Church in Lithonia, Ga., and the Rev. Creflo A. Dollar Jr. of World Changers Church International in College Park, Ga., have indicated they will not cooperate with the inquiry.

Mr. Dollar sent “a letter indicating that the ministry does not intend to provide information voluntarily and raised the idea of a subpoena,” Ms. Gerber said in an e-mail message.

Lawyers for Bishop Long said in a statement that a letter he sent to Mr. Grassley asserted that the senator’s request “clearly disregards the privacy protections of the church under law and appears to cross the line of constitutional guarantees for churches.”

At the outset, some churches, including those outside the inquiry, argued that Mr. Grassley’s inquiry violated the constitutional separation of church and state. But some legal and church scholars said that the government was within its rights to examine whether tax-exempt entities like churches are abiding by the law.

Church finances are generally private, because churches do not have to file a 990 form with the Internal Revenue Service as other nonprofits do. None of the ministries questioned by Mr. Grassley belong to the Evangelical Council for Financial Accountability, a 20-year-old accreditation agency that focuses on board governance and financial transparency and has 2,000 members.

Mr. Grassley began looking into the finances of nonprofits about six years ago, investigating organizations as diverse as the Nature Conservancy, the Smithsonian Institution and Harvard. Because of his reputation, whistle-blowers inside and outside evangelistic ministries began contacting his office with information about two and half years ago, his aides said.

Mr. Grassley may send letters to other ministries in the future, aides said. Because of news media coverage of the letters to the six ministries, his office has been flooded with calls about them and other church organizations, too, the aides said.
623 2007-12-24 “It’s quite clear that P.P.P. in the next few days will try to form a government,” said Panitan Wattanayagorn, a political analyst at Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok. “But their legitimacy will be challenged by the Democrats and other parties.”

The P.P.P. leader, Samak Sundaravej, said that he had received congratulations by telephone from Mr. Thaksin and that he had already approached smaller parties to discuss forming a coalition government. One message of the vote, he said, is that if anyone is thinking of staging another coup, “Please think carefully.”

The P.P.P. said during the campaign that it would bring Mr. Thaksin back from his self-exile in London, where he is believed to have remained politically active behind the scenes.

The leader of the Democrat Party, Abhisit Vejjajiva, conceded defeat, saying: “Now it is the duty of the leaders of the P.P.P. to invite other parties to form a government. And it is the right of other party leaders to make a decision on what is the best for the country.”

He added, “If the P.P.P. is unable to form a government, the Democrat Party is ready to take the lead and form a government.”

However, analysts said the win was not as overwhelming as it at first appeared, noting that the Democrat Party seemed to have won in the most crucial area, Bangkok. And the vote was close on slates of candidates listed by their party affiliations.

During the rule of the junta, a court disbanded Mr. Thaksin’s former party, Thai Rak Thai, for election irregularities and barred him and 110 other party executives from politics for five years. The P.P.P. said it would pardon them all; under Thailand’s election laws, though, Mr. Thaksin could not become prime minister in the current government because he would not be an elected member of Parliament.

The vote was seen as part of a long-running clash of cultures that became acute during Mr. Thaksin’s six years in power. With a broad array of populist programs, he mobilized the electoral power of the country’s rural majority, threatening the traditional domination of an established elite that includes the bureaucracy and military.

“I voted for Thaksin’s party,” said Siriporn Buntam, the owner of a small restaurant in the rice-growing province of Lopburi, west of Bangkok. “Only when he was prime minister did we really get attention,” she said.

Sanit Chutipattana, 58, a salesman in Yala, in the Democrat Party’s stronghold in southern Thailand, also supported Mr. Thaksin. “Thaksin is smarter, better in economics,” he said. “In the past I had voted for Democrats, but this time I changed my mind. It’s time to change.”

The groundswell of support for Mr. Thaksin became evident as the campaign proceeded. The appointed civilian government had been seen as ineffectual, and the Democrats failed to capitalize on Mr. Thaksin’s troubles.

When they seized power, the generals said they were doing so in the name of democracy and promised to return the country to civilian rule. But they produced a new Constitution that weakened democratic institutions and shifted power from the executive branch while guaranteeing the influence of the military.

Under an internal security law adopted last week, the military will have the power to intervene in the political process without consultation with the civilian government.

Last August, as the law was being drafted, Human Rights Watch, which is based in New York, branded it “a silent coup.”
624 2007-12-24 Michael Tetherow, a New York-based painter, died on Dec. 15 at his home in Denver. He was 65 and had lived in New York until late last year.

The cause was complications from rheumatoid arthritis, said his brother, Tim Tetherow of Denver.

Mr. Tetherow placed great emphasis on the physical nature of paint and painting, taking many of his cues from Abstract Expressionists like Clyfford Still. But his art had a Symbolist side as well, especially in the 1970s and early ’80s, when his large, thickly worked monochromes had eyelike ovals, either cut or painted, that stared out from their centers.

In the late 1980s and the ’90s, when he lived on the East End of Long Island and often worked outdoors without a roof over his head, nature became a dominant theme. His paint, thinned to the consistency of watercolor, was poured in progressively narrower rivulets whose intersecting lines suggested root systems or tangled undergrowth. He augmented their intricacies with delicate pencil renderings of plants and intimations of insects, creating a sensation of teeming life. At the end of his life, suggestions of faces crept back into his work.

Mr. Tetherow was born in Tacoma, Wash. In the early 1960s, he studied art at Puget Sound University there and the Otis Art Institute in Los Angeles. He received a bachelor of fine art degree from the San Francisco Art Institute in 1968 and moved to New York shortly afterward.

He had his first solo show in New York at the Bykert Gallery in 1974, exhibited at the Robert Miller Gallery in 1978 and had nine exhibitions at Jason McCoy starting in 1984. His work is in several public collections, including those of the Whitney Museum of American Art, the Brooklyn Museum, the New York Public Library and the Dallas Museum of Art.

Mr. Tetherow’s 30-year relationship with Kathie Keller, a former fashion designer, ended in 2001.

In addition to his brother, he is survived by a daughter, Morgana Keller-Tetherow, of Southampton, N.Y.
625 2007-12-24 LOS ANGELES — When Jay Leno, David Letterman and Conan O’Brien return to the air in early January, it may already be too late for Hollywood studios.

As striking screenwriters keep late-night talk shows in reruns, Hollywood publicists have been scrambling to find new ways to promote star-driven holiday and Oscar movies. In the meantime, they have suffered from what can only be described as “couch crunch.”

Meryl Streep could not pitch “Lions for Lambs” on “The Tonight Show With Jay Leno” on NBC as planned. Johnny Depp was scheduled to appear on both Mr. Leno’s show and “The Late Show With David Letterman” on CBS to promote his movie “Sweeney Todd.” “The Today Show” on NBC, swamped with more pitches than usual, bumped him when he could not appear in the studio.

The movie industry has long regarded late-night television as one of the most important marketing tools in its arsenal. After swamping consumers with television commercials, studios dispatch stars to do appearances on shows like “Jimmy Kimmel Live” on ABC to seal the sale.

But the Writers Guild of America strike, now entering its seventh week, shuttered every late-night show, tearing a hole in carefully planned marketing campaigns. With the exception of the low-rated “Last Call With Carson Daly” on NBC, which resumed production on Dec. 3 after its host crossed the picket lines, all of the late-night shows remain dark.
626 2007-12-24 McKinney sent about 400 holiday e-mails directing people to the site for “Snowglobe Boy” (snowglobeboy.mckinney.com), and the link went viral. By the end of Mr. Eckerson’s 78.5-hour ordeal, McKinney’s holiday e-greeting had appeared on YouTube, “The Early Show” on CBS and the computers of more than 45,000 viewers.

The agency did not save money — Mr. Brinegar said he had to buy more band width to support the extra traffic to the company’s Web site — but it did buy wider fame. “We live such busy lives, you don’t miss the thing that doesn’t come. You’re more surprised by the thing that comes,” Mr. Brinegar said.

Even among friends and family members, electronic holiday greetings are gaining popularity as people send less postal mail and grow more accustomed to living their lives online.

“We are doing the ‘save trees/our friends move too much and we can’t track addresses’ approach this year,” read one e-card from Beth Jacob-Files and Matt Files of Portland, Ore. They designed a photo-filled e-newsletter and sent it to about 75 friends and family members (though a few people who do not use e-mail got it the old-fashioned way).

“It was by far more cost and time efficient,” said Ms. Jacob-Files by e-mail. “I think it was more fun as well, because it provided us with an opportunity to creatively work together and reflect on our past year’s adventures.”

As user-generated Web content has taken hold, a small stable of Web sites like rattlebox.com and JibJab.com have begun offering customizable greetings, which let people add their own photos or personal messages to videos. A popular offering on rattlebox.com, an e-card site, has psychedelic images of Santa and spinning reindeer, and offers the sentiment, “Have a trippy Christmas.” (Note: This may not be the one to select for your boss.)

Sales of both traditional and electronic cards are difficult to track, but greeting card companies and trade groups say that traditional cards are still going strong. The Greeting Card Association, an industry trade group, estimates that sales of greeting cards are stable at about two billion holiday cards nationally every year out of seven billion cards sold annually. (The United States Postal Service also projects little change from previous years in the number of first-class letters sent in time for Christmas.)

E-card figures are more elusive, especially as the user-generated content trend nurtures small sites with interactive messages and videos. Hallmark estimates that about 300 million e-cards are sent every year, while American Greetings, one of the largest e-card makers, saw a 10 percent increase in traffic to sites this year. According to ComScore Media Metrix, 39.7 million people visited e-card sites in November, compared with 39.3 million in November 2006.

Corporate etiquette consultants say traditional cards are always a good idea. Ann Marie Sabath, who runs a company that gives lessons in business etiquette, said clients should receive paper cards, and colleagues and other business contacts can get e-mail greetings.

Sending e-cards is “a form of social networking — you want to send an e-card to your colleagues,” she said. But paying clients may expect more from their professional advisers. “If they want to be green conscious, that’s fine, but they should also know who’s feeding them,” Ms. Sabath said.

Eric B. Rothenberg, a partner at the law firm O’Melveny & Myers who directs its green committee, said his firm sent about 10,000 e-cards this year, but individual partners sent out an additional 1,200 traditional cards at their own expense.

“There’s plenty of people who have a client base who think they’re not ready to convert yet,” he said. But the e-cards have been “pretty well received,” he added. “We’re sensitive to the fact that we have lots of clients who might not treat a paper card as kindly as they would in the past.”

Like many companies using e-cards this year, O’Melveny & Myers sent greetings as a simple image embedded in an e-mail message rather than as an attachment or a link. Mr. Rothenberg said his clients appreciate the thought, and the lack of flashy features made it easier for the greeting to get past corporate spam filters.

“Most of my clients don’t have that kind of time,” Mr. Rothenberg said. “I want them to see it and say, ‘That’s nice. That’s environmental,’ and then move on.”

Jessica S. Kleiman, the vice president of publicity for Hearst Magazines, said she switched to e-cards this year for practical reasons. As her staff has grown, “for every person to sign every card is extremely time-consuming and quite a production to organize,” she said.

Instead, she created an electronic image with all 11 signatures and zapped it effortlessly to more than 200 people. “We probably would have been a little bit more discriminating” when using paper and postage, Ms. Kleiman said. “I think we cast a wider net because we were able to do it easily.”
627 2007-12-24 Bow Wow wanted an arena full of screaming teenagers (and screaming future teenagers) to know that a mere five-figure fee wouldn’t stop him from giving them a show to remember. “They said it’s a $10,000 fine if I go over,” he shouted, on Friday night. “But I said, ‘The hell with the money!’ ” And so the show went on.

The arena was Madison Square Garden, and the occasion was the New York appearance of this year’s Up Close and Personal tour, starring Bow Wow and Chris Brown. The opening act was Soulja Boy Tell’em, the 17-year-old dance-rap phenomenon, whose messy, exuberant set felt like a teenage riot. On a night like this one, Bow Wow, 20 — a kid rapper turned not-quite-grown-up rapper — could play the tough guy without anyone complaining.

In turn Bow Wow’s mean mugging left Mr. Brown free to play the nice guy. During his likable set, which closed the show, Mr. Brown, 18, appeared as a good-natured show-off, rightly proud of his own nimble dance steps and nearly as nimble songs. Bow Wow has a longer track record, but Mr. Brown has an easier task ahead of him. If you’re looking to make the transition from teen-pop sensation to grown-up star, it probably helps to be a singer instead of a rapper.

Not that Bow Wow has done badly for himself. He made his debut — as Lil’ Bow Wow — in 1993, in a skit on Snoop Dogg’s first album, released when he was 6. He was 13 when he made a debut album of his own, “Beware of Dog,” and he followed it with a string of successful CDs and hit singles. Two weeks ago he released “Face Off” (Columbia), a collaboration with the crooner Omarion, who successfully graduated from the boy band B2K.

The album includes “Hey Baby (Jump Off),” a playful and infectious track based on LL Cool J’s “Going Back to Cali.” And on Friday night Bow Wow brought Omarion onstage as a surprise guest. (He also brought out Fabolous; Mr. Brown countered by producing LL Cool J.) They did “Girlfriend” together, although at least three young women probably didn’t notice. They were too busy fighting over the shirt Bow Wow had tossed into the audience.

Bow Wow moves and raps fluently, and lately he has been on a quest for respect. In a video that circulated widely online he stormed out of a spoof interview on BET, declaring: “You got a problem, you can holler at me, dog. That’s real talk.” Onstage he accompanied his smiles, winks and kisses with plenty of scowling; at one point, he exclaimed: “I played Madison Square Garden six times. They know who I am!” He has plenty of swagger, then, but surprisingly little flavor. If he really wants to join the hip-hop pantheon, he’ll need more than competence and confidence.
628 2007-12-24 The report often makes sound but incomplete points. It assails, for instance, the practice of allowing plaintiffs’ lawyers to make campaign contributions to the judges they appear before, citing a Business Week article that cited a poll by Justice at Stake, a nonpartisan organization that supports judicial independence. The poll surveyed 2,428 state court judges; almost half said campaign contributions influenced judicial decisions.

But the poll did not ask about contributions from plaintiffs’ lawyers. It concerned all contributions, including those from business groups. And in many states these days, contributions from business groups are much larger than those from plaintiffs’ lawyers and labor unions.

Along these same lines, although the report beat up the West Virginia judiciary pretty thoroughly, it did not consider what was surely the most striking decision there this year. In November, the state’s highest court threw out a jury verdict for more than $50 million in a fraud case against affiliates of Massey Energy, a coal-mining company. The vote was 3 to 2.

Voting with the majority was Justice Brent D. Benjamin, who was elected to the court in 2004 with the help of about $3 million in advertisements and other support from Don L. Blankenship, Massey’s chief executive officer. Justice Benjamin refused to disqualify himself from the case.

All five justices agreed that “Massey’s conduct warranted the type of judgment rendered in this case.”

“However,” the justices in the majority wrote, “no matter how sympathetic the facts are, or how egregious the conduct, we simply cannot compromise the law in order to reach a result that clearly appears to be justified.” There followed many pages of complicated legal reasoning that a dissenting judge characterized as “horse puckey.”

Mr. McKinney, the association’s spokesman, said the Massey decision had landed too late for consideration in this year’s survey. But he said it was unlikely to have been included in any event.

“The hellholes report is not first and foremost a report of good news,” Mr. McKinney said. “And I would imagine that was largely a decision that we deemed righteous.”

The report carried water for business interests in other ways, sometimes with assertions that seemed evenhanded but were open to question. The association defended, for instance, the fine-print arbitration clauses in consumer contracts for car rentals, cellphones and the like. The clauses require consumers to give up their right to sue in court.

“Businesses have long included arbitration agreements in their contracts with other businesses and customers because they provide a quicker and less costly means of resolving business disputes,” the report said. “Arbitration works well for everyone except the trial lawyers because arbitration does not generate large litigation payouts.”

But a new study, to be published in the University of Michigan Journal of Law Reform next year, found that businesses actually use arbitration clauses in major contracts with other businesses less than 10 percent of the time. By contrast, more than three-quarters of consumer contracts make arbitration mandatory.

That suggests, the Michigan study said, that corporations’ real motive in insisting on arbitration clauses in consumer contracts is to gain a strategic advantage, particularly by avoiding class actions.

Theodore Eisenberg, who conducted the Michigan study with Geoffrey P. Miller and Emily Sherwin, said he had a question for the authors of the hellholes report. “How many consumers actually avail themselves of this purportedly low-cost, efficient process in the case of cellphone and credit companies?” he asked. Then he answered his own question: “It is just not economically worth it.”

Mr. McKinney said his group stood by the statement in the report, adding that comparing the two kinds of contracts was “apples and oranges.”

It is true that there are judicial hellholes. They are what Richard F. Scruggs, the prominent trial lawyer, likes to call “magic jurisdictions” — the ones where, as he told an industry conference in 2002, “the judiciary is elected with verdict money” and “it’s almost impossible to get a fair trial if you’re a defendant.”

But if judges can be bought with money from the plaintiffs’ bar, there is no reason to think that businesses cannot compete in that marketplace as well.

Mr. Scruggs was indicted in Mississippi last month on charges that he tried to bribe a judge, and he has pleaded not guilty.

There is, of course, a difference between what he was charged with doing and the routine phenomenon of allowing judges to accept campaign contributions from the people who appear before them. There is a difference, sure, but is it one of kind or one of degree?
629 2007-12-24 OFF TARGET Instead of dominating this holiday season, Target is muddling through it, perplexing rival merchants and Wall Street analysts, who consider the chain a bellwether and are scrutinizing its performance for clues on the health of the econo...
630 2007-12-24 SCHREIBMAN--Lucille, 87, of Manhattan Beach, Brooklyn and Boca Raton, FL. Loving mother of Sam, Ilys, Sheryl, Neal, Joan and Claire. Cherished grandmother and great-grandmother. Services were held....
631 2007-12-25 East Side: Dozens of little angels got their wings as costumed cherubs "flying" in procession at the Episcopal Church of the Heavenly Rest, at East 90th Street and Fifth Avenue in Manhattan. The children presented two Christmas Eve performances on Monday as part of the church's annual Family Christmas Pageant, re-enacting the Christmas story through scriptures and familiar carols.

Larchmont: At Tony’s Nursery in Larchmont, N.Y., Nora LeMorin and her 12-year-old daughter, Ruby, of New Rochelle, continued a tradition of buying and trimming their tree on Christmas Eve.

Bensonhurst: Debra Schempp made some last-minute decorating adjustments on a house in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, that could put the North Star to shame.

Chelsea: Lines startedforming earlyMonday morningfor the annualChristmas Evemeal at the HolyApostles SoupKitchen, on Ninth Avenue at 28th Street in Chelsea. Thesoup kitchen, anoutreach programof theChurch of theHoly Apostlesthat celebratedits 25th anniversaryin October,says it servesabout 1,100 hotmeals everyweekday.
632 2007-12-25 What the Edwards campaign wants for Christmas....
633 2007-12-25 “The Great Debaters” is aware that debating, an activity synonymous with nerdiness, needs a shot of adrenaline to be sexy to a mass audience. Early in the movie Tolson barks with the ferocity of a Marine Corps drill instructor, “Debate is a blood sport.” As the team starts winning, his severity never diminishes. The debates themselves are swiftly edited compendiums of best-of moments.

The four teammates handpicked by Tolson are Henry Lowe (Nate Parker), a handsome, clean-cut youth with a lurking bad-boy streak; Hamilton Burgess (Jermaine Williams), a dutiful eager beaver whose family pressures him to drop out when Tolson’s radical political organizing comes to light; Samantha Booke (Jurnee Smollett), a strait-laced aspiring lawyer and soft-edged proto-feminist; and James Farmer Jr. (Denzel Whitaker), a preacher’s son whose father (Forest Whitaker) keeps him on a tight leash.

Despite his name, the actor playing James Jr. is unrelated to either Mr. Washington or to Forest Whitaker. It is worth noting that the senior Farmer was the first African-American in Texas to earn a doctorate. His son, a leader of the civil-rights movement in the 1950s and ’60s, founded the Congress of Racial Equality.

This being Hollywood, a soupçon of romance is required. The movie dawdles only as long as necessary on the pudgy, cow-eyed young James’s hopeless infatuation with Samantha, who becomes romantically involved with Henry.

“The Great Debaters” doesn’t shy away from showing the humiliation and persecution of blacks in the Jim Crow South. When James Farmer Sr., accompanied by his family, accidentally runs over a pig, his humiliation at the hands of the owner and his redneck buddies makes your stomach turn.

Later, Tolson, driving home from a debate with his students, comes upon a lynching. The flashes of the hideous atrocity sear your mind, and when the mob, still riled with blood lust, chases the car, your heart is in your throat. Afterward, Henry’s shame and stifled fury drive him to a self-destructive spree.

Robert Eisele’s screenplay imagines a smooth historical arc. The characters’ reactions to these events, it implies, sow the seeds of the civil-rights movement, which is also foreshadowed in the debates, whose topics too conveniently address civil-rights issues. Strangely, the Wiley College team always argues the progressive view. Its initial push to break the color barrier in college debating by competing with a white college in Oklahoma is too neatly paralleled by the debate topic: whether blacks should be allowed to attend state universities. A more intellectually subtle, less manipulative movie would have had the Wiley team arguing at least once against African-American interests.

Even though the film makes it clear that the team’s speeches are prepared in advance by Tolson, the literary and historical references blithely tossed around by the team members show astounding erudition, and their speaking voices carry only the tiniest hint of an East Texas twang.

For dramatic purposes the setting of the climactic debate has been changed in the movie to Harvard from the University of Southern California, where it actually took place. Again the issue is too neatly selected: nonviolent civil disobedience versus the rule of law.

The wonder is that “The Great Debaters” transcends its own simplifying and manipulative ploys; it radiates nobility of spirit.

“The Great Debaters” is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). It has mild sexual situations and some strong language.

Directed by Denzel Washington; written by Robert Eisele, based on a story by Mr. Eisele and Jeffrey Porro; director of photography, Philippe Rousselot; edited by Hughes Winborne; music by James Newton Howard and Peter Golub; production designer, David J. Bomba; produced by Todd Black, Kate Forte, Oprah Winfrey and Joe Roth; released by the Weinstein Company and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc. Running time: 2 hours 3 minutes.
634 2007-12-25 Home prices in Britain fell the most in three years in December, and the threat of more declines may cause the property market to seize up in 2008, said Hometrack Ltd., a London-based research group. The average cost of a home in England and Wales slipped for a third month, dropping 0.3 percent to £175,200 ($348,350). “The second half of the year has seen a major reversal in confidence,” Richard Donnell, director for research at Hometrack, said in a statement. “Just as the financial markets have faced a liquidity squeeze, so the housing market is in danger of facing its own liquidity squeeze.” Prices increased 3 percent from a year earlier, the least in 18 months, Hometrack said.
635 2007-12-25 “Berkeley has one of the strongest chemical engineering schools in the world, but it will be the M.B.A.’s who understand areas like microfinance solutions to drinking water problems,” Mr. Hawkins said.

That realization is spreading throughout academia. So more universities are setting up stand-alone centers that offer neutral ground on which engineering students can work on alternative fuels while business students calculate the economics of those fuels and political science majors figure how to make the fuels palatable to governments in both developing nations and America’s states.

“We give professors a chance to step beyond their usual areas of expertise, and we give students exposure to the worlds of science and business,” said Daniel C. Esty, director of the year-old Yale Center for Business and the Environment, a joint effort between the School of Management and the School of Forestry and Environmental Studies.

Similar setups are getting easier to find. Last year, the University of Tennessee consolidated all of its environmental research programs under a new Institute for a Secure and Sustainable Environment. Arizona State University did the same in 2004, when it inaugurated its Global Institute of Sustainability.

The Arizona institute reports directly to the university president and is run by Jonathan Fink, who is also the university’s sustainability officer.

“We want all the departments to contribute without thinking they own the initiative themselves,” Mr. Fink said. Already, experts in biogeochemistry — the study of the scientific underpinnings of earth’s origins and existing biosystems — are working with social scientists to study the impact of rapid urbanization on plants and animals.

It is impossible to quantify the growth of stand-alone centers. There is no naming convention — some are sustainability centers, some are environmental institutes and some are global warming initiatives. And many do not stand alone at all, but are neatly tucked inside an existing school.

For example, in 2003 the University of Pittsburgh School of Engineering dedicated the Mascaro Sustainability Initiative, which studies green construction and sustainable water use.

Nor do the environmentally themed names necessarily convey an enviro-centric agenda. Many sustainability centers — the Kenan-Flagler Center for Sustainable Enterprise at the University of North Carolina is a good example — address global cultures, business ethics and corporate social responsibility along with environmental issues.

The Aspen Institute’s Center for Business Education compiled a list of more than 600 academic centers that, at first blush, sound as if they would be stand-alone environmental facilities. Rich Leimsider, its director, figures only a handful really are.

“We are seeing more centers framed as sustainability, but they may not be qualitatively different from the ethics, innovation or globalization centers of 15 years ago,” he said. “Universities realize that you can discuss sustainability with a C.E.O. and not get laughed out of the room.”

But Mr. Leimsider said he does see more stand-alone centers that are devoted primarily to analyzing environmental problems, influencing environmental policy and preparing students to think collaboratively when they try to solve those problems outside the academic world.

Many of the centers have one foot set squarely outside the ivory tower. Mr. Esty said the Yale center was developing an “eco-services clinic” that would help companies address various environmental issues. Duke’s Corporate Sustainability Initiative, which is a joint venture of its earth sciences, business and environmental policy schools, is also a founding member of the Chicago Sustainable Business Alliance. Its faculty and students have already developed a small wind turbine for private use, and have helped local businesses reduce their carbon footprints.

Nor does the money for the centers necessarily come from university coffers. Often, it comes from individuals who are passionate about the environment.

More than 10 years ago, Frederick A. and Barbara M. Erb gave $5 million to the University of Michigan to found the Erb Institute for Global Sustainable Enterprise. They have given an additional $15 million since.

Thomas P. Lyon, the institute’s director, said much of the money goes to defray third-year costs for graduate students who pursue a dual degree in business and natural sciences. But the institute is now talking to venture capitalists about teaching students to invest in green technologies, and is setting up projects for students in China and elsewhere. It also gives small research grants to professors who affiliate with the institute; most recently, it awarded money for a study of botanical gardens.

“We provide a community where students and professors can discuss research with different disciplines,” Mr. Lyon said.

Similarly, Julie A. Wrigley, who has a home in Arizona, provided $15 million for Arizona State’s institute, and this year gave an additional $10 million to create a degree-granting School of Sustainability within the institute.

The vast majority of the money for the Golisano Institute in Rochester came from B. Thomas Golisano, the founder of Paychex and one of the underwriters of the Clinton Global Initiative.

Mr. Golisano, who donated $10 million, said he expected the institute to “produce the first generation of professionals with the vision and know-how to deliver on the promise of sustainability.” Indeed, Mr. Nasr said the institute already offers courses on sustainability to all freshman and is asking students to submit ideas for projects.

Sometimes, government chips in. Mr. Fink notes that Phoenix is “the poster child” for the so-called urban heat island effect — the phenomenon in which big cities absorb heat during the day and release it at night, causing temperatures to rise. So his institute has amassed funds from the Environmental Protection Agency, the State of Arizona and some local businesses for a project to see if certain construction materials can alleviate the problem.

Companies are getting into the financing act as well. Unlike traditional partnerships between business and academia, in which companies that provide funds have the right to commercialize any breakthroughs, most of these funds come with no strings attached.

Several years ago Enterprise Rent-a-Car donated $10 million to the Donald Danforth Plant Science Center in St. Louis for research on growing crops for food. This year it gave $25 million to create the Enterprise Institute in conjunction with Danforth, to do research into biobased fuels.

“Danforth understands cellulosic research, so they are best positioned to figure out how to make fuel from soy and corn,” said Patrick T. Farrell, vice president for corporate responsibility at Enterprise.

Four companies — ExxonMobil, General Electric, Schlumberger and Toyota — have anted up for the Stanford University Global Climate and Energy Project, which explores new energy technologies. The Shell Oil Foundation has been financing Rice University’s Shell Center for Sustainability since 2002. Wal-Mart has promised money for an Applied Sustainability Center at the University of Arkansas.

Berkeley, meanwhile, is using Dow’s gift to set up a Sustainable Products and Solutions Program within its existing Center for Responsible Business. That is in the Haas Business School, but Kellie A. McElhaney, the center’s director, insists the program will draw on Berkeley’s chemists, biologists, financial analysts, policy specialists, even lawyers.

The program is now taking applications for grants from Berkeley students and professors who want to conduct collaborative research into topics like providing clean drinking water or more efficient fuels. And Ms. McElhaney said other companies have expressed willingness to kick in funds.

“Commercialization takes forever if the chemical engineers and the business types do not coordinate,” she said. “So think how much easier it will be for chemistry graduates to work inside a company if they already know how to interact with the business side.”
636 2007-12-25 Maxjet Airways, which flew between London and three United States cities, ceased operations on Monday — leaving jets on tarmacs and stranding passengers on Christmas Eve — as the all-business class airline filed for bankruptcy protection.

Maxjet took what it called a “drastic measure” because of soaring fuel prices and the deteriorating credit market. But analysts suggested that competition from AMR’s American Airlines on one of Maxjet’s crucial routes also played a role.

“High fuel prices were a contributing factor,” said Robert Mann, an airline consultant in Port Washington, N.Y., but American’s inauguration in October of service between Kennedy Airport and Stansted in London “was the coup de grace.”

The airline started in 2005 and offered “all-premium” flights between London and New York, Las Vegas and Los Angeles. But it could not compete with American’s frequent-flier program, “newer, more efficient aircraft with upgraded business class seats, corporate contracts and over all 20 flights daily to three London airports,” Mr. Mann said.

While business class service can be very profitable to airlines, it is also a very thin market, Mr. Mann said, serving typically “40 to 70 seats per flight, depending on the route and aircraft.” Any loss of market share to a rival can be devastating, particularly to an all-business-class carrier like Maxjet that did not have revenue from economy passengers — or a robust route system — to fall back on.
637 2007-12-25 Shares rose on Monday after a billion-dollar investment deal between Merrill Lynch and the Singapore government raised hopes that wealthy foreign investors would come to the rescue of America’s ailing investment firms.

But investors were unimpressed with Merrill itself, as shares dropped 3 percent to $53.90 on worries that the company has more losses related to the subprime mortgage market to deal with.

Most major Wall Street firms recorded significant gains, with Goldman Sachs and Citigroup rising more than 2 percent.

The strong performance among financial stocks lifted most markets, driving the Dow Jones industrial average up 98.68 points, or 0.73 percent, to 13,549.33. A broader measure of the financial market, the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, ticked up 11.99 points, or 0.81 percent, to 1,496.45. The Nasdaq composite rose 21.51 points, or 0.8 percent, to 2,713.50.

Christmas Eve is one of the lightest trading days of the year, and stock markets closed early at 1 p.m. Lower volume usually makes for more volatility, but analysts said Monday’s gains were a sign that last week’s bullishness had survived the weekend.
638 2007-12-25 SHANGHAI — Morgan Stanley, the investment bank, and the Chinese government said Monday that the bank had determined the range of prices to be used when China’s international investment fund converts $5 billion in securities into Morgan Stanley stock.

The China Investment Corporation agreed last week to buy Morgan Stanley securities that will be convertible into up to 9.9 percent of the bank’s stock in 2010, at a price of no more than 1.2 times the “reference price” that was confirmed Monday. The reference price would be $48.07 to $57.68.

The Chinese investment will help soften the blow from mortgage-related debt that led the bank to report a $9.4 billion write-down in the quarter that ended Nov. 30. Morgan Stanley reported a $3.6 billion net loss for the quarter.
639 2007-12-25 The hedge fund Pershing Square Capital Management said on Monday that it had raised its stake in the discount retailer Target to nearly 10 percent and had met with management to discuss ways to bolster the company’s share price.

Pershing, which is managed by William A. Ackman, recently raised a $2 billion fund to invest in Target. It now holds a 9.97 percent stake, up from about 9.6 percent in July, according to a Securities and Exchange Commission filing.

Pershing said it had also invested in Target swaps and options, which combined with the stock give the fund an economic exposure equal to a 12.6 percent stake.

Mr. Ackman said in November that he had raised his stake in Target, but declined to say by how much.

Pershing said it might meet with Target’s management again to discuss the company’s strategy, business, assets, operations, capital structure or financial condition.

When Pershing disclosed the 9.6 percent stake in July, analysts speculated that Mr. Ackman would pressure Target to sell its credit card portfolio or real estate assets. In September, Target said it was weighing a sale of its credit card assets.
640 2007-12-25 “What’s interesting is how closely the index tracks the Consumer Price Index,” Mr. Dunigan said. That index, the inflation measure produced by the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, was up 4.3 percent in November from a year earlier.

Unskilled labor had remained consistently cheap for years, but the eight maids a-milking received their first raise in a decade after Congress lifted the minimum wage to $5.85 an hour. The maids can expect to receive more increases next year and in 2009.

Even so, their cost — $46.80 this year — is modest, and dwarfed by the 21.5 percent rise in the price of the five gold rings specified in the carol. That price tag came to $395, compared with $325 last year.

Among the tokens of affection, the six geese and four calling birds went up the most, 20 percent and 25 percent. Geese prices reflect higher prices for food, Mr. Dunigan said, and the price of calling birds — canaries, in today’s parlance — is driven up by demand and shipping costs.

Unlike last year, when the lords a-leaping, pipers piping, drummers drumming and ladies dancing ran up the bill, pay for skilled labor increased modestly in 2007. Nine ladies dancing commanded only a 3 percent increase, to $4,759, based on figures from Philadanco, a modern dance company based in Philadelphia.

The 10 lords a-leaping — based on prices provided by the Pennsylvania Ballet — also rose 3 percent, to $4,285. The 11 pipers were up 4.2 percent, to $2,213, and the dozen drummers also cost 4.2 percent more, at $2,397, based on information from a Pennsylvania musicians’ union.

This year, the partridge’s cost, according to information from the Cincinnati Zoo, remained the same — $15. But the pear tree went up to $149, a 15.4 percent increase, according to figures from a Philadelphia nursery, which attributed the price increase to commercial landscaping demand.

After all the verses — when the singer has 12 partridges in 12 pear trees — the song’s gifts would cost $78,100, up 4 percent over 2006. This contrasts with $128,886, a 2.5 percent increase from last year, to assemble the same gifts on the Internet. Giving only the gifts from the 12th day, an online shopper would be set back $31,249, 3 percent more than last year and significantly more than the old-fashioned way of gathering the gifts because shipping costs drive the tab higher.

The only time that the PNC index has not closely paralleled the Consumer Price Index was in 1995, when swan prices tumbled because of increased availability. The cost for seven swans a-swimming is $4,200 today, nearly half the price two decades ago.
641 2007-12-25 Re “A Comet Is Missing, So Spacecraft Will Go to NASA’s Next Choice”; (Observatory, Dec. 18): While NASA approved rerouting the Deep Impact spacecraft to comet Hartley 2, the new mission and new destination were devised by a team of scientists led by University of Maryland astronomer Michael A’Hearn, who also led the original Deep Impact. In fact, most key aspects of this new mission are handled by the University of Maryland-led team. Giving NASA all the credit is like ignoring Christopher Columbus and saying Queen Isabella discovered America because she supplied the ships and money for the trip. Lee Tune

The writer is associate director of university communications for the University of Maryland.
642 2007-12-25 Scientists who study evolution have long known that whales must have had ancestors that lived on land. Some characteristics were dead giveaways, most notably the fact that they are air-breathers.

But fossil evidence of the transition wasn’t found until the mid-1990s, when Hans Thewissen, a professor of anatomy at Northeastern Ohio Universities College of Medicine, and others described 50-million-year-old fossils of extinct whales with hind limbs. “It was clear they could walk on land,” Dr. Thewissen said.

What was still missing was the closest nonwhale ancestor, the animal that was the link to these early whales. Now Dr. Thewissen and colleagues are reporting in Nature that they’ve found the link. It’s Indohyus, a fox-size deerlike animal that lived in what is now India and Pakistan at around the same time as the earliest whales.

The animal, of the order artiodactyla, the even-toed ungulates, has been known for about two decades, but it wasn’t until Dr. Thewissen examined fossils from Kashmir that he realized certain characteristics of the animal’s skeleton tied it to whales. Modern and ancient whales have a bone in their ear that is a half-sphere, thick on the outside and thin on the inside, the better to hear underwater.

“Indohyus has that,” Dr. Thewissen said. “It’s the first nonwhale to have that. That’s the most spectacular piece of evidence.” Further indication of the link to whales was found in the structure of some if its teeth, he said. Other evidence suggests that the animal might have spent at least part of its time in water.

Molecular analysis has suggested that the closest land relatives of whales are members of the hippopotamus family, which are also artiodactyls.
643 2007-12-25 Women are more likely than men to die after heart surgery, and one reason may be the use of a common medical procedure: blood transfusions.

Researchers, writing in the December issue of The Journal of Women’s Health, reported on 150 women and 230 men who had heart surgery in 1997 and 1998.

A low hematocrit, or concentration of red blood cells, is an indication for transfusion, and women generally have lower hematocrits than men. Even after controlling for pre-operation hematocrit, age, body mass index and general health, the odds that a woman would receive blood were more than 21 times that of men.

Women were also more likely to be infected, have breathing problems, spend more time in intensive care and die in the hospital. The risk of a poor outcome was greatest in those receiving the most blood.

Background information in the article said it was well known that transfusion, especially of nonleukoreduced blood, the type in which white blood cells are not removed, alters immune system functioning, increasing the infection risk. The authors suggest that the path to increased mortality for women begins here.

Dr. Neil Blumberg, a co-author of the study and a professor of laboratory medicine at the University of Rochester, said patients should insist on leukoreduced blood if they needed transfusions.
644 2007-12-25 What ensued, according to Dr. Bausell, was a predictable pattern. Every couple of months Sarah would make a triumphant phone call and announce “with great enthusiasm and conviction” that a new food or supplement or capsule had practically cured her arthritis. Unfortunately, each miracle cure was regularly replaced by a different one, in a cycle her son-in-law ruefully breaks down for detailed analysis.

He makes it crystal clear exactly how the natural history of most painful conditions conspires with the immensely complex neurological and psychological phenomenon known as the placebo effect to make almost any treatment appear to work, so long as the recipient hopes and believes it will.

With equal dexterity Dr. Bausell introduces us to Dr. Smith, a fictional physician who becomes interested in acupuncture and convinced that it helps his patients. Enthusiastically organizing a series of research studies to confirm his conviction, Dr. Smith falls victim to an even more complicated set of scientific, psychological and emotional confounders than did Sarah, all of which invalidate his science and make his treatment appear far more effective than it actually is.

It is, of course, not only research into alternative therapies that is compromised by the pitfalls Dr. Bausell describes. Exactly the same subtle problems bedevil orthodox research, and they are often the source of the contradictory studies and here-today-gone-tomorrow treatment vogues that drive patients crazy.

Nor are patients who are using alternative treatments the only ones to become all wrapped up in the soothing folds of the placebo effect. The word “placebo” has picked up some pejorative overtones in the last few decades, with connotations of trickery and deceit, cold-eyed white-coated investigators doling out sugar pills instead of the real things. In fact, though, placebos have as venerable and honorable a history as just about any medication, and are better studied than most.

Dr. Bausell explores the science behind placebos in detail: the pain relief they afford is reliable and reproducible, and for some reason tends to linger in memory as even stronger than it really is.

But is that placebo-generated pain relief real or imaginary? Patients generally roll their eyes when the argument gets to this stage, for as Dr. Bausell points out, one perfectly reasonable response to the question would be, “Who cares?”

But it turns out that the issue is more than just scientific nitpicking. Placebos may work, but their effects are characteristically mild and temporary; in fact, they are more or less indistinguishable from the effects of most alternative treatments, as the dozens of studies summarized in the book’s last 100 pages make clear.

Still, Dr. Bausell knows perfectly well that people in pain don’t care what studies say. The only study they care about is the study of themselves. And who can blame them for that?

Thus he includes a final, ingenious section titled, “How to select a placebo therapy that works,” suggesting, among other things, that consumers bent on trying alternative medicine find an appealing therapy and an enthusiastic practitioner, then plunge in wholeheartedly to maximize that placebo effect and prolong its duration for as long as possible. Pure scientists might shudder at this advice, but Sarah’s son-in-law knows better.
645 2007-12-25 Its future may be uncertain, but if the Arecibo radio telescope in Puerto Rico is headed into mothballs it will go there with a fresh coat of paint.

Workers have finished a six-month refurbishing of the 900-ton platform that holds the telescope’s receiving and transmitting equipment. Officials at Cornell, which operates Arecibo, said that with the repainting, the 44-year-old instrument, the most sensitive radio telescope on the planet, should be good for 30 or 40 more years.

But that’s only if there is money to operate it. The National Science Foundation, which provides most of the budget, has reduced its financing by 25 percent, and is proposing cutting the remaining financing in half by 2011, or perhaps closing the telescope if alternative sources of money can’t be found.

Arecibo is used for several kinds of research, among them radar studies of solar system objects. The first observation after operations resumed this month was of an asteroid, 3200 Phaethon, as part of a project to study the effect of sunlight on the trajectories of some asteroids and comets.
646 2007-12-25 Photos of Christmas celebrations and decorations around New York City...
647 2007-12-25 MORE AID FROM ABROADMerrill Lynch has agreed to sell $5 billion in new stock to an investor from Singapore and a smaller stake to a domestic firm, joining other companies hurt by the mortgage crisis that are seeking financial help from foreign gov...
648 2007-12-25 Here's what the Edwards campaign wants for Christmas:     A blizzard in Iowa City on Jan. 3....
649 2007-12-26 Also in the Morning Buzz: graphic novels and comic books as literacy tools, Jon Bon Jovi as New Jersey’s elder statesman and a quiet Christmas on the Staten Island ferry....
650 2007-12-26 The candidate decides Iowa is worth pursuing, after all...
651 2007-12-26 Depending on how you do it, meal skipping can be helpful or risky....
652 2007-12-26 Will deals among the manufacturers of flat-panel displays lead to slower price declines of L.C.D. televisions? Don't count on it....
653 2007-12-26 With all this going for Oregon pinot gris, you would imagine the thirst for it would be insatiable. But — and you no doubt saw this coming — there are problems, two in particular.

First, the general public has little awareness of pinot gris as a wine. When forced to select a white wine, many people think of chardonnay, but not pinot gris. Most likely, they will also be able to come up with another white wine, pinot grigio, which points to the second problem.

Pinot gris is a grape, and a wine, with an identity crisis. Pinot gris and pinot grigio are the same grape, pinot gris being the French name and pinot grigio the Italian. But they are by no means the same wine.

Most Italian pinot grigio is a rather neutral thirst quencher, best drunk very cold, though good pinot grigios from Alto Adige and Friuli-Venezia Giulia can have more richness and character. Almost always, they are dry wines.

French pinot gris, primarily from Alsace, is an entirely different beast. These wines can be rich and almost oily in texture, and they are tremendously versatile. Late-harvest pinot gris, labeled vendange tardive, can be luscious sweet wines. When dry, they are wonderful wines with food, lively and complex.

The problem is, you rarely can tell when a pinot gris from Alsace will be dry. Very often Alsace producers leave some residual sugar in the wine without any indication on the label, which can be an unwelcome surprise to many consumers.

For Oregon producers, this means decisions. While by law the wine must be called pinot gris rather than pinot grigio, will it take after the French or the Italian style? If French, dry or not dry? And of course, since Oregon is not bound by Old World methods, another question comes up. Do you treat pinot gris using traditional pinot gris techniques or do you conceive of it as a version of New World chardonnay, aging it in new oak barrels to add flavors and tannins?

Mercifully, Oregon winemakers who were once more partial to oak have pulled back from treating pinot gris as a sort of junior chardonnay, which is a relief as these wines were usually overbearing and unattractive.

And we found few producers making Oregon pinot gris according to the Italian model, although one, the 2006 Erath, made our top 10 list. It was crisp with floral aromas, and very refreshing.

That leaves the Alsace school, which still gives winemakers a wide range of styles, from dry and textured to heavy and slightly sweet.

Bernie and Rebecca were fascinated by the differences among the wines, and Rebecca in particular was charmed. “I like the chameleon effect,” she said. But Florence wanted to see more consistency of style.

I didn’t mind the range of styles, but I wished producers in Oregon would set an example for their Alsatian counterparts by labeling the wines as dry or semi-sweet, off-dry or whatever. But that’s not likely to happen. American consumers tend to seek wines they think are dry, whether they actually are or not.

Our top wine, the ’06 Adelsheim, was clearly in the Alsace camp. It was richly textured and complex, yet dry and lively, an excellent combination. Though at $18 it was at the high end of the range for our top 10, we thought its quality made it the best value, too.

Our No. 2, the ’06 Capitello, was also Alsace-style, with flavors of apricots, nuts and flowers. Its slight sweetness was balanced by a lively acidity. In contrast to these two wines, our No. 3 wine, the 2006 from Willamette Valley Vineyards, was almost delicate, though having rested on its lees, the remnants of yeast after fermentation is completed, it had an attractively rich texture.

We found little evidence that these wines can age. Nineteen of the 25 wines we tasted were from the 2006 vintage, and only one older wine, the ’05 King Estate Signature Collection, made our list. The others — four from 2005 and one from 2004 — seemed tired or unbalanced.

Pinot gris from Alsace can age very well, but those wines tend to be more expensive. At these prices, look for the freshest and enjoy them right away.

These wines were not without problems. Most of them were below 14 percent alcohol, less than most California whites, but some still displayed alcohol heat, as they were unbalanced. Some also had the aroma of burning matches, an indication of too much sulfur dioxide, which is used as a preservative. Wines with these flaws did not make our list.

Despite these problems, you would be hard-pressed to find other American white wines with as much character in this price range. To me, that’s a winning equation.
654 2007-12-26 The housing market will probably exert significant influence on the health of the broader economy in the coming year. In recent months, growth has slowed but strong exports and rising wages have offset some of the weakness in housing and the financial markets. Consumer spending in the holiday season has been weaker than some retailers had hoped, though reports indicate it is still growing.

“It has been surprisingly resilient,” Robert J. Shiller, the Yale economist and a creator of the home price indexes, said about the economy. He added that it was difficult to determine what impact the weakness in housing would have on the economy going forward. “We are in uncharted territory,” he said. “This was the biggest housing boom we have ever seen.”

By Mr. Shiller’s calculation, the decline in home prices is greater than at any time since 1941 when the housing market was faltering at the start of World War II. Since their peak in July 2006, home prices in the 20 regions have dropped 6.6 percent. Many economists are predicting that home prices will fall 10 percent to 15 percent from their peak to their trough, though some pessimists believe the drop could be as large as 30 percent.

Prices are dropping fastest in the Midwest, which has been hit hard by job losses in manufacturing, and in California, Florida and the Southwest, where the housing boom was at its frothiest. Prices have fallen the most in Miami (12.4 percent from a year ago), Tampa (11.8 percent) and Detroit (11.2 percent). Prices are also falling in the nation’s two largest metropolitan areas — Los Angeles (8.8 percent) and New York (4.1 percent).

In Charlotte, Seattle and Portland, where the local economies are relatively healthier, prices were up from a year ago but lower than in September. “It suggests to me that the psychological factor is very important,” Mr. Shiller said. “Even in cities that are doing well people see what is going on nationwide and they don’t want to bid as much.”

The Case-Shiller indexes, which Mr. Shiller created with Karl E. Case, an economics professor at Wellesley College, track same-home sales over time in an effort to remove the influence of the changing composition of homes sold from month to month. The government has a similar index based on mortgages bought by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that covers more of the country but does not track sales where home loans are greater than $417,000.
655 2007-12-26 A Russian submarine in the Barents Sea successfully test-fired a new ballistic missile, hitting a target on the Kamchatka Peninsula on Russia’s Pacific coast minutes later, the Defense Ministry said. The RSM-54, or Sineva, is a hybrid ballistic missile that in its final stages becomes a modified cruise missile. In that guise, the missile can elude antimissile systems that rely on a ballistic trajectory for their calculations. The launching was the second such test-firing of the Sineva in less than a week. Officials also said a land-launched RS-24 missile with multiple warheads had been successfully test-fired from the Plesetsk range in northern Russia. Russia said it had also successfully launched a rocket carrying the last three satellites for a navigation system to rival the United States’ Global Positioning System. The military-run Glonass mapping system works over most of Russia and is expected to cover the globe by the end of 2009, once all its 24 navigational satellites are operating.
656 2007-12-26 Families can be so embarrassing. Imagine the agonies of an adolescent girl whose house has become infested with India-besotted hippies from all over the globe, whose sarcastic father stumbles around in an alcoholic haze and whose mother kneels at the feet of every swami she meets. And let us not forget grandma, who holds long conversations with her cow and once met a 1,000-year-old cobra with a ruby in its forehead and a mustache on its albino face.

Gods, gurus and eccentric relatives compete for primacy in Kirin Narayan’s enchanting memoir of her childhood in Bombay (present-day Mumbai). The title, which alludes to Gerald Durrell’s “My Family and Other Animals,” originated as an act of revenge. Ms. Narayan, fed up with the family penchant for ashrams and spiritual quests, turned to her mother and warned, “When I grow up I’m going to write a book called ‘My Family and Other Saints’ and put you in it.” And so she did.

The adolescent anger is gone, but the child’s sense of wonder remains. Ms. Narayan, now a professor of cultural anthropology at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, grew up in extraordinary circumstances, the daughter of a bohemian American mother and a deeply unhappy Indian father, an engineer by profession but an aesthete at heart. They called each other, in an affected American drawl, Maw and Paw. Their two boys and two girls, supplemented by an adopted Tibetan orphan, inherited their love of art, their devotion to Indian culture and a multitude of problems.

As the youngest child Ms. Narayan listened and observed. There was a lot to take in. Her eldest brother, Rahoul, visited the Gods’ Eye Shop in Bombay, where he bought eyes in all sizes to create small household totems that Ms. Narayan calls “Rahoul-beings.” As his spiritual hunger grew, he attached himself, and later the entire family, to Young Swamiji, a roly-poly guru with the features of a baby and a delighted response to all events that became a family refrain: “It’s goo-oo-ood.”

Actually, not everything was good in what Ms. Narayan calls the “Groovy Pad.” Although hospitable chaos made Ms. Narayan’s home a headquarters for traveling Europeans and Americans in search of mind-blowing experiences in the 1960s (“My address is passed all along the hash trail,” her mother once announced proudly), internal tensions were slowly undermining the family structure.
657 2007-12-26 Some experts say there is a vast need for more proton centers. But others contend that an arms race mentality has taken hold, as medical centers try to be first to take advantage of the prestige — and the profits — a proton site could provide.

“I’m fascinated and horrified by the way it’s developing,” said Anthony L. Zietman, a radiation oncologist at Harvard and Massachusetts General Hospital, which operates a proton center. “This is the dark side of American medicine.”

Once hospitals have made such a huge investment, experts like Dr. Zietman say, doctors will be under pressure to guide patients toward proton therapy when a less costly alternative might suffice.

Similar cost concerns were expressed in the past about other new technology like MRI scanners. While those have become accepted staples of medical practice, there is still concern about their overuse and the impact on medical spending.

Dr. Zietman said that while protons were vital in treating certain rare tumors, they were little better than the latest X-ray technology in dealing with prostate cancer, the common disease that many proton centers are counting on for business.

“You can scarcely tell the difference between them except in price,” he said. Medicare pays about $50,000 to treat prostate cancer with protons, almost twice as much as with X-rays.

Proponents, however, are adamant that proton centers provide better treatment.

“It all comes down to the physics,” said Dr. Jerry D. Slater, the head of radiation medicine at Loma Linda University Medical Center in Southern California. “Every X-ray beam I use puts most of the dose where I don’t want it.” By contrast, he said, proton beams put most of the dose in the tumor.

Loma Linda built the nation’s first hospital-based proton center in 1990 and has treated about 13,000 patients. Its success has inspired others.

Companies have sprung up to help finance, build and operate the proton centers. In some cases, local and state governments, seeking to attract medical tourists, have chipped in. Such financing is allowing proton centers to be built even by community hospitals or groups of physicians.

One of the biggest and most costly projects, with a bill exceeding $140 million, is being undertaken by Hampton University in Virginia, a historically black college that does not have a medical school.

“Here at Hampton we dream no small dreams,” said William R. Harvey, the president. He said a proton center would help African-Americans, who have higher rates of some cancers than whites. And he said a medical school was not needed — that doctors would be hired to run the outpatient facility.

Some of the planned centers will be very close together, raising the odds of overcapacity. Two proton centers are planned for Oklahoma City, for example, and two more in the western suburbs of Chicago.

The institutions building the centers say there is a need for many more of them. The existing centers, which collectively can treat only several thousand patients a year, are turning people away. And patients who are accepted often have to spend weeks in a city far from their homes.

Proponents say that more than 800,000 Americans — representing nearly two-thirds of new cancer cases — undergo radiation therapy each year. If only 250,000 of them could benefit from protons, they would fill more than 100 centers.

“If they built one across the street I wouldn’t worry about it,” said James D. Cox, chief of radiation oncology at the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, which opened a $125 million proton center last year.

X-rays, which are high-energy electromagnetic waves, pass through the body, depositing their energy all along the way, not just in the tumor. By contrast, protons — subatomic particles with a positive electrical charge — can be made to stop on the tumor and dump most of their payload there.

Tumors in or near the eye, for instance, can be eradicated by protons without destroying vision or irradiating the brain. Protons are also valuable for treating tumors in brains, necks and spines, and tumors in children, who are especially sensitive to the side effects of radiation.

When 10-year-old Brooke Bemont was about to undergo X-ray treatment for a brain tumor last summer, a doctor warned her mother, “Do not plan on your daughter ever going to Harvard.” The radiation would damage Brooke’s mental capacity, she explained.

So the family, from St. Charles, Ill., spent five weeks in Boston as Brooke was treated with protons at Mass. General. “If there was a potential to save even a little of her brain tissue, there was no question that we would do it,” said Christal Bemont, Brooke’s mother. She added that Brooke was now apparently cancer-free and doing fairly well.

Head, spine and childhood cancers are rare, though. Most people undergoing proton treatment are men with localized prostate cancer.

Proton therapy can help avoid the worst side-effects, like impotence, by exposing the bladder and rectum of a prostate patient to less radiation than X-rays. The stray radiation, though, from the newest form of X-rays, called intensity-modulated radiation therapy, is already low, diminishing any advantages from proton therapy.

“There are no solid clinical data that protons are better,” said Dr. Theodore S. Lawrence, the chairman of radiation oncology at the University of Michigan. “If you are going to spend a lot more money, you want to make sure the patient can detect an improvement, not just a theoretical improvement.”

An economic analysis by researchers at Fox Chase Cancer Center in Philadelphia found that proton treatment would be cost effective for only a small subset of prostate cancer patients.

Lack of data aside, men are flocking to proton treatment.

“I’m 67 years old, and the last thing I want to do is wear a diaper for the rest of my life,” said Pete Freeman of Spokane, Wash., who was undergoing treatment at Loma Linda.

Some men hear about proton therapy from the Brotherhood of the Balloon, a group of 3,000 men who have had the treatment. (A balloon is inserted into the rectum and filled with water to immobilize the prostate during treatment.)

The organization, which now gets some financial support from Loma Linda, was founded by Robert J. Marckini, a former Loma Linda patient who calls himself “Proton Bob.”

At Loma Linda, prostate cancer treatment requires about two months of daily sessions. The actual irradiation, which the patient does not feel, takes only about a minute. Most men with early prostate cancer have no symptoms from their disease and many say the treatment has few immediate side effects, other than fatigue and an urgency to urinate.

“We go have our treatments, and we go out and play golf,” said Harry Phillips, an accountant from Tacoma who was treated recently at Loma Linda.

Doctors are also learning how to use protons to treat lung and breast cancer. And over time, doctors say, costs should come down as the technology improves and it becomes more routine to build and operate proton centers. One company is trying to develop a $20 million proton system and has received orders from several hospitals.

On the horizon is therapy using beams of carbon ions, which are said to be even more powerful in killing tumors. Touro University says it will build a combined proton and carbon therapy center outside San Francisco, to open as early as 2011. The Mayo Clinic is also seriously considering one. Such centers will cost even more — as much as $300 million.
658 2007-12-26 THE Bush administration’s mortgage rescue plan will worsen, not alleviate, the problems in the housing market.

We are suffering from a home value crisis, not simply a credit crisis. If home prices were still rising, defaults would be low, investment returns would be high, borrowers would still be cashing out equity, and lenders would be showering credit on home buyers.

Falling prices reverse this dynamic. A recent study by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston found that most foreclosures result from falling home prices, not from the resetting of mortgage rates.

And if rates are frozen for some subprime mortgages, standards for most new loans will become increasingly strict. Lenders will have to factor in the added risk of having their contracts rewritten when borrowers default. Higher down payments, mortgage rates and required credit scores — along with lower loan-to-income ratios and perhaps the death of adjustable-rate loans altogether — will further push down home prices.

Whether or not their payment levels are frozen, borrowers with loans that are greater than the values of their homes will have few incentives to keep paying their mortgages or to maintain their properties. Why spend more on a home in which they have no equity and which they may lose to foreclosure anyway?

Having put nothing down or having extracted equity in previous refinances, most subprime borrowers will lose nothing financially from foreclosure. In some cases the low teaser rates allowed them to pay less than what they might otherwise have paid in rent. The real losses are borne by the lenders.
659 2007-12-26 ALLIANCE IN L.C.D.'SMatsushita, Hitachi and Canon announced Tuesday a tie-up in their liquid crystal display businesses.       The deal creates a third major force in the flat-panel industry in Japan, along with Sony's alliance with Samsung Electr...
660 2007-12-26 About 600 protesters march in Phnom Pehn, Cambodia, demanding speedier trials for leaders of Khmer Rouge, who are accused of killing at least 1.7 million people in late 1970s; photo (S)...
661 2007-12-26 Lodge, the restaurant in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, that has an adjoining General Store, has expanded its empire with Urban Rustic near McCarren Park. This large store displays its merchandise on hand-milled wood shelving, contributing to its countri...
662 2007-12-26 McCARTNEY--James E., on December 23 in his 89th year. Pre-deceased by his loving wife Dr. Joan McCartney. Devoted father of James J. and his wife Mary. Loving Grandfather to Christian, Joseph and Gabrielle. Cherished brother to George (deceased), ...
663 2007-12-27 Advocates of stricter campaign finance laws are raising alarms about the legal status of a labor-backed group that is blanketing Iowa with mail and advertisements supporting the Democratic primary campaign of former Senator John Edwards....
664 2007-12-27 I recently wrote about how, in one of my talks, I walk the audience down a garden path of hypothetical copyright-morality situations. The point is to illustrate how many shades of gray there are, in the law and in people's ethical compasses. And I...
665 2007-12-27 Today's Shifting Careers column covers creative ways small businesses are using blogs....
666 2007-12-27 No, I'm not talking about finance. I'm talking about doors. With levers increasingly used to open doors, it appears that the traditional hardware may soon be dead as a doorknob....
667 2007-12-27 URBANDALE, Iowa — Senator John McCain kicked off his first full day of a brief campaign swing through Iowa on Thursday, hoping his ascendancy in recent polls in New Hampshire would help propel him in Iowa, where he has struggled and spent little money.

The Arizona Republican was greeted here by an enthusiastic crowd of more than 200 people who packed an Elks Lodge at 10 a.m. Central time. Appearing energized, Mr. McCain raised his voice repeatedly and jabbed his index finger in the air when railing against overspending in Washington and highlighting his commitment to the current strategy in Iraq. Mostly, however, Mr. McCain’s appearance was dominated by talk about the assassination of Benazir Bhutto, the Pakistani opposition leader, which he seized upon to renew his argument that given the complexity of the threats faced by the United States, only he has the foreign policy credentials to step into the Oval Office and take the reins immediately.

The prospect of renewed volatility in Pakistan loomed over the campaign trail on Thursday, threatening to change the dynamic of a presidential race that has increasingly focused on leadership capabilities, particularly in the Democratic field. In nearby Des Moines, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois marked the start of a final week of campaigning before the Jan. 3 caucuses with a new stump speech in which he warned about the dangers of “playing the same Washington game with the same Washington players.” That was an apparent reference to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, who has questioned Mr. Obama’s qualifications on the foreign policy front. In his address, Mr. Obama also addressed the nature of the threats the nation faces, warning about a “politics of fear” in which politicians invoke “9/11 as a way to scare up votes.”

Mrs. Clinton, campaigning in Denison, Iowa, took her own veiled shots. "Some people think you get change by demanding it and some people think you get change by hoping for it," she said. "I think you get change by working for it every single day.”

Mr. McCain, in his campaign swing here, talked here about the unrest unfolding in Pakistan, the importance of the country in the war on the Taliban in Afghanistan and the fact Pakistan is a nuclear power. But he quickly pivoted to his readiness to tackle the situation, saying that he has “been to Waziristan,” a tribal area in Pakistan that has become a haven for Taliban, and knows President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan well.
668 2007-12-27 Oil prices surged and American stock markets took a tumble on Thursday as investors grappled with a slew of weak economic data and concerns about economic fallout from the assassination of the Pakistani political leader, Benazir Bhutto.

The Dow Jones industrials dropped in late trading and ended the day down 192.08 points, or 1.42 percent, after a steep drop at the opening bell, minutes after reports of violence in Pakistan began to trickle out. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index lost 1.43 percent, or 21.39 points to 1,476.27 points, and the Nasdaq index dropped 1.75 percent to 2,676.79.

Oil prices jumped more than $1, to $97.36 a barrel, the highest price in more than a month, after the Energy Department said domestic petroleum supplies dropped last week. Most of the increase came after a disappointing inventory report, and some analysts said the violence in Pakistan had little effect on the market. Oil prices ended the day at $96.75, up 67 cents.

“We’ve always understood how volatile and dangerous that place is,” said Larry Goldstein, a director at the Energy Policy Research Foundation. “This confirms what we already know.”

Pakistan does not produce or export petroleum, though Middle East politics often play an influential role in the oil market.
669 2007-12-27 SHANGHAI — Responding to growing concerns about the quality and safety of its seafood, China said this week that it would introduce production standards, including several measures intended to improve product safety and guard against the use of illegal veterinary drugs.

The Ministry of Agriculture said the standards would cover more than 100 categories, everything from breeding fish and seafood products to disease prevention and drug controls, according to a speech released Thursday by the ministry.

The move, which was first announced on Monday, is the latest food safety initiative to come out of Beijing, which is pushing aggressively to ensure Chinese consumers and importers of Chinese food that the country’s products are safe and healthy.

Earlier this year, China was hit by a wave of product safety recalls involving everything from tainted toothpaste and contaminated pet food ingredients to toys coated with toxic lead paint.

China’s seafood industry was also damaged in June after the United States blocked the import of several different types of fish, including eel and tilapia, after the Food and Drug Administration said that a growing amount of Chinese seafood was found to contain residues of illegal veterinary drugs.
670 2007-12-27 Mexico reported a smaller-than-expected trade deficit for November after oil exports rose sharply. The deficit narrowed to $760 million from $1.65 billion in October, the finance ministry said. Economists expected a gap of $1.39 billion. Mexican oil export revenue rose 69 percent last month to $4.89 billion, the ministry said. Nonoil exports grew 8.7 percent to $19.5 billion. Total imports rose 12 percent to $25.18 billion. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

I.B.M. licensed technology used in making computer chips for mobile devices and consumer electronics to a chip company in China, the companies said. The Chinese company, Semiconductor Manufacturing International of Shanghai, bought the license. The buyers will use it to expand offerings for mobile devices. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

Sentiment among Japan’s small and midsize companies, especially in housing, fell to its lowest level in nearly three years in December, a government-affiliated lender said. An index that measures the percentage of companies predicting sales improvement in three months minus those predicting decline fell to 6.4 in December from 8.9 in November, the lender, the Japan Finance Corporation for Small and Medium Enterprise, said. (AP)

China’s government approved a plan to build an improved wireless broadband cellphone network to elevate the country’s competitiveness with homegrown technology. The plan is “a major thrust in the future of China’s information technology,” China’s State Council said, but it did not provide details. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

Air Astana, a venture between the Kazakh government and BAE Systems, agreed to buy nine Airbus and Boeing jetliners to help meet surging travel demand in Kazakhstan. The six Airbus A320s and three Boeing 787-8s have a combined catalog price of $950 million, Air Astana said in an e-mailed statement. Deliveries will start in 2012, it said. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

Canal Plus, Vivendi’s pay-television unit, said it had agreed to buy Occade Sport, an organizer of sporting events. Canal Plus will acquire all of Occade Sport’s shares from Gones & Sports by the end of February, Vivendi said. Financial details were not disclosed. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)
671 2007-12-27 Sentiment among Japan’s small and midsize companies, especially in housing, fell to its lowest level in nearly three years in December, a government-affiliated lender said. An index that measures the percentage of companies predicting sales improvement in three months minus those predicting decline fell to 6.4 in December from 8.9 in November, the lender, the Japan Finance Corporation for Small and Medium Enterprise, said.
672 2007-12-27 Pfizer said it would fight a Nigerian court order that could jail three employees who had failed to appear at a trial over whether the company had improperly tested an experimental drug on Nigerian children. The employees did not receive summonses to appear at last month’s trial, Pfizer said. The state of Kano is demanding $2.75 billion from Pfizer, which it says used an untested meningitis drug in a 1996 outbreak. Pfizer has said its use of the drug obeyed government rules and saved lives.
673 2007-12-27 Mexico reported a smaller-than-expected trade deficit for November after oil exports rose sharply. The deficit narrowed to $760 million from $1.65 billion in October, the finance ministry said. Economists expected a gap of $1.39 billion. Mexican oil export revenue rose 69 percent last month to $4.89 billion, the ministry said. Nonoil exports grew 8.7 percent to $19.5 billion. Total imports rose 12 percent to $25.18 billion.
674 2007-12-27 China’s government approved a plan to build an improved wireless broadband cellphone network to elevate the country’s competitiveness with homegrown technology. The plan is “a major thrust in the future of China’s information technology,” China’s State Council said, but it did not provide details.
675 2007-12-27 Air Astana, a venture between the Kazakh government and BAE Systems, agreed to buy nine Airbus and Boeing jetliners to help meet surging travel demand in Kazakhstan. The six Airbus A320s and three Boeing 787-8s have a combined catalog price of $950 million, Air Astana said in an e-mailed statement. Deliveries will start in 2012, it said.
676 2007-12-27 So far, weakness in housing and the credit markets has been offset by strong exports and rising wages. Consumer spending in the holiday season has been weaker than some retailers had hoped, though reports indicate that it is still growing.

“It has been surprisingly resilient,” Robert J. Shiller, the Yale economist and a creator of the home price indexes, said about the economy. He added that it was difficult to determine what impact the weakness in housing would have on the economy going forward.

“We are in uncharted territory,” he said. “This was the biggest housing boom we have ever seen.”

By Mr. Shiller’s calculation, the decline in home prices is greater than at any time since 1941, when the housing market was faltering at the start of the American entry in World War II. Since their peak in July 2006, home prices in the 20 regions have dropped 6.6 percent. Many economists are predicting that home prices will fall 10 percent to 15 percent from their peak to their trough, though some pessimists say the drop could be as much as 30 percent.

Prices are dropping fastest in the Midwest, which has been hit hard by job losses in manufacturing, and in California, Florida and the Southwest, where the housing boom was most pronounced.

Prices have fallen the most in Miami (down 12.4 percent from a year ago), Tampa (11.8 percent) and Detroit (11.2 percent). Prices are also falling in the nation’s two largest metropolitan areas — Los Angeles (8.8 percent) and New York (4.1 percent).

In Charlotte, Seattle and Portland, where the local economies are somewhat healthier, prices were up from a year ago but lower than in September. Dallas and Atlanta, where prices were strong earlier in the year, experienced declines over the previous month and the year.

“It suggests to me that the psychological factor is very important,” Mr. Shiller said. “Even in cities that are doing well, people see what is going on nationwide and they don’t want to bid as much.”

A real estate broker at Brio Realty in Bellevue, Wash., Ardell DellaLoggia, said home buyers whom she represents had become more cautious about how much they were willing to offer for homes because they were unsure about the future. Stricter lending standards have also made it harder for buyers to get jumbo loans larger than $417,000, and lenders are again requiring sizable down payments for all kinds of loans.

“Paying as low as you can is your insurance to whatever may happen in the next couple of years,” Ms. DellaLoggia said, adding that she did not have to cut the prices on any of the homes she had sold recently. “But it took 90 days to get an offer instead of 30.”

Pending sales of single-family homes and condos in the Seattle area fell by a third in September from the same month last year, according to data from the Northwest Multiple Listing Service. The number of homes on the market has also been rising fast.

Edward E. Leamer, an economist at the University of California, Los Angeles, said the declines in Seattle and elsewhere should not be surprising because they were also caught up in the housing boom that was fueled by low interest rates and lax lending standards.

“Finance is not local,” he said as a counterpoint to the maxim that real estate is local. “The availability of mortgages at extremely easy terms affected every home in the United States.”

The Case-Shiller indexes, which Mr. Shiller created with Karl E. Case, an economics professor at Wellesley College, track same-home sales over time in an effort to remove the influence of the changing composition of properties sold from month to month. The government has a similar index based on mortgages bought by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that covers more of the country but does not track sales where jumbo loans are used.

Stocks fell modestly after the latest home price data was released Wednesday morning, but the market closed essentially flat for the day.
677 2007-12-27 Kyle Okposo, who announced Dec. 19 that he was leaving the University of Minnesota to join the Islanders organization, had a goal and an assist Wednesday to help the United States to a 5-1 victory over Kazakhstan at the world junior hockey championship in Liberec, Czech Republic.Okposo, the seventh overall pick in the 2006 N.H.L. draft, has begun talks with the Islanders.
678 2007-12-27 Policemen, soldiers and villagers searched the icy Bheri River for more than 50 people believed missing after a steel footbridge collapsed on Tuesday. At least 16 people were confirmed dead.
679 2007-12-27 LIMA (Agence France-Presse) — Peru’s former president, Alberto Fujimori, on trial over army massacres during his term, said Wednesday that he had set only general policy and never ordered a “dirty war” against subversives.

In testimony, Mr. Fujimori, 69, insisted that “at no time did I order assassinations or disappearances” during his presidency from 1990 to 2000.

“The president always fixes the general approach and guidelines,” Mr. Fujimori said, under questioning by his lawyer César Nakazaki. “He does not set out strategy or say how it should be carried out. This is the military sphere.”

Mr. Fujimori was extradited to Peru from Chile in September to stand trial on charges of human rights abuses and murder.

He is accused of knowing of or of giving orders to an army death squad known as the Colina Group that killed 25 people in two massacres, in 1991 and 1992.
680 2007-12-27 Apple now derives 20 percent of its revenue from its physical stores. And the number is growing. In the fourth quarter in 2007, which ended Sept. 30, Apple reported that the retail stores accounted for $1.25 billion of Apple’s $6.2 billion in revenues, a 42 percent increase over the fourth quarter in 2006.

Apple stores generate sales at the rate of about $4,000 per square foot a year, according to a report last year by Sanford C. Bernstein analysts.

As other electronics makers like Dell, Nokia and Sony still struggle to find the right retail formula, Apple seems to have perfected it.

Not only has the company made many of its stores feel like gathering places, but the bright lights and equally bright acoustics create a buzz that makes customers feel more like they are at an event than a retail store.

The close attention paid to detail in the stores’ designs, such as the maple veneer tables used for product displays, gives the impression that Steven P. Jobs himself, the company’s co-founder and chief executive, signed off on every square aesthetic inch of every store.

“Apple’s retail offering is very compelling,” said Andrew Neff, senior managing director at Bear Stearns, “but the other key is the product. The retail concept ties in very much to the product.”

But the secret formula may be the personal attention paid to customers by sales staff. Relentlessly smiling employees roam the floor, carrying hand-held terminals for instant credit-card swiping. Technicians work behind the so-called genius bar, ministering to customers’ ailing iPods, MacBooks and iPhones. Others, designated “personal trainers,” give one-on-one instruction and lead workshops.

Personal shoppers are available by appointment, and last month the company took the concept of personalized service to a new level, with concierge teams stationed throughout each store.

“They’ve become the Nordstrom of technology,” said Michael Gartenberg, vice president and research director at Jupiter Research, referring to the department store that is known for its service.

Ron Johnson, Apple’s senior vice president for retail, said he believed the high level of service played a large role in the success of the stores.

“The idea is that while people love to come to retail stores, and they do it all the time, what they really appreciate the most is that undivided personal attention,” Mr. Johnson said. The result is far fewer qualms among consumers about paying premium prices: $30 for an iPhone case, $200 for an iPod Nano or $1,200 for a computer.

This month, Apple opened its third Manhattan store, in a three-story, 10,500-square-foot renovated building in the meatpacking district on West 14th Street. With one entire floor dedicated to individualized services, along with small seminar series, Mr. Johnson’s goal is to make the 14th Street store “the most personal store ever created.”

Mr. Gartenberg said people often first go to an Apple store out of curiosity. “Apparently a lot of them like what they’re seeing in the stores, they like the experience and they go back to buy the products,” he said.

The stores’ architecture also makes consumers feel good about spending money there.

In nearly a dozen high-profile urban centers — including New York, San Francisco, London and Glasgow — the signature feature is a glass staircase. Some of the staircases go straight up and others ascend in a spiral skein that appears to be held in place by nothing more than Apple hype.

A customer entered the 14th Street store last week with his two whippets. Their reaction to the impressive stairs was more fear than awe. When the dogs refused to climb the steps, their owner scooped both of them into his arms and carried them up.

Apple stores encourage a lot of purchasing, to be sure. But they also encourage lingering, with dozens of fully functioning computers, iPods and iPhones for visitors to try — for hours on end.

The policy has given some stores, especially those in urban neighborhoods, the feel of a community center. Two years ago, Isobella Jade was down on her luck, living on a friend’s couch and struggling to make it as a fashion model when she had the idea of writing a book about her experience as a short woman trying to break into the modeling business.

Unable to afford a computer, Ms. Jade, 25, began cadging time on a laptop at the Apple store in the SoHo section of Manhattan. Ms. Jade spent hours at a stretch standing in a discreet corner of the store, typing. Within a few months, she had written nearly 300 pages.

Not only did store employees not mind, but at closing time they often made certain to shut Ms. Jade’s computer down last, to give her a little extra time. A few months later, the store invited her to give an in-store reading from her manuscript.

“Everyone is free to use the Internet and do anything they want — within reason,” said Paul Fradin, the general manager of the SoHo and 14th Street stores. Visitors spotted surfing pornographic Web sites are quietly asked to leave, and are escorted out.

Visitors can bring almost anything they like. Ms. Jade showed up nearly every day with her full set of notes, and enough food to see her through a few hours of writing.

Meanwhile, the Sony flagship store on West 56th Street, a few blocks from Apple’s Fifth Avenue store, has the hush of a mausoleum. And being inside the long and narrow blue-toned Nokia store on 57th Street feels a bit like being inside an aquarium.

The high-end Samsung Experience showroom, its nuevo tech music on full blast one recent morning, was nearly empty. And although that store professes to encourage hands-on exploration of its products, the showroom has a clinical, forbidding feel. (Nothing is actually sold there; it’s just for display.)

“Whenever we ask consumers to cite a great retail experience, the Apple store is the first store they mention,” said Jane Buckingham, president of the Intelligence Group, a market research firm in Los Angeles. “Basically, everything about it works. The people who work there are cool and knowledgeable. They have the answers you want, and can sell you what you need. Customers appreciate that. Even the fact that they’ll e-mail you a receipt makes you feel like you’re in a store just a little bit further ahead of everyone else.”

This could be part of the reason that Jack Graham, 16, visiting for the holidays from Worcester, England, spent at least an hour each day of his visit at one of the three New York Apple stores, his parents sitting by patiently, happy to watch the crowd.

“These stores are going to become iconic places that people go to see when they come to New York,” said Mr. Gartenberg, the analyst. “Rockefeller Center, Radio City Music Hall and Apple’s great glass cube on Fifth Avenue.”

As for Ms. Jade, whose modeling career is advancing, she has yet to buy a computer from the Apple store. But she is still welcome to check her e-mail — and stay as long as she likes.
681 2007-12-27 WASHINGTON — President Bush signed legislation on Wednesday lifting a ban that for nearly a decade has prevented city officials here from using local tax money for needle exchange programs.

Officials of the District of Columbia Health Department said that with the ban lifted, they would allocate $1 million for such programs in 2008.

Since 1999, the nation’s capital, which reports having the highest rate of AIDS infection of any major city in the country, has been the only city barred by federal law from using municipal money for needle exchanges. A recent report by the city showed that intravenous drug users’ sharing of needles was second only to unprotected sex as a leading cause of H.I.V. transmission.

Congress controls local government here, and for nine years members of the House, expressing concerns about worsening drug abuse, had inserted into the bill approving the city’s budget a provision to prohibit financing needle exchange programs. But with Republicans’ loss of Congressional control to Democrats, this year’s bill, signed by Mr. Bush on Wednesday, reversed the ban.

“For too long, Congress has unfairly imposed on the citizens of D.C. by trying out their social experiments there,” said Representative José E. Serrano, the New York Democrat who heads the House Appropriations subcommittee that handles the city’s budget. “The ban on needle exchanges was one of the most egregious of these impositions, especially because the consensus is clear that these programs save lives.”
682 2007-12-27 Sallie Mae, the troubled student loan giant, said Wednesday that it would raise $2.5 billion by selling stock in the public market and would use most of the money to pay off a disastrous bet that the company made on its common stock price.

Sallie Mae, whose formal name is the SLM Corporation, did not give details of the pricing or terms of the securities. Nor did it say whether the additional $500 million in capital would be enough to assure that its bond ratings would not be cut.

At the same time, Sallie Mae disclosed that it had already posted the cash needed to pay off the stock price wager. The fact that Citibank had required that move had not been disclosed, and was another sign of the problems the company faces at a time when regulation of the student loan business is increasing and Sallie Mae is finding it more difficult to sell securities backed by student loans.

Last week, Sallie Mae disclosed that Citibank had given it until Feb. 22 to satisfy the forward purchase contract for stock. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Wednesday, it disclosed that it had put up cash to satisfy the promise.

The announcement of the planned offerings of common stock and mandatory convertible preferred stock came after the stock market closed. In regular trading, SLM rose 7 cents, to $22.13. In after-hours trading, the shares traded as low as $20.44.
683 2007-12-27 China, which makes one-third of the world’s steel, said Wednesday that it would introduce export tariffs on some steel products and increase rates on other items to rein in a record trade surplus and cut energy consumption and pollution.

A new 10 to 15 percent tariff on stainless-steel sheets will be imposed on Tuesday, along with a new 15 percent levy on steel tubes and a 15 percent tariff on cold-rolled sheets, the ministry of finance said in a statement. Existing tariffs on the export of other products, including carbon steel billets and pig iron, will be raised.

China, seeking to curb its trade surplus, cut tax rebates and raised duties on some steel shipments this year. Last month, the European Union threatened to impose tariffs to shield its producers, including ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steel maker.

“We had expected the government to keep tax policies unchanged next year as exports have been falling,” said Ma Haitian, an analyst with the Beijing Antaike Information Development Company, referring to steel shipments. “Still, the government raised the tax barriers as it’s apparently under pressure from the E.U. and the U.S.”

The tax changes on steel exports were part of wider set of revisions released by the government Wednesday. The revisions also covered taxes on overseas sales of metals and agricultural products like cotton. The government announced its intent to raise or introduce tariff rates on steel products on Dec. 21.

The tariff on the export of steel wires and rods will be raised to 15 percent, from 10 percent, and duties on semifinished steel products and pig iron will be increased to 25 percent, from 15 percent, the ministry’s statement said.

Steel-product exports from China rose 55 percent for the first 11 months of this year, to 57.86 million tons. Still, shipments last month fell 11 percent compared with November 2006, to 4.1 million metric tons, according to customs data. That was the lowest level in 14 months.
684 2007-12-27 “I wasn’t expecting to have any kind of big year,” Moreno said in a recent telephone interview. “I guess you could say I was surprised by it.”

His teammates were not surprised. Center Fernando Velasco watched Moreno run a sweep for the scout team in 2006 and saw him hurdle a defensive back and race for a touchdown.

“I said right then this guy is going to be special, and he hasn’t proved me wrong yet,” Velasco said.

When Moreno carried the ball in a real game for the first time — a 35-14 victory against Oklahoma State on Sept. 1 — there was a murmur throughout Sanford Stadium as he charged into the line. The next time he ran with the ball, this time after catching a pass, there was a bigger buzz from the crowd. By the third quarter, the buzz had become captivation.

The stadium’s public-address announcer went from calling him Knowshon Moreno to simply Knowshon.

He had 20 carries for 70 yards and caught 2 passes for another 51 yards, a performance that helped him grab the position from two more experienced players.

Moreno, who stands 5 feet 11 inches and weighs 207 pounds, is a handful because of the yards he generates after the first hit. Even while running behind a rebuilt offensive line, he managed 188 yards against Florida, 101 against Auburn, 196 against Troy and 124 against Kentucky.

Some running backs glide; Moreno charges. He has an angry, jackhammer style of running.

Moreno’s combativeness riles opponents. After he is tackled, he tries to pop up before the tacklers do. Once on his feet, he glares at the defense.

“They get mad at him, and I have had to tell the defenders to back off a little bit and say to them: ‘He’s all right. He doesn’t mean anything by it,’” Velasco said. “Knowshon is high energy and an awesome competitor.”

Sometimes he is too much of a competitor. In a 16-12 loss to South Carolina in September, Moreno was alone with a defender in the secondary. But instead of trying to escape with a move, he was stopped when he put his head down and tried to run over the tackler.

“It showed some inexperience,” Ball said. “He could have made that guy miss and scored a touchdown in that game, which is what we needed. He and I sat down and watched that, and it was a point of emphasis we had to make with him. He’s a fighter, so you want that. He has some different tools and needs to know which ones to use at the appropriate time.”

Moreno, who rushed for 6,268 yards and 128 touchdowns in high school at Middletown South in New Jersey, was redshirted in 2006 because the Bulldogs already had three older tailbacks ahead of him. He was also unpolished in pass-protection schemes, according to Georgia’s head coach, Mark Richt.

“I wasn’t mad; that was my role with the team,” Moreno said. “I used that time to get better on pass blocking.”

Moreno is typically reluctant to go beyond one-sentence answers to questions. He was expected at the team’s Sugar Bowl news conference in mid-December, but he did not show up. Reporters who regularly cover the team shrugged and said they were not surprised.

Moreno may not relish talking about himself publicly, but others speak for him, including the defenders he once challenged.

“We told everyone last year we had a great back coming,” Howard said. “He just took practice so seriously that you could see what he had.”
685 2007-12-27 TEHRAN — A prominent human rights activist who has been jailed since October was transferred to a hospital Wednesday, according to his wife and the news agency ISNA.

The man, Emadedin Baghi, a reformist journalist who is in jail for the second time, was taken from the notorious Evin prison to a hospital in Tehran. His wife, Fatimeh Kamali, said in a telephone interview Wednesday that her husband had called her in the morning from prison and sounded as if he was barely conscious.

She said he could barely speak and kept repeating himself, but she was able to understand that he said he would have died had a prison official not recently found him. He also asked for his lawyer.

ISNA quoted the general director of prisons in Tehran Province, Sohrab Soleimani, as saying that Mr. Baghi was taken to a hospital but was expected to return to prison Wednesday evening. He did not provide any further information.

Mr. Baghi’s lawyer, Saleh Nikbakht, had traveled to the prison to meet with him in the morning before the phone call but was turned away by prison officials who said Mr. Baghi was being interrogated, Ms. Kamali said.
686 2007-12-27 Dogs, once bred for herding and hunting, are now more valued for their ability to stay quiet, fit in a pocketbook and be emotionally-available fuzzy ersatz children.

“This morning alone I had three people writing me to say, ‘How do I become a trainer?’” said Martin Deeley, the executive director of the International Association of Canine Professionals. “It’s because need has grown. People are treating their dogs like children and want them to be well-behaved like any member of the family would, but you can’t teach a dog like you teach a child, and that leads people to trainers.”

Rookie trainers are lured by the perks, like spending time outside in the company of puppies, as well as flexible work hours for decent pay without having to spend years being educated. But they soon learn that the occupation entails odd hours, emotional entanglements with distraught families and, occasionally, decisions that could end a troubled dog’s life.

These concerns have not slowed the growth in the ranks of people wanting to become dog trainers, especially as many in the industry have moved away from rolled-up newspapers, choke collars and other harsh training methods that were once the norm.

In 2006, there were 43,000 animal trainers, at least 50 percent of whom work with dogs, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, a number that has almost tripled since 2000.

Henry Kasper, an employment projection analyst at the bureau, estimated that the animal training industry is growing at twice the pace of average industry.

Brian Kurth, the founder of VocationVacations, a company that sets up apprenticeships for those interested in a potential career change, said that dog training is one of the top professions people want to try, right up there with sportscasting and winemaking.

Surprisingly, plenty of new trainers have left white-collar jobs to teach dogs and their masters, those in the industry said.

Two years ago, David Ryan, then 42, shadowed a dog trainer during a VocationVacations apprenticeship. At the time, Mr. Ryan said, he made roughly $800,000 a year as an international banker with HSBC.

But Mr. Ryan said he made up his mind to train puppies on that first day of instruction.

“It immediately felt right,” he said. “I spent the rest of the days really looking at whether this could be made into a business for me. Would the numbers work? It certainly looked encouraging because there’s been this huge explosion of expenditure in the pet-care industry.”

Some colleagues find such career changes hard to grasp. After years of planning, Noelle Fischer of Huntington, on Long Island, left her $80,000-a-year job as a bankruptcy lawyer to cajole dogs to behave. When she announced a year ago that she was leaving, said Ms. Fischer, 35, “everyone thought it was a joke.”

Few entering the profession realize that the most onerous part is no different than most jobs: dealing with other people.

“The classic thing that happens? Someone goes into dog training because they really love dogs and don’t really get on with people, but in reality, the job is 90 percent people training,” said Dr. Ian Dunbar, a veterinarian and the founder of the Association of Pet Dog Trainers, a networking group of 6,000 trainers.

More than a quarter of the association’s members have been training for fewer than five years.

Renee Payne, who has been a dog trainer in Brooklyn for a decade, is quick to point out that the job is not all cuddling and doling out Liv-A-Snaps.

Ms. Payne fields client concerns at all hours: Should we get a shock collar for our pup who keeps sniffing our cat? Could cutting our dog’s hair mess with its chi?

After frustrating experiences with hardheaded dog owners, some of Ms. Payne’s interns decamp, never to return.

“Sometimes trainers take it personally when they tell the owner over and over what to do and they don’t do it,” she said.

Not so long ago, few people had heard of behavior modification for dogs, let alone considered working in the industry.

“Twenty years ago when you told someone you were a dog trainer they’d go ‘huh?’” said Brian Kilcommons, a dog behavior expert in Auburn, N.H. who, with his partner Sarah Wilson, has written several books on dog training.

Mr. Kilcommons said that today 10 times as many people call him as five years ago to ask how to enter the field.

Television shows about dog training have also raised the profile of the industry. In the last few months, six producers have contacted Dr. Dunbar of the Association of Pet Dog Trainers to consult with him about dog-trainer series that are in the pipeline, he said.

Many new shows are a response to the success of Mr. Millan, arguably the first dog trainer to become a household name (with all due respect to Charlie Brown). Mr. Millan has a seemingly magic touch, taming one difficult dog after the other.

“When you do it well, it seems effortless,” Mr. Kilcommons said. “People think: ‘Oh, that’s easy. I could do that.’”

DEMAND for trainers has also grown now as polishing a dog’s manners has become part of a routine for a new puppy owner — like a new mother getting a doula.

“It’s become the automatic thing to do,” Ms. Payne said. “Like going to yoga.”

There are many schools of thought on how to treat common but sometimes extreme problems such as chewing, anxiety and aggression. Such debates are not trivial to owners or concerned trainers.

“This is a profession where you are making life and death calls,” Mr. Kilcommons said. “The dog who isn’t euthanized and needs to be could hurt a person. On the other hand, a dog that has solvable problems but proves beyond the skill set of a trainer might end up in a shelter.”

The industry has no officially regulated business practices, so many veteran trainers, who did prolonged apprenticeships under established dog trainers, worry about the influx of less-educated newcomers.

SO how can a dog owner gauge a potential trainer’s skill set?

Finding a trainer that has passed the exam offered by the Certification Council for Professional Dog Trainers is one way. Trainers need to have at least 300 hours of training before taking the test, which covers animal husbandry and applied behavior analysis, said Parvene Farhoody, the president of the council, which has certified 1,500 trainers since 2001. There are many ways for trainers to enter the field, from correspondence courses to bachelor’s or master’s degrees in zoology or animal behavior.

Ms. Fischer, who now makes up to $140 an hour, took the path most esteemed by old-timers: she spent five years apprenticing every weekend with seasoned professionals before hanging her shingle.

Mr. Ryan, the former HBSC banker, matriculated in a six-month program at the Tom Rose School for Professional Dog Trainers in High Ridge, Mo., and then attended seminars on training methods. He now charges $90 an hour in Rye, N.H.

Doug Rountree of Louisville, Ky., chose a much faster route. Two years ago, Mr. Rountree, then an information-technology manager, bought into Bark Busters, an international franchise with 245 trainers nationwide. The company gave him three weeks of intensive training, about 40 hours of homework, suggested he give a few free lessons, and then allowed him to open shop.

Bark Busters boasts trainers who have given up careers as Fortune 500 executives, human genome scientists and stockbrokers to join their ranks. But their method doesn’t involve the animal-behavior modification theories favored by many trainers. Instead, it is based on understanding what they call the “canine psyche” and communicating with a dog as a pack leader would.

“People can be too cerebral about it all,” said Liam Crowe, the president of Bark Busters in the United States. “Dogs are one of the most simple creatures on the earth.”

Mr. Finley, the photographer, didn’t think so, when he spent time as a trainer at VocationVacations in 2005.

“I was sort of naïve and idealistic,” he said. “You need to have a tremendous amount of patience, which I really don’t have.”

He is now considering a career in tire repair.
687 2007-12-27 The mantle of enemy passed with the cold war’s end. It went to purveyors of another totalitarianism, haters of modernity, atavistic murderers of unbelievers (and their own), fanatics for whom free will and sexuality are so intolerable that a savage God must be raised up to suppress them in jihad’s name.

The relation of these jihadists to Islam is as twisted as Stalin’s to Marx, or the Gulag’s to the liberation of the masses, but the draw of absolutism has not abated.

The problem with liberal societies is that they are as dull as they are successful. The mortgage, the tax man, the lobbyist and the vote leave a thirsting. Revolutions are made for freedom, but its exercise is mundane, which can be intolerable. Only the terrorized — from East Berlin or Baghdad — understand that “Give me normality” is a rousing cry. For a Pole, the absence of drama feels like paradise.

But history lurches. Its strangeness prompts some to believe that there must be a hidden hand. Conspiracy theory is the refuge of the feeble-minded; that has not stopped it becoming rampant in an age where every voice has a digital loudspeaker.

Americans and Canadians training young Afghan recruits near Soviet junkyards in a faraway land must be the work of someone, a plot of international speculators, or perhaps Mossad agents who, for the grotesquely conspiracy-minded, planned 9/11.

Most of life, however, is unplanned. It’s banal, capricious, a frustration to any puppet master — which does not make it any less precious, of course, or fragile.

At a Kandahar airport, I overheard two U.S. soldiers:

“I don’t wanna die,” the first said.

They parted. Their fear stayed with me. I’ve been thinking of them and other U.S. servicemen and servicewomen this holiday season. What we all want is pretty simple. Home about sums it up. The place they have to take you in.

I boarded a U.S. military flight to Kabul and some special-forces guys — no uniforms, sniper-scopes on their assault rifles — got on board, too. One sat next to me. I asked: “What’s your line of business?”

“Oh, doing some private work for the government, but it would be too long a story to tell you.”

I nodded. He was from Perth, Australia: a long story, indeed. Perhaps he’d been out in the badlands on the Afghan-Pakistani border battling the Taliban, or down in the southwest where the Iranian border area is said to be full of guys without uniforms.

Afghanistan, like Poland, is a small country flanked by larger ones. Unlike Poland, it has not found the means to contain those larger countries’ interests. The “Great Game” goes on.

Its continuation may suggest that nothing changes or only changes to stay the same. But that would be a pessimistic view. On a train the other day, gliding through the mists of Belgium along pale lines of poplar trees, I thought of the slaughter at Passchendaele 90 years ago. European peace is a miracle; we forget too many miracles.

More recently, there was the Passchendaele-like slaughter of the Iran-Iraq war, with its one million dead for nothing, its cold-war fog and its cold-war intrigues. Openness is advancing, even in the Middle East. This is the age of empowerment. The back-to-the-Caliphate boys cannot resist it. Their own junkyard awaits them.
688 2007-12-27 FAVORED BRANDS AFFECTED  Disappointing results for holiday retailers have begun to be seen even in those brands that for years have inspired the undying devotion of shoppers. Chains like Coach, Target, Starbucks and Abercrombie & Fitch are settlin...
689 2007-12-27 Jeremy Cole, a young London-based New Zealander who made his name a few years ago with the Aloe series of chandeliers and lamps, is bringing out the line in gold.      His designs for the Aloe pieces were inspired by the tropical agave plant and h...
690 2007-12-27 Air Astana, a venture between the Kazakh government and BAE Systems, agreed to buy nine Airbus and Boeing jetliners to help meet surging travel demand in Kazakhstan. The six Airbus A320s and three Boeing 787-8s have a combined catalog price of $95...
691 2007-12-28 The ad wars, and the words, are heating up among the G.O.P. rivals who are dueling on the trail....
692 2007-12-28 Google's share of the search market keeps growing, and no one seems willing to bet that will change soon....
693 2007-12-28 The Republican candidate finds a way to fire back at a rival....
694 2007-12-28 Republican candidates broadcast new commercials, with a Romney ad directly criticizing McCain's record as their race tightens....
695 2007-12-28 For the Yankees fan who has everything — most important, a sense of humor — there is still time for a late gift.

On clearance racks of the team’s clubhouse stores and in the sale section of its Web site is a T-shirt that has taken on an unintended connotation since Roger Clemens, known as the Rocket, was linked to the use of steroids and human growth hormone. His name and No. 22 are printed on the back, and the front asks, “Got Rocket Fuel?”

“Now we’re left wondering what rocket fuel really means,” Chris Peterson, a fan from Omaha, said Thursday while visiting the Yankees Clubhouse shop on 42nd Street in Manhattan.

According to staff in the stores at Times Square and at 59th Street, the shirts were originally put on sale for $19.99 around the time Clemens returned to the Yankees in June. They now sell for less than $10, and all Clemens merchandise is 50 percent off.

But employees said the discount had nothing to do with allegations of cheating. They attributed the sale to the fact that Clemens would almost certainly not return to the team next season and said the discounts began before Clemens was implicated in George J. Mitchell’s report on performance-enhancing drugs in Major League Baseball. Brian McNamee, a longtime personal trainer for Clemens, told federal agents and Mitchell that he had injected Clemens with steroids and human growth hormone.

Clemens has made a concerted effort to clear his name in recent days, issuing denials of drug use through his lawyers, releasing a video on the Internet and agreeing to be interviewed for CBS’s “60 Minutes” and by other reporters.
696 2007-12-28 SAN FRANCISCO — Apple’s sputtering efforts to be a major purveyor of video downloads may get a boost in 2008 from an agreement with 20th Century Fox for digital movie rentals.

Apple has been trying to interest a number of Hollywood studios in an iTunes rental service, and several people familiar with the negotiations said that more than one studio would appear onstage at the company’s Macworld exhibition here beginning Jan. 14 to endorse a new Apple movie rental service.

These people, who were not authorized to speak publicly about the negotiations, confirmed the Apple-Fox relationship. Apple now trails several companies offering digital movie rental services, including Amazon and Movielink.

The Financial Times first reported the movie rental agreement on Thursday. Apple and Fox executives declined to comment. The Fox studio is a unit of the News Corporation.

Steven P. Jobs, the co-founder and chief executive of Apple, has been publicly skeptical about movie rentals in the past. Hints that Apple would reverse itself and pursue a digital rental strategy emerged last month when a Carnegie Mellon undergraduate found a series of text phrases in the company’s iTunes software suggesting that components of a video-on-demand rental service were already embedded.
697 2007-12-28 Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda of Japan arrived in Beijing for a four-day visit intended to improve ties with China. He will have separate meetings with President Hu Jintao and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao.
698 2007-12-28 The air cargo haulers All Nippon Airways, Air New Zealand and the Malaysian Airline System were charged Thursday with violating European competition rules after an investigation into accusations of price fixing.

European Union regulators have filed formal accusations, the three airlines said in separate statements. They join eight other carriers, including British Airways, that said last week that they faced charges.

All Nippon Airways said it would examine the findings of the European Commission and respond “in due course.” Malaysian Air said its policy was to comply with all applicable laws and that it would seek legal advice.

European regulators have levied a record 3.3 billion euros ($4.8 billion) in penalties this year in cartel cases against companies as diverse as glassmakers and brewers.

All the carriers have two months to defend themselves before the commission considers whether to impose fines.

European and American regulators are investigating at least a dozen carriers for possible price fixing of fuel surcharges at their cargo businesses.
699 2007-12-28 It was an apparent reference to his chief Democratic rival, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, who has questioned Mr. Obama’s qualifications on the foreign-policy front.

Mrs. Clinton, campaigning in Denison, took her own shots. “Some people think you get change by demanding it and some people think you get change by hoping for it,” she said. “I think you get change by working for it every single day.”

Mr. McCain talked about the unrest in Pakistan, the importance of that country in the fight against the Taliban in Afghanistan and the fact that Pakistan is a nuclear power. He then pivoted quickly to his readiness to tackle the situation, saying that he had “been to Waziristan,” a tribal area in Pakistan that is a haven for the Taliban, and that he knew President Pervez Musharraf well.

Mr. McCain is on a three-day swing through Iowa, and then plans to return to New Hampshire, where he has essentially staked his campaign for the Republican nomination.

Although there had been speculation that he was seeking to take advantage of his rise in some polls in New Hampshire to make a last-ditch push in Iowa, McCain staff members said this swing had been planned for some time, even before he was endorsed several weeks ago by The Des Moines Register, the state’s largest newspaper. His campaign here remains bare bones in many ways, although it has about a dozen paid staff members, double what it had during the summer after the McCain campaign stalled and he was forced to lay off employees.

Mr. McCain has not run any television advertisements in the state. His last mailing to Iowa voters went out several months ago. Over the weekend, his campaign ran a few commercials on Christian radio.

Nevertheless, Mr. McCain’s supporters are hoping to surprise some in Iowa, given how few votes typically separate the candidates in the caucuses, which typically see no more than about 100,000 voters turn out in each party.

In particular, if Mr. McCain is able to overtake Fred D. Thompson, the former senator from Tennessee, and finish third — behind Mike Huckabee, a former Arkansas governor, and Mitt Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts — many people would consider it a boost going into New Hampshire, which holds its primary on Jan. 8.

In his appearance in Urbandale, Mr. McCain was asked about the credentials of a Republican rival, Rudolph W. Giuliani, who has campaigned — like Mr. McCain — on national security.

Mr. McCain said that while Mr. Giuliani had done a good job handling New York City after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, he was not necessarily qualified to conduct foreign policy.

“It has very little to do with national security issues,” he said. “It has a lot to do with handling a postcrisis. As far as I know, Mayor Giuliani has never been to Iraq.”
700 2007-12-28 Sallie Mae, the largest student lending company in the United States, said it sold $2 billion of common stock and $1 billion of convertible securities Thursday in a deal that would help pay off bad derivatives bets.

The common stock offering was increased from an originally planned $1.5 billion, and shares were priced at $19.65, equal to Sallie Mae’s closing share price on Thursday.

The preferred shares will offer a dividend of 7.25 percent until the investors convert them into common stock, or until their mandatory conversion into common stock on Dec. 15, 2010.

Sallie Mae, formally known as the SLM Corporation, said on Wednesday that it was issuing convertible preferred securities and common shares. About $2 billion of the proceeds would be used to pay off derivatives known as equity forward contracts, the company said.

Sallie Mae used equity forwards as part of its share buyback plan for years. The contracts allowed the company to reduce the cost of buying back its shares as long as its stock price kept rising.

But if Sallie Mae’s share price fell far enough, the company had to buy back a large number of shares at above-market prices.
701 2007-12-28 Bill Parcells reported to his new job and quickly put aside one theory about what ails the Miami Dolphins. It turns out they really do practice.

The 66-year-old Parcells was on the field for Thursday’s workout and a firsthand look at the N.F.L.’s worst team. He signed a four-year contract last week to become the executive vice president for football operations.

“When he walked out, everybody noticed,” defensive tackle Vonnie Holliday said. “There was a whisper here and there. He didn’t say much. He just kind of sat back in the shadows and talked to a few of the coaches. He didn’t address the team.”

Parcells will probably leave the speeches to his coach, who for the moment is Cam Cameron. Parcells’s first big decision will be whether to retain Cameron and General Manager Randy Mueller, and a major roster shakeup is likely.

The Dolphins lost their first 13 games under Cameron, and they take a 1-14 record into Sunday’s finale against Cincinnati, which will end the worst season in Dolphins history.
702 2007-12-28 A private equity group, Platinum Equity, said Thursday that it wanted to renegotiate its planned $500 million purchase of the automotive glass division of PPG Industries, alleging PPG had misrepresented the health of the business.

In a lawsuit filed on Wednesday, Platinum asked a New York state court to cancel the purchase agreement for PPG Automotive Glass & Services, contending PPG had hidden forecasts that showed the business would face lower sales and higher costs than PPG management had presented during negotiations.

A Platinum spokesman, Mark Barnhill, said the company was still interested in buying the unit, but on terms that “fairly reflect the state of the business.”

PPG, a paint and coatings maker based in Pittsburgh, said it would defend its rights under the sale agreement reached in September.

If the deal does not close, PPG said it would continue to explore strategic alternatives for the auto glass business. It had sought to sell the business as part of its strategy to focus on its core paints and optical products operations.

Platinum said in its suit that PPG had initially said the glass unit would post 2008 revenue of $1.1 billion and earnings of $140 million, but had hidden revised forecasts that trimmed the revenue goal by more than 15 percent and the earnings goal by 40 percent. Platinum Equity is based in Los Angeles.
703 2007-12-28 CHICAGO (AP) — Boeing said Thursday that it had sealed a deal with British Airways, raising the number of orders for its long-awaited 787 Dreamliner plane to 790 during the last three years.

British Airways’ order for 24 Dreamliners gives the plane one of the industry’s most successful introductions ever, even though it has yet to take flight.

Boeing expects to fly the first 787 around the end of the first quarter of 2008 and begin deliveries in late November or December. It expects to deliver 109 airplanes in 2009.

The 787, Boeing’s first newly designed jet since the 777 in 1995, will be the world’s first large commercial airplane made mostly of light, durable less-corrosive carbon-fiber composites. Boeing says its new plane will be cheaper to maintain and more fuel-efficient, and will offer more passenger comforts than those on planes flying today.

Analysts called the demand for the 787 unprecedented.

“This is a breakneck pace,” said a Morningstar analyst, Brian Nelson. “The fact that it continues to get orders and airlines continue to order this represents great confidence that Boeing can build this plane and deliver this plane.”

British Airways placed options for an additional 18 Dreamliners and purchase rights for 10 more.

The British Airways deal is worth $4.4 billion at list prices, though carriers usually negotiate deep discounts on sizable orders.

Boeing’s European rival, Airbus, is struggling with its double-decker flagship A380 and its midrange A350. Wiring and other technical problems have delayed delivery of the A380 by two years.
704 2007-12-28 An even more powerful argument against embroidery as a niche feminist medium comes from several widely known contemporary artists who use needlework in lieu of painting. Laura Owens and Angelo Filomeno fall into this category. Mr. Filomeno’s image of a skeleton, stitched on silk shantung with metallic threads and adorned with crystals, is an explosion of opulence. Ms. Owens’s chinoiserie-inspired flowering tree hand-embroidered on tussah silk is more subtly luxurious. Mr. Filomeno, a former tailor’s apprentice, and Ms. Owens, who trained as a painter, have both done much to erode the distinction between the fine and the decorative arts.

Thread can stand in for the pencil as well as for the paintbrush, as Shizuko Kimura’s virtuoso “figure drawings” suggest. Working from live models, Ms. Kimura uses delicate wisps of cotton, silk and synthetic thread on transparent muslin. They could be pen-and-ink drawings, except for the visible needle holes, loops and knots.

The better-known contemporary artist Ghada Amer has made similar-looking work based on pornographic images, but the curators have chosen one of her more conceptual pieces. Ms. Amer has reproduced definitions of the word fear in English, French and Arabic, a nod to her experience in all three cultures; the text is partly obscured by hanging threads.

Some artists rely on the charm of embroidery to revive tired subjects, not always successfully. Maria E. Piñeres makes needlepoint portraits of Mel Gibson, Paris Hilton and other celebrities, based on their mug shots. While the works exaggerate the indignities of the pixelated digital reproduction, they do not add much to the originals.

Some of the most interesting works reinvigorate the tradition of the sampler, a piece of embroidery that offers a religious or moral saying. Stephen Beal’s “Periodic Table of the Artist’s Colors” assigns a subjective experience to each of 95 colors of embroidery floss. Dark green is “New Zealand Spinach”; pale blue is “Theresa at Marseille.”

The Romanian artist Andrea Dezso has embroidered 48 cotton squares with bits of Transylvanian folk wisdom passed down from her mother. One square suggests, “You can get hepatitis from a handshake,” while another claims, “Men will like me more if I pretend to be less smart.” Each warning or cautionary tale is accompanied by a small, equally humorous illustration.

The moralizing tone extends to several works with political content. These include Christa Maiwald’s party dresses for little girls, embroidered with the images of male world leaders, and Xiang Yang’s portraits of President Bush and Saddam Hussein linked by a rainbow of threads.

Surprisingly, the piece with the most timely subject is also the least dogmatic. Ana de la Cueva’s video “Maquila” shows a commercial sewing machine stitching a white-on-white outline of the United States on plain cotton fabric, with a bold red line demarcating the Mexican border.

The surgical associations of needlework give several objects an uncanny anatomical presence. Morwenna Catt’s soft sculptures of heads, inspired by the bogus science of phrenology, have Frankenstein-like rows of stitches in place of facial features. Kate Kretz embroiders pillowcases with eyelashes and human hairs (including several from an ex-boyfriend). The result is both delicate and creepy, not unlike Robert Gober’s wax sculptures of human limbs.

With 48 artists (nearly twice the number in “Radical Lace and Subversive Knitting”), the show suffers from serious overcrowding. In one problematic section Ms. Reichek’s curtain fuses with Emily Hermant’s installation made from similar materials; in another, a tight cluster of needlepoints gives the impression of a booth at a craft fair.

The curators will have more room to play with after the move to Columbus Circle. In the meantime they might want to make sure that their installations reflect the museum’s revamped image.
705 2007-12-28 The likely delay comes at a delicate time in South Korean politics. The transitional team of President-elect Lee Myung-bak, who won the Dec. 19 election with a pledge to get tough on North Korea, has begun to review his country’s policy toward the North.

Last month, North Korea began disabling its sole operating nuclear reactor and two other plutonium-producing facilities at Yongbyon, under the supervision of American experts.

The Bush administration, which had once designated North Korea as part of an “axis of evil” and refused to deal with it, embraced those agreements as a diplomatic breakthrough at a time when its diplomacy remained bogged down in Iran, another “axis of evil” country suspected of nuclear weapons development.

On Thursday, Mr. Song said more negotiations were required to solve the dispute that set off the nuclear crisis with North Korea five years ago: whether North Korea has tried to enrich uranium in addition to its known program of making bombs with plutonium.

In 2002, the United States confronted North Korea with what it called evidence that the North Koreans were trying to build a uranium enrichment program using centrifuges made of aluminum tubes. In recent talks, however, North Korea failed to give American officials a satisfactory explanation about its uranium enrichment program.

If that issue is not resolved, the United States and its allies may end up disabling North Korea’s plutonium program but may leave it with a potential alternative route to building nuclear bombs with highly enriched uranium.

American suspicions about the uranium program — and the North’s denials — led to the collapse of a 1994 nuclear agreement with North Korea that froze its plutonium program. North Korea revived its plutonium program in 2002 and tested a nuclear device in October 2006.

North Korea acknowledges that it imported tons of high-strength aluminum tubes from Russia, and has even provided the United States with samples, saying that they had nothing to do with uranium enrichment. But American officials reportedly found traces of uranium on those samples, though they remained unsure about their origins.

Kim Sung-han, a North Korea expert at Korea University in Seoul, said, “As long as North Korea flatly denies that it has had a uranium enrichment program, there cannot be advancement toward the next steps” — the dismantling of North Korea’s nuclear facilities and the United States’ normalization of ties with North Korea.

“North Korea must give an explanation the United States can accept,” he said. “There can’t be a compromise on this.”

While negotiators continued haggling, Hyun Hak-pong, a vice director general at North Korea’s Foreign Ministry, said Wednesday that North Korea had “no choice but to take measures to adjust” the disablement work at Yongbyon because aid shipments promised under the October deal were not arriving fast enough, according to Japanese media reports from Pyongyang.

In Washington, a State Department spokesman, Gonzalo Gallegos, said that he was not aware of any slowdown in aid and that the United States expected “further heavy fuel oil shipments and other energy assistance to move forward in the near future.”

North Korea had been promised the equivalent of one million tons of heavy fuel oil in return for disabling its nuclear facilities. It has so far received 150,000 tons of oil and 5,010 tons of steel products to renovate its power plants.

Mr. Kim, the Korea University professor, said North Korea’s strategy appeared to be to “minimize” its nuclear declaration and “maximize” the economic rewards it could get from the Yongbyon plant’s disablement. North Korea may also stall on the process to increase leverage against the new South Korean government, which will be inaugurated in late February, he said.
706 2007-12-28 'NORVAL MORRISSEAU: SHAMAN ARTIST' Using watercolor and ink on slabs of birch bark or buffalo hide, and later acrylic paint on paper and canvas, the Anishinaabe Indian artist Norval Morrisseau, from Canada, produced some of the most original conte...
707 2007-12-28 GIULIANI UNDER SCRUTINY In 2002, the drug maker Purdue Pharma hired Rudolph W. Giuliani and his consulting firm to help stem the controversy about OxyContin. Among Mr. Giuliani's missions was convincing public officials that they could trust Purdu...
708 2007-12-29 Mitt Romney's latest ad focuses squarely on one of Senator John McCain's biggest liabilities: his immigration stance....
709 2007-12-29 John McCain focused his opening remarks on the unique process in this state and, in a not-so-veiled reference to his opponent Mitt Romney, said, "You can't buy an election in the state of New Hampshire."...
710 2007-12-29 The housing bust has lived up fully to my expectations. So far, however, the economy has held up surprisingly well (ask me again in a few months). How come? It's the exports, stupid. I haven't seen this chart published elsewhere, but it seems to m...
711 2007-12-29 Reality television doesn’t rise to challenges. The whole genre is decidedly homemade, a little lazy even, bailing on the need for scripts and actors, for riffs and romps. That makes it perfect for Snoop Dogg, the quick-witted rapper who is always game for a stunt or a catchphrase. And in his sly E! channel showcase, he barely rises to the responsibility of fatherhood.

“Snoop Dogg’s Father Hood” is what the E! channel calls his showcase at-home-with-homeys reality series, an uneasy mix of offspring and entourage. The rapper, who has long peddled his thugged-out past in Long Beach, Calif., now promotes a more honorable present, with two sons and a daughter for whom he must set some kind of example. That means gin and juice, minus the gin. That means the supposedly clean-living Snoop, whose real name is Calvin Broadus, moves from the E! channel’s headlines that run across the bottom of the screen, on which celebrity arrests are often mentioned, up to the main screen, if not exactly the mainstream.

This mildly amusing series, like Snoop’s entire schtick, rides the line between deft and daft. His whole deal is to encourage a rebellion through just chillin’. And for 15 years or so, male fans in particular have applauded his marijuana-flavored mellow, his addition of “-izz” syllables into words as code for things being all good.

He purports to bow to at least one authority: his wife, Shanté Broadus, as stern a task-master as the wife of Tracy Jordan on “30 Rock,” though less comically shrill. Snoop reveres her as “Boss Lady.”

To appease his wife, the Dogg entertains some new tricks. He tries yoga, works at becoming a soccer dad and even does light housekeeping. But his gangsta outlook is intact. Sprawled out on the yoga mat, he at first fantasizes that a police officer has ordered him to lie down on the ground; and next that, because the yoga has made him feel so mellow, he’s stoned.
712 2007-12-29 A Russian government agency disputed reports that it had signed a contract to sell a sophisticated air-defense system to Iran, saying it had no such plans. This week, the Iranian defense minister, Mostafa Mohammad Najar, said that a contact had been signed and that Russia would equip Iran with S-300 missiles, which are used to shoot down planes and missiles. In a statement posted on its Web site, the Russian agency, the Federal Military and Technical Cooperation Service, flatly denied the Iranian claim. “The issue of supplying Iran with S-300 anti-aircraft missile systems, raised by mass media, is not on the agenda, is not being considered and is not being discussed with the Iranian side at the moment,” the statement said.
713 2007-12-29 Deron Washington and A. D. Vassallo each added 17 points for the Hokies (7-5), who had lost two out of three, including their Atlantic Coast Conference opener against Wake Forest.

The freshman Charles Jenkins had 13 points for the defending champion Pride (2-7), which played without the senior guard Antoine Agudio, the second-leading scorer in the nation with a 26.8-point average. Agudio sprained his left ankle in practice Wednesday. Despite receiving treatment all day Thursday and up until warm-ups Friday, Agudio missed his first game after starting the first 103 of his career.

UCONN 85, U.C.F. 82 Jerome Dyson scored 23 points to lead five Connecticut players in double figures as the visiting Huskies defeated Central Florida. UConn (9-2) led by 3 points early in the second half but used an 8-2 run to take a 56-46 lead it did not relinquish. A. J. Price scored 5 points during that stretch, making a 3-pointer and a driving layup. He scored 13 points. U.C.F. stayed close with good perimeter shooting; the Knights tied a season high with 10 3-pointers.

FORDHAM 72, BINGHAMTON 60 Bryant Dunston had 24 points and 14 rebounds to lead host Fordham. Binghamton (3-8) opened the second half on a 25-7 run to take its only lead, 47-46. A layup by Reggie Fuller ended the surge at 10:29. Dunston then made a jumper and a 3-pointer to put the Rams (6-5) ahead, 51-47, with 9:43 to play.

RHODE ISLAND 92, E. MICHIGAN 75 Will Daniels and Jimmy Baron each scored 18 points to lead No. 25 Rhode Island past Eastern Michigan in the Islander Invitational in Corpus Christi, Tex. The Rams improved to 12-1 in their first game as a Top 25 team since the 1998-99 season.

MISSISSIPPI 78, SOUTHERN MISS 58 Chris Warren scored 17 points and Dwayne Curtis added 15 as No. 22 Mississippi won its 12th straight game, setting a school record for consecutive wins to start the season.

BUTLER 57, S.I.U. 55 A. J. Graves made a half-court shot at the buzzer to lift No. 16 Butler past host Southern Illinois.

B.C. 80, SACRED HEART 75 Tyrese Rice and Shamari Spears each scored 16 points to lead host Boston College. Rice, the team’s leading scorer at 19.7 points a game, shot 3 for 6 from the floor but went 8 for 8 from the free-throw line.

AROUND THE NATION Marquis Hall had 12 points and Rob Keefer added 11 as Lehigh defeated visiting Monmouth, 56-39. ... Jonathan Han scored 24 points — including the tying shot late in regulation — as visiting Fairfield rallied in overtime to beat St. Peter’s, 89-78. ... Ahmed Nivins had 20 points and 7 rebounds and St. Joseph’s made 10 3-pointers to beat host Siena, 74-68. ... Jerret Smith has been dismissed from Michigan’s basketball team by Coach John Beilein for not meeting the expectations for a student-athlete.

MIDDLE TENN. 67, L.S.U. 56 Amber Holt scored a career-high 41 points and added 9 rebounds to help Middle Tennessee upset No. 8 Louisiana State. Holt, a senior guard, finished a point short of the school record for most points in a game, set by Kim Webb in 1987.
714 2007-12-29 “We had no compulsion at the start of the year to do anything,” Mr. Buffett said. “On the other hand, there was no limit to what we could do.”

Thousands of investors on and off Wall Street study what Mr. Buffett does. It’s no wonder: Over the past four decades he has built Berkshire Hathaway into a $216 billion company with businesses ranging from insurance and corporate jets to ice cream, underwear and Coca-Cola. During that time, his company’s book value has soared by more than 360,000 percent.

Amid the turmoil in the financial markets this year, Mr. Buffett quietly tinkered with his company’s vast stock portfolio, which totaled $78 billion as of Sept. 30.

He has increased his stakes in two major banks, U.S. Bancorp and Wells Fargo, and cast new bets on Burlington Northern, the country’s second-largest railroad, and CarMax, the biggest used-car dealership. On Friday, in addition to announcing his intention to enter bond insurance, Mr. Buffett agreed to buy NRG, a reinsurance unit of ING.

With about $47 billion in cash on hand, Berkshire still has plenty of money for acquisitions. At the company’s annual meeting in May, Mr. Buffett said he would consider a deal as large as $60 billion.

But Mr. Buffett warned on Friday that the crisis that began in the market for housing debt shows few signs of abating. He added that he had decided to establish his own bond insurance company, rather than purchase one, to avoid “buying into anybody else’s trouble.”

Berkshire, which has an AAA credit rating, will enter the business as bond insurers like MBIA and Ambac are struggling to raise capital and protect their gilt-edged ratings. Mr. Buffett said he believes that most of the investments that are available to him in the financial industry “don’t make sense.”

People who follow Mr. Buffett said such wariness is a hallmark of his investing style. He has learned from past mistakes, said Gerald Martin, a finance professor at American University and Texas A&M University.

For instance, Berkshire’s 1998 acquisition of General Re, the insurance company, was marred by a portfolio of complex derivative securities and state and federal investigations into reinsurance policies written by the company. Salomon Brothers, the Wall Street firm that Mr. Buffett was pressed to take control of in the early 1990s amid a trading scandal, was another taxing experience.

Fixing a troubled company has “got to take a tremendous amount of management time,” said Mr. Martin, who in October published a paper on how well investors would have done if they had copied Mr. Buffett’s investment moves. “I can certainly understand him wanting to shy away from it.”

That may explain why Mr. Buffett has decided to start a new bond guarantor rather than take control of one of the many firms already in the business, among them MBIA, Ambac and FGIC. Critics say those bond guarantors do not have enough capital to cover future losses in the mortgage-related securities they have guaranteed.

In recent weeks, credit rating agencies have told some of these firms to raise new capital or risk losing their AAA rating, an outcome that would make it virtually impossible for them to write new insurance policies.

“Credibility is really your stock in trade in this business,” said Jeffrey Houston, a vice president and senior portfolio manager at American Century Investments, a mutual fund company in Mountain View, Calif. “And MBIA and some of the others are operating with a taint on their name.”

Mr. Buffett said his new bond insurance company, Berkshire Hathaway Assurance, would start by guaranteeing bonds in New York State, where regulators have promised to provide the firm with a license by Monday. Berkshire intends to quickly enter other large states like California and Texas. “This may turn out to be something quite large, or it may not,” he said.

Mr. Buffett’s intentions were first reported by The Wall Street Journal on Friday. The news sent the shares of MBIA down $3.53, or 15.9 percent, to $18.74; Ambac shares fell $4.02, or 13.8 percent, to $25.12.

Investors in municipal debt said that Berkshire’s foray into the business would not have an immediate impact on the bond market, which has suffered recently because of the credit crisis and concern about the viability of bond guarantors. But over time the company could prove to be a formidable competitor to MBIA and other companies in the field, said John Miller, chief investment officer of the municipal bond group at Nuveen Investments in Chicago.

“This creates some long-term competition from a clean AAA name,” he said.

Berkshire’s A-shares closed up $3,300, or 2.4 percent, to $141,100. The shares touched an all-time high of $149,200 on Dec. 10 but fell after an article in Barron’s asserted that the stock was overvalued and Mr. Buffett would have a hard time expanding his portfolio.

Among its many holdings, Berkshire owns the auto insurer Geico and has a big stake in The Washington Post Company.
715 2007-12-29 DUBUQUE, Iowa — With the skirmishing between the campaigns of John Edwards and Senator Barack Obama intensifying, Mr. Edwards on Friday tried to distinguish himself from his Democratic rivals, saying he has “what it takes in here for the battle” with corporate interests.

Alluding to the fight for universal health care, Mr. Edwards said, “We do have that fight, and I think Senator Obama has a different approach to that.”

Mr. Edwards has repeatedly suggested that Mr. Obama would too readily negotiate with the health care industry.

In a new stump speech, Mr. Edwards warned of the perils facing the nation.

“Everything that makes America America is threatened today,” he told a standing-room-only crowd here. “The very things that make the promise of equal opportunity possible are at risk: Good jobs, a strong middle class, each generation doing its part to make certain that we give our children a better life.”

Mr. Edwards drew the presidential election in broad strokes, calling it “not just another four-year fight between political parties,” but a struggle for the nation’s future that should unite Democrats, Republicans and independents.
716 2007-12-29 Bond prices rose sharply. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose a full point, to 101 13/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.07 percent, from 4.20 percent Thursday.

The S.& P. 500 lost 0.4 percent for the week, while the Dow slipped 0.6 percent and the Nasdaq dropped 0.7 percent.

Energy and mining companies have led the S.& P. to a 4.24 percent advance this year as speculation that the global economy will keep growing overshadowed a worsening housing slump.

Oil drillers, refiners and drilling services companies have rallied 34 percent in 2007, helping the S.& P. 500 Energy Index more than triple in five years.

The Dow industrial average has risen 7.24 percent in 2007, while the Nasdaq is up 10.73 percent.

Natural gas for February delivery rose 2.6 percent, to $7.386 per million British thermal units, the highest since Dec. 12. Crude oil for February delivery touched $97.92 a barrel, rising within $1 of its record close of $98.18 on Nov. 23, before falling 62 cents, to $96.

ConocoPhillips added 53 cents, to $89.18. Exxon, also a producer of natural gas, increased $1.33, to $95. The rise in energy shares helped erase earlier losses spurred by concern falling home sales will cause a recession.

“We don’t think the prices on the energy stocks are overdone at all,” said Ted Baszler, who helps manage $3 billion at Heartland Advisors in Milwaukee. “They definitely have more room to run here. The long-term story for oil remains very bullish.”

But Richard I. Sichel, chief investment officer at Philadelphia Trust, which manages $1.5 billion, said energy was “not the best leader to have because it’s typically based on higher energy prices.”

“You would rather see consumer and financial stocks leading the way,” he said. “That would be a healthier environment.”

Financial shares lost 0.5 percent in their third consecutive retreat. Citigroup fell 27 cents, to a five-year low of $29.29. Bank of America slid 36 cents, to a three-year low of $41.10. JPMorgan Chase declined 38 cents, to $43.26.

Banks and brokerage firms retreated even as traders increased bets that the Federal Reserve will lower interest rates at its next two meetings. The odds of a quarter-point cut, to 4 percent, at the Jan. 30 meeting increased to 90 percent, from 76 percent, and the chances of a reduction to 3.75 percent on March 18 rose to 58 percent, from 44 percent, future contracts indicate.

D. R. Horton and Centex, two of the four largest builders by revenue, led home builders in S.& P. indexes to a 2.6 percent decline. D. R. Horton fell 56 cents, to $13.10. Centex lost 75 cents, to $24.97.

MBIA and Ambac Financial, the largest bond insurers, declined the most in the S.& P. 500 on news that the investor Warren E. Buffett, chairman of Berkshire Hathaway, had started a rival company to insure only municipal bonds.

MBIA and Ambac, which began as municipal bond insurers, are struggling to maintain the AAA credit ratings that allow them to do business after downgrades of mortgage-related securities they also guarantee.

MBIA, which is down 74 percent this year, fell $3.53, to $18.74.

Ambac, which is down 72 percent this year, declined $4.02, to $25.12.
717 2007-12-29 IN an effort to stymie Internet pirates, the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, a music industry group, is asking European lawmakers to require Internet service providers to use filters to block the illicit transfer of copyrighted material (dslreports.com).

The Electronic Frontier Foundation (eff.org), a privacy advocate, responded by sending a letter to the European Parliament arguing that such filters would be an “ineffective measure that will do little to practically address the concerns of major rights holders while imposing serious costs on the individual rights of European citizens.”

The filtering technology would not be effective, according to the foundation, because pirates would simply encrypt files to bypass it in the same way that banks encrypt credit card information. Meanwhile, legitimate users of copyrighted material would be hampered in their ability to post video and music clips. And the costs would most likely be borne by service providers, and, by extension, their customers, the foundation said.

Media companies and trade groups in the United States have sought similar measures. In a widely ridiculed letter to the Federal Communications Commission last summer, NBC Universal said such filters would help American corn farmers because Internet users, unable to watch pirated movies, would head to theaters and buy popcorn (publicknowledge.org).

The recording industry group is asking that service providers use filtering technology like that made by Audible Magic, which identifies and blocks audio files bearing a digital “fingerprint.” It further asks that service providers block users’ access to specific peer-to-peer file-sharing services — those that “have refused to implement steps to prevent infringement,” according to a copy of the group’s request obtained by the Electronic Frontier Foundation.
718 2007-12-29 September and October were the first months ever in which the S.& P./Case-Shiller indexes failed to show any market with at least a 5 percent annual gain, as is shown in the accompanying chart.

While the current slowdown affects all markets, it is generally worse in those that went up the most in the housing boom. During the five-year period that ended in July 2006 — when national housing prices peaked, according to the indexes — seven markets showed compound annual gains of at least 14 percent. Since the peak, all seven markets are among the bottom eight. What goes up the most does come down the most, or so it appears.

The exception to that rule is Detroit, home of the troubled American automobile industry. It was the worst performing market during the boom, and it is among the worst since.

The figures shown in the chart are the annual rates of change over the 15 months since the peak, with the fastest rate of decline in the Tampa, Fla., region.

But it is Miami, the other Florida market covered by the indexes, that has been going down at the fastest rate over the last year. Prices there fell 12.4 percent in the 12 months through October. That is the most rapid fall the indexes have ever recorded, exceeding the 11.2 percent decline the Boston area showed in the 12 months through February 1991.

The indexes are compiled by comparing repeated sales of the same homes, and the 20 regions are broad enough to cover entire areas. The New York market, for example, stretches from New Haven to Trenton.

The indexes cover only single-family home sales, not sales of condominium apartments. In the Florida markets, where condo prices have suffered badly because of speculative overbuilding, that means the indexes may be understating the distress.

In the early 1990s there was something close to a national weakening of home prices during and after the 1991 recession. But at the low point, the S.& P./Case-Shiller indexes still showed annual price gains in five of the 17 markets the indexes then covered. And there were no months when at least one market did not show a gain from the previous month.

Now prices appear to be weakening everywhere.
719 2007-12-29 The former agent for the sprinter Marion Jones has been suspended by USA Track and Field for two years. The penalty dates to March 22, when the agent Charles Wells pleaded guilty to bank fraud in a money laundering case that also ensnared Jones; h...
720 2007-12-29 CHIEF SELLS SHARES The chief executive of Bear Stearns, James E. Cayne, sold $15.4 million of the company's stock this month, at the end of a year in which he found himself at the forefront of a global credit crisis. Mr. Cayne exercised and sold 1...
721 2007-12-30 I didn't watch Russert - I almost never do - but apparently Barack Obama has just floated the idea of imposing some penalty on people who fail to sign up for health insurance. If he's serious, and the penalty is sufficient to deter free riding, gr...
722 2007-12-30 In a series of talks, the Republican candidate wrestles with the reality of situations like that in Darfur....
723 2007-12-30 So, Letterman will be back next week after cutting a separate deal with his striking writers. But of course, Laugh Lines jokesters have never been away (send your "late night" quips via the comment link below). More reader comedy: Monday is New Ye...
724 2007-12-30 The Republican candidate snags yet another newspaper's backing in the Granite State....
725 2007-12-30 That’s exactly what I intended to ﬁnd out, and the result of this admittedly harebrained experiment is the book you now hold in your hands.

I was born in the Year of the Smiley Face: 1963. That’s when a graphic designer from Worcester, Massachusetts, named Harvey Ball invented the now-ubiquitous grinning yellow graphic. Originally, Ball’s creation was designed to cheer up people who worked at, of all places, an insurance company, but it has since become synonymous with the frothy, quintessentially American brand of happiness.

Ball’s cheery icon never worked its magic on me. I am not a happy person, never have been. As a child, my favorite Winnie-the-Pooh character was Eeyore. For most of human history, I would have been considered normal. Happiness, in this life, on this earth, was a prize reserved for the gods and the fortunate few. Today, though, not only is happiness considered possible for anyone to attain, it is expected. Thus I, and millions of others, suffer from the uniquely modern malady that historian Darrin McMahon calls “the unhappiness of not being happy.” It is no fun at all.

And so, like many others, I’ve worked at it. I never met a self-help book I didn’t like. My bookshelf is a towering, teetering monument to existential angst, brimming with books informing me that happiness lies deep inside of me. If I’m not happy, they counsel, then I’m not digging deep enough.

This axiom of the self-help industrial complex is so deeply ingrained as to be self-evident. There’s only one problem: It’s not true. Happiness is not inside of us but out there. Or, to be more precise, the line between out there and in here is not as sharply deﬁned as we think.

The late British-born philosopher Alan Watts, in one of his wonderful lectures on eastern philosophy, used this analogy: “If I draw a circle, most people, when asked what I have drawn, will say I have drawn a circle or a disc, or a ball. Very few people will say I’ve drawn a hole in the wall, because most people think of the inside ﬁrst, rather than thinking of the outside. But actually these two sides go together—you cannot have what is ‘in here’ unless you have what is ‘out there.’ ”

In other words, where we are is vital to who we are.

By “where,” I’m speaking not only of our physical environment but also of our cultural environment. Culture is the sea we swim in—so pervasive, so all-consuming, that we fail to notice its existence until we step out of it. It matters more than we think.

With our words, we subconsciously conﬂate geography and happiness. We speak of searching for happiness, of ﬁ nding contentment, as if these were locations in an atlas, actual places that we could visit if only we had the proper map and the right navigational skills. Anyone who has taken a vacation to, say, some Caribbean island and had ﬂash through their mind the uninvited thought “I could be happy here” knows what I mean.

Lurking just behind the curtain is, of course, that tantalizing, slippery concept known as paradise. It has beguiled us humans for some time now. Plato imagined the Blessed Isles, a place where happiness ﬂowed like the warm Mediterranean waters. Until the eighteenth century, people believed that biblical paradise, the Garden of Eden, was a real place. It appeared on maps—located, ironically, at the conﬂuence of the Tigris and Euphrates rivers, in what is now modern-day Iraq.

European explorers prepared for expeditions in search of paradise by learning Aramaic, the language Jesus spoke. I set out on my journey, my search for paradise, speaking not Aramaic but another obscure language, the modern liturgy of bliss spoken by the new apostles of the emerging science of happiness. I brush up on terms like “positive affect” and “hedonic adaptation.” I carry no Bible, just a few Lonely Planet guides and a conviction that, as Henry Miller said, “One’s destination is never a place, but a new way of seeing things.”

And so, on a typically steamy day in Miami (itself some people’s concept of paradise), I pack my bags and depart my home on what I know full well is a fool’s errand, every bit as foolish as the one I tried to pull off as a peripatetic ﬁve-year-old. As the author Eric Hoffer put it, “The search for happiness is one of the chief sources of unhappiness.” That’s okay. I’m already unhappy. I have nothing to lose.

Excerpted from The Geography of Bliss by Eric Weiner Copyright © 2007 by Eric Weiner. Excerpted by permission. All rights reserved. No part of this excerpt may be reproduced or reprinted without permission in writing from the publisher. Excerpts are provided by Dial-A-Book Inc. solely for the personal use of visitors to this web site.
726 2007-12-30 MEMPHIS (AP) — Mississippi State’s victory in the Liberty Bowl was the kind of game Coach Sylvester Croom’s mentor, Bear Bryant, would have loved.

Playing at the site where Bryant coached his final game 25 years ago, the Bulldogs used power running and a dominant defense to beat Central Florida, 10-3, Saturday and earn a milestone win for the once-dormant program.

“I’ve said quite often we don’t need style points,” said Croom, who played and coached under Bryant at Alabama for 11 seasons. “We just find a way to win.”

Anthony Dixon powered in from the 1 for the winning touchdown with 1 minute 54 seconds to go and Derek Pegues, the game’s most valuable player, picked off two passes in a game featuring anemic offenses and 17 punts.

The Bulldogs (8-5) kept the Knights (10-4) out of the end zone and Kevin Smith from breaking the single-season rushing record. Smith finished with 119 yards, leaving him 61 shy of Barry Sanders’ mark of 2,628 yards set for Oklahoma State in 1988.

“I was trying to find the holes, but they were playing faster than us,” said Smith, a junior who has said he will return for his senior season.
727 2007-12-30 BEIJING — The authorities have detained a prominent Chinese human rights advocate on suspicion of subversion, escalating a crackdown on dissent during the West’s holiday season.

The police detained the advocate, Hu Jia, 34, at his home in Beijing on Thursday. They gave his wife a warrant stating that he was suspected of “incitement to subvert state power,” a catchall charge often used against people whom the authorities deem threatening to their power, a friend of Mr. Hu said.

If indicted and convicted, Mr. Hu could be sentenced to a long prison term. But a prosecution of one of the best known human rights advocates would generate negative publicity about China’s rights record before the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing.

Mr. Hu became well known for helping people with AIDS get treatment despite official attempts to cover up the extent of China’s AIDS crisis. Recently, he has acted as a clearinghouse for information about lawyers, peasant protesters and labor and human rights advocates around China who have faced intimidation, beatings or arrest.

Mr. Hu and his wife, Zeng Jinyan, maintain a blog that chronicles their lives under effective house arrest. Mr. Hu writes often about his run-ins with state security offices and hired thugs.

Using a Web camera, Mr. Hu participated in a European parliamentary hearing in Brussels in November about human rights in China. At the hearing he said: “It is ironic that one of the people in charge of organizing the Olympic Games is the head of the Bureau of Public Security, which is responsible for so many human rights violations. It is very serious that the official promises are not being kept before the games.”
728 2007-12-30 Meghann Shaughnessy, filling in for Serena Williams, was a winner in her match, then Mardy Fish clinched a victory for the United States over India in the opening round of the mixed-teams Hopman Cup in Perth, Australia. Shaughnessy won the last five games to defeat Sania Mirza, 6-3, 4-6, 6-3. Fish secured the victory with a 6-2, 6-4 win over Rohan Bopanna. Mirza and Bopanna won the mixed doubles, 6-4, 6-4.Williams, recovering from a knee injury, was expected to arrive in Perth in time for the United States’ match Monday against the Czech Republic.
729 2007-12-30 The decision suggested a deep ambivalence within the governor’s office regarding treatment of convicts. Mr. Spitzer created a commission to study disparities in sentencing, while he imposed curbs on temporary release programs from prison. He issued one pardon, erasing a robbery conviction, since called into question, of a Brooklyn man who had been out of prison for 10 years but was threatened with deportation to his native Jamaica because of the case. He did not grant a single request for clemency.

Releasing inmates has proved troublesome to politicians nationally, from Michael S. Dukakis, whose presidential campaign in 1988 was put on the defensive because of Willie Horton, a convicted murderer who committed a rape while on furlough from a Massachusetts prison, to Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor, whose clemency record was questioned this year.

While preliminary figures suggest that violent felons have been more likely to be paroled under Mr. Spitzer than under Mr. Pataki (the board is still dominated by Pataki appointees, though), a federal judge this month granted the inmates class-action status, and their lawsuit is proceeding.

In 2006, the last year of the Pataki administration, releases were approved for 20 of the 274 inmates who had been convicted of violent crimes and went before the parole board for an initial hearing. This year, through the end of November, 40 of 292 were released. In 2006, of the 978 who had previously been rejected and appeared before the board for a rehearing, 128 were released. This year, of the 957 who appeared, 185 were released.

Robert N. Isseks, a lawyer for the inmates, said: “We’re informed that the release rate is going up. However, as we see more people getting released, there are still a large number of people who have exemplary prison records being denied parole just because of the nature of their crime.”

The Board of Parole consists of 19 members appointed by the governor and confirmed by the Senate. Five of the current 17 members (two spots are vacant) were appointed by Mr. Spitzer.

Typically convening in panels of two or three members, members of the Parole Board consider whether inmates who received indeterminate sentences — 25 years to life, for example — have met the requirements for release after having served their minimum terms. Since the mid-1990s, violent felons have received specific sentences, after which they may be released to the supervision of parole officers.

The lawsuit by the inmates charged that prisoners eligible for parole were denied their constitutional rights during the Pataki administration because of what they said was the board’s unwritten policy of rejecting parole in most of the cases solely because of the severity of the crime. The lawsuit said the board failed to also take into account, as required, the degree of remorse or rehabilitation or the likelihood that the inmate would commit another crime if released.

Although a settlement of the suit seemed near, there was a hairpin turn after the Parole Board approved the release of Shuiab A. Raheem, who was serving 25 years to life for the 1973 holdup and siege of a Brooklyn sporting goods store during which hostages were held, Officer Stephen Gilroy was killed and two others were wounded. Four men were charged, but it was not clear who fired the fatal shot.

The board cited Mr. Raheem’s spotless disciplinary record for eight years, his participation in a program to help young people and the fact that he had earned several college degrees.

Mr. Lynch, of the police union, demanded that statements be taken from the hostages and the officer’s widow, Patricia, who was quoted as saying: “He is still the love of my life.”

In response, the Parole Board delayed Mr. Raheem’s scheduled Jan. 3 release and agreed to reconsider the case.

“We don’t want to take any credit if the thing is defeated,” Joseph Mancini, a spokesman for the Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association, said of the inmates’ lawsuit. “We just want to make sure it is.”

When the settlement evaporated, Mr. Isseks said: “The timing was pretty obvious. We got word not long after the news articles by e-mail that they don’t want to pursue the settlement and refused to give us a reason.”

“I can’t tell you what was in Spitzer’s mind,” Mr. Isseks said. “I can tell you we had reached a settlement. It was just a matter of putting it in writing.”

Paul Larrabee, a spokesman for the governor, declined to discuss what the tipping point was, but said that “all the terms were not mutually acceptable.”

“The state takes the position that it has the right to reject parole for certain inmates,” Mr. Larrabee said.

John Milgram, a spokesman for Mr. Cuomo, said that the attorney general serves as the governor’s lawyer and that “any decision to settle or not settle would be from the administration.”

Mark E. Johnson, a spokesman for the state’s Division of Parole, said he could not comment on pending litigation.

John M. Caher, a spokesman for the state’s Division of Criminal Justice Services, said only, “We just made the decision not to settle and to take the case to court,” and noted that anyone denied parole was entitled to a new parole hearing in two years.

Still, Mr. Isseks said: “Two years is a long time. These are people’s lives, people who have been held far longer than they should have been. Some of them have been denied a dozen or more times.”

Among the proponents of the aborted settlement was the Osborne Association, which works with current and former inmates and has joined other prisoner advocacy groups in preparing inmates for their parole hearings and in studying recidivism rates for former convicts released after serving lengthy terms.

Praising Mr. Spitzer’s “longstanding commitment to a credible and fair criminal justice system,” Ms. Gaynes said the state “was appropriately inclined toward a settlement that would only have given incarcerated people what they were legally entitled to in the first place” but withdrew from the negotiations after negative editorials and “inaccurate allegations” about the governor’s parole policies.

A state study found that from 1985 to 2002, of 1,105 inmates released from New York State prisons after serving a sentence for murder, 33 were imprisoned again for new crimes and 189 for violating parole.

Ms. Gaynes said the settlement would have “given new parole hearings to everyone serving life sentences who had been denied parole prior to April of this year, when the new Parole Board began following the correct guidelines.”

Among the plaintiffs in the inmates’ lawsuit was Charles E. Friedgood, a wealthy surgeon from Long Island who was convicted of murdering his wife in 1975. Dr. Friedgood, who at 89 was the oldest inmate in the state prison system, was granted parole this month after having been rejected five times.

In 2003, after the Parole Board concluded that his offense represented “a propensity for extreme violence,” a state appeals court ridiculed that reasoning as “so irrational under the circumstances as to border on impropriety.”
730 2007-12-30 That’s not all: salaries are generally lower, and then throw in the expense of taking a ferry or plane back to the rest of the world.

FOUR years ago, Dick Holtzman also made an emotional choice when he moved with his wife, Sheila, and youngest child from Scottsdale, Ariz., to the island of Kauai (population 60,000) in Hawaii.

“Scottsdale was turning into L.A.,” said Mr. Holtzman, 53, now president of the Kukui’ula Development Company, a thousand-acre luxury resort and residential complex to open near Poipu Beach on Kauai in 2009. “Personally, I felt like I was stagnating.”

More than the job opportunity, however, was the pull of the islands. Though he was born on the mainland, he grew up on Oahu.

“I’ve taken an initial hit financially and my wife went into sticker shock the first year at the price of milk, but our bottom line is balanced by how much we love living here,” he said. “Even bad days are tolerable living in paradise.”

More people are moving to what demographers call “amenity areas”: nonmetropolitan regions with large percentages of seasonal housing, high expenditures for recreational activities and hotels, and a significant concentration of natural amenities like shoreline. Many islands fit that definition.

“Demographers often say people vote with their feet by moving,” said Kenneth M. Johnson, who is researching trends and conditions in small-town America as senior demographer at the Carsey Institute at the University of New Hampshire. “In that case, it certainly appears that one of the places they’re voting for is islands.”

On Martha’s Vineyard alone, the year-round population has risen to 15,500 from 6,000 in 1970. That growth rate is seven times that of Massachusetts over all and three times that of the rest of the country, according to the Martha’s Vineyard Commission. In the summer, the Vineyard’s population can swell to an estimated 120,000.

Living on an island has become a drastic form of cocooning.

“It’s not just the romantic fantasy of what islands represent in literature and mythology or people’s own vacation memories,” said Joshua Calder, director of the global lifestyles project for Social Technologies, a research firm based in Washington, and an island buff with his own Web site, www.WorldIslandInfo.com. “It’s also the fact that bodies of water separate them from everything they want to escape on the mainland — development, traffic, stressed-out work lives, anonymity in urban and suburban communities, bad relationships. Once on the ferry, they leave all that behind.”

And now, thanks to the Internet, they can have their isolation and stay connected to the world as much, or as little, as they want.

Most island economies, once buoyed by agriculture and fishing, depend on the ebb and flow of seasonal tourism, so year-round islanders learn how to make as much money as possible in the high season, then squirrel it away to tide them over in the lean off-season months. They take trips off their islands to buy in bulk at warehouse club discount chains, and they often cobble together a living by wearing several revenue-producing hats.

Mark Hampton, a native of the British Channel island of Jersey (population 91,300), says that on his isle “we have a history of doing almost anything to make ends meet.” In winter, fishermen from his island used to knit sweaters made of wool and oil; those sweaters were named jerseys.

“It’s a common story for island folk around the world,” said Mr. Hampton, who is director of the Center for Tourism in Islands and Coastal Areas at the University of Kent in Canterbury, England, and treasurer of the International Small Islands Studies Association. “The economic survival strategy is to keep lots of fingers in many pies.”

Kassia Sing and Ed Kaufman, both 45, used another strategy after finding the island of their dreams by surfing the Internet. They downsized their lives, by choice. Three years ago, they sold their house in Portland, Ore., and settled with their two children, both of elementary school age, on Bainbridge Island (population 20,300), a 30-minute ferry ride from downtown Seattle. (A 2005 CNN/Money poll called Bainbridge Island the second-best place to live in America, after Moorestown, N.J.)

“After more than 20 years as a corporate finance executive, I was burned to a crisp,” Ms. Sing said. “We wanted a sane home life and we wanted community.” She took a huge pay cut to head up the Bainbridge Community Foundation. Mr. Kaufman now works as a loan officer for an island bank, for 30 percent less than he said he could have made for the same job in Seattle.

Even after selling their four-bedroom, three-bath split-level 1960s house in Oregon, they had to dip into their savings to buy a three-bedroom, 2.5-bath 1989 tract house on Bainbridge, where the average home price is close to $820,000, according to 2007 data from the Bainbridge Island Chamber of Commerce.

For many people, owning a piece of the rock is an ever-fading oasis on the horizon. And even those whose landholding lineage goes way back may have to be creative cobblers.

Jeremy Mayhew, 31, traces his Martha’s Vineyard ties to 1641, when a direct forebear, Thomas Mayhew, an English merchant living in Watertown, Mass., bought the Vineyard, Nantucket and the Elizabeth Islands and sent his son to settle the Vineyard. Much more recently, Jeremy Mayhew decided against the sword-fishing tradition of his father and grandfather and instead became a filmmaker and motion graphics designer.

“MY grandfather grew up on land his father subdivided; my father and his brothers did the same,” Mr. Mayhew said. “Now, however, with my generation, we are running out of land." His film “Striker’s Passing” documents his family’s dying industry. He and his wife, Michele, also 31, were living in Philadelphia when they came to the Vineyard for the film’s premier in 1999.

“I intended to live somewhere else, but she fell in love with this place,” he recalled. Since then, he has held jobs as a carpenter, commercial fisherman, assistant film editor, co-founder of the Martha’s Vineyard Independent Film Festival and freelance graphics designer. Ms. Mayhew started as a jewelry artisan and now teaches second grade, in addition to selling her jewelry at summer flea markets and arts festivals.

For the first three years, they did what locals call the “Vineyard shuffle,” commuting between affordable winter rentals and whatever summer digs they could arrange — in their case, tents behind his father’s summer house in the town of Chilmark.

The couple now live in that summer house, recently insulated on the cheap. Through a program that enables eligible Vineyard couples to buy land, they are in line to acquire an acre of his father’s property behind the couple’s current house.

Despite the delicate financial balancing act, they will stay on the Vineyard. “Every time I am away, I sort of ache,” Mr. Mayhew said. “It feels weird when I am completely landlocked.”
731 2007-12-30 Emily Hunter Mann, the daughter of Susan Leslie Mann and John Bright Mann of Baltimore, was married there on Saturday to Thomas Anthony Werthman, the son of Lucille Werthman and Ronald Werthman, also of Baltimore. The Rev. Louis A. Bianco, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony at the Cathedral of Mary Our Queen.

Mrs. Werthman, 26, is the director of fund-raising and marketing at the League for People with Disabilities, a health agency in Baltimore that provides rehabilitation services. She graduated from the University of Wisconsin.

The bridegroom, 27, is a law clerk for the Circuit Court of Allegany County in Cumberland, Md. He graduated from Boston College and has a law degree from the University of Baltimore.
732 2007-12-30 Recently in Darien, neighborhood opposition has helped stall plans for lights at the high school football field.

Of course, everyone has the right to raise concerns. But with rights come responsibilities, and people have to accept that their neighborhoods, too, may be asked to accommodate some public amenities — and necessities.

This week, the Board of Education unveiled a compromise idea that could lead to lights being erected at the high school football field. Many are against the plan because they feel it would possibly reduce their property values. But others think that holding Friday night football games would be a great way to bring the community together — and provide a safe activity for kids.

The compromise plan, which will go before the public before it is voted on next year, has some strict guidelines, many of which seem reasonable. However, two things stick out: At least one team must be from Darien to use the field at night; this would prohibit the town from hosting conference or state playoff games, which are generally held on neutral sites. The other ridiculous idea is that a visiting team cannot bring its school band. These two guidelines send a bad message: If you’re not from here, we don’t want you here.

Neighbors may have very legitimate concerns. But folks also ought to maintain a little perspective. Most of the time, it’s not the end of the world — or even a real problem. It’s just change.

In the coming weeks, property owners in several municipalities in Greater Waterbury and Litchfield County will get reassessment notices arising from revaluation. Done properly, revaluation brings assessments in line with fair market value, thereby ensuring everyone pays his share of real estate taxes.
733 2007-12-30 Love it, I thought. But I was also wary of power failures, and couldn’t help but wonder how practical it was to have those windows in a city with good weather only half of the year. But soon, my friend and I were being swept away by the sheer ingenuity of the scheme and the opening and closing, appearing and disappearing metal shutters in an extraordinary architectural ballet.

We were in a trance as Ms. Hult was describing walls that slipped away to disappear behind cabinets, 20-foot ceilings, staircases with glass banisters, radiant heat in the floors and the all-white kitchens and bathrooms sculptured out of Corian.

The project, in which Mr. Ban collaborated with the New York architect Dean Maltz, is, at least for me, a fantasy of modern living: a pure and yet high-tech space that can be open to the air and views. On the inside, nothing will interrupt the smoothness of the surfaces.

“Shigeru does not like to show air-conditioning ducts,” Ms. Hult said. Come to think of it, neither do I.

But actually living up to living here was another issue. The sky-high prices were, of course, a restraint. But strangely, so were the elegance, clarity and transparency of the spaces. I’m way too messy and too much of a collector; I’d sully the perfection of the rooms. On the other hand, maybe I was just being defensive.

Of the original eight units only two are still available: Unit 6 has 4,644 square feet and is a full-floor duplex with four bedrooms, five bathrooms, a library, a dining room and five private outdoor spaces. It has a price tag of $10.25 million. Unit 7 has 1,949 square feet of space with three bedrooms, three bathrooms and three outdoor spaces for $4.1 million.

The prices take one’s breath away, but my friend was still interested. She’s worried that she could only move in with a few pieces of clothing, and that her grandchildren would have to leave their toys at home.

But maybe if all goes well, she’ll invite me over.
734 2007-12-30 Mrs. Yolman usually keeps the babies for a year or two and said it was never easy to say goodbye. “It gets easier,” she said. “If it ever gets easy, I’ll know it’s time to quit.”

There was one baby she could not give up — she adopted a boy in 1977. He was the 10th baby she had fostered. The state still asks if she will adopt more, but she feels that at 65, she is too old. Mrs. Yolman said her husband, Henry, died in 1999. He had been a manager at the Belmar Spring Water Company in Ridgewood.

As New Jersey continued its court-ordered reforms of the child-welfare system, the Department of Children and Families was able to recruit 1,280 foster families in the first half of this year, said Kate Bernyk, a department spokeswoman.

But it is especially hard to find foster mothers like Mrs. Yolman, who are willing to devote years to taking in fragile boarder babies, those born with drugs in their systems, who enter the child welfare system when they enter the world.

“The most important thing that our kids need are families who will love them, preferably their own,” said Kevin M. Ryan, the department’s commissioner. “When that’s not safe and possible, finding extraordinary people in our communities who will care for the most medically fragile children for decades is nothing short of a miracle.”

For a role model, Mrs. Yolman thinks of Agnes Morning, a foster mother from Westfield who died at 83 in 2001. She took in 215 babies during 45 years, and when she was told she could not lift more than 12 pounds, she still kept taking in newborns.

Confidentiality rules were much stricter when Mrs. Yolman began taking in babies, and the children came to her with fictitious names. Now she can meet her babies’ birth or adoptive parents, during visits with social workers.

“I think it really helps for the birth parents,” she said. “They don’t have that unknown. A lot of them have said after we meet that they’re so happy they got to meet me, because now they know who’s taking care of their baby.”

She sends her charges to their new homes with directions about their schedules, favorite foods and quirks.

“I wonder if they are doing the same thing I used to do at bedtime,” she said. “I always put the mobile on before they go to sleep, and let them hear the music.”

She carries several strollers in her Dodge Grand Caravan and goes to monthly training classes. “You’d be surprised — you think you know it all, but you never know it all.

“I try to keep up with the times,” she said. “When I started they didn’t even have car seats.”
735 2007-12-30 Drivers negotiating the serious curves nearby may never notice Galloway’s Country Kitchen Bake Shop, but the storefront business has occupied space in a crook of Harney Road in Scarsdale since 1962. The Galloways’ reputation for baking pie goes back even further — to the 1950s, when the family ran a luncheonette in Bronxville and sold its popular apple by the slice.

Today, apple pie is still the hot seller, but Patti and Bob Galloway, second-generation owners of the shop, now work with an expanded menu of baked goods, including cakes and breads, and in an expanded space.

The larger back section of the shop is devoted to prep tables and ovens; the entrance and small retail portion is room enough for a snappy turnover of not only apple pies, but also raspberry, blueberry, peach, pumpkin, mince, pecan and lemon meringue. Of the cream pies, Patti Galloway said, the most popular is chocolate, although there’s always a market for the banana, coconut and Key lime. All pies go for $9.75 or $10.

On one Saturday morning visit, counter help was busy restocking trays of other baked goods and bagging old-fashioned cake doughnuts, puffy jelly doughnuts and oversized cookies like butter almond crumb and chocolate chip, for a steady stream of customers. Many were waiting for pies or cakes (including layered, cheese and coffee) that they had already reserved.

Breads like rye, pumpernickel, challah and seven grain go for $3.85 a pound. Soft rolls — dinner, hamburger, hot dog — are also available.

The shop is open only three days. It is still a small family operation, Mrs. Galloway said, and it takes all that weekday prep time to keep the products fresh and the shelves full for those weekend customers.
736 2007-12-30 My fiancé received a letter at his office from a woman claiming to be the product of his sperm donation nearly 20 years ago. Her stated intention was to receive medical information, something he would willingly provide, but she strongly implied that she desired more, and he does not wish further contact. Was it ethical of her to obtain his name and business address? Must he reply? — name withheld, Portland, Ore.

Your fiancé is right to provide pertinent medical information to this young woman. The consequences to her of not having it could be dire. One way he might respond — while, quite reasonably, deterring further contact — is to have the clinic where he made his sperm donation give her only the medical information and nothing else. If the clinic is uncooperative or, after 20 years, no longer extant, he can proceed via some other middleman — a lawyer, for example.

There is nothing wrong with this woman’s contacting him or with her resourcefully tracking him down. She made no promise not to. It would, of course, be wrong for the clinic to assist her in that effort if it guaranteed your fiancé anonymity. Such promises can be an effective way to encourage sperm donors, who provide a service much valued both by couples having trouble conceiving and by single women eager to start a family.

While this woman may propose closer contact, your fiancé need not acquiesce. He, too, has a say in the matter. While parents have ethical obligations to their children, especially their young children, parenthood is not defined merely by a genetic connection.

UPDATE: The fiancé, now husband, instructed the clinic to provide the woman with medical information but to disclose nothing further about him. The clinic insisted that it had not given out his contact information. It warned him about the possibility of a nonrelative trying to scam a putative parent, a scheme it has encountered before.

My husband’s company provides him with a business-class airplane ticket for trips to China. His 70-year-old father is joining him on his next business trip.
737 2007-12-30 Contrast this with too much anxiety, which is mired in negative thinking and characterized by the desire to attack change. This can lead to arrogance, fear, mistakes and low morale. Or contrast it with too little anxiety, which is grounded in complacency and the belief that everything will turn out O.K., without intervention. This can result in a failure to confront hard issues, mediocre performance and untapped potential. Both too much and too little anxiety inhibit top performance and lead to deterioration and decline.

Having just enough anxiety has led me to become a better teacher and motivator. It propelled me to stretch myself to get my Ph.D. It enabled me to step outside my comfort zone and start my own business. It continually challenges me to grow. And it helps me coach senior executives as they deal with ever-changing issues in an ever-changing world.

Like all leaders, I am constantly moving back and forth between too much, too little and just enough anxiety.

Not long ago my company was working hard to keep up with a growth spurt. I was being pulled in many directions, traveling a lot, and was tired and overly impatient. Even though I am committed to healthy leadership, I was unknowingly taking out my anxiety on my team.

Fortunately, we were testing a new 360-degree performance evaluation at the time. People described me as “bold, honest and a strong leader.” But they also told me I was being “unpredictable and moody” at times. They helped me realize that I wasn’t listening to them very well and was jumping to conclusions. To be honest, I was surprised and embarrassed by the feedback but grateful for the chance to examine my actions. After a candid conversation, we got our team back on track.

I recognized that it was my resistance to my discomfort with the stresses of the business that had created too much anxiety within me. This led to increasing levels of tension and conflict between me and my team. At the same time, it was my acceptance of my discomfort in hearing people’s feedback that allowed me to have an honest conversation with them about my performance. The experience helped me make positive changes in how I look at and handle the pressures of a growing business.

IF you’ve ever taught a child to ride a bike, you know all about managing anxiety in yourself and the people around you. You know it’s up to you to help the child conquer fears. After all, you’re the adult. But you’ve got fears of your own. You want to help him become more independent, to build his self-confidence. But what if he falls? What if he gets hurt? You see the hesitation, fear, and excitement on the child’s face. But he says that he wants to do it, so you let go of the bike. That’s my idea of leadership.

Your relationship with uncertainty and anxiety has a profound effect on your life and your ability to lead people through change. It shapes how you see yourself and others, and how others see you. It influences how you think about problems and make decisions. And it’s a crucial factor in how you manage performance and interact with people.

When you manage this powerful force correctly, you create just enough anxiety inside and outside yourself. You are better able to learn, change and navigate in a complex world. You unleash vast amounts of human energy. And you lead people and companies to levels of success they’ve never reached before.
738 2007-12-30 Last week, the St. Regis Singapore became “the first new internationally branded luxury hotel to open in Singapore in 11 years,” according to its general manager, Yngvar Stray. The 20-story hotel, the first property in Southeast Asia for St. Regis Hotels and Resorts, is in the uptown Orchard Road shopping and embassy district. It adjoins the St. Regis Residences, which are still under construction.

The hotel (www.stregis.com/singapore) has 299 rooms and suites, and features a ballroom with two skylights, the first premium Remède Spa outside of the United States, and a fleet of customized Bentleys at the ready. Introductory nightly rates start at 680 Singapore dollars, about $465 at 1.49 Singapore dollars to the U.S. dollar.
739 2007-12-30 Table indicates where Democratic and Republican presidential candidates stand on various election issues; photos; table...
740 2007-12-30 EXPLORING THE SUN TEMPLE, MARCH 3, 2007 Richard Heaton, 41, at left, a government legal adviser from London, on a guided tour through a 13th-century black granite temple in Konarak in the eastern state of Orissa. ''I go to India by myself most yea...
741 2007-12-30 BEIJING -- The authorities have detained a prominent Chinese human rights advocate on suspicion of subversion, escalating a crackdown on dissent during the West's holiday season.     The police detained the advocate, Hu Jia, 34, at his home in Bei...
742 2007-12-31 I've been wondering these days why Ernest Hemingway's famous expression to the effect that there are only three real sports, auto racing, bullfighting and mountain climbing and the rest were all games, did not including boxing. Except that perhaps...
743 2007-12-31 Now that the year's end is only hours away, we can pretty safely say this is one of the weirdest bylines we've seen all year: Senator John McCain for Glamour....
744 2007-12-31 Granta is celebrating its 100th issue – raise a toast to it this new year, if you think of it – and the Guardian has provided a deft thumbnail history of the magazine's bumpy and estimable life and times. There are plenty of nifty anecdotes, m...
745 2007-12-31 Here's how the NHL can invest the hockey season with meaning for fans and media, not just at playoff time, but throughout the entire calendar....
746 2007-12-31 In what was perhaps a fitting finish to an underwhelming year, the stock market closed down modestly on Monday.

Even a small uptick in sales of existing homes, which have been falling for most of the year, provided no apparent lift to stocks as traders closed the books on a year that many were happy to put behind them. A small rally in the afternoon helped cut losses from earlier in the day by about half, but was not enough to push the market into positive territory.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index ended the year up 3.5 percent, slightly less than inflation; for the day, the index fell 10.13 points, or 0.7 percent, to 1,468.36. The Dow Jones industrial average, which closed up 6.4 percent for the year, ended the day down 101.05 points, or 0.8 percent, to 13,264.82.

“It has been a disappointing year,” concluded Tobias Levkovich, chief United States equity strategist at Citigroup. “The debt bubble burst and its ramifications were far wider than most people anticipated.”

It was also a year of stark contrasts.

While the broad market struggled under the weight of the credit crisis, which hurt financial firms, home builders and retailers, other sectors like technology, energy and materials posted stunning growth. The Nasdaq composite, which includes many technology stocks, ended the year up 9.8 percent, its best showing since 2003 when it was up 50 percent. Foreign markets, particularly those in the developing countries, did even better.
747 2007-12-31 In what was perhaps a fitting finish to an underwhelming year, the stock market closed down modestly on Monday.

Even a small uptick in sales of existing homes, which have been falling for most of the year, provided no apparent lift to stocks as traders closed the books on a year that many were happy to put behind. A small rally in the afternoon helped cut losses from earlier in the day by about half but was not enough to push the market into positive territory.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index ended the year up 3.5 percent, slightly less than inflation; for the day, the index fell 10.13 points, or 0.7 percent, to 1,468.36. The Dow Jones industrial average, which closed up 6.4 percent for the year, ended the day down 101.05 points, or 0.8 percent, to 13,264.82.

“It has been a disappointing year,” the chief United States equity strategist at Citigroup, Tobias Levkovich, said. “The debt bubble burst and its ramifications were far wider than most people anticipated.”

It was also a year of contrasts.

While the broad market struggled under the weight of the credit crisis, which hurt financial firms, home builders and retailers, other sectors like technology, energy and materials posted stunning growth. The Nasdaq composite, which includes many technology stocks, ended the year up 9.8 percent, its best showing since 2003 when it was up 50 percent. Foreign markets, particularly in the developing countries, did even better.
748 2007-12-31 But to the Edwardses, their decision simply showed a sense of purpose and a lesson learned a decade ago from crushing pain: If you can’t control life, you can at least embrace it more urgently.

“We’ve been through the worst a couple can go through,” Mr. Edwards said in an interview. “So long as there’s something you can do that’s positive, there’s a chance. As long as there’s a chance, there’s something to hold on to.”

The desire, even the need, to push forward has come to define them. “Every married couple has a history, but they have the force of this gigantic history,” said Glenn Bergenfield, a friend since law school. “They’re both fighter pilots. You keep going. The important thing is the mission, the important thing is to keep going.”

Arriving at the University of North Carolina law school in 1974, Johnny Edwards had all the upbeat confidence of a small-town football star. But he had working-class roots and had barely spent time in any city, and he was intimidated by his more worldly classmates — none more so than Elizabeth Anania, who sat a few rows in front of him in their civil-procedure class. She had “the blackest hair and fine light blue eyes,” he later wrote in his memoir.

Four years his senior, Ms. Anania was the daughter of a Navy pilot and had lived all over the United States and in Japan. Friends described the dinner table at the Anania household as the kind of intellectual forum where you learned to speak up or keep your head down. Moving every year or so had taught her to adapt fast.

“She was like the mayor of our little town,” Mr. Bergenfield recalled, organizing sports teams, fixing up couples, making friends for those too shy to do it themselves. “She was dazzling, beautiful and unafraid in class.”

She thought she had nothing in common with Mr. Edwards — “we listened to different music, we read different books,” she said. Still, Mr. Bergenfield recalled, “there was something in her mind about him. He was a little puzzling to her.”

For their first date, Mr. Edwards took her dancing at a local Holiday Inn — not, to her, a promising start. But his good-night kiss to her forehead touched her with its tenderness and restraint. She never dated anyone else again.

Thirty years after their wedding, they still have different tastes: she’s more poetry, he’s more Grisham, she’s more C-Span, he’s more ESPN. When a cable movie channel asked politicians to talk about their favorite movies in 2004, it was her idea to say “Dr. Strangelove,” Stanley Kubrick’s black comedy about nuclear holocaust, though Mr. Edwards had not seen it. But they complement one another: she obsesses over details, he sees the broad themes. He rallies a crowd, she learns the name of everyone in it.

And Mrs. Edwards, now 58, is her husband’s fiercest defender. An insomniac, she reads blogs and articles assiduously to see what people are saying about him, posting her rebuttals in the early morning hours. In campaign appearances this fall, she was still taking exception to a largely flattering profile of Mr. Edwards — headlined “The Accidental Populist” — that ran in The New Republic in January.

She plays bad cop to his good if she thinks the people working for him are not serving his best interests. His Senate staff joked that if he hated you but she loved you, you were fine, but if she hated you, no amount of love from the boss would be enough.

Mrs. Edwards plays down her role: “Somebody’s wife,” she calls herself in campaign appearances. But her popularity, and the reluctance of rival campaigns to respond to her comments because of her disease, has allowed her to say things that her husband — or any candidate — could not. Frustrated with the overwhelming news media interest in two Democratic rivals, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, she told one interviewer, “We can’t make John black, we can’t make him a woman.”

She was quoted at a luncheon sponsored by Ladies’ Home Journal saying that her choice to spend time with her children rather than practice law had made her happier than Mrs. Clinton — “I’m more joyful than she is” — then later criticized Mrs. Clinton for not being a vocal enough advocate for women.

Mr. Edwards says his wife cuts through “the fluff” in politics. “I trust her more than I trust anybody in the world,” he said. “She’s herself, and fearless. I don’t think she’s intimidated by or afraid of anything.”

For her part, Mrs. Edwards says that watching her husband as a candidate takes her back to their earliest days together: “It does sometimes remind me of when I first saw him, first listened to him talk about possibilities, and how completely charmed I was by his story and by his optimism.”

While she can be mercurial, he is grounding. “John brings a steadiness and a calm and a strength,” said Gwynn Winstead, a friend and neighbor who led the bereavement group the Edwardses attended after their son’s death. “And I don’t mean Elizabeth doesn’t have those things, but he gives them to her.”

He has immersed himself in the details of her medical care, much as he used to master the manuals of medical instruments that were at issue in his malpractice cases. Jennifer M. Palmieri, a former campaign adviser who is close to Mrs. Edwards, recalled accompanying her to a recent doctor’s appointment when her husband could not attend. As Mr. Edwards, on speakerphone, quizzed the doctor and then summed up the conclusions, Mrs. Edwards turned to Ms. Palmieri and said, “Now do you see why I don’t worry?”

Politics did not interest the two young lawyers at the start of their careers. Mr. Edwards did not even vote in some elections, and they had intended to raise children and make a good living practicing law.

They embraced parenthood with near professionalism. They held weekly meetings with Wade and Cate, two years younger. Every year they invited hundreds of friends to a Christmas party at their house in Raleigh, with Mrs. Edwards cooking and dozens of children playing upstairs.

Mr. Edwards coached soccer, and his wife assisted, making sure every player had enough time on the field. She arranged her schedule as a bankruptcy lawyer to spend more time with her children in the afternoons. She sewed Halloween costumes for them and their friends.

Mr. and Mrs. Edwards and Cate were packing to spend Easter at their beach house on the North Carolina shore. Wade, a high school junior, had driven ahead with some friends. When Mrs. Edwards saw the trooper at the door, she knew instantly something was wrong.

“Tell me he’s alive,” she pleaded. But her son was dead.

His Jeep Grand Cherokee had fishtailed, then flipped, on a wind-whipped stretch of Interstate 40. He had not been drinking or speeding, and had been wearing a seat belt. The crash killed him instantly. The boy in the car with him escaped with minor injuries.

Wade was an honor student and an athlete, recalled as the boy other parents relied on to drive their children home from parties, the kid who left the popular table to eat lunch with someone sitting alone. And in the quiet after the funeral, his parents despaired.

Mrs. Edwards collapsed in a grocery aisle at the sight of his favorite soda, so her friends took over shopping for a while. Mr. Edwards stopped running because all his routes passed places that reminded him of Wade; friends finally found a forest where father and son had never gone. Both stopped working, and Cate pushed two chairs together in her parents’ bedroom and slept there for two years, until she was 16.

Mr. and Mrs. Edwards grieved in different ways. She read the books on Wade’s senior year reading list aloud at his grave. She spent sleepless hours in online bereavement groups, seeking and offering solace. Feeling overwhelmed at restaurants, she would retreat to the restroom to run her fingers over a photograph of her boy. When she met strangers, she would tell them about him.

Mr. Edwards was quieter, friends recalled. The accident had shaken his guiding belief that if you worked hard and did things right, everything would work out. Such faith did not account for the unexpected death of a child.

Many marriages do not endure such a loss, but their ordeal drew the Edwardses closer.

“I often say two wet noodles can’t hold each other up, but John and Elizabeth were really able to grieve very personally and yet together,” Ms. Winstead said. “While each of them struggled, I don’t think their relationship ever struggled.”

Mr. Edwards said, “We clung to each other, and we got through it together.”

And together, they pushed forward, as they described it, “to parent Wade’s memory.”

They began planning a computer lab next to Wade’s high school. It seemed a fitting tribute; Wade had thought it unfair that many students did not have computers, when teachers gave extra points for papers that were typed instead of handwritten. Six months later — after hiring staff members, raising money and buying and renovating a building — the Wade Edwards Learning Lab opened.

Mr. Edwards went back to work. And, after asking Cate’s blessing to have more children, Mrs. Edwards, then 46, began giving herself hormone shots. The birth of Emma Claire Edwards, almost exactly two years after Wade’s death, would be a turning point. “That was really good for my parents, to be able to have love for another child again,” Cate said.

Mr. Edwards had just won the Democratic primary for the Senate. A few weeks before Wade’s death, the boy and his parents went to Washington because he had won a Voice of America essay contest. They had been given a tour of the White House by Mrs. Clinton and had met Senator Jesse Helms, the North Carolina Republican. Wade had remarked how good his father would be as a senator.

Friends say Mr. Edwards probably would have gone into politics even if Wade had lived. But his death provided a catalyst.

“When Wade died, I think John examined life and came to the conclusion that he wanted to try to paint with a broader brush and try to change the world not one family at a time, not one person at a time, but in bigger ways that would have more permanent and lasting effects,” said David Kirby, Mr. Edwards’s former law partner. “He sees what he does in his political career as a way to honor his son.”

While some political families try to erect barriers between their personal and public lives, the Edwardses have actively torn them down. Mr. Edwards’s Senate staff learned a cardinal rule at the couple’s house: don’t knock, just come right in. “We don’t fight, we don’t walk around naked,” Mrs. Edwards explained to one staff member. “You don’t have to worry about walking in on something.”

When Mrs. Edwards learned that her cancer had returned and was treatable but not curable, she panicked, she wrote in her memoir, “at the thought that this cancer might take him out of the race.” She recalled turning to her husband and saying, “I want to see the children, and I want you to continue the campaign.”

Dealing simultaneously with cancer, two young children (the Edwardses have taken Emma Claire, 9, and Jack, 7, on the campaign trail and are home schooling them) and a presidential candidacy could strain many marriages. But friends and relatives say the couple seem determined to go on, no matter how demanding it can be.

Ms. Palmieri, who traveled with Mrs. Edwards the week after the announcement in March, said, “The first few days, it was, we’re going to go out and fight this every day. The fifth day, it’s we have to go out and fight this every day. It’s a hard place to live when you feel the pressure to live every day to the fullest.”

This fall, an NPR interviewer asked whether Mr. Edwards would be able to focus on the presidency if his wife’s illness took a turn for the worse. “If,” Mrs. Edwards interrupted, then recalled how Mr. Edwards had responded after Wade died. “He didn’t pull the covers over his head,” she said. “He can do more than one thing at one time, even when one of the things is incredibly devastating.”

In past campaigns, Mr. Edwards declined to talk about Wade, not wanting to appear to be exploiting his son’s death for political gain. Now, toughness in tragedy has become a central theme of his candidacy. An Edwards campaign television advertisement called “30 Years” featured Mrs. Edwards speaking into the camera about her husband’s strength: “It’s unbelievably important that in our president we have someone who can stare the worst in the face, and not blink.”

Mrs. Edwards’s illness has given the campaign more purpose, friends say. “I don’t think he’s running for Elizabeth, but it’s just, you have more urgency, a little more drive,” Mr. Kirby said.

The couple was taken aback by the criticism that followed their announcement that he would stay in the race. “Maybe It’s Time for Candidate to Be a Husband,” scolded one headline. Said another: “Don’t Do It, John Edwards.”

But the Edwardses say there was never really much question about what they would do. Their son’s death had taught them that they could control only a limited number of things in life, Mrs. Edwards said. “It made it harder for people on the outside to understand, but we didn’t have to walk through the same fire.”

In the hospital room after her diagnosis, Mr. Edwards had asked his wife to marry him again. They renewed their bond on July 30, their 30th anniversary, standing in their backyard before a small group of friends and relatives.

They wrote their own vows, describing what they meant to each other, how fused their lives had become. As Mr. Edwards started to speak his, he had to stop, overwhelmed with emotion. He paused for a long time, never taking his eyes off his wife.
749 2007-12-31 The Seminoles will be missing 7 starters and 24 scholarship players. The Tallahassee Democrat reported that 16 of the 24 scholarship players who did not make the trip were tied to the academic scandal. Florida State investigated for six months and found that university staffers had assisted student-athletes and nonathletes with an Internet-based music exam.

In an interview earlier this season, Peter Tom Willis, a former Seminoles quarterback and the color commentator for the team’s radio broadcasts, said depth was the hallmark of Florida State teams between 1987 and 2000, when the Seminoles finished in the top five for 14 straight seasons. Florida State not only had superior skill, but it also had second-teamers who were good enough to push starters. But Willis said that depth was no longer apparent.

On Monday, the Seminoles will have to rely on seldom-used reserves against Kentucky, one of two teams this season to beat No. 2 Louisiana State. Among the four defensive starters who will not play against the Wildcats is cornerback Patrick Robinson, who led Florida State with six interceptions.

As Bowden worries about how his depleted defense will stop a Kentucky team that averages 36 points a game, he has supporters at the university. Florida State’s Board of Trustees is scheduled to meet Jan. 17-18 to discuss the cheating scandal.

Three of 13 trustees who were interviewed by telephone said that Florida State’s president, T. K. Wetherell, and Bowden acted appropriately in investigating the cheating, which a student reported to university officials in the spring of 2007. None of the three trustees said Bowden should be forced to step down after 32 seasons as coach.

“I think the university has been in full control of the situation,” said Leslie Pantin Jr., a Miami-based public relations executive who is on the board. “There has been nobody trying to hide anything under the rug; that’s when you get in trouble with the N.C.A.A.”

Pantin said of Bowden: “He has worked very hard to put F.S.U. on the map as a football program and has helped the university a lot and, as far as I am concerned, he has earned his stay. He can leave the day he wants to.”

Jayne M. Standley, a trustee who is a professor in the College of Music and is president of the faculty senate, said: “It is an issue that goes beyond the football team. It is athletes of many teams, and there was a thorough investigation and all were punished. This has nothing to do with Coach Bowden.”

Guilty players have been suspended for the bowl game and for at least three games in 2008, but several issues remain. The N.C.A.A. and the Atlantic Coast Conference may investigate whether Florida State used ineligible players in any games and how much influence those players had in Seminoles victories.

Also, the Florida State student handbook states that expulsion is one remedy for students caught cheating.

“I don’t know how much times have changed — I’m about to find out — but when I was going through college, if you cheated, you got kicked out, maybe suspended for a year,” the Florida State trustee Richard McFarlain said. “I’m operating without all the facts, so it is tough for me to say if that’s what should happen here. I don’t see that anything has changed.”
750 2007-12-31 The act of heroism earned Mr. Autrey an all-expense-paid trip to World, a year’s free passage on the subway and the Bronze Medallion, the city’s highest citizenship award. It also led to a media career that, at least of late, has had Mr. Autrey traveling the globe.

“I been more or less living out of a suitcase,” he said the other day, adding that he had just returned from a “TV thing” in , where, by his own account, he is in the running for ’s “Person of the Year.”

“I did back in March, and we did for a couple of weeks.” He has also visited schools and summer camps across the country, delivering speeches on the dangers of drugs and guns.

After a whirlwind promotional tour in the spring (Letterman, Ellen, CNN), he sued a lawyer and a movie agent, claiming they had signed him to an “unconscionable” contract. The suit has been resolved, Mr. Autrey’s lawyer said, clearing the way for a children’s book (“The Subway Hero”), one for grown-ups (of the same title) and two potential movie deals.

“There’s a lot stuff I haven’t yet revealed that I’ve been sitting back on quietly,” he said. “I’m just waiting for the Writers Guild to get off strike.”

No judicial roundup of the year would be complete without revisiting the florist Stamos Arakas, who was sued in October for $400,000 by a client who claimed that he had bungled the hydrangeas at her wedding. The client, Elana Glatt, charged in a lawsuit in State Supreme Court in that Mr. Arakas, owner of Posy Floral Design on East 72nd Street, had substituted wilted brown hydrangeas for the dark rust and green ones she had chosen to go with the décor at her reception.

The case has been settled, albeit under terms that Mr. Arakas’s lawyer, Scott Nicholas, declined to discuss. (Mr. Nicholas was not averse to discussing the questionable merits of reporting on the suit, which The New York Post, for one, wrote about beneath the headline, “Bridal Bloom & Doom.”)

Indeed, despite publicity about the case, Mr. Arakas said that his reputation was essentially unharmed. “The biggest concern was that we didn’t lose customers,” he said by phone last week. “Our wedding business is off a bit, but otherwise it’s fine.”

In other legal matters, there was ’s will, which caused a stir in the summer when it left Trouble, the hotelier’s dog, $12 million. There was more of a stir when it turned out that Mrs. Helmsley had been more generous with her Maltese than with her some of her family. Two of her grandchildren were cut out altogether, for what the will described as “reasons which are known to them.”

Trouble, who in subsequent accounts was said to enjoy cream cheese and long walks in the park, became another in a long line of Central Park celebrities. Her days at the Park Lane Hotel (a Helmsley property) were breathlessly discussed as were certain medical conditions pertaining to her kidneys.

These days, Trouble is enjoying her inheritance in happy anonymity, said Howard J. Rubenstein, a Helmsley family spokesman.

“The dog is being well cared for in an undisclosed location,” he said.

Trouble was not the only four-legged mammal to be featured in the media this year. Rats — in large numbers, and apparently very hungry — also made the news.

They made it most prominently at a Greenwich Village KFC/Taco Bell in February after television cameras caught perhaps two dozen of them scampering across the tables and the floor. The video was broadcast to millions on the nightly news and on the Internet, turning an otherwise anonymous restaurant on Avenue of the Americas into a perceived biohazard, which — to the dismay of its owners, one assumes — could put you off your food.

The restaurant closed and was replaced by a T-Mobile store. In the wake of its closing, the city Department of Health and Mental Hygiene released a report this spring that called for strict inspections of vermin infestations. Under the “Findings” subhead of a section titled “Analysis of General Rodent Issues” one finds the following, which is unlikely to surprise:

“The Health Department’s pest control program has found that properties within 50 feet of a restaurant are 35 percent more likely to have signs of rodents than are properties farther from restaurants. If a restaurant has been cited for rodents or poor garbage handling, nearby properties are 50 percent more likely to be infested.”

It could be argued that the year’s most fashionable bandit was James G. Madison, of Maplewood, N.J., who confessed in September to robbing (or attempting to rob) 18 banks across , wearing a different hat at each one. Mr. Madison, who was eventually known in law enforcement circles as — the police keep it simple — the Hat Bandit, pleaded guilty to making off with almost $81,000 in a four-county spree. Mr. Madison wore a cap, a hunting cap, a cap, a Longhorns cap and a variety of others.

Mr. Madison, whose first attempt at pleading guilty was put on hold by a sudden change of heart, changed it again, pleaded guilty and is now awaiting sentencing at Federal District Court in . He faces more than 100 years in prison when he goes before a judge on Jan. 11.

Heroes in the city come in many shapes and guises. Some are born, like Superman. Some are made, like . Others, like Officer Robert Fernandez, happen to be carrying a pistol in the right place at the right time.

Officer Fernandez, a guard at State Supreme Court in the , was standing at the court’s employee entrance on a Thursday in late August when a blood-spattered man walked in, handed him a loaded .38 and said: “Arrest me. I just killed someone.” It was an odd request, but Officer Fernandez hastily obliged. The man was Paulino Valenzuela, and he was a disgruntled former janitor, who, enraged at having lost his job, had just shot his supervisor at Co-op City in the Bronx.

Officer Fernandez still works at the courthouse and insisted he did nothing more that day than perform his job. “That’s what I do,” he said. “I secure the floors and the perimeter. If they need extra officers in a courtroom, I go and do that, too.”

It was not the first time, he explained, that a perpetrator tried to “ingress” on the building while carrying a weapon.

“Me myself, I had a gun collar a couple years back, a loaded .380,” he said. “Then I assisted on a stun gun. That’s the Bronx. You could write a book out there.”

For Judith Bailey, 2007 will always be reduced to a single day, July 18, when she left her job a little early to have her car towed to the Bronx. She called her auto club, and a tow truck from the One Stop Shell in soon arrived. It was not quite 4 p.m.

On their way to the Bronx, she and the driver, Gregory McCullough, talked about career goals and their shared interest in taking the Police Department entrance exam. The Triborough Bridge was jammed, so they chanced going through Manhattan. By 6 p.m., they were stalled in traffic at East 41st Street when a steam pipe burst beneath the asphalt, and truck and passengers were hurled into the air.

Five months later, Judith Bailey stills speaks warily about that day and the weeks of painful therapy that followed. Her legs and fingers hurt, although the has been healing. The hardest part is preparing her girls for school. They are 6 and 10, and she cannot dress them by herself or comb their hair.

Ms. Bailey and Mr. McCullough are two of more than a dozen people who have sued over the explosion. Their lawyer, Kenneth P. Thompson, said the cases had been consolidated under a single Brooklyn judge.

“My wish for the new year is I just want to continue living my life,” Ms. Bailey said last week. “I wish I didn’t have to go through all this stuff I’m going through. Basically, I’m still waiting for answers.”

Rose Morat is waiting for a birthday, her 102nd, which with any luck she will celebrate in another few weeks. She may stay home to celebrate with friends. She may go to the Immaculate Conception Church on Edgerton Avenue in .

In any case, there is much to be thankful for this year, the one in which she survived a mugging at the hands of a man who was less than half her age. The man, identified by the police as Jack Rhodes, 44, punched her repeatedly during the robbery in the lobby of her building in Jamaica Hills.

Mr. Rhodes was indicted on hate-crime charges that said he had singled out the elderly, and he will soon be facing trial. Ms. Morat suffered a broken cheekbone, but has been getting out of late, doing her exercises, walking with the walker, visiting friends and eating fairly well for a woman her age.

“I’m not overweight, and I do everything that I’m supposed to do,” she said. “I’ll be 102 in February and I’m not complaining, even though I could.”
751 2007-12-31 Liverpool missed a chance to close in on Arsenal, the Premier League leader, when it played Manchester City to a 0-0 tie Sunday.

Liverpool, which won the most recent of its record 18 league titles in 1990, dominated possession and chances at City of Manchester Stadium, but was unable to break down the defense, which was anchored by Richard Dunne and Micah Richards.

Liverpool has 37 points, 10 behind Arsenal and 8 behind Manchester United.

“The team was playing well and creating chances, and normally you finish by winning,” Liverpool Manager Rafa Benítez said. “They have a fantastic record, but we had our chances.

“Their keeper and the defenders were really good.”

With three minutes left, Dirk Kuyt almost forced the ball over the line from close range, but it was cleared. Yossi Benayoun had a shot blocked and deflected wide by Dunne.

“We’re at home and we want to win games at home, but you have to respect sides like Liverpool,” Dunne said. “It was a difficult game and we got the result.”
752 2007-12-31 Onstage as on television Ms. Cyrus, who turned 15 last month, comes across as a hard-working, sweet-natured troublemaker. There’s something slightly disruptive about her bright smile, accented by round cheeks that gleam like an extra pair of eyes. And she brings a welcome hint of chaos to everything she does. (Viewers looking for more insight might want to sample “Billy Ray Cyrus: Home at Last,” an uncomfortable reality series on CMT starring her father, the country singer and “Hannah Montana” co-star. Mr. Cyrus seems eager to remind viewers about his famous daughter, though she’s mainly off camera; after a while it starts to seem as if he’s name-dropping.)

She started the show as Hannah Montana, resplendent in a blond wig and outfits that changed every few songs. “Old Blue Jeans” has banal lyrics about being a “real,” regular girl (a reaction, perhaps, to the triple burden of being Miley-Miley-Hannah), but when she sang, “I’m gonna put on my old blue jeans/Gonna walk out of here into the street,” she sounded as if she were looking for a fight. And a song from the 2006 “Hannah Montana” soundtrack reduces her appeal to a pithy three-word slogan: “I Got Nerve.”

In June she released “Hannah Montana 2: Meet Miley Cyrus” (Walt Disney/Hollywood), a double album designed to show off her split personality. The Miley songs have a bit more bite, and she emerged as Miley for the second half of her show, with a black-leather biker vest on her back and chains around her waist. During “Start All Over” she kicked over the mic stand and banged her head; it worked because she seemed more giddy than angry.

Ms. Cyrus is a likable singer, happy to yell some words for emphasis and willing to rely on her backups when she’s out of breath. And the best Miley Cyrus songs give her nervy music to match her persona. She shone during “See You Again,” a zippy new-wave crush song written with and produced by Antonina Armato and Tim James, the deft duo that has helped define the sound of Disney pop. (You can also hear their work on “High School Musical 2,” and on the fizzy recent CD from Aly & AJ.)

Skeptics can find all that’s lovable about Ms. Cyrus in “East Northumberland High,” which might be her best song so far. It’s a pop-punk kiss-off, building to a pitch-perfect expression of teenage disdain: “You’re my type of guy, I guess —/if I were stuck at East Northumberland High for the rest/of my life. But people change, thank God I did.” The song also hints at the terrifying inconstancy of high school relationships. “Just because I liked you back then/Doesn’t mean I like you now,” she sings, which seems fair enough — unless, of course, you happen to be the “you.”

Those lyrics echo the TV show, which has documented the strained friendship between Miley Stewart and her kinda-sorta-ex, Jake Ryan. And some fans were probably also wondering whether the lyrics echoed Ms. Cyrus’s real life. Online, fans are trying to figure out whether she has broken up with Nick Jonas, whom she may or may not have been dating.

As it happens, Mr. Jonas is a member of the Jonas Brothers, the pop-punk trio that serves as Ms. Cyrus’s opening act. (Wait. Is Nick the one she pretended to slap after an onstage collision during “We Got the Party,” which she sang with them?) On Friday night the brothers earned plenty of screams and — maybe more important — sold plenty of merchandise, all the while looking slightly bewildered. They are three young men, ages 15 to 20, and that alone might have made them unique in this arena on this night.

Suffice it to say that Ms. Cyrus didn’t mention the raging Jonas controversy during her performance, which was mainly conceived as a G.N.O. — that’s Miley-speak for girls’ night out. Even with that leather vest Ms. Cyrus is a clean-cut figure, evoking nothing more sordid than playful mischief.

Which is exactly the point. To millions of parents unnerved by the spectacle of the Spears family, and to millions of girls still figuring out how they feel about boys, Ms. Cyrus’s defiant spirit is the key to her success. Running around the stage, flashing that mischievous smile, shaking her hair, she often seems to be delivering the same mildly rebellious but ultimately reassuring message: “No way!”

Imagine how interesting things might get when she starts saying yes.
753 2007-12-31 Macintosh owners are far more likely than PC owners to have recently paid for a music download, according to the NPD Group, a market research firm. In the third quarter of 2007, exactly half of Mac owners paid to download music at least once, while only 16 percent of PC owners did. The data was derived from an online panel of 4,915 people and weighted to reflect the United States’ online population.

In part, the disparity reflects the ways Apple Macintosh and PC owners use their computers: Mac owners are more likely to listen to music on their computers and to upload music to digital music players. The Mac is marketed as an entertainment machine, and music and video are tightly integrated into the operating system. And, of course, the iPod is an Apple product.

“The whole concept of using the Mac as an entertainment tool across the board is much more woven into the fabric than with PCs,” said Russ Crupnick, the senior entertainment industry analyst at NPD.

It does not hurt that the most popular peer-to-peer file-sharing programs, which allow for free downloading, have generally introduced Mac versions later than PC versions, if at all.
754 2007-12-31 “People get pushed into settlements,” said Fred von Lohmann, a lawyer with the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a civil liberties group. “The Oregon attorney general is showing what a real fight among equals would look like.”

In his filings, Mr. Myers claimed to be looking for a middle ground.

“Certainly it is appropriate for victims of copyright infringement to lawfully pursue statutory remedies,” Mr. Myers wrote last month. “However, that pursuit must be tempered by basic notions of privacy and due process.”

“The larger issue,” Mr. Myers said, “is whether plaintiffs’ investigative and litigation strategies are appropriate.”

Mr. Myers questioned the tactics of MediaSentry, an investigative company hired by the recording industry. He said the company seemed to use data mining techniques to obtain “private, confidential information unrelated to copyright infringement.” He added that it may have violated an Oregon criminal law requiring investigators to be licensed.

A spokeswoman for MediaSentry said it collected only information that users of peer-to-peer networks make available to anyone who cared to look. She had no comment on the licensing law.

The record companies, in an apoplectic response in court, accused the university of having “a political agenda.” They said that it was protecting people who had broken the law and that it was not entitled to raise privacy and due process arguments on behalf of its students.

“Hundreds of universities and dozens of commercial Internet service providers have responded to the exact same subpoenas,” the record companies’ lawyers wrote.

James Gibson, a law professor at the University of Richmond, said Mr. Myers’s arguments had been raised in other cases and had met with little success. Still, Professor Gibson said, “it’s significant that a public university and its state apparatus is standing up to the R.I.A.A.”

Mr. Sherman, of the recording industry association, predicted that Mr. Myers’s motion would fail and said the industry’s litigation strategy had worked well.

“The litigation program, as controversial as it is often written up to be, has been very successful in transforming public awareness,” Mr. Sherman said. “Everybody used to think this was legal. Now everybody knows it’s illegal.”

Indeed, the program seems to be expanding, and universities are being asked to play an even bigger role. In February, the association started asking universities to identify students suspected of file sharing and to pass along “prelitigation letters” to them. The association says it has provided some 4,000 such letters to more than 150 colleges and universities. The letters offer the students what they call bargain settlements of about $3,000 if they act fast, by punching in a credit card number at www.p2plawsuits.com.

“The ‘reduced’ settlement amount, in other words, represents the record companies’ savings from cutting out the middleman — our justice system,” the Electronic Frontier Foundation said in a recent report.

The universities are under no legal obligation to pass the letters along, but most do. Those that don’t typically receive subpoenas like the one issued to the University of Oregon.

At least one other public university in Oregon has cooperated with the industry. In 2004, Portland State responded to a record industry subpoena by blandly and efficiently providing the names, addresses, phone numbers and goofy e-mail addresses of two roommates. The university said it could not say which student’s computer was involved, so it fingered both of them.

“We definitely felt betrayed,” said Karen Conway, the mother of one of the roommates. “They readily turned over private information without notifying us. They placed responding to a legal subpoena far above a student’s right to privacy.”

Though her daughter Delaney was blameless, the record companies’ lawyers demanded $4,500. It was, Ms. Conway said, “basically extortion,” and the family was forced to hire a lawyer. The case against Delaney Conway was eventually dropped. Her roommate settled.

Mr. Sherman said the University of Oregon should disclose what it knew and let the legal system sort out the rest. “It’s no different than us subpoenaing Verizon,” he said.

But an institution of higher education has different aspirations and obligations than an Internet service provider, which is why Portland State’s actions are so unsettling. The University of Oregon’s efforts may be doomed, but there is something bracing about them nonetheless.

All the university is saying, after all, is that the record industry must make its case in court before the university will point a finger at one of its own.
755 2007-12-31 The government’s explanation, that Ms. Bhutto died after hitting her head as she ducked from the gunfire or was tossed by the force of the suicide blast, has been greeted with disbelief by her supporters, ordinary Pakistanis and medical experts. While some of the mystery could be cleared up by exhuming the body, it is not clear whether Ms. Bhutto’s family would give permission, such is their distrust of the government.

Mr. Minallah distributed the medical report with his open letter to the Pakistani news media and The New York Times. He said the doctor who wrote the report, Mohammad Mussadiq Khan, the principal professor of surgery at the Rawalpindi General Hospital, told him on the night of Ms. Bhutto’s death that she had died of a bullet wound.

Dr. Khan declined through Mr. Minallah to speak with a reporter on the grounds that he was an employee of a government hospital and was fearful of government reprisals if he did not support its version of events.

The medical report, prepared with six other doctors, does not specifically mention a bullet because the actual cause of the head wound was to be left to an autopsy, Mr. Minallah said. The doctors had stressed to him that “without an autopsy it is not at all possible to determine as to what had caused the injury,” he wrote.

But the chief of police in Rawalpindi, Saud Aziz, “did not agree” to the autopsy request by the doctors, Mr. Minallah said in his letter.

A former senior Pakistani police official, Wajahat Latif, who headed the Federal Investigative Agency in the early 1990s, said that in “any case of a suspected murder an autopsy is mandatory.” To waive an autopsy, Mr. Latif said, relatives were required to apply for permission.

At a news conference Sunday, Ms. Bhutto’s husband, Asif Ali Zardari, said he had declined a request for a post-mortem examination. “It was an insult to my wife, an insult to the sister of the nation, an insult to the mother of the nation,” he said. “I know their forensic reports are useless. I refuse to give them her last remains.”

The question of an autopsy has become central to the circumstances of Ms. Bhutto’s death because of conflicting versions put forward by the Pakistani government, which have stirred an already deep well of distrust of the government among Ms. Bhutto’s supporters and other Pakistanis.

On the night Ms. Bhutto was assassinated, an unidentified Interior Ministry spokesman was quoted by the official Pakistani news agency as saying that she had died of a “bullet wound in the neck by a suicide bomber.”

The next day, Brig. Javed Iqbal Cheema, the Interior Ministry spokesman, recast that version of events, saying at a news conference that Ms. Bhutto died of a wound sustained when she hit her head on a lever attached to the sun roof of the vehicle as she ducked a bullet and was thrown about by the force of the blast. “Three shots were fired but they missed her,” Brigadier Cheema said. “Then there was an explosion.”

The new images of the men who appear to have been Ms. Bhutto’s assassins showed one dressed in a sleeveless black waistcoat and rimless sunglasses, and holding aloft what appeared to be a gun. He had a short haircut and wore the kind of attire reminiscent of plainclothes intelligence officials, though Al Qaeda and other militants have also been known to dress attackers in Western-style clothing in order to disguise them.

That man is seen standing in front of another whose head is covered in a shawl in the style of Pashtun men from the Pakistan’s tribal areas, where Al Qaeda has regrouped in the past year. He is described in the newspaper Dawn as the suicide bomber.

Mr. Minallah, the hospital board member, said Ms. Bhutto’s doctors raised the likelihood of a bullet killing her in their report, when they wrote, “Two to three tiny radio-densities underneath fracture segment are observed on both projections.”

The report said the doctors tried for 41 minutes to revive her. It said “the patient was pulseless and was not breathing,” when she arrived at the hospital. “A wound was present on the right temporoparietal region, through which blood was trickling down and whitish material which looked like brain matter was visible in the wound,” it said.

Ms. Bhutto’s colleagues who were in the vehicle with her said the interior was covered in blood, and the doctors wrote that “her clothes were soaked with blood.”

An account of her death that did not involve a gunshot wound was the optimal explanation for the government, said Bruce Riedel, an expert on Pakistan at the Brookings Institution in Washington, and a former member of the National Security Council in the Clinton administration. “If there is a gunshot wound, the security was abysmal,” Mr. Riedel said. The government did not want to be exposed on its careless approach to security, he said.

On Sunday, Ms. Bhutto’s husband, Mr. Zardari, said he received a call from the Punjab home secretary on Thursday evening with a request for his permission for a post-mortem examination. He said he refused because he did not trust the government investigation to prove the cause of her death.

In ordinary circumstances, an autopsy runs counter to Islamic belief that a body should not be tampered with and should be buried as quickly as possible. But several Pakistanis said that in certain classes of Muslim society, particularly the better educated and more urban people, autopsies were not ruled out on religious grounds.

There were also provisions under Pakistani law for the exhumation of a body and a delayed post-mortem, Mr. Latif, the former senior Pakistani police official, said. In those cases, the state or a family can ask a magistrate for exhumation. The magistrate then forms a board of doctors to carry out the procedures, he said.

An international inquiry on Ms. Bhutto’s death could not be carried out without an exhumation, a difficult decision in a Muslim country, Mr. Latif said.

In response to a question at a heated news conference Saturday, Brigadier Cheema, the Interior Ministry spokesman, said the government was ready to exhume the body if the family asked.

But Ms. Bhutto’s supporters noted that the family and the party were so furious at President Musharraf, whom many of them blame for her death, that it was unlikely the Bhuttos would trust an exhumation that involved the government.

Pressure came from a number of quarters for an inquiry modeled after one carried out by the United Nations after the assassination of Rafik Hariri, a former Lebanese prime minister, in 2005.

Though the Lebanon inquiry has moved very slowly, American and British officials, as well as an increasing number of Pakistanis, said that an investigation under the United Nations or some other international effort would restore confidence in the Pakistani government.

On Sunday a conference of Ms. Bhutto’s party, the Pakistan Peoples Party, called for an inquiry led by the United Nations.

The Speaker of the House of Representatives in the United States Congress, Nancy Pelosi, said Saturday that the Bush administration should condition its future aid to Pakistan on its willingness to undertake an independent international inquiry.

David Miliband, the British foreign secretary, said Britain was ready to offer whatever help was needed.

Brigadier Cheema made clear, however, that an international inquiry was not in the cards. “At this point in time we are quite confident with the kind of progress that is going on with our inquiries,” he said Sunday.

Foreign experts did not have the expertise, he said, to deal with the peculiarities of tribal areas that are the base of the nation’s terrorist activities. “This is not just an ordinary criminal case where you only need forensic expert,” he said. “We understand the dynamics better.”
756 2007-12-31 A BAD INVESTING BET Private equity's gold has turned into dross for everyday investors this year. And hedge funds, those investment pools for the rich and, increasingly, the not so rich, have been losers for shareholders as well. Market Place.    ...