1 2012-06-01 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items Friday's selection includes a look at Apple putting aside differences with Facebook and how the two sides in the piracy debate are talking pa...
2 2012-06-01 Mitt Romney and his wife, Ann, have assets worth $83 million to $255 million....
3 2012-06-01 Credit: Dacia Idom for The New York Times
4 2012-06-01 Mitt Romney's tough rhetoric on China has engendered concern from some Republicans who believe he is too aggressive on trade policy....
5 2012-06-01 The Securities and Exchange Commission adopted measures that would enforce marketwide circuit breakers and prevent erroneous trades from entering the system....
6 2012-06-01 New York City's first rehabilitation center for wild animals opens to the public on Saturday....
7 2012-06-01 The art department at the magazine explains their creative process in designing our latest issue....
8 2012-06-01 This year's Summer Reading issue includes a look at the making of "Animal House" and new books about two legendary American musicians....
9 2012-06-01 Marian Gaborik, the Rangers' top scorer during the regular season who struggled in the playoffs, said he sustained a torn labrum late in the season....
10 2012-06-01 Via Verde, an eco-friendly project, evolved from a competition intended to encourage developers to work with architects to use the latest green concepts....
11 2012-06-01 Hugo Lindgren, the editor of The New York Times Magazine, previews the stories and innovations in this Sunday’s issue.
12 2012-06-01 Prominent Democrats keep undermining President Obama's central attack on Mitt Romney, in an unusually open show of defiance against the party's presidential nominee....
13 2012-06-01 A weak jobs report adds to global economic gloom. Social media gets intimate....
14 2012-06-01 Side Street: As a shuttered Cuban restaurant inches closer to reopening in a new spot in Manhattan, its veteran workers struggle to eke out a living....
15 2012-06-01 Up Next in Business
16 2012-06-01 The Federal Reserve is the only plausible source of significant government action to bolster the economy in the foreseeable future. Will it decide to take action?...
17 2012-06-01 Verizon Communications said on Friday that it had agreed to buy Hughes Telematics, a maker of wireless systems for vehicles, for $612 million in cash....
18 2012-06-01 The Indian government's latest fight with a foreign company may hurt Air India, analysts say....
19 2012-06-01 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
20 2012-06-01 Cavan M. Redmond, a senior executive at Pfizer, will become the chief executive of WebMD, which is under pressure to bolster its share price....
21 2012-06-01 Lawyers for New York City asked a federal judge on Thursday to dismiss dozens of lawsuits filed against the city by hundreds of people who contend they were falsely arrested during the 2004 Republican National Convention in Manhattan.

Nearly eight years ago, protesters objected that the police in New York had conducted mass arrests and held people for long periods in miserable conditions on a West Side pier. They also claimed that the city had discriminated against those arrested in connection with the convention by not simply giving summonses to people accused of minor offenses that would normally be dealt with in that manner.

Arguments on the city’s motion before Judge Richard J. Sullivan of Federal District Court in Manhattan dealt with two high-profile mass arrests. One event, organized by the War Resisters League, involved more than 200 people who were arrested near Fulton Street minutes after embarking on a sidewalk march. Later on the same day, after an impromptu street performance by marching bands, the police cordoned off a block of 16th Street just east of Union Square and arrested hundreds more.

In a memorandum, lawyers for the city said that the arrests were permissible because “where it reasonably appears to the police that a large group is engaging in unlawful conduct, the police have probable cause to arrest the entire group.” For instance, the city’s lawyers said, protesters on Fulton Street had marched on the sidewalk without a city permit and had violated directives from the police to walk two abreast, with some crossing a street against a light.

Lawyers for the plaintiffs said that no permit was required to walk on a sidewalk and added that those arrested on Fulton Street included people who had done nothing wrong.

“You cannot arrest everyone because you perceive a few people to have violated conditions you set,” Michael Spiegel, one of the protesters’ lawyers, said.
22 2012-06-01 “We’re not going to disappoint you,” Coach Rex Ryan said. “We’re going to give the ball to Shonn Greene a bunch.”

To be clear, Sparano has not explicitly told that to Greene. The way Sparano figured it, he had no reason to. Greene has heard enough about Sparano’s plans and studied enough of the new playbook to form an impression. Greene loved what he saw — a coach determined to employ an approach that leaves no room for interpretation. In constant motion during practice, Sparano points and yells and teaches. He implores his players to play physical. He demands a high tempo.

“Smoke and mirrors aren’t going to win a lot of games,” Sparano said.

The Jets realized as much during their not-so-recent past, when their so-called ground-and-pound philosophy helped them reach two consecutive A.F.C. championship games. Then, a lapsed offensive identity, exacerbated by an uneven defense and a fractured locker room, prevented them from reaching the playoffs last year. Greene topped 1,000 yards for the first time, but he, like many of his teammates, had bouts of inconsistency.

Greene said he was heartened that Sparano favored the power play, a between-the-tackles run in which a lineman, usually a guard, pulls into another inside hole as an extra blocker. It would usually feature Greene, but if called in a Wildcat formation — near the goal line, presumably — either he or Tebow would emerge as the likely beneficiary. In Miami, that play was often called for Ronnie Brown, whom Greene mentioned as someone who flourished in Sparano’s offense.

“We’re going to run that to death until someone stops us,” Greene said, “and I think that’s the type of back I am.”

In Greene, Sparano saw a running back who possessed the optimal body type for his new offense — big, bruising, physical.

“He gets his shoulders squared to the line of scrimmage, he breaks tackles and he runs at the right pad level,” Sparano said. “To me, he has all the qualities I look for.”

Sparano estimated that he had installed about 60 percent of the Jets’ new offense, though nothing yet that could be characterized as quirky or unorthodox. Nothing that incorporates Tebow as anything more than a conventional quarterback. Until then, Sanchez — or Tebow — will keep handing the ball off to Greene, over and over and over again.

Darrelle Revis declined to guarantee his presence when players report to training camp July 26, which might point to another contract holdout, his second in three years. “I don’t know if I am or if I’m not,” said Revis, who would not say whether he was satisfied with his current deal, a front-loaded four-year, $32 million contract signed after a 36-day holdout in 2010. “I’m just telling you I’ll be ready for the season.” ... Nick Mangold declined the Jets’ offer to miss part of training camp to watch his sister Holley compete in weight lifting at the London Olympics, and Rex Ryan revealed his surprise by saying that he would have left for his twin brother, Rob.
23 2012-06-01 Republicans — even a small number of them — joining with Democrats on Capitol Hill to protect women’s reproductive rights is a rare and welcome sight. Last week, Senators John McCain of Arizona, Scott Brown of Massachusetts and Susan Collins of Maine voted with nearly all the Democrats on the Armed Services Committee to lift a cruel and insulting law that requires female service members who are victims of rape or incest to pay for abortion care they receive at military facilities.

Under current law, military doctors may perform abortions only in cases of rape, incest or when the woman’s life is endangered, an outrageous restriction on a woman’s right to make her own childbearing decisions that imposes special hardship on women serving overseas. The fact that service members who are victims of rape and incest are required to pay for their medical help is further insult to women serving their country.

Civilians who work for the federal government or rely on Medicaid can use their government insurance to pay for abortions in cases of sexual assault as well as life-threatening situations. Female inmates raped in prison also receive government-financed abortion coverage. Granting women who wear the nation’s uniform lesser abortion coverage is all the more shameful given the serious problem of sexual assault among service members.

The fact that nine Republicans on the committee refused to support the measure is one more reminder of how extreme the party’s abortion politics have become. Senator Ben Nelson, a Nebraska Democrat, also voted no.

The provision, offered by Senator Jeanne Shaheen, Democrat of New Hampshire, is included in the National Defense Authorization Act. It is likely to survive when the full Senate votes. The bigger challenge will be gaining agreement with the Republican-led House, which is determined to deny all women access to abortion care. The House reauthorization lacks a comparable provision.

If the bills make it to a House-Senate conference committee, Senator McCain’s leadership will be essential. As the ranking Republican on Armed Services, and a veteran who showed enormous personal courage, he can have a large say in the negotiations that decide whether rape victims in the military are finally treated with decency.
24 2012-06-01 As communications technology has become more global, people’s tastes have become more parochial, not less. Ethan Zuckerman of the notes in The Wilson Quarterly that 95 percent of news consumed by American Internet users is published within the , and people in many other countries consume even less foreign news than we do.

The failure of convergence is most striking in . True, a tiny sliver of European society is becoming more transnational. But only 2 percent of Europeans live in a different European nation than their country of citizenship.

On the whole, European nations still have very different understandings of the rule of law and political order, different work ethics and conceptions of citizenship. If you look at the European Values Study, for example, you see stark values differences across the Continent.

Less than 40 percent of Danes believe that work is a “very important” part of their lives, compared with roughly 65 percent of the French. More than 80 percent of the Croats believe that a parent’s duty is to do what’s best for their children, even at the expense of their own well-being. Only about 55 percent of Germans agree.

The world feels different depending on what nation you’re in. According to Pew Research surveys, 73 percent of Germans think that economic conditions are good right now. In , 19 percent think that, and in it’s 6 percent.

If you look at the World Values Survey, you see that people in most Western nations are becoming more distrustful of their neighbors, not less. There are huge variations across nations, but levels of social and political trust have been declining almost everywhere except the Nordic countries. If there’s convergence, in other words, it’s in our increasing agreement that we don’t trust each other.

Today’s European economic crisis grows directly out of this segmentation. The euro crisis is not a crisis of debt. Total European debt levels are not that high. It’s a crisis of legitimacy. Debt burdens are divergent across nations, and Europeans with one set of habits and values do not want to bail out Europeans with other habits and values.

The fathers of the European project believed monetary union would bring people together. But when you jam nations with diverging values together, you only end up propelling them apart.

So we face the likelihood that will crack up. This is not an outcome to be desired. The ensuing and chaos could be horrible on both sides of the Atlantic. But we should prepare for a crackup because the underlying sense of shared identity required for the euro’s survival is not there.

Regular Europeans are losing faith in the European project. Most Europeans now believe integration has harmed their economies. In all countries except , majorities oppose giving more budgetary sovereignty, according to Pew Research surveys. The most popular major European politician is , who is holding tough on more bailouts. She has 80 percent approval in , 66 percent approval in and 76 percent approval in France.

Europe continues to suffer from the same problem that has plagued it for the past half-millennium. There are too many nations in too small a space. There are no historical trends or technocratic schemes that are altering that basic flaw.

The larger issue is, how will the world cope with its own segmentation? How do you govern amid divergence? If multilateral organizations can’t bind nations, do we simply resort to an era of regional hegemons — or chaos?

The first step, surely, is abandoning the illusions of convergence and the schemes based upon them. In 1949, Niebuhr questioned the naïve belief that history drives toward unity. He cited the book of Psalms: “He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh: the Lord shall have them in derision.”
25 2012-06-01 The Justice Department declined to comment on the Edwards case or on whether it would seek a new trial. It was also not clear whether the failed trial would reduce the chances that prosecutors would file similar campaign finance charges against ’s former governor, , who was said late last year to be facing an investigation related to accusations that he raised $250,000 from supporters to quiet a woman who had threatened to file a sexual harassment suit against him.

In an interview before the mistrial was declared, Jack Smith, who became chief of the public integrity section two years ago, noted that only a few of the unit’s recent cases happen to have attracted national media attention, and he argued that they were not representative of how it was faring.

He said the section had been successful under a renewed emphasis on litigating cases. In 2009 and 2010, the unit averaged 37 guilty pleas and 2 convictions at trial each year, according to Justice Department statistics. Last year, 47 defendants pleaded guilty and 13 were convicted at trial. So far this year, 15 have pleaded guilty and 8 have been convicted at trial.

“We’re trying more cases than ever before in the section, and winning more than ever,” Mr. Smith said. “Over all, we are effectively litigating cases and going to court more, which is what people expect our section to do. We are doing cases all around the country.”

Many of the other public integrity cases, Mr. Smith said, had a “high impact” in local communities, even if some did not attract national news attention. The successful cases included prosecutions of police officers in , City Council members in and Washington, and state lawmakers in and . The unit also won convictions of military personnel and contractors over procurement-related bribes in the war.

Created in the mid-1970s after the Watergate scandal, the section has about 30 prosecutors who travel the country to help local attorney’s offices develop complex and often politically contentious corruption cases.

While it once enjoyed an elite reputation, the unit has been rocked in recent years — especially after the collapse of its case against Mr. Stevens, then a Republican senator from Alaska, for failing to disclose gifts.

Mr. Stevens was initially convicted in 2008 and lost his bid for re-election. But the following year, after it emerged that the trial team had failed to turn over evidence that could have helped Mr. Stevens win acquittal, a judge set aside the conviction.

Seeking to get past the crisis, the Obama administration established new training procedures for prosecutors, reassigned the section’s leaders and eventually installed Mr. Smith as chief. He had helped prosecute officers in the Abner Louima police brutality case in New York and investigated war crimes for the .

Mr. Smith, seeking a fresh start for the unit, urged prosecutors to file charges or close cases in which investigations had lingered. The wave of closed cases — including the decision in August 2010 not to charge Mr. Young, another Alaska Republican — led critics to accuse the section of being gun-shy.

The Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington later sued the Justice Department to obtain documents related to the Young investigation. This spring, it obtained a draft indictment showing that investigators considered charging him with so-called honest services fraud for accepting and expecting a stream of trips, meals, outings and other items of value from lobbyists in exchange for official actions like meetings, letters and legislation.

But in June 2010, the issued a ruling in the case of Enron’s former president, Jeffrey Skilling, that sharply narrowed what counted as honest services fraud by limiting it to explicit bribes for specific acts. The Justice Department has asked Congress to enact legislation restoring a wider definition, but lawmakers have not acted on that request.

Daniel Richman, a former federal prosecutor who teaches criminal law at , said that the mixed record of the public integrity section — from the cases it did not bring to the decision to prosecute Mr. Edwards — cannot be fairly evaluated without taking into account the additional legal challenges that traditional corruption prosecutions now face.

“Prosecution of corrupt politicians, particularly on their home turf, has always been hard,” he said. “And it’s even harder after Skilling, when proving conflicts of interest is not enough; you need to prove that the guy sold his office. I expect that it will take some more time for the Justice Department to gather its forces and seek greater legislative support for its mission.”
26 2012-06-01 After a nearly flawless nine-day routine, the Dragon stuck the landing, too.

The first commercial mission to ferry supplies into space ended successfully Thursday when a cargo capsule known as the Dragon fell to earth on target in the Pacific Ocean off Mexico, NASA officials said.

Tethered to three large parachutes, the unmanned capsule, which had carried about 1,100 pounds of food, water, clothing and equipment to the International Space Station, hit the water at the relatively gentle speed of about 10 miles an hour at 8:42 a.m. local time. It came down about 560 miles west of Baja California, witnessed by technicians from the company that built and flew it, Space Exploration Technologies, or SpaceX. They were to load the capsule aboard a barge and haul it back to Long Beach, Calif.

“This really couldn’t have gone better,” Elon Musk, the chief executive of SpaceX, said at a televised news conference from the company’s headquarters in Hawthorne, Calif. “I’m overwhelmed with joy. It’s been 10 years, and to have it go so well is incredibly satisfying.”

The remote-controlled Dragon had separated from the space station about seven hours before splashdown, eventually firing rockets to slow it enough so that it would descend through the atmosphere. Before separation, the station’s astronauts loaded it with about 1,400 pounds of used equipment, experiment samples and other items.

With the success of what amounted to a trial run for the spacecraft — there were only a few minor problems during the mission, which began when the Dragon was launched atop a SpaceX rocket from Florida on May 22 — the company is now poised to begin regular supply missions, with much bigger payloads, to the space station later this year. Since the space shuttle program ended last year, the station has been resupplied by Russian and European spacecraft.

So far, SpaceX has been the most successful participant in the government’s long-term plan to shift the business of spaceflight to private enterprise, with NASA acting only as managers. The agency’s $1.6 billion contract with the company for 12 supply flights still awaits final approval, but Alan J. Lindenmoyer, NASA’s manager for commercial spaceflight, said at the news conference that he expected the approval to come quickly.

“We became your customer today,” Mr. Lindenmoyer said.

Mr. Musk said that the first regular cargo mission could come by late summer. SpaceX also hopes to win a NASA competition to ferry astronauts to the space station, using a larger rocket. And Mr. Musk talks often of an even grander goal: sending humans to Mars.
27 2012-06-01 Despite suffering from years of illegal detention, Chen Guangcheng, the Chinese activist whose daring escape began an odyssey that brought him to New York University on a fellowship, expressed optimism on Thursday about the future of legal rights in China.

In his first major public appearance since shortly after arriving in the United States nearly two weeks ago, Mr. Chen, 40, also praised Chinese leaders for allowing him to exercise his legal right to study abroad as a Chinese citizen — and not, as in the cases of most other Chinese rights activists, forcing him into exile as a dissident. “I think we can see that the central government is letting me come to the U.S. to study,” Mr. Chen said at a forum sponsored by the Council on Foreign Relations in New York. “That is unprecedented, regardless of what they did in the past. As long as they’re beginning to move in the right direction, we should affirm it.”

Mr. Chen was greeted with loud applause when, still hobbling from a foot broken during his nighttime escape from his family farmhouse in Shandong Province, he spoke to an overflow crowd sprinkled with lawyers and rights advocates. He was accompanied by Jerome A. Cohen, a New York University law professor and China legal expert who has known Mr. Chen for many years.

Asked first by Mr. Cohen about Mr. Chen’s own most pressing question, Mr. Chen replied through an interpreter, “I think that what I’m most concerned about, also the most important question, is the state of law in China. It’s still very much being trampled on.”

He recounted how, as he had written in a New York Times Op-Ed article published Wednesday, the local authorities in his village had hired people armed with ax handles to exact retribution on members of his family after his escape to Beijing, where he received refuge at the United States Embassy. After tense negotiations with the Chinese authorities, American diplomats reached a deal under which Mr. Chen, accompanied by his wife and two children, was allowed to leave for the United States.
28 2012-06-01 “It’s about as exciting as it’s been since we decided to go forward with this,” Benson said, with the ring back on his right hand, where it will stay unless Roger Goodell, the N.F.L. commissioner, confiscates it as continued retribution for the Saints’ nauseating bounty indulgences. “Like we built the championship with the Saints, that’s what we’re going to do with this team.”

However optimistic Benson’s outlook, his joy was tempting to gauge in the longtime tradition of the lottery, going back to its 1985 origin, when Patrick Ewing just happened to land with the Knicks. The result seemed too good to be true and sappy enough to be scripted.

In 2010, it was Irene Pollin — the widow of the longtime Washington owner, Abe — in the role of gleeful contestant. A year ago, the statistical gods smiled on a Cleveland franchise that had had its heart ripped out by LeBron James.

Now here was New Orleans, which began this contracted season by trading Chris Paul to the Los Angeles Lakers only to have Stern veto the deal, ending up with what could be the most impactful big man drafted since Dwight Howard in 2004.

“I was asked to approve it as the owner’s rep, and I said no,” Stern said. “And if there is any owner who doesn’t weigh in on the trade of a certain superstar, a probable Hall of Famer, show him to me.”

That was Stern’s retrospective about an hour before the results of the drawing were announced on live television. In a quiet conversation, he correctly assessed that he had done right by the Hornets, even as he infuriated the Lakers and the Houston Rockets, who had agreed to a three-team deal.

“I never wanted to be in the position of identifying players that someone didn’t want,” Stern said. “That’s not what I do for a living. But in this situation, that’s what our job was.”

The Hornets’ ultimate acquisition of the Minnesota Timberwolves’ No. 1 pick via the Los Angeles Clippers — thought to be a prize — turned out to be no better than the 10th pick. But by refusing the selection of veterans the Hornets would have received in the original deal, Stern’s assertion that they had more to gain as a stripped-down team made him look downright prescient.

The appearance of playing god, not general manager, is the more vexing issue. In doing right by the Hornets, Stern’s decision also drastically affected others, particularly Houston and both Los Angeles franchises.

Did he engineer an opportunity to pump life into the long moribund Clippers and ignite a Los Angeles rivalry that he admittedly hopes can be replicated in New York with the Knicks and the migrating Nets?

Recounting a conversation with Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana, Stern said: “I said, ‘Can’t we close this deal before the lottery, just against the possibility that this team will win it?’ But we ultimately decided that it didn’t matter because, you know, if New Orleans comes up first it’ll be because we own it and we made a deal. If the Nets come up first it’s because of Brooklyn, and if it’s Charlotte it’s because of Michael Jordan.”

Speaking of Jordan, who fronts the woebegone Bobcats franchise that had the best statistical chance of winning the lottery, he was a no-show. Hmm.

“Go ahead and say it — conspiracy theory,” Stern said with a plaintive shrug.

The notion that a man in Stern’s position would risk the fate of his beloved league, his legacy and possible criminal prosecution on the positioning of a player — or the outcome of a playoff series — has always been far-fetched. Yet in the age of the Internet and the birthers, and for people in the business of selling credibility, perception must at least be addressed.

“It’s crazy, ridiculous,” Stern said before heading for the studio to watch Benson and family take the victory walk after winning the Davis sweepstakes.

“Hard to believe,” Benson would say, after stepping away from the camera. It was a figure of speech — no more. But for some, unfortunately, it’s become an unofficial N.B.A. mantra.
29 2012-06-01 Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, said last autumn that if he were elected president, he would label China a currency manipulator on his first day in office. One of his recent television ads predicts the expected actions of Mr. Romney’s first day in office, with the narrator saying that through the day, “President Romney stands up to China on trade, and demands they play by the rules.”

Bankers and economists say that there have been some hints that foreign investors and Chinese citizens alike have been moving money out of China in recent weeks, which could have contributed to the fall in the renminbi. Money managers around the world have become more risk averse as the European and Chinese economies have deteriorated this spring, setting off a decline in the currencies of many emerging markets.

China has also been bothered by political worries this spring associated with the purge of Bo Xilai, who was suspended from the Politburo in April.

But with more than $3.3 trillion in foreign exchange reserves, combined with tight regulatory controls on the Shanghai currency market and some lingering controls on the movement of money in and out of China, Beijing still has great discretion in deciding the daily value of the renminbi. While Chinese officials have been silent about currency policy in recent weeks, few economists doubt that the recent decline in the renminbi represents anything other than an attempt to stimulate exports.

“During a difficult period of slowing growth and weak export demand, the government is taking the opportunity afforded by an apparent net outflow of capital to guide the value of the renminbi lower against the dollar to help support exports,” said Eswar S. Prasad, a former China division chief at the International Monetary Fund.

The Chinese economy is suffering this spring from the slowest fixed-asset investment in a decade, steadily declining foreign investment, weakening retail sales and a rapidly deflating real estate bubble. China could benefit considerably from the jobs and wealth that would be created by ramping up exports and supplying a larger share of the world’s demand in markets, ranging from shoes and garments to flat-panel displays and auto parts.

But a surge in Chinese exports in the middle of a global economic slowdown could also ruin the livelihoods of large numbers of workers in other developing countries that compete with China to supply the same goods.

China is also shifting its exports toward higher-technology products like telecommunications gear and power plant turbines. So an expansion in Chinese exports could also displace sizable numbers of workers in the United States, Europe and Japan who produce goods similar to those from China.

China may have another motive in allowing the renminbi to decline against the dollar over the last month: the dollar’s strength. The euro has been sliding against the dollar this spring, and because the renminbi is effectively linked to the dollar, the euro has also been weak recently against the renminbi.

This has hurt the competitiveness of Chinese exports to Europe — and China exports slightly more to Europe than it does to the United States. Even with the renminbi’s decline against the dollar in May, the renminbi still rose 5.5 percent against the euro during the month.

A few Chinese economists are even arguing that the renminbi should now be devalued further. They are largely ignored by mainstream Chinese economists but are starting to receive a warm reception from some of the more nationalistic media outlets, like The Global Times, which is affiliated with People’s Daily and is stridently critical of the West and most of China’s East Asian neighbors, with the exception of North Korea.

Lu Zhengwei, the chief economist of the Industrial Bank in Fuzhou, is among the advocates of a weaker Chinese currency. “I personally think the renminbi will be more or less stable this year, but ideally, it should depreciate by at least 3 to 5 percent,” he said in an interview last Friday.

Mr. Lu said that Chinese exports to the United States, Europe and Japan were growing more slowly than these markets’ overall imports. “Thus sluggish overseas demand is not the only reason behind the slowdown of China’s exports — the appreciation of the renminbi’s effective exchange rate also contributed to it,” he said.

But many Chinese economists are skeptical of this argument, pointing out that a weak currency will keep the country dependent on exports and will keep prices of imported goods high for China’s long-suffering consumers. A lower economic growth rate in China is inevitable because the government is clamping down on the country’s large real estate sector, and should not be offset by government assistance to exporters through the currency market, said a senior Chinese economist who insisted on anonymity because he did not want to become embroiled in the public debate in China over currency policy.
30 2012-06-01 The Fox News producer behind a provocative four-minute anti-Obama video that aired Wednesday and caused the network considerable embarrassment has found his career on ice.     The producer, Chris White, had been offered a job by CNN before the vid...
31 2012-06-01 After months of searching, WebMD has found a new chief.     WebMD, the online health company under pressure from big shareholders to bolster its share price, is naming Cavan M. Redmond, a senior executive at Pfizer, as its chief executive....
32 2012-06-02 DETROIT — Maybe the Yankees have been doing this wrong all along. Rain washed out batting practice on the field for both teams at Comerica Park on Friday, when the Yankees took a major stride toward reversing their baffling, two-month-long ineffectiveness with the bases loaded.

Or maybe they just needed to face a pitcher making his major league debut.

Derek Jeter, 20 years to the day after the Yankees made him the sixth pick in the 1992 amateur draft, drew a bases-loaded walk from the Detroit left-hander Casey Crosby in the second inning, three pitches before Curtis Granderson pulled a grand slam to right field. Granderson’s fourth career slam ended a string of 16 consecutive hitless at-bats with the bases loaded by the Yankees, who went on to win, 9-4.

“I’ve said all along our bats have not been bad,” Yankees Manager Joe Girardi said “We just haven’t gotten the hits. Eventually, that’s going to turn.”

On a blustery, misty night, the Yankees — baseball’s best-hitting team with the bases loaded in 2010 and 2011 — outslugged the only team in the American League with a worse average in such situations, .114 to their .151 when play began. The Yankees also scored eight runs with two out, topped off by Alex Rodriguez’s two-run homer in the ninth against Octavio Dotel. It was the first homer by Rodriguez since he hit two May 23 against Kansas City.

“Each guy has been up in a situation where they’ve had a chance to do some damage and haven’t come away the way they wanted to,” Granderson said. “So I think everybody’s just thinking about it and realizing, we’ve got to get some more guys on. Especially in the stadiums with the L.O.B. stat. We tend to see that L.O.B. stat go up and up and up. Hopefully was can start cutting that number down a little bit.”
33 2012-06-02 Three jurors in the federal corruption trial of former Senator John Edwards said on Friday that they believed Mr. Edwards was guilty of at least one of the campaign-finance charges against him but that the government had failed to prove its case.

“I think he definitely had some knowledge of where the money was going, especially the money from Mrs. Mellon,” said one of the jurors, Ladonna Foster, in an interview on NBC’s “Today” program. She was speaking of the heiress Rachel Mellon, who gave more than $750,000 to help Mr. Edwards.

Ms. Foster and her fellow jurors Cindy Aquaro and David Recchion, the foreman, also said that the credibility of the government’s star witness, Andrew Young, a former aide to Mr. Edwards, had been a major concern for the jurors, who deliberated for nine days.

Mr. Edwards was acquitted on one of the six charges, which was based on a $200,000 check that Mrs. Mellon had written him. But the jury remained deadlocked on the five other counts, and a mistrial was declared.

Mr. Edwards, 58, was charged with using almost $1 million in campaign funds — his lawyers contended it was personal gifts from friends — to hide a mistress and the child of that relationship while he sought the 2008 presidential nomination.
34 2012-06-02 In the article about Polish reaction to President Obama’s misstatement about a “Polish death camp,” when he meant to say “Nazi death camp in Poland,” you write that the administration seemed “blindsided” by the angry response from Polish officials (“Polish Premier Denounces Obama for Referring to a ‘Polish Death Camp,’ ” news article, May 31).

The administration should not have been surprised. Anyone who has dealt with Poland knows that there are few issues more sensitive than this one.

Poland was the first target of the Nazi military juggernaut. Many Poles fought courageously, first on the battlefield, later in the underground, against the Nazi occupation of their country. The Nazis, not the Poles, built the infamous death camps, including Auschwitz, where many Polish Catholics in addition to countless Jews were sent.

Regrettably, on a day many Poles and others had long anticipated — when Jan Karski, the brave Polish resistance fighter and underground courier, was to be awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom posthumously — the misstatement marred the event. To make matters worse, the administration’s two-sentence statement later that day expressing regret, in the name of a National Security Council spokesman, came across as bare-bones and insufficient to undo the hurt.

Poland deserves better. It may not be too late to make things right, but the longer it takes, the harder it will be.
35 2012-06-02 The Met has previously returned a Khmer item, a 10th-century Shiva head that was given to Mr. Im’s agency in 1997 at the urging of Martin Lerner, the Met’s Southeast Asian curator at the time.

Anne LeMaistre, the Unesco representative in Phnom Penh, Cambodia’s capital, said her agency is assembling a report laying out evidence that the Met statues and the Sotheby’s warrior belonged to a 12-statue Khmer empire grouping first broken up when Cambodia was destabilized by civil war.

The Met, which was given the statues by benefactors in four pieces between 1987 and 1992, said it has not been contacted by Cambodia and has no information to suggest the works were stolen. The museum acknowledged that beyond the names of the donors it has no records on the statues’ origins, despite a longstanding policy to investigate the history of donated antiquities.

“No one is concealing anything,” said Harold Holzer, the Met’s senior vice president for external affairs. “I’d like nothing better that to find more documentation.”

Mr. Holzer cautioned against using current standards for museum collecting to evaluate the propriety of acquisitions dating back more than two decades. “There were no real prevailing restrictions against accepting these works of art,” he said of the period, “especially if, by doing so, they might be protected from disappearance completely from public view and from study.”

The Met’s policy in 1992 allowed it to accept works without a detailed provenance. Such acceptance, though, was supposed to come after an effort had been made to root out the history of a piece in case it was illicit. In recent years, as countries have increasingly sought to protect their cultural heritage, the Met and other museums have adopted a stricter policy. It discourages the acceptance of antiquities like the Kneeling Attendants if they lack a documented history showing they left their country of origin before 1970.

In the wake of the Sotheby’s case Cambodian officials have formed a task force to return artifacts removed from their country and possibly held by American and other foreign museums.

Prak Sonnara, deputy director general for cultural heritage with Cambodia’s Ministry of Culture and Fine Arts, said that once the government has compiled evidence to convince the Met of the validity of its claim, he would ask for the statues back “on behalf of the people of Cambodia.”

Mr. Lerner, who was the Met’s Southeast Asian curator from 1972 to 2004, said he could not recall what was done to research the provenance of the attendant statues. He said that contacting the Cambodian government by letter of inquiry — as prescribed in rules laid down in 1971 by a former Met director, Thomas Hoving — was not an option at the time of the gifts.

“Basically there was no government to send it to at the time,” he said. “It was all in a state of disarray at the time.”

Mr. Holzer said the policy of sending such letters was discontinued years ago — he could not say exactly when — because they drew a response so infrequently.

Archaeologists believe the Kneeling Attendants stood for about 1,000 years at the Prasat Chen temple in a vast site called Koh Ker, about 200 miles northwest of Phnom Penh, said Eric Bourdonneau, who directs a project at the site overseen by the French School of Asian Studies. The Met statues, the experts say, stood a few yards from the Sotheby’s warrior, a figure known as Duryodhana.

“In my opinion, they belong to the government of Cambodia,” said Bertrand Porte, who leads the sculptural conservation efforts at the National Museum in Phnom Penh and is also head of the French School for Asian Studies there, “and should be returned and all reunited and allowed to be together just as they were for 1,000 years.”

The attendants, about four feet tall and weighing more than 200 pounds each, were put on display in 1994 when the Met opened its new Southeast Asian galleries. The heads of the two statues had been donated in 1987 and 1989, and the two torsos were given together to the museum in 1992.

Mr. Holzer said he would be surprised if Cambodia sought the return of the statues, because they have been on display for so long and a number of Cambodian officials have toured the galleries without ever raising a claim.

Three of the items — a head and both torsos — are listed as gifts from Douglas A. J. Latchford, a British citizen living in Thailand who has a vast collection of Khmer antiquities and has been knighted by the Cambodian government for returning 14th-century Khmer cultural treasures.

In a telephone interview from Bangkok, Mr. Latchford, 80, said that he came upon the three items when they were the property of Spink & Son, a London dealer known for its sales of Asian art.

“Spinks had had the pieces for some time,” Mr. Latchford said, “and they had not sold, so in honor of the curator, who was Martin Lerner, they requested that I would provide financial aid to donate them, and that’s what I did and why they are in my name.”

Mr. Latchford said that he did not know where Spink had gotten the items, that he never took possession of them, and that he does not have any documents from the transaction. He recalled spending about £10,000. A spokesman for Spink said it no longer has any of the paperwork from that era.

The family that donated the head of the other statue in 1987 also found it at Spink, a year before the gift, and said it had not come with any information on its provenance. Marsha Vargas Handley, the wife of Raymond G. Handley, one of two donors, who has since died, said the purchase price was $42,000.

Mr. Im, the director of Apsara, and Mr. Porte both said the pieces were unique treasures from a brief period in Khmer history when the seat of the empire shifted from Angkor to Koh Ker and the craft of statuary flourished.

Federal prosecutors, in arguing for the return of the Sotheby’s piece, have laid out evidence for why they believe the temple was looted after 1970, during Cambodia’s chaotic and bloody years of civil war, genocide and Vietnamese occupation. They are compiling testimony from villagers who say the temple was virtually unmolested until the 1970s, and the prosecutors noted that until the late 1960s the area lacked the roads needed to carry away large and heavy statuary.

Mr. Latchford, an author of “Adoration and Glory,” a book of Khmer antiquities, who said he has studied their history and origins for more than 40 years, noted that Khmer artifacts have been pillaged for centuries.

Asked whether he thought the three items might have been stolen more recently from Cambodia, he said: “I have no reason to believe it is true or not true. I don’t know.”
36 2012-06-02 So this week, I asked Wilshire Associates to look back 30 years to the beginning of the big bull run in stocks and figure out which of the companies in its index of more than 5,000 American enterprises had performed best over that stretch.

My guess is that you haven’t heard of half of the Top 10.

Back in 1982, would you have staked your claim on Danaher, the conglomerate that comes in at No. 3? Or might you have waited a few more years, until it was loaded up with debt courtesy of Michael Milken, the onetime junk bond king?

What about Apco Oil & Gas at No. 4? Or Precision Castparts at No. 7? Or maybe the high-tech balloons made by Raven Industries at No. 8 would have been more your taste. Ever heard of HollyFrontier at No. 10?

You get the idea. To have earned the 21 to 26 percent annualized returns (including reinvested dividends) that these companies delivered to investors over the last 30 years, you would have had to pick them out, invest enough to move the needle in your portfolio and then be smart enough to hang on.

Let’s start with selecting the stocks. The top-performing stock on the Wilshire list is Home Depot. Was anyone pointing at that company back in the early 1980s and insisting that it was going to the moon?

“Oh no,” said Arthur Blank, one of Home Depot’s founders, when I asked him this week. “We had no idea that was going to happen. When we went public in 1981, we only had eight stores.”

Indeed, the best investments are often the ones that few people have heard of, and sometimes the companies like it that way.

Take Danaher, which makes a variety of testing and dental equipment, among other things. Its founders are two brothers, Steven and Mitchell Rales, who named the company after a Montana fishing area and rarely talk to the media. Danaher executives did not return several calls for comment, and a former group president, George Koenigsaecker, said its silence had long been strategic. He helped oversee a transition to what became known as the Danaher Business System, a rigorous operating philosophy that survives to this day and wrings excess out of every part of every company it owns.

The company shunned most visitors. “There was little value to sharing this knowledge and your people with companies you might acquire and improve, as opposed to them acquiring your people and improving themselves,” said Mr. Koenigsaecker, who is the author of “Leading the Lean Enterprise Transformation” and is still a shareholder. “I should have bought more.”

As a true believer with intimate knowledge of the company even after his departure in 1992, Mr. Koenigsaecker had the willpower to hold on to the stock. But this is a hard thing to do for most individual investors.

To earn the kind of money that can change your life, you either need to avoid losers that offset your winners or make the kind of outsize bet that can yield large gains. But that’s too scary for many people when they consider the possibility of losing the initial investment.

Still, it’s tempting these days to take a chance on a can’t-miss stock, given how many people have had the equity in their homes fall or have missed out on years of saving for retirement to pay for medical bills or food and shelter during periods of extended unemployment.

Yet it’s this desperation that can lead people to buy at the wrong time and then sell in a panic during ugly stretches that high-performing stocks like Amazon (not eligible for the list since it wasn’t around in 1982) and Apple (at No. 11) often experience along the way.

That said, some people do make a lot of money this way. It’s a smaller number than you think, however, and it’s magnified by the fact that those people really like to talk about it when it happens to them.

At least they are humble enough to express their undying gratitude, given the opportunity. “It’s one of the great things, and we will always appreciate that,” said Mr. Blank, the Home Depot co-founder, who said that investors stop him almost every day to thank him. “People were able to send their kids to college or buy a second home or retire early or take care of their parents or people who were ailing, or they became more philanthropic.”

It’s because of true stories like this — and not the ones you never hear, about people who gave up on Home Depot stock during a stagnant stretch during the 1980s or bought it while it bounced around over the last decade or so — that people will keep trying. Some will get lucky, but odds are that it won’t be you and odds are that it won’t be in Facebook.

Meanwhile, despite some scary periods in 1987 and 2001 and 2008, if you bought all of the stocks in the Wilshire 5000 index 30 years ago and then hung on to them, you would have earned an annualized return of 11.3 percent through the end of this April.

Many of the people who crunch these numbers for a living, like Robert J. Waid, the Wilshire Analytics managing director who oversees its indexes, look them over and do the same thing that an increasing number of people are doing. They simply buy indexed mutual funds and treat the Facebook spectacle for what it is — an opportunity for rubbernecking and bemusement. “I haven’t owned individual stocks in 25 years,” Mr. Waid said.
37 2012-06-02 None of those outcomes had been in doubt because the founding Walton family owns almost half of the shares in Wal-Mart Stores. Thus, any company-supported initiative or director is virtually guaranteed approval. The strength of the opposition will become known when vote tallies are made public on Monday.

“The tone was really upbeat — not surprising considering recent trends and the stock price,” said David Strasser, an analyst with Janney Montgomery Scott. A bigger emphasis on the bribery allegations would have been surprising, he said. “This is as much a pep rally as anything else, and they don’t want to hurt that.”

The chairman, S. Robson Walton, known as Rob, said Wal-Mart was taking the bribery allegations “very seriously.” The board committee looking into them was “using every resource necessary to ensure a thorough and comprehensive inquiry, and has instructed the independent investigators to go where the facts lead them,” he said. He also emphasized the independent status of several board members.

Michael T. Duke, the chief executive, said that integrity was among the company’s most important values.

“We’ve all heard the recent allegations about the company,” he said. “Let me be clear: Wal-Mart is committed to compliance and integrity everywhere we operate.”

The Justice Department and Securities and Exchange Commission are investigating the bribery allegations, which involve the company’s expansion in Mexico. In April, The New York Times reported that executives in Arkansas received credible evidence about a bribery scheme, in 2005 and 2006, and elected to shut an internal investigation. Mr. Duke and a board member, H. Lee Scott, a former chief executive, both knew of the bribery issue, The Times reported.

The meeting here on Friday was a mix of Grammy concert, cabaret show and earnest segments celebrating Wal-Mart’s values and history.

Mr. Timberlake was the lively host, joking with the crowd about the early start time. “7:20? 7:20! All right. That’s how we roll at Wal-Mart,” he said, to cheers from the audience.

There was a musical number devoted to the delight of working for Wal-Mart, with a Broadway actress singing “as associates, there is nothing we can’t achieve” as dancers swirled behind her (an associate is a Wal-Mart employee).

And there were multiple homages to Sam Walton as the company’s 50th-anniversary year began.

On a set designed to look like the Bentonville street where Mr. Walton opened his first five-and-dime, his children Rob, Alice and Jim Walton reminisced about the early days of the business. Ms. Walton recalled that her father had her dust the china at the original Wal-Mart, and “Dad even paid me in china horses, usually chipped.”

The siblings, all billionaires now, discussed how their father had them fashion Hula Hoops out of plastic pipe to sell when the company sold out of standard Hula Hoops too quickly.

Still, there were occasional hints of discontentment. Rob Walton warned at one point that “we may be joined today by some folks who want to interrupt our meeting.” Security was quite intense, and there were no apparent interruptions by protesters.

And when an employee and shareholder, Jackie Goebel, presented a proposal that would require more disclosure about executive compensation, several of her remarks — particularly on stores’ understaffing and employee schedule changes — got big cheers from the crowd, which included 5,000 employees.

“We have all felt the pain, the scandal and the dishonor that this has brought to our company,” Ms. Goebel said, referring to the Mexican bribery inquiries.

At a session with analysts later on Friday, executives fielded several questions about the company’s internal investigation into possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits bribing foreign officials.

Budd Bugatch, an analyst at Raymond James, asked what executives thought the effect on the company’s reputation was.

“We will be a better company because of this,” Mr. Duke responded.

In a regulatory filing on Friday, Wal-Mart said it was the subject of several lawsuits because of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act issues raised in The New York Times article. A securities lawsuit filed in Tennessee by a pension plan there says that Wal-Mart’s behavior affected the stock price. And 11 derivative lawsuits have been filed. Wal-Mart says it does not expect a material effect on its financial condition or results of operations because of the suits.
38 2012-06-02 GENEVA — The United Nations Human Rights Council was preparing to call on Friday for an international inquiry into last week’s massacre of more than 100 Syrian civilians at Houla, challenging the assertion by Syrian authorities that it was the work of opposition gunmen.

The United States, Turkey and Qatar were among members of the Geneva-based council calling for a special session on Syria in an attempt to increase international pressure on President Bashar al-Assad as intense discussions continued between members of the Security Council in New York on how to salvage the cease-fire plan negotiated by Kofi Annan, the United Nations special envoy.

China and the Assad regime’s key ally, Russia, have resisted calls in the Security Council for tougher sanctions against Syria.

A draft of the resolution to be put to the Human Rights Council that circulated on Thursday condemned “the wanton killing of civilians by shooting at close range and by severe physical abuse by pro-regime elements.” It also condemned a “series of government artillery and tank spellings of a residential neighborhood.”

The draft would require that commission of inquiry set up by the Human Rights Council last year to “publicly identify those responsible for these atrocities and hold them to account.”

Syria has never allowed the three-member commission to enter the country and the draft resolution demands that Syrian authorities grant “full and unfettered access” to conduct its work.
39 2012-06-02 Verizon Communications said on Friday that it had agreed to buy Hughes Telematics, a maker of wireless systems for vehicles, for $612 million in cash.     Under the terms of the deal, Verizon will pay $12 a share, an exorbitant premium to Hughes' ...
40 2012-06-02 Ramon Henriquez slings a black tool bag over his shoulder every day, walks out of his basement room and trudges up and down Broadway looking for work. He calls himself a handyman, which is an understatement: he can just as easily fix a stove as fi...
41 2012-06-03 Sue Mengers, who died in October, kept mementos from clients like Barbra Streisand and other celebrities like Jack Nicholson....
42 2012-06-03 Institutional Shareholder Services is recommending that AOL investors vote for two of three board candidates named by Starboard Value, an activist hedge fund seeking to overhaul the Web company's strategy....
43 2012-06-03 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
44 2012-06-03 Tech companies are in a pitched battle for dominance of the three screens: smartphones, tablets and televisions. And the least likely competitor, Microsoft, may be the farthest along....
45 2012-06-03 But monks and laypeople from Ngaba who have fled across the Himalayas to this Indian hill town said that Kirti had been radicalized in the last four years by an occupation of the monastery that amounted to one of the harshest crackdowns in Tibet. Chinese security measures have converted the white-walled monastery, with its temples and dormitories and rows of prayer wheels, into a de facto prison, which has fueled the anger that the measures are aimed at containing.

After a five-week lull, the self-immolations picked up again last week. On May 27, two men in Lhasa, the Tibetan capital, set fire to themselves outside the Jokhang Temple, the holiest in Tibetan Buddhism. It was the first notable act of protest in Lhasa in four years. One of the men was a former Kirti monk.

On Wednesday, a mother of three burned herself to death in Ngaba, known as Aba in Chinese.

The Ngaba exiles here say the security measures imposed on the town and the monastery have been extreme, even by the standards of Chinese control in Tibet. In 2008, during a Tibet-wide uprising, security forces shot protesters in Ngaba with live ammunition, killing at least 10 civilians, including one monk, according to reports by advocacy groups and photographs of corpses that had been brought to Kirti. It was one of the most violent events of the uprising, and anger and alienation set in among local Tibetans. Officials tightened security.

In February 2009, in the town’s market area, a young man from Kirti self-immolated, the first monk to do so in modern Tibetan history. The monk, named Tapey, survived, and officials stepped up surveillance of Kirti. In March 2011, the next self-immolation occurred: Phuntsog, 20, set fire to himself on the same street in the market, which locals now call Hero’s Road.

Local Tibetans say the heavy-handed reaction of the authorities in the six months after that event backfired, encouraging the self-immolations to continue. Chinese officials ordered the People’s Armed Police to surround the monastery; built a wall to cut off a rear entrance; banned all religious activities; smashed photographs of the Dalai Lama, the Tibetan spiritual leader; forced monks to attend patriotic re-education sessions; cut off Internet access; and barred pilgrims from entering. They also took away 300 monks in a nighttime raid; many of them have not returned.

Kanyag Tsering, a Kirti monk in exile who keeps in touch with colleagues in Ngaba, said about 300 officials now lived inside the monastery to keep watch. Last summer, at the height of the patriotic re-education campaign, there were perhaps twice that many.

Another Kirti monk, Lobsang, said the paramilitary police had set up four camps around the monastery.

“The most uncomfortable thing was seeing soldiers pointing guns at you but not shooting at you,” said Lobsang, who recently arrived here and agreed to speak on the condition that only his first name be used. “This has been daily life since 2008. For myself, I’d rather get shot than to have them pointing the guns at me every day, 24 hours a day.”

He said there did not appear to be any coordination or organized plan for self-immolation.

“I think those who self-immolated didn’t have an official agreement, but there was spiritual solidarity between people,” he said. “The energy of the Tibetan people is totally linked like a bracelet of prayer beads. You cannot find the end and the beginning because it’s a circle.”

Chinese officials have condemned some of the self-immolators as “terrorists” and blamed the Dalai Lama for inciting the acts, a charge he has denied.

Researchers for Human Rights Watch attribute much of the frustration in Ngaba to the smothering security and “provocative policing techniques.” The group found that per capita government spending on security in Ngaba from 2002 to 2006 was three times the average for non-Tibetan parts of Sichuan. There was a rapid increase after 2006, and by 2009 it was five times that of non-Tibetan areas.

Top officials have signaled their approval of the security clampdown. In February, the party chief of Ngaba, Shi Jun, was promoted to lead Sichuan’s public security bureau.

A former monk with whom Lobsang had close ties, Rinzen Dorje, was one of those who felt suffocated by the security. He left the Kirti Monastery in 2010 to herd animals and do manual labor. He set fire to himself at a primary school one evening in February. Lobsang last saw him in July.

“He told me he felt very uncomfortable and had headaches when he saw the atmosphere in Ngaba town,” Lobsang said.

That was also the case with Tapey, the first monk to self-immolate, Lobsang said. Two days before his self-immolation in 2009, Tapey was walking among military trucks and kicking them.

“He was intentionally trying to provoke the soldiers,” Lobsang said. “I asked myself, ‘What happened? What’s wrong with him?’ That day he was really different, and in his eyes I could see how he hated the military.”

On Feb. 27, 2009, a high lama told a gathering of monks that Kirti had to comply with official orders to cancel an important prayer ceremony scheduled for that day. Tapey set himself on fire in the marketplace half an hour later, having left a note saying he would kill himself if the government banned the ceremony, Lobsang said.

“The people very much respected his motivation and the price he paid for freedom,” Lobsang said.

The next monk to self-immolate, Phuntsog, never appeared to be in a dark mood, said Lobsang, who had studied with him. Phunstog liked to joke and play around with friends, often showing off his biceps by flexing.

“I never heard any political agenda expressed by Phuntsog,” Lobsang said. “The action he took is unimaginable to me. But, of course, we can now understand how many things he must have hid inside.”

After that self-immolation, the authorities started an intense re-education campaign and locked down the monastery for half a year. That led to the radicalization of more monks. One of the tensest moments came in April 2011, when officials sought to detain monks who were not from Ngaba. Residents of the town tried to block the police, and two elderly Tibetans were beaten to death, according to the International Campaign for Tibet. Officers took away 300 monks.

In August, a court sentenced three monks to more than a decade in prison, two of them for being involved in Phuntsog’s self-immolation and one, an uncle of Phuntsog’s, for refusing to turn his body over to the police at the time.

One day in September, after officials had eased some restrictions on Kirti, two monks raced through the marketplace at noon, their robes aflame. One held up the banned Tibetan snow lion flag. Before collapsing, one of the monks, Lobsang Kelsang, a younger brother of Phuntsog’s, shouted, “We are the accused.”

The event was described by a witness who arrived in Dharamsala this spring. “Because of unfair judgments, oppressive policies and discrimination, because of all those things, the Tibetan people feel isolated,” he said. “The self-immolations are not the end. This is only the beginning.”
46 2012-06-03 Dr. Alisse Katherine Hauspurg and Dr. Adam James Janicki were married Saturday at Saltwater Farm Vineyard in Stonington, Conn. The ceremony was led by Jim R. Moss, an uncle of the bridegroom, who became a Universal Life Minister for the event.

The bride, 26, and the bridegroom, 25, met at the University of Pennsylvania, from which each graduated magna cum laude.

The bride will continue to use her name professionally. Later this month, she is to begin a residency in obstetrics and gynecology at Women and Infants Hospital in Providence, R.I. In May she received a medical degree from Yale.

She is a daughter of Janet K. Hauspurg and John R. Hauspurg of Bridgewater, N.J.

The bridegroom received a medical degree from Tufts in May, and later this month he is to begin a residency in emergency medicine at Rhode Island Hospital in Providence.

He is the son of Cheryl M. Janicki of South Brunswick, N.J., and the late Ortwin N. Janicki.
47 2012-06-03 Alyssa Barrie Weiss and Guy Billauer were married Thursday evening at the Mount Zion Hotel in Jerusalem. Rabbi Ezra Amichai performed the ceremony.

The bride, 35, is keeping her name. She is an advertising director for the media group of The New York Times Company in New York, and is pursuing an M.B.A. at Fordham. She graduated from New York University.

She is the daughter of Sherry L. Jacobson of New York and Michael B. Weiss of Edgewater, N.J. She is the stepdaughter of Eugene I. Zuriff of New York. Her father was the president of MBW Advertising, a New York agency. Her mother is the executive vice president of TMP Worldwide, a New York advertising agency, and is a co-president of the board of the Ovarian Cancer Research Fund. The bride’s stepfather retired as the president of the Smith and Wollensky restaurant group in New York.

The bridegroom, 37, is the regional specialist for the former Soviet Union at the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee in New York. He helps establish and maintain connections with Jewish organizations and communities in countries that used to be part of the Soviet Union. He graduated from George Mason University and received a law degree from Catholic University in Washington.

He is a son of Tamar Billauer and Samuel Billauer of Petach Tikva, Israel. His mother retired as the head of the industrial corporate department at Migdal, the Israeli insurance company; she worked in its Tel Aviv office. His father retired as the ombudsman of the Tel Aviv region at Bezeq, the Israeli telecommunications company.
48 2012-06-03 Alanna Kathleen McManus and Craig Adam Weiss were married Saturday at St. John the Evangelist Roman Catholic Church in Lambertville, N.J. The Rev. Robert B. Kolakowski, a Roman Catholic priest and the church’s pastor, performed the ceremony.

The bride, 28, and the bridegroom, 30, met at the University of Richmond, from which he graduated cum laude and she received bachelor’s degrees in leadership studies and political science.

Mrs. Weiss works in investor relations for Harvey Partners, a hedge fund in New York, where she advises potential clients on marketing strategies.

She is a daughter of Janice G. McManus and George D. McManus of New York. The bride’s father is a vice president at Goldman Sachs in New York, where he sells bonds.

Mr. Weiss is the managing director of a family owned commercial real estate development firm in Melville, N.Y. His father, Teddy D. Weiss, is the chief executive of the company, which manages and develops office space on Long Island.

The bridegroom’s mother, Pamela R. Weiss, is an academic intervention instructor at West Side School in Syosset, N.Y. The bridegroom’s parents live in Lloyd Harbor, N.Y.
49 2012-06-03 Emma Morton Zisser, a daughter of Marsha Morton and Michael H. Zisser of Pelham, N.Y., was married Saturday evening in Manhattan to Jason Morton Bloch, a son of Mary and Thomas Bloch of Kansas City, Mo. Michael J. Clain, a friend of the couple who became a Universal Life minister for the event, officiated at the Manhattan Penthouse, an event space.

The bride, 29, is a client relationship manager at American Express in Manhattan. She graduated from Bates College in Lewiston, Me., and received an M.B.A. from New York University.

Her father is the chief executive of the University Settlement House and the Door, nonprofit organizations that provides counseling, day care and other services in Manhattan and Brooklyn. Her mother is a professor of art history at Pratt Institute in Brooklyn.

The bridegroom, 28, is a pricing manager at H&R Block in Manhattan. He graduated from Middlebury College.

His father retired as the president and chief executive of H&R Block, which has its headquarters in Kansas City, Mo. He is also a founder of University Academy, an elementary charter school for poor children, also in Kansas City. The bridegroom is a grandson of Henry Bloch, who lives in Mission Hills, Kan., and is a founder of H&R Block.
50 2012-06-03 Oil has also brought its share of pitfalls for the fledgling democracy, fostering corruption and patronage, and aggravating tensions with the Kurdish minority in the north over the division of profits, a festering issue that could end up fracturing the country.

The Iraqi government says it can add an additional 400,000 barrels a day of production by next year, and it has announced a goal of producing 10 million barrels a day by 2017, which would put it in a league with Saudi Arabia.

Few independent analysts say they believe the larger goal is realistic, but oil company executives have been impressed by Iraq’s progress and ambition.

“What the government is embarking on and the increase in production they are looking for under all of these contracts is unique in the world,” said Michael Townshend, president of Iraq. But, he cautioned, “Nobody has yet managed to increase oil production in their country to the extent Iraq is planning to. It’s hugely ambitious, and it will take a lot of things to work correctly.”

The country’s improving oil fortunes are well timed to compensate for Iran’s declining oil output, which according to OPEC fell by 12 percent in the first three months of the year as , and other Asian nations have gradually cut purchases under pressure from the and .

With little if any progress achieved so far in negotiations between the West and Iran over its , and Iran’s nuclear chief reaffirming last weekend that the country would continue producing higher-grade uranium, Western sanctions are set to tighten in July.

Iraq’s role in ameliorating the effects of those sanctions in the oil market could create tensions with Iran, a strong backer and ally of the Iraqi government. But oil experts say exports are too valuable for Iraq to allow its relationship with Iran to impede production.

The recovery of Iraq’s oil industry after decades of wars, sanctions and neglect began in 2009 and 2010 as security improved and Baghdad signed a series of technical service contracts with foreign companies like Exxon Mobil, BP, China National Petroleum Corporation and ENI of . The companies brought in modern seismic equipment and modern well recovery techniques to resuscitate old fields.

The deals have been only modestly profitable for the foreign companies, but foreign executives express cautious optimism that Iraq can eventually produce oil in amounts that could put it in an elite group of exporters with Saudi Arabia and sometime in the 2020s.

Iraq produces around three million barrels a day, and few analysts believe it can reach its goal of 10 million barrels a day by 2017, a target Baghdad recently reduced from a previous estimate of 12 million barrels a day by that year. But Hans Nijkamp, ’s Iraq country chairman, estimates that Iraq could produce 6 million to 10 million barrels a day by early next decade, “which is really substantial.”

International oil executives say the government bureaucracy is still slow and poorly coordinated in building new port and pipeline infrastructure to get oil to the tankers from the fields. The political battle over divvying up profits has prevented the enactment of a national oil law, meaning that the companies need to follow myriad regulations, some of which date back to the . Electrical shortages are forcing politicians to choose between serving the oil companies or restive civilian populations that want more reliable utility service.

To increase output, the country will need to develop a huge water project to filter and pump seawater into old oil fields to increase the pressure required to coax crude out of the ground. Planning has begun, but the project is progressing slowly.

Iraq will also need to negotiate a sizable export quota within OPEC to accommodate its increasing potential, a nettlesome process that could produce tensions with Saudi Arabia and Iran.

Some of the problems were on display at last week’s oil and gas auction, the country’s fourth postwar bidding round, where only 3 contracts were awarded out of 12 up for bid.

The auction, in an auditorium at the Ministry of Oil, had the trappings of a militarized movie premiere, with red carpets, velvet ropes, hordes of photographers and a white-uniformed honor guard carrying Kalashnikov rifles fixed with bayonets. The proceedings were carried live on state television. An elevator- rendition of ’s played over and over.

The room was packed with diplomats, politicians and foreign oil executives, but few actual bidders.

“There are three minutes left and it seems like no one wants to bid,” Abdul Mahdy al-Ameedi, the ministry official overseeing the auction, said at one point.

The disappointing auction was less a reflection of lack of interest in Iraq’s energy sector than of the tough terms demanded by the government, the location of some of the fields in dangerous and remote regions of the country, and the fact that many of the blocks up for bid were for , which is less attractive to foreign companies than oil.

Iraq also used the auction to slap Exxon Mobil’s hand for signing production sharing contracts for 850,000 acres in the Kurdistan region without getting permission from the central government, denying the company the right to bid.

But at the same time, Iraq has not touched Exxon Mobil’s oil contracts in the south, a sign of pragmatism, or perhaps , international oil analysts said.

Exxon Mobil has by far the largest stake of any American company in Iraq, but most of the major players are European and Asian, like Lukoil and Gazprom from Russia, and Chinese companies like China National Petroleum and China National Offshore Oil Corporation.

Despite the uncertainties, the foreign companies say they are staying.

“We are in Iraq because we think there is big potential, huge production growth,” said Claudio Descalzi, chief operating officer for exploration and production at ENI, the Italian oil giant. “In the future, things can only get better.”
51 2012-06-03 Mark D. Luschini, chief investment strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott, agreed. “I still think that on a relative basis, the defensive quality of U.S. stocks makes them attractive,” he said, adding that domestic shares have at least two other things going for them.

First, “they’re backed by an economy that, while hardly vigorous, is at least showing signs of sustainability,” Mr. Luschini said. Much of the rest of the developed world, of course, cannot make such a claim right now.

Indeed, while gross domestic product in the United States is expected to expand just 2.2 percent this year, growth is expected to accelerate to 2.4 percent next year and 3.4 percent in 2014, according to IHS Global Insight. Many parts of Europe, meanwhile, are already in recession, and the G.D.P. in the euro zone isn’t expected to reach a 2 percent annual growth pace until 2016. And while growth in Japan is running slightly ahead of the United States this year, the Japanese economy is expected to decelerate for the remainder of the decade.

Second, the domestic market also benefits from strong corporate balance sheets, relative to those from overseas. Companies in the S.& P. 500, for instance, are often sitting on record amounts of cash, and are generating record profits, with better-than-expected first-quarter results.

To be sure, global uncertainties may be weighing on the job market. “Corporations are profitable and have billions in cash, but the lack of visibility in their operations due to what’s going on globally is making them reluctant to hire,” Mr. Luschini said. And if Europe’s troubles worsen drastically, stock markets around the world will likely fall in lock step, which was evident last week.

“UNFORTUNATELY, in a true crisis, it’s hard for individual equity markets to differentiate themselves as safe havens,” Mr. Richardson said. “But in an environment marked by less panic, there is the potential for the U.S. market to decouple somewhat from the direction of other equities.”

Mr. Richardson sees at least two big fundamental factors that are likely to drive investor interest to the United States. First, “there’s the state of U.S. banks,” he said, noting that they have done a much better job of recapitalizing than their European counterparts after the 2008 financial crisis.

Moreover, he said, “the housing market here continues to show strong signs of bottoming, which would be very encouraging since housing drives so much of the other parts of the economy.”

At the same time, a couple of side effects from the slowdown in China and Europe could also benefit domestic equities, market strategists say.

For starters, crude oil prices have fallen in recent weeks, partly because of renewed worry about the global recovery. After peaking above $108 a barrel in March, West Texas Intermediate crude oil fell to $83 last week. “That should help keep the consumer in the game,” Mr. Richardson said.

The woes in Europe and China have also added to investor fears, which, in a contrarian way, may be a positive sign for domestic stocks, said Doug Ramsey, Leuthold’s chief investment officer. He noted that the Yale Crash Confidence index recently fell to an unusually low reading of around 25, down from 37 a year ago and 57 in 2007, before the financial crisis. The decline would indicate that a large number of institutional investors fear that stocks could suffer a big setback in the coming six months.

Mr. Ramsey pointed out that the index fell below a reading of 25 in 1990, 1998, 2002 and 2009 — which marked four key stock market lows that led to major rallies.

Of course, it’s possible that the current lack of market confidence is actually well grounded. But as investors learned in 2008, as bad as things get for domestic stocks, in a panic it can be much worse elsewhere around the globe.
52 2012-06-03 But monks and laypeople from Ngaba who have fled across the Himalayas to this Indian hill town said that Kirti had been radicalized in the last four years by an occupation of the monastery that amounted to one of the harshest crackdowns in Tibet. Chinese security measures have converted the white-walled monastery, with its temples and dormitories and rows of prayer wheels, into a de facto prison, which has fueled the anger that the measures are aimed at containing.

After a five-week lull, the self-immolations picked up again last week. On May 27, two men in Lhasa, the Tibetan capital, set fire to themselves outside the Jokhang Temple, the holiest in Tibetan Buddhism. It was the first notable act of protest in Lhasa in four years. One of the men was a former Kirti monk.

On Wednesday, a mother of three burned herself to death in Ngaba, known as Aba in Chinese.

The Ngaba exiles here say the security measures imposed on the town and the monastery have been extreme, even by the standards of Chinese control in Tibet. In 2008, during a Tibet-wide uprising, security forces shot protesters in Ngaba with live ammunition, killing at least 10 civilians, including one monk, according to reports by advocacy groups and photographs of corpses that had been brought to Kirti. It was one of the most violent events of the uprising, and anger and alienation set in among local Tibetans. Officials tightened security.

In February 2009, in the town’s market area, a young man from Kirti self-immolated, the first monk to do so in modern Tibetan history. The monk, named Tapey, survived, and officials stepped up surveillance of Kirti. In March 2011, the next self-immolation occurred: Phuntsog, 20, set fire to himself on the same street in the market, which locals now call Hero’s Road.

Local Tibetans say the heavy-handed reaction of the authorities in the six months after that event backfired, encouraging the self-immolations to continue. Chinese officials ordered the People’s Armed Police to surround the monastery; built a wall to cut off a rear entrance; banned all religious activities; smashed photographs of the Dalai Lama, the Tibetan spiritual leader; forced monks to attend patriotic re-education sessions; cut off Internet access; and barred pilgrims from entering. They also took away 300 monks in a nighttime raid; many of them have not returned.

Kanyag Tsering, a Kirti monk in exile who keeps in touch with colleagues in Ngaba, said about 300 officials now lived inside the monastery to keep watch. Last summer, at the height of the patriotic re-education campaign, there were perhaps twice that many.

Another Kirti monk, Lobsang, said the paramilitary police had set up four camps around the monastery.

“The most uncomfortable thing was seeing soldiers pointing guns at you but not shooting at you,” said Lobsang, who recently arrived here and agreed to speak on the condition that only his first name be used. “This has been daily life since 2008. For myself, I’d rather get shot than to have them pointing the guns at me every day, 24 hours a day.”

He said there did not appear to be any coordination or organized plan for self-immolation.

“I think those who self-immolated didn’t have an official agreement, but there was spiritual solidarity between people,” he said. “The energy of the Tibetan people is totally linked like a bracelet of prayer beads. You cannot find the end and the beginning because it’s a circle.”

Chinese officials have condemned some of the self-immolators as “terrorists” and blamed the Dalai Lama for inciting the acts, a charge he has denied.

Researchers for Human Rights Watch attribute much of the frustration in Ngaba to the smothering security and “provocative policing techniques.” The group found that per capita government spending on security in Ngaba from 2002 to 2006 was three times the average for non-Tibetan parts of Sichuan. There was a rapid increase after 2006, and by 2009 it was five times that of non-Tibetan areas.

Top officials have signaled their approval of the security clampdown. In February, the party chief of Ngaba, Shi Jun, was promoted to lead Sichuan’s public security bureau.

A former monk with whom Lobsang had close ties, Rinzen Dorje, was one of those who felt suffocated by the security. He left the Kirti Monastery in 2010 to herd animals and do manual labor. He set fire to himself at a primary school one evening in February. Lobsang last saw him in July.

“He told me he felt very uncomfortable and had headaches when he saw the atmosphere in Ngaba town,” Lobsang said.

That was also the case with Tapey, the first monk to self-immolate, Lobsang said. Two days before his self-immolation in 2009, Tapey was walking among military trucks and kicking them.

“He was intentionally trying to provoke the soldiers,” Lobsang said. “I asked myself, ‘What happened? What’s wrong with him?’ That day he was really different, and in his eyes I could see how he hated the military.”

On Feb. 27, 2009, a high lama told a gathering of monks that Kirti had to comply with official orders to cancel an important prayer ceremony scheduled for that day. Tapey set himself on fire in the marketplace half an hour later, having left a note saying he would kill himself if the government banned the ceremony, Lobsang said.

“The people very much respected his motivation and the price he paid for freedom,” Lobsang said.

The next monk to self-immolate, Phuntsog, never appeared to be in a dark mood, said Lobsang, who had studied with him. Phunstog liked to joke and play around with friends, often showing off his biceps by flexing.

“I never heard any political agenda expressed by Phuntsog,” Lobsang said. “The action he took is unimaginable to me. But, of course, we can now understand how many things he must have hid inside.”

After that self-immolation, the authorities started an intense re-education campaign and locked down the monastery for half a year. That led to the radicalization of more monks. One of the tensest moments came in April 2011, when officials sought to detain monks who were not from Ngaba. Residents of the town tried to block the police, and two elderly Tibetans were beaten to death, according to the International Campaign for Tibet. Officers took away 300 monks.

In August, a court sentenced three monks to more than a decade in prison, two of them for being involved in Phuntsog’s self-immolation and one, an uncle of Phuntsog’s, for refusing to turn his body over to the police at the time.

One day in September, after officials had eased some restrictions on Kirti, two monks raced through the marketplace at noon, their robes aflame. One held up the banned Tibetan snow lion flag. Before collapsing, one of the monks, Lobsang Kelsang, a younger brother of Phuntsog’s, shouted, “We are the accused.”

The event was described by a witness who arrived in Dharamsala this spring. “Because of unfair judgments, oppressive policies and discrimination, because of all those things, the Tibetan people feel isolated,” he said. “The self-immolations are not the end. This is only the beginning.”
53 2012-06-03 The new rules are intended to ensure that the fees in 401(k) plans are reasonable. The Labor Department says it hopes that the disclosures will help investors compare various investment offerings and see how costs eat away at account balances.

Two main fees are extracted from 401(k) plans: investment management fees and administrative costs. Under the new rules, companies administering 401(k)’s — often mutual fund concerns — must provide employers who sponsor the plans with details of all fees associated with running the accounts. For example, fees for general plan administrative services, like legal work, accounting and recordkeeping, will have to be disclosed.

Plan sponsors are supposed to use this information to analyze whether the fees in their plans are too high. But they won’t have to pass along all of this data to participants. Instead, the sponsors will be required to calculate expense ratios for the investments offered in a plan, showing participants the charges per $1,000 invested.

According to a Deloitte/Investment Company Institute study released last November, the median 401(k) expense ratio was 0.78 percent. But the range of ratios is wide, the report noted: from 0.28 percent to 1.38 percent.

Expense ratios on 401(k) plans are supposed to be lower than those on investments offered to individuals. That’s because the combined assets in many retirement plans should be large enough to qualify for lower-cost institutional funds. In general, the greater the assets held in a plan, the lower the fees.

Brent L. Glading, founder of the Glading Group, a consulting firm that analyzes 401(k)’s, says he welcomes the disclosure requirements but fears that the new rules will confuse plan participants. Employers will have to work much harder to educate participants about costs and benefits of various fund offerings, he says.

Unfortunately, he adds, employers are not up to the task. “The disclosure is going to make index funds look better in some cases, and that’s fine,” he says. “But you will find many active managers with fees that are justifiable because their performance outperforms the index. It is clearly going to be the responsibility of the plan sponsor to help participants understand what it all means, and I am not sure they are prepared for it.”

If plan sponsors are to help their employees use the disclosures to make better investment choices, they have a lot of boning up to do. A study issued by the Government Accountability Office in April found that half of the 1,000 sponsors surveyed either did not know if they or their participants paid investment management fees or believed, incorrectly, that such fees were waived by service providers.

Investment management fees are a rather large cost to be unsure about. According to the Deloitte/I.C.I. study, these fees make up 84 percent of total 401(k) expenses.

Such ignorance might be understandable for sponsors of small plans, but large plan overseers can also be clueless. According to the G.A.O. study, 31 percent of large plan sponsors didn’t know whether they or their participants paid investment management fees.

The report also said 29 percent of plan sponsors did not know if their plans paid for trustee, legal or audit services.

If plan sponsors don’t even know that fees are levied, they are surely not putting any effort into aggressively managing the costs that their employees are paying in their 401(k)’s. The G.A.O. study confirms that.

While almost half the plans surveyed by the G.A.O. reported that they did not know if they or their participants paid transaction costs, 95 percent of those said they had not even asked their service providers for information regarding these costs.

When sponsors do receive an accounting of various costs, they rarely use it to push for lower fees, the G.A.O. found. For example, the Labor Department requires sponsors to identify individuals receiving at least $5,000 in compensation for services rendered to a 401(k) plan. But the G.A.O. noted that 89 percent of the sponsors surveyed said they did not use the information to compare fees with those charged by other companies. And 83 percent said they didn’t use the data to negotiate lower fees from current providers.

“The reality is, most of the fiduciaries of these plans don’t want to do what they are supposed to do,” Mr. Glading said. “They say, ‘It doesn’t save money for the company, so why do I care?’ There has to be a groundswell from the employees.”

PERHAPS that will be the main benefit of the new disclosures. It may just be that when workers begin to see how investment fees and administrative costs are ravaging their retirement savings, they’ll start prodding the managers overseeing these plans to behave like the fiduciaries they are.

The fact is, fund companies and other providers of 401(k)s are getting rich off these plans. And in this zero-sum game, future retirees are definitely the poorer for it.
54 2012-06-03 One morning, I employed the FF’s heroic power plant on a preschool run, my 2-year-old strapped into a car seat in the back. The FF was very likely the only vehicle in the school parking lot that day with a quoted top speed of 208 m.p.h. Does FF stand for “family fun”?

Actually FF stands for “Ferrari four,” a reference to the four seats and four-wheel drive. Which is actually all-wheel drive, under the usual definition, at least up until about 130 m.p.h., when it becomes rear-wheel drive. The power distribution gets quite complicated, but if you like transmissions you’ll love the FF, because it has two of them.

Like the 458 Italia, the FF’s electronic aggressiveness is controlled via the manettino, a small red switch on the steering wheel. Unlike the 458, the FF’s manettino has no race mode. Which is too bad, because on the 458, “race” sets the active exhaust to its most vocal setting, and you want to hear the FF’s song as often as possible. Conventional V-12 engines are renowned for soothing, buttery power, but the FF’s flat-plane crankshaft imbues the exhaust note with a hard-edge malevolent bark. If the FF’s 12 pistons were a jury, they’d never reach a verdict.

To its everlasting credit, Ferrari programs its engine-management electronics to let you rev the engine in neutral. This sounds juvenile and pointless but is something you find yourself doing surprisingly often, possibly in the garage while your children are napping inside the house. Were napping, that is.

To better enjoy the V12’s comely song, I drove around with the windows down most of the time. Which meant I couldn’t really hear the stereo, and that was all right, because the FF uses the same stereo and navigation system that you find in a Jeep Wrangler (an odd bit of corporate synergy from a fellow Fiat brand).

Of course, nobody buys a Ferrari for the stereo, but maybe someone at Bang & Olufsen or McIntosh needs to make a cold call to Ferrari headquarters in Maranello, Italy. Until then, I’m sure you have the option to just cover the thing with a nice piece of leather.

I get the impression that anything in the FF can be covered in leather, possibly including the inside of the windshield. (Just leave me a small portal, Signore Schedoni.) The car I drove had a leather headliner and smelled like a winning lottery ticket. Which, if you’re wondering, smells like the inside of a Ferragamo store.

That leather ceiling was but one option on a dauntingly vast list. This particular FF in Grigio Abu Dhabi paint (what the peons call “silver”) was stocked with $74,891 in options, bringing the tab to $377,431. That works out to less than $100,000 per passenger, since the FF can actually seat four adults.

I’d consider many of these items to be must-haves, like the sport exhaust system and the height-adjustable suspension that can raise the front end to negotiate steep driveways. You’ll want a healthy budget for fuel, too, because the federal combined city-highway fuel economy rating is 13 m.p.g.

Other options I could live without, like the yellow Scuderia Ferrari badges on the flanks. Given this car’s Formula One soundtrack, its radical proportions, its sneering maw of an egg-crate grille, do you need extra badges to tell the world that this is a Ferrari? What else could it be? Affixing more badges to an FF is like welcoming Sophia Vergara to a dinner party and handing her a nametag.

I never had the good fortune to pilot the FF through a snowstorm, but on dry pavement the all-wheel-drive system and its front-wheel torque vectoring manifest themselves as preternatural poise. You just keep accelerating through a big, sweeping bend and the car simply goes where you aim it, faster and faster, as if there’s a black hole just beyond the corner exit.

At some point, of course, the FF must relinquish its stranglehold on the pavement, but that will happen at speeds you probably shouldn’t visit outside your private airstrip. You may be moved to issue warnings to your passengers, along the lines of: “You won’t think this car is capable of what it’s about to do. Just trust me that we’re nowhere near the limits.”

Before the arrival of the FF, this was the sort of vehicle that the Sultan of Brunei would have commissioned for himself, at great expense. Sure, $300,000 is a lot of money, but it’s probably a steal compared with what the Sultan must have paid for his custom Ferrari 456 wagon in the ’90s. And you can drive it year-round, with jealous relatives or your purebred Chinese cresteds (or both) along for the ride.

Put it this way: this is the Ferrari for people who aren’t buying their first Ferrari. Understand that, and you understand the decision to step outside the safe confines of supercar orthodoxy. Unlike the 458 Italia or the 599 GTB, each descended from decades’ worth of predecessors, the FF is a new branch on the family tree. It’s a daring car, and I love the confidence it represents.

Ferrari could have just gone with the crowd and built a low-slung four-door like the Aston Martin Rapide. Instead it built a modern version of the 1961 Ferrari 250 GT Breadvan racecar, and bully on them for doing it. The world has enough Mercedes CLS clones. It doesn’t have nearly enough Ferrari shooting brakes.
55 2012-06-03 My heart was in my mouth the entire time I was reading. What gutsy and bighearted reporting. No one who read this story will ever think of the war in Afghanistan without seeing those two innocent kids, their awful suffering and the insane wreckage of their lives.

I am so glad someone is writing about this rather than yet more of the heroic Navy Seal manhood stuff. This is the truth of our foreign policy, no matter how much we want to cover it up in our flag.

LITTLE HOUSE ON THE CATASTROPHICALLY DAMAGED PRAIRIE

In the otherwise carefully detailed story of how mining has devastated Treece, Kan., Wes Enzinna notes that he was unable to interview one of its two remaining residents, Tim Busby, because “he didn’t like reporters.” Well, who can blame him? The article included gratuitous insults about former Mayor Bill Blunk’s tattoos and missing teeth and described Tim’s wife, Della, as “still in the pink pajamas and Las Vegas T-shirt she’d slept in.” It’s no wonder those of us living on the East Coast are so hated.

People needed work in the 1940s, and the mining companies that came to Treece solidly supported more than a generation of families there. We are human and tend first to protect ourselves and our families. If it’s a choice between lots of jobs and the future of land/water/air, I wonder how many people will forgo the opportunity to work, pay the mortgage and feed their families?

In his guest Ethicist column, Andrew Light argues that the people we are closest to can make special claims on us. But the woman whose question he responds to reports “no relationship” with the troubled brother whom she is contemplating taking care of. More critically, Light underestimates the woman’s obligations to her own daughter. He overlooks that she has a legal responsibility as a parent — as well as a moral responsibility, since she presumably chose to have a child.
56 2012-06-03 The American Queen’s history has been short but eventful, and lovers of the gentle, genteel pastime of steamboat cruising have been watching to see if that history would have any new chapters. The boat, built in 1995 by the Delta Queen Steamboat Company, had some fine years on the Mississippi and elsewhere. But no craft made can outrun hard times, and in 2008 the Majestic America Line, which had come to own the American Queen, faltered.

The United States Maritime Administration held the and took custody, but apparently nobody in any of the three branches of government knew what to do with an unarmed luxury steamboat, so the American Queen got a few years of forced . But certain people were being driven slowly crazy by the knowledge that a perfectly good steamboat was sitting idle. In 2011 a few of them, including some from the ferry operator HMS Global Maritime, formed the Great American Steamboat Company to acquire the American Queen and put it back on the water.

And so the boat made its way to New Orleans that April Thursday, and the next afternoon I and more than 420 other passengers boarded for its inaugural , a six-night trip to Vicksburg, Miss., and back. (Two weeks later in , the boat’s home port, Priscilla Presley put a bottle of Champagne to death in a formal rechristening.) We set off on a Friday the 13th and just hours before the 100th anniversary of the Titanic’s encounter with that iceberg, but there was no time to ponder omens, because almost immediately we were called upon to do what steamboaters do best and most frequently: eat.

THE American Queen has a large formal dining room, and dinner was served each evening in two seatings, at 5 and 8. Regina Charboneau, who is known for the Biscuits & Blues club in but lives in , Miss., supervised the menus, which that first night included pompano en papillote and quail in a pepper crust. The service in the dining room was sometimes a little rocky, since the staff was green and more or less learning on the job, but the food was better than food on a boat has a right to be. Even though my ticket cost $2,584, the dessert on our second night, a vanilla cheesecake with blackberry sauce, convinced me that I hadn’t paid nearly enough.

Steamboating is one of the most sedentary vacations a body can sign up for. The American Queen barely pays lip service to the idea of onboard exercise, with only a small gym and a runt of a pool (not filled on my trip) that in another century might have been mistaken for a spittoon. There are activities on the boat, but they’re of the sit-and-listen variety: talks about steamboat history or 19th-century dueling, a performance by a imitator, evening piano-bar sessions. A lot of listening and a lot of eating.

Anyone who didn’t feel sufficiently stuffed by what was being served in the dining room could eat in the open air at the River Grill, on a rear deck overlooking that paddle wheel. At the other end of the boat, a little feet-up spot called the Front Porch of America had snacks and hot dogs all day, as well as a self-serve cappuccino machine that worked fine, except when it didn’t.

So anyone who didn’t gain 15 pounds on this trip wasn’t trying. We needed to be well fed, because it turns out we all had a job to do: single-handedly resuscitate the economies of the towns we stopped at along the way.

At least so it seemed, because these people were awfully glad to see us. Generally, the boat traveled at night, and we’d wake up in a new port of call, where we’d be free to go ashore. At Oak Alley Plantation, our first stop, about 50 miles upriver from New Orleans, two young women in full-gown regalia, including parasols, stood at the plantation entrance for our picture-taking benefit. In St. Francisville, La., the next morning, locals handed us carryalls as we left the boat (“St. Francisville: Soothing to the Soul,” was inscribed on them), and the streets were decorated as if dignitaries were expected. In Natchez on Monday morning, a high school band greeted our arrival despite the threat of rain. The Vicksburg Post favored us with a Page 1 photograph under the headline “Welcome Back, M’Lady.” At Houmas House, our final stop, 60 people were on shore to give a welcome, and a woman in a vintage gown serenaded us with a lovely

I hoped that none of the restaurants in these towns were expecting a windfall as we waddled through, because Ms. Charboneau’s breakfasts had left our corsets rather tight. I did make a small contribution to a culinary enterprise in St. Francisville, buying a glass of lemonade from a young girl with a sidewalk stand on Ferdinand Street. The competition in this particular business was fierce: my girl was asking 25 cents; another stand near a shop on Royal Street called Grandmother’s Buttons (which sells, yes, buttons) wanted 50. I made the obvious choice but followed it up with a less intelligent one; the 25-cent girl somehow inspired me to give her a 25-cent tip. This little transaction, for me, came to symbolize the theme of the trip: It was a seven-day, six-night lesson in the cyclical nature of economics.

The steamboat itself has been through a few cycles since John Fitch first operated a primitive one on the Delaware River in 1787. I learned this by spending several informative hours with Mary Charlton and Travis C. Vasconcelos, two experts in river lore (“riverlorians,” in the boat’s parlance) who were onboard for the trip and could often be found in the chart room in the front of the boat talking history and navigation. Originally steamboats weren’t the opulent creatures we picture today. They were cargo vessels, stripped down for maximum speed, since quick delivery, especially for livestock or produce, was vital.

“People were an afterthought,” Ms. Charlton told me during one chat. But then railroads came along, making steamboats an also-ran in the cargo-moving race. Increasingly, steamboats catered to passengers, with onboard entertainments and such. Fares varied just like on oceangoing ships of the day (and, Ms. Charlton said, you could also work onboard in exchange for passage), making steamboating a relatively inexpensive way for just about anybody to experience something resembling luxury, and for immigrants to move across the country.

The American Queen, too, has had assorted incarnations, as Mr. Vasconcelos recounted one morning in a talk he gave in the boat’s Grand Saloon, a modest theater where something always seemed to be going on. Several different owners tried several different themes in the years after the launching in 1995. There was a party-boat phase, he said, and an attempt to market to families, neither of which was successful.

The new owners have returned to the traditional steamboating audience, a crowd with a lot of gray hair and no interest in the parasailing and you find offered on cruises. (The staff, to its , was very attentive to mobility issues, essential at several stops where dauntingly high levees might have been insurmountable for some passengers otherwise.) On our trip, the nightly song-and-dance shows in the Grand Saloon were of a type generally introduced with the phrase “Remember when.” One afternoon a thrill went through the when all present realized that a passing barge was pushing shipping containers in a six-wide, five-long alignment, a shocking departure from the longer-than-wide norm. Well-fed people, it appears, are easily amused people.

Steamboat history, of course, is only a small part of a bigger story. Traveling through this piece of the country brings constant reminders of economic systems that once were, and of the continuing struggle to replace them and repair the damage they caused.

All along the way, historic mansions cry out to be toured: at Oak Alley, with the glorious trees that give it that name; at Natchez, with stunners like Melrose and Rosalie; in Darrow, La., where the of Houmas House put anything you might have in your yard to shame.

In the years before the Civil War, historians tell us, plantation wealth made this part of the Mississippi home to perhaps two-thirds of the country’s millionaires. And so you can view these buildings in a number of ways, all of which are correct. They are well-kept examples of various styles of . They are remnants of a golden era of lavish parties and lovely gowns. They are white elephants whose only real practical uses today are as tourist attractions and movie sets. They are enduring reminders of an economy that was built on the ownership of human beings.

The Civil War of course shattered that economy, but there are still working plantations along the river. One of the more enjoyable tours we American Queen passengers could sign up for was of Frogmore, a working cotton plantation near Natchez where the owners, Buddy and Lynette Tanner, make sure visitors know the past as well as the heavily mechanized and computerized present. In preserved slave quarters and a historic church, Ms. Tanner gives an affecting account of how life was lived during slavery and in the sharecropper era that followed it.

BUT cotton, sugar and tobacco don’t rule this corridor as they once did, and so our route also allowed us to observe (and participate in) the many and fitful attempts to replace them with an incongruous combination of history tourism, swamp chic and .

There is a riverboat casino at Natchez and another at Vicksburg, which also has some land-based gaming parlors. (No gambling on the American Queen, by the way; bridge and cribbage were the games of choice in its card room.) As for the current mania for backwoods experiences, at our Oak Alley stop some of us took a boat tour of the Manchac Swamp with a colorful fellow named Tom Billiot, who summoned the world’s least threatening alligators by throwing marshmallows into the water and dangling meat from a hook.

Those indolent alligators were about as exciting as my trip got, until the aforementioned Great Yazoo Steamboat Wreck. It happened at Vicksburg, which used to be on the Mississippi until the fickle river changed course in 1876 and left the city with no port. In 1903 the , hoping to restore Vicksburg’s water economy, diverted the Yazoo River so that a piece of it now goes by the city.

And so on Tuesday morning we pulled into the Yazoo River Diversion Canal to make our Vicksburg stop. The thing is, the waterway isn’t wide enough to allow a boat the size of the American Queen to turn around, so the only way to leave Vicksburg that afternoon was to back out. It had been a monsoonlike day, and strong winds can shove a flat-bottom boat like the American Queen around a bit. To make the backing maneuver even more difficult, a hulking vessel named the Miss Kathy was coming in as we were trying to go out, so we had to pull to the Louisiana shore to let it pass.

The upshot is that as we were retaking the channel, we brushed up against a stationary barge. A few molecules of paint from the side of our boat may have been lost in the collision; the barge, a rusty mess, could only have been improved by the contact. But maritime rules being what they are, the Coast Guard had to be called to make a report.

Among the passengers who congregated on deck to peer down at the scrape, there was considerable consternation that this would somehow interfere with dinner, a significant concern as this was lobster tail night. But the dining room opened on schedule, and about the same time, the Coast Guard boat pulled up alongside us.

As far as I could see, none of the officers who came aboard actually inspected the spot where boat and barge had clinked together. They did, however, disappear from view for roughly as long as it would take to consume the hind end of a lobster. I’m just saying.

Those used to seeing advertisements for ridiculously inexpensive oceangoing vacations (“Cruises from $179!”) may be startled by the American Queen (888-749-5280; greatamericansteamboatcompany.com) price list. Steamboating isn’t cheap.

Prices for a nine-day cruise from New Orleans to Memphis later this month start at $1,995 a person for double occupancy in an interior cabin and top out at $5,795 a person in a suite with a river view. The boat isn’t really designed for passengers traveling alone, though there are a few single-occupancy interior cabins. Mine was the size of a modest walk-in closet and was across from the laundry room, which once needed noisy emergency repairs at 2 a.m. Prices discourage going solo as well; for that Memphis cruise, the cost for a single cabin is $2,995.

Your ticket buys all your meals (and, at dinner, wine), as well as access to the goings-on in the Grand Saloon, where there are nightly shows and, in the daytime, informative lectures like the one Regina Charboneau, the boat’s culinary director, gave on biscuit-making. (“The key to my biscuits is not overmixing.”)

Some of the best entertainment is in simply watching a steamboat do what a steamboat does. The engine room is open for touring almost anytime. There’s a pleasing grandeur in watching the boat’s imposing smokestacks fold down when a low bridge is ahead. And it’s amazing to see a boat this size pull right up to a sandy bank; it draws only eight feet, so deep water is not required.

At each stop, the cruise line sets up a free hop-in/hop-off bus circuit to take guests to nearby towns or attractions, some of which grant free admission to passengers from the boat. But for an additional fee — $49 was typical — the more adventurous can take a variety of “premium tours,” which on my trip included a ride through an alligator-filled swamp and a visit to the once-notorious Louisiana State Penitentiary in Angola (which now promotes itself as a model penal institution).

The American Queen has cruises scheduled through the end of the year on the Upper and Lower Mississippi as well as the Ohio and Tennessee. Many have themes: “Music of the 1960s,” “Epic Civil War,” “Old-Fashioned Holidays.” They range from three nights to 10.
57 2012-06-03 Renée Fleming, soprano; Orchestre Philharmonique de Radio France, conducted by Alan Gilbert; Orchestre National de France, conducted by Seiji Ozawa. Decca 478 3500; CD and download.

IN an introductory note for her recording “Poèmes,” the soprano Renée Fleming writes that “for the sheer sensual joy of singing, no language gives me more pleasure than French.” This album, her most impressive in some time, offers French works for soprano and orchestra by Ravel, Messiaen and Henri Dutilleux.

Ms. Fleming brings an entrancing balance of refinement and ardor to Ravel’s voluptuous song cycle “Shéhérazade,” with Alan Gilbert drawing plush, textured playing from the Orchestre Philharmonique de Radio France.

It was at Mr. Gilbert’s urging that Ms. Fleming performed Messiaen’s song cycle “Poèmes Pour Mi” as part of his debut program as music director of the New York Philharmonic in 2009. Messiaen wrote this 30-minute song cycle for soprano and piano in 1936 (and orchestrated it the following year) as an ode to his first wife, setting his own poems.

The work is run through with hints of misty Impressionism. But many of the songs have leaping vocal lines and fits of passion, captured vividly by Ms. Fleming in her visceral and dreamy singing.

Mr. Dutilleux, now 96, had the huskier texture of Ms. Fleming’s low range in mind when he wrote his song cycle “Le Temps l’Horloge” (“Time and the Clock”) for her. The piece runs just over 14 minutes; the music is compact, spare and restless, written in a harmonic language you might call soft-edged modernism. This recording is of the work’s premiere performance in 2009, with Seiji Ozawa conducting the Orchestre National de France.
58 2012-06-03 “It’s so cute,” Mrs. Koelhofer said. “The kids all walk to school. They know who the crossing guard is. It’s a very Norman Rockwell setting. The one thing we really like is that it has a real small-town feel.”

That quality is apparent in the strength of local volunteerism, said Frank Sapienza, Verona’s part-time mayor. During the economic downturn, he said, no services were cut. Taxes are considered reasonable, especially when compared with those of neighboring communities. “There’s a great community spirit,” Mr. Sapienza said. “When someone’s in need, this community comes together like no other.”

After an October snowstorm left 80 percent of Verona residents without power, the township needed to get rid of thousands of leafy tree branches snapped off by the heavy snow. At the site of the town pool, a kind of unofficial community meeting space, debris was gathered and machines were used to mulch it.

The mulch was then trucked to the Hilltop Conservancy, the former site of the Essex County Sanatorium, where a three-acre meadow is being created by conservancy volunteers. “Saved us tens of thousands of dollars,” Mr. Sapienza said. “We didn’t have to get rid of all that wood.”

Lisa and Sean Remler moved to town in August with their daughters, Caitlin, 10, and Sara, 7. The school the girls attend, Forest Avenue, one of four primary schools in the Verona district, has about 250 students enrolled through Grade 4. As Mrs. Remler put it, “I feel like the teachers really know my kids.”

Caitlin and Sara will probably soon be spending time at the town pool, which has two water slides and which, even before its recent renovation, was “one of our jewels,” Mr. Sapienza said. A family membership is $440 a year.

Anticipating the first full summer in town, Mrs. Remler said: “Everybody says they go to that pool. People say, ‘We have neighbors who have kids who are grown now, and the kids have told us, we grew up at that pool.’ ”

Verona sits almost smack-dab in the middle of a triangle formed by Interstates 80 and 280 and the Garden State Parkway — though it is not as if any of the three highways were right down the street. Ms. Severance (an author of “The Complete Idiot’s Guide to Selling Your Home”) said, “You’ve got access to highways, but the highways aren’t running through Verona.”

It is not on the New Jersey Transit Midtown Direct line — for which the closest station is in Montclair — but the township has easy highway access to New York City, about 20 miles to the east. And although Verona is hardly as trendy as Montclair, its neighbor to the east, Mrs. Koelhofer said, “we’re as close to Montclair as some of the people who live in Montclair.”

Busy Bloomfield Avenue traverses the township from Montclair to Caldwell, and residents like the accessibility to both towns, but they also like Verona’s homespun shopping district, up the street from Verona Park. On weekends, customers visit DiPaolo Bakery on Bloomfield Avenue in a steady stream.

Verona is also a good place to slow down. When asked what he liked to do on weekends, Mr. Sapienza said, “I just like to sit in the backyard and relax.”

The housing stock is varied enough to attract empty nesters. Steven Schwartz, 67, and his wife, Judy, 65, paid $690,000 two years ago for a pair of two-bedroom condominiums on the penthouse floor of one of the Claridge House high-rises. They had lived nearby in Short Hills for 26 years, raising two sons, and when they moved away, they wanted to live in more maintenance-free surroundings.

It took them a year to renovate, raising the ceilings along the way, Mr. Schwartz said, but they now have a three-bedroom apartment and a one-bedroom apartment. Their sons live in Florida and Colorado, and the Schwartzes have four grandchildren, whom they get to see often.

And when they get back to Verona, a spectacular view always welcomes them home. “We get to see from the Verrazano Bridge all the way up to the George Washington Bridge,” he said. “At our ages, it’s perfect.”

Residences on the Garden State Multiple Listing Service ranged from a one-bedroom 1964 condo, for $143,000, to a three-bedroom condo in a high-rise built in 1965 for $1.5 million. A six-bedroom four-bath Victorian overlooking the park and lake was listed at $1.199 million. The annual tax bill was $16,113.

In the middle, at $375,000, was a three-bedroom one-and-a-half-bath colonial built in 1945 in the Forest Avenue section, with an annual tax bill of $9,950.

George F. Librizzi, Verona Township’s tax assessor, said 149 houses sold in 2011; the average sale price for a condominium was $203,900; for a single-family house, $458,500.

According to Trulia, the median sale price in Verona from December to February was $385,000, or 0.5 percent higher than the median a year earlier. The median fell by 7.8 percent over the last five years, but it was still 6.9 percent higher from December to February than it had been in the previous quarter. “It’s been getting better and better,” said Barbara J. Amato, the broker/owner of the Claridge Realty Group, which markets condos in the two Claridge House luxury high-rises. “I have seen it pick up since the first of January.”

Five DeCamp express buses run to the Port Authority on weekday mornings from Lakeside Avenue in Verona. The trip takes about 45 minutes; a 40-trip ticket is $261. Residents can also park at Montclair State University and take New Jersey Transit to Penn Station. Daily parking is $3, a monthly ticket $208. There are six direct trains to New York from 5 to 9 a.m., and four returning from 4 to 8 p.m.; the trip takes 50 minutes to an hour.

WHAT TO DO

Verona Park, bordered by Lakeside and Bloomfield Avenues just east of downtown, surrounds a 13-acre lake created in 1814 to fuel a grist mill. The lake became hugely popular for boating, fishing, skating and swimming, and Essex County has made improvements, recently developing an exercise course.

The park has a playground, a boathouse, and tennis and bocce courts, but its pathways also draw a lot of walkers and joggers. Not far away, on Bloomfield Avenue, is an old-fashioned ice-cream parlor called the Towne Scoop that the Remlers have discovered.

In addition to Forest Avenue, the primary schools are Brookdale Avenue, F. N. Brown and Laning Avenue. Enrollment is about 300 at Laning Avenue, the largest of the four. Average class size is 18.3; the state average is 18.2.

Joan Gardner, a Verona resident since 1984 who is an agent for Coldwell Banker in Caldwell, laughed when she said: “It’s like a joke. Everybody says their elementary school is the best.”

Henry B. Whitehorne Middle School has about 600 students in Grades 5 through 8. Verona High School has about 600. SAT averages in 2010  were 533 in math, 527 in reading and 531 in writing, versus 520, 496 and 499 statewide.

The graduation rate for the classes of 2008, 2009 and 2010 exceeded 98 percent, versus 94.7 percent statewide. About one-quarter of students in Grades 11 and 12 took advanced-placement classes, versus 19.9 percent statewide.

The athletic teams at Verona High have been known as the Hillbillies for more than 60 years. A drawing of the school mascot, which dates to the 1950s, was changed in recent years, with a gun and a jug of moonshine being replaced by a dog and a fishing pole (although merchandise with the old logo is still sold on the alumni association Web site).
59 2012-06-03 This clash of theories illustrates a larger debate about the nature of innovation in the 21st century, and the even larger question of who, exactly, decides what any given object is really for. Does progress flow from a corporate entity’s offering a whiz-bang breakthrough embraced by the masses? Or does techno-thing success now depend on the company’s acquiescing to the crowd’s input? Which vision of an object’s meaning wins? The Kinect does not neatly conform to either theory. But in this instance, maybe it’s not about whose vision wins; maybe it’s about the contest.

Theodore Watson bought a Kinect as soon as the gadget was available. He soon acquired 15 more. He admits to a “slight addiction” to the game Call of Duty, but he does not use any of his Kinects to play games. Watson is an artist and a designer who lives in Brooklyn, and his work uses closed-circuit security cameras, graphics cards and gaming hardware “tweaked,” he notes, “for our purposes.”

To use a Kinect with a computer instead of an Xbox, Watson needed a “driver” (basically a bit of software) that did not exist. He joined a small, far-flung, highly dedicated and technically sophisticated community effort dubbed OpenKinect, which sprang up immediately after the Kinect was introduced, to write the code that would make this possible. At the same time, Adafruit, a hobbyist-focused electronics company based in New York, offered $1,000 to the first person or group to write the necessary code in an open-source format.

At the time — this was shortly before the 2010 holiday season — Microsoft’s primary Kinect focus was the mainstream game-playing market. Its first response to OpenKinect seemed predictable: CNET reported an unnamed spokesperson declaring that the company “does not condone the modification of its products” and would “work closely with law enforcement . . . to keep Kinect tamper-resistant.” Adafruit increased its prize, ultimately to $3,000. Within days a developer in Spain posted videos demonstrating that he made his Kinect work with a P.C. OpenKinect refined and spread the open-source driver code, and a variety of “Kinect hacks,” as they came to be called, proliferated in YouTube videos. (An early example involved a Kinect used to create a version of the hand-swipe control contraption Tom Cruise used in “Minority Report.”) Soon Watson and his wife, Emily Gobeille, posted their own video, in which her hand movements were captured by a Kinect and translated onto a screen displaying a computer-generated bird figure, which she controlled like a high-tech puppet.

Watson told me this by phone from Amsterdam, where he and Gobeille had just presented a polished version of their creation as an installation at CineKid, an international entertainment festival, for an audience that included Dutch royalty. The specter of a Microsoft-backed “law enforcement” response to projects like his had obviously faded. In fact, shortly after the open-source driver was finished, one of Microsoft’s top Kinect people appeared on NPR’s “Science Friday” and, in remarks that were widely reproduced across the Web, asserted that OpenKinect participants would “absolutely not” be prosecuted.

In December 2010, Microsoft’s partner PrimeSense, an Israeli company that created the Kinect’s 3-D depth-sensing chip, released its own set of software drivers and code for the so-called hackers to monkey with. A few months later, Microsoft announced it would release its own code kit. It certainly seemed, as Mashable.com put it, that the company had “done a complete 180 when it comes to hacks.”

The idea of a loosely knit band of outsider creative coders forcing a massive company to rethink a crucial new product is appealing. Especially when that company is Microsoft. Fairly or not, Microsoft is widely viewed not as an innovator but as a peddler of me-too products (the Zune, Explorer, Bing, even the look and feel, if you will, of Windows itself) with ruthless business acumen. Open-source zealots point all the way back to 1976, when Bill Gates wrote an “open letter to hobbyists,” complaining that distributors of free, unauthorized copies of software created by what was then called Micro-Soft were disreputable pirates, thwarting progress by removing the financial incentives to improve and develop technology. As John Markoff, a reporter for The Times, put it in his 2005 book, “What the Dormouse Said,” it was a primal ideological standoff between an “anarchic cadre of programmers and hardware tinkerers” and profit-hungry business. That standoff persists.

Last year, I visited the company’s campus in Redmond, Wash., to talk about the Kinect. I was led to an ersatz living room with three couches and a couple of huge TV screens within a mini-mall-style building called the Commons, to meet Alex Kipman. A 32-year-old Brazilian who has spent his entire career at Microsoft, Kipman is credited by the company as the quarterback of the Kinect project; he’s the guy who assured NPR listeners that Microsoft was not siccing lawyers on the OpenKinect community. He has shaggy hair and wore jeans and a mauve T-shirt with a skull design. Three publicists hovered as I floated the notion that Microsoft has a reputation for being a little, you know, control-obsessed.

He cheerily acknowledged that perception and then served up a very different version of the Kinect story. In the hackers’ version, Microsoft had effectively lost control of its own product, thanks to the open-source efforts fueled partly by the Adafruit OpenKinect contest. It had since emerged that Johnny Chung Lee, an employee of Microsoft in the Applied Sciences Group, had covertly bankrolled that competition, and later said — after decamping for Google — that he did so after his “internal efforts” to persuade the company to immediately support the Kinect’s potential beyond gaming went nowhere. “Best $3,000 I ever spent,” he wrote on his blog.

Kipman dismissed the notion that outsiders changed Microsoft’s mind about the Kinect’s potential, or its strategy. For starters, Kinect had not been “hacked” at all, because no one had cracked its proprietary code. “If you’re just person X out there, it’s much more glamorous to call it ‘hacking,’ ” he continued. “From my perspective, it’s ‘tinkering.’ ” Moreover, Kipman waved off Lee’s account of internal resistance to non-Xbox uses for the Kinect: the master plan for the Kinect always included the P.C. “Johnny wasn’t part of any of those conversations,” he told me. “He didn’t even work at Xbox.” The Kinect project attracted lots of enthusiasm within Microsoft, Kipman said, and Lee was a “bright kid” but merely one of “hundreds” of Microsoft coders “contributing from the fringes” who “lacked perspective” on how business works. Besides, he concluded, Microsoft had no problem with the “tinkerer crew” because it anticipated them.

Lee initially declined to comment for this article, but he did e-mail me a response to Kipman’s account: “The tremendous amount of positive press coverage on Kinect projects in the months immediately following launch was worth tens of millions dollars in marketing for Xbox — and remains one of the most culturally interesting aspects of this product, keeping us actively talking about the technology today. Stimulating that for $3,000 seems like good business sense to me.”

Either way, the incident seemed to burnish Microsoft’s reputation. Wired even published an article crediting Microsoft for its forward-thinking attitude toward collaborating with the masses: “No company has made it so easy to hack into a product as popular as the Kinect,” the article asserted, implying that the company planned on home-brew innovators as crucial strategic partners. So I thought I was throwing Kipman a softball when I asked if all the hubbub had ultimately helped Kinect’s highly successful launch.

Not really, Kipman replied. Off-label creators numbered “maybe a thousand,” and millions of Kinect buyers have no awareness of their existence. “We still want to foster” that community, he allowed. “But from the perspective of a multibillion-dollar program, it was neutral. It was neither good nor bad.”

Kinect hackers may not have cared about video games, but what they wanted — a device containing specific high-tech components for just $150 — was achievable specifically because of its connection to something with the scale of the Xbox system. Only a company the size of Microsoft could afford the massive research-and-development costs, and only mass-market appeal could make such a product financially viable.

Kyle McDonald, a digital artist based in Brooklyn, had been working with 3-D sensor technology for years when the Kinect came out, so at first he underestimated the significance of Microsoft’s latest product. But within a week, the hacker videos and online commentary changed his mind, and he bought one. This is evidence of something even more surprising than the possibility that Microsoft had learned to love the hackers: Outsider tech creators have learned to love a Microsoft product. Or if not love, then at least take it seriously. McDonald teaches a class at New York University on “appropriating new technologies.” The goal of any given Kinect hack, he says, isn’t simply to create a high-tech puppet show but to understand how the device works and what its function could be.

The theory that companies should wholeheartedly embrace strange experimentations of people like McDonald turns on a straightforward idea: It’s good for the bottom line. “You get unexpected uses of your products that might contribute to a different direction your company can go,” says Bas van Abel, a designer in Utrecht, the Netherlands, and co-author of the book “Open Design Now.” Established companies may still resist that argument, but more and more upstarts take it for granted that a community of customers, hobbyists and amateurs (or, as van Abel prefers, hackers and artists) will innovate well beyond what any firm can come up with on its own.

According to Henry Chesbrough, a business professor at the University of California at Berkeley and the author of “Open Innovation,” even mainstream companies are starting to agree that tech hobbyists aren’t just consumers but creative partners. This, he says, is purely pragmatic: “We can get more done with less resources by collaborating, cooperating with this community.” He points to Lego’s capitalizing on the unexpected (and decidedly fringy) inventions by users of its Mindstorms motor kits, essentially expanding the company’s place in the mainstream and lucrative education market.

Some at Microsoft do in fact seem pleased about Kinect experimentation from the fringes, particularly those I met in the company’s research division. Microsoft Research, which is separate from the Xbox unit, released the official software developer kit for the Kinect, promoting it with an event called Code Camp last June: a couple of dozen developers, designers, students and others were invited to dream up and create Kinect-using projects in 24 hours, demonstrating the results in a live Webcast. But for the most part, Microsoft’s message about the Kinect in its first year on the market kept it in the predictable context of the living-room entertainment center. In December 2011, the company announced what it called “an all-new Xbox 360 experience,” in which the Kinect’s voice-recognition capabilities acted as a sort of souped-up remote control: you bark “Cate Blanchett movies” at your TV, for example, to see what’s available.

The Microsoft Research Kinect software developer kit — the one announced shortly after the OpenKinect kerfuffle and released last summer — was intended for academics and enthusiasts and carried a license that ruled out business uses; one Kinect hacker complained to me that using it amounted to giving Microsoft free publicity. His point was illustrated just before the Kinect’s first anniversary by an Xbox promotional video, titled “Kinect Effect.” It opens with a product shot, as a narrator explains, over uplifting strings, that “something amazing is happening — the world is starting to imagine things we hadn’t even thought of.” The slick montage features what appear to be actors using the Kinect in various academic, medical and artistic settings. Microsoft hadn’t fought the hackers, but it hadn’t really embraced them either. Instead the company monitored “the Kinect effect” — and appropriated it.

A new version of the Kinect, specifically designed to work with a Windows P.C., came out in February, along with a software kit that would allow developers to create commercial Kinect applications. The P.C. version of the device costs $250, or $100 more than the Xbox version, but the developer software is free. (A slightly upgraded version was released in May.) By March, Microsoft announced team-ups with 350 commercial partners on applications for hospitals, assembly lines, work-force training and so on, including many big corporate names, like American Express and Toyota.

The newer wave of Kinect “hacks” attracting attention in the tech-and-trend press includes interactive shop fronts and billboards, tools for retailers to learn from consumers’ in store-behavior, home security, online banking and something called “natural user interface advertising,” which would use the Kinect to detect, for advertisers, information about who is watching television. Microsoft has also teamed with TechStars, a business incubator, on an effort called Kinect Accelerator, backing a batch of entrepreneurs with business plans built around the Kinect.

In effect, as Tim Carmody, a technology writer, pointed out, the decision to tether market-oriented innovations to a new, P.C.-centric version of the Kinect (and to Microsoft-distributed developer software and commercial-use licensing) has created a separate community of application creation. Creators using the open-source software that makes the original Kinect work with non-Xbox devices can’t really participate in the commercial market — but they’re still free to experiment. That’s not exactly the “open innovation” idea. Then again, it’s also a long way from an attempt to regain full, top-down control over who shapes the way this technology will be used. And maybe this outcome makes sense given the Kinect’s history.

Kyle McDonald, the Brooklyn artist who initially underestimated the Kinect’s importance, still works with the device today. And he’s intrigued by the fact that so many people like him are still experimenting with it, using it in new ways and sharing the code that makes it possible for others to do the same. “People are trying to decide for themselves what they want these technologies to mean,” McDonald says. The answer used to come from defense firms, academia, megacorporations. “It can’t be just them,” he continues. “It has to be everyone.” Maybe that’s supposed to mean a new form of harmony between corporations and outsiders, but in this case, it feels like creative friction.
60 2012-06-03 Customers complain that it either doesn’t work at all or is unbearably slow. “It’s like dial-up pretending to be Wi-Fi,” said Carrie Strine, an artist in New York, who frequently rides the train to Lancaster, Pa. “You almost expect to hear that sound that used to make when you logged in.”

And in a cruel but irresistible irony, those who want to send e-mails or update their page while traveling the busy Northeast Corridor might be better served by, say, the Delta Shuttle, which offers Wi-Fi on flights between New York and (though they charge for it), or a bus; many lines offer free Internet access.

“I can’t believe it’s even marketed as Wi-Fi,” said Erin Gates, an interior decorator and fashion blogger who lives in Boston. Ms. Gates, a regular train rider, initially expected the service to work as smoothly as Wi-Fi on or Virgin America airlines, but she has given up on it and bought a wireless card from Sprint.

Amtrak officials have heard the silent, hash-tagged screams and say that they are updating equipment on most trains and that passengers should see improvement by the end of the year. But they also point out that some of the biggest problems with the service are beyond their control, like the placement of cellular towers and the fact that so many users are all vying for the same service.

All of which leaves riders wondering why Amtrak has spent so much effort advertising its free Wi-Fi as a reason to take the train when the service is so unreliable. “They oversold the service, and now customers feel like they are not getting what they were promised,” said Jean-Pierre Dubé, a professor of marketing at the Booth School of Business.

Amtrak’s well-traveled and tech-addicted customers, unfortunately, don’t seem to care whether this is a case of poorly managed expectations. They just want the Wi-Fi to work.

Tony Fratto, a former spokesman for President who is now a CNBC commentator, recently had an extended Twitter exchange about the service with an Amtrak official that left him as pessimistic about it as before.

“The Wi-Fi is so bad as to be more of a nuisance than a help,” Mr. Fratto said. By contrast, he said, he recently found the wireless Internet service on the Métro system in to be fantastic and consistent. (That said, intercity rail passengers in have also frequently complained about wireless service there, which suggests the technical issues of providing a reliable wireless network on a train are not unique to Amtrak.)

To their , Amtrak officials are not defending the status quo. “It’s not where we would like it to be in terms of performance,” said Matt Hardison, Amtrak’s chief of sales distribution and consumer service.

But they point out that their challenges are unusual. Buses, for example, have many fewer riders than an Amtrak train does, while planes have the benefit of being thousands of feet in the sky, where there is relatively little competition for bandwidth.

Amtrak’s Wi-Fi comes from cellular towers along the tracks that transmit signals to a router in the cafe cars, Mr. Hardison said. As the trains move, they travel in and out of different mobile carriers’ cellular coverage areas.

In some cases the handoff between cell towers and carriers is smooth, and users continue to get service. And in some cases, well, the handoff stutters. (This can happen on buses, too, by the way.)

With so many travelers toting laptops, smartphones and iPads around, is another problem.

Airlines with Wi-Fi generally limit users by charging a fee to connect to the Web, a step Amtrak has resisted because it wanted to use the free service as part of a marketing campaign. Amtrak does restrict the use of data-intensive activities like streaming and video or downloading large files, but this has not seemed to help with the speed.

Mr. Hardison said the company is updating software and equipment on its Acela trains, which make up 25 percent of ridership. The work should be completed by the end of the year and improvements to other trains will be made when financing becomes available. The plan is to upgrade to the faster so-called 4G networks, which will increase bandwidth available through its Wi-Fi system by five times its current capacity.

Still, these steps will not completely solve the problem, Amtrak concedes. Not all areas will have 4G. And there are still gaps in the cellular network along Amtrak’s northeast route, particularly between Baltimore and , Del. and in parts of , Mr. Hardison said.

Stephen Rayment, chief technology officer at the telecom giant , said part of Amtrak’s Wi-Fi issue had to do with the wireless carriers.

“It would be nice if or optimized their networks along train tracks, but typically they don’t,” he said. “They target capacity where they have the most users.”

Mr. Rayment said Amtrak could put wireless equipment closer to the tracks or buy dedicated service from the wireless carriers that only it could use, but both options would be costly.

Still, Amtrak’s Wi-Fi service has its defenders. Senator , Democrat of , who rides the train nearly every day, said he is generally pleased with the service.

“Sure there are some areas where the service is spotty, but I have the same problem with my phone,” Mr. Coons said. “I think Amtrak has done a great job.”

And passengers have found ways to cope. Many congregate in the cafe cars of regular trains where the wireless router is located and the signal is strongest. For others, a portable wireless device like an air card from Sprint, Verizon or AT&T solves the problem.

Then there are those who see the glass as half full, like Ryan Whitaker, who works in real estate in and frequently takes Amtrak to or for business.

“It’s a mandatory break from work, since I can’t connect,” Mr. Whitaker said. “Maybe they are doing me a favor.”
61 2012-06-03 Her songs have built Fiona Apple, whose new album is partly titled “The Idler Wheel,” an audience that follows her intently, with both admiration and concern....
62 2012-06-03 This year, Eva Redei, a professor at Northwestern's Feinberg School of Medicine, published a paper that identified molecules in the blood that correlated to major depression in a small group of teenagers. Ridge Diagnostics has also started to roll...
63 2012-06-03 Lee Rich, the creative force behind Lorimar Productions, an independent studio that spawned two of television's most enduring (and archetypally opposite) fictional American families -- the poor but happy kinfolk of ''The Waltons'' and the rich but...
64 2012-06-03 Facebook is a boon to disabled people, who often live lonely lives and seldom leave their homes. It is hard to be social when one is hard of hearing or deaf or blind, or relies upon paratransit just to make medical appointments. Facebook opens a d...
65 2012-06-04 Security researchers are learning more about Flame, the computer virus aimed at computers in the Middle East. Among the most intriguing discoveries: The virus should not have been that hard to find. It was, however, a failure of the computer secur...
66 2012-06-04 The third week of the trial of Rajat K. Gupta, who has been charged with leaking corporate secrets about Goldman Sachs, began with the testimony of the bank's chief executive....
67 2012-06-04 A militia temporarily shut down Tripoli's airport in the latest instance of the interim government's inability to rein in armed groups that emerged in the uprising that ultimately toppled Libya's dictator, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi....
68 2012-06-04 The decline in the nine participating Northeastern and mid-Atlantic states can be attributed not just to the carbon market, but to the cheap price of natural gas, improved energy efficiency programs and an economic decline....
69 2012-06-04 The Wall Street firm laid off about 50 people last week, a number of them managing directors, according to people briefed on the matter....
70 2012-06-04 Premium tickets topped out at $499 apiece for the last performances of the Tony-nominated revival of Arthur Miller's play....
71 2012-06-04 The Red Bulls face the Harrisburg (Pa.) City Islanders Tuesday night in a fourth-round match of the Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup....
72 2012-06-04 Running a fever during pregnancy is associated with a risk of autism spectrum disorders and developmental delays in the offspring, a new study reports....
73 2012-06-04 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
74 2012-06-04 Recent offshore case law has recognized an investor's right to seek a "just and equitable" windup of a hedge fund when it has gone into lockup mode....
75 2012-06-04 The museum, recently featured by The Times, will display roughly 350 cars at any one time....
76 2012-06-04 The company announced a number of new partnerships and games on Monday, a day before the annual Electronic Entertainment Expo formally opens....
77 2012-06-04 A joint news conference set for Tuesday reflects a new level of cooperation between national gay rights advocates and other civil rights leaders....
78 2012-06-04 Want to avoid applying known carcinogens to your skin and hair?...
79 2012-06-04 Morena Calderon-Perez joined the New York office of nuvoTV in a new post, director for advertising sales. She had most recently been network sales account executive for the Telemundo network that is part of Telemundo Media, a unit of the NBCUniversal division of the Comcast Corporation.

Catapult Marketing and RPM Connect, two divisions of Hyper Marketing, have been merged to form CatapultRPM, with more than 300 employees at headquarters in Westport, Conn., and 10 offices in locations like Chicago, Cincinnati, Los Angeles and Bentonville, Ark.

Lee Doyle joined Mindshare North America, New York — part of the Mindshare division of GroupM, owned by WPP — in a new post, president for client development. He is taking the post seven months after he stepped down as North American chief executive at another GroupM agency, MEC, at which time it was announced that he would soon “take a new direction in his career within GroupM and WPP.”

Elasticity, St. Louis, a public relations and digital marketing agency, opened its first office, in Chicago, to be led by David Vislosky.

Alan Hicks joined the Raleigh, N.C., office of Gibbs & Soell in a new post, creative director. He had most recently been creative director at Signal, Raleigh.

KBM Group, agreed to acquire Predictys SAS, Grenoble, France, a digital database marketing agency. Financial terms were not disclosed. KBM is part of the Wunderman unit of the Young & Rubicam Group, which is owned by WPP.

Bryan Le joined Rokkan, New York, as creative director, a new post, second in command in the creative department and reporting to Charles Bae, partner and chief creative officer. Mr. Le had been an art director at Huge, Brooklyn, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Melissa Lea, who had been serving since August as interim president at Blitz Media, Waltham, Mass., was named president and chief executive. She has hired two executives for new posts: Mitch Blum, chief marketing officer, and Joseph Pessolano, chief financial officer.

Peter Mayer Advertising, New Orleans, hired five employees. They are: Christopher Arcuri, print production manager on the CenturyLink account; Arielle Jordan, a project manager; Katherine LeBlanc, a senior public relations account executive; Kristy McDaniel, an account director; and Kristin Popham, a senior studio specialist.

MSL Group, part of the Publicis Groupe, introduced a worldwide offering, named PurPle, combining its services in areas like cause marketing, sustainability and corporate social responsibility. The name is meant to invoke “Purpose” and “People.” PurPle will be led by Pascal Beucler, chief strategy officer at the MSL Group, and Scott Beaudoin, who becomes global director at PurPle; Mr. Beaudoin’s previous duties had included North American director for cause marketing and corporate social responsibility at the MSL Group Americas division.

Sergio Mugnaini joined AKQA, San Francisco, as a creative director. He has worked at agencies that include AlmapBBDO and Goodby, Silverstein & Partners.

Outside Television, Westport, Conn., founded by Mariah Media, which publishes Outside magazine, and Resort Sports Network, selected Cenergy, East Aurora, N.Y., as its first advertising agency of record. Spending was not disclosed.

Kim and Wayne Pick, who held senior creative posts in the New Zealand office of Rapp, part of the Omnicom Group, are moving to New York to become executive creative directors of the Rapp New York office. The married couple arrives after Marty Cooke, who had been United States chief creative officer at Rapp, left the agency to start a line of design products.

Publicis Groupe, Paris, merged two agencies in France, Duke and Saatchi & Saatchi France, to form Saatchi & Saatchi Duke, to be managed jointly by Stéphane Guerry, who led Duke, and Elie Ohayon, who led the Saatchi & Saatchi French operation. The merged agency will be in the former Saatchi & Saatchi office in Saint-Denis, a Paris suburb.

Qian Qian joined Deutsch New York as vice president and creative director. He had most recently been interactive design director at the Boulder, Colo., office of Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners. Deutsch New York is part of Deutsch, a division of the Lowe & Partners unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Tiffany Rolfe joined Co:Collective, New York, in a new post, partner and chief content officer. She had been vice president and co-executive creative director at the Los Angeles office of Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners.

Nancy Weber was named president of the board of New York Women in Communications for 2012-13. Ms. Weber, who is executive vice president and chief marketing officer at the Meredith Corporation, assumes duties from Catherine Mathis, the 2011-12 president who is senior vice president for marketing and communications at Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services.

Wieden & Kennedy, Portland, Ore., and its client, the Chrysler Group, won the Grand Effie, the best in show award, at the 2012 Effies, sponsored by Effie Worldwide, for the “Imported from Detroit” campaign for the Chrysler 200 that was introduced during the Super Bowl in 2011. Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, part of WPP, won the most Effies, 17, followed by Leo Burnett, part of the Publicis Groupe, with 13, and Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners, with 7. In a first, Effie Worldwide, together with Warc, named the “most effective” entities in numerous categories in what was called the 2012 North American Effie Effectiveness Index rankings. The winners, by categories: Procter & Gamble, advertiser; I.B.M., brand; WPP, agency holding company; Ogilvy & Mather, agency network; the Ogilvy New York office, agency office; and McKinney, independent agency.

Bob Woodruff Foundation moved its headquarters to New York from Washington and named four new members to its board: Gerry Byrne, vice chairman at the Penske Media Corporation; Bob Jeffrey, chairman and chief executive at JWT, part of WPP; Richard Wilde, development and partnerships executive at ABC News, part of the ABC unit of the Walt Disney Company, who is a colleague of Mr. Woodruff’s; and William Winkenwerder, chairman of the Winkenwerder Company, a health care consultancy. The foundation works to help wounded members of the military.
80 2012-06-04 Bank of America withheld loss estimates before Merrill merger. And will leaders muster the will to save the euro?...
81 2012-06-04 Bank of America withheld loss estimates before Merrill merger. | Will leaders muster the will to save the euro?
82 2012-06-04 Documents on the largest Wall Street bankruptcy since the financial crisis.
83 2012-06-04 Also, sales of the Sunday edition of Rupert Murdoch's Sun tabloid have yet to match The News of the World's circulation figures; and Anthony Bourdain moves to CNN....
84 2012-06-04 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
85 2012-06-04 “They got a bit too comfortable and seemed to ignore the chief investment office,” said one of the former bankers, who insisted on anonymity because the loss is under investigation by a host of regulators.

JPMorgan officials insist there was no structural flaw in risk management or setting position limits. “The chief risk officer has direct authority for the risk management of the entire firm, including oversight of the chief investment office,” said Kristin Lemkau, a spokeswoman for the bank.

But the critics maintain that having successfully navigated the financial crisis in 2008, JPMorgan’s risk officers became complacent about the danger posed by the chief investment office’s increasingly aggressive bets. In addition, while the office was profitable throughout the financial crisis, the chief risk officer was focused on problems elsewhere, including the bank’s money-losing mortgage business.

That complacency also caused JPMorgan Chase to lose ground, even as large rivals overhauled their risk management operations as a result of the crisis. The JPMorgan executives charged with judging risk were paid significantly less than their counterparts at other banks.

“There’s no doubt that there was a sense of overconfidence there,” said Michael Greenberger, a professor of law at the University of Maryland and a former regulator with the United States Commodity Futures Trading Commission.

The $2 billion loss does not threaten the overall health of JPMorgan Chase, which is still expected to report a substantial profit for the second quarter. But it is an embarrassing stumble for the bank, the nation’s biggest financial institution, and has emboldened regulators in Washington who are in the last stages of writing new rules for the entire industry.

It has also refocused attention on internal risk controls across the banking sector, despite the changes that have been made since the financial crisis.

“There have been increased efforts to improve risk controls,” Mr. Greenberger said. “But it wouldn’t surprise me if three or four months from now, there is another explosion somewhere else.”

Jamie Dimon, the bank’s chief executive, has acknowledged the trades were “sloppy” and “stupid,” but JPMorgan officials insist that nothing was fundamentally wrong with the risk-management structure or the ability of the chief risk officer to head off trades that endangered the bank.

While Mr. Dimon earned a reputation as a keen judge of risk, especially in the financial crisis, JPMorgan’s own chief risk officer earned less than some of his peers at rival financial giants. At Citigroup, for example, the chief risk officer, Brian Leach, earned $9 million in 2011, making him that company’s fourth-highest paid executive. At JPMorgan, Barry Zubrow, the chief risk officer until January and now in charge of corporate and regulatory affairs, was not among the top tier in compensation, and his pay is not disclosed. By contrast, Ina Drew, the executive who led the chief investment office, was near the top.

Ms. Drew, who has been blamed for the debacle and resigned last month, earned roughly $14 million in 2011, making her the fourth-highest paid executive at the bank. Nor was Mr. Zubrow among the highest-paid executives at JPMorgan in 2010, when Ms. Drew earned more than $15 million. At Bank of America that year, the chief risk officer Bruce R. Thompson was the highest-paid executive, making $11.4 million.

Compensation is more than a matter of ego for risk officers, said Dave Gibbons, a managing director at Promontory Financial Group, a consulting firm that works with banks. “The chief risk officer needs to be high enough in the organization to command stature, and the C.R.O.’s compensation needs to complement that stature,” Mr. Gibbons said. “The position should be equal to the C.E.O.’s other direct reports. It doesn’t work to try to control the risk behavior of business leaders from a subordinate position, organizationally or culturally.”

The trading loss has also focused attention on how corporate boards handle the issue of companywide risk, said William Patterson, executive director of the CtW Investment Group, which represents union pension funds. Mr. Patterson delivered the initial warning to JPMorgan executives at a meeting in April 2011 that included James Crown, a board member, and Mr. Zubrow.

“We have been deeply concerned about whether the board is effectively monitoring risk appetite and setting up internal controls,” Mr. Patterson said in an interview last week. Specifically, Mr. Patterson told the executives that the three-person board panel that was responsible for monitoring overall risk-taking lacked sufficient familiarity with the more technical aspects of finance and banking.

One of the three members, Ellen V. Futter, is the president of the American Museum of Natural History, and a former president of Barnard College. Another, Mr. Crown, is a real estate heir who runs his family’s investment firm.

That lack of risk expertise made it hard for the board’s risk committee to question the information provided by senior bank officials as the chief investment office’s bets were growing, said Cliff Rossi, a former senior risk officer at Citigroup who is now on the finance faculty at the University of Maryland’s Robert H. Smith School of Business.

“You need a board with sufficient knowledge so they have the ability to ask tough questions,” Mr. Rossi said. “It’s sort of like being a good detective.”

At Bank of America, the board’s risk committee includes Susan S. Bies, a former Federal Reserve Board governor, and Frank P. Bramble, a longtime banker.

In a letter to JPMorgan officials in April 2011, shortly before the meeting at JPMorgan, Mr. Patterson noted the improvements in board-level risk management undertaken by other big banks. “JPMorgan’s board significantly trails its peers in these efforts,” he wrote, “having taken very few visible steps to enhance its oversight of risk or recruit new director talent since the financial crisis.”

Now, in the wake of the trading loss, JPMorgan is expected to change the composition of its risk committee by adding current board members with more relevant experience, possibly including Timothy P. Flynn, the former chairman of the accounting giant KPMG.

Another problem, Mr. Patterson said, is that JPMorgan’s board has been too deferential to top executives, including Mr. Zubrow and Mr. Dimon.

JPMorgan had an “old-fashioned model of governance where the board picks the best chief executive and then takes a back seat,” Mr. Patterson said.
86 2012-06-04 Gary Cahill of England was ruled out of Euro 2012 after fracturing his jaw in the final warm-up match against Belgium. England is also without Frank Lampard and Gareth Barry ahead of the June 11 opener against France.
87 2012-06-04 Tiger Woods’s agent, Mark Steinberg, was arrested on charges of driving while intoxicated. The police say Steinberg was stopped during a sobriety checkpoint Saturday night in Ardsley, N.Y., and arrested on D.W.I. and aggravated D.W.I. charges. Sgt. David Fisher says Steinberg, who told authorities who he was, had a blood alcohol content of .18 percent. The legal limit in New York is .08 percent.
88 2012-06-04 A look at the men's fourth-round singles matches on Monday at the French Open....
89 2012-06-04 He called his commanding officer and told him that he was not AWOL, but he was going to be a few days late.

It was perhaps the first time Puhich subverted the chain of command but hardly the last, as the folks who have watched him develop riding talents like Bill Mahorney, Marco Castaneda and Tyler Baze can attest.

“Mario may think Ivan works for him, but it’s the other way around,” said Mike Pegram, a friend and horse owner whose colt Real Quiet’s bid to sweep the Triple Crown came up a nostril short in the 1998 Belmont. “He’s a teacher, a builder of character and a big-hearted man, who when he gives you his word it means something.”

Puhich taught Pegram’s brother Jim the jockey’s agent business. He also took Pegram’s son Tim into his home and “taught him to be a man.”

Puhich has been known to tell strangers who are looking for him that he is the “oldest, biggest, ugliest” guy inhabiting Clockers’ Corner, the terrace turned town hall each morning alongside the track at Santa Anita. In reality, Puhich looks like the rough–and-tumble ex-boxer he once was — broad-shouldered, barrel-chested and a flat face warmed up often by a smile.

Puhich is serious about his passions — he is a rabid San Francisco 49ers fan who heads north for many home games and is famous for his tailgate parties, especially a knee-wobbling libation called Apple Delight, a recipe he is reluctant to pass on.

He may be demanding of his riders, but he is even more devoted to them than his Niners. Puhich made Baze work nearly 1,000 horses in the morning before he let him ride in a race in the afternoon. It paid off when Baze was given the Eclipse Award as the nation’s outstanding apprentice jockey in 2000.

“Ivan also cooked every meal for that kid and treated him like a son,” Pegram said. “He still does.”

The two were atop the national jockey standings when they parted a couple of years ago after Puhich’s health issues commanded most of his attention.

Last year, he lost his son Steve, 51, to a heart attack, and those closest to him were worried that he was losing his will to live. In late December, however, he was hosting a birthday party for one of his nephews when he was introduced to a young rider who did not have much going on and was just as down in the dumps.

The rider, Gutierrez, was 25 and homesick to return to Hastings Racecourse in Canada, where he was a big fish in a really small pond.

“He was riding four or five horses,” Puhich said. “I don’t know why, but I liked the kid and told him I’d take a look.”

Over the next week or so, after seeing Gutierrez atop a horse, Puhich’s 4 a.m. wake-up calls and morning drives to the track took on more purpose.

“I’ve been doing this since 1944,” he said. “I should know a rider when I see him.”

Puhich had a rider again, and he started working the barns, calling in favors. Doug O’Neill was among the first to pay him back: he had a horse named I’ll Have Another that none of the big-name California jockeys wanted to ride.

O’Neill promised to let Gutierrez work him in the morning and see what might be. The colt’s owner, Paul Reddam, also liked what he saw from Gutierrez. He agreed to let him ride I’ll Have Another in the Robert Lewis Stakes and horse and rider won at 43-1.

They won the Santa Anita Derby next, then galloped into the limelight with a 15-1 score in the Kentucky Derby. When they ran down Bodemeister in the Preakness and won, I’ll Have Another, Gutierrez and Puhich landed at the doorstep of history and a chance to win the Triple Crown.

No matter what happens Saturday, Puhich is grateful. His martinis taste better than they ever have. He is pumping iron at the gym with more zeal. He is laughing more and perhaps even surrendering to his kinder, gentler impulses.

Last week, he told Gutierrez to forget about riding in California and go take a vacation in Canada away from the limelight.

The “kid” has been perfect and Puhich wants him to stay that way.

“Has he done anything wrong on that horse?” Puhich said. “He’s a real cool cat.”

Same could be said for his old jockey’s agent.
90 2012-06-04 The Drug Policy Alliance, an advocacy group critical of the Police Department’s marijuana arrest policies, found that only a modest decline in the arrests followed Mr. Kelly’s memorandum.

Though the governor’s legislation does not address the high number of stops by the police, it would take aim at what many black and Hispanic lawmakers as well as advocacy groups say has been one of the most damaging results of the aggressive police tactics: arrest records for young people who have small amounts of marijuana in their pockets.

“For individuals who have any kind of a record, even a minuscule one, the obstacles are enormous to employment and to education,” said , the executive director of the . “When it’s really a huge number of kids in the community who go through this, and all have the same story, the impact is just devastating.”

The police in New York City made 50,684 arrests last year for possession of a small amount of marijuana, more than for any other offense, according to an analysis of state data by Harry G. Levine, a sociologist at .  The arrests continued — one in seven arrests made in the city was for low-level marijuana possession — even as Commissioner Kelly issued his directive.

Mr. Bloomberg has opposed ending arrests for the possession of small amounts of marijuana. His administration has argued that the arrests serve to reduce more serious crime by deterring drug dealing and the violence that can accompany the drug trade. A spokesman for the mayor declined to comment Sunday.

Mr. Cuomo plans to announce his support for the change at a news conference at the Capitol. While his push comes late in the year’s legislative session, which is scheduled to end June 21, the governor has been successful in his first 17 months in office at focusing attention on a limited number of legislative priorities and persuading lawmakers to address them quickly.

“This proposal will bring long overdue consistency and fairness to New York State’s Penal Law and save thousands of New Yorkers, particularly minority youth, from the unnecessary and life-altering trauma of a criminal arrest and, in some cases, prosecution,” an administration official said in an e-mail.

It would also save law enforcement “countless man-hours wasted” on arrests and prosecutions “for what is clearly only a minor offense,” the official added.

Officials in the Cuomo administration said the marijuana-possession arrests were problematic in part because they subjected New Yorkers, many of them young, to the process of being booked, retaining a lawyer and carrying the stigma of having been arrested. And they argued that the arrests were harming the relationship between the police and young people.

More than a dozen states have decriminalized possession of small amounts of marijuana, including last year and the year before. In New York, the Legislature in 1977 reduced the penalty for possession of 25 grams or less of marijuana to a violation, which carries a maximum fine of $100 for first-time offenders.

But it remains a misdemeanor if the marijuana is in public view or is being smoked in public, and lawmakers and drug-reform advocates have argued that the misdemeanor charge is often unfairly applied to suspects who did not have marijuana in public view until the police stopped them and told them to empty their pockets.

“Now it’s in public view,” Professor Levine said. “If you go by the police reports, all around New York City, there are people standing around with their palms outstretched with a bit of marijuana in them.”

From 2002 to 2011, New York City recorded 400,000 low-level marijuana arrests, according to his analysis. That represented more arrests than under Mr. Bloomberg’s three predecessors put together — a period of 24 years. Most of those arrested have been young black and Hispanic men, and most had no prior criminal convictions.

Mr. Cuomo’s action comes after a number of state legislators and City Council members, many of them representing neighborhoods with large minority populations, have sought ways to force change at the Police Department.

In Albany, some lawmakers have proposed legislation that would prevent police officers from stopping people based only on their race or ethnicity, and that would create an inspector general to oversee the Police Department.

And Assemblyman , Democrat of , and State Senator Mark J. Grisanti, Republican of , have pressed a bill to end low-level marijuana arrests.

Mr. Cuomo’s proposal would reduce the penalty for the possession of 25 grams or less of marijuana in public view to a violation.

It would continue to classify public marijuana smoking as a misdemeanor, unlike the bill proposed by Mr. Jeffries and Mr. Grisanti, which would decriminalize it.
91 2012-06-04 It could have been Williamsburg, Brooklyn, or Abbot Kinney Boulevard in Los Angeles, but the truck was parked at the north end of the Canal St.-Martin on the Right Bank

“It’s against my religion to wait for a burger,” said Guillaume Farges, who was near the front of the line, which began to form at 5:30 p.m., though the truck would not open until 7. “But for this one, I make an exception.”

American chefs are at the helm of some of Paris’s hippest restaurants, like Daniel Rose of Spring, Kevin O’Donnell of L’Office and Braden Perkins of Verjus. And the city’s collective crush on high-end hamburgers continues: Parisians are paying 29 euros, or just over $36, for the popular burger at Ralph’s, the Hamptons-Wyoming-chic restaurant in the palatial Ralph Lauren store.

“Younger Parisians are really into the New York food scene and the California lifestyle,” said Jordan Feilders, 28, who started Cantine California in March. “There’s a good trans-Atlantic food vibe going on Twitter and Facebook.”

Mr. Feilders was raised in France, but his family has roots in Canada and the United States, and he was living in Los Angeles before moving back to Paris last year to inaugurate the truck. From the start, he said, his vision included stylish visuals, American cupcakes and fresh tortillas.

The truck is chocolate brown and decorated with bright phrases like “Fresh Cut Fries” and “Real Cheese.” In designing it, Mr. Feilders said, he chose for it to “speak” in English.

“We drive by the Louvre every day,” Mr. Feilders said. “And I imagine the kings and queens of France looking out the window, thinking, What the heck was that?”

Many Parisians have never eaten a soft taco, much less one stuffed with succulent pork carnitas and chipotles in adobo — which, along with the masa harina for the tacos, Mr. Feilders imports directly from Mexico.

For other ingredients, instead of shopping at Rungis, the enormous wholesale market outside Paris that caters to chefs, he has cultivated direct relationships with suppliers, like a cooperative in the Poitou-Charentes region that distributes certified organic beef and pork, and a mill in the Rhône-Alpes that sells the organic flour that goes into his cupcakes. (The cream cheese for the frosting, however, is Philadelphia brand.)

After rejecting many brioche and baguette variations as burger buns, he found one with the right combination of lightness, mildness and chew at a bakery that caters to Muslims. This Tunisian “Ramadan bread” also has sesame seeds on top, just like a proper American bun. And to get the right texture for the burger itself, he grinds in an additional measure of fat, creating a patty much juicier than the normal French ground-beef mixture.

On a bright morning last month at the Marché St.-Honoré, a weekly market in an elegant residential section of Paris, several sleekly dressed women struggled to lift the thick burgers to their mouths gracefully. (In French restaurants, and sometimes even fast-food joints, burgers are eaten with utensils, not hands.) A few brave souls were trying to eat tacos with a knife and fork. “C’est pas trop épicé,” said one, encouraging a tentative friend — “It’s not too spicy,” high praise from the chile-fearing French.

Street food itself isn’t new to France. At outdoor markets like this one, there is often a truck selling snacks like pizza, crepes or spicy Moroccan merguez sausages, cooked on griddles and stuffed into baguettes.

But the idea of street food made by chefs, using restaurant-grade ingredients, technique and technology, is very new indeed.

Gilles Choukroun, a chef and outspoken advocate for the globalization of French cuisine, said that about five years ago chefs here began to pay attention to street food, as they saw their counterparts in New York, Los Angeles and London trying new ideas outside the confines of a restaurant kitchen.

“The French understand that many new cuisines are coming to light in your country,” he wrote in an e-mail in French. “There are more and more young leaders in the U.S., creating a truly new and interesting cuisine.”

In April, he served his own interpretations of cheeseburgers and milkshakes at an outdoor event called Street Food Graffiti, a “gastro-rock” homage to the film “American Graffiti,” which still enjoys cult status in France.

But American chefs, not French ones, managed to get the first food trucks rolling here.

Ms. Frederick waded through the thick red tape of four separate Paris bureaucracies: the business licensing commissariat; the mairie de Paris, or the local municipal office; the prefecture of police; and the authority that oversees the markets. Unlike some food trucks in the United States, the ones here are not allowed to troll for parking spots, or roam from neighborhood to neighborhood. They are assigned to certain markets and days.

Since the truck’s opening day, Ms. Frederick said, it has sold every last burger on every shift. And it has received the kind of publicity most chefs can only dream about. Its first weeks were covered obsessively on the many English-language blogs — Hip Paris, David Lebovitz, Paris by Mouth and Lost in Cheeseland — that chronicle the food scene here.

Many of the truck’s patrons are American expats, but even more are young Parisians enamored of the informality of New York-style noshing. “We see it on all the police shows on television,” said Sophie Juteau, who was among the first in line for Le Camion Qui Fume’s dinner shift. “Eating from the ice cream trucks, the hot-dog carts: that is, like, our dream.”
92 2012-06-04 ¶Cars.com, Chicago, named the Chicago office of McGarryBowen, part of the Dentsu Network unit of Dentsu, as creative agency of record. The assignment, with spending estimated at $29 million, had been handled by the Chicago office of DDB Worldwide, which did not take part in a review. Cars.com is owned by A.H. Belo, Gannett, McClatchy, Tribune and the Washington Post Company.

¶Daisy Brand, Dallas, selected the Kaplan Thaler Group, New York, part of the Publicis Groupe, as lead creative agency for its Daisy sour cream. Billings were not disclosed. The assignment had been handled by the Dallas office of FKM.

¶Linus Karlsson, chairman and chief creative officer for the London and New York offices of McCann Erickson Worldwide, and Andreas Dahlqvist, vice chairman and executive creative director at McCann Erickson New York, were named to handle new duties while retaining existing duties. Mr. Karlsson becomes chief creative officer for global brands at McCann Erickson and chairman of the agency’s global Creative Leadership Collective; he will continue as chairman of the London and New York offices. Mr. Dahlqvist becomes deputy chief creative officer for global brands, while remaining vice chairman of the New York office. Sean Bryan and Tom Murphy, executive creative directors at McCann Erickson New York, will assume most of the creative duties there that had been handled by Mr. Karlsson and Mr. Dahlqvist as they are promoted to co-chief creative officers. McCann Erickson Worldwide is part of the McCann Worldgroup unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

¶Bobby Pearce, chief creative officer at the Atlanta office of BBDO North America, is leaving, the agency said, to “pursue entrepreneurial endeavors.” Three executive creative directors — Heather Gorman, Cabot Norton and Jeff Spillane — will assume his duties and are being promoted to senior vice presidents.

¶Television networks and channels began late last week to sell commercial time ahead of the start of the 2012-13 season in what is known as the upfront market. The sales were being made to marketers like automakers and movie studios, which traditionally kick off the upfront market each spring. The Web sites of trade publications reported that English-language broadcasters like ABC, CW, Fox and NBC had made at least some deals, along with Viacom, which owns cable channels like Comedy Central and MTV. Adage.com reported that General Motors and its media agency, Carat, part of the Aegis Group, were asking for “significant pricing rollbacks,” which the broadcast networks were refusing to make.
93 2012-06-04 “They got a bit too comfortable and seemed to ignore the chief investment office,” said one of the former bankers, who insisted on anonymity because the loss is under investigation by a host of regulators.

JPMorgan officials insist there was no structural flaw in risk management or setting position limits. “The chief risk officer has direct authority for the risk management of the entire firm, including oversight of the chief investment office,” said Kristin Lemkau, a spokeswoman for the bank.

But the critics maintain that having successfully navigated the financial crisis in 2008, JPMorgan’s risk officers became complacent about the danger posed by the chief investment office’s increasingly aggressive bets. In addition, while the office was profitable throughout the financial crisis, the chief risk officer was focused on problems elsewhere, including the bank’s money-losing mortgage business.

That complacency also caused JPMorgan Chase to lose ground, even as large rivals overhauled their risk management operations as a result of the crisis. The JPMorgan executives charged with judging risk were paid significantly less than their counterparts at other banks.

“There’s no doubt that there was a sense of overconfidence there,” said Michael Greenberger, a professor of law at the University of Maryland and a former regulator with the United States Commodity Futures Trading Commission.

The $2 billion loss does not threaten the overall health of JPMorgan Chase, which is still expected to report a substantial profit for the second quarter. But it is an embarrassing stumble for the bank, the nation’s biggest financial institution, and has emboldened regulators in Washington who are in the last stages of writing new rules for the entire industry.

It has also refocused attention on internal risk controls across the banking sector, despite the changes that have been made since the financial crisis.

“There have been increased efforts to improve risk controls,” Mr. Greenberger said. “But it wouldn’t surprise me if three or four months from now, there is another explosion somewhere else.”

Jamie Dimon, the bank’s chief executive, has acknowledged the trades were “sloppy” and “stupid,” but JPMorgan officials insist that nothing was fundamentally wrong with the risk-management structure or the ability of the chief risk officer to head off trades that endangered the bank.

While Mr. Dimon earned a reputation as a keen judge of risk, especially in the financial crisis, JPMorgan’s own chief risk officer earned less than some of his peers at rival financial giants. At Citigroup, for example, the chief risk officer, Brian Leach, earned $9 million in 2011, making him that company’s fourth-highest paid executive. At JPMorgan, Barry Zubrow, the chief risk officer until January and now in charge of corporate and regulatory affairs, was not among the top tier in compensation, and his pay is not disclosed. By contrast, Ina Drew, the executive who led the chief investment office, was near the top.

Ms. Drew, who has been blamed for the debacle and resigned last month, earned roughly $14 million in 2011, making her the fourth-highest paid executive at the bank. Nor was Mr. Zubrow among the highest-paid executives at JPMorgan in 2010, when Ms. Drew earned more than $15 million. At Bank of America that year, the chief risk officer Bruce R. Thompson was the highest-paid executive, making $11.4 million.

Compensation is more than a matter of ego for risk officers, said Dave Gibbons, a managing director at Promontory Financial Group, a consulting firm that works with banks. “The chief risk officer needs to be high enough in the organization to command stature, and the C.R.O.’s compensation needs to complement that stature,” Mr. Gibbons said. “The position should be equal to the C.E.O.’s other direct reports. It doesn’t work to try to control the risk behavior of business leaders from a subordinate position, organizationally or culturally.”

The trading loss has also focused attention on how corporate boards handle the issue of companywide risk, said William Patterson, executive director of the CtW Investment Group, which represents union pension funds. Mr. Patterson delivered the initial warning to JPMorgan executives at a meeting in April 2011 that included James Crown, a board member, and Mr. Zubrow.

“We have been deeply concerned about whether the board is effectively monitoring risk appetite and setting up internal controls,” Mr. Patterson said in an interview last week. Specifically, Mr. Patterson told the executives that the three-person board panel that was responsible for monitoring overall risk-taking lacked sufficient familiarity with the more technical aspects of finance and banking.

One of the three members, Ellen V. Futter, is the president of the American Museum of Natural History, and a former president of Barnard College. Another, Mr. Crown, is a real estate heir who runs his family’s investment firm.

That lack of risk expertise made it hard for the board’s risk committee to question the information provided by senior bank officials as the chief investment office’s bets were growing, said Cliff Rossi, a former senior risk officer at Citigroup who is now on the finance faculty at the University of Maryland’s Robert H. Smith School of Business.

“You need a board with sufficient knowledge so they have the ability to ask tough questions,” Mr. Rossi said. “It’s sort of like being a good detective.”

At Bank of America, the board’s risk committee includes Susan S. Bies, a former Federal Reserve Board governor, and Frank P. Bramble, a longtime banker.

In a letter to JPMorgan officials in April 2011, shortly before the meeting at JPMorgan, Mr. Patterson noted the improvements in board-level risk management undertaken by other big banks. “JPMorgan’s board significantly trails its peers in these efforts,” he wrote, “having taken very few visible steps to enhance its oversight of risk or recruit new director talent since the financial crisis.”

Now, in the wake of the trading loss, JPMorgan is expected to change the composition of its risk committee by adding current board members with more relevant experience, possibly including Timothy P. Flynn, the former chairman of the accounting giant KPMG.

Another problem, Mr. Patterson said, is that JPMorgan’s board has been too deferential to top executives, including Mr. Zubrow and Mr. Dimon.

JPMorgan had an “old-fashioned model of governance where the board picks the best chief executive and then takes a back seat,” Mr. Patterson said.
94 2012-06-04 While antivirus companies might catch some, he says, only an international treaty that would ban militaries and spy agencies from making viruses will truly solve the problem.

The wide disclosure of the details of the Flame virus by Kaspersky Lab also seems intended to promote the Russian call for a ban on cyberweapons like those that blocked poison gas or expanding bullets from the armies of major nations and other entities.

And that puts the Russian company in a difficult position because it already faces suspicions that it is tied to the Russian government, accusations Mr. Kaspersky has constantly denied as he has built his business.

While Russian officials have not commented on the discovery of Flame, the Russian minister of telecommunications gave a speech, also in May, calling for an international cyberweapon ban. has also pushed for a bilateral treaty with the United States.

The United States has agreed to discuss such a disarmament treaty with the Russians, but has also tried to encourage Russia to prosecute online crime, which flourishes in this country.

The United States has long objected to the Russian crusade for an online arms control ban. “There is no broad international support for a cyberweapon ban,” says James A. Lewis, a senior fellow at the in . “This is a global diplomatic ploy by the Russians to take down a perceived area of U.S. military advantage.”

Russia, many security experts note, has been accused of using in disputes with and wars in .

Mr. Kaspersky said that at no point did he cooperate with the Federal Security Agency, the successor agency to the , as the Flame virus was not a threat to Russian citizens.

Kaspersky Lab, he said, felt justified exposing the Flame virus because the company was working under the auspices of a agency. But the company has been noticeably silent on viruses perpetrated in its own backyard, where Russian-speaking criminal syndicates controlled a third of the estimated $12 billion global cybercrime market last year, according to the Russian security firm Group-IB.

Some say there is good reason. “He’s got family,” said Sean Sullivan, an adviser at F-Secure, a computer security firm in . “I wouldn’t expect them to be the most aggressive about publicizing threats in their neighborhood for fear those neighbors would retaliate.”

Last year, Mr. Kaspersky’s 19-year-old son was kidnapped by criminals demanding a ransom. The kidnappers did not appear to have ties to any of Russia’s online criminal syndicates, but Mr. Sullivan says, “It was probably a wake-up call.”

Some computer security firms say Mr. Kaspersky’s researchers have hyped Flame. It is too early, his critics say, to call the virus a “cyberweapon” and to suggest it was sponsored by a state.

Joe Jaroch, a vice president at Webroot, an antivirus maker, says he first encountered a sample of Flame in 2007. He says he did not publicize the discovery because he did not consider the code sophisticated. “There are many more dangerous viruses out there,” he said. “I would be shocked if this was the work of a nation state.”

Mr. Sullivan, from F-Secure, said: “It’s interesting and complex, but not sleek and stealthy. It could be the work of a military contractor — , , and other contractors are developing programs like these for different intelligence services. To call it a cyberweapon says more about Kaspersky’s cold war mentality than anything else. It has to be taken with a grain of salt.”

Whether the skepticism is authentic or professional jealousy, no one doubts the Kaspersky Lab’s skills. Mr. Kaspersky studied cryptography at a high school that was co-sponsored by the K.G.B. and Russia’s ministry of defense, and later took a job with the Russian military. He started tracking computer viruses as a side project in 1989, after his work PC was infected with one. In 1997, he co-founded Kaspersky Lab with his wife at the time, Natalya, in their Moscow apartment.

The headquarters of the team that unraveled Flame is an open-plan office of cubicles overlooking a park on the edge of Moscow. Mr. Kaspersky eschews suits and his researchers wear Converse shoes and tattered jeans, much as their counterparts in the United States do. A Darth Vader mask adorns one desk.

Talent also abounds. The Belarussian virus hunter who first found the Stuxnet virus in 2010, Sergei Ulasen, now works for Kaspersky Lab.

Today, the company is one of Russia’s most recognizable exports. It commands 8 percent of the world’s software security market for businesses, with revenue reaching $612 million last year.

Yet Mr. Kaspersky says he often has to dispute suggested ties to Russia’s security services. Analysts say suspicions about the firm’s Russian roots have hindered its expansion abroad.

“The U.S. government, defense contractors and lots of U.S. companies won’t work with them,” said Peter Firstbrook, director of malware research at Gartner, a research firm. “There’s no evidence that they have any back doors in their software or any ties to the Russian mafia or state. It’s a red herring, but there is still a concern that you can’t operate in Russia without being controlled by the ruling party.”

Mr. Kaspersky said his company tackled Flame upon the request of the International Telecommunication Union, an agency of the United Nations. He assigned about three dozen engineers to investigate a virus that was erasing files on computers at Iran’s oil ministry. Kaspersky researchers, some of whom had analyzed suspected United States and Israeli viruses that destroyed centrifuges in Iran’s nuclear program two years earlier, were already following up on complaints from Iranian clients that Kaspersky’s antivirus software was not catching a new type of malware on their systems, Kaspersky officials said.

“We saw an unusual structure of the code, compressed and encrypted in several ways,” Vitaly Kamlyuk, a researcher on the team that cracked the virus.

It was the first virus to look for Bluetooth-enabled devices in the vicinity, either to spread to those devices, map a user’s social or professional circle, or steal information from them. The program also contained a command called “microbe” that silently turned on users’ microphones to record their conversations and sent audio files back to the attackers. It was clearly not a virus made by criminals.

“Antivirus companies are in a not easy situation,” Mr. Kaspersky said. “We have to protect our customers everywhere in the world. On the other hand, we understand there are quite serious powers behind these viruses.”

Even though finding viruses first is usually a boon for antivirus companies, cracking Flame, Mr. Kaspersky said, might hurt his business in one regard. “For the next five years, we can forget about government contracts in the United States.”
95 2012-06-04 Mr. Duane, who was a pivotal figure during the recent battle over , said that he had only begun to think seriously about retiring a few weeks ago, around the time that he and his longtime partner, Louis Webre, attended the wedding of Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker and his former chief of staff, and Kim M. Catullo.

Mr. Duane said he did not know what he would do after his term ends on Dec. 31. But he did rule out becoming a lobbyist, and said he had no plans to run for office again.

“I am going to fight for people and in my own small way try to make the world a better place,” he said. “I’m never going to stop doing that.”

With Republicans now holding a slim majority in the Senate, Mr. Duane’s departure is unlikely to alter Albany’s balance of power, since whoever wins the Democratic primary on Sept. 13 will be an overwhelming favorite in November.

The shortlist could include State Assembly members and Brian Kavanaugh. Other possibilities are Brad Hoylman and Corey Johnson, the chairmen of Community Boards 2 and 4.

Mr. Duane, a native New Yorker who grew up in Flushing, , first joined the family business as a Wall Street stockbroker. But he drifted into public service, volunteering for his community board and working for , then city comptroller.

Mr. Duane became one of the first two openly gay members elected to the City Council in 1991, when, with Ms. Quinn as his campaign manager, he fended off Liz Abzug, the daughter of the feminist icon . The race was a heated one, in which Liz Abzug declared that she was a lesbian, Mr. Duane announced that he was H.I.V. positive, and each side accused the other of crass politics.

After losing to in a Congressional primary in 1994, Mr. Duane was elected to the State Senate in 1998. Among his signature achievements are bipartisan efforts to close loopholes for people trying to avoid child- and spousal-support payments; a requirement that plans cover treatment for mental illness; the addition of sexual orientation to the list of protected categories in state laws; and the improvement of medical and care for prisoners. He is also known as a fierce advocate for tenants’ and civil rights.

The loquacious Mr. Duane is also well known for taking the oral equivalent of the scenic route, with lots of detours, when talking about policy issues, and even when discussing his previous addiction to alcohol and drugs.

He came under a glaring spotlight during the initial, failed attempt to pass same-sex marriage legislation, highlighted by a heartfelt if rambling 21-minute speech in 2009 on the Senate floor.

One top gay rights leader complained to the news media that Mr. Duane had been all talk and little action, and that his meandering speech left people “concerned about his leadership on other issues.”

But Mr. Duane bounced back during last year’s successful push for same-sex marriage, and he was present when Gov. signed the bill.

In an interview, Ms. Quinn said Mr. Duane had inspired countless gay men and lesbians around the country. He was such a pioneer, she said, that friends had joked that, in virtually every article about him, “ ‘Who Was Gay’ was his middle name.”

But as he racked up legislative victories, she said, “that began to fade away, and he showed that you can be exactly who you are, and be respected and looked to beyond L.G.B.T. issues.”
96 2012-06-04 Richard Dawson, the British-born actor and comedian who played a larcenous prisoner of war on the comedy “Hogan’s Heroes” and became a star as the dapper and gregarious host of the game show “Family Feud,” died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 79.

The cause was complications of esophageal cancer, his son Gary wrote on his Facebook page on Sunday.

From an impoverished upbringing in post-World War II England, Mr. Dawson, whose earliest aspiration was to be a dockworker, became one of the most well-known television personalities in the 1970s and ’80s. He won a daytime Emmy in 1978 for his work on “Family Feud.”

Mr. Dawson, who rankled television executives and made housewives blush with his tendency to kiss nervous female contestants, was the host on the show’s initial run, from 1976 to 1985. Two families would compete against each other trying to guess the most popular answer to survey questions like, “Name the room in your house that is most in need of redecorating,” or, “Name something people do to entertain a baby.”

It was among the most popular game shows in the country, leading to a nighttime syndicated version that eventually was broadcast five days a week. Television executives at times tried to get Mr. Dawson to stop the kissing, he said. Some viewers complained when he pecked the cheeks of women of different races.

Mr. Dawson said he actively fought any discrimination in this regard.

“It’s very important to me that on ‘Family Feud’ I could kiss all people,” he said in a 2010 interview for the Archive of American Television. “I kissed black women daily and nightly on ‘Family Feud’ for 11 years, and the world didn’t come to an end, did it?”
97 2012-06-04 The dabke is a line dance of the Levant. At weddings in Jordan, Lebanon and Syria, people link up arm to shoulder or hand in hand and stomp out rhythms and patterns. Israelis, so often at odds with their neighbors, also have a version. Dances are easier to share than territory.

Now Zvi Gotheiner, who was born and reared on a kibbutz in Israel but who has had a long career as a choreographer in New York, has appropriated the dabke for his own purposes. (He did his research on YouTube.) Along with “Coupling,” six inventive duets from a larger work in progress, Mr. Gotheiner’s “Dabke” was performed by his company, ZviDance, in world premieres, at New York Live Arts on Thursday.

It is a contemporary work that borrows traditional elements, and at first, the mixture is awkward. Todd Allen starts alone, doing some dabke in the dance equivalent of singing to himself. Others come and go, some fleetingly linking up with Mr. Allen, but most doing their own conventionally modern-dance thing.

Eventually the stamping dabke rhythm becomes a rhythmic impulse, the dabke line a structural element. The work is most formally interesting when Mr. Gotheiner fractures and complicates that line. Human chains keep assembling and dissolving. People connect, hand in hand, but that connection can also yank them in directions they may not want to go.

References to specific tribal identities are hard to spot, but gender differences are unmistakable. Twice a dabke trio involving Mr. Allen, Alex Biegelson and Samantha Harvey jettisons Ms. Harvey to become an aggressive male-male duet (a comment, the program note suggests, on virile Israeli masculinity). The participation of women in dabke is a point of controversy.

The political content is most explicit in a solo for Mr. Allen. Removing his shirt, he makes of it a prayer mat, a bandage, a gun, a banner, a handkerchief, a rag to wipe the ground, a rock to throw. When Chelsea Ainsworth goes topless to join him, the meanings inevitably shift.
98 2012-06-04 “You know, I’m not worried,” Djokovic said. “I’m just hoping I can wake up tomorrow, knowing that I’m in a quarterfinal, and I just want to deliver my best performance in the next challenge, forget this match today, take the best out of it. I’m proud that I’ve been fighting and coming back from two sets down. That’s all I can say now.”

Djokovic — now 16-5 in five-set matches — will next face the winner of the Sunday match between Jo-Wilfried Tsonga and Stan Wawrinka. After that Djokovic could face his longtime rival Roger Federer in the semifinals. Federer had a pyramid-rattling moment of his own on the Lenglen Court on Sunday as he lost the first set to David Goffin, a 21-year-old lucky loser from Belgium who looks younger. Goffin has idolized Federer since childhood and was playing him for the first time and also playing in his first Grand Slam tournament.

It had to have been surreal after watching Federer for so long on screens to suddenly see him across the net at Roland Garros: that familiar whipped forehand, that sliced one-handed backhand, that shake of the head (and hair) between points. But Goffin also got to see Federer’s pursed lips and furrowed brow as he answered the Swiss champion’s spin and artistry with plenty of legerdemain of his own.

Goffin conjured touch volleys, surprise forehand winners on the round and even a drop volley winner to end a point full of improvisation in the fourth and final set that earned him a standing ovation from the crowd. He responded by grinning and bowing three times.

When it ended with Federer winning, 5-7, 7-5, 6-2, 6-4, French Open officials broke protocol by interviewing both the winner and loser on court side by side. “I won’t hide from you that I had photos of Roger all over my room,” Goffin told the crowd.

It was a terrific moment and Federer, a 16-time Grand Slam singles champion soon to turn 31, handled it graciously, encouraging the youngster to speak with him in the locker room. “You shouldn’t be shy with me,” he said. “I think I’m one of the most relaxed former No.1’s on tour.”

Interviews over, the two men gave the crowd what it had been chanting for and embraced, but Federer, who will face Juan Martín Del Potro or Tomas Berdych in the quarterfinals, has less lighthearted moments ahead. He has already dropped a set each to three players ranked well below him.

Cibulkova — a diminutive, go-go Slovak very appropriately nicknamed “The Pocket Rocket” — has twice been on the verge of knocking out Azarenka’s defenses in the past two years. Cibulkova was up, 6-3, 3-1, on a Miami hard court in 2011 only to lose the edge. She was up, 6-1, 5-2, this year in the same place only to blow it again.

But to her credit, there were no signs of lost belief on Sunday. With her long braided ponytail swinging behind her as she launched herself into serves and ground strokes, Cibulkova — the shortest player in the top 100 at 1.6 meters, or 5-foot-3 — kept hustling and exhorting herself, even with the prospect of another collapse in the second set.

But this was a different city, a different surface, and though Azarenka is the world No.1, she will not be at the end of this French Open if Maria Sharapova, currently ranked No.2, manages to reach the final.

“I think she plays much better against the top players than maybe a little bit lower-ranked players,” Azarenka said of Cibulkova. “She really has that desire. I don’t know what motivates her to play that way. Yeah, she’s a dangerous opponent. She had big wins before, and it was no surprise that she was going to be playing well today.”

It was a surprise — perhaps even to Cibulkova — that she managed to recover her balance after losing her way with a 4-2 lead in the second set. Azarenka later served for the set at 6-5, but Cibulkova had stopped her momentum and her own recurring nightmare, breaking back to force a tiebreaker and then winning it on her second match point with the drop shot-passing shot combination play that worked well for her throughout the match.

“Today it was a great thing that I managed to go through these emotions,” Cibulkova, 23, said. “She was 6-5 up, and I said, ‘Hey, come on. You know, you have to play your game again and just make it.’ And for the tiebreak, I’m very, very proud of myself that I was still going for my shots. And I just made it, because she would never give me the match.”

Presumably not, but Azarenka, the 22-year-old from Belarus who was playing her first Grand Slam tournament with the No.1 ranking, was clearly not at her ferocious best on clay this year. On the new blue surface in Madrid, she was overwhelmed in the final by Serena Williams, then retired in Rome, citing an injury to her right shoulder, which is her serving shoulder.

She then nearly lost in the opening round here, rallying from a one-set, 0-4 deficit against the Italian journeywoman Alberta Brianti by hitting a second-serve ace on a break point that could have made it 0-5 in the second set.

After straight-set victories in the next two rounds, Azarenka could not make it past Cibulkova on a cool, overcast day that represented quite a change from the quick, sunny conditions that prevailed in the first seven days of this tournament.

“You have to take that kind of change into account,” said the longtime coach Sven Groeneveld. “It requires a lot of adjustment from the players.”

It required adjustment from Cibulkova, too, of course. So how might Azarenka recover from this blow?

“I’m going to kill myself,” Azarenka said, one hopes, sarcastically. “This tournament is over for me. What’s to recover from? It’s to really look forward and improve. That’s it.”

Perhaps hiring the former world No.1 Amélie Mauresmo of France as her new adviser for this tournament was a bad omen, considering how much Mauresmo struggled to handle the pressure in her home Grand Slam event. But Mauresmo, a thoughtful person whose game was a varied and aesthetic marvel, could clearly bring much to the table in the longer term. “We haven’t really decided anything yet,” Azarenka said. “We’ll see.”

The concern remains Azarenka’s lack of a solid Plan B in matches that are not going her way. Cibulkova clearly feeds on Azarenka’s pace; though the Belarussian did make some attempts to push forward and some attempts to change rhythm with drop shots, she lacked the precision and could also not take advantage of Cibulkova’s limited reach by putting the ball outside her strike zone.

“Before I was at least making something happening myself,” said Azarenka, who had won seven of her eight previous matches against the Slovak. “Today I couldn’t do it. I don’t know. It was just not going for me. I tried everything. It was just not going. All I could hope is just for her mistake.”

There is also — still — Azarenka’s temper, deeply linked to a perfectionist streak and the sacrifices she made to become a champion, which included leaving her family behind in Minsk as a teenager. The volcano within her has held her back over the years, sometimes leaving her crying with thwarted ambition during matches. She has made progress of late, but she has yet to make the transition that Roger Federer made from temperamental junior to poker-faced professional. After Cibulkova rallied from a 0-2 deficit in the first set to go up 3-2, Azarenka raised her racket with menace as if to smash it, thought better of it and then let it fly anyway.

Once she got to her chair, she broke the racket for real on the second swing. It probably felt good, but defeat clearly was not much fun. And after Azarenka had completed her press conference, she returned to the players’ lounge, found a table by herself and had lunch, the French Open continuing outside in the gloom without her.
99 2012-06-04 LOS ANGELES - It's the little things that draw your notice, especially when it comes to celebrity estate sales.     Bonhams, an auction house here, is circulating a catalog for a sale of fine furniture and decorative arts on June 11 and 12. Some o...
100 2012-06-04 LOS ANGELES - It's the little things that draw your notice, especially when it comes to celebrity estate sales.     Bonhams, an auction house here, is circulating a catalog for a sale of fine furniture and decorative arts on June 11 and 12. Some o...
101 2012-06-04 Gary Heyward stood on 125th Street in Harlem, not far from the Apollo Theater, wearing a jumpsuit that was half blue and half orange.     Mr. Heyward, 44, had this odd-looking uniform specially made - part prison guard, part inmate - to illustrate...
102 2012-06-04 Kristen Stewart, some gnarly dwarfs and a bloody fairy tale prevailed, as ''Snow White and the Huntsman'' led the weekend box-office results at North American theaters with about $56.3 million in ticket sales for Universal Pictures. It was an impr...
103 2012-06-05 Samsung is becoming a platinum member of the Linux Foundation, giving $500,000 to the nonprofit in support of the Linux operating system and the open-source projects related to it. The new membership status gives Samsung a seat on the foundation's...
104 2012-06-05 Google has acquired Quickoffice, a start-up that makes a set of applications for iPads and Android tablets that let people open and edit Microsoft Office files....
105 2012-06-05 On Tuesday, Google said it would start warning users anytime it thinks they may be the target of a state-sponsored computer attack....
106 2012-06-05 The National Transportation Safety Board released this video along with its findings on the 2011 crash.
107 2012-06-05 MF Global's crippling bets were only possible because the brokerage firm was able to borrow voraciously in a debt market that also played a big role in the collapses of Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns....
108 2012-06-05 "Chariots of Fire"? Sure. But when compiling a list of the best movies about the Summer Olympics, don't forget "Running Brave" and "American Anthem."...
109 2012-06-05 Apple's Worldwide Developers Conference, where the company has typically unveiled new iPhones, is just a week away. And as usual, the Web is noisy with tech publications claiming to have the scoop on what's to come....
110 2012-06-05 Ice cubes made with low-fat coconut milk give this blended drink extra flavor and texture....
111 2012-06-05 A look at the financial realities of same-sex partnerships.
112 2012-06-05 In Mississippi, two women have asked the governor to spare their brother from execution, even though he killed four of their children....
113 2012-06-05 EQA Partners, a Connecticut-based hedge fund, said on Tuesday that it had hired Randall Kroszner, a former governor of the Federal Reserve whose mandate included bank supervision and regulation....
114 2012-06-05 A daily capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors....
115 2012-06-05 Cal F.C., an amateur club run by Eric Wynalda, faces Seattle of M.L.S. Tuesday night in a fourth-round game of the Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup....
116 2012-06-05 Sam Stosur defeated Dominika Cibulkova in straight sets to advance to the semifinals of the French Open....
117 2012-06-05 As crisis in Europe intensifies, sales drag at American companies. | Energy boom in the Ohio River Valley brings torrent of investment.
118 2012-06-05 Updates from the French Open....
119 2012-06-05 The technology giant said it had acquired Collective Intellect, a social media analysis firm, just a day after Salesforce.com agreed to buy Buddy Media for $689 million....
120 2012-06-05 Citizens and city leaders in New Orleans are pushing to keep the paper printing seven days a week, and not cut back to three days, as the paper's owners have said they will do....
121 2012-06-05 Piyush Pandey of Ogilvy & Mather gets sent up by his brother....
122 2012-06-05 There are reasons to doubt whether Gov. Scott Walker's fate tells us much about what will happen in the presidential race in November....
123 2012-06-05 It is hard to get definitive answers to important questions about lending, but the author - a new contributor to You're the Boss - hopes to help....
124 2012-06-05 Davis Love III qualified for his 23rd United States Open, playing 36 holes in two under in rounds at Scioto Country Club and Ohio State’s Scarlet Course in Upper Arlington, Ohio. He was one of 16 players to advance at the biggest of the 11 qualifiers across the country. Others making the grade included Charlie Wi, Kevin Streelman, D. A. Points, Steve Marino and Rod Pampling.
125 2012-06-05 Two women are asking Gov. Phil Bryant to spare their brother from execution on Tuesday even though he stabbed one of them, killed four of their children, and paralyzed another. Henry Jackson Jr., known as Curtis, killed the children, ages 2 to 5, during a 1990 rampage that began when he went to his mother’s home in Leflore County to rob her safe. His sister, Regina Jackson, was stabbed five times. Her two daughters and two nephews were stabbed to death. Another niece was so severely injured that she was paraplegic until her recent death. In a letter to the governor, Regina Jackson said she “just can’t take any more killing.” Another sister and her husband, Glenda and Andrew Kuyoro, also wrote, saying, “We are not asking you to take pity on Curtis, we’re asking you to show US mercy.”
126 2012-06-05 Changes on this scale would not be easy, involving an arduous process of treaty alterations that could take years, and it is unclear if they would be enough to reassure markets of the stability of the euro. But as Ms. Merkel has repeatedly made clear, Germany would be open to rescuing ailing banks and member states in the region only if that were part of an overhaul of the basic architecture of European governance.

Such an expansion of central authority is not assured of universal support. While the weaker countries might be expected to sign on, it may well be opposed by Britain, which opposed an earlier effort to increase fiscal discipline out of concern for the effect on its banks.

Even less certain are the positions of Italy and, most problematic, France. Neither wants to find itself in the position of answering to fiscal and banking authorities that, fairly or not, will almost inevitably be deemed an arm of the German government.

But almost everyone agrees that something has to be done, and quickly. George Soros, the billionaire hedge fund investor, warned over the weekend that the “political and social dynamics” of the euro zone were “working toward disintegration,” and said that officials had at best a three-month window to repair the internal contradictions of the currency union.

Predictions of the euro’s demise in the absence of bolder action have grown louder as global growth slows, banking-sector woes compound and governments wobble. The mood was further depressed on Monday when the Group of 7 finance ministers said that they would hold an emergency conference call on Tuesday on the crisis and Portugal announced that it would become the latest European country to fall short of its growth forecast.

As the troubles mount, all sides turn to Germany, the only country with the financial wherewithal to calm the turbulence and guarantee the currency zone’s collective solvency.

“Nothing can be done without German support,” Mr. Soros said.

German officials worry that without safeguards on spending and deficits, the country would quickly be bled dry by overspending partners. To forestall that danger, a proposal by the government’s independent council of economic experts to pool excessive debt has garnered increasing attention.

Under the plan, largely ignored when it was introduced late last year, the debt overhang in the 17 members of the euro currency union — defined as any debt exceeding 60 percent of gross domestic product, or nearly $3 trillion by some estimates — would be transferred into a fund that would be paid off over roughly 25 years. The proposal differs from euro bonds in part because it is limited in scope rather than open-ended, which could help win approval by the German Constitutional Court.

“We have the impression due to conversations with government officials that the government is really examining the pact and the proposals,” said Wolfgang Franz, an economics professor at the University of Mannheim and the chairman of the council. “If I reject euro bonds, if I reject the European Central Bank, we don’t have many measures other than hope.”

Hope has been in increasingly short supply. Mr. Barroso said it was necessary to signal that the euro zone “will do whatever is necessary to assure the stability of our currency. We need to do things faster and we need to go further,” Mr. Barroso said Monday at the news conference. “It is now evident that also for the stability of the euro we need some concrete measures regarding the euro area and the European Union in general.”

What took years to develop could take a surprisingly short time to come crashing down, experts say. The answer from Berlin on euro bonds has never been an absolute “no.” It has always been “not yet.” Only a more integrated euro zone will tap Germany’s good credit, Ms. Merkel has made clear, saying time and again that euro bonds come at the end of that process.

Before everyone throws money into one big pot, in other words, Berlin wants commitments to deeper integration, which means individual states giving up sovereignty to a central fiscal authority. Yet, where Germans talk of safeguards, other Europeans howl about dominance and diktats from Berlin.

“It was not us who were stepping on the brakes regarding deeper integration as far back as the Maastricht Treaty,” said a German official, speaking on the condition of anonymity about the confidential negotiations. “But we have to be careful not to push too hard because then resistance would grow.”

European leaders would prefer to debate behind closed doors the steps they can take to slowly knit together their policies into a more stable currency union. But the pressure from nervous financial markets and the fears of a sudden jolt, whether from Greek voters rejecting budget cuts or panicked Spanish depositors withdrawing their life savings, make the likelihood of a cautious, deliberative process lower.

Ms. Merkel also raised on Monday the prospect of “specific European oversight” for systemically important banks as a long-term goal.

Nervousness within Germany, where record-low unemployment and borrowing rates have preserved a calm at the eye of the financial storm, has also begun to grow. Joschka Fischer, a former foreign minister, warned that “the European house is on fire,” and that Ms. Merkel, in her support for austerity policies, “prefers to douse it with kerosene rather than water.”

It is easy to demand a fix, the argument in the chancellery goes, but treaties and charters cannot simply be violated for expediency. “You cannot just sit on principles and say no all the time, but we have to understand where we are headed toward,” said Joachim Scheide, the head of the forecasting center at the Kiel Institute for the World Economy.

“Merkel is slowly adapting to different times because she is afraid of not jumping on the train in time,” said Stefan Kornelius, foreign editor of the German newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung. “She doesn’t want to be the gravedigger for the euro.”
127 2012-06-05 The net metering benefit, which is available to residential and commercial customers with renewable energy systems in more than 40 states and has helped spur a boom in solar installations, is at the heart of a battle. Utilities, consumer advocates and renewable energy developers across the country are fighting over how much financial help to give to solar power and, to a lesser extent, other technologies. Regulators are in the middle, weighing the societal benefits of renewables as well as how best to spread the costs.

Net metering has been so popular that several states are rapidly approaching regulatory limits on how many systems are eligible, meaning new customers have no assurance they can reap the same rewards. The solar industry, which is growing in size and influence, has been pressing to raise those limits to continue to encourage rooftop installations, while the utilities have generally been opposed.

In a closely watched decision that could influence the path of other states, California regulators decided last month to effectively double the amount of solar power capacity eligible for net metering. More than 60,000 people wrote to the Public Utilities Commission in support of raising the cap, which would allow new customers to continue being credited at a high rate for electricity they produce but do not use.

But representatives of the three major utilities that are covered by the decision said it would simply shift the fixed costs of maintaining the electric grid, which are embedded in electric rates, to other customers.

Other states, including New York, Massachusetts, Louisiana and Virginia, have also been reviewing their programs, which are transforming the fundamental relationship between customers and their utilities.

In Massachusetts, which pays net metering customers close to the retail electricity rate, lawmakers recently revised the tariff program to create separate caps for the public and private sectors. The Department of Public Utilities is currently seeking to clarify which entities, like schools and universities, should count against each cap, an issue of some urgency since the private limit is close to being reached.

Some states have also begun to impose new fees as they have increased the amount of power customers are allowed to generate and sell. When Virginia doubled the size of home systems eligible for net metering to 20 kilowatts last year, it allowed the main utility to start charging a monthly fee this year for owners with systems larger than 10 kilowatts.

The policy choices could have profound and lasting effects. The federal Department of Energy envisions a future in which a typical homeowner might feed power into the system from solar panels, small wind turbines or electric vehicles sitting idle in the garage, offsetting charges for power used at a later time and helping provide energy to the system during periods of high demand. Steven Chalk, the deputy assistant secretary for renewable energy, said that net metering was critical to realizing that future, “where users are very involved in what they’re using in terms of demand and what they’re also generating.”

So far, customers using net metering account for just a sliver of the overall electricity market — about 0.1 percent in 2010, according to the Energy Information Administration. But they have been increasing at a fast clip. Between 2003 and 2010, growth averaged 56 percent a year, rising to 155,841 customers from 6,813, with about half in California.

The formulas used to calculate payments to customers vary, with some states using the wholesale price of electricity and others offering the higher retail rate. In California, the incentive is especially generous because residential customers often earn credits during the day, when rates are higher and solar panels are producing power, and draw power against those credits in the evening, when rates are lower.

At the Mount Diablo Unified School District, which has a large project installing systems at its 51 sites east of San Francisco, the advantage is seasonal. The panels produce power in July and August, when the buildings sit idle and rates are highest because of the demand for air-conditioning. Officials estimate that the project, financed through a large bond offering, will cover 95 percent of its electricity needs, which cost $3.5 million last year, said Steven Lawrence, the superintendent.

“If you can’t net meter in the summer months, it definitely doesn’t pencil out,” he said.

But the affected utilities, the three large investor-owned companies operating in the state, say solar customers have been getting a free ride on the backs of regular ratepayers. They use the grid essentially as “a big battery” without covering the cost to maintain it, said Steven E. Malnight, a vice president at Pacific Gas and Electric.

And as more solar customers, often big power users, pay the utilities less, the utilities say they will raise rates to recover their costs from a shrinking customer base.

Dan Skopec, a vice president at San Diego Gas and Electric, said that the transfer to net metering customers could add up to $1.4 billion a year by the time the state reached the new cap. The Public Utilities Commission ordered a study of the costs and effects of net metering on customers when it voted to expand the program. Utility executives would not say whether they would sue over the expansion, but Mr. Skopec said it was “wrong on the law.”

Even some consumer advocates who frequently challenge the utilities are arguing that it is time to rethink the generous rate structure, which was initially put in place to encourage the industry at a time when solar systems were far more expensive to install. With those costs down, it now takes much less time to pay off the investment.

“The goal of net metering should not be to give the shortest possible payback period; we’re not trying to shower people with free money,” said Matthew Freedman, a lawyer at the Utility Reform Network, a California advocacy group that works on behalf of residential ratepayers. “We want to make it a reasonable investment while protecting the interests of all the other customers on the system who have to pay for it.”

For the moment, though, net metering is making evangelists out of customers like Phil Silver. As treasurer of his Santa Monica condominium association, Mr. Silver has seen electric bills plummet for the common areas, which are powered from a solar array. He cannot wait, he said, until they can build a system to feed individual apartments. He is encouraging his sister, who lives in New Jersey, a state with robust incentives, to put panels on her roof.

Calling California an incubator for a fully integrated renewable energy system, he said: “The question we have to ask ourselves is, Do we want to be at the forefront of developing these technologies and providing a market for them, or do we want to lose that momentum that we have?”
128 2012-06-05 The lengthy battle between the N.F.L. and the players’ association over discipline for players said to be involved in the New Orleans Saints’ bounty scandal inched forward Monday when an arbitrator affirmed Commissioner Roger Goodell’s authority to punish the players.

The union had challenged the scope of Goodell’s power, but the arbitrator, Stephen Burbank, a law professor at the University of Pennsylvania, took less than a week to rule.

Goodell suspended Saints linebacker Jonathan Vilma for the entire 2012 season and defensive end Will Smith for four games. The former Saints defensive end Anthony Hargrove, now with Green Bay, was suspended eight games, and linebacker Scott Fujita, now with Cleveland, was suspended three games for involvement in the program. A league investigation determined that for three years, the Saints had a bounty system that focused on specific opposing players for injury and included cash payouts.

The players’ association expects to appeal Burbank’s decision — claiming that salary-cap violations are involved in the payment, meaning an arbitrator, and not Goodell, would be responsible for discipline.

That appeal will add another layer to a situation that seems overwhelmed with paperwork. Among the many locations where the scandal is being disputed: the players’ basic appeals of their suspensions; the union’s appeal to a different arbitrator, Shyam Das, regarding Goodell’s power to discipline players for actions before the current collective bargaining agreement was in place; another claim, also heard by Das, stating that Art Shell and Ted Cottrell should be responsible for handing out discipline in the matter, because they are approved by the league and the union to handle on-field conduct; and the lawsuit against Goodell, filed by Vilma, in which Vilma sued him for defamation. Goodell has until July 5 to respond to the claim.

The union, in a statement, said, “None of the players punished in this case have seen a shred of evidence justifying the N.F.L.’s punishment.” It added, “The union believes that the players are entitled to neutral arbitration of these issues under the C.B.A. and will continue to fight for that principle and to protect the fair due process rights of all players.”
129 2012-06-05 “We need a team here first,” a Nashville official said at the time, “then we’ll build the enthusiasm.”

At one point during his tussle with sports authority officials, McMullen said he regretted moving the former Colorado Rockies to East Rutherford, N.J.; he felt that he had been lied to from the start, that the authority had promised him average attendance of 19,000 a game, a mark the Devils did not usually reach.

“They don’t give a damn about us,” he said. “Aren’t I entitled to break even?”

McMullen, a naval commander and naval architect, was a wonderful owner to cover. He was smart, crabby and chatty. There was nothing corporate about him, except perhaps for his desire to make a profit.

He hated the attention the Rangers got in the New York market. He loved his dog Bubba (putting his image on the wine label of his private brand), counted Yogi Berra as a close friend and famously said that nothing was as limited as being George Steinbrenner’s limited partner in the Yankees.

McMullen and the sports authority accused each other of failing to live up to a lease that was rewritten twice to benefit the team in the years before 1995. Nashville became McMullen’s leverage even if it was hard to believe he would pack up the vans and take the Devils out of his home state.

Nashville was already building an arena, but it had no team as its anchor tenant. It was willing to give the Devils a $20 million relocation bonus and a sweetheart lease, standard inducements to persuade a team to move to a city seeking big-time sports. McMullen knew that no matter what New Jersey officials did, short of total capitulation, Nashville would give him a lot more.

Meanwhile, the Devils, with Martin Brodeur in goal, were driving to the Stanley Cup finals. They beat Boston in five games, Pittsburgh in five and Philadelphia in six. Then they swept the Detroit Red Wings to win their first Stanley Cup.

The day before the parade in the arena’s parking lot to celebrate the Cup, McMullen informed the authority that he had terminated his lease.

The authority then sued the team and declared that the Devils had “exhibited an embarrassing lack of proper business demeanor, good faith and sincerity” in using Nashville to get more from New Jersey.

But a few weeks later, McMullen agreed to a new 12-year lease. Yet it took four months to become final, creating more sniping and threats. McMullen, true to form, was not ecstatic when it was all over.

“Long term, this can’t compete with Nashville,” he said.

The N.H.L. expanded to Nashville when the Predators arrived in 1998. McMullen eventually sold the Devils in 2000 for $176 million to Puck Holdings, an affiliate of YankeeNets, and died five years later. Chambers and Lewis Katz, part-owners of YankeeNets, created Puck.

Vanderbeek, who owned a small piece of the Devils, became their majority owner in 2004, and the team moved from East Rutherford to Newark three years later.

The team has lost as much as $20 million a season in Vanderbeek’s tenure, but that should be whittled this year by 10 playoff sellouts and additional sponsorship money. The team’s season ticket renewal is said to be 95 percent, up from 84 percent last season, according to a person with knowledge of the information.

Still, the team and Prudential Center would be in default of $77 million in debt if not for deadline extensions by their lenders.

The league, not surprisingly, does not like teams to miss their debt payments; in a more extreme case, it bought the Phoenix Coyotes out of bankruptcy court and is close to selling them.

The league also gave the team a financial lift earlier this year by advancing it millions of dollars in future national revenue from television and other sources. Down the line, the Devils will simply get less.

Last week, Commissioner Gary Bettman said Vanderbeek was “working to both refinance the debt on the club” and to raise equity. What Chambers will do is not known. Bettman said he had been in touch with the Devils’ lenders on a regular basis.

“We seem to be on track,” he said.

Vanderbeek has said very little publicly about his debt and ownership issues.

But, in response to Booker’s tirade in early April, Vanderbeek said that the mayoral rant was based on inaccurate information and amounted to a “Mel Gibson moment” or a “Charlie Sheen moment.”

For a second, Vanderbeek, a former investment banker, sounded a little like McMullen.
130 2012-06-05 Re “The Campaign Against Women” (editorial, May 20):

The onslaught of laws focusing on denying reproductive health care rights is a concerted campaign against women. These laws are not grounded in science or evidence-based medicine.

The American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists believes that access to family-planning counseling and to the full array of contraceptives is a basic and essential component of preventive health care for women.

Efforts to defund Planned Parenthood, which provides cervical cancer and mammography screening, contraception and other preventive care to millions of women, are egregious and disproportionately hurt poor women.

As physicians for women’s health care, ob-gyns see firsthand the havoc that punitive ideology-based laws have on the health of women and their families. These ill-conceived laws are based on the pretext of protecting health, but they do anything but that.

Mandating that women be legally forced to undergo transvaginal ultrasound or any other medical procedure against their will and against their physician’s judgment is an outrageous violation of patient autonomy and the confidential doctor-patient relationship. Decreasing access to family planning and contraception will only increase unintended pregnancies and negatively affect family and societal health.

Politicians were not elected to, nor should they, legislate the practice of medicine or dictate the parameters of the doctor-patient relationship. Our message to politicians is unequivocal: Get out of our exam rooms.
131 2012-06-05 Through illuminating interviews with Mr. Obama’s former high school and college classmates, two girlfriends from his time in New York City in the early 1980s, and colleagues from his days as a community organizer in Chicago, Mr. Maraniss — an associate editor at The Washington Post — does an energetic job of filling in the outlines of the president’s formative years. But what is new is largely a matter of emphasis and detail. For instance, while Mr. Obama candidly acknowledged indulging in pot and booze and “maybe a little blow” in his memoir, this biography underscores just what an enthusiastic marijuana smoker he was as a teenager. According to Mr. Maraniss he belonged to a group of boys at the elite Punahou School in Honolulu who called themselves the Choom Gang (“Choom is a verb,” the author writes, “meaning ‘to smoke marijuana’ ”) and thanked his pot dealer in his high school yearbook.

The most revealing chapter (excerpted in Vanity Fair magazine) draws upon the insightful journals of a former girlfriend named Genevieve Cook, daughter of a prominent Australian diplomat, who was teaching at a New York private school in the early 1980s. Ms. Cook was a kind of kindred spirit who shared Mr. Obama’s sense of dislocation and passion for intellectual inquiry, but she wrote frequently in her journals about “the veil” hanging between Mr. Obama and the outside world. There was something guarded and filtered about him, she observed, and their relationship had “calculated boundaries” she was unable to breach. After their romance ended and he had moved to Chicago, she called him and, she said he did “this cutting off thing he does,” making it clear, as Mr. Maraniss puts it, “in his own gentle but cool way that he was not so eager to hear her voice.”

In “Dreams From My Father” the future president wrote about “a woman in New York that I loved.” But while the physical description of this character closely resembles Ms. Cook, Mr. Maraniss writes, Mr. Obama “distorted her attitudes and some of their experiences, emphasizing his sense that they came from different worlds.” Mr. Maraniss says the president told him in a recent interview that that the description of his New York girlfriend was actually a “compression” of several women.

In such respects Mr. Maraniss’s book serves as a forensic deconstruction — and explication — of Mr. Obama’s memoir, a work that its author noted in an introduction took a fair amount of poetic license, featuring characters that were “composites of people I’ve known” and events that appeared out of chronological order. Back in 2004, the Chicago Sun-Times columnist Lynn Sweet wrote about the difficulty of sorting out “who is real and who is not” in the book. And, in these pages, Mr. Maraniss performs a vigorous autopsy, using some 350 interviews to dissect the identity of various characters and situate Mr. Obama’s self-portrait in context with the kaleidoscopic memories of friends, relatives and colleagues.

In one chapter, for instance, Mr. Maraniss says that Mr. Obama’s account of being separated from his father when he was 2 was actually “received myth, not the truth”: Ann and baby Barack had left Hawaii and returned to the Seattle region, he writes, where she had gone to high school, within a month of his birth. Mr. Maraniss puts forth two hypotheses as to why: that Ann’s realization that her husband was a bigamist (with another wife back home in Kenya) “burdened the relationship so much that she had to flee from under its weight”; or that Barack Sr. physically abused Ann (though there is no evidence that he did), the way he would abuse his next wife, an American woman named Ruth Baker.

As for the self-dramatization in “Dreams,” Mr. Maraniss writes that because the memoir filtered things through a “racial lens,” Mr. Obama presented “himself as blacker and more disaffected than he was, if only slightly so,” unwittingly making “it easier for political critics decades later to portray him” as “a stranger in their midst, whose life was outside the American mainstream.” Ms. Cook said Mr. Obama once told her that he felt “like an impostor” because “he was so white.” She became convinced that “in his own quest to resolve his ambivalence about black and white,” his future “lay down the road with a black woman,” predicting that he would eventually end up with someone very much like Michelle Robinson, whom he would meet several years later.

Also interesting in this volume are Mr. Maraniss’s insights into temperamental proclivities that would affect Mr. Obama’s political career. He gained national prominence with his 2004 Democratic convention speech calling for a unified America (transcending red states and blue states, conservative and liberal thinking), and as president he has been criticized by some supporters for not being tough enough in dealing with obstructionist Republicans in Congress. This book contends that his multicultural upbringing left him with an urge “to rise above the divisions of culture and society, politics and economics,” and that he had trouble with confrontation because “to confront was to acknowledge division, rupturing, imperfection, the traps of life he so wanted to transcend.”

Mr. Obama’s mentor in community organizing in Chicago in the mid-1980s, Jerry Kellman, recalls that he “was one of the most cautious people I’ve ever met in my life,” reluctant to burn bridges or employ the sort of aggressive actions (like storming City Hall) that Mr. Kellman favored.“He was not unwilling to take risks,” Mr. Kellman said, “but was just this strange combination of someone who would have to weigh everything to death, and then take a dramatic risk at the end. He was reluctant to do confrontation, to push the other side because it might blow up — and it might.”

One reason Mr. Obama decided to get into community organizing, Mr. Maraniss suggests, had to do with a search for “moral purpose.” Though he regarded his mother as something of a naïve romantic, and often evinced a “low-level anger about her frequent absences,” she always remained, in Mr. Maraniss’s view, “the conscience of his inner life”: he would never shed the conviction, nourished by her, that he couldn’t “sit around like some good-time Charlie,” that he was expected to do good.
132 2012-06-05 Leukemia, a malignant cancer of the blood, was named in 1847 by Dr. Rudolf Virchow, a German politician whose wide-ranging interests led him to significant discoveries in cell biology, pathology and anthropology. Although Dr. Virchow’s name appeared often in The New York Times, mostly in the late 19th century, his discovery of leukemia was not mentioned until Feb. 22, 1970, in an article by Dr. Lawrence K. Altman.

Of course, that was not the first time the disease was mentioned in the paper. That happened on Dec. 6, 1899, when Maj. Samuel T. Armstrong, surgeon of the 32nd Infantry, died in Manila. “The cause of death,” the brief obituary said, “is given as leukemia.”

By 1913, several types of leukemia were known, although none were treatable. On Dec. 2 of that year, The Times mentioned the illness in a report on the death of a Cornell student “suffering from a grave blood disease described by the hospital authorities as acute lymphatic leukemia.” This was also the first mention of an attempt to treat the disease — with a blood transfusion from the patient’s twin brother.

The next failed treatment noted in the paper was radium. On May 3, 1915, The Times reported that radium “has also been found effective in leukemia,” but then acknowledged that “patients might even succumb to the poisons released into the system.” Still, this was the first mention of a treatment, radiation therapy, that today remains one of the treatments for the illness.

The disease began to get significant public recognition only in the late 1920s. On March 5, 1927, The Times reported that a “Dutch gentleman” had offered an award of 25,000 guilders “for the most satisfactory treatise on the treatment of leukemia.” On April 3, 1934, in an article about a dying 4-year-old girl, a reporter described the disease as “an overabundance of white corpuscles in the blood,” adding that “its cure is infrequent.”

Throughout the 1930s, leukemia was frequently mentioned as a cause of illness and almost inevitable death, often in connection with heroic blood donations and transfusions in ultimately futile attempts to cure it. The disease, discovered almost a century before, had now become part of the public discourse.
133 2012-06-05 Stocks reversed losses and closed nearly unchanged on Monday as analysts saw value in issues in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, which on average were at their lowest level relative to their earnings in six months.

The attraction of the S.& P. stocks overshadowed a decline reported by the Commerce Department in United States factory orders for April, the second straight monthly decline.

Amazon.com and Starbucks advanced more than 3 percent to pace gains in consumer discretionary companies. Chesapeake Energy rallied 6 percent on plans to replace almost half its board under pressure from the billionaire investor Carl C. Icahn. Caterpillar and JPMorgan Chase retreated nearly 3 percent. Facebook declined 3 percent to the lowest price since the stock began trading at $38 last month.

The S.& P. 500 rose 0.14 point, or 0.01 percent, to 1,278.18. The Dow Jones industrial average retreated 17.11 points, or 0.14 percent, to 12,101.46. The Nasdaq composite index rose 12.53 points, or 0.46 percent, to 2,760.01.

The S.& P. 500 started the session trading at 12.9 times its companies’ reported earnings, the lowest valuation since November. It dropped 9.9 percent from a four-year high on April 2 through last week amid concern that Europe’s debt crisis was worsening and that global economic growth was slowing.
134 2012-06-05 Most of the 14 lawmakers are accused of having or rumored to have additional American, British or Canadian nationalities. On May 25, the court suspended Farahnaz Ispahani, the wife of a former ambassador to the United States, Husain Haqqani, from the lower house of Parliament. Ms. Ispahani, who holds American citizenship, is appealing the decision.

The proceedings are widely seen in Pakistan as the latest example of growing activism by Justice Chaudhry’s court over the past year. He has engaged in multiple, continuing battles with President Zardari’s government, including pressing a corruption case involving Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani that at one point prompted speculation about a military coup. And he has even taken on Pakistan’s formidable military intelligence agency, the ISI, over illegal detentions and extrajudicial killings.

But what some of Mr. Chaudhry’s admirers praise as fierce independence has increasingly seemed to others to be arrogance. His once unshakable popularity with the Pakistani middle class has appeared to weaken as his court has brought public life to a standstill in one fight after another.

Arif Rafiq, a commentator on Pakistan politics and an adjunct fellow at the Washington-based Middle East Institute, said that the Chaudhry-led court has taken on an increasingly partisan image, especially in its targeting of President Zardari’s governing party, the Pakistan Peoples Party.

Mr. Malik, famous for his colorful ties and flamboyant press appearances, is a leading figure within that party, and is one of Mr. Zardari’s main troubleshooters in keeping the fractious governing coalition together.

Mr. Malik is frequently dispatched to Karachi, where ethnically based parties, who are nominally partners in the governing coalition at the federal level, engage in often-violent political competition. Mr. Malik’s job is to negotiate truces, although peace is often short-lived.

The court orders have stirred an emotional public debate about the dual-nationality issue, with the Pakistan Peoples Party describing the court petitions as a part of a “witch hunt.” The nationalities — and, by implication, loyalty — of several senior leaders, including the finance minister and deputy chairman of the Senate, have been called into question.

Some politicians say the constitution should be amended to allow for dual-nationality lawmakers, but the largest opposition party, Nawaz Sharif’s Pakistan Muslim League-N, opposes any change.

Yet the list of 14 lawmakers currently under scrutiny includes Mr. Sharif’s supporters. One of them, Anusha Rahman, denied that she held a Canadian passport and promised a fight to prove it. Even so, the controversy could hold a silver lining. “No publicity is bad publicity,” she said.
135 2012-06-05 It is well accepted that evolved from dinosaurs, but the extent of the transformation still inspires wonder and awe. And new research.

One part of that transformation has just been traced in detail, showing that one of the things that happened in bird evolution was that their skulls pulled a Peter Pan and stopped growing up.

Some subtle genetic change slowed or stopped the development of the skull as a bird embryo grew in the shell and after hatching. The body kept on growing and changing proportions, but the skull changed only in size. It did not change in shape.

As a result, the skulls of birds look like those of baby dinosaurs. This kind of change is at the heart of the current understanding of how evolution proceeds, and although scientists are familiar with it from work on salamanders, fruit flies and other creatures, this new research shows how it occurred in two kinds of animals the public loves — dinosaurs and birds — bringing a complicated scientific idea home to the bird feeder and the museum exhibit hall.

The change from dinosaur to bird is one of those grand evolutionary shifts. The smart, quick theropod dinosaurs that gave rise to birds may have had feathers, but they did not fly and they certainly didn’t resemble birds today. Just think of a pigeon’s acrobatics. Or the legendary dive of the peregrine falcon, which can spot that pigeon from 3,000 feet and drop to earth in a 200-mile-an-hour swoop to strike it.

That’s a long way from running on land, a change in speed and agility requiring not only wings and flight feathers but sharp senses and sophisticated brains for long-distance vision and high-speed action. Sure enough, birds’ skulls have room for relatively huge eyes and for a brain that has expanded in the part devoted to the visual sense. And they are the same shape as the skulls of juvenile dinosaurs, not those of adults.
136 2012-06-05 For someone who has not practiced law in 30 years, Lloyd C. Blankfein has been spending quite of bit of time in the courtroom.     Mr. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, testified on Monday for the second time in 15 months in an insi...
137 2012-06-05 APPLEMAN--Mark. I Met Life when I Met Mark. Love you forever, Marguerite....
138 2012-06-05 National gay rights advocates plan to join other civil rights leaders on Tuesday in calling on Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to end the Police Department's current  stop-and-frisk policy, which they argue constitutes harassment of young black and Lat...
139 2012-06-05 McCORMICK--Vera, of Manhasset, NY, on June 3, 2012. Beloved wife of the late Frank McCormick. Loving mother of Judith Cadwallader and Nancy Venier. Cherished grandmother of Samantha Harris and Adam Thorson and Judson and Jason Venier. Great-grandm...
140 2012-06-05 LOS ANGELES - On the eve of the annual E3 video game convention here, Microsoft announced on Monday that it intended to double the amount and scope of media content offered over the next year through the company's Xbox Live online service. While g...
141 2012-06-06 The firm will be more selective than usual, having cut its head count over the last year by more than 8 percent to cope with reduced revenue amid difficult markets and new regulations....
142 2012-06-06 Researchers say the small but significant increases in the risk of leukemia and brain cancer do not mean that CT scans should be avoided entirely, but that the test should be performed only when necessary....
143 2012-06-06 Here is a small sampling of college admission books — and there are many — that might be useful to readers of The Choice this summer....
144 2012-06-06 Sotheby's files court papers to block a federal effort to seize an ancient statue on behalf of the government of Cambodia....
145 2012-06-06 Apple is expected to dump Google Maps from its operating system in favor of its own product. Google said it costs a lot more for quality mapping than Apple understands....
146 2012-06-06 The three-door hatchback is priced to compete directly with the well-established Honda Civic Si....
147 2012-06-06 The next season of "Downton Abbey" won't be broadcast until January for American audiences, but fans of the show can visit the filming location now. Highclere Castle, a short train ride from London's city center, has been the setting for the show'...
148 2012-06-06 Jo-Wilfried Tsonga has been successful when he plays aggressively, but against Novak Djokovic at the French Open, he seemed to abandon his offensive strategy....
149 2012-06-06 The Nasdaq OMX Group plans to set aside up to $40 million to settle disputes by investors over issues caused by technical glitches in Facebook's initial public offering....
150 2012-06-06 Cal F.C., an amateur team from Thousand Oaks, Calif., saw its unlikely run ended by Seattle Tuesday night in the Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup....
151 2012-06-06 Listen in as the She Owns It business group holds its monthly meeting....
152 2012-06-06 ESL Investments Inc., the hedge fund run by Edward Lampert, said President William C. Crowley left after deciding not to move with the firm to Miami.
153 2012-06-06 Some 1,000 images of Depression-era America that were sent to the New York Public Library in the 1930s and '40s are not in the Library of Congress. Read more on the Lens blog....
154 2012-06-06 How video chat could transform social media. | What happens if Greece runs out of money. | For American youth, bleak job prospects.
155 2012-06-06 Live updates of matches at the French Open on Wednesday....
156 2012-06-06 The Absa Group, a South African subsidiary of Barclays, has agreed to buy the retail credit business of Edcon, an African store chain owned by Bain Capital....
157 2012-06-06 With government expanding its reach into new areas of activity, it is to be expected that the amount spent on lobbying and campaign finance will grow as well....
158 2012-06-06 The 2014 United States Figure Skating Championships, which will serve as the Olympic trials, will be held in Boston Jan. 5-12. The Olympics begin Feb. 7 in Sochi, Russia.
159 2012-06-06 The Red Bulls were eliminated from the U.S. Open Cup, 3-1 in extra time, on Tuesday night by the Harrisburg City Islanders, a team playing in the lower-division U.S.L. Pro.

Sainey Touray opened the scoring for the City Islanders in the first half, before Connor Lade equalized for the Red Bulls in the 58th minute. Touray scored again, four minutes into extra time, and a goal by Lucky Mkosana wrapped it up for Harrisburg.

Harrisburg advances to the quarterfinals to play the Philadelphia Union.
160 2012-06-06 An S.U.V. found burning in the desert with five bodies inside was registered to the home of a missing family of five, including three children, the police in Tempe said Tuesday. The vehicle was found in the desert 35 miles south of Phoenix on Saturday. The five bodies inside were burned beyond recognition. But the police say the vehicle was registered to the Butwin family of Tempe, who had been reported missing on Monday. Investigators found “suspicious and concerning” evidence in the home but no people, and began treating the case as a murder-suicide.
161 2012-06-06 A man convicted of stabbing to death four nieces and nephews in 1990 was executed Tuesday, despite pleas from his two sisters to spare the brother who killed their children. Henry Jackson Jr., 47, known as Curtis, received an injection at the Mississippi State Penitentiary at Parchman. He had spent the day receiving relatives, including one of the sisters whose two children were killed and who survived the stabbing attack. The children were killed as Mr. Jackson tried to steal his mother’s safe while she was away at church. Late Tuesday afternoon, Gov. Phil Bryant declined to stop the execution though he said he was “deeply touched” by requests for clemency from the sisters and Mr. Jackson’s brother-in-law.
162 2012-06-06 WASHINGTON — The Senate will investigate recent national security leaks to the news media after articles in The New York Times about a “kill list” for terrorists and the use of cyberweapons against Iran, a Senate official said on Tuesday.

Tara Andringa, a spokeswoman for Senator Carl Levin of Michigan, the Democratic chairman of the Armed Services Committee, said the committee would hold hearings “pertaining to recent public reports of classified information.”

Senator Dianne Feinstein, chairman of the Intelligence Committee, said in a statement: “Today I sent a classified letter to the president outlining my deep concerns about the release of this information. I made it clear that disclosures of this type endanger American lives and undermine America’s national security.” She said she had discussed the possibility of joint hearings with Mr. Levin.

The announcement of hearings came after two Republican senators, John McCain of Arizona and Saxby Chambliss of Georgia, called for the appointment of a special counsel to investigate the leaks.

“Such disclosures can only undermine similar ongoing or future operations and, in this sense, compromise national security,” Mr. McCain said on the Senate floor. “For this reason, regardless of how politically useful these leaks may be to the president, they have to stop.”

Mr. McCain referred to the articles in The Times, which detailed Mr. Obama’s engagement in the decisions of which terrorists to target, and said he personally directed the cyberefforts against Iran. Mr. McCain, the ranking Republican on the Armed Services Committee, told reporters that he believes the leaks were designed “to enhance President Obama’s image as a tough guy for the elections.”
163 2012-06-06 In a spirited retort to the Vatican, a group of Roman Catholic nuns is planning a bus trip across nine states this month, stopping at homeless shelters, food pantries, schools and health care facilities run by nuns to highlight their work with the nation’s poor and disenfranchised.

The bus tour is a response to a blistering critique of American nuns released in April by the Vatican’s doctrinal office, which included the accusation that the nuns are outspoken on issues of social justice, but silent on other issues the church considers crucial: abortion and gay marriage.

The sisters plan to use the tour also to protest cuts in programs for the poor and working families in the federal budget that was passed by the House of Representatives and proposed by Representative Paul D. Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican who cited his Catholic faith to justify the cuts.

“We’re doing this because these are life issues,” said Sister Simone Campbell, executive director of Network, a liberal social justice lobby in Washington. “And by lifting up the work of Catholic sisters, we will demonstrate the very programs and services that will be decimated by the House budget.”

The bus tour is to begin on June 18 in Iowa and end on July 2 in Virginia. The dates overlap with the “Fortnight for Freedom,” events announced by Catholic bishops to rally opposition to what they see as the Obama administration’s violations of religious freedom. The bishops object in particular to a mandate in the health care overhaul to require religiously affiliated hospitals and universities to offer their employees coverage for birth control in their insurance plans.
164 2012-06-06 A group of three publicly financed charter schools in Georgia run by followers of Fethullah Gulen, a prominent Turkish imam, have come under scrutiny after they defaulted on bonds and an audit found that the schools improperly granted hundreds of thousands of dollars in contracts to businesses and groups, many of them with ties to the Gulen movement.

The audit, released Tuesday by the Fulton County Schools near Atlanta, found the schools made purchases like T-shirts, teacher training and video production services from organizations with connections to school officials or Gulen followers. Those included more than $500,000 in contracts since January 2010 with the Grace Institute, a foundation whose board has included school leaders. In some cases the awards skirted bidding requirements, the audit said.

“I would just question how those vendors were selected when price in many instances wasn’t part of the decision making,” said the Fulton County superintendent, Robert Avossa, who criticized the schools for conflicts of interest. “And those are public dollars.”

Gulen followers run more than 120 charter schools nationwide, making the loosely affiliated network one of the nation’s largest public charter school operators. Despite clear connections, the schools generally deny any affiliation with the Gulen movement, a powerful religious and political force in Turkey whose leader, Mr. Gulen, views establishing schools as part of his mission. While some of the charter schools have been praised for their academic performance, their business practices have raised questions.

The New York Times reported last year that the group’s 36 Texas schools had granted millions of dollars in construction and renovation contracts to firms run by Turkish-Americans with ties to the movement, in some cases bypassing lower bids from firms with no connections to the movement. The Texas schools also awarded deals for cafeteria food, after-school programs and teacher training to organizations affiliated with Gulen followers.
165 2012-06-06 The first trial of a senior Qaddafi-era official accused of crimes relating to last year’s war opened Tuesday. Bouzaid Dorda, a former intelligence chief arrested last September in Tripoli, was charged with conspiring to kill civilians, providing weapons for the purpose of killing civilians and conspiring to provoke civil war and other crimes. He denied the charges. The trial was adjourned until June 26.
166 2012-06-06 In hip-hop circles, James Rosemond was like a prince at the royal court, whose ties to rap music’s biggest stars were known far and wide. But a jury in Federal District Court in Brooklyn found on Tuesday that his real job was as a drug trafficker.

Mr. Rosemond was convicted of running a drug operation that sold millions of dollars’ worth of cocaine, often moving it across the country in cases designed for musical equipment, a federal prosecutor said in a statement. Mr. Rosemond, widely known as Jimmy Henchman, was also convicted of financial crimes, obstruction of justice and possessing and using firearms.

“Rosemond built and ran this drug trafficking organization in order to personally enrich himself and his associates,” Loretta E. Lynch, the United States attorney for the Eastern District of New York, said in a statement. “And profit he did. The paydays are over for Jimmy Henchman.”

Mr. Rosemond’s lawyer, Gerald L. Shargel, would not discuss the specifics of the conviction, which came after a three-week trial. Speaking by telephone, he said he was “disappointed” in the verdict and planned to appeal.

Even before the drug charges, Mr. Rosemond, who was arrested last June, was notorious in the hip-hop community. He had spent years trying to shake accusations of involvement in a bitter feud that led to the murders of two rap music legends: Tupac Shakur and Christopher Wallace, better known as Notorious B.I.G.

Both men were shot to death in the mid-1990s.

Despite the accusations, Mr. Rosemond has never been charged in any killing, and he has maintained connections with hip-hop luminaries like Sean Combs, Wyclef Jean, Akon, the Game and 50 Cent. Federal prosecutors said in February that they were trying to gather evidence linking Mr. Rosemond, who ran an agency called Czar Entertainment, to a 2009 murder in the Bronx of an associate of 50 Cent, but Mr. Shargel said no charges had been filed.
167 2012-06-06 Johnson & Johnson’s Ethicon division will stop selling four types of mesh implants used to treat urinary incontinence, the company announced in a letter to judges overseeing two large groups of lawsuits filed by women who claim the devices caused serious injury.

In a statement Tuesday, the company stressed that the move was not a recall, but was based on the products’ commercial viability “in light of changing market dynamics, and is not related to safety or efficacy.”

The announcement comes after years of controversy over the implants, which are used to treat incontinence caused by muscle weakening and a condition called pelvic organ prolapse, in which organs descend and press against the vaginal wall. The devices have been linked to serious injuries in women, including infections, pain and other complications. In 2008, the Food and Drug Administration warned that use of the implants was associated with complications but that the problems were rare. But between 2008 and 2010, the agency reported a fivefold increase in reports related to the use of the devices. In January, the F.D.A. ordered makers of the implants to study their risks in patients.

“This is very good news for women because it takes several products off the market that have harmed a lot of women,” said Diana Zuckerman, president of the National Research Center for Women and Families, a public health advocacy group. However, she said, “the bad news is that there are many other surgical meshes still on the market that are just as dangerous.”

Other device makers that also sell surgical mesh products include Boston Scientific, C. R. Bard and W. L. Gore & Associates. In a statement, a spokeswoman for Boston Scientific said the company believed that using such products “is and remains an important treatment option for patients.”

The four products Ethicon will discontinue are the Gynecare TVT Secur system, the Gynecare Prosima, the Gynecare Prolift and the Gynecare Prolift+M. Ethicon will stop selling the products over the next three to nine months, with a goal of ending sales worldwide by the first quarter of 2013. A spokesman for Ethicon declined to say how many women were implanted with the products.
168 2012-06-06 Ada María Isasi-Díaz would have become a Roman Catholic priest, she told friends, if not for the church’s ban on ordaining women. Instead, she became a dissident theologian who spoke for those she considered the neglected spiritual core of the church’s membership: Hispanic women like herself.

Dr. Isasi-Díaz, who died of cancer in New York on May 13, was widely known in North and South America as the chief theorist behind Mujerista theology — she published a book of the same name in 1996 — which extols the role of Hispanic women, especially the poor, in personifying Christian faith in the everyday struggles of life. She was 69.

Her death was announced by Drew University in Madison, N.J., where she was a professor of ethics and theology from 1991 until her retirement in 2009.

In part, Dr. Isasi-Díaz conceived of Mujerista, or “womanist,” theology (from the Spanish word mujer, for woman) to distinguish her ideas from those of feminism — a term “rejected by many in the Hispanic community,” she wrote in 1989, “because they consider feminism a preoccupation of white, Anglo women.” She hoped that “Mujerism,” which she considered a spiritual branch of the reform movement known as liberation theology, would help delineate the special identity shared by poor, Hispanic, Catholic women.

“Hispanic women widely agree that, though we make up the vast majority of those who participate in the work of the churches, we do not participate in deciding what work is to be done,” she wrote in 1989 in Christian Century, “Mujeristas: A Name of Our Own!” “We do the praying, but our understanding of the God to whom we pray is ignored.”
169 2012-06-06 BANGKOK — A state-run newspaper in Myanmar published an analysis on Tuesday expressing concerns that the “hard-won trust” between President Thein Sein and Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the Nobel laureate and opposition leader, could “vanish.”

The article in The New Light of Myanmar described “anxieties” in the wake of Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s recent trip to Thailand and appeared to criticize her for warning investors at a high-level business meeting here to be cautious about investing in Myanmar, which she said was not yet a “genuinely democratic society.” The statements undercut the government’s message that the country, one of the poorest in Asia, is ripe for investment.

The article appeared to be the latest suggestion that the trip had strained the relationship between Mr. Thein Sein and Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, now a Parliament member. Cooperation between the two is considered essential to continuing the country’s drive toward democracy.

The New Light of Myanmar was the government’s main mouthpiece under military rule, but with the country’s news media landscape now evolving, it is unclear how much the paper reflects the thinking of Mr. Thein Sein’s government and whether the article can be taken as an official rebuke or warning.

Still, the newspaper, which is used to publish what are essentially government news releases, has not allowed analyses that cut against government policy.
170 2012-06-06 Down, 5-6, 30-40, in his next service game, he hit a second serve, kept the ball deep and was rewarded with a forehand error from Tsonga. Down, 5-6, ad-out, he pushed forward again and repelled Tsonga’s fourth match point with an overhead.

There would be more danger ahead, including a 6-6 point in the tiebreaker, but nothing quite so extreme, nothing — be it an untimely slip or a nasty bounce or a cathartic winner from Tsonga —that could have put an immediate end to Djokovic’s chances of becoming the first man since 1969 to hold all four Grand Slam singles titles.

Djokovic, the No. 1 seed, is two victories from doing what Federer and Rafael Nadal have never managed, and there is a strong possibility that he will have to beat them both to pull it off.

But first, spare a thought for the fifth-seeded Tsonga, an attack-minded showman who rose to the occasion on his worst surface and still ended up in tears in his chair with the crowd chanting his surname.

“There was fatigue, frustration, disappointment,” he said. “You go a bit through all the feelings. You want to break all your rackets. You want to shout. You want to cry. You want to laugh, saying, ‘This has to be a joke, how did I manage to lose this match?’

Federer, the No. 3 seed, had to deal with his own nightmare across the grounds on Suzanne Lenglen Court. Down two sets to del Potro, his chances of remaining in the tournament looked slimmer by the thunderous ground stroke.

In slow conditions and occasional drizzle, Federer was struggling to hit service winners, struggling to penetrate. It was enough to make Federer lose his famous cool: In the second-set tiebreaker, he shouted, “Shut up!” in the direction of fans who had made a ruckus during an exchange.

“Obviously, I was emotional, and I was, you know, sometimes upset, sometimes just trying to push myself on,” Federer said. “Push harder and try harder and move faster, all those things because I knew it could be crucial to the match. Thank God it wasn’t, but in the moment itself, you don’t know.”

As imposing as del Potro surely looks across the net with his 6-foot-6 frame and intimidating power and precision off both wings, he remains a fragile giant. Though there was no sign in the early stages that the tape wrapped around his left knee was posing any problems, he would soon appear much less explosive, calling for a trainer and letting some wide shots fly by unchallenged.

In the end, Federer’s 3-6, 6-7 (4), 6-2, 6-0, 6-3 victory was, despite the thriller scoreline, strangely devoid of great suspense. “It’s clear that it helped me that he wasn’t in the same kind of shape and that he searched perhaps for the winner earlier in the rallies,” said Federer, whose five-set record is now 19-16.

Del Potro later said that his movement had not been affected by his knee problems and that the trainer came on to the court in the third set only to adjust the tape on his leg.

Del Potro pushed Federer to five sets in the semifinals here in 2009, the year Federer won his lone French Open. Del Potro then rumbled from behind to upset Federer in the final of the 2009 United States Open. But del Potro, has had no shortage of sorrows since then, including a wrist injury that knocked him well out of the top 100 and off the tour for the better part of a year. Since his return, Federer has beaten him six consecutive times, including five times this year.

“I know Juan Martín well, I’ve played him many times,” Federer said. “He got me at the U.S. Open in five sets, and I remember the semifinal here in 2009 in five sets, too. Now we had another. The conditions were tough, very slow and difficult. I think he had a little bit of a problem with his knee. It’s incredible that he finished the match.”

Federer put up a magnificent fight of his own to beat Djokovic in the semifinals here last year in four sets, stopping the Serb’s 43-match winning streak. But Djokovic has had the better of their rivalry over all lately, saving two match points before rallying to beat Federer in the semifinals of the 2010 and 2011 United States Opens.

On Friday, Federer and Djokovic will meet in the semifinals. But on Tuesday night, after all that heavy breathing and lifting, Djokovic was still in the mood to savor this comeback.

“Ones you win, ones you lose, but the more important thing is to try and take the best out of these matches and enjoy them,” he said. “Because as a tennis player, this is what you live for. This is what you practice for all these years, to be part of an incredible performance, incredible match encounter here in Roland Garros, you know, with the home players.”

Forgive the home fans for not applauding too loudly. The French, after all, just might feel they have already helped Djokovic enough.
171 2012-06-06 After Proposition 8 passed, a group backing same-sex marriage brought together two of the country’s best-known lawyers, who were on opposite sides of the Bush v. Gore recount case before the Supreme Court, to try the case. The lawyers, David Boies, a Democrat, and Theodore B. Olson, a Republican who was solicitor general under President George W. Bush, spoke Tuesday of their satisfaction with the proceedings at the Ninth Circuit.

“This is a great step forward toward the day when everyone will be able to marry the person they love,” Mr. Boies said in a conference call with reporters.

Mr. Olson said that in the three years since the case was brought the national discussion about gay rights and same-sex marriage had shifted drastically. At the time, opinion surveys showed that a minority of Americans backed same-sex marriage, the military still had a policy of “don’t ask, don’t tell” regarding gay, lesbian and bisexual service members, the federal law defining marriage as limited to heterosexuals had not been successfully challenged and President Obama was officially opposed to same-sex marriage.

All of that has changed since then, and a number of states have also legalized same-sex marriage, including New York. Still, some 40 states have laws or amendments restricting marriage to heterosexual couples.

There is a debate among both advocates and opponents of same-sex marriage whether they should seek a declaration from the Supreme Court or continue to work state by state as the issue plays out socially and politically.

What will happen to either case should it arrive at the Supreme Court also remains a matter of debate, as does whether the court will take either or both when the requests arrive by October. The court is widely thought to be divided 4-4 on same-sex rights, with Justice Anthony M. Kennedy the key deciding vote.

“Everybody has their eyes on Kennedy,” noted Linda C. McClain, a professor of law at Boston University.

Both cases have been decided on narrow grounds that speak to past Kennedy decisions. The justices would therefore not have to rule on whether same-sex marriage is a right guaranteed by the Constitution, only whether lesbian and gay couples had faced unconstitutional discrimination.

Supporters of same-sex marriage are hoping that, on the contrary, the Supreme Court might be persuaded to view this as an opportunity like the one it took in 1967 in the landmark Loving v. Virginia ruling when it declared that laws banning interracial marriage were unconstitutional. Others view that as highly unlikely, given the court’s makeup.

Mr. Olson said the California and Massachusetts decisions could be joined together or argued in sequence. Only four justices are required to grant an appeal to hear a case but five to form a majority decision.

Laurence H. Tribe, a Supreme Court scholar at Harvard Law School, said he would be surprised if the two cases were joined since they raised different legal questions and pointed in somewhat different directions regarding state power. He said he thought the case from Boston, where a federal law, the Defense of Marriage Act, contradicts a state law — legalizing same-sex marriage in Massachusetts — would seem the more urgent for the justices to decide.

He speculated that the Supreme Court would accept only that case and delay accepting the one from California especially because this past term, he said, had been so exhausting, involving health care and other momentous cases.

Others however, including Prof. Eugene Volokh of the University of California, Los Angeles, law school, who runs a popular blog of law professors, argued that the justices would certainly want to weigh in on what has become one of the most significant areas of legal and political debate in the past decade.

In Tuesday’s Ninth Circuit filing, a dissent by Judge Diarmuid F. O’Scannlain, joined by two others, said the debate had just been stymied and the refusal to reconsider the ruling had “overruled the will of seven million California Proposition 8 voters.”

Professor Tribe expressed a contrary view that seems increasingly common among judges and legal scholars. “The constitutional necessity of same-sex marriage is only a matter of time,” he said. “It is inevitable.”
172 2012-06-06 For coaches, and especially the successful ones, it is always about effort because they have already experienced the beautiful marriage it can have with ability. But not this night, or at least not in the endgame sequence when the otherwise sagging Thunder could do what the Spurs simply could not: rise and shine.

The great Oscar Robertson has often complained that the 21st-century player knows only how to play in the air, an overstatement borne of some truth. Of course, stylistic extremism — airborne or grounded — is no advisable path to glory. But the inability to play off the floor will no doubt define the Spurs’ undoing should they fail to bring the series back to San Antonio for Game 7.

Those of us who have admired the Spurs through the four-championship Tim Duncan era flirted with a state of awe during their 20-game winning streak over the final 10 games of the regular season and the opening 10 of the playoffs. With an infusion of new support players, some younger legs, Popovich appeared to have the Spurs in great position to rinse one more title out of the star triumvirate of Duncan, Ginobili and Tony Parker.

But although one possession cannot do justice to a tense and riveting struggle in what shaped up as the series’ swing game, the Spurs’ last chance to tie did put a magnifying glass to the crack in their aging infrastructure. All the talk about the democracy of offense went the way of the two-hand set shot when the trapping Spurs, trailing, 106-103, forced a Thunder turnover in the backcourt with 15.5 seconds remaining.

How many teams must remove their scoring point guard and de facto most valuable player at such a moment? But to the bench went Parker, who does not have reliable 3-point range and whose early-series penetration off the vaunted high screen-and-roll had been quieted by Westbrook’s gangly pursuit.

Danny Green, the starting shooting guard most of the season, surrendered his position to Ginobili in the Spurs’ near-desperate hour and played only 3 minutes 37 seconds. Gary Neal, a valuable sub with long-distance range, missed all six of his shots and was not returning for more. Matt Bonner, another 3-point bench bomber, played less than a minute.

Leonard, a rookie forward with upside, was stationed in the right corner, briefly open, but was only a decoy. Boris Diaw never left the lane after setting a low screen for Ginobili. The Thunder’s Serge Ibaka was caught in a switch on Stephen Jackson at the top of the key and wisely stayed with him.

“We were trusting for everybody to cover for each other,” said Kendrick Perkins, the Thunder center, who had fouled out and watched his teammates play the kind of defense Perkins once helped anchor during a title run in Boston. “We just wanted to guard the line, run them off the 3.”

It had to help that the intended shooter was as obvious as the outcome at the Alamo. Given such predictability, maybe Popovich should have had the Spurs try for a quick 2 points and then press for another turnover or foul.

Instead, Ginobili, with the ball, was chased by Durant and Harden into the left corner and had to dump it to Duncan on the wing at the 3-point line. Ginobili got it back, retreating behind Duncan’s screen, but he shot falling away, never getting his legs into it, and back-rimmed it wide.

“Not as open as we wanted, but at least I could let it fly,” Ginobili would say after his valiant 34-point, 7-assist, 6-rebound night that ultimately felt empty.

With all due respect, letting it fly does not measure up to flying by oneself. We can imagine what Durant would have done in that setting. We saw what Ginobili and his teammates could not do and why the Spurs — best known for flying under the publicity radar — may no longer be capable of soaring to championship heights.
173 2012-06-06 PARIS — It will be Sam Stosur versus Sara Errani in the women’s semifinals of the French Open, and at least one part of that equation is not surprising.

Stosur, the powerful yet fragile sixth seed here, is the reigning United States Open champion, but she has been most consistently effective in Paris. This will be Stosur’s third semifinal at Roland Garros in the past four years, and she got there this year by dominating Dominika Cibulkova of Slovakia, 6-4, 6-1, on a cool Tuesday.

“The last few years have been very good to me in Paris,” Stosur said as she came off the Philippe Chatrier Court. “I love playing on this court.”

Errani, an unimposing Italian, is a different matter. Until this year, she had never been past the third round in a major tournament and had won only one match in the French Open main draw. But she is in the midst of a year that is changing perceptions about her limitations. After a run to the quarterfinals at the Australian Open, she has won three tournaments on clay and is in the final four of the clay-court tournament that matters most.

On Tuesday, she managed to defuse her resourceful and in-form German opponent, the 10th-seeded Angelique Kerber, saving set points in the second set before winning in style, 6-3, 7-6 (2). It was Errani’s first victory over a top-10 player in 29 attempts. It also made her Italy’s latest feel-good story at the French Open, after Francesca Schiavone’s unexpected and emotional run to the women’s title in 2010.
174 2012-06-06 The Dow Jones industrial average was up 26.49 points, or 0.22 percent, at 12,127.95. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index was up 7.32 points, or 0.57 percent, at 1,285.50. The Nasdaq composite index was up 18.10 points, or 0.66 percent, at 2,778.11.

“I wouldn’t be shocked if we actually extended further gains from here, but those could easily be wiped out,” James L. Dailey, portfolio manager of TEAM Financial Asset Management, said. “The question is, do you really want to be picking up nickels and dimes in front of a bulldozer?”

“The market hasn’t seen a real sellers’ panic, which lies ahead,” he added.

The European Central Bank meeting could have an impact on the euro crisis if the bank signaled a willingness to take action that would ease the financial stresses on Europe.

The pace of growth in the nation’s services sector picked up in May as a gauge of new orders improved, according to an industry report. The Institute for Supply Management’s services index edged up to 53.7 in May from 53.5 in April, a touch above economists’ forecast for it to hold steady.

The institute’s data let investors breathe a brief sigh of relief after a number of negative economic reports. Those reports and concerns about the euro zone drove the S.& P. 500 down more than 6 percent in May.

Spain’s treasury minister, Cristóbal Montoro, said that the nation’s high borrowing costs had effectively shut it out of the bond market and that the European Union should help Madrid recapitalize its debt-laden banks.

Statements after emergency talks by the finance chiefs of the Group of 7 industrialized nations on the euro zone’s deepening crisis gave investors little clarity.

Japan’s finance minister said he had told G-7 members that Japan was confident in Europe’s response to its problems, but he indicated that Tokyo was prepared to intervene to curb its currency.

Most major economies in the euro zone are in various states of decline, according to business surveys that suggested even Germany was no longer immune to the crisis.

Facebook, the social networking company, fell 3.8 percent to $25.87, down 31 percent from its market debut on May 18.

Interest rates were higher. The Treasury’s benchmark 10-year note fell 15/32, to 101 20/32, and the yield rose to 1.57 percent, from 1.52 percent late Monday.
175 2012-06-06 The response by the Syrian government on Tuesday appeared to underscore the largely symbolic nature of those expulsions and the determination of Mr. Assad to maintain his course despite international outcry over the seemingly intractable cycle of killing. Mr. Assad has denied any responsibility for the May 25 Houla massacre.

“The Syrian Arab Republic still believes in the importance of dialogue based on principles of equality and mutual respect,” read the ministry statement, quoted by Syria’s state news agency, SANA. “We hope the countries that initiated these steps will adopt those principles, which would allow relations to return to normal again.”

Along with Mr. Ford, the list included diplomats from Belgium, Britain, Bulgaria, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Spain and Switzerland, each of which joined in expelling Syria’s representatives last week, as well as the entire embassy staff from Turkey. The Turkish government, which is host to thousands of Syrian refugees along the border, has been especially critical of Mr. Assad.

The diplomatic wrangling has occurred against a backdrop of more violence in recent days, in violation of a nearly two-month-old cease-fire agreement brokered by Kofi Annan, the special envoy for the United Nations and the Arab League. There have been reports of at least two further killings of large numbers of people at close range since the Houla massacre.

Antigovernment activists have blamed the Syrian military for the brutality of the conflict and have reported that a large number of attacks on military checkpoints over the past three days have killed dozens of Syrian soldiers. The Syrian government, for its part, has said that much of the killing, including the massacre at Houla, was carried out by groups of armed men or “terrorists.”

Journalists have been largely prevented from moving freely about Syria to report on events there, making competing claims difficult to verify. But the government’s account of at least one spate of violence appeared to gain credibility on Tuesday as a militant group claimed responsibility for the deaths of 13 men in the eastern city of Deir al-Zour last week, news agencies reported.

The group, Al-Nusra Front, also has claimed responsibility for a string of recent attacks, including twin suicide car bombings that killed 55 in the Syrian capital last month. Analysts have seen indications that the branch of Al Qaeda in neighboring Iraq was involved in establishing the shadowy group.

Western nations that want Mr. Assad to resign have been prevented from engaging in more robust international action in support of the Syrian opposition, in part by Russia and China, which have resisted any such efforts by the United Nations Security Council.

President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia traveled to China on Tuesday for meetings with President Hu Jintao that included discussion of their approach to Syria. Both leaders urged continued support of a peace plan negotiated by Mr. Annan “to promote a political solution to the problem in Syria.”

The credibility of Mr. Annan’s plan has been severely undermined by the violence, which has left an estimated 10,000 people dead and many more displaced.

A spokesman for the Free Syrian Army, a collection of anti-Assad militiamen, was quoted by Reuters on Monday as saying it no longer felt bound by the cease-fire component of Mr. Annan’s plan because the government had failed to respect it.

The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, an activist group, said that clashes on Tuesday between rebel forces and the Syrian military had left more than a dozen soldiers dead in western Latakia Province.

Mr. Annan is to brief the Security Council on Thursday about the plan, which officially took effect in mid-April.

The agreement to allow aid workers greater range in the country was accepted two days ago by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Damascus, and it was assumed to have the blessing of higher authorities, a senior United Nations official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. Syria’s ambassador to the United Nations in Geneva, Fayssal al-Hamwi, conveyed the decision by the Syrian government at a meeting on Tuesday.

Relief agencies working in Syria — specifically the Syrian Arab Red Crescent and the International Committee of the Red Cross — had made some limited progress in increasing access to populations in need in recent weeks, said Kelly Clements, deputy assistant secretary to the United States mission in Geneva.

Under the agreement, the Syrian government will facilitate visas for aid personnel and customs clearance for relief supplies entering Syria and will allow relief agencies previously limited to a base in Damascus to establish field offices in Homs, Idlib, Dara’a and Deir al-Zour, said Mr. Ging of the United Nations humanitarian affairs office.

Once established, relief teams in these four cities would focus on delivering food, medicine, hygiene kits, blankets, kitchen sets and materials to repair schools, a United Nations bulletin said.
176 2012-06-06 ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — Pakistan’s military said it successfully test-fired a nuclear-capable cruise missile on Tuesday, continuing a pattern of what analysts say is a regional arms buildup with a focus on India.

The Hatf-VII cruise missile is also known as Babur, named after Zahiruddin Muhammad Babur, founder of the Mughal Empire on the Indian subcontinent in the early 16th century. Successful tests on the missile system, which has a range of about 435 miles and technically gives Pakistan a seaborne nuclear strike capability, began in 2005.

The missile test comes just days after the government presented its annual budget for the next fiscal year, which included a 10.2 percent increase in military spending despite a period of relative détente with India.

Imran Khan, a leading opposition politician, on Sunday urged an audit of the defense budget, demanding greater transparency and scrutiny. And other domestic critics point out that Pakistan’s failing utility infrastructure has gone wanting as the military has kept most of the budget, even while it receives billions of dollar in military-focused aid from the United States, among others.

Continuing to develop a sophisticated cruise missile capability is seen as a deterrent to India, making Pakistan’s nuclear arsenal more flexible — and better able to survive a potential first strike by India — even as it gives the military more options in a conventional war.

“This is signaling to India that if you are modernizing your weaponry, then we are also not lagging behind. Pakistan is sensitive and responsive to evolving threats. Basically, these missile tests are meant to ensure Pakistan’s minimum deterrence,” said Mansoor Ahmed, a defense analyst based in Islamabad.
177 2012-06-06 Only Ms. Gandara knows. Over the course of 10 years or so, she has been the sole conjurer of what is now approximately 3,000 containers of Buddhapesto per month. “Gregor does not know how to make it,” she said.

Such information would be tough to share, anyway, because Ms. Gandara, a 47-year-old mother of two, tends to measure her ingredients, whether it’s a shotgun blast of tricolored pepper or a fluffy clump of parsley, by sight and by the way it feels in her hands.

She also uses a part of the body that’s too rarely cited in cookbooks: her ears. She knew the pesto was ready, she said, when the shifting din of the food processor told her so: “It no longer sounds like it’s struggling. The machine is at peace. It calms down. I am listening for an om.”

For seekers of basil-based enlightenment, the spiritual terminology is more than a wisecrack. There is a sort of Zen to making the green stuff sublime, even in (or especially in) the most modest of surroundings.

“This is it,” Ms. Gandara said of her narrow kitchen. “People think I’m producing it in the Maria Wonka Pesto Factory.”

People also ask if she’s Italian, but Ms. Gandara is of Colombian and Mexican-Indian extraction; she first tasted pesto when she was a teenager in California.

“I thought, ‘That is the elixir of the gods,’ ” she recalled. “ ‘I have to learn how to make that.’ ” Epiphany led to obsession — and to years of perfecting the mix in meticulous trial-and-error sessions. Eventually a friend urged her to package the pesto and find a market for it.

Customers ask Ms. Gandara for her recipe all the time, and she is open about her ingredients and their origins: organic basil from Slack Hollow Farm in Washington County, N.Y., when it’s in season, the pecorino Romano from Italy. But she refuses to reveal the exact proportions.

“That’s what I have been working so hard on all these years,” she said.

Ric Orlando, a friend of the couple’s and a noted Hudson Valley chef, suggested that Ms. Gandara had made a range of choices that allowed “the ingredients that we expect pesto to taste like to shine on their own without having to battle.” For instance, she uses raw pine nuts instead of roasted and, to the surprise of some customers, pure olive oil instead of extra virgin, which can overwhelm other flavors.

That humble food processor is crucial to the whole operation, too. “The fact that she makes it handmade and on smaller machines makes a huge difference,” Mr. Orlando said. Industrial-size gear can whip up industrial-level heat, he said, which can slightly cook the ingredients and spoil the distinctive tang of freshness.

As with so many homegrown culinary enterprises, it seems that smallness plays a huge role in why Buddhapesto tastes the way it does.

Generating only 16 or 17 containers per spin makes it difficult for the couple to keep up with a summer demand that can be unrelenting. But they have resisted the temptation to upgrade to a mammoth machine.

“Yes, it would be easier on her, but I don’t think the pesto would taste the same,” Mr. Trieste said. “You would lose that attention to detail.”

That level of focus explains why, on a recent night, Ms. Gandara could be found listening for cosmic signals from her food processor through the night and all the way past dawn, eventually conking out at 7:30 a.m. after handing over a fresh stockpile of Buddhapesto to her partner, who was gearing up to drive it around the region.

All of which evokes the question: could the delicate process of making Buddhapesto even survive expansion?

Ms. Gandara and Mr. Trieste have been dreaming of converting a few of their five acres to a farm on which they could grow their own basil, garlic and parsley, and they have been in talks with representatives from Whole Foods and Smorgasburg, the vast weekend gastro-market in Brooklyn.

At the moment, their pesto can’t be found in New York City unless someone orders it through their Web site, but it’s hard to imagine how the couple could manage the workload if the green gold happened to take off in, say, Manhattan and Brooklyn.

“I want to walk to work,” she said. “Barefoot.”

Her husband seemed apt to agree. “When you’re doing something so perfect, why mess with it?” he said.

Then again, when his wife was momentarily out of earshot, he couldn’t resist grinning and dropping a hint at brand expansion.

“She makes a really good chimichurri,” he said.
178 2012-06-06 Researchers say the small but significant increases in the risk of leukemia and brain cancer mean that CT scans should be performed only when necessary....
179 2012-06-06 Mr. Annan was en route to the United Nations to brief the Security Council and the General Assembly on Thursday, and Western diplomats said he was expected to bring some new proposals.

The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a British group with a network of contacts in Syria that was among those reporting the Qubeir killings, called for an urgent investigation by the 300 United Nations cease-fire monitors who have been deployed in Syria under Mr. Annan’s plan.

“They should not wait to tomorrow to investigate this new massacre,” the group said in a statement. “They should not give the excuse that their mission is only to observe the cease-fire, because many massacres have been committed during their presence in Syria.”

Members of the United Nations monitoring staff were able to gather some evidence in the aftermath of a May 25 massacre in Houla — a string of villages in western Syria, in which 108 people were killed, nearly half of them children — that pointed to complicity by pro-Assad militia members and soldiers. The Houla massacre focused new attention on the Syrian uprising and the danger that it could expand into a sectarian civil war that spills into neighboring countries. Two other episodes of mass killings of striking workers were reported in the days after the Houla massacre.

In Washington, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, who hosted the so-called Friends of the Syrian People International Working Group on Sanctions, said in opening remarks that intensifying financial sanctions on Mr. Assad’s government would work if aggressively enforced.

“Strong sanctions make clear to the Syrian business community and other supporters of the regime that their future is bleak so long as the Assad regime remains in power,” he said. “And strong sanctions can help hasten the day the Assad regime relinquishes power.”

Mr. Geithner said he hoped that “all responsible countries will soon join in taking appropriate economic actions against the Syrian regime.” But his remarks did not rule out the possibility that military action could also be invoked because sanctions could include, “if necessary, Chapter 7 action in the U.N. Security Council. Absent meaningful compliance by the regime with the Annan plan, that is the direction in which we are soon headed.”

A Chapter 7 resolution could authorize further financial sanctions and the severance of diplomatic relations with Syria. Should that prove insufficient, though, it could authorize the use of military force.

The Syrian president, who has described the increasingly bloody political uprising against him as the work of foreign-backed terrorists, has shown no indication that he is prepared to relinquish power, in part because of backing from Russia and China, which have so far objected to any resolution that could lead to foreign military intervention in Syria.

But Mr. Assad did reorganize his government on Wednesday, appointing the agriculture minister, Riyad Farid Hijab, as prime minister and ordering him to form a new administration, according to the official SANA news agency.

What impact, if any, the changes might have in the Syrian conflict were unclear, although Mr. Assad’s critics quickly denounced them as cosmetic moves meant to create the impression of political reform.

The president of the General Assembly, Ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz al-Nasser of Qatar, said it was possible that the 193-nation body would pass a new resolution to put further pressure on the Syrian government after hearing from Mr. Annan and others, including Secretary General Ban Ki-moon and the president of the Arab League, Nabil el-Araby, on Thursday.

“We are talking about stopping the violence and implementing Mr. Annan’s six-point plan, which the Syrian government agreed on,” he said. “We don’t see any positive action. Violence is still going on and that is not acceptable.”
180 2012-06-07 Could the U.S. Shoot Down a Missile?
181 2012-06-07 Sprint said the iPhone would become available this month on Virgin Mobile USA, its service for prepaid plans, and that the cost will be considerably less than the fees contract customers pay monthly to use an iPhone....
182 2012-06-07 Lotus announced the firing of Dany Bahar, the chief executive who sought to broaden the niche brand's appeal with an ambitious product build-out....
183 2012-06-07 13P is a group of playwrights who were frustrated by the long developmental process for new plays at New York City theaters....
184 2012-06-07 App stores need better search engines, yes, but there is a lot that Apple and Google are doing right. Apple for vetting apps and highlighting good ones; Google for its Maps, Translate and SkyMap apps are still better than any competitors....
185 2012-06-07 Shares in Pfizer were up slightly on Thursday after the drug maker announced that it planned to take its animal health unit public rather than sell it....
186 2012-06-07 The Nasdaq OMX Group plans to set aside up to $40 million to settle disputes with investors over issues caused by technical problems in Facebook's initial public offering, but the action has not made everyone happy. Michael J. de la Merced and Cat...
187 2012-06-07 June 7, 2012 — Nasdaq tries to quell anger over bungled Facebook I.P.O.
188 2012-06-07 Mitchell Krueger of the U.S. defeated Max de Vroome of the Netherlands to move to the semifinal of the French Open....
189 2012-06-07 Jeff Ma, an entrepreneur and member of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Blackjack Team that learned how to count cards in Las Vegas casinos, has started a new company that monitors employees to make them more productive. It's not the watc...
190 2012-06-07 Celebrating good journalism....
191 2012-06-07 One broker says of Nasdaq's handling of the Facebook I.P.O. last month: "It's hard to envision it having been handled more badly."...
192 2012-06-07 Charles Dallara, the managing director of the Institute of International Finance who had a prominent role in negotiations between private bondholders and Greece, is stepping down....
193 2012-06-07 Nasdaq tries to quell anger over Facebook's flawed initial public offering. I.B.M. makes a deal with New York City to increase solar energy usage. Cutting pensions in California....
194 2012-06-07 While many big banks warehouse derivatives in subsidiaries that rely on federally insured deposits to fund themselves, Morgan Stanley does not — and it could weigh on profits in an already lackluster environment....
195 2012-06-07 Nasdaq tries to quell anger over bungled Facebook I.P.O. | I.B.M. makes deal with New York City to increase solar energy usage. | Cutting pensions in California.
196 2012-06-07 Managers from England's Premier League pick Spain to successfully defend its title at the 2012 European championships....
197 2012-06-07 A weaker Europe has meant a stronger dollar, making American products more expensive....
198 2012-06-07 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
199 2012-06-07 Live updates of semifinal matches at the French Open on Thursday....
200 2012-06-07 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
201 2012-06-07 Sound arguments about regulating too-big-to-fail financial institutions may lose out to a barrage of advertisements and campaign spending on behalf of Republicans....
202 2012-06-07 Nearly a month after President Obama announced his support for same-sex marriage, he got a rousing reception and at least $2.5 million at a gala of gay supporters and a private, celebrity-studded dinner afterward....
203 2012-06-07 Responding to suggestions that her government was annoyed by her activities during a recent trip to Thailand, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, Myanmar’s chief opposition leader, said Wednesday that her actions gave no cause for anyone to be unhappy. Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi had spoken frankly to an audience that included corporate executives at the World Economic Forum about potential difficulties for foreign investors in Myanmar, undercutting the government’s message that Myanmar was ready for investment. “I had given my views very openly at the forum, and I heard that some were unhappy about that,” she said. “I gave my frank opinion so that people can make a correct assessment of the country.” Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s relationship with the president, U Thein Sein, is considered crucial to democratic changes.
204 2012-06-07 German officials have said they are prepared to weather a Greek exit from the euro if necessary, but no such claims are made about Spain. As such, Spanish leaders, who feel Madrid has already made many painful changes and spending cuts, are holding out for a deal that requires only a tightening of oversight on the financial sector and no strings attached to the country’s budget powers.

Spain also appears to be forcing a reckoning about the expensive steps political leaders in Europe need to take if they want to hold the euro zone together. Hopes that the European Central Bank would ride to the rescue, as it did with two waves of generous loans to Europe’s banks in December and March, or at the very least cut interest rates, now at 1 percent, were dashed when the bank’s president, Mario Draghi, said Wednesday that he did not “think it would be right for monetary policy to fill other institutions’ lack of action.”

“Some of these problems in the euro area have nothing to do with monetary policy,” Mr. Draghi said at a news conference, his message to European leaders boiled down to: “Your problem, not mine.”

The wrangling over Spain underlines the way the European Union stumbles to solutions for each problem as it arises. Frustration has grown over the uncertainty afflicting the global economy as a result of Europe’s instability and the toll it takes on an already slowing growth rate.

“The strategy of plugging holes only works for so long,” said Friedrich Mostböck, chief economist and head of research for the Erste Group in Vienna. “Eventually, you come to the point where a common euro area requires a common fiscal policy.”

Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy of Spain has made clear that he intends to draw a distinction between Spain, which has a lower level of debt as a percentage of gross domestic product even than Germany, and Greece, which has given up a great deal of its fiscal sovereignty to lenders in exchange for assistance.

For Spain, a bailout is more than a matter of pride and sovereignty. “The experience of Ireland, Portugal and Greece is that it diminished their access to commercial markets,” said John Chambers, managing director and chairman of the sovereign rating committee at Standard & Poor’s. “Spain doesn’t want to go that route.”

The Spanish economy minister, Luis de Guindos, made a surprise visit to Brussels on Wednesday to meet with the European commissioner in charge of competition, Joaquín Almunia, a fellow Spaniard, followed by a trip to Paris to meet with Pierre Moscovici, France’s finance minister. That fueled speculation that Madrid was laying the groundwork to formally request help sooner rather than later.

Because Spain has already made many painful changes and spending cuts, officials in Brussels and Berlin are much more open to a bailout that mostly imposes conditions and oversight on the financial sector in Spain.

Mr. Moscovici said Wednesday that Europe stood ready to help Spain. “If Spain desires, we in the euro zone can mobilize rapidly,” Mr. Moscovici said at a news conference in Paris. But Mr. de Guindos said there were currently no plans to seek a bailout.

Yet, as recently as Tuesday, Spain’s budget minister told Spanish radio that the financial markets were closed to Spain. The mixed signals coming from Spanish officials seemed to reflect an odd balancing act — trying to reap the advantages of sounding alarmed, but not so desperate that they signal a willingness to let European officials dictate harsh terms and conditions.

Mr. de Guindos has spent this week shuttling between European capitals to secure some sort of rescue package for Spain’s troubled banks. The list starts with Bankia, which was nationalized in early May and needs $24 billion of additional funds after restating its accounts, to a 2011 loss of almost $3.75 billion rather than the $388 million profit it had reported in February.

German officials have been privately pressing the Spaniards to take a bailout. On Tuesday, Volker Kauder, the head of Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democrats in Parliament, said that Spain “has to seek a rescue.” But as long as Brussels and Berlin believe aid is necessary, Spain retains bargaining power — the chance that it self-destructs implicitly holds the rest of Europe hostage until they agree to terms.

One crucial issue is whether emergency lending would be made directly to Spanish banks. That is a line in the sand for German officials, who argue that under Europe’s hybrid structure, banks are the responsibility of their sovereign governments, not the European collective.

But making emergency loans to the Spanish government to rescue its own banks, as European lenders did for Ireland, presents other problems, because it would increase government debt and impair Spain’s ability to sell bonds.

The German newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung reported Wednesday that officials here were examining a possible compromise under which rescue funds were paid directly to Spain’s Fund for Orderly Bank Restructuring, known as FROB.

Should Berlin agree to a rescue package with limited conditions, it would allow Mr. Rajoy to save face, after repeatedly pledging that Spain would not request a Greek-style bailout.

The ultimate solution will hinge on Germany and how much its leaders are willing to bend. Berlin has an incentive to get the Spanish problem under control before Greek parliamentary elections on June 17, to help contain contagion in the event of instability after the vote, said Holger Schmieding, chief economist at Berenberg Bank.

“I’m naïvely optimistic that it would be good to have the Spanish problem solved before the Greek election,” he said, “and my impression is the relevant policy makers think the same.”
205 2012-06-07 The National Black Theater, a cultural fixture in Harlem that was in danger of losing its home, has resolved a series of financial disputes that had endangered its future.

The theater, at Fifth Avenue and 125th Street, had been threatened by foreclosure and involved in disputes with a neighboring restaurant and with its former business partners, whom theater officials had accused of mismanagement. Those disputes have now been resolved, and the theater was relieved of over $10 million in debt when Baltoro Capital Management took over the 64,000-square-foot building this spring. The company has pledged to keep the theater in the building rent free, even if the building is sold. “The fight is over,” said Sade Lythcott, the chief executive of the theater. “Now the real work begins, to get the muscle weakened by all this litigation strong again. That feels great.”

Ms. Lythcott is the daughter of the theater’s founder, Barbara Ann Teer, who died in 2008. She was such a fixture in the neighborhood, with a national reputation for promoting black artists, that her death was marked by a march through Harlem. Her funeral at Riverside Church was packed with dignitaries.

Ms. Teer made the theater a cultural incubator, one that presents shows and workshops intended to foster respect for African ancestry and for black self-expression. Over the years it has hosted artists like Ruby Dee and Ossie Davis, Nina Simone, Nikki Giovanni and Maya Angelou.

As a new entity called Harlem Renaissance 2012, Baltoro is now forming a partnership with the theater, company officials said Wednesday.

“We have agreed that the National Black Theater will stay in its space indefinitely,” said Michael Kelley, the president and chief executive. “We’re excited that we’re preserving the N.B.T. space and its important cultural mission.” He added, “We’re exploring ways for this great location to be cultural destination for artists and visitors to Harlem.”
206 2012-06-07 Natascha Kohnen, a regional lawmaker for the Social Democrats in Bavaria, who are circulating their own petition against the bill, said, “The reality is, what kind of choice does a single mother have if she needs a job to support her children but can’t work unless she has affordable child care?”

Last week, Ms. Schröder introduced a 10-point plan aimed at ensuring that the government adhered to its pledge to create 750,000 child-care slots for toddlers by 2013, insisting that Germany was on track to meet that goal.

Many experts dispute that assessment and maintain that the money earmarked for the allowance would be better spent improving the number and quality of child-care slots.

“As long as we do not have sufficient child-care slots, both in number and in quality, it is difficult to support the argument to invest in a program that takes us in the opposite direction,” Anette Stein, who researches education initiatives for the Bertelsmann Foundation, said in a telephone interview.

Among those most opposed to the allowance are young parents whom it aims to help, and who economists argue are desperately needed in the work force to keep Germany competitive.

Five years ago, Germany overhauled its parental support system, scaling back support to young mothers to 12 months from 3 years, and making fathers eligible to receive leave benefits. As a result, the number of mothers who have toddlers and work outside the home has increased to 40 percent in 2011 from 32 percent a decade ago, according to the Ministry for Family Affairs, Senior Citizens, Women and Youth.

Yet day care slots remain at a premium, especially in western Germany, where traditional family roles are more deeply rooted and infrastructure for care lags. It is not uncommon for hundreds of children to be on waiting lists for several dozen places.

“I think it is a real step backward,” said Julia Ott, mother of a first grader and 2-year-old twins, who are in day care for 35 hours each week in Cologne. She works part time but hopes to go back full time when her youngest daughters start school.

“It has nothing to do with modern family politics,” Ms. Ott said.

Axel Plünnecke, a family policy researcher at the Cologne Institute for Economic Research, estimates that 100,000 mostly lower-qualified and lower-paid workers could view the subsidy as attractive enough to stay at home for two extra years.

In addition, Mr. Plünnecke cited studies that had shown the children who benefited most from early childhood education included those from low-income families, for whom the benefit could be most attractive. In the long term, he said, the government may have to invest more in the education of these children if they are to contribute to the skilled labor force.

“From a purely economic viewpoint, this subsidy makes no sense,” Mr. Plünnecke said in a telephone interview.

Reflecting how real fears are of the negative impact that the subsidy could have on the country’s economy, leaders from Germany’s labor unions and employers’ associations, which normally spar over wage agreements, teamed up to criticize the initiative as “creating a false incentive to quit work.”

The Christian Social Union, the Bavarian wing of Ms. Merkel’s party, the Christian Democratic Union, insists that it is a question of fairness.

“If we invest predominantly in day care, and not in alternatives, that would amount to a preference for day care,” Gerda Hasselfeldt, a leading member of the Christian Social Union, wrote in the newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung.

Yet there is a certain lack of logic in the idea of compensating families that decide not to take advantage of infrastructure provided by the state, some economists say.

“If I build a highway,” Mr. Plünnecke said, “it doesn’t mean that the cyclists are going to get compensated.”
207 2012-06-07 “She wants it,” McEnroe said. “That counts for a lot. It’s a great story how she had shoulder surgery and how she rebuilt her whole game and she’s hitting the ball as well as ever now. I certainly didn’t expect her to get back to No. 1. She willed herself back into that position.”

McEnroe did not see Sharapova as the most talented player on tour. He said Kvitova was the better tennis player of the two, Azarenka the better athlete, as is Sam Stosur, another semifinalist in this tournament. But McEnroe said: “Sharapova says, ‘I’m here. I’m still here.’ She’s like Michael Chang.”

Sharapova came into Roland Garros on such a roll that it seemed as though clay, if not preferred, was now a surface she no longer despised. She won titles in Stuttgart, Germany and Rome. In her first three rounds here, she lost five combined games and spent fewer than three hours on the court, including changeovers.

In the fourth round, in less than ideal weather conditions, Sharapova needed three sets to dispatch Klara Zakopalova, or longer than the rest of her matches combined. “A good test,” she called it.

Against Kanepi, Sharapova relied on a big serve and bigger returns to control the pace of play. She moved forward more than in her previous match, took the ball earlier, won points more quickly. Kanepi said it felt as if “the balls were flying so hard from her side.”

Sharapova described her resurgence here as part of a natural evolution. Still relatively early in her comeback from surgery in 2008, Sharapova said: “I’m just more grateful for what I’m doing and what I have, more than anything,” she said. “You start playing the sport from a young age and everything just kind of happens for you and you’re on, not a roll but a routine, and you take it for granted.”

In earlier French Opens, Sharapova said she would try to save herself during matches, worried she would not hold up physically over the two weeks. She feels stronger now, more energetic, more positive, too, than in recent seasons.

She could even eclipse $20 million in career prize money, a number dwarfed by her career endorsement income. More than that, though, Sharapova entered this tournament intent on adding to her trophy case, to the other Grand Slam titles (Wimbledon, 2004; United States Open, 2006; Australian Open, 2008). All came before the operation.

Sharapova seemed relaxed. She answered a question about her diva status with a smile, and she insisted she did not wear makeup on the court, or to bed. She has worn a men’s style black suit jacket onto the court before matches and blown kisses to the crowd after them. She talked about her favorite restaurant (L’Avenue), her favorite food there (escargots and strawberries) and her propensity to people-watch (best cities: Paris and Tokyo).

At Roland Garros, though, her tennis mattered most. On the surface she liked least, in the city she liked best, Sharapova has become the unlikely favorite.

“She’s got the best chance to be No. 1 because she’s not going to give away any matches,” McEnroe said. “She’s always going to be there.”
208 2012-06-07 Stocks surged on Wednesday as remarks from a Federal Reserve official stirred stimulus hopes and after stocks in Europe rose when the European Central Bank kept the door open to making a future cut to its benchmark interest rate.

The gains in equities gave the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index their best daily performance in 2012 and propelled the Dow back into positive territory for the year.

Mario Draghi, the European Central Bank president, said that some of the 23 members of the central bank’s governing council had argued for an interest rate cut in advance of Wednesday’s decision to stand pat on rates, and he left open the option of a cut later on. “We will stand ready to act,” he said.

The central bank also promised to continue to provide European Union commercial banks with effectively unlimited low-interest loans, at least through the end of 2012. That move came as Mr. Draghi noted the increased level of stress in Europe and signs of flagging growth.

Howard Archer, IHS Global Insight’s chief British and European economist, said there were “clear indications that an interest rate cut is now in the cards” because Mr. Draghi had stated that a “few” governing council members favored a cut in discussions leading up to Wednesday’s inaction.
209 2012-06-07 CT scans in children can cause small but significant increases in the risk of leukemia and brain cancer, a new study finds.     Researchers say the results do not mean that CT scans should be avoided entirely - they can be vitally important in cer...
210 2012-06-07 This is my first post for You're the Boss. I hope to add my two cents by shining some light on the state of small-business lending in the United States.     It might help if you understand what I do in my day job. I am a small-business owner mysel...
211 2012-06-07 9:28 p.m. | Updated  The Nasdaq OMX Group is taking its first step to quell investor anger over the flawed debut of Facebook shares last month - pledging $40 million to cover broker losses - but some customers and competitors quickly raised object...
212 2012-06-07 Sotheby's filed court papers on Tuesday urging a federal judge to dismiss efforts by prosecutors to repatriate a 10th century statue to Cambodia, contending that there is no proof the sculpture had been stolen from its homeland.     The auction ho...
213 2012-06-07 CORLISS--Ronni, born December 23, 1947, wife of William "Bill" Corliss; daughter of Joyce Lewin and the late Armand Lewin; step-daughter of Robert "Bob" Schwartz, WWII Veteran; sister Harley I. Lewin; mother of two fabulous loving sons Dustin Ross...
214 2012-06-08 Europe’s downturn started to affect economies elsewhere — including the United States, where it threatened to undermine President Obama’s re-election chances, and China, which lowered interest rates to reinvigorate its economy....
215 2012-06-08 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. Friday's selection includes a surge in the number of homes for sale for more than $1 million near Facebook's headquarters and the company th...
216 2012-06-08 Senator James Inhofe canceled a meeting with President Obama's nominee for ambassador to Iraq after leaked e-mails surfaced suggesting the nominee had an affair with a Wall Street Journal reporter....
217 2012-06-08 Sallie L. Krawcheck's proposals for bank reform. Joseph E. Stiglitz on economic inequality. Balancing entrepreneurship and motherhood....
218 2012-06-08 Bucks readers share the list of things they accomplished during their annual financial tuneups....
219 2012-06-08 Monserrat Gonzalez and Beatriz Haddad Maia defeated Taylor Townsend and Eugenie Bouchard in the junior girls' doubles semifinal at the French Open....
220 2012-06-08 A glowing celestial pinwheel spinning in the night sky over the Middle East on Thursday night may have been from a Russian ballistic missile test....
221 2012-06-08 My thesis is that the big banks like to use the $20 million measurement so they can stick bigger, safer loans into their numbers and still look like they're helping small business....
222 2012-06-08 The U.S. player Mitchell Krueger was defeated by Kimmer Coppejans of Belgium in the semifinal of the junior boys semifinal at the French Open....
223 2012-06-08 Sallie L. Krawcheck's proposals for bank reform. | Joseph E. Stiglitz on economic inequality. | Balancing entrepreneurship and motherhood.
224 2012-06-08 What does partial recovery from a slump tell us?...
225 2012-06-08 Metropolitan Diary: Fondly remembering a wino on the Upper West Side, his favorite cheap wine and his dog, Bill, who guarded them both....
226 2012-06-08 The local retailer Marks & Spencer will open 50 bank branches at its stores over the next two years in a joint venture with HSBC....
227 2012-06-08 Rafael Nadal has advanced to his seventh French Open final, and will play Novak Djokovic in the final....
228 2012-06-08 Prospects are better than had been feared for food supplies this summer, the Food and Agriculture Organization projected, although extreme weather could change the picture....
229 2012-06-08 The Japanese financial regulator proposed a fine of $185,000 against First New York Securities for alleged insider trading, as part of a widening investigation into suspicious trading....
230 2012-06-08 Health care costs continue to soar, yet we do not yet seem to have found a ceiling at which Americans are ready to start setting boundaries on what care is available to whom....
231 2012-06-08 Refusing to slot comfortably into any recognizable genre, “The Oregonian” teases us with horror and amnesia-mystery conventions without sealing the deal either way. From a commercial standpoint this is more than a little risky, encouraging nonplused critics to dust off the “experimental” tag that sends most moviegoers running for the hills. Yet this first feature from Calvin Lee Reeder (who also wrote the story, such as it is) doesn’t feel like an experiment; it feels like a journey whose destination was firmly predetermined.

Which doesn’t mean that it’s in any way comprehensible, so let your brain off the hook and surrender to a sensual experience that’s the opposite of ingratiating. From the moment our unnamed heroine (Lindsay Pulsipher) awakens in a wrecked car on a deserted country road, we are plunged inside her head: a jangled soundscape of twanging guitars and partly tuned radio stations, heavy breathing and desperate screams. Bloodied and bedeviled by random flashes of white light, the young woman staggers off in search of help, her progress marked by increasingly odd encounters: a crone flashing a dead smile; a weirdo wearing a green plushy costume. Is she a victim of concussion? Or just too many Luis Buñuel movies?

Creepy, silly, startling, irritating, and black-vomit-and-multicolored-urine disgusting, “The Oregonian” wears out its welcome within 30 minutes. Yet the film’s casual embrace of dream logic — a visual loop of prone bodies and trashed station wagons — and impressive sound design linger. I sure hope that fuzzy green monster doesn’t do the same.
232 2012-06-08 Some critics of this summer’s Olympic Games in London have seized on the potential traffic nightmares and security concerns. Others have expressed outrage over the cost of the Games while Britain copes with high unemployment and a wobbly economy. Still others have criticized the ticket-allocation system, calling it unfair.

But the issue that might be boiling the hottest is this: Who will represent Britain in the under-80-kilogram weight class for men’s tae kwon do?

In a country with plenty of experience debating the merits of soccer players chosen for the national team, the far less British sport of tae kwon do has been thrust into the gantlet of the frenzied press in recent days, ever since Aaron Cook, ranked No. 1 in the world in his weight class, was left off the team in favor of Lutalo Muhammad, who is ranked No. 59 in the same weight class.

With just 49 days until the Games begin, Britain has a controversy to confront.

Cook said he was told last by British Taekwondo, the national governing body for the sport, that he was not on the Olympic team — despite his ranking and his gold medals from the past two European championships.

Last year, Cook decided to refuse government funding for his training, instead relying on his own and sponsorship revenue to pay for his preparation for the Games. He left the performance program, “because I felt that their methods were wrong for me,” he said in a statement last week. “I was not achieving my potential.”

In a telephone interview Thursday, Patrice Remarck, Cook’s coach, said: “There’s something wrong with the process. The criteria they should use is experience and results. In terms of experience, Aaron is the one. You look at the people he fights and he beats them and has the best results.”
233 2012-06-08 “He started slowly reaching for his pocket,” Mr. Aganbi said. “By the time I thought about it, he grabbed the gun, pointed it at someone who was behind him, lifted it up and shot it, and ran.”

The police said on Thursday night that the suspect was still at large.

The someone behind the gunman was a firefighter from Engine 287, who happened to be on the corner of the plaza and had sprinted with others after the man, his radio across his chest.

The shot came so close, it left graze marks on the firefighter’s shorts, said Richard Torres, a firefighter with Engine 287 who was also at the scene. The round hit a cellphone shop.

Within 10 minutes, the police had roped off the area. On the trash-strewn plaza, which had been cleared of people, behind a barricade of yellow caution tape, a bullet hole and the shooter’s navy baseball cap remained.

Their arms around each other in a prayer circle, they stood by as their two friends were taken aside for questioning by detectives. With an almost eerie level of calm, each of the young people thanked the Lord.

“If anything had happened to Andre or Mark, they would be going to heaven, and they would be rejoicing with our Lord, because they trust in Christ so completely,” said Katharine Batchelor, 18, who was traveling with her peers on an eight-week mission from the Summit, a Southern Baptist church based in Raleigh, N.C.

Her voice trembled. “It’s just a beautiful thing,” she said.

Local residents and shop owners were far less stoic. The plaza on which the shooting took place has been rife with controversy since the road was blocked off to create it late last year. It is the same area where a State Supreme Court justice, Thomas D. Raffaele, 69, said a police officer struck him after an unruly crowd surrounded the officer as he arrested a local vagrant. The episode is being investigated by the Police Department’s Internal Affairs Bureau.

Bystanders on Thursday were quick to blame the plaza, saying the reduced traffic had decimated businesses, with tables perpetually staked out by vagrants.

“The quality of the neighborhood has gone tremendously down,” said Agha Saleh, who owns the Internet cafe next to the shop that was struck. Last week, he said, a man stripped naked and ran into a nearby store. “Robberies, guns, drugs — so many things are happening every single day.”

But the missionaries were still cheerful, even as some climbed into a patrol van for more questioning at the precinct. As they headed out, the two young men joked about the tense phone calls they would be making to their parents that night.

“What did you do today?” Mr. Aganbi said, pantomiming the call. “Hung out, chased some guy, almost got shot. Shared the Gospel.”
234 2012-06-08 A bomb attached to a bicycle exploded outside a seminary in southwestern Pakistan on Thursday, killing at least 14 people, the police said. More than 40 people were wounded in the attack in Quetta, the capital of Baluchistan province, a senior police officer, Hamid Shakil, said. Most of the dead and wounded were students at the Sunni Muslim seminary, he said. No one immediately claimed responsibility, and the motive for the bombing was unclear. There have been sectarian killings in the region; in October, gunmen singled out Shiite passengers on a bus and executed them. But other factors could have been at work. Baluchistan borders Afghanistan to the west and is believed to be a refuge for Taliban and Pakistani militants. It has also witnessed an insurgency lasting decades by renegade tribal elders and nationalists who demand greater autonomy and a larger share of the province’s resources, like natural gas and oil.
235 2012-06-08 Tiger Woods, Phil Mickelson and Bubba Watson will play in the same group for the opening two rounds of the United States Open at the Olympic Club in San Francisco. The top three in the world rankings form another big group: Luke Donald, Rory McIlroy and Lee Westwood.
236 2012-06-08 You don’t need to be a gossip hound to know how Andrew Garfield will follow up his Tony-nominated role as Biff in the recent Broadway revival of “Death of a Salesman.” As the star of “The Amazing Spider-Man,” the much-promoted movie reboot opening on July 3, he will probably be seen by more people in one day than in his entire, just-completed Broadway run.

Many of Mr. Garfield’s fellow nominees, especially the actors, probably hope for long, comfy, continuing runs, whether or not they take home a Tony Award on Sunday night. But for some — those behind the scenes, and in shows that have closed or will close soon — the next job is already in sight. And one already has a summer acting vacation planned. Here is a selective guide to when you might next see this year’s nominees in action.

A PAIR OF MUSICAL CINDERELLAS Jessie Mueller, a featured actress nominee who played the jazzy chanteuse in “On a Clear Day You Can See Forever,” will leave that single shoe “On the Steps of the Palace” in the starry ensemble cast of Stephen Sondheim and James Lapine’s “Into the Woods,” set to run July 23 to Aug. 25 at the Delacorte Theater in Central Park. Later, the leading actress nominee Laura Osnes (“Bonnie & Clyde”) will play the title character in a revamped “Rodgers & Hammerstein’s Cinderella,” which aims to open on Broadway during the 2012-13 season with an updated book by Douglas Carter Beane (himself a nominee for his book for the musical “Lysistrata Jones”).

DRAMATICALLY SPEAKING Given that his “Clybourne Park” took a few years to make it to Broadway, you would expect the playwright Bruce Norris to have something else ready to go. But “Domesticated,” a new play said to be about “gender politics,” is part of the 2013-14 Lincoln Center Theater season. As for his fellow best-play nominees: David Ives (“Venus in Fur”) is adapting “La Métromanie,” a 1738 French verse comedy that Mr. Ives says has never been translated, for the Shakespeare Theater in Washington; he and Stephen Sondheim are also collaborating on a new musical that Mr. Sondheim has said spins out of an undisclosed moment in one of Mr. Ives’s plays. Rick Elice (“Peter and the Starcatcher”) and the show’s co-director Roger Rees are working with the composer Will Van Dyke on “Magnificent Climb,” a musical about the fates of several mountaineers nearly a century apart, to be produced in the 2013-14 season at New York Theater Workshop. And Jon Robin Baitz (“Other Desert Cities”) says, simply, that he’s working on a new play.

QUITE THE LINEUP It’s hard to beat Alex Timbers (nominated as co-director with Mr. Rees) for eclectic projects. He is attached to “The Last Goodbye,” a musical adaptation of “Romeo and Juliet” with songs by Jeff Buckley; and, at the Public Theater next year, “Here Lies Love,” a new musical about the former Filipino first lady Imelda Marcos, with music by David Byrne and Fatboy Slim. Before that, he is directing the musical version of the 1976 boxing movie “Rocky,” written by Tom Meehan,with music and lyrics by Lynn Ahrens and Stephen Flaherty , this fall at the Operettenhaus in Hamburg, Germany.
237 2012-06-08 13P, a New York City collective of 13 writers who teamed to produce one play by each member, will mount its final show in July before disbanding after nearly nine years, the organization announced on Thursday. The last production will be a chamber...
238 2012-06-09 Union Rags overtook Paynter in the final stretch to win the 144th running of the Belmont Stakes....
239 2012-06-09 The San Diego Padres have had three Cy Young Award winners since they began play in 1969. But no one has pitched a no-hitter for them yet....
240 2012-06-09 Max Mirnyi and Daniel Nestor defeated Bob and Mike Bryan, 6-4, 6-4, in the final at Roland Garros....
241 2012-06-09 Maria Sharapova won the first set in her French Open tennis final against Italy’s Sara Errani as the Russian tries to win her first title at Roland Garros and complete the career Grand Slam....
242 2012-06-09 Maria Sharapova defeated Sara Errani 6-3, 6-2, to win the French Open and become the 10th woman to win a career Grand Slam....
243 2012-06-09 The opening game of Euro 2012 started brightly, ended limply, and gave a convincing argument that the forefathers of soccer intended it to be an outdoor game, in the cool of winter.

The first thing to do is congratulate the Greeks. In coming from a goal down to tie their game against Poland, 1-1, they showed more than just the courage to fight in Poland’s fiercely partisan new national stadium. Greece also withstood all the fair elements of sport, and some decidedly unfair ones.

Under a closed PVC roof over this otherwise fine arena, both teams were left gasping for air in a temperature that was about 70 degrees outside at kickoff, and considerably more humid inside once the hot breath of 56,070 baying Poles, and a few hundred Greeks, had shouted themselves hoarse.

Why close the roof, other than because it is there?

Why did Poland wilt first, especially since they had a man advantage for the crucial third of the game? Maybe emotional energy has something to do with it, or maybe because the Poles were taller and heavier to a man, and the Greeks relied more on technical ability and tactical surprise.

But we knew after 17 minutes that this is no longer a Greece built on “Otto’s Wall”: the ultra defensive resistance coached into it by the German Otto Rehhagel before it won the European title in Portugal in 2004. Now, Greece is less secure at the back, and more committed going forward.
244 2012-06-09 Businesses are taking on new debt, while consumers are shedding it....
245 2012-06-09 Before the writer’s brain could absorb, analyze and react to this information, the man turned.

“He shot out the window,” the writer said. A fall from this height would have most likely been crippling, but the stranger reached across a few feet to the fire escape and grabbed on.

And so comes, as sure as the city’s other countless rites of summer, the “second-story man,” a thief, nicknamed more than a century ago, who breaks into upper-story apartments by way of windows left open to the breeze.

This intruder clambered not down, to the street, but up. “I got to see his hands and sneakers,” but that was all, the writer said. “I pursued him to the roof. I don’t know what I was thinking. I opened the fire escape window and went up the ladder, just like that.”

He got to the top, primed for a confrontation, finding none. “There was no one there,” he said.

“I realized how stupid it was,” he said. “What am I doing here? I should be in my apartment and calling the police.” He wondered if the intruder had jumped to the next roof — it looked as if a door there was open. The writer returned to his apartment and called 911.

Detective Steve Panagopoulos arrived and found surveillance cameras on every floor of the writer’s building; he called the owner for the footage. On the video from the top floor, outside the writer’s apartment before the break-in, the man could be seen standing. More or less.

“The male appears to be doing the ‘heroin nod,’ ” Detective Panagopoulos said, describing the knocked-out-on-his-feet bobbing of an addict. “At one point, he’s slumped over, and he jumps up like somebody’s grabbing him.”

The man can be seen on the video climbing a hallway ladder leading to the roof. He then headed into the writer’s apartment. If he had not already shaken himself out of his nod, his surprise a few minutes later, when he was confronted by the writer in the kitchen, presumably would have done the job. After his flight to the roof, he is seen on the video scrambling down the ladder, to the hallway and, floor by floor, camera by camera, taking the stairs to the front door.

He walked outside and turned right. He walked past a corner deli with a camera pointed down from an awning, giving the police another view.

He crossed Metropolitan Avenue and, in doing so, left the 94th Precinct and entered the 90th. Detective Panagopoulos passed pictures from the video around bodegas in both jurisdictions.

“I had no luck with that,” he said.

In Williamsburg, as the season of the second-story man begins, Detective Panagopoulos gave no-nonsense advice to residents — “Lock your windows” — and said the nickname was flawed.

“You know what it is? I think the majority of the incidents take place on the top floors,” he said. They begin at the front door. “They check the buzzers, right? Even this guy, he buzzed one apartment.” A resident had let him in, and the intruder went to the top, where he broke into an apartment that should have been empty.

The writer, who seemed deeply shaken by the episode, thought back to his irritability at work that morning and his return home. “I hate to say it’s a premonition,” he said. “I can also say it’s a strange coincidence. It’s definitely something that’s never happened before.”
246 2012-06-09 “In most Arab countries, the majority of the population, of course, supports the rebels and opposes the dictator, so our reputation has suffered badly,” said Georgy Mirsky, a leading Middle East scholar at the Russian Academy of Sciences in Moscow. “If Bashar Assad manages to win the war, if he remains in power, the majority of the population in Arab countries will blame Russia for this, of course, and our reputation will suffer. But if he is overthrown, also, many people will blame Russia anyway.”

The uprisings in Egypt and Tunisia were portrayed in Russia as largely organic, driven by young people frustrated by their economic prospects. But the Syrian conflict is seen completely differently, as orchestrated by other countries in the West and the Arab world and aiding the rise of radical Islam. As the death toll has mounted in Syria — the United Nations estimates that more than 10,000 people have been killed — Russian officials have consistently argued that the fall of the Assad government would usher in something much worse.

“You know, when we had the war in Chechnya, what we heard was that we were using excessive force, that civilians perished,” Aleksei K. Pushkov, the head of Russia’s parliamentary committee on foreign affairs, said in a recent interview. “But what was at stake was whether we will follow the Yugoslav scenario or not, and the Yugoslav scenario was far more bloody.”

However, a recent upsurge in violence by the government’s security forces, frequently aimed at women and children, has put Russia on the spot to offer alternatives.

Friday’s talks between a senior State Department envoy, Fred Hof, and the deputy foreign ministers, Mikhail Bogdanov and Gennady Gatilov, were an attempt to forge a consensus on a transition. One analyst recommended the model of the 1995 Dayton peace agreement, which ended a vicious ethnic war in the former Yugoslavia. Russia could serve an essential role in guaranteeing order during a political transition because it has deep connections with Syrian military officials, many of whom were educated in the Soviet Union.

“What is needed for Syria is something like the Dayton agreement, not just to remove Assad but to work out a new model of rule in Syria, because democracy will not lead to a solution,” said Fyodor Lukyanov, editor of Russia in Global Affairs. “Russia has more influence on Assad than anyone else. The question is whether anyone would be patient enough to try to implement this.”

After emerging from the meeting on Friday, Mr. Bogdanov said he did not foresee moving beyond the six-point cease-fire plan of the former United Nations secretary general Kofi Annan, which does not call on Mr. Assad to leave power.

Mr. Bogdanov put the onus for the continuing violence on opposition forces and foreign countries, which, he said, “flirt with extremists and radicals of various kinds for the purpose of achieving their own goals.” Asked what would happen if international forces intervened without a mandate from the United Nations Security Council, he said it would be “a disaster for the entire Middle East region.”

If the costs to Russia are mounting, President Vladimir V. Putin also has compelling domestic reasons for refusing to budge. His predecessor, Dmitri A. Medvedev, lost face among hard-liners in the government for his decision not to block the Western intervention in Libya, setting into motion events that culminated in the killing of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, another Russian ally. Agreeing to a transition plan in Syria would risk consigning Mr. Putin to a similar fate. It would also mean backing down from a stand that is still being cheered in foreign policy circles here.

“Without Russia’s support he would have been pulled down, and the intervention would have followed,” said Vitaly V. Naumkin, director of the Institute of Oriental Studies at the Russian Academy of Sciences. “Without Russia’s support he would have been toppled. Thus, Russia has proved that it can prevent certain events in the region, which, in our opinion, are not only not desired — not because we adore Assad — but because we want stability in this region, and we think this kind of political engineering may lead to catastrophic consequences.”
247 2012-06-09 Kraft Foods is moving its stock listing to the Nasdaq from the New York Stock Exchange, a move the company says will cut costs as it prepares to split into two publicly traded companies.

Kraft, which is based in Northfield, Ill., also said Friday that Nasdaq’s billboard in Times Square would give its brands, which include Oreo, Nabisco and Cadbury, greater visibility.

A Kraft spokesman, Michael Mitchell, said the company was impressed with the advertising and brand-building Nasdaq did on behalf of its member companies. He also noted that Nasdaq’s listing fees were “considerably less.”

The transfer to the Nasdaq will take place June 26. The company’s ticker will remain “KFT” until the company’s division. The two new companies created by the split will also be traded on the Nasdaq.

One company will focus on North American grocery brands like Oscar Mayer and Velveeta and be called the Kraft Foods Group, using the abbreviation “KRFT.” The other company, Mondelez International, will focus on global snack brands and will trade as “MDLZ.”

The move may provide consolation for the Nasdaq, which has been criticized for its handling of Facebook’s initial public stock offering.
248 2012-06-09 Johnson & Johnson said Friday that it would add about $600 million to its reserves to cover a possible settlement of allegations that it paid kickbacks to a company that dispenses drugs to nursing homes. Johnson & Johnson said it would take a one-time charge in the second quarter to cover a possible settlement of a whistle-blower lawsuit. In 2010, United States attorneys joined two lawsuits claiming that Johnson & Johnson made improper payments to Omnicare to get the company to buy more of its schizophrenia drugs Risperdal and Invega and a respiratory drug, Natrecor, and that Omnicare’s pharmacists then recommended doctors prescribe those drugs. Johnson & Johnson said it gave standard discounts to Omnicare, and that those discounts were not illegal as long as they were properly disclosed.
249 2012-06-09 The judge overseeing Jerry Sandusky’s child sex abuse case denied the defense’s request to have the charges dismissed, leaving all 52 counts intact with opening statements three days away. Judge John Cleland’s three-paragraph order did not explain why he turned down a set of defense motions.
250 2012-06-09 But there is increasing pressure from German and other European officials to force Spain to accept a banking bailout deal before June 17. That is the date of Greek parliamentary elections that could prompt Greece to seek an exit from the euro union, potentially beginning a disintegration of the common currency.

Officials from other euro zone economies are trying frantically to increase pressure on Madrid to seek outside help “pre-emptively,” without waiting for those banking audit results, to remove one significant area of stress and uncertainty from the markets in case the Greek election “goes sideways,” according to two people close to the talks who were not authorized to speak publicly.

“This doesn’t mean at all that you get agreement on all the details” right away, one of the people said. But it would allow euro finance ministers to “get a framework around the Spanish situation” and “free up human capital” to deal with any fallout from the Greek election, this person said. “It’s really designed to manage the Greece situation and try to tie up as many loose ends as possible.”

Germany’s chancellor, Angela Merkel, in a news conference on Friday, denied that Germany was applying pressure on Spain but said that help would be there if needed.

“We have everything that is necessary for a stable development of the euro zone,” Ms. Merkel said, “and now it is, so to speak, up to the individual countries to turn to us. That has not happened yet. Therefore, Germany also won’t exert in any way any pressure here.”

This week, the French finance minister, Pierre Moscovici, said Europe was ready to help Spain if needed.

Until a few days ago, Mr. Rajoy had been delaying making the request in part because he reportedly hoped that the European Central Bank would step in, or that he could persuade other euro zone governments to agree to lend the money directly to the banks, to avoid adding to the Madrid government’s own debt load.

But Mario Draghi, the president of the central bank, made clear during the last week that he was not going to intervene. And European officials have stressed that any bailout would have to go through the Madrid government, even if Europe imposed few conditions on Spain in return for such assistance.

Since the start of the euro debt crisis more than two years ago, three governments — in Greece, Ireland and Portugal — have had to request bailouts. And those came with stringent budget and spending conditions imposed by the European Commission, the central bank and the International Monetary Fund. It is those conditions that have caused a political upheaval in Greece, where the Coalition of the Radical Left party, or Syriza, led by Alexis Tsipras, has vowed that if it comes to power it will refuse to live up to the nation’s bailout terms.

But Spain may be able to avoid the strict fiscal oversight that Greece had to accept. The euro zone’s bailout fund was empowered last year to make loans to governments for the specific purpose of recapitalizing banks, with the conditions and payback terms focused largely on the financial sector and not the government’s fiscal autonomy.

In another concession to make the move more palatable to Madrid, the I.M.F. would not be called in to help oversee the program, according to one of the people close to the discussions. Instead, the European Banking Authority would take its place, this person said. That, too, would give a bailout more of a bank focus, rather than the sort of broader jurisdiction over government finances that the I.M.F. typically demanded.

While the people close to the conversations said there might be some talks over the weekend about the technical details of a bailout, “so far” there was no conference call scheduled for the full euro group of finance ministers.

Asked about such a weekend conference call, Ms. Sáenz de Santamaría, the deputy prime minister, said Friday that European officials had not “at this moment” convened anything. “On a technical level, as far as I know, there’s nothing” planned either, she added.

Since May 9, when the Spanish government drew attention to its banking problems by seizing Bankia, the country’s biggest mortgage lender, investor panic has raised Spain’s borrowing costs to near-record highs. Bankia received an emergency infusion from the government of 4.5 billion euros ($5.6 billion) and has since then requested an additional 19 billion euros to cover bad loans. Spain is expected soon to be saddled with the bad books of three other banks; the government had put them up for auction but failed to attract buyers.

A European rescue deal limited to financing Spain’s banks, and not the government, would enable Mr. Rajoy to save face after he repeatedly denied that Spain needed any kind of bailout. But it would still be a serious blow for Mr. Rajoy’s conservative government, which was elected last November with a parliamentary majority by voters punishing the previous Socialist administration for perceived economic mismanagement.

As recently as May 28, Mr. Rajoy had vowed that “there will be no Spanish banking rescue.” But in an indication of how quickly Madrid has had to shift its stance, Mr. Rajoy’s deputy refused Friday to say whether the government was working on a bailout request. “There are things that cannot be answered like in a test, with a yes or a no,” Ms. Sáenz de Santamaría said.

Mr. Rajoy’s government is fighting a financial and economic crisis on several fronts. Spain has Europe’s highest unemployment rate, currently at 24.3 percent, and the European Commission recently forecast that Spain would be the only euro economy still in recession next year. Madrid is struggling to meet its budget deficit targets and impose stricter discipline upon its regions.

On Thursday, Fitch Ratings raised red flags over Spain’s creditworthiness by downgrading the country’s debt by three notches, to BBB from A, leaving it just above junk status.

After that downgrade, Spanish 10-year bonds traded to yield 6.12 percent Friday, up 0.08 percent, in stark contrast to the low interest rates investors are willing to accept to park their money in the euro zone’s safe harbor, Germany, whose 10-year bonds traded on Friday at 1.3 percent.
251 2012-06-09 To plan your own tuneup, consult our interactive checklist containing 31 suggestions of things you consider doing.

The list includes the aspects of your financial life that may require regular maintenance, like bolstering your annual savings by another percentage point if you can afford it. Then, there are the one-offs, like walking a loved one through your financial affairs, lest you meet an untimely demise and leave behind a confusing mess of records. You should also regularly shop for better deals on credit cards, cable and cellphones. That alone can yield four figures of annual savings.

Here are some of the tasks I tackled in my own tuneup this time around. Please share your list on our Bucks blog over the weekend.

AUTOPAYMENTS This year I added a new twist to tuneup day: a determination to attempt to right at least one wrong in the world of personal finance by going directly to a company that is thwarting efficiency and seamlessness.

I recently acquired an American Express corporate card and stopped using my personal American Express card for work expenses, so I could better track my household’s true spending. But while I’m able to pay my personal American Express bill automatically (the company pulls the full balance from my checking account each month on the due date), American Express won’t let people pay their corporate cards this way. (A majority of companies pay the bills for individuals themselves, but some, including my employer, make employees write the checks each month.)

When I asked why, American Express’s first response was that employers didn’t want us using autopay because they feared we wouldn’t pay enough attention to the bill. But that made no sense to me. You have to pay careful attention to the bill to itemize the charges on your expense report and get your reimbursement from your employer.

The Association of Corporate Travel Executives sent out a questionnaire this week about this issue and found that 25 percent of the 57 respondents who have employees pay the bill themselves would be fine with an autopay option, while 40 percent weren’t sure. As for those other 35 percent that didn’t like the idea, perhaps they haven’t heard from enough of you who would like to have this choice. This is your cue to complain to them.

An American Express spokeswoman said that I was the only person who had ever complained about this. Let’s fix that, shall we? I invite you to Tweet your displeasure to the company using its handle, @AmericanExpress; please copy me, @ronlieber, so I can see what you’re saying. I started the ball rolling when this column went up on the Web on Friday afternoon.

REBALANCING Tuneup day is as good a day as any to rebalance your retirement and other investment accounts. This year, I made a happy discovery many clicks into Vanguard’s Web site: the company will do the rebalancing of my 401(k) for me automatically every 3, 6 or 12 months, if I give it permission to do so.

Permission granted. Every investment firm should offer this service, though some employers don’t yet let retirement plan administrators present it as an option. If that’s the case where you work, request that they allow it.

Automatic rebalancing takes the emotion out of investing by removing feelings from the rebalancing task. If a computer is doing the work, humans like you won’t be tempted to let winning investments ride for too long or pull money out of stocks out of fear while rebalancing. It also keeps you from forgetting to make the adjustments.

FILE CABINETS The grown-ups in our household have security freezes on our credit files, which make it nearly impossible for anyone to open new accounts in our name. But our identity theft prevention strategy has fallen short recently because we misplaced the keys that allowed us to lock our filing cabinets.

A call to Bisley, the manufacturer, fixed that. The company dropped a master key in the mail that day and asked for a mere $3 in return.

Even if you aren’t worried about thieves getting into your files, consider the children who may live with you. At some point, they will probably become intensely curious about what you make and how much money you have. It’s probably a good idea to share this information with them at some point, but you want to do it on purpose at the right moment with the proper context.

Until then, locking them out of the files is probably best.

RENTAL CARS I am a big believer in the money value of time. But until tuneup day, I’d never gotten it together to set up memberships in every major rental car company’s program, which allows you to skip the long lines when picking up your car. After a particularly unpleasant wait at Hertz a few months ago, I resolved to deal with this. And in about half an hour on tuneup day, I fixed the problem.

The next step was to make sure that all of my account numbers were always within easy reach. For more than a decade, I’ve kept my membership numbers for various airline and hotel loyalty programs jotted down in tiny handwriting on the back of my business card from three jobs ago. Now, all this account information is stored on AwardWallet.com. I also downloaded its mobile phone app so that I’ll always have the membership numbers handy.

REWARDS AwardWallet can also update your reward program balances for most travel and credit card companies. I’ve traditionally cashed out of at least one program on tuneup day as an incentive for enduring some of the drudgery that goes along with these efforts.

This year, I called Capital One and had them send me a check for $145.19, which represents a couple years’ worth of cash back from one of its credit cards. About $50 of it went toward taking our daughter out for dinner to celebrate the end of kindergarten. The rest went into a relatively new savings account we’ve set up for her bat mitzvah.

Sure, credit card rebates alone won’t make much of a dent in that bill. But it’s a start. And if all you do on your own tuneup day is get some good new habits started, you will have accomplished an awful lot.
252 2012-06-09 Stocks rose on Friday, capping their best week so far this year. It was a relief for investors after the big decline of the previous week.

Stocks fell in morning trading, with the Dow Jones industrial average down almost 63 points. But share prices turned around after the government said businesses were restocking their shelves faster than analysts had expected.

The Commerce Department said wholesale stockpiles grew 0.6 percent in April, twice as fast as they grew in March. The growth is a sign that businesses are ordering enough goods to lead to increased factory production and sales. Investors had been braced for more sluggish growth.

Oil fell 72 cents to $84.10 a barrel, pressed down by long-term economic worries. But lower energy costs help consumers.

“If you had some doubts about an economic recovery, oil in the $80s is a lot better than oil at $110,” said James P. Dunigan, managing executive of investments for PNC Wealth Management in Philadelphia. Oil traded just below $110 in late February.
253 2012-06-09 Google has maintained that the collection of private information was accidental but a recent Federal Communications Commission report failed to completely endorse that perspective. In April, the F.C.C. fined Google $25,000, saying it had obstructed an investigation into Street View. Google has said that the data was not intended for or used in any Google product.

The Swiss ruling did not involve the collection of private Internet data but focused on the conditions for Street View cars to photograph the country’s streets.

Google introduced Street View in 2009 in Switzerland, where privacy is so closely guarded that many residents do not list their names on their mailboxes.

In 2010, the national regulator had thrown the future of Street View into question by demanding that Google’s pixilation technology, which blurred certain images, function without error, 100 percent of the time. If the high court had sided with the regulator, Google could have been forced to withdraw Street View from Switzerland because it could not meet demands for absolute accuracy.

In its ruling Friday, the Swiss Federal Supreme Court, the Bundesgericht, said Google did not have to guarantee 100 percent blurring of the faces of pedestrians, auto license plates and other identifying markers captured by Google’s Street View cars; 99 percent would be acceptable. The company, based in Mountain View, Calif., says its technology blurs faces and license plates in 99 percent of cases.

While the Swiss court sided with Google on the adequacy of its digital pixilation methods, the panel upheld several conditions demanded by the national regulator. Those conditions would require Google to lower the height of its Street View cameras so they would not peer over garden walls and hedges, to completely blur out sensitive facilities like women’s shelters, prisons, retirement homes and schools, and to advise communities in advance of scheduled tapings.

Marc Rotenberg, executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center, who has criticized the project, hailed the ruling as an important restraint on Google’s abilities to film in public. “The ruling of the Swiss court in the Street View matter puts still more pressure on Google to pull back from the controversial service,” Mr. Rotenberg said.

But Daniel Fischer, a privacy lawyer at the firm AFP Advokatur Fischer & Partner in Zurich, called the verdict “a typical Swiss legal compromise.” He added, “Both sides got to keep face.”

Peter Fleischer, Google’s global privacy counsel, said in a statement that the company would review the recommendations for adjusting its Street View procedures in Switzerland.

“We’re pleased the Swiss court has upheld a key part of our appeal, acknowledging that we have strong privacy controls in Street View,” Mr. Fleischer said.

Hanspeter Thür, the Swiss federal data protection and information commissioner, who filed the complaint against Google, said in a statement that he was very happy with the ruling.

“It supports the core of our legal argument,” the statement said.

The Swiss case was the last one pending in Europe challenging the basic legality of Street View’s photographing methods, which had first raised privacy concerns five years ago. With the exception of Greece, European regulators and courts have allowed Google to roll out Street View in 25 countries in Europe, though often with restrictions.

German prosecutors in Hamburg and the Hamburg data protection supervisor are continuing to investigate the illegal collection of Internet data, but have been hindered in part by the refusal of the Google engineer responsible for the project, Marius Milner, who lives in Palo Alto, Calif., to speak publicly about the project.

Since the F.C.C. fined Google, there has been agitation in Britain and, more mutedly, in the United States for a more thorough investigation. A coalition of attorneys general looking into the matter is continuing but has had little momentum for at least a year. The Swiss court also said Google must provide better information about Street View by, for example, allowing people to opt out of the photo archive through traditional mail services as well as online.

“A lot of people in Switzerland don’t have Internet access and they were frustrated by Google’s refusal to provide a clear postal address for their complaints,” said Eliane Schmid, a spokeswoman for the Swiss data privacy regulator.

Google employs several hundred workers at a regional office in Zurich, one of the largest it has outside the United States.
254 2012-06-09 Mr. Noda promised better oversight, saying he hoped to restart the first plant in the western town of Ohi quickly, but that he would not restart others until their safety measures had been thoroughly reviewed. His administration has already deemed the Ohi plant safe and considers it a test case for whether the public will tolerate at least some of the 50 idled commercial reactors being brought back into operation.

The restart issue has polarized Japan for months now, as the country’s still-functioning reactors went offline, one by one, for regular maintenance. In the uproar that followed the triple meltdowns at the Fukushima Daiichi plant, the government had said it would not restart the reactors without local approval, but officials did not anticipate the depth of public skepticism about the government’s ability to oversee the politically powerful nuclear industry.

That skepticism was given a powerful voice in recent months, as the upstart mayor of Japan’s third-largest city, Osaka, became the country’s most popular politician seemingly overnight by demanding more transparency on the nuclear issue and more caution in restarting plants.

Still, many Japanese share Mr. Noda’s worry that power shortages could cost jobs and accelerate the nation’s industrial decline, driving more businesses abroad.

For weeks, his government has been trying to persuade local leaders to allow a restart of the Ohi plant, which provides power to the heavily urbanized Kansai region, including the cities of Osaka and Kyoto. He has said he wants to restart that plant first because Kansai faces the most severe potential electricity shortages in Japan during the summer, when air-conditioner use surges. The area is also the home to Japan’s struggling electronics industry.

The threat of rolling blackouts seems to have persuaded most local leaders to accept at least a temporary restart of the Ohi plant. The Fukui prefectural government, which has been very supportive of nuclear power in the past, is expected to make a decision as early as next week to approve the restart.

However, the mayor of Osaka, Toru Hashimoto, who recently agreed to allowing the plant to operate for the summer, has said he may ask that it be turned off again in September, saying he is against a permanent restart until Japan revamps its nuclear oversight.

“Restarting the Ohi plant will solve the problem for now, but it still leaves open the question of what happens in September,” said Hiroshi Tasaka, a nuclear policy expert at Tama University in Tokyo who advised the previous prime minister, Naoto Kan. “There may be a political showdown if Prime Minister Noda tries to keep the plant on, or restarts other plants, without strengthening regulatory oversight.”

After his speech, about 1,000 people demonstrated outside the prime minister’s office in central Tokyo, chanting “We oppose restarts” and “Protect our children.” In recent polls, including one conducted earlier this week, about two-thirds of Japanese said they opposed immediate restarting of the nation’s plants.

In his speech, Mr. Noda sought to address some of those concerns by explaining measures his government was taking to avoid a repeat of last year’s accident, which was caused when a huge earthquake and tsunami knocked out cooling systems at Fukushima Daiichi.

The main step, he said, was overhauling Japan’s current regulatory oversight, which he admitted had failed to prevent the Fukushima accident. A series of recent investigations into the causes of the accident have painted a picture of plant operators who hid safety violations, and compliant regulators who sought to save the operators money by ignoring warnings that the plant was vulnerable to tsunamis.

Mr. Noda said his government was moving as quickly as possible to create an independent nuclear regulatory agency. He was responding to criticism that the current watchdog, the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency, suffers from conflict of interest issues because it is part of the Ministry of Economics, Trade and Industry, which is charged with promoting the nuclear industry.

He also said the prime minister’s office would move quickly to take direct control in the case of a future accident, such as by dispatching a top official to the site of the accident. Critics of the government’s handling of the Fukushima accident have said the prime minister at the time, Mr. Kan, was out of touch and too inconsistent during the crucial first days of the accident.
255 2012-06-09 Mr. Cameron in particular has had close ties, according to previous testimony, with the former chief executive of News International, Rebekah Brooks, and with a former Murdoch newspaper editor, Andy Coulson, who became Mr. Cameron’s director of communications both in opposition and at 10 Downing Street.

Ms. Brooks and Mr. Coulson were forced by the phone hacking scandal to resign last year and both of them have been charged in recent weeks with criminal offenses. In late May, Mr. Coulson, 44, was charged with lying under oath in a case in Scotland and, in a separate development, Ms. Brooks has been charged with conspiracy to pervert the course of justice.

In testimony to the inquiry, Ms. Brooks said Mr. Cameron routinely signed off text messages to her with the letters “LOL,” which he took to mean “lots of love,” until she told him it meant “laugh out loud.”

In one of the more bizarre revelations of Britain’s interlocked inquiries into phone hacking, political cronyism and police corruption, Mr. Cameron was forced by persistent questioning in the media in March to admit that he had once ridden a former police horse, Raisa, lent to Ms. Brooks by Scotland Yard after the horse was retired from duty in 2008.

The equestrian episode seemed to reinforce a perception of cozy cross ties between politicians and News International, since Mr. Cameron and Ms. Brooks belong to what is known in Britain as the Chipping Norton set, a well-heeled social network in the countryside west of London.

Mr. Cameron initially denied riding Raisa at the country mansion Ms. Brooks shares with her horse-trainer husband, Charlie Brooks, close to Mr. Cameron’s private home and his official country residence, Chequers.

Finally, though, he acknowledged that he had ridden the horse once while still in opposition.

More portentously, the Labour opposition has assailed Mr. Cameron for displaying what it calls a lack of judgment by hiring Mr. Coulson even after it first emerged that reporters at the now defunct Murdoch Sunday tabloid, The News of the World, had intercepted voice mail messages.

For his part, Mr. Brown, the former prime minister, spoke last summer of his anguish when Ms. Brooks informed him in 2006 that The Sun, a daily tabloid owned by News International, planned to print an article revealing that his 4-month-old son had cystic fibrosis. Ms. Brooks has told the Leveson inquiry that Mr. Brown and his wife, Sarah, had no objection to publication of the story.

The inquiry has also focused on what seems a chummy relationship between Conservative politicians and News Corporation in another area — the $12 billion bid by News Corporation to assume full control of Britain’s leading satellite broadcaster, BSkyB. The bid was abandoned last year as a result of the phone hacking inquiry.

In late May, Culture Minister Jeremy Hunt, a close associate of Mr. Cameron, told the inquiry that he had been personally sympathetic to the bid, but did not act with improper bias when he was assigned to oversee it.

The relationship between Mr. Murdoch and successive British governments is an object some fascination here since his tabloid newspapers are generally seen by politicians as influencing millions of undecided voters. Mr. Murdoch’s tabloids supported the Conservatives for many years, but switched to Labour before the 1997 election that brought Tony Blair of the Labour Party to power. Mr. Blair testified before the inquiry in late May.

Shortly before the 2010 election, which produced a coalition led by Mr. Cameron and Mr. Clegg, a Liberal Democrat, as junior partner, the Murdoch tabloids switched back to the Conservatives. Both Mr. Murdoch and his son James have appeared before the inquiry to explain their side of the arrangements.

In his testimony, Rupert Murdoch quoted former Prime Minister Gordon Brown as saying he would “make war” on Murdoch companies after the tabloids switched to the Conservatives in late 2009. But Mr. Brown responded by saying the allegation was “wholly wrong.”
256 2012-06-09 Senator James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma, is raising questions about Brett McGurk, President Obama's nominee for ambassador to Iraq, after leaked e-mails surfaced purporting to show that Mr. McGurk had a relationship with an Iraq correspond...
257 2012-06-09 “Most people would have called it a day,” Martina Navratilova, one of the most accomplished players ever, said earlier in the week. “She stayed with it. I wouldn’t have thought she was capable of doing that two, three years ago. Great for the sport, I think, and good for her.

“She’s a superstar, and it’s always good if a superstar is on top.”

On Monday, Sharapova will still be the reigning French Open champion, will still remember that tournament officials announced her as runner-up at the championship ceremony, will still hear the Russian national anthem that played once they got that whole who-won-thing sorted out. She will also ascend to the No. 1 ranking, and for those who disagreed with Navratilova’s assessment of Sharapova’s superstar status, it will be more difficult to argue than before.

When it ended, after the tears were shed and the babies kissed, Sharapova ducked into a tunnel. She called her mother, a quiet, understated influence, who told her to enjoy a few days off. She called her father, Yuri, a loud and prominent influence and often not in a positive light. He was riding his bike. “Great job,” she said he told her. “Talk to you later.”

Sharapova laughed at this, same as she laughed throughout this tournament. She seemed relaxed here, comfortable, at ease. She joked about the perception of her as a diva (much fancy makeup, none of the mental kind), about her failed attempt to learn the local language, about how she loved to people-watch.

Imagine that: the player who spent years with all eyes on her was actually watching back.

If this all seemed strange, so not like Sharapova, she insisted she had changed. She said she treated herself before the final with room service and a massage. She praised Coach Thomas Hogstedt, the kind of guy, she said, who locked himself in rooms and studied tennis for days on end, who insisted she could return to No. 1.

This showed in the way Sharapova played throughout the fortnight. Her first six matches lasted all of  eight and a half hours.

“I had so many outs in my career,” Sharapova said. “I could have said, ‘I don’t need this. I have money; I have fame; I have victories; I have Grand Slams.’ But when your love for something is bigger than all those things, you continue to get up in the morning when it’s freezing outside, when it can be the most difficult day, when nothing is working, when you feel like belief isn’t there form the outside world, and you seem so small.

“You can achieve great things when you don’t listen.”

On Friday, Navratilova said it would take “a monumental effort” for Errani to contend. The mismatch, as Navratilova saw it, would come on Errani’s serve, her weakest shot, against Sharapova’s service return, her best one.

Midway through the second set, Sharapova had won 70 percent of the points against Errani’s second serve, just as Navratilova had predicted. Sharapova was then more likely to break serve than to hold it, and thus the odds titled even more heavily in her favor.

Sharapova buried Errani with those returns, with ground strokes and grunts, the former hard and flat and angled, the latter long and loud. Before Errani blinked, Sharapova led, 4-0. For Errani, who won the women’s doubles title Friday, who beat a top 10 player for the first time Tuesday and the second time Thursday, her best tournament ended there.

“I start very bad,” Errani said, and that worked as a proper summary.

Sharapova, on the other hand, required a more lengthy explanation, of her emergence and her operation and her comeback, all by the age of 25. Soon, Wimbledon and her favorite surface and the tournament that started it all.

“It’s not over yet,” she said, and then she smiled, a sly smile and a knowing one.
258 2012-06-09 Ada María Isasi-Díaz would have become a Roman Catholic priest, she told friends, if not for the church's ban on ordaining women. Instead, she became a dissident theologian who spoke for those she considered the neglected spiritual core of the c...
259 2012-06-09 6:25 p.m. | Updated      It had to have been among the least productive weeks of Lloyd C. Blankfein's six-year tenure as the chief executive of Goldman Sachs....
260 2012-06-10 Diane Ackerman on the natural world, the world of human endeavor and connections between the two.
261 2012-06-10 The decision represents an about-face for Rajat K. Gupta, a former Goldman Sachs director. Late Friday, his lawyer said it was "highly likely" that he would testify....
262 2012-06-10 In their two-hour set, the Chili Peppers repeatedly knocked their music apart and slammed it back together....
263 2012-06-10 Experts weigh in on how the recreational golfer can learn from those competing in the United States Open....
264 2012-06-10 SC Johnson Gallery in Racine, Wis., offers another attraction for aficionados of Frank Lloyd Wright....
265 2012-06-10 Play has been officially called for the night because of a rain delay, and Rafael Nadal and Novak Djokovic will resume the men’s French Open final on Monday....
266 2012-06-10 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
267 2012-06-10 Alissa Florence Stollwerk and Dr. Jason Adam Cohen are to be married Sunday morning at the Shelter Rock Jewish Center in Roslyn, N.Y. The ceremony is to be performed by the synagogue’s leader, Rabbi Martin S. Cohen. Cantor Alexis K. Sklar is to take part in the ceremony.

The bride, 28, is keeping her name. She is pursuing a doctorate in political science at Columbia, from which she also received a master’s degree. She graduated magna cum laude from Yale, from which she received a bachelor’s and another master’s in political science simultaneously. She received a third master’s, in secondary social studies education, from Pace.

Ms. Stollwerk is the daughter of Susan Spizz Stollwerk and David Stollwerk of Searingtown, N.Y. The bride’s father retired as an English teacher from Herricks High School in New Hyde Park, N.Y. He is on the board of the Nassau Suffolk Services for Autism. Her mother is a reference librarian and adjunct professor of library services at Hofstra.

The bridegroom, also 28, has completed an internship year in general medicine and will begin a neurology residency in July at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. He graduated summa cum laude from Brandeis University and received a medical degree from the Mount Sinai School of Medicine.

Dr. Cohen is a son of Judy R. Cohen and Michael R. Cohen of Kew Gardens Hills, Queens. The bridegroom’s mother retired as an assessment implementation director for the New York City Department of Education. She coordinated standardized testing on Staten Island and in parts of Brooklyn. His father retired as a computer software developer for the Salvation Army. He worked in Manhattan.

Ms. Stollwerk and Dr. Cohen were introduced by mutual friends at a party she was giving in her Manhattan apartment on March 14, 2009, to celebrate various March holidays: St. Patrick’s Day, the Ides of March, Mardi Gras and Purim. She had not noted, however, that the date coincided with Pi Day, which is celebrated by math enthusiasts (Pi = 3.14, for short).
268 2012-06-10 Melissa Anne Lubin and Merritt Michael Duff were married Saturday at the Wainwright House, an event space in Rye, N.Y. Matthew Brensilver, a friend of the bridegroom and a Universal Life minister, officiated.

The bride, 29, and the bridegroom, 36, met at their place of work, Cutting Room Films, a film editorial company in New York that specializes in the editing and postproduction of commercials. She is the company’s executive producer, and he is a film editor.

Ms. Lubin graduated from Binghamton University. She is a daughter of Susan L. Ward of Chappaqua, N.Y., and Peter S. Lubin of Great Neck, N.Y. The bride’s father, who is a producer and a consultant to musical artists and record labels, retired as a senior vice president in the artists and repertory department at Mercury Records, a subsidiary of the Universal Music Group. Her mother is a sales associate and social media specialist for Elephant’s Trunk, a women’s special-occasion boutique in Mount Kisco, N.Y.

Mr. Duff graduated from Colby College. He is the son of Patrica Donovan-Duff and Robert Michael Duff of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. The bridegroom’s mother is the director of the Bereavement Center of Westchester in Tuckahoe, N.Y., a community organization that offers support to families and friends of the deceased. His father retired as an independent cinematographer in New York.
269 2012-06-10 Ms. Keany had always expected to work into her 70s and add to her retirement cushion. But after losing her job as an executive assistant at an advertising agency in 2008, she searched fruitlessly for full-time work and exhausted her unemployment benefits. For a while, she strung together odd jobs and lived off her 401(k) retirement and profit-sharing accounts. Then, this year, with her savings depleted and no job offers in sight, she reluctantly applied for Social Security.

Gazing out the window where the Santa Rosa mountains rise behind the mobile home park, she said, “It just seems a waste of a life, to be honest.”

Drawing Social Security early has repercussions that will be hard to overcome even if the economy — and her work prospects — improve. By collecting four years shy of her full retirement age, Ms. Keany will receive a reduced monthly benefit for the rest of her life. Those who collect early get 20 to 30 percent less a month than they would get if they waited until full retirement age, which varies by year of birth. People in Ms. Keany’s age bracket are expected to live an average of close to 23 more years.

“The most potent lever that individuals can pull in trying to get themselves a secure retirement income is to postpone claiming” Social Security, said Alicia H. Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College.

As recently as a decade ago, half of those eligible claimed Social Security at 62. But that share has been falling because people are living longer and still want to work as well as shore up retirement funds. That makes it even more galling for those who are forced to claim early because of unemployment. Several people interviewed mentioned blows to their self-esteem along with abandoned dreams of a more comfortable old age.

According to an analysis by Richard W. Johnson, director of the retirement policy program at the Urban Institute, 37 percent of older workers who lost their jobs between 2008 and 2011 and did not return to work ended up claiming Social Security as soon as they turned 62.

Ms. Keany, who was born in Britain, was making $64,000 a year as an administrative manager for a boutique advertising agency in Santa Monica when the firm lost two of its biggest clients in one week. She has nearly three decades of experience in the United States. She has managed offices, arranged visits by foreign dignitaries, composed employee handbooks and finessed demanding bosses. She said she had also run errands for movie producers, organized home offices and coordinated the administrative details of a drug study.

Those years of experience now work against her, she thinks. “I’m overly qualified, overly skilled,” she said.

Her age is also most likely an impediment. After they lose a job, older workers tend to have a much harder time finding another than younger workers.

A Government Accountability Office report found that just under a third of those 55 to 64 who lost their jobs from 2007 through 2009 had found full-time work by January 2010, compared with 41 percent of people 25 to 54. The median duration of unemployment for those 55 and older was 34.1 weeks in May, according to the Labor Department, in contrast to 22 weeks for all jobless people over 16.

Ms. Keany, who is single and has no children, tried a change of geography. Because the economy in California was so weak, she moved in with friends in Charlotte, N.C., three years ago in hopes of having better luck there. She signed up with employment offices and volunteered, but did not find paying work.

Another friend invited her to stay on the Outer Banks of North Carolina, where Ms. Keany eventually began work at a women’s recovery house in exchange for room and utilities. Then Hurricane Irene hit last August and damaged the house. Ms. Keany could not afford to stay.

In a panic, she used the last of her savings to move to Palm Springs last October and buy a $19,000 one-bedroom mobile home in the same park where friends lived two doors down.

“I was so frantic at that point and I was at my wit’s end,” said Ms. Keany, saying she still planned to find a job. “I thought at least with Palm Springs it’s a retirement resort community and I know there’s a lot of business here as well.”

She scoured Craigslist for affluent residents seeking personal assistants. She took a one-month job in Los Angeles, chauffeuring the principal actor on a movie. She applied for a job as a concierge at a Marriott Hotel, but withdrew after hearing it offered only eight hours a week.

Finally, in January, she gave in and filed for Social Security. Her monthly check covers the $336 mobile home park fee plus utilities, her cellphone bill, insurance and a satellite dish. She is also paying $100 a month in credit card debt. To save money, she has canceled the data plan on her BlackBerry and cut back on fresh fruits and vegetables.

After a wind storm blew out a window, she covered it with a tarp because she could not afford to replace the glass.

Ms. Keany is still hoping to find work. Social Security recipients younger than full retirement age can earn up to $14,640 a year without sacrificing any of their monthly benefit. At Ms. Keany’s age, for every $2 earned over that amount, Social Security deducts $1 in benefits.

This month, she flew back to the Outer Banks to stay with friends and work part time in two gift shops over the summer. If she cannot find permanent work in North Carolina, she plans to return to Palm Springs in the fall.

She is discouraged by what she sees as youth-obsessed employers. “We’re already has-beens, which is so sad,” Ms. Keany said. “Some of us are still pretty productive.”
270 2012-06-10 We used to. A century or two ago, in some rural communities, animals and humans were cared for by the same practitioner. And physicians and veterinarians both claim the same 19th-century doctor, William Osler, as a father of their fields. However, animal and human medicine began a decisive split in the late 1800s. Increasing urbanization meant that fewer people relied on animals to make a living. Motorized vehicles began pushing work animals out of daily life.

Most physicians see animals and their illnesses as somehow “different.” Humans have their diseases. Animals have theirs. The human medical establishment has an undeniable, though unspoken, bias against veterinary medicine.

While it rankles when M.D.’s condescend, most vets simply take a resigned approach to their more glamorous counterparts on the human side. Several have even confided to me a veterinarians’ inside joke: What do you call a physician? A veterinarian who treats only one species.

My medical education included stern warnings against the tantalizing pull to anthropomorphize. In those days, noticing pain or sadness on the face of an animal was criticized as projection, fantasy, or sloppy sentimentality. But scientific advancements of the past two decades suggest that we should adopt an updated perspective. Seeing too much of ourselves in other animals might not be the problem we think it is. Underappreciating our own animal natures may be the greater limitation.

PEOPLE who didn’t smoke, drink or tan and who avoided microwaving food in plastic and cooking on Teflon can develop cancer. It strikes yoga practitioners, breast-feeders and organic gardeners; infants, 5-year-olds, 15-year-olds, 55-year-olds and 85-year-olds.

Even the briefest survey of cancer in other animals sheds light on a critical but overlooked truth: Where cells divide, where DNA replicates, and where growth occurs, there will be cancer. Cancer is as natural a part of the animal kingdom as birth, reproduction and death. And it’s as old as the dinosaurs.

Osteosarcoma, the cancer that forced Ted Kennedy’s son, Ted Junior, to undergo an amputation in the early 1970s, attacks the bones of wolves, grizzly bears, camels and polar bears. And the neuroendocrine cancer that claimed the life of Apple’s co-founder, Steve Jobs, while rare in humans, is a fairly common tumor of the domestic ferret and has been diagnosed in German shepherds, cocker spaniels, Irish setters and other dog breeds.

Breast cancer strikes mammals from cougars, kangaroos and llamas to sea lions, beluga whales and black-footed ferrets. Some breast cancer in women (and the occasional man) is connected to a mutation of a gene called BRCA1. All humans have a BRCA1 gene. But about one in 800 of us are born with a mutated version, which increases the risk for certain cancers. For Jewish women of Ashkenazi descent, it’s as high as one in 50. And BRCA1-related breast cancer occurs in some animals, too: English springer spaniels, and possibly big cats like jaguars.

But some groups of mammals, intriguingly, may be protected from it.

The latte you sipped this morning contained milk from an animal sorority that very rarely gets breast cancer. Professional lactators — the dairy cows and goats that make milk for a living — have rates of mammary cancer that are so low as to be statistically insignificant. That animals which lactate early and long seem to have some protection against breast cancer is not only fascinating, it parallels human epidemiologic data that tie breast-feeding to reduced mammary cancer risk.

Another thing we can learn from animal cancer is the extent to which it’s caused by outside invaders: viruses. Veterinary oncologists see this all the time. Lymphomas and leukemias among cattle and cats are quite frequently viral. Many of the cancers sweeping sea creatures from turtles to dolphins are rooted in papilloma and herpes viruses. Between 15 and 20 percent of cancers worldwide are caused by infections, many of which are viral.

And noticing where cancer isn’t can be as instructive as noticing where it is. Dogs rarely get colon cancer. Lung cancer is also atypical, although short- and medium-nosed dogs living in homes with smokers are susceptible. Canine breast cancer is rarer in countries that promote spaying but quite common where most female dogs remain reproductively intact. As the veterinary oncologists Melissa Paoloni and Chand Khanna point out, two breeds of dogs seem to get cancer less often than others: beagles and dachshunds. Like the professional lactators who rarely get breast cancer, these extra-healthy dog breeds may point to behaviors or physiology that offer cancer protection.

ANIMALS don’t have access to liquor stores, pharmacies or corner drug dealers. But the intoxicants in those drugs are found in nature — opium in poppies, alcohol in fermented fruit and berries, stimulants in coca leaves and coffee. Given the opportunity, some animals do indulge ... and get intoxicated.

Addiction researchers have shown that genetics, vulnerable brain chemistry, and environmental triggers play roles in human substance abuse. But ultimately, on the receiving end of the syringe, joint or martini glass is a person making a choice, at least in the initial stages of drug use. This makes addiction uniquely bewildering to physicians, psychiatrists, sufferers and the people who care for them. Why is it so hard for addicts to “just say no”? It turns out that saying “no” is hard for animals too.

Cedar waxwing birds are known to ingest fermented berries, fly while intoxicated and crash into glass walls. In Tasmania, wallabies have broken into fields where medical opium was growing, eaten the sap and got stoned.

Some animals show chronic drug-seeking behaviors. Bighorn sheep grind their teeth to the gums scraping hallucinogenic lichen off boulders in the Canadian Rockies; some Siberian reindeer seek out magic mushrooms.

A friendly cocker spaniel in Texas once sent her owners’ lives into a tailspin when she turned her attention to toad licking. As described in an NPR story, the spaniel, Lady, had been the perfect pet, until one day she got a taste of the hallucinogenic toxin on the skin of a cane toad. Soon she was obsessed with the back door, always begging to get out. She’d beeline to the pond in the backyard and sniff out the toads. Once she found them, she mouthed them so vigorously she sucked the pigment right out of their skin. According to her owners, after these amphibian benders Lady would be “disoriented and withdrawn, soporific and glassy-eyed.”

In lab settings, rats have been shown to seek out and self-administer doses — sometimes to the point of death — of various drugs, from nicotine and caffeine to cocaine and heroin. Once addicted (researchers say “habituated”) they may forgo food and even water to get their drug of choice. Like us, they also use more when they’re stressed by pain, overcrowding or subordinate social position. Some ignore their offspring.

Taking a species-spanning perspective of drug use reveals something important: The urge to use has stayed in the gene pool for millions of years and for a counterintuitive reason. Although addiction can destroy, its existence may have promoted survival.

Here’s what I mean: Foraging, stalking prey, hoarding food, searching for and finding a desirable mate, and nest building are all examples of activities that greatly enhance an animal’s chances of survival and reproduction, or what biologists call fitness. Animals are rewarded with pleasurable, positive sensations for these important life-sustaining undertakings. Pleasure rewards behaviors that help us survive.

Conversely, unpleasant feelings like fear and isolation indicate to animals that they are in survival-threatening situations. Anxiety makes them careful. Fear keeps them out of harm’s way.

And one thing creates, controls and shapes these sensations, whether positive or negative: a cacophonous chemical conversation in the brains and nervous systems of animals. Time-melting opioids, reality-revving dopamine, boundary-softening oxytocin, appetite-enhancing cannabinoids and a multitude of other neurohormones reward behavior.

We humans get drug rewards for life-sustaining activities just as animals do. We simply call those activities by different names: Shopping. Accumulating wealth. Dating. House hunting. Interior decorating. Cooking.

When these behaviors have been studied in humans, they are associated with rises in the release of certain natural chemicals, including dopamine and opiates.

The key point is that behaviors are the triggers. Do something that evolution has favored, and you get a hit. Don’t do it, and you don’t get your fix.

And this is precisely why drugs can so brutally derail lives. Ingesting, inhaling or injecting intoxicants — in concentrations far higher than our bodies were designed to reward us with — overwhelms a system carefully calibrated over millions of years. These substances hijack our internal mechanisms. They remove the need for the animal to input a behavior, before receiving a chemical dose. In other words, pharmaceuticals and street drugs offer a false fast track to reward — a shortcut to the sensation that we’re doing something beneficial.

This is a critical nuance for understanding addiction. With access to external drugs, the animal isn’t required to “work” first — to forage, flee, socialize or protect. Instead, he goes straight to reward. The chemicals provide a false signal to the animal’s brain that his fitness has improved, although it has not actually changed at all.

Why go through a half-hour of awkward small talk at an office party when a martini or two can trick your brain into thinking you’ve already done some social bonding? Drugs tell users’ brains that they’ve just done an important, fitness-enhancing task.

Ultimately, however, the powerful urge to use and reuse is provided by brain biology that evolved because it maximized survival. Seen this way, we’re all born addicts. Substance addiction and behavioral addiction are linked. Their common language is in the shared neurocircuitry that rewards fitness-promoting behaviors.

Consider the most common behavioral addictions from an evolutionary perspective. Sex. Binge eating. Exercise. Working. They are exceedingly fitness enhancing.

Connecting brain-rewarding behaviors to increased survival allowed me to rethink technological “addictions” like video gaming, e-mailing and social networking. Our smartphones, Facebook pages and Twitter feeds profoundly combine the things that matter most to animals competing to survive: a social network, access to mates, and information about predatory threats.

Understanding the comparative biology and evolutionary origins of addiction can improve how we understand this disease and its sufferers. First, individual humans vary greatly in their vulnerability to addiction. So do animals, from mammals to worms. In addition, human and animal data both suggest that the younger the animal is at the first exposure to an external drug, the more likely it is to become addicted and responsive to that drug in the future. This is a very important point.

In the United States, we’ve tried Prohibition and “just say no” campaigns. We’ve set the drinking age at 21 and the illegal drug use age at never. None of these interventions has completely stopped teenagers from going after what they want.

But the evidence suggests that it’s wise for parents to try harder to delay their children’s first exposures and, perhaps, to teach them natural ways of achieving those chemical rewards: through exercise, physical and mental competitions, or “safe” risk-taking, like performing.

Substance abusers can learn healthy behaviors that provide the same (albeit less potent) good feelings they used to seek from a bottle, a pill or a needle. In fact, that may be what makes some rehab programs so effective for certain addicts. The behaviors these programs encourage — socializing, seeking companionship, anticipating, planning and finding purpose — are all part of an ancient, calibrated system that rewards survival behaviors with drugs from an animal’s inborn pharmacy.

ALTHOUGH I’m a cardiologist, some days I feel more like a nutritionist. Patients, family members and friends frequently ask me, “What should I be eating?” We all know by now that choosing the wrong foods and carrying extra weight on our bodies can make us sick.

But humans aren’t the only animals on our planet who get fat. In the wild, animals as varied as birds, reptiles, fish and even insects regularly gain — and then take off — weight. Closer to home, nearly half of our pet dogs, cats, even horses and birds are now overweight or obese, despite the low-carb, feline “Catkins” diet, canine liposuction and increased exercise for bird “perch potatoes.” With our pets’ excess pounds has come a familiar suite of obesity- related ailments: diabetes, cardiovascular problems, musculoskeletal disorders, glucose intolerance, some cancers and possibly high blood pressure. They’re familiar because we see nearly identical problems in obese human patients.

I’d long assumed that wild animals stayed effortlessly lean and healthy. I’d always thought that wild animals ate until they were full and then prudently stopped. But in fact, given the chance, many wild fish, reptiles, birds and mammals overindulge. Sometimes spectacularly so. Abundance plus access — the twin downfalls of many a human dieter — can challenge wild animals, too.

Although we may think of food in the wild as hard to come by, at certain times of the year and under certain conditions, the supply may be unlimited. Many gorge, stopping only when their digestive tracts literally cannot take any more. Tamarin monkeys have been seen to eat so many berries in one sitting that their intestines are overwhelmed and they soon excrete the same whole fruits they recently gobbled down.

Mark Edwards, an animal nutrition expert, told me, “We’re all hard-wired to consume resources in excess of daily requirements. I can’t think of a species that doesn’t.” Wild animals can get fat with unfettered access to food.

Of course, animals also fatten normally — and healthily — in response to seasonal and life cycles. Remarkably, it is the landscape around an animal that determines whether its weight stays steady or rises.

And nature imposes its own “weight-maintenance plan” on wild animals. Cyclical periods of food scarcity are typical. Threats from predators limit access to food. Weight goes up, but it also comes down. If you want to lose weight the wild animal way, decrease the abundance of food around yourself and interrupt your access to it. And expend lots of energy in the daily hunt for food. In other words: change your environment.

Looking across the species divide and seeing weight gain in a broader context forces us to consider factors beyond the “diet and exercise” dogma. Even without an assist from 32-ounce sodas, the yellow-bellied marmots in the Rockies, blue whales off the coast of California and country rats in Maryland have gotten steadily chubbier in recent years. The explanation might lie in the disruption of circadian rhythms. Of the global dynamics controlling our biological clocks — including temperature, eating, sleeping and even socializing — no “zeitgeber” is more influential than light.

New research suggests that when, and how much, light beams through your eyes may play a quiet and unrecognized role in determining your dress or pants size. And the breaking up of light-dark cycles may be a culprit. Light pollution from suburban sprawl, big-city skyglow, electronic billboards and stadium lights has brightened our planet. A rodent study published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences showed that mice housed with constant light — whether bright or dim — had higher body mass indexes (B.M.I.’s) and blood sugar levels than mice housed with standard cycles of dark and light.

Another invisible weight driver is housed within our own abdomens: the trillions of microscopic organisms that live in our guts. This world is called the microbiome, and it is colonized by two dominant groups of bacteria: the Firmicutes and the Bacteroidetes. In the mid-2000s, some scientists made an interesting observation. They found that obese humans had a higher proportion of Firmicutes in their intestines. Lean humans had more Bacteroidetes. As the obese humans lost weight over the course of a year, their microbiomes started looking more like those of lean individuals — with Bacteroidetes outnumbering Firmicutes.

When the researchers looked at mice, they found the same thing. Although not all research has replicated those results, if that observation turns out to be true, it means that a booming Firmicute colony might help harvest, say, 100 calories from one person’s apple. That person’s friend may have a dominant Bacteroidete population that would extract only 70 calories from the same apple. This could be one factor in why your co-worker can eat twice as much as everyone else but never seems to gain weight. The power of the microbiome is well known to the veterinarians who oversee the care of animals we make fat on purpose: livestock. Nowadays, it’s common for factory farming operations to administer antibiotics to food animals from 1,500-pound steers to one-ounce baby chicks. The effect of those antibiotics on the living colonies of gut bugs in the animals’ intestines may inform human obesity research.

Antibiotics don’t kill just the bugs that make animals sick. Simply by giving antibiotics, farmers can fatten their animals using less feed. One hypothesis is that by changing the animals’ gut microflora, antibiotics create an intestine dominated by colonies of microbes that are calorie-extraction experts. Anything that alters gut flora, including but not limited to antibiotics, has implications not only for body weight but for other elements of our metabolism, such as glucose intolerance, insulin resistance and abnormal cholesterol.

Modern, affluent humans have created a continuous eating cycle, a kind of “uniseason.” Our food is stripped of microbes, and we remove more while scrubbing off dirt and pesticides. Because we control it, the temperature is always a perfect 74 degrees. Because we’re in charge, we can safely dine at tables aglow in light long after the sun goes down. All year round, our days are lovely and long; our nights are short.

As animals, we find this single season an extremely comfortable place to be. But unless we want to remain in a state of continual fattening, with accompanying metabolic diseases, we will have to pry ourselves out of this delicious ease.

PROBABLY our era’s most iconic form of human self-harm, seemingly tailor-made for suburban-parent hand-wringing and tabloid ogling, is cutting. Its name says it all, but in case you don’t know: it means taking something sharp — maybe a razor blade, scissors, broken glass or a safety pin — and slicing it across your skin to draw blood and create wounds. Psychiatrists call cutters “self-injurers” to include the whole range of inventive ways people dream up to hurt themselves. Some burn themselves on purpose with cigarettes, lighters or teakettles. Others bruise their skin by banging, punching or pinching themselves. Those with trichotillomania rub and rip out hair on their heads, faces, limbs and genitals. Some are swallowers, ingesting objects like pencils, buttons, shoelaces or silverware. We see this particular method a lot in prisons.

You may think self-injury occurs only in edgy subcultures or the seriously mentally ill. But my psychiatrist colleagues say it’s sweeping through the general population. Why? A 22-year-old woman posting on a university blog put it this way: “I began cutting my arms at the age of 12... I think I could best describe the feeling I get as total bliss. It relaxes me.”

Bliss? Relaxation? Relief? Even after years of psychiatry training and two decades around a hospital, I still think this sounds incredible. But cutters and their therapists say it’s true. And they confirm that most self-injurers are not suicidal. But as to why they do it, the short answer is that we don’t really know.

I decided to see what insights a zoobiquitous approach could add.

A friend of mine once took her cat to the vet assuming it had a skin affliction that was causing all the hair to fall off its legs, revealing red, oozing sores. After some tests to rule out parasites and systemic diseases, her vet said her pet was a “closet licker.” It’s a common diagnosis for house cats, sometimes called psychogenic alopecia. The cat was injuring itself with no clear physical trigger, in a way that was reminiscent of a human cutter alone in her room.

Owners of golden retrievers, Labrador retrievers, German shepherds, Great Danes, and Doberman pinschers will probably recognize a condition that often affects those breeds — in which they obsessively lick and gnaw at their own bodies. The open sores they create can cover the entire surface of a limb or the base of the tail.

“Flank biters” are horses that violently nip at their own bodies, drawing blood and reopening wounds.

The owners of these horses, like parents who discover their teenager is cutting, are often confused and heartbroken by the behavior, which can include bursts of violent spinning, kicking, lunging and bucking.

When owners bring in pets who circle furniture for hours, do back flips to the point of physical exhaustion or rub their skin to the point of breakage and bleeding, veterinarians sometimes describe these behaviors as “stereotypies.” Many of the compulsive behaviors seen in horses, reptiles, birds, dogs and humans share core clinical features, including the potential to cause suffering and profoundly disrupt a patient’s life. But many also share an intriguing connection to cleaning activities.

You’ve probably heard about the repetitive hand washing practiced by many sufferers of obsessive-compulsive disorder. Similarly, a stressed cat may go overboard with a feline’s cleaning tool of choice, its raspy tongue. Veterinarians have come up with a colloquial term that cuts right to the heart of what’s going on here. They call it, simply, “overgrooming.”

Grooming is as basic an activity for many creatures as eating, sleeping and breathing. Evolution probably favored nature’s neat freaks because they were the ones with fewer parasites and infections.

Grooming plays a vital role in the social structure of many animal groups, and it feels good. There’s also a more private form of grooming — small behaviors that all but the most virtuous of us engage in all the time and often unconsciously. In general, they’re innocent enough, but given the choice, we definitely wouldn’t want to show them in public or watch other people do them.

Are your cuticles smooth or are there some rough edges begging to be picked or nibbled off? Are you twirling a lock of hair around your finger, twisting your eyebrows, stroking your own cheek, massaging your own scalp? Studies looking at hair pulling, scab picking and nail biting all point to a calm, trancelike state that typically accompanies these small, automatic, self-soothing activities.

Perhaps the fingers playing with your hair sometimes have the urge to pull a strand out. There’s that slight tension as the root clings to the follicle ...you gently tug harder ... and a little harder ...until finally, there’s that short, sharp sting and the hair releases. Humans rely on this release-relief loop throughout the day. We may rub, pull, nibble or squeeze a little more when we’re stressed, but for most of us the behavior never escalates. But for some people the need for that feeling of release and relief is so strong that they seek extreme levels of it. Self-harm is truly grooming gone wild.

In a way, self-harmers are actually self-medicators. That’s because, paradoxically, both pain and grooming cause the body to release natural opiates, such as endorphins, the same brain chemicals that give marathoners their runner’s high.

The typical middle-class teen is a little like the horse alone in its stall, with most of its needs provided in easy-to-digest chunks. He’s left with lots of extra time and few activities as invigorating as a daily struggle for survival. Zookeepers make animals forage to avoid boredom. Should we explore getting teens involved in growing and preparing their own foods, an activity that can produce feelings of profound calm and purpose?

All of us — from full-blown cutters to secret hair pluckers and nail biters — share our grooming compulsions with animals. Grooming represents a hard-wired drive, one that’s evolved over millions of years with the positive benefits of keeping us clean and binding us socially.

Our essential connection with animals extends from body to behavior, from psychology to society. This calls for physicians and patients to join veterinarians in thinking beyond the human bedside to barnyards, oceans and skies.
271 2012-06-10 Reports from international agencies usually make for dull reading. “Golden Rules for a Golden Age of Gas,” from the Paris-based International Energy Agency, does not. It should be required reading for regulators and the industry — and for anyone who cares about energy, the environment and climate change.

The report examines the perils and promise of the global natural gas boom brought about by a controversial drilling process called hydraulic fracturing. While some environmentalists are determined to shut hydrofracturing down, the report says that shale gas can be safely extracted, and at relatively low cost, and is preferable to coal in terms of emissions that contribute to global warming. But the report also makes clear that regulators and the industry will have to be much more aggressive in protecting the water and the air from pollutants released by the process.

For the Obama administration, and regulators in the 14 states where natural gas is booming, this means imposing tough new rules on every stage: making sure that industry constructs leakproof wells that do not pollute the water table, and safely recycling or storing the millions of gallons of contaminated water produced by every well. Regulators must also require industry to keep methane, a powerful greenhouse gas, from leaking into the atmosphere from wellheads or pipelines.

For their part, the oil and gas companies — both the ExxonMobils and the mom-and-pops that abound in hydrofracturing — need to drop their warfare against necessary regulations.

Switching to natural gas is not going to solve climate change. But a gas-fired power plant emits only half as much carbon dioxide as a coal-fired plant, and this is no time to squander any advantage. Two weeks ago, the International Energy Agency announced that atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide in 2011 were 3.2 percent higher than the year before, and are now at record levels.

Would protecting the water and the air bankrupt the industry? No. The report estimates that operating with a near-zero-impact environmental footprint would add about 7 percent, or $600,000, to the typical $8 million cost of a well in, say, Texas or North Dakota. That is affordable for a well that could produce millions of dollars in revenue over its lifetime.

The Obama administration has taken two modest steps this year. The Environmental Protection Agency will require drillers to reduce ground-level air pollutants and capture methane in storage trucks for later resale. But the rules apply only to new wells. The Interior Department has proposed stricter standards for wastewater storage that apply only to the public lands it controls.
272 2012-06-10 Bankruptcy lawyers moved to the top tier of corporate practice in 1978 when a federal statute allowed them to be paid top hourly fees, which courts had traditionally limited in bankruptcy proceedings. In recent years, legal fees in Chapter 11 reorganization cases have soared as deals have grown bigger and more complex.

Even in the economic downturn, bankruptcy lawyers have been shielded from the market and client pressures that have forced lawyers in other specialties to cut their fees. Federal law gives payment of lawyers’ fees priority over debt in a bankruptcy; the law firm handling the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy received $399 million through February, public records show.

Reports of very high fees in cases where employees lost jobs and creditors received pennies on the dollar have shaken public confidence, according to the Justice Department. To address this issue, a division of the department that oversees bankruptcy cases has proposed new rules for bankruptcy judges to use in approving lawyers’ fees.

The sensible proposals cover how judges should determine compensation for lawyers representing the debtor, creditors and others involved in Chapter 11 reorganizations of companies with $50 million or more in assets. They would make the opaque world of bankruptcies more transparent and make law firms more accountable.

But at a contentious meeting at the Justice Department last week, law firms with big bankruptcy practices made clear that they were not about to accept the new guidelines willingly. They contend that high fees are needed to attract top talent to bankruptcy practices, which have helped keep the American economy sturdy. And they claim that the proposed changes “threaten to undermine a linchpin of the domestic and international restructuring services that have developed in the United States.”

The proposals the lawyers find most upsetting would require them to provide data on what their firms charge in other specialties and submit budgets at the outset as a benchmark for any fee increases later in the process.

They insist that providing this kind of fee data means giving out “confidential client information.” Budgeting for their work, they say, is “virtually impossible,” though many firms do this routinely at clients’ request. What the lawyers want to keep secret is actually required in the bankruptcy law, but such disclosures have not been explicitly demanded by courts.
273 2012-06-10 “It’s throughout all the private schools here,” said DeAnsin Parker, a New York psychologist who treats many adolescents from affluent neighborhoods like the Upper East Side. “It’s not as if there is one school where this is the culture. This is the culture.”

Observed Gary Boggs, a special agent for the , “We’re seeing it all across the United States.”

The D.E.A. lists prescription stimulants like Adderall and Vyvanse (amphetamines) and Ritalin and Focalin (methylphenidates) as Class 2 controlled substances — the same as cocaine and morphine — because they rank among the most addictive substances that have a medical use. (By comparison, the long-abused anti-anxiety drug Valium is in the lower Class 4.) So they carry high legal risks, too, as few teenagers appreciate that merely giving a friend an Adderall or Vyvanse pill is the same as selling it and can be prosecuted as a felony.

While these medicines tend to calm people with A.D.H.D., those without the disorder find that just one pill can jolt them with the energy and focus to push through all-night homework binges and stay awake during exams afterward. “It’s like it does your work for you,” said William, a recent graduate of the Birch Wathen Lenox School on the Upper East Side of .

But abuse of prescription stimulants can lead to depression and mood swings (from sleep deprivation), heart irregularities and acute exhaustion or during withdrawal, doctors say. Little is known about the long-term effects of abuse of stimulants among the young. Drug counselors say that for some teenagers, the pills eventually become an entry to the abuse of painkillers and sleep aids.

“Once you break the seal on using pills, or any of that stuff, it’s not scary anymore — especially when you’re getting A’s,” said the boy who snorted Adderall in the parking lot. He spoke from the couch of his drug counselor, detailing how he later became addicted to the painkiller Percocet and eventually heroin.

Paul L. Hokemeyer, a family therapist at Caron Treatment Centers in Manhattan, said: “Children have prefrontal cortexes that are not fully developed, and we’re changing the chemistry of the brain. That’s what these drugs do. It’s one thing if you have a real deficiency — the medicine is really important to those people — but not if your deficiency is not getting into Brown.”

The number of prescriptions for A.D.H.D. medications dispensed for young people ages 10 to 19 has risen 26 percent since 2007, to almost 21 million yearly, according to IMS Health, a health care information company — a number that experts estimate corresponds to more than two million individuals. But there is no reliable research on how many high school students take stimulants as a study aid. Doctors and teenagers from more than 15 schools across the nation with high academic standards estimated that the portion of students who do so ranges from 15 percent to 40 percent.

“They’re the A students, sometimes the B students, who are trying to get good grades,” said one senior at Lower Merion High School in Ardmore, a suburb, who said he makes hundreds of dollars a week selling prescription drugs, usually priced at $5 to $20 per pill, to classmates as young as freshmen. “They’re the quote-unquote good kids, basically.”

The trend was driven home last month to Radulovic, a social worker in , Calif. Within a few days, she said, an 11th grader, a ninth grader and an eighth grader asked for prescriptions for Adderall solely for better grades. From one girl, she recalled, it was not quite a request.

“If you don’t give me the prescription,” Ms. Radulovic said the girl told her, “I’ll just get it from kids at school.”

Madeleine surveyed her schedule of five , field hockey and several other extracurricular activities and knew she could not handle it all. The first physics test of the year — inclines, friction, drag — loomed ominously over her college prospects. A star senior at her Roman Catholic school in Bethesda, Md., Madeleine knew a friend whose grades had gone from B’s to A’s after being prescribed Ritalin, so she asked her for a pill.

She got a 95. Thereafter, Madeleine recalled, she got Adderall and Vyvanse capsules the rest of the year from various classmates — not in exchange for money, she said, but for tutoring them in calculus or proofreading their English papers.

“Can I get a drink of water?” Madeleine said she would ask the teacher in one class, before excusing herself and heading to the water fountain. Making sure no one was watching, she would remove a 40-milligram Vyvanse capsule from her purse and swallow it. After 30 minutes, the buzz began, she said: laser focus, instant recall and the fortitude to crush any test in her path.

“People would have never looked at me and thought I used drugs like that — I wasn’t that kid,” said Madeleine, who has just completed her freshman year at an Ivy League college and continues to use stimulants occasionally. “It wasn’t that hard of a decision. Do I want only four hours of sleep and be a mess, and then underperform on the test and then in field hockey? Or make the teachers happy and the coach happy and get good grades, get into a good college and make my parents happy?”

Madeleine estimated that one-third of her classmates at her small school, most of whom she knew well, used stimulants without a prescription to boost their scholastic performance. Many students across the United States made similar estimates for their schools, all of them emphasizing that the drugs were used not to get high, but mostly by conscientious students to work harder and meet ever-rising academic expectations.

These estimates can be neither confirmed nor refuted because little data captures this specific type of drug misuse. A respected annual survey financed by the National Institute on Drug Abuse, “Monitoring the Future,” reports that abuse of prescription amphetamines by 10th and 12th graders nationally has actually dipped from the 1990s and is remaining relatively steady at about 10 percent.

However, some experts note that the survey does not focus on the demographic where they believe such abuse is rising steadily — students at high-pressure high schools — and also that many teenagers barely know that what they often call “study drugs” are in fact illegal amphetamines.

“Isn’t it just like a vitamin?” asked one high school junior from Eastchester, a suburb of New York.

Liz Jorgensen, a licensed addiction specialist who runs Insight Counseling in Ridgefield, Conn., said her small center had treated “at least 50 or 60” high school students from southern this school year alone who had abused prescription stimulants for academics. Ms. Jorgensen said some of those teenagers landed in rehab directly from the stimulants or, more often, grew comfortable with prescription drugs in general and began abusing prescription painkillers like OxyContin.

A spokesman for Shire, which manufactures Vyvanse and Adderall’s extended-release capsules, said studies had shown no link between prescribed use of those drugs and later abuse.

Dr. Jeff Jonas, Shire’s senior vice president for research and development, said that the company was greatly concerned about the misuse of its stimulants but that the rate was very small. “I’m not aware of any systematic data that suggests there’s a widespread problem,” he said. “You can always find people who testify that it happens.”

Students who sell prescription stimulants to their classmates focus on their burdens and insecurities. One girl who sells to fellow students at Long Beach High School on said: “These kids would get in trouble if they don’t do well in school. When people take tests, it’s immediately, ‘Who am I getting Adderall from?’ They’re always looking for it.”

Every school identified in this article was contacted regarding statements by its students and stimulant abuse in general. Those that responded generally said that they were concerned about some teenagers turning to these drugs, but that their numbers were far smaller than the students said.

David Weiss, superintendent of Long Beach Public Schools, said the survey his district used to gauge student drug use asked about only prescription medications in general, not stimulants specifically.

“It has not been a surface issue for us — we’re much more conscious of alcohol or other drug use,” Mr. Weiss said in a telephone interview. “We haven’t had word that it’s a widespread issue.”

Douglas Young, a spokesman for the Lower Merion School District outside Philadelphia, said prescription stimulant abuse was covered in various student-wellness initiatives as well as in the 10th-grade health curriculum. Mr. Young expressed frustration that many parents seemed oblivious to the problem.

“It’s time for a serious wake-up call,” Mr. Young said. “Straight A’s and high SAT scores look great on paper, but they aren’t reflective measures of a student’s health and well-being. We need to better understand the pressures and temptations, and ultimately we need to embrace new definitions of student success. For many families and communities, that’s simply not happening.”

During an interview in March, the dealer at Lower Merion High reached into his pocket and pulled out the container for his daily stash of the prescription stimulants Concerta and Focalin: a hollowed-out bullet. Unlike his other products — and heroin, which come from higher-level dealers — his amphetamines came from a more trusted, and trusting, source, he said.

“I lie to my psychiatrist — I expressed feelings I didn’t really have, knowing the consequences of it,” he said, standing in a park a few miles from the high school. “I tell the doctor, ‘I find myself very distracted, and I feel this really deep pain inside, like I’m anxious all the time,’ or something like that.”

He coughed out a chuckle and added proudly, “Generally, if you keep playing the angsty-teen role, you’ll get something good.”

Christine, a junior sitting nearby, said she followed the well-known lines to get her drugs directly and legally, a script for scripts. “I’m not able to focus on schoolwork,” she said in a mockingly anxious voice. “I’m constantly looking out the window.” Although she often uses the drugs herself, snorting them for a faster and more intense effect, she said she preferred to save them for when her customers crave them most.

“Right before everybody took the PSATs, a bunch of kids went to the bathroom to snort their Addies,” she said.

This is one of the more vexing problems with stimulants in high schools, experts said — the drugs enter the schools via students who get them legally, if not legitimately.

Older A.D.H.D. drugs required low doses every few hours, and schools, not wanting students to carry the drugs themselves, had the school nurse hold and dispense the pills. Newer long-lasting versions like Adderall XR and Vyvanse allow parents to give children a single dose in the morning, often unaware that the pills can go down a pants pocket as easily as the throat. Some students said they took their pills only during the week and gave their weekend pills to friends.

The mother of one high school freshman in Westchester County said she would open the kitchen cabinet every morning and watch her son take his prescribed dose of Ritalin. She noticed one day that the capsule was strangely airy and held it up to the light. It was empty.

“There were a few times we were short in the month, and I couldn’t understand why,” recalled the woman, whose son was in eighth grade at the time. “It never dawned on me until I found those empty capsules, and then I started discovering the little packets of powder. He was selling it to other kids.”

A number of teenagers interviewed laughed at the ease with which they got some doctors to write prescriptions for A.D.H.D. The disorder’s definition requires inattentiveness, or impulse control to present “clinically significant impairment” in at least two settings (school and home, for example), according to the . Crucially, some of this impairment must have been in evidence by age 7; a proper diagnosis for a teenager claiming to have A.D.H.D., several doctors said, requires interviewing parents, teachers and others to confirm that the problems existed long before.

Many youngsters with prescriptions said their doctors merely listened to their stories and took out their prescription pads. Dr. Hilda R. Roque, a primary-care physician in West New York, N.J., said she never prescribed A.D.H.D. medicine but knew many doctors who did. She said many parents could push as hard for prescriptions as their children did, telling her: “My child is not doing well in school. I understand there are meds he can take to make him smarter.”

“To get a prescription for Adderall was the Golden Ticket — it really was,” said William, the recent graduate of Birch Wathen in Manhattan.

A high school senior in Connecticut who has used his friend’s Adderall for school said: “These are academic . But usually, parents don’t get the steroids for you.”

As with the steroids taken by athletes, the downside of prescription stimulants appears after they provide the desired short-term competitive benefits. This was the case with a recent graduate of McLean High School in , one of the top public schools in the area.

Late in his sophomore year, the boy wanted some help to raise his B average — far from what top colleges expected, especially from a McLean student. So he told his psychologist what she needed to hear for a diagnosis of A.D.H.D. — even gazing out the window during the appointment for effect — and was soon getting 30 pills of Adderall every month, 10 milligrams each. They worked. He focused late into the night studying, concentrated better during exams and got an A-minus average for his junior year.

“I wanted to do everything I could to get into the quote-unquote right school,” he recalled recently.

As senior year began, when another round of SATs and one last set of good grades could put him over the top, the boy said he still had trouble concentrating. The doctor prescribed 30 milligrams a day. When college applications hit, he bought extra pills for $5 apiece from a girl in French class who had fooled her psychiatrist, too, and began taking several on some days.

The boy said that as his A-minus average continued through senior year, no one suspected that “a kid who went to Bible camp” and had so improved his grades could be abusing drugs. By the time he was accepted and had enrolled at a good but not great college, he was up to 300 milligrams a day — constantly taking more to stave off the inevitable crash.

One night, after he had taken about 400 milligrams, his heart started beating wildly. He began hallucinating and then convulsing. He was rushed to the emergency room and wound up spending seven months at a drug rehabilitation center.

To his surprise, two of 20 fellow patients there had also landed in rehab solely from abusing stimulants in high school.

“No one seems to think that it’s a real thing — adults on the outside looking in,” the boy said. “The other kids in rehab thought we weren’t addicts because Adderall wasn’t a real drug. It’s so underestimated.”

The Sklar family lives near the top of a daunting hill in Ardsley, a comfortable suburb north of New York City. Ardsley High School sends dozens of graduates every year to Ivy League-caliber colleges. When students there use , they all know that its founder, , once walked the same halls.

At their kitchen table after school last month, Dodi Sklar listened as her ninth-grade son, Jonathan, described how some classmates already abused stimulants — long before SATs and college applications. An accomplished student who said he would never join them, Jonathan described the ease with which he could.

“There’s no way you’d notice — that’s why so many kids are doing it,” he told his mother. “I could say I’m going for a run, call someone I know who does it, get some pills from them, take them, come home and work. Just do it. You’d be just glad that I was studying hard.”

His mother sighed. “As a parent you worry about driving, you worry about drinking, you worry about all kinds of health and mental issues, social issues,” she said. “Now I have to worry about this, too? Really? This shouldn’t be what they need to do to get where they want to.”

Asked if the improper use of stimulants was cheating, students were split. Some considered that the extra studying hours and the heightened focus during exams amounted to an unfair advantage. Many countered that the drugs “don’t give you the answers” and defended their use as a personal choice for test preparation, akin to tutoring.

One consensus was clear: users were becoming more common, they said, and some students who would rather not take the drugs would be compelled to join them because of the competition over class rank and colleges’ interest.

A current law student in Manhattan, who said he dealt Adderall regularly while at his high school in , Fla., said that insecurity was a main part of his sales pitch: that those students “would feel at a huge disadvantage,” he said.

William, the recent Birch Wathen graduate, said prescription stimulants became a point of contention when a girl with otherwise middling grades suddenly improved her SAT score.

“There was an uproar among kids — some people were really proud of her, and some kids were really jealous and mad,” he recalled. “I don’t remember if she had a prescription, but she definitely took more than was prescribed. People would say, ‘You’re so smart,’ and she’d say, ‘It wasn’t all me.’ ”

One sophomore at Harvard-Westlake School in Studio City, Calif., is unsure what his future holds. Enrolled at one of the top high schools on the West Coast, he said he tried a friend’s Adderall this semester but disliked the sensation of his heart beating rapidly for hours. He vowed never to do it again.

But as he watches upperclassmen regularly abuse stimulants as they compete for top college slots, he is not quite sure.

“Junior and senior year is a whole new ballgame,” the boy said. “I promised myself I wouldn’t take it, but that can easily, easily change. I can be convinced.”
274 2012-06-10 In each of those Opens at Olympic, a golf god lost to a less respected rival: twice in an 18-hole playoff (Hogan to the virtual unknown Jack Fleck in 1955, Palmer to the underappreciated Billy Casper in 1966) and twice by one stroke over 72 holes (Watson to the journeyman Scott Simpson in 1987, Stewart to the underrated Lee Janzen in 1998).

If that pattern continues, look for one of golf’s current marquee names — Tiger Woods, Rory McIlroy, Luke Donald, Phil Mickelson or Bubba Watson — to cruise along in next Sunday’s final round until somebody seldom (or never) heard of makes a few birdie putts to win over four rounds or to force an 18-hole playoff.

Open history at Olympic is proof of one of golf’s cruelest rules: never assume.

In 1955, when Hogan walked off the 72nd green with a 287 score, he thought he had won his record fifth Open. Handing his ball to Joe Dey, the executive director of the United States Golf Association, he said, “This is for Golf House,” the U.S.G.A. museum. On NBC, the analyst Gene Sarazen, a two-time Open winner, went off the air hailing the 43-year-old Hogan as the champion.

But in those years before leaders were in the final pairings, the 1955 Open was not over. “Fleck still has a chance,” Hogan was told.

Not many people knew Jack Fleck, an obscure pro from Davenport, Iowa, but Hogan did. Fleck had stopped by the Hogan company’s plant in Fort Worth to get a set of the new Hogan irons, which Hogan gave him. Hogan even took two new Hogan wedges to Olympic for Fleck. And as Hogan, alerted to Fleck’s opportunity to catch him, waited in the locker room, Fleck’s birdie on the 15th pulled him one stroke behind.

After pars on the 16th and 17th, Fleck lofted a 7-iron onto the 18th green and sank a 7-foot birdie putt to create a playoff the next day. Through 12 holes, Fleck was three ahead, then Hogan birdied 14 and 17, but on his tee shot at the 18th, his right foot slipped, his ball diving into the tangled left rough. Finally on the fairway in 4, he holed a 40-foot putt for a double-bogey 6 and 72. Fleck two-putted for 69. Hogan never won a fifth Open.

Palmer, whose final-round 65 had won the 1960 Open at Cherry Hills near Denver, assumed that he was about to win his second Open in 1966, after four Masters and two British Open titles. With nine holes to go in the fourth round at Olympic, he had a seven-stroke lead.

“I let my attention wander from the realities — winning the tournament — to pursuing another goal: beating the U.S. Open record of 276 shot by Ben Hogan in 1948,” he later wrote in his autobiography, “Go for Broke!” “I already had set the British Open record several years earlier and I was beguiled by the thought of holding the U.S. and British Open records.”

At the 10th, Palmer lost a stroke. At the 13th, he lost another. When he bogeyed the 15th while Casper, who had won the 1959 Open at Winged Foot, birdied, his lead was three. At the 16th, Palmer hooked his drive into the rough, chopped an unwise 3-iron 75 yards in the rough and scrambled to a bogey as Casper birdied. And when Palmer bogeyed the 17th, they were tied.

In the next day’s playoff, Casper shot 69. Palmer shot 73, his third Open playoff loss. He never won another major.

In the 1987 Open, Watson had a one-stroke lead with five holes to play, but Simpson birdied the 14th, birdied the 15th with a 30-foot putt and birdied the 16th with a 15-foot putt for a one-stroke lead. He preserved it at the 17th with a long bunker shot to 6 feet to save par. At the 18th, Watson’s wedge spun back to the front of the uphill green. His 45-foot birdie putt to tie stopped inches short.

“It was probably a 9-iron,” Watson said of his approach.

Eleven years later at Olympic, Stewart had a one-stroke lead in the final round when his tee shot on the 12th hole stopped in a sand-filled divot. Like Watson, he thought of using a 9-iron, but chose a pitching wedge that missed the green. The bogey dropped him into a tie with Janzen, who had edged him in the 1993 Open at Baltusrol. Stewart faded to a 74 as Janzen shot 68 to win.

Stewart rebounded the next year, winning the Open at Pinehurst No. 2 with a dramatic 15-foot putt on the 72nd green. But four months later, sadly, he was dead.

Now the Open returns to Olympic, where a golf god has always finished second to somebody who emerged from all those cypress trees.
275 2012-06-10 “Most people would have called it a day,” Martina Navratilova, one of the most accomplished players ever, said earlier in the week. “She stayed with it. I wouldn’t have thought she was capable of doing that two, three years ago. Great for the sport, I think, and good for her.

“She’s a superstar, and it’s always good if a superstar is on top.”

On Monday, Sharapova will still be the reigning French Open champion, will still remember that tournament officials announced her as runner-up at the championship ceremony, will still hear the Russian national anthem that played once they got that whole who-won-thing sorted out. She will also ascend to the No. 1 ranking, and for those who disagreed with Navratilova’s assessment of Sharapova’s superstar status, it will be more difficult to argue than before.

When it ended, after the tears were shed and the babies kissed, Sharapova ducked into a tunnel. She called her mother, a quiet, understated influence, who told her to enjoy a few days off. She called her father, Yuri, a loud and prominent influence and often not in a positive light. He was riding his bike. “Great job,” she said he told her. “Talk to you later.”

Sharapova laughed at this, same as she laughed throughout this tournament. She seemed relaxed here, comfortable, at ease. She joked about the perception of her as a diva (much fancy makeup, none of the mental kind), about her failed attempt to learn the local language, about how she loved to people-watch.

Imagine that: the player who spent years with all eyes on her was actually watching back.

If this all seemed strange, so not like Sharapova, she insisted she had changed. She said she treated herself before the final with room service and a massage. She praised Coach Thomas Hogstedt, the kind of guy, she said, who locked himself in rooms and studied tennis for days on end, who insisted she could return to No. 1.

This showed in the way Sharapova played throughout the fortnight. Her first six matches lasted all of  eight and a half hours.

“I had so many outs in my career,” Sharapova said. “I could have said, ‘I don’t need this. I have money; I have fame; I have victories; I have Grand Slams.’ But when your love for something is bigger than all those things, you continue to get up in the morning when it’s freezing outside, when it can be the most difficult day, when nothing is working, when you feel like belief isn’t there form the outside world, and you seem so small.

“You can achieve great things when you don’t listen.”

On Friday, Navratilova said it would take “a monumental effort” for Errani to contend. The mismatch, as Navratilova saw it, would come on Errani’s serve, her weakest shot, against Sharapova’s service return, her best one.

Midway through the second set, Sharapova had won 70 percent of the points against Errani’s second serve, just as Navratilova had predicted. Sharapova was then more likely to break serve than to hold it, and thus the odds titled even more heavily in her favor.

Sharapova buried Errani with those returns, with ground strokes and grunts, the former hard and flat and angled, the latter long and loud. Before Errani blinked, Sharapova led, 4-0. For Errani, who won the women’s doubles title Friday, who beat a top 10 player for the first time Tuesday and the second time Thursday, her best tournament ended there.

“I start very bad,” Errani said, and that worked as a proper summary.

Sharapova, on the other hand, required a more lengthy explanation, of her emergence and her operation and her comeback, all by the age of 25. Soon, Wimbledon and her favorite surface and the tournament that started it all.

“It’s not over yet,” she said, and then she smiled, a sly smile and a knowing one.
276 2012-06-10 Ms. Fleiss, Ms. Roney and Ms. Gugnani all have husbands with high-powered jobs, so there are no stay-at-home fathers to take charge of their households. On the other hand, financial resources for child care are ample.

Yet much of the investment world, heavily dominated by men, remains skeptical about a woman’s ability to combine running a fast-growing tech start-up and motherhood, Ms. Gugnani says. She raised $3 million from investors before becoming pregnant.

“All of the women I know who went to raise money did it when they didn’t have kids,” she says. “There is total discrimination in the start-up world against women who are pregnant.”

Making pregnancy and motherhood a focal point of the investment process is an outdated way of thinking, she adds.

Female entrepreneurs are less numerous and raise less money than their male counterparts. Women make up 10 percent of the founders at high-growth tech companies, “and they raise 70 percent less money than men do because of their lack of access to capital,” says Lesa Mitchell of the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, where she is vice president for initiatives on advancing innovation.

Ms. Roney says venture capitalists will assert that a female entrepreneur’s pregnancy and motherhood aren’t factors in deciding whether to invest in a firm — that it’s all about good ideas and the management team. “But I can pretty much guarantee you, behind closed doors it is a factor,” she says.

That is why, Ms. Roney says, “in those first moments of having a business and having a baby, the baby was a complete and total secret.”

At a start-up, which lacks much corporate infrastructure, founders typically do the jobs of at least five people. “The expectation of the devotion of your time, particularly if you are a founder, is that you should be doing this and nothing else — if you aren’t, you are not giving everything you have to the company,” Ms. Roney explains.

Ms. Fleiss was able to secure $15 million in Series B venture funding last year, shortly before she gave birth. If she had been pregnant as she pitched the company in the first round of financing, when it was still an unproved entity, she says she would have talked to mentors and advisers about how to present that fact.

Investors do need a full picture of a founder’s other life commitments, Ms. Fleiss contends.

“I don’t agree that men should be considered in the same exact context as women around aspects of raising a family,” she says. Certain factors like breast-feeding and body recovery require a women to take more time off, she notes. Ms. Fleiss took 10 weeks of maternity leave, she says, while her husband, Andrew M. P. Fleiss, a principal at the private equity firm Liberty Partners in Manhattan, took a week off.

Aileen Lee, a partner at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, the venture capital firm in Menlo Park, Calif., put it this way: “If someone was having some surgery that was going to put them out for three months, it’s something you should consider, with a man or a woman. What is the impact of having the C.E.O. or visionary out for three months?”

Ms. Lee stresses that pregnancy is not a red flag for her, and that she backs companies for the long run. Of her 11 portfolio companies, three are run by women with children, including Rent the Runway, Ms. Fleiss’s company.

LAST year, Paige Craig, an angel investor in 61 tech companies, said on the Business Insider site that “I’m probably going to get myself in a bit of trouble here” before he stated that “a pregnant founder/C.E.O. is going to fail her company.” He wrote the post after deciding to invest in a crowdsourced financing company called ProFounder, started in 2009. One of the founders, Jessica Jackley, he discovered before making his decision, was pregnant with twins.

Mr. Craig says he was confident in Ms. Jackley and wrote the post not as a rallying cry against investing in women with children, but to raise the question: “So I have this bias, let me dig in, and is it justified?”

If investors meet a male founder of a company, they don’t care whether he has two or three children because they assume that his wife will take care of them, Mr. Craig says. “But with a female founder,” he adds, “it’s a whole different story.”

The issue of children, it seems, plays differently for male founders.

Neil Blumenthal, 31, co-founder of Warby Parker, an eyewear seller, says his family responsibilities never came up with investors, though his wife, Rachel, is also an entrepreneur and was pregnant at the time he and his co-founders sought investments. Their son, Griffin, is now 14 months old.

He says his wife, who runs Rachel Leigh, a jewelry company, deals with more of the child care — about a 60-40 split — because his company is younger and in a more intense stage of growth.

David Liu is C.E.O. of the XO Group, which he founded with his wife, Ms. Roney. He says that they “co-parent,” but that the division of labor sometimes means that he travels more for work so that Ms. Roney can be at home.

Like others, Mr. Liu sees a double standard in the start-up investment world. “I think there are a lot of challenges for women because V.C.’s are thinking: ‘Uh-oh. When are those women going to get pregnant? When are they going to get distracted?’ I think that kind of stuff is pervasive, and it’s unfortunate.”

But some investors say they truly don’t factor motherhood into the equation. “Whether a female founder is pregnant, has children or is planning to have children is not a concern of mine, and frankly none of my business,” said Brad Feld, who has done early-stage investing for 20 years and is managing director of the Foundry Group, an investment firm based in Boulder, Colo.

Mr. Feld says those issues have never been discussed at the firm. Of the 43 companies in which it has invested, however, only two were started by women, one of whom has children.

Ms. Fleiss, Ms. Roney and Ms. Gugnani are hardly alone in finding ways to start companies while caring for young children.

Jessica Herrin, 39, has two daughters and is the founder and chief executive of Stella & Dot, a social sales company based in San Francisco that generates more than $100 million in revenue a year. She says she “didn’t want to be on some venture capital firm’s timeline about how fast and when I should grow my company when I had two young kids and was still nursing.”

Instead, she approached a few individual investors who had backed her previous company, WeddingChannel.com, and raised $350,000. (WeddingChannel was acquired by the XO Group in 2006.)

Before she accepted a check, Ms. Herrin says, she told Doug Mackenzie, her investor at Radar Partners: “This company is going to have an initial slower pace of growth than it otherwise would because I want to go to swim class with my daughter on Friday afternoon.”

Alexandra Wilkis Wilson, 35, is a co-founder of the Gilt Groupe, the shopping Web site. In 2010, two and half years after the company started, Ms. Wilson had her first child, a son. Her co-founder, Alexis Maybank, 37, has two children, one born in February this year and the other in September 2010.

Ms. Wilson, who is also head of national sales for the Gilt City site, says that it’s possible to have children and run a start-up, but that timing is everything. “Back in 2007, when we had eight employees, it would have been hard to balance with the pace I was working.” Now, the company has 900 employees, and it’s possible to delegate more of her responsibilities, she says.

These women say it takes a village — a community that includes nannies, in-laws, friends, supportive spouses and baby sitters — to make it all work. Living within walking distance of the office also helps. (Ms. Fleiss often goes home for quick visits during the day.)

And there is no sleeping in. Ms. Herrin’s day starts between 4 and 5 a.m. She works until 6:30 a.m., goes for a run and returns home to have breakfast with her daughters and to see them off to school. From 9 a.m. to 6 p.m., it’s a mixture of meetings, Skype sessions and strategizing. She is home by 6:30 p.m. to have dinner with her family.

Ms. Herrin says her husband, Chad, vice president of a software company, is a big help. He makes breakfast and often walks the girls to school. “He’s usually plowed through the older one’s homework by the time I get home,” she says. And he picks up each daughter from school at least once a week and goes to watch them at ballet class.

MS. FLEISS is up at 6:30 a.m. to feed Daniella. Then she goes for a run. “I run faster now that I have less time and try to cram in the same mileage,” she says. She gets to the office about 9 a.m. for meetings. Later in the morning, her nanny brings Daniella to the office for a quick visit. Meetings and calls fill the rest of the day. (This is between pumping breast milk every three hours.)

In the evenings, Ms. Fleiss often has a speaking engagement or a work-related event. By 8 p.m. she is home to feed Daniella, have dinner with her husband, go through e-mail and watch some reality TV.

Ms. Fleiss’s husband took care of Daniella for three days while she was in Los Angeles for work. They alternate doing the morning feeding. At night, he often puts the baby to sleep while his wife reads and replies to e-mail.

Outside help is essential. Ms. Roney says: “I barely have time to put on lip gloss. Luckily my assistant fills my work closet with makeup and dresses so I can attempt to look presentable for the potential meetings and TV segments I may have that day.”

To be sure, juggling at this intensity is not for the faint of heart. “I can’t say I would recommend this life for a new mom,” Ms. Herrin said. Keep in mind, she says, that “having a newborn is such a precious time that goes by so fast.”

Looking ahead, investors may find themselves at a disadvantage if they don’t invest in companies run by women, including those with children. That’s because “women are going to be a huge force in developing Web and mobile companies,” says Ms. Lee at Kleiner Perkins.

Or as Ms. Roney put it, “Women are going to come up with the best ideas for women, who are driving our economy.”
277 2012-06-10 With his twinkling blue eyes, aquiline nose and dimpled smile, Mr. Lochte, 27, is being groomed to be a breakout Olympic superstar, with millions in corporate sponsorships to match his athletic accomplishments. He is already featured in ad campaigns for Gatorade, Gillette and Nissan. A fitness DVD is also forthcoming.

NBC, which will broadcast the London Games, has referred to Mr. Lochte as “arguably the face” of the American team on its Olympic Talk blog.

Calling him a sex symbol is hardly a stretch. There he is on the cover of this month’s Vogue, arms linked with his fellow Olympic hopefuls Hope Solo, a soccer player, and Serena Williams, the tennis star. Inside, he does his best Blue Steel look next to supermodel Karlie Kloss (she in a Haider Ackermann evening gown, he in a Speedo), a pose that seems to come as naturally to him as his signature backstroke. And Men’s Health recently ranked him No. 1 on its list of best summer bodies.

“We always sort of internally refer to him as the rock star of the swimming community,” said Katie Malone, the director of marketing at Speedo, which has sponsored him since 2006 and has him under contract through 2016. Ms. Malone added that Mr. Lochte was not typical of the sport’s hive-minded athletes, who often do little but train. “If someone’s zigging left, he’s zagging right,” she said. “He wants to stand out.”

RYAN LOCHTE won four medals at the 2008 Games in Beijing, two gold and two bronze, and set a world record in the 200-meter backstroke. But it was Mr. Phelps, with an unprecedented eight gold medals, who basked in the post-Olympics limelight, hitting the talk show circuit, enjoying a slew of lucrative endorsements and hosting “Saturday Night Live.”

Mr. Phelps, with 16 medals to date, needs just three more Olympic medals to have the most in the history of the Summer Olympics. And yet Mr. Lochte is emerging as the bigger story, marketing experts say. He has the golden-boy looks, the regular-dude demeanor. He even has a catchphrase: the exhortation “jeah!” — adopted from the rapper Young Jeezy and pronounced like “yeah,” but, in Mr. Lochte’s case, with a surfer boy slope.

“We’re a little Phelps’d out,” said Bob Dorfman, the executive creative director of Baker Street Advertising and author of the Sports Marketers’ Scouting Report. As a brand, Mr. Lochte’s appeal is “through the roof,” he added. “He has potential for winning golds, and then just the fact that he’s so damn good-looking. If he can’t beat Michael Phelps in anything else, he can beat him in that category.”

Mr. Lochte has also taken care to broaden his image, making it no secret that he wants to move beyond his sport. “I don’t want to be stuck in the swimming world,” he said. “I don’t just eat, swim, sleep — I don’t do that. There’s so much more to me than swimming.” Away from the pool deck, he added, “I hate talking about swimming.” He prefers playing basketball, or practicing his terrible golf game, or drawing surreal nature images.

His style has already set him apart. Like his idol Lil Wayne, he has a hip-hop and skater-inflected look, with flashy jewelry and swaggy high-tops. He has worn diamond grillz over his teeth on the winner’s podium, and designed a pair of emerald rhinestone-encrusted sneakers with Speedo. “He wanted green, he wanted bling,” said Ms. Malone of Speedo, which sells a flip-flop version of the sneaker for $24.99. “He likes to make a statement when he walks onto that pool deck.” Even his swim briefs are neon.

Mr. Lochte’s dream is to eventually become a clothing designer. “I want to be different, and fashion gives me that outlet to do that,” he said, lounging on a couch after a practice in loose basketball shorts, a T-shirt that read “Google Me” and black Dolce & Gabbana slippers. For public events, he steps it up: Tommy Hilfiger and Ralph Lauren have dressed him, and he was signed by Ford Models.

His nearby townhouse — which he shares with Ben Hesen, a blond swimmer who often functions as his stand-in for commercials; his younger brother, Devon Lochte, a college student; and Carter, his Doberman — could be called bland bachelor pad, with boxes of Gatorade stacked on the pool table.

But he does have a room-size closet.

“Ho, I think I have about, a total of 130 pairs of shoes,” Mr. Lochte said, warming to the subject. “So you can say I like shoes.” (“Ho” is another Lochte-ism, kind of like the inverse of Homer Simpson’s “D’oh!”) For the Olympic trials this month, he plans to sport high tops with star-spangled wings, like an all-American Hermes. “Don’t duplicate!!” he wrote, posting a picture of them on Twitter.

And he’s already considering his London wardrobe. Having to stick to the official Olympic team uniform designed by Ralph Lauren “stinks,” he said, “because I really want to wear my shoes.” He plans to accessorize with diamond bracelets and some new grillz: “Maybe like red, white, blue — a flag, so when I smile, it’s like, pshoosh!” he said, imitating the sound of a firecracker.

His fashion credentials got a huge boost his month when he became the fourth man to grace Vogue’s cover, in a spread photographed by Annie Leibovitz. Of the cover boys, “I’m the only one who had two girls,” he boasted playfully, adding that the response to his chest-baring image has been “insane.”

“Everyone just started blowing my phone up,” he said. “They’re still doing it, on Twitter, on Facebook.” And his TV spots are in heavy rotation on ESPN, MTV and in prime time. “I randomly see it come on and I’m like, ‘Damn, that’s tight.’ ”

FOR many athletes, this kind of attention may be a distraction. And with a hard-charging business manager, Erika Wright, recently hired to expand his marketability (the fitness DVD was her idea), Mr. Lochte has seen his downtime all but evaporate as he juggles the demands of training with his professional responsibilities outside the pool. It adds up to some growing pains.

“I’m really sick of this place,” he said of Gainesville, as he cut through the University of Florida campus, where he graduated in 2007 with a degree in sports management.

He’d taken a girl out on the town for drinks the night before. “I kind of just let her go and I did my own thing,” he said. That, too, has become difficult: fans ask him to lift his shirt, wanting photos with his abs. By his own admission, he goes on a lot of bad dates. “I’m over the whole college scene,” he said. “The only reason I stay is because I have the best coach in the world. He knows how to motivate me.”

His longtime coach, Gregg Troy, said the secret to Mr. Lochte is to set him loose. “It impacts his performance at practice when we don’t get a little free time from the sport,” he said. He has prescribed a night out, Mr. Lochte reported gleefully, and doesn’t ask too many questions about extracurriculars like surfing and skateboarding, though he drew the line at sky diving. Mr. Lochte will always find a way to make his coach sweat: he once sustained an injury at home, break-dancing.

He has been a bombastic goofball since childhood, when his mom and dad, Ileana and Steve, were his first swim coaches. Now divorced, they still live nearby, in Daytona Beach, and the bro-iness of being the middle son of a large sports clan (two older sisters and two younger brothers, all but one swimmers) surfaces often. At home, Mr. Lochte can’t even be bothered to get off the couch to summon his roommate. Instead, he fired up a remote control car “and I drove it with a piece of paper that said, ‘Hey, c’mere,’ ” he said with a sideways grin.

But he’s also had a competitive streak since he was at least 3, when he remembers orchestrating milk chugging contests with his dad over the breakfast table. He wants to move to Los Angeles after the Olympics, though he still expects to compete, commuting to Gainesville to train.

Mr. Phelps, on the other hand, who at 26 is a year younger than Mr. Lochte, has said this Olympics will likely be his last. He’s a Jeezy fan too: “jeah” was something he and Mr. Lochte used to text each other, when they became buddies after the 2004 Olympic trials, before Mr. Phelps became an athletic paragon.

“My hat is off to him, because he had to deal with so much,” Mr. Lochte said. “I got a glimpse of it this year.”

It was just after another punishing early morning practice; Mr. Lochte had barely been able to climb the stairs to his coach’s office. Yesterday, his legs felt like Jell-O, he said. “Today they feel like cinder blocks.” There was time for breakfast, maybe a nap, before the afternoon training. And then another shoot for the cellphone commercial.

The first one, Mr. Lochte said, “wasn’t bad. It was actually easy. I kind of liked it. ”
278 2012-06-10 In a statement accompanying the audit, the fund said that the “core” of Spain’s financial sector is “well managed and appears resilient to further shocks.” But the report said that significant vulnerabilities remain, particularly among smaller banks and those with bigger exposure to the Spanish housing sector.

In the adverse scenario used in the stress tests, the Spanish economy would shrink 4.1 percent in 2012 and 1.6 percent in 2013. In that case, Spanish banks in aggregate would need to raise about 37 billion euros in cash to maintain their capital ratios at international standards.

But Spanish banks would likely need to raise far more than that to satisfy skittish international investors. The I.M.F. estimate did not include costs associated with restructuring, or losses on loans. Including such costs, the Spanish banking system would require as much as 100 billion euros, or about $125 billion, according to estimates by private firms.

“Going forward, it will be critical to communicate clearly the strategy for providing a credible backstop for capital shortfalls — a backstop that experience shows it is better to overestimate than underestimate,” Ms. Pazarbasioglu said.

The fund called on Spain to form a plan to recapitalize its banking sector and restructure its ailing banks immediately. It also recommended that Madrid introduce new instruments to resolve faltering financial institutions, and to bolster regulatory oversight.

“In recent years a gradual approach to taking corrective action allowed weak banks to continue to operate to the detriment of financial stability,” the report said. “The processes and the accountability framework for effective enforcement and bank resolution powers therefore need to be improved.”

The I.M.F. report comes as European countries — and leaders around the world — are pushing Spain to resolve its financial crisis. On Friday, President Obama urged European leaders to stabilize their financial sector and end their long-simmering sovereign debt crisis.

“These decisions are fundamentally in the hands of Europe’s leaders, and fortunately, they understand the seriousness of the situation and the urgent need to act,” Mr. Obama said at a news conference. “They’ve got to stabilize their financial system. And part of that is taking clear action as soon as possible to inject capital into weak banks.”

European finance ministers were expected to hold calls to hash out a bailout plan for Spain as soon as Saturday.

In a speech in New York on Friday, Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the I.M.F., warned that global economic conditions had again deteriorated, with growth and financial stability at stake. Tensions are “now threatening the very existence of the European project,” Ms. Lagarde said.

She said that “the agenda facing the financial system is not a case of mission accomplished; it is a case of mission yet to be accomplished,” calling for more supervision and regulation as well as decisive action.
279 2012-06-10 Last fall, Jason Van Anden, a computer developer from Brooklyn, made an app called I’m Getting Arrested for Occupy Wall Street protesters. Now, he has designed an app for people who see other people who may be about to get arrested.

The Stop and Frisk Watch app, which Mr. Van Anden designed for the New York Civil Liberties Union, is intended to be used by community groups documenting stop-and-frisk actions by the New York Police Department. It is being distributed free for Android devices only; an iPhone version is expected this summer.

The app’s basic purpose is to record video and send it directly to the civil liberties organization’s servers, which it does automatically once recording stops. The app then prompts the user to provide specific information about the episode, including the badge number of the police officers involved and whether they used force or threatening language during the stop. It is available in Spanish as well as English.

This is a tool designed with its potential to cause conflict in mind. The video can be started and stopped by shaking the phone, and a setting will lock the phone once the video is stopped.

There is also a “listen” function, which shows if there are other people using the app nearby. This was devised specifically for community groups that monitor police actions; it allows them to keep track of other activists. Steve Kohut, a resident of the Lower East Side who has been participating in police watches for years, described the app as a way to get more people involved in the monitoring. But he acknowledged the potential the app has to get people into trouble.

“It’s a tool like anything else; you can’t just grab it and run amok,” he said. “You have to be trained, because things can get out of hand.” He also cautioned people against trying to use the app if they themselves were being stopped and frisked.
280 2012-06-10 Two new cafes have sprung up on Walnut Street, near the New Jersey Transit rail station, close enough to serve trainbound commuters but appealing enough to tempt customers to settle in for a while.

Le Salbuen Cafe Market, a tiny, European-inspired establishment, opened first, in mid-May. It is run by John David Salierno and Christina Buenano Salierno, a couple who live in Bloomfield.

Le Salbuen, at 620 square feet, has indoor seating for about 20 and two outdoor tables. It is open for breakfast and lunch, with the lunch menu stretching into early dinner, until 7 p.m., Tuesday through Friday; a more extensive dinner is served on Saturdays until 11 p.m. The menu is eclectic; on a recent Thursday, a Cuban empanada ($5), organic frittata ($9) and vegan gumbo ($11) were listed on an outdoor chalkboard.

“We’re both bodybuilders, so we like to include healthy things,” Ms. Buenano Salierno said. They serve lattes and cappuccinos ($3 to $5), but also a carrot protein shake ($8).

Anthony Brinton, co-owner of the Red Eye Cafe, which opened across the street on May 26, said he hoped to avoid “the same old cookie-cutter cafe” in designing the 34-seat, 1,800-square-foot restaurant, which has subway tiles and vintage lighting. Mr. Brinton, 38, the former manager of Cafe Eclectic in Montclair, now closed, owns Red Eye with his twin brother, Matthew. The head chef is George Perez; they all live in town.

The offerings include a delicately spiced iced latte called the New Orleans Sludge ($3.75) and the Blue Velvet sandwich, which consists of roast beef with pickled blueberries and shallots, cream cheese and arugula on ciabatta ($8.95). Besides breakfast, lunch and coffee drinks, Red Eye serves brunch on Saturdays and Sundays and dinner nightly.

Business has been better than expected at both cafes, their owners said. “This is a sleepy little area, but people want to get out of the center of town,” Anthony Brinton said. “They enjoy the quiet.”
281 2012-06-10 Credit: Edward Linsmier for The New York Times
282 2012-06-10 The clearer-sounding FM broadcast band arrived for car radios in the 1950s, including an option in 1958 Lincolns. More consistent performance from the first fully transistorized in-dash units came early in the next decade. To the delight of music listeners, FM stereo became available as an option in many cars by the late 1960s.

MOBILE JUKEBOX Automakers realized that the holy grail of in-car entertainment would be the ability for drivers to play their own music collections on the road. In 1956, Chrysler tried to accommodate them with an in-car record player it called Highway Hi-Fi.

Developed by a research scientist from the laboratories of CBS, Highway Hi-Fi used a new ultra-microgroove format that provided 45 minutes of playing time per side from its small 16 2/3 r.p.m. record discs. Though Chrysler claimed skip-free performance, owners had mixed results.

A limited selection of music recordings, along with the contraption’s proprietary format that would not play on home equipment, doomed Highway Hi-Fi to failure.

For 1960, Chrysler replaced it with a new accessory record player, made by RCA Victor, that played up to a dozen standard 45 r.p.m. records. Working better in a parked car than a moving one, it was dropped by Chrysler after 1961.

GO TO THE TAPE Around 1960, radio D.J.’s began using tape cartridges to play recorded commercials. A self-taught inventor, Earl Muntz, saw the potential to sell tape cartridges containing music licensed from record labels. Muntz, who had created a used-car empire in California using his “Madman” advertising persona, also manufactured TVs and briefly built his own luxury convertible, the 1951-54 Muntz Jet.

The Muntz Stereo-Pak cartridge and in-car players appeared in 1962. The cartridge contained a continuous tape loop with two stereo audio programs, leading Muntz to call the format 4-track. William Lear, who helped develop the first successful car radio in the 1920s, called the Motorola, liked the Muntz cartridge but saw room for improvement. The Lear Stereo-8 or 8-track used the same ¼-inch tape as the Muntz cartridge but packed more playing time by dividing it into four stereo programs. While the Muntz system remained an aftermarket product, the Lear 8-track became the first factory-installed tape system, beginning with 1966 Fords.

A third magnetic tape cartridge format, introduced by Philips Electronics of the Netherlands, appeared in the mid-1960s, the Compact Cassette. The cassette’s two sides meant songs played without interruption.

By the mid-1970s, major improvements in sound quality, and a convenient auto-reverse playback function added to tape players, put the Compact Cassette on the road to finishing off the 8-track. At the end of the 1970s, Philips partnered with Sony to develop an optical storage medium, the compact disc, which appeared in 1982. CD players replaced cassette units in most cars by the mid-1990s. The 2010 Lexus SC 430 convertible was the last car to come with a factory-installed cassette player.

10-4, GOOD BUDDY Telematics services that appeared in the 1990s, like OnStar from G.M. and TeleAid from Mercedes-Benz, offered emergency calling, and today’s smartphones deliver social connectivity. Yet both functions first appeared in more primitive states in the 1970s with the introduction of optional factory-installed Citizen’s Band two-way radios. Even Mercedes-Benz offered a CB for a while, Mr. Patrone said.

The CB burst into the public consciousness with some help from C. W. McCall’s 1975 hit song “Convoy” and the 1977 Burt Reynolds film “Smokey and the Bandit.” Both romanticized the CB’s use for avoiding speed traps.

The CB option was offered in many cars into the early 1980s, including, of course, the Pontiac Firebird Trans Am, the model that Mr. Reynolds drove in “Smokey and the Bandit.”

BETTER VIBRATIONS With magnetic tape, carmakers jumped the hurdle of bringing quality music recordings into the car. Still, competing noises from the wind, engine and tires made it a challenge to wring good sound out of the playback equipment.

Mr. Patrone, on an assignment to Mercedes-Benz headquarters in Germany to get better-sounding radios for United States customers, recalled the pronouncement of a high-ranking German colleague that translated to, “Hi-fi in a car is impossible.”

Something needed to be done to reverse the trend of consumers turning to the aftermarket for better-sounding audio systems.

A Massachusetts Institute of Technology electrical engineering professor, Dr. Amar Bose, had won the hearts and ears of audiophiles with his home audio speakers in 1968. A decade later, his Framingham, Mass., company began to look at making in-vehicle sound “as good as in a home listening environment.”

G.M. was the first to accept a pitch from Bose to develop systems customized and acoustically tuned to each car’s interior. The 1983 Cadillac Seville and Eldorado, Buick Riviera and Oldsmobile Toronado introduced Bose components, the auto industry’s first custom-engineered, factory-installed premium sound systems, Bose says.

Mr. Patrone would use the Bose-equipped G.M. cars to make his case, and Mercedes-Benz offered a high-end Bose system in the 1991 S-Class.

THE NOT-SO-MAGIC TOUCH Central to infotainment functions in new cars is a central display screen. The idea, with more primitive technology, actually made its debut 26 years ago in a Buick.

The 1986 downsized Riviera introduced the Graphic Control Center, essentially a TV-like cathode ray tube screen with touch-control capability. The screen, which was also used in the two-seat Buick Reatta, consolidated controls for the stereo and climate control, along with a trip computer.

Panned by the press, it was gone by 1990, but the touch-screen concept was revived and today is nearly ubiquitous.
283 2012-06-10 Other advisers to Mr. McCain have scurried into obscurity. By contrast, Mr. Schmidt — television commentator and public relations executive, delivering speeches and wisdom on the politics of the day — has a higher profile than ever, and stands as evidence that there may be little cost to being associated with a losing campaign and a disastrous political misjudgment, as Mr. Schmidt now describes the Palin selection.

Mr. Schmidt, who walked the red carpet at the Washington and New York openings of HBO’s “Game Change,” has become a minor celebrity in nonpolitical circles: Mr. Harrelson, in an interview last week, described him as a “buddy” and recounted how he persuaded Mr. Schmidt to be his date to the White House Correspondents’ Association Dinner in April, and to the exclusive pre- and after-parties, no matter that the night happened to fall on Mr. Schmidt’s wedding anniversary.

“We went everywhere together,” Mr. Harrelson said. “We would be at a party, and people would say to me, ‘You know the guy you played is over there.’ And I was like ‘Yeah, I know. I came with him.’ At this point, I feel quite fond of him.”

Mr. Schmidt is the vice chairman for public affairs of one of the world’s biggest public relations firms, Edelman. He is a regular commentator on MSNBC, which has installed a remote camera in his sprawling rustic home. He is quoted on TV and in newspapers, including The New York Times.

Mr. Schmidt even had lunch in the White House mess with David Plouffe, President Obama’s senior adviser who raves about his politics skills, and had his photograph taken with the president.

“If the Republican Party in 2012 thought more like Steve Schmidt, that would make our job more difficult,” said Mr. Plouffe, who managed Mr. Obama’s 2008 campaign.

That evolution has been viewed with disdain by Ms. Palin’s associates, who see in Mr. Schmidt the maneuverings of an insider trying to advance his interests at the expense of a former client. “Schmidt has establishment fever,” said John P. Coale, a friend and adviser to Ms. Palin. “The game was to ingratiate himself with the establishment. And what better way to do it than to tear down Sarah Palin?”

Mr. Coale suggested that Mr. Schmidt had hurt himself should he want to return to political consulting. “He wasn’t loyal,” he said. “When you get down to writing the check to the consultant, that’s the one thing you look at: This guy might be talking on my side now, but he was disloyal.”

At least in Republican circles, Mr. Schmidt may pay a bit of a price for the style of his return, both because of his prominence as a Republican critic on MSNBC and the revelatory nature of such postcampaign chronicles as “Game Change.” None of the Republican candidates for president made a serious effort to recruit him, though it seems unlikely Mr. Schmidt would have wanted to return.

“It’s not been an easy journey,” said Nicolle Wallace, who worked with Mr. Schmidt on the McCain campaign and on George W. Bush’s 2004 election campaign. “He spent a lot of time obsessing over the autopsy of 2008.”

Mr. Schmidt’s re-emergence is in part a result of a considered campaign of penance that began almost immediately after the loss: appearances, speeches and interviews brimming with self-criticism and challenges to his own party. At a postelection forum sponsored by The Atlantic, he said it would be “catastrophic” for Republicans to nominate Ms. Palin in 2012. In one of his first speeches, he came out in support of gay marriage.

He did a turn on “60 Minutes.” In “Game Change,” based on the book by John Heilemann and Mark Halperin, Mr. Schmidt is portrayed as an honest broker who realized too late he had made a ruinous mistake and whose culpability was shared. Mr. Schmidt came up with Ms. Palin’s name, and two other McCain campaign advisers — Rick Davis, the campaign manager, and A. B. Culvahouse Jr., a lawyer — were primarily in charge of checking her credentials in the space of a week.

Mr. Culvahouse, in a column in The Wall Street Journal, described the HBO movie as revisionist, and said the background check on Ms. Palin was “no less rigorous” than the investigation of other candidates. Mr. Davis declined to talk about Mr. Schmidt, reflecting what Republicans describe as resentment in McCain circles about the way, in their view, Mr. Schmidt patched his own boat.

“My mother always taught me that if you don’t have anything nice to say, then don’t say anything at all,” Mr. Davis wrote in an e-mail.

Mr. Schmidt said he has not spoken with Ms. Palin since the night Mr. McCain conceded. His criticism of her has been a defining theme of his post-2008 years, in contrast to Mr. McCain, who has praised her repeatedly. “If I knew two days before what I knew two days later, I would have handcuffed myself to the truck to prevent him from leaving the compound,” Mr. Schmidt said, recalling the moment that Mr. McCain left to announce his selection. “I guess the evidence of that is the trauma I still have four years later.”

“She absolutely should not be president: no way, no how,” he said. “I’ve watched her on the public stage over the past four years. There has been zero effort — zero — to improve any of her obvious deficiencies.”

Today, Mr. Schmidt seems to be trying to walk a line between taking responsibility and taking all the blame, as was clear on a recent day with him riding around the lake in his S.U.V., wandering a pristine beach, puttering around his office, and enjoying a long wine-soaked dinner as the sun set over the lake.

“My regret is I should have been the guy to say, ‘Stop, it’s too risky,’ ” he said, walking slowly up the road to his home. “As opposed to the guy saying: ‘Let’s take the risk. We have to win this.’ ”

How does that make him feel? “Terrible, terrible, terrible,” he said. “I have a level of regret that is hard to put into words. The notion that I would be a participant in a decision that, had events turned out the other way, this person would have been in national command authority? I am sick about it.”

Even here, a place that radiates tranquillity, with a life of golf and boat rides on the lake with family, Mr. Schmidt does not seem a man at peace. Consider him on gay marriage. “I would find it difficult to be involved in an effort that I think disenfranchises people from a fundamental right,” he said. “How do you work with people who are opposed to marriage equality? I don’t want to do it.”

“That said, I understand the hypocrisy in it because I’m probably going to vote for Mitt Romney at the end of the day,” he said. “It doesn’t make sense. You try to compartmentalize stuff in your head.”

At one moment, Mr. Schmidt talks about returning to politics to fix a broken system. But just for a moment.

“I don’t know if I ever want to do a campaign again,” he said. “I’m not sure I want to spend the rest of my career waiting to pounce like a cat the moment the other side says something stupid. Aha! I think there are really serious problems in this country and I think politics in a lot of ways is failing the country.”

Of course, that political environment is arguably one that Mr. Schmidt helped shape and thrived in. “Politics is a tough business,” said Mr. Schmidt, who was a key strategist when Republicans won seats in the 2002 midterm election and was one of the most aggressive figures in Mr. Bush’s campaign. “I’ve certainly done more than my fair share of pouncing on a stupid issue to win the news cycle of the day, to distract from what are real and important issues.”

To prepare for the part, Mr. Harrelson said that in his conversations with Mr. Schmidt, he was struck by Mr. Schmidt’s regrets but also by the extent to which he found him more likable, and less fearsome and partisan, than he had expected.

“I’ve played some parts that I thought were a bit of a stretch: like playing a cop, even playing a soldier,” Mr. Harrelson said. “But I think the biggest stretch for me was playing a Republican. I just assumed that we would be so diametrically opposed in our vantage points, in our philosophy and our opinions that there wouldn’t be much connections. But you never know. Here we are: buddies.”

Mr. Schmidt has been living here since last year. It’s a 45-minute drive to the Reno airport, and Mr. Schmidt spends much of his time on the road. His head is shaved clean and he has a salt-and-pepper goatee. His hair, he said, went completely gray while working for Mr. McCain.

It is important to remember, he said, the world he found when he arrived on the McCain campaign. Ms. Palin, whatever the unknowns, seemed his lifeline.

“Look, we were trying to win the election,” he said. “It was a political decision. We understood it was a political risk.”
284 2012-06-10 Over the years, the younger Mr. Mazzei formed a picture in his head of an ideal place to hang out but said he “just couldn’t find it.” He began dreaming of opening a cafe in which patrons could pay a monthly fee for unlimited coffee in an artsy milieu.

“Investors, clients, friends told me I was crazy,” he said.

Yet one friend knew a woman who might be good to talk with about the idea. She gave him Ms. Stokowski’s e-mail address.

He contacted her, saying that he was looking for someone with an artistic sensibility to help start a business. Amanda Cynkin, a close friend of hers, said that Ms. Stokowski had confided to her shortly before that she had dreamed of meeting a man who was “passionate, interested and interesting: basically, Anthony.”

They met for the first time in September 2009 at the Cornelia Street Cafe in Greenwich Village. Mr. Mazzei said he thought Ms. Stokowski was “a mega babe.” She said she felt a premonition that, “if this works out the way I think it could, it could change my life.”

He noticed that within minutes, she began using the word “we” when talking about the business. “I was like, ‘Oh, my God, I have a partner,’ ” he said.

Joseph Doran, one of Mr. Mazzei’s best friends, said the two “just clicked.”

In November 2009, they opened a prototype of their cafe in Mr. Mazzei’s Upper East Side apartment. He moved out, and they turned the place, Ms. Stokowski said, into a “concept shop, gallery and event space,” where guests would be offered tea or wine.

According to a description of it on the Apartment Therapy Web site: “It’s the kind of place where art doesn’t merely hang on the walls, but fills the entire space. Everything is available for purchase, including items in the fashion closet, the furniture people sit on, and various other objects.”

In early 2010 they opened a Fair Folks & a Goat cafe in New Orleans (the name, they say, comes from a painting with a mythological theme; Ms. Stokowski added in an e-mail, “It also happened to have great Googleability.”)

Though they grew close managing their operations, both were in other relationships, and neither dared to consider romantic feelings for the other, lest it jeopardize the project. “It created a distance of respect between us,” he said. “And allowed us to get to know each other in a different way.”

Fair Folks & a Goat soon attracted notice. With the business picking up, Mr. Mazzei, who continued to work at the National Financial Network and is now a senior vice president, was often in New Orleans, with Ms. Stokowski in New York. He began to feel what he called “a sweet melancholy” — glad about their success, but sadness at his being apart from her. “I realized that what was pushing the business idea forward was wanting to spend time with Aurora,” he said.

By fall 2010, their other relationships had ended. On a rare day when both were in New York, they went for a walk in Central Park, not unusual for one of their planning sessions. They meandered down to Bryant Park, where he suggested a ride on the carousel. There he asked her if their relationship could be more than professional. “I thought, If she goes for this, I’ve got another question coming soon,” he said.

She said that while she had long been fond of him, she found his declaration shocking. While she added that she was “really flattered, and I giggled a lot,” she also told him that she was “going to need some time to think about this.”

About a week later, when they next met, she said, she told him she had feelings for him, too, but for the sake of their employees and investors, they had to proceed with caution. For about nine months, they kept their relationship secret, even going so far as to deny it to anyone who would ask. They also continued working in different cities most of the time.

“It was tough, but it made us stronger,” Ms. Stokowski said.

Last spring, after meeting again at the Cornelia Street Cafe, he suggested that they take another ride on the Bryant Park carousel. There he presented her with an engagement ring, the same one his father had given his mother, Margaret M. Mazzei.

The couple both said that their decision to marry was based on what they had accomplished by sharing a vision. “We can make our lives into something really interesting and amazing,” Ms. Stokowski said. Mr. Mazzei said he became so enamored with her that she “smacked my world upside down and backwards.”

Once engaged, they began spreading the news. They closed the New Orleans Fair Folks, and in the fall they plan to open a new coffeehouse in Greenwich Village so they can live and work in the same city.

They were married at St. Patrick’s Cathedral on May 26 by the Rev. Robert J. Bubel. Ms. Stokowski wore a silky Vera Wang dress. The night before, she had fashioned a long white veil and the comb that held her hair back into a single piece.

At the reception at the Harold Pratt House on East 68th Street, Mr. Mazzei, in a black suit, sang “I love you,” into his bride’s ear as he twirled her around the dance floor, no longer in need of a carousel.
285 2012-06-10 I was shocked to learn that you were living with your parents while you were writing, producing and starring in the first season of HBO’s “Girls.” Moving back in with Mom and Dad after school is one reason that Gen Xers like myself privately disparage people of your generation. 

When I was graduating, I remember my parents’ surprise. They were like, “Do you realize that none of us would have accepted help from our parents?” They were shocked by what my friends were settling for. But I really love living with my parents. Few people who aren’t in my family understand it.

So are you still living with them? 

This is my next to last night at my parents’ house. I just got back from my new apartment in Brooklyn, where I’m doing some vague remodeling and painting of dank walls.

Are you moving to cool, young Williamsburg or established, family-oriented Brooklyn Heights? 

Family-oriented Brooklyn Heights. We lived there all through my high-school career, so I have an intense attachment to it. Other people think of Brooklyn Heights as where you become elderly, but I think of it as where you try pot for the first time.

There’s a scene early on in the show where a man performs oral sex on one of your friends, and then a couple of episodes later, we see the penis of Peter Scolari, who plays your father. Are you trying to make people say, “Wow, I never thought I’d see that on television”? 

If we have done nothing else for you, you cannot say that we didn’t show you Peter Scolari’s penis. But I don’t think it’s a shock-value thing. I seriously consider television to be the people’s medium. Like the idea of seeing your parents naked or having somebody go down on you and worrying about whether you smell or worrying about whether your body is weird or what goes across the face of a person who’s supposed to be experiencing pleasure but isn’t — those are things I’d love to normalize on TV.

The show has received a lot of criticism for featuring no characters of color. Should we expect to see an episode in which the girls get a black friend in Season 2? 

That would be bananas. I mean, it’s not going to be like, “Hey guys, we’ve been out looking for a black friend or a friend in a wheelchair or a friend with a hat.” The tough thing is you kind of can’t win on that one. I have to write people who feel honest but also push our cultural ball forward.

Is there anything that’s happened in your life that you would never put in the show? 

There hasn’t yet, but I’m hoping there will. I always imagined that having a baby is something that I’m going to keep in a private place, but maybe my curse is that all I’m going to want to do is tell everybody about what my birth process was like and what my children’s nightmares are.
286 2012-06-10 Noomi Rapace was exactly what I pictured when I read the Stieg Larsson series — from the look right down to the personality. She wore Lisbeth Salander like a second skin, making it one of the most brilliant portrayals of a character based on a novel I’ve ever seen. That level of acting puts most of what we see in American movies to shame.

I have to comment on the perplexing point of view of Ina May Gaskin, the lay midwife featured in the article about home birth. Her first child was delivered in a hospital and survived. Her second child was delivered at home and did not. Yet she sees the hospital as a sinister place. She acknowledges at least one home breech delivery in which the child was neurologically damaged after becoming temporarily “stuck,” without acknowledging that this very likely would not have happened in a hospital. If you knew that your birthing experience was going to be completely normal from start to finish, arranging a home birth would make sense. But no woman knows that.

Midwifery vs. Western medical care doesn’t need to be framed as a war between radically different lifestyle choices. Samantha Shapiro focuses so much on the relatively radical biography of Ina May Gaskin and the rural “utopian community post-fervor” setting of the Farm that the article effectively discourages open thinking. Like many patients who delivered their children under the care of a midwifery practice, I received top-notch prenatal care, and my delivery took place in the birthing center of a hospital. After my daughter was delivered in a birthing tub, her meconium was found to be bloody. My midwives immediately stepped aside and let a doctor take over. My daughter is healthy and benefited from a hospital whose staff works to ensure that women can have a more peaceful birthing experience with a lower rate of intervention, while ensuring that when medical intervention is necessary, it is close at hand.

If your baby is not born under the most ideal of circumstances, the loss is finite. Motherhood is not defined by how your baby is born, but by everything after that.

Scott Walker has said that his strategy is to “divide and conquer.” What he doesn’t realize is that those he has divided have found one another. Teachers have found the police. Small-business owners have found state workers whose incomes were docked. They have realized that their reduced revenues are the result of Walker’s selective attack on some (but not all) state-worker unions. Walker, despite his number-juggling, has contracted rather than expanded the state’s economy.
287 2012-06-10 Mr. Desai already has one project to point to: The first development to be built in a state-approved incentive housing zone opens this month in Old Saybrook. Called Ferry Crossing, it consists of 16 single-family town houses built on land donated by the town.

Aimed at a broad income spectrum, Ferry Crossing has a three-tiered rent structure adjusted for households earning 25, 50 and 80 percent of the area median income (currently $98,600 for a family of four). All 16 town houses are rented.

“We had over 200 families that requested an application,” said Tony Lyons, the president of the Hope Partnership, the nonprofit organization that partnered with the town on the project. “At the end of the day, we had almost 60 qualified applicants.”

Under the HOME program, towns are eligible for grants of up to $2,000 per unit once they adopt the housing zone regulations. Towns are also eligible for grants of up to $5,000 per unit for each building permit issued.

Old Saybrook decided to move ahead without any guarantee that those incentives would materialize — “no one is really counting on it,” Mr. Lyons said. The same is true in Branford, which just adopted incentive housing zone regulations and has submitted them for state approval.

“We’re cognizant of the troubles the state has,” said Richard Stoecker, Branford’s assistant planner, “and in the past there have been housing programs that start up and sputter away. But we realize that there need to be some opportunities for attracting people in the affordable range, and we have some infill areas with underutilized buildings where this development might work.”

Simsbury, too, is considering taking part, and has identified three sites for possible redevelopment as incentive housing zones. The town’s planning and zoning commission is focused on the need for entry-level housing, especially for local workers, and is not even factoring in financial incentives, said Hiram Peck, the director of planning.

In order to qualify for the incentive program, towns must meet two conditions. At least 20 percent of the housing in an incentive zone must be affordable to households earning no more than 80 percent of the area’s median income. The housing zone must also allow for a density of 6 single-family, 10 duplex or 20 multifamily units per acre.

The density levels have been a difficult sell in some communities. After considerable study, Wallingford officials balked at a plan to create a mixed-income district in an underdeveloped area downtown. The zone was to take in a six-block swath around a station included as a stop on the planned New Haven-Hartford-Springfield commuter rail line.

The plan will very likely come back for reconsideration by the town council, said John LeTourneau, a town councilor and supporter of incentive housing.

“A lot of it was lack of understanding and lack of vision,” said Mr. LeTourneau, who owns a lamp shop downtown. “Will this change the community? Yes, it will. But what do we have now? We have nothing. There are some decrepit properties down there. If nothing happens, it’s only going to get worse.”

People in North Haven also objected to Mario and Donna DiGioia’s proposal to create an incentive housing zone on a 15-acre parcel they own on Middletown Avenue. Owners of abutting properties were staunchly opposed to both the density and the inclusion of affordable housing, according to Ms. DiGioia.

So the DiGioias, who are developers, abandoned that idea, and are now proposing new zoning regulations that allow for what they call “housing opportunity zones.” These would have a reduced density of 4.5 houses (or 6 multifamily units) per acre, and no provision for affordable housing. If this plan is rejected, Ms. DiGioia said, they will submit an application under the state’s affordable housing law, which can override local zoning.

Yet although some towns are reluctant to embrace higher densities, others appear ready to move ahead with mixed-income zones, partly out of a desire to hold onto the younger generation, said David Fink, the policy director for the Partnership for Strong Communities.

“The towns are coming to grips with the idea that it wasn’t just the housing market that changed three years ago — the world changed,” Mr. Fink said. “They recognize that the housing they have may not be the housing they need.”
288 2012-06-10 After hearing from Jenny I decided to reread “The Heidi Chronicles.” I kept thinking about her remark about taking up where “Heidi” left off. That’s true, chronologically; Wasserstein’s play ends in 1989 and mine begins in 2012, but our female protagonists have virtually identical complaints. What conclusions, if any, are to be drawn from that?

Rereading “The Heidi Chronicles” at 42 I’m not sure what to make of my intensely emotional response to it at the age of 20. The play is full of twentysomething women with strategies to bypass Heidi’s fate. Why didn’t I ally myself with them and skip off for post-theater dessert feeling superior? Why, at 20, did I locate myself on that stage as the middle-age baby boomer Heidi Holland?

One possibility, I think, is that some of the reasons for Heidi’s unhappiness are not age-specific or era-specific as much as they are gender-specific and the product of a certain temperament that Wasserstein and I share: call it melancholic, call it artistic, call it the thing that makes you feel gray next to the bouncy people at your gym.

Or maybe our protagonists’ plights are not essentially female or melancholic as much as they are postfeminist. That would be the hardest explanation to swallow, I think. It would mean that whether you’re a woman 20 years past the feminist movement or 40, the same issues between men and women remain unresolved. For both our characters career building proved incompatible with marriage.

I wish Wasserstein were here to weigh in on all this. I wonder if she would be bummed out. We were supposed to have resolved all of this, right?

The last scene of “The Heidi Chronicles” seems to articulate this hope. We learn that Heidi has adopted a baby daughter. She’s become what we now call an S.M.C. — a single mother by choice. The play’s final image is of Heidi rocking her baby in an empty white room. She has just moved into a new apartment. The walls are freshly painted, and none of the furniture has arrived. The stage picture says clean slate, no baggage. We end on a note of sweet optimism; Heidi hopes that her daughter will have an easier path than hers.

Eleven years after she chose single motherhood for Heidi, Wasserstein chose it for herself. In 1999 she gave birth to a daughter, conceived via a donor Wasserstein knew but never publicly named.

A funny thing happened when we were casting “Rapture.” This is back when it truly, if totally improbably, had not occurred to me that I’d written a play in dialogue with “The Heidi Chronicles.” I had a phone call with the actress Amy Brenneman. We were wooing her to play the lead role (lucky for us, she ultimately agreed), and she had questions for me about the ending. Amy didn’t want the play to have an “arc of despair. ”

I agreed that it shouldn’t. I told her I was open to tinkering with the conclusion, but that I didn’t want “a ‘Heidi Chronicles’ ending.” I’ve always been a little bit critical of Wasserstein’s choice to end her play with a baby. Heidi never expresses a yearning for children, then suddenly shows up a blissed-out Madonna in the final scene.

I think this is a valid criticism of the play, but it’s more than a little problematic for me to be making it. I was arguing a “No ‘Heidi Chronicles’ ending” to Ms. Brenneman while my own little “ ‘Heidi Chronicles’ ending” waited with her baby sitter in the next room. I gave birth to a donor-conceived daughter, Ava, in October, and she is wonderful.

I did not write a homage to “The Heidi Chronicles,” and I do not endorse that play’s ending. But I have a play and a baby that suggest otherwise.

Why a baby for me but not for my character? Partly because I subscribe to Wordsworth’s belief that poetry comes from “emotions recollected in tranquillity.” I may have a good play in me about becoming a mother, but the time to access that play was not the year I was struggling to conceive. Also: I know an awful lot of women who are sad for the reasons Heidi and Cathy are sad and who don’t hunger for a baby. It felt more optimistic to leave my heroine in the romantic trenches, still swinging rather than choosing (for the moment at least) motherhood.

If Wendy Wasserstein could see my play and have a drink with me afterward (and how much would I love that?), I would want to talk to her about single motherhood. The choice felt very unexpected and bold when Heidi made it in 1988. It still felt, to me, bold and unexpected when Wendy did it in 1999. By the time I did it in 2011 Hollywood had churned out two romantic comedies, “The Switch” and “The Back-Up Plan,” about single women having babies alone. This, I think, is a pretty big deal. Hollywood rom-coms don’t stake out new territory. Self-chosen single motherhood had become pretty much mainstream.

My question for Wasserstein would be: Is this good news or bad news? I mean, I love that my choice has been so warmly received and with so little fanfare. My brother told a teenage waitress he works with about how I made him an uncle; her response was, “My friend Jake is a donor kid.” He said she barely looked up from her side work. He called me, incredulous and excited, and said, “Ava’s going to go to school with other kids like her.”

The mother in me is thrilled about this. The romantic in me isn’t so sure. I would prefer to be an ecstatic aberration, rather than the new normal. I don’t think the world Heidi dreams for her daughter as the curtain falls is a world in which women choosing single motherhood is so common that no one bats an eye. It’s not the dream that closes my play either.

The dream, then and now, postfeminist and post-postfeminist (or whatever we choose to call this moment) is still simple and still incredibly hard: How do men and women figure out how to negotiate their equality better? As Cathy in “Rapture” advises a female student in the throes of love and ambition, “My middle-aged observation is that, in a relationship between two equals, you can’t both go first.”
289 2012-06-10 “It’s a lot more beautiful,” said one of these people, who has seen a demonstration of Apple’s maps service.

At the same time, Apple is expected to update its Mac family of computers with new hardware, these people said.

The conference is “the most important event of the year,” said John Casasanta, owner of Tap Tap Tap, the software studio that makes the popular Camera+ app, available only on the iPhone. “I’m having trouble thinking of any conference that comes anywhere near as relevant.”

Apps are among the strongest weapons Apple and Google have for marketing their mobile technologies to consumers. The bounty of software available for Android and iOS, as varied as racing games and apps for managing recordings on cable boxes, is a chief reason the mobile phone market has settled into a two-horse race.

Rival technologies plagued by a scarcity of apps, including Research in Motion’s BlackBerry and Microsoft’s Windows Phone, are finding it difficult to persuade developers to invest in them.

Apple’s continued influence among mobile app developers flies in the face of predictions that the company would steadily lose clout as Android phones flooded the market, presenting developers with a much bigger target audience. And it could help Apple avoid the fate the Macintosh experienced in the 1990s when competing with PCs running Microsoft’s Windows operating system.

Although many considered the Mac to be superior, Microsoft outsold Apple’s computers in part by distributing its product broadly on hardware made by many companies, which helped Windows to snowball.

Software developers flocked to the larger Windows PC market, which in turn attracted more customers, which attracted still more software developers to Windows. For the better part of two decades, Microsoft held the allegiance of software developers, relegating the Mac to the periphery of the computer business.

In the mobile market, there is no doubt Apple’s share has been overshadowed by Google, which makes Android freely available to any hardware maker that wants to build a phone with it.

Although the first Android handsets did not appear until about a year after the iPhone was released, widespread support from handset manufacturers, especially Samsung, and wireless carriers helped propel Android to 59 percent of the smartphone market during the first quarter, compared with 23 percent for the iPhone, according to estimates from IDC, a research firm.

There have been predictions that the huge volume of Android smartphones being sold would persuade developers to abandon or at least weaken their iPhone efforts by, for example, developing apps first for phones running Android.

In December, Eric Schmidt, the executive chairman of Google, said that six months from then, mobile developers would begin favoring Android app projects over iPhone apps.

“Because ultimately applications vendors are driven by volume and the volume is favored by the open approach Google is taking,” Mr. Schmidt told an audience at a technology conference in Paris.

That six-month mark passed last week. In the interim, the companies behind some well-known iOS apps like Instagram have made Android versions of their software. But as the technology writer and investor M.G. Siegler wrote in a column on TechCrunch last week, Mr. Schmidt’s prediction that developers would begin making Android apps first did not come to pass, at least not the most prominent developers.

Christopher Katsaros, a spokesman for Google, declined to comment for this article.

Developers say it is easier, and therefore less costly, to develop apps for the iPhone than for Android phones, in part because there are far more models of Android phones in use, with different screen sizes, processors and other technologies.

The variations in hardware and software are not insurmountable obstacles, developers say, but performing the testing to ensure that apps run properly on most Android phones adds time and cost.

“Writing apps consistently across all of them is really hard,” said Nat Brown, an independent iOS developer in Seattle who has created a line of children’s apps for the iPhone.

Mr. Brown also said he periodically considered writing Android apps, but had decided against it in part because iPhone users have demonstrated a higher willingness than Android users to pay for apps.

Flurry, a mobile analytics firm, published a report last week that estimated that for every $1 a developer brought in for an application on iOS, he could expect to take in about 24 cents on Android.

“Apple is almost the default first platform you develop for and then you develop for Android,” said Rob Cihra, an analyst at Evercore Partners.

Furthermore, Apple has been far more effective in getting iPhone users to update their phones with the latest version of iOS than Google and its partners have with Android. This makes it easier for iPhone developers to write their apps because there is less variation in the underlying software on the devices.

One other advantage Apple has among developers is the iPad, which has so far maintained its dominance in the tablet category, despite challenges by an assortment of Android tablets. Because the iPhone and iPad use iOS, it is relatively easy for developers to adapt their software to run on Apple’s tablet, significantly expanding the audience of potential customers beyond the iPhone.

It is difficult to say whether Apple’s position with developers will remain strong if Android continues to gobble market share. But various surveys have tried to gauge which smartphones developers plan to write apps for in the near future, and the iPhone often scores very high.

Still, Google is closing the gap between the sheer number of apps for Android, which stands at about 500,000. Earlier this year, Apple said there were 600,000 apps in its App Store.

One occasional source of discontent among Apple’s developers is the greater control that the company exerts over its App Store, for which it takes a more hands-on approach to approving software for distribution than Google does.

Paul Kafasis, the chief executive of Rogue Amoeba Software in Boston, has had a couple of run-ins with Apple over iPhone apps that Apple initially rejected for different reasons. Most recently, Apple objected to a function in an iOS app, Airfoil Speakers Touch, that allowed users to listen to music streamed from a song library on iTunes and other Apple devices.

Mr. Kafasis modified the function in the app, which Apple then allowed to be sold. While he chafes at the gatekeeper function Apple performs, he said he had no plans to develop products for Android.
290 2012-06-10 For aficionados of Frank Lloyd Wright, the new SC Johnson Gallery (scjohnson.com/visit) in Racine, Wis., offers another attraction on the fan circuit.     The 2,000-square-foot gallery opened on June 2 in the SC Johnson Administration Building (ab...
291 2012-06-10 Jerry Coleman has spent most of the last 70 years in professional baseball, but he has not been on the winning side of a no-hitter since Don Larsen's perfect game in the 1956 World Series. Coleman was an infielder for the Yankees.     ''Frankly, w...
292 2012-06-10 McCULLY--Lucille M.,of New York City and Lake Tahoe, NV, died on April 24, 2012 in Roseville, CA. A Memorial Mass will be held at St. Thomas More Church, 65 East 89th Street, on Thursday, June 21st at 10:30am....
293 2012-06-10 At the United States Open championship, the charm and the challenge for the world's best golfers is coping with a course many of them have not played for more than a decade, if at all. This year's site is the Lake Course of Olympic Club in San Fra...
294 2012-06-10 DRURY--Gilda "Jill" Gilda "Jill" Drury Parenteau Valvano passed away on Monday May 21, 2012. She was 84 years old. Jill was born in Queens, NY on April 17th, 1928. She attended Queens College in New York and was the daughter of the late Mario and ...
295 2012-06-10 CORLISS--Ronni, born December 23, 1947, wife of William "Bill" Corliss; daughter of Joyce Lewin and the late Armand Lewin; step-daughter of Robert "Bob" Schwartz, WWII Veteran; sister Harley I. Lewin; mother of two fabulous loving sons Dustin Ross...
296 2012-06-11 Picture a bracket-style Fictional Police Brood-Off in which all those moody cops populating the international television landscape would compete to see who could convey the most while saying the least. The smart money would be on Tom Selleck’s growly Jesse Stone to come out of the American bracket. In the championship he might well meet David Morrissey’s Tom Thorne, who, based on the two intense dramas being offered this week on Encore, would have an excellent shot at being the British finalist.

Mr. Morrissey, a veteran of many British television series, has reticence down to an art form as he brings Thorne, the character from Mark Billingham’s crime novels, to life.

In the first piece, “Thorne: Sleepyhead,” on Tuesday night, we learn one reason that Thorne seems so haunted: The creepy present-day case he is working turns out to be related to a case from his past in which his conduct was not exactly by the book. And by the end of the second, “Thorne: Scaredy Cat,” on Wednesday, poor Detective Inspector Thorne has a whole new set of burdens to brood about.

In “Sleepyhead,” the better of the two, someone is killing women by inducing strokes. One victim survives, but with locked-in syndrome.

“It’s characterized by complete paralysis of all voluntary muscle functions in the body, apart from those which control eye movements,” a doctor (Natascha McElhone) explains to Thorne. “So her brain works. She can hear you, she can understand everything, but she can’t move. It’s like waking up in your own coffin.”
297 2012-06-11 The South African Branden Grace hopes to make noise at the United States Open after posting three European Tour wins in 2012....
298 2012-06-11 Andy Zhang, a 14-year-old Floridian of Chinese descent, will take Paul Casey's place, making him the youngest competitor in the Open since World War II, according to the U.S.G.A....
299 2012-06-11 The judge overseeing the trial of Rajat K. Gupta adhered to his restrictions on evidence related to Mr. Gupta's charitable works....
300 2012-06-11 Even though Spain received $125 billion in a bailout, it is unlikely to work....
301 2012-06-11 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
302 2012-06-11 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
303 2012-06-11 What Apple's cooperation with automakers means for in-car electronics systems....
304 2012-06-11 A New York Times editor participates in the United States Open National Playoffs, a tournament that eventually earns the winner a spot in U.S. Open qualifying....
305 2012-06-11 During its presentation on Monday, Apple highlighted features that it made just for China. It shows just how important that market has become for the company....
306 2012-06-11 During Monday's Apple developer conference, Tim Cook, Apple's chief executive, was no longer compared to Steven P. Jobs, the co-founder of Apple, who often commanded an Apple keynote as a rock star. But Mr. Cook had control and command, so much so...
307 2012-06-11 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
308 2012-06-11 David Pogue learned a lot at the Apple Worldwide Developers' Conference presentation Monday. He lays it all out here, including news about Airport Express and two photo programs....
309 2012-06-11 A paper on Australian warming and the greenhouse effect makes news and then is "put on hold."...
310 2012-06-11 Apple now has 400 million active accounts in iTunes with credit cards. That means that all of Apple's iOS devices are linked to those credit cards, too, challenging Google Wallet and others in the race to become a smartphone payment method....
311 2012-06-11 Apple's new releases are usually sold for their effect on consumers and educators. With iPhones and iPads increasingly making their way into offices, however, and cloud computing blurring the line between work and home, Apple is becoming an enterp...
312 2012-06-11 A new feature on the iPhone moves Apple closer to the mobile wallet business by storing digital payment options and loyalty cards in one handy application....
313 2012-06-11 There is no neutral field in the college baseball regional tournaments: The Stony Brook Seawolves had to beat L.S.U. on the road to advance to the College World Series....
314 2012-06-11 The Securities and Exchange Commission plans rules that will require companies to trade most derivatives contracts through regulated exchanges and force most derivatives deals to go through clearinghouses....
315 2012-06-11 Here are the results from the New Yorker's contest asking readers to imagine corporate/literary mashups....
316 2012-06-11 A popular class of drugs used to treat Type 2 diabetes may increase the risk of vision problems, a new study suggests....
317 2012-06-11 In a report to Group of 20 leaders, regulators and central bankers found that the United States, the European Union and Japan are behind schedule on measures that were adopted as part of an effort to avert future banking crises....
318 2012-06-11 After thinking long and hard, SaneBox, which helps users manage their e-mail in-boxes, decided to charge for its services....
319 2012-06-11 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
320 2012-06-11 Apple's new Next Generation MacBook Pro adds a powerful new laptop to the company's product line, but that addition also makes the company's product line a little more confusing. Apple's MacBook Pro line requires more parsing on the part of the co...
321 2012-06-11 Mia Carbonell joined Forbes Media, New York, as senior vice president for corporate communications. She succeeds Monie Begley, who left, the company said. Ms. Carbonell had most recently been vice president for corporate communications at HSN.

Sung Chang joined the New York office of AKQA as creative lead for the agency’s new Verizon Wireless digital account. He had most recently been senior partner and executive creative director at Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, New York, part of WPP.

Dentsu, Tokyo, opened a digital agency, Dentsu Mobius, in Singapore, as part of its Dentsu Asia division.

Sean Dougherty rejoined Brand New School, in the New York office, as a creative director and director. He had been associate creative director and director at Superfad, New York. When Brand New School opened in 2000 in Venice, Calif., Mr. Dougherty had been one of the first employees.

Ian Fairbrother joined Baldwin&, Raleigh, N.C., as a writer, primarily on the Burt’s Bees account. He had been a senior writer at Wieden & Kennedy, Portland, Ore.

Jamie Gallo joined the National Basketball Association, New York, as executive vice president for marketing. He assumes duties from Danny Meiseles, who previously supervised marketing and continues as executive vice president and executive producer for production, programming and broadcasting as well as adding oversight of the interactive services department. Mr. Gallo had been president of TBWA/Chiat/Day New York, part of the TBWA/Chiat/Day division of TBWA Worldwide, owned by the Omnicom Group.

Jeff Geisler, executive business partner at McCann Erickson New York, is being promoted to new posts, global brand director on the MasterCard account and head of business leadership. McCann Erickson New York is part of the McCann Erickson Worldwide division of the McCann Worldgroup, which is owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Elizabeth Gross joined the Boston office of Mad*Pow in a new post, marketing director. She had been senior manager for acquisition marketing at Constant Contact, Waltham, Mass.

Chris Hayes joined Huge, Brooklyn, in a new post, global managing director, focused on new business. He had been managing partner for global new business development at Y&R, New York, part of the Young & Rubicam Group division of WPP. Huge is owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Scott Hess joined Spark, Chicago, in a new post, senior vice president for human intelligence and research. He had been vice president for insights at TRU, part of WPP. Spark is part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of the Publicis Groupe.

Gabriel Johnson joined Engine Company 1, San Francisco, as a copywriter. He had been a copywriter at Butler, Shine, Stern & Partners, Sausalito, Calif.

Tom Jump joined Leo Burnett, part of the Publicis Groupe, in a new post, general manager of growth and operations for its New York agency network, which includes Leo Burnett New York and Atelier. He had most recently been chief revenue officer at CampusLive.com and previously worked at the Chicago headquarters of Burnett for 12 years.

Matt Kilmartin joined the New York office of Krux as vice president for sales. He assumes duties from Dave Smith, who previously led sales and services and takes on a new role as vice president for solutions. Mr. Kilmartin had led sales and account management for the Advertising Decision Solution business unit of Akamai Technologies.

Yaakov Kimelfeld joined Kantar Media Compete, Boston, as chief research officer. He succeeds John Bremer, who left last year, the company said. Mr. Kimelfeld had most recently been senior vice president and digital research and analytics director at MediaVest, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group unit of the Publicis Groupe. Kantar Media Compete is part of the Kantar Media unit of WPP.

MacGillivray Freeman Films, Los Angeles, which specializes in movies for Imax theaters, started a division, MacGillivray Media, that will create content for realms that include, in addition to Imax theaters, television, mobile media and theatrical films.

PM Publicidad, Atlanta, hired three executives. Adrian Cano, an art director, joins as a creative director; he had been a senior graphic designer at Believe Branding. Hernán Feuermann, a copywriter, joins as a creative director; he had most recently been director for strategic planning at BC&G. And Gerardo Olivo joins in a new post, director for new business development; he had worked in business development at Chip Ganassi Racing, Charlotte, N.C.

Anush Prabhu rejoined Deutsch New York, in a new post, director for insights and communication planning. He had been managing director for communications planning and analytics at McGarryBowen, part of the Dentsu Network division of Dentsu. Mr. Prabhu had previously worked at Deutsch New York from 2000 to 2007. Also at Deutsch New York, Brent Vartan, executive vice president and director for strategic planning, was promoted to partner and chief strategy officer, assuming duties that had been handled by Bert Moore, who left in March. Deutsch New York is part of the Deutsch division of Lowe & Partners, which is owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Rio SEO, San Diego, which was recently spun out from Covario, acquired and absorbed Top Local Search, San Diego. Financial terms were not disclosed.

Zihla Salinas, senior vice president for strategy and relationship lead at Rapp, New York, part of the Omnicom Group, was promoted to a new post, chief development officer for the United States.

Chad Saul joined MDC Partners in a new post, chief growth officer, based in Los Angeles. He had been chief marketing officer at Deutsch L.A., which is the Marina del Rey, Calif., office of Deutsch, part of the Lowe & Partners division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
322 2012-06-11 Judges have piled on punishments to reach sentences of 100 years or more in response to the perception that those who engage in financial fraud causing significant investor losses should not be treated any differently than murderers....
323 2012-06-11 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
324 2012-06-11 Updates from Apple’s keynote presentation at its Worldwide Developers Conference....
325 2012-06-11 JetBlue's game show, a study of business travelers and more in our daily capsule of travel news....
326 2012-06-11 While drownings have been declining for decades in the United States, they remain the second leading cause of injury-related deaths....
327 2012-06-11 When unemployment forces an early retirement. | Data companies and the bare-bones approach to online security. | Gretchen Morgenson explains the Spanish housing crisis.
328 2012-06-11 Supporting a structure of kleptocracy....
329 2012-06-11 The markets seem strangely unimpressed....
330 2012-06-11 Smartphones running Google's Android operating system outsell iPhones more than two to one. But as Nick Wingfield and Brian X. Chen report in Monday's New York Times, Apple has held onto one critical advantage even as Google's system has surged: t...
331 2012-06-11 India Ink asks readers from Pakistan and India: Are military and government egos standing in the way of a much-needed demilitarization of Siachen?...
332 2012-06-11 Plus: rude waiters, why freemiums don't work, start-up financing and Twitter tweets of the week....
333 2012-06-11 ¶Qantas Airways, Sydney, named Droga5 as its global creative agency of record, assuming duties that had been handled for 17 years by M&C Saatchi. Droga5 Australia, Sydney, will be the lead creative planning agency, working with David Droga, chairman, and his team, based in the agency’s New York headquarters. After a review for the media part of the account, Qantas decided to keep ZenithOptimedia, part of the Publicis Groupe, as the worldwide media agency. Two other Publicis Groupe agencies will work for Qantas: Amnesia Razorfish, for digital media strategy, and Publicis Mojo, which continues as a strategic adviser and on a project basis. Also, R/GA, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, will handle what are being described as specialist digital projects. Spending was estimated at more than $60 million.

¶Nina B. Link, president and chief executive at MPA — the Association of Magazine Media, New York, which is the trade organization for the magazine industry, said she would step down at the end of the year, when her contract expires, to re-establish her consulting and product development company. Ms. Link has led the organization, formerly known as the Magazine Publishers of America, since September 1999. A search is under way for a successor.

¶Alex Lubar joined McCann Erickson North America, New York, as chief marketing officer, focused on new business. He assumes duties from Barbara Yolles, who had the title of chief growth officer since she joined a year ago; Ms. Yolles is leaving, the agency said, adding that the decision was hers. Mr. Lubar had been senior vice president for new business at Grey New York, part of the Grey division of the Grey Group, which is owned by WPP. McCann Erickson North America is part of the McCann Worldwide unit of the McCann Worldgroup, which is owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies.

¶Craig Mangan joined BBDO San Francisco as executive vice president and executive creative director, assuming duties from Mike McKay, executive creative director, who left last fall to join Eleven, San Francisco, as partner and chief creative officer. Mr. Mangan had been an associate creative director at Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, San Francisco, part of the Omnicom Group. BBDO San Francisco is part of BBDO North America, a division of the BBDO Worldwide unit of Omnicom.

¶Christian Carl joined Euro RSCG New York, part of the Euro RSCG Worldwide unit of Havas Worldwide, as one of four executive creative directors, focused primarily on the Dos Equis account and providing creative support for the agency’s business development efforts. He had been creative director at McGarryBowen, New York, part of the Dentsu Network division of Dentsu, and before that worked for another Havas Worldwide agency, Arnold Worldwide. Havas Worldwide is part of Havas.
334 2012-06-11 another bank bailout, this time in . Who could have predicted that?

The answer, of course, is everybody. In fact, the whole story is starting to feel like a comedy routine: yet again the economy slides, unemployment soars, banks get into trouble, governments rush to the rescue — but somehow it’s only the banks that get rescued, not the unemployed.

Just to be clear, Spanish banks did indeed need a bailout. Spain was clearly on the edge of a “doom loop” — a well-understood process in which concern about banks’ solvency forces the banks to sell assets, which drives down the prices of those assets, which makes people even more worried about solvency. Governments can stop such doom loops with an infusion of cash; in this case, however, the Spanish government’s own solvency is in question, so the cash had to come from a broader European fund.

So there’s nothing necessarily wrong with this latest bailout (although a lot depends on the details). What’s striking, however, is that even as European leaders were putting together this rescue, they were signaling strongly that they have no intention of changing the policies that have left almost a quarter of Spain’s workers — and more than half its young people — jobless.

Most notably, last week the declined to cut interest rates. This decision was widely expected, but that shouldn’t blind us to the fact that it was deeply bizarre. Unemployment in area has soared, and all indications are that the Continent is entering a new . Meanwhile, inflation is slowing, and market expectations of future inflation have plunged. By any of the usual rules of monetary policy, the situation calls for aggressive rate cuts. But the central bank won’t move.

And that doesn’t even take into account the growing risk of a euro crackup. For years Spain and other troubled European nations have been told that they can only recover through a combination of fiscal austerity and “internal devaluation,” which basically means cutting wages. It’s now completely clear that this strategy can’t work unless there is strong growth and, yes, a moderate amount of inflation in the European “core,” mainly — which supplies an extra reason to keep interest rates low and print lots of money. But the central bank won’t move.
335 2012-06-11 Mr. Bloomberg said Sunday that racial profiling was banned by the Police Department, and that “we will not tolerate it.” He added, however, that the city would not “deny reality” in order to stop different groups according to their relative proportions in the population. (He used the examples of men versus women and young versus old people, rather than white versus black or Hispanic.)

“If we stopped people based on census numbers, we would stop many fewer criminals, recover many fewer weapons and allow many more violent crimes to take place,” Mr. Bloomberg said.

“We will not do that,” he added. “We will not bury our heads in the sand.”

Some critics have pointed out that, as the number of stops increased, the percentage in which guns were found diminished. Last year, the police seized 780 guns, suggesting that guns were recovered in roughly one in 1,000 stops.

But Mr. Bloomberg said the policy was having an equally important effect by deterring people from carrying guns.

“By making it ‘too hot to carry,’ the N.Y.P.D. is preventing guns from being carried on our streets,” he said. “That is our real goal — preventing violence before it occurs, not responding to the victims after the fact.”

The difficulty of allaying concerns about the policy became clear as soon as the mayor finished speaking, when the pastor of the church, Bishop A. D. Lyons, told reporters that he thought it was wrong that so many of those stopped were black.

“We’re not the only ones carrying guns,” he said.

Asked if he thought the police engaged in racial profiling, he said yes, and added that a lot of police officers “don’t want to be in Brownsville and they have an attitude when they come in Brownsville, and you’ve got to deal with their attitude.”

Some of the congregants, too, expressed unease about the policy, although they seemed to appreciate Mr. Bloomberg’s attempt to address the criticism.

“He has an understanding of what we’re going through,” said Timothy Coleman, 55, though he objected to how the policy was used and said he himself had been stopped “just for being in the neighborhood.”

“The neighborhood has enough to fear,” he added.

Annie Williams, 85, said she thought young people were often stopped for little cause. “I don’t think it’s right if the children are just walking down the street,” she said.

In a sign of how seriously City Hall is taking the firestorm over stop-and-frisk, Mr. Bloomberg was accompanied to the church by several of his senior aides: the police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly; the schools chancellor, Dennis M. Walcott; and two deputy mayors, Caswell F. Holloway and Howard Wolfson.

In a speech that was clearly intended to show particular sensitivity to its audience, Mr. Bloomberg opened with an allusion to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s “I Have a Dream” speech, to suggest that gun violence remained a barrier to full racial equality.

Later, he said of the frisk policy, “to borrow a phrase from President Clinton, I believe the practice needs to be mended, not ended” — a reference to a phrase that Mr. Clinton used in a very different context, in a 1995 speech defending affirmative action programs.
336 2012-06-11 The industry, its opponents, Congress and the courts are all focused on whether a disposal site can be found for the nation’s nuclear waste, and whether waste should be moved out of fuel pools and into sturdy dry casks to better protect them from earthquakes and terrorism. Quakes that struck reactors in Japan and in Virginia last year also raise questions about the safety of today’s reactors.

When the president picks a geologist, “it’s a new day and a new age and a new way of looking at things,” said Robert R. Loux, a former director of the Nevada Nuclear Waste Project Office, which opposed construction of a waste repository in that state.

Dr. Macfarlane, who declined to be interviewed before her confirmation hearing, does not seem to have said much in public about the desirability of nuclear power as opposed to other electricity sources. But she has opposed Yucca Mountain, which was ruled out by Mr. Obama but is still favored by most Republican lawmakers and some Democrats.

“It is almost impossible to decipher the detailed history of a rock, let alone predict reactions into the geologic future,” Dr. Macfarlane wrote in “Uncertainty Underground: Yucca Mountain and the Nation’s High-Level Nuclear Waste,” a collection of scholarly articles published in 2006 that she jointly edited.

She wrote the concluding chapter, in which she said, “Geology has not advanced far enough yet to expect that it can do this for the rocks at Yucca Mountain.” The Department of Energy’s analysis tries to establish that Yucca would entomb the wastes for a million years, but no one should have confidence in the science behind such predictions, Dr. Macfarlane wrote. In 2010, she was appointed to the 15-member Blue Ribbon Commission assigned to look into alternatives to Yucca.

The industry and the commission are still debating what should be done with the waste until a permanent repository is found. Dr. Macfarlane is already on record as favoring reducing the amount in the pools and moving more into dry cask storage. While the spent fuel in pools at Japan’s damaged Fukushima Daiichi plant is still causing worries, the waste in the casks is secure even though a tsunami rolled through the area.

An earthquake last August centered in Mineral, Va., hit the twin-unit North Anna plants there with greater force than its reactors were designed to withstand. They were shut down for weeks for inspection, yet no significant damage was found.

As a geologist, Dr. Macfarlane would be likely to take an active role in the commission’s re-evaluation of earthquake safety east of the Rockies, prompted by a United States Geological Survey reassessment of earthquake probabilities.

Her confirmation is considered highly likely, mainly because of the Senate’s practice of confirming members to multimember agencies in pairs, one Democrat and one Republican. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, and other Republicans called for the reappointment of Kristine L. Svinicki, whose term expires at the end of this month. Ms. Svinicki, a nuclear engineer, is one of the few women to serve on the commission. She was previously on the staff of the Senate Armed Services Committee and has dealt with military and civilian nuclear issues.

Dr. Svinicki would be confirmed to a full five-year term. But if confirmed, Dr. Macfarlane would serve out the remainder of Dr. Jaczko’s term, which runs to June 30, 2013. Because the chairman is designated by the president, however, she could lose that role if the White House changes hands in January.

And while the Republicans on the committee may not like Dr. Macfarlane’s position on Yucca, they have acknowledged publicly that Dr. Jaczko, who announced last month that he would step down, has been far too divisive as chairman.

Dr. Macfarlane, 48, who has taught environmental science at George Mason University since 2006, does not have experience running a government regulatory panel. Fellow members of the Blue Ribbon Commission and others who have dealt with her in an academic context said she frequently tried to build consensus among colleagues on technical issues. Commission votes are often divided, like Supreme Court justices’ opinions, but nuclear industry executives say the relentless discord at the commission has slowed the agency’s decision-making.

Edwin Lyman, a nuclear expert at the Union of Concerned Scientists, said: “The chairman doesn’t have that much additional authority; when it comes to policy issues, it’s just one vote out of five. The chairman’s power is based partly on the ability to persuade.”

Dr. Jaczko has frequently been outvoted 4 to 1 on decisions like April’s vote to approve a construction and operating license for two new reactors near Augusta, Ga. The chairman has a bigger role in administrative decisions, which Dr. Jackzo used to slow down consideration of Yucca Mountain; if Yucca questions reached her desk in the next few months, Dr. Macfarlane is expected to do the same.
337 2012-06-11 Mr. Rajoy told supporters when he was elected in November that Spain would “stop being a problem and instead form part of the solution” to the euro debt crisis, and he inaugurated changes that included an overhaul of Spain’s rigid labor market rules as the jobless rate hit 24.3 percent, the highest in Europe. The changes were welcomed by economists as the boldest attempt to date to loosen collective bargaining agreements.

Before pushing the changes through Parliament, Mr. Rajoy was caught on tape predicting that such a challenge to labor unions would lead to a general strike — which it did, on March 29, without lasting consequences.

Mr. Rajoy was also praised for toughening the penalties on regional governments that failed to meet their fiscal targets. Regional overspending accounted for two-thirds of Spain’s budget overruns last year.

But his government was caught flat-footed by the problems at Bankia, the largest of several savings banks saddled with unbearable mortgage losses after the construction bubble burst. Bankia was nationalized in early May, but still had to request $24 billion of additional capital. It was a slap in the face; the government had just estimated that the capital shortfall of the whole Spanish banking system was no more than $19 billion.

Spain opted for “the worst possible way of doing things,” Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, recently told members of the European Parliament, “because everybody ends up doing the right thing, but at the highest possible cost.”

After Spain agreed to the bailout on Saturday, Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy, a consulting firm in London that assesses sovereign debt risk, said, “The question right now is whether Spain and its creditors are able to agree on an acceptable level of intrusiveness and surveillance.”

He said that Mr. Rajoy had shown himself to be “a flip-flopper” over how closely European nations should work together, insisting that the International Monetary Fund’s role be highly circumscribed in the bailout, even though he had previously called on European governments to “cede more sovereignty” to a central fiscal authority. Three months earlier, Mr. Rajoy abruptly broke ranks with his European counterparts at a Brussels meeting by lowering Spain’s budget deficit target in the name of Spanish sovereignty.

Mr. Rajoy, 57, doggedly rose through his party’s ranks largely by maintaining ambiguous silences at crucial moments. But many see that approach as a problem at a time when the country is facing its most serious challenge since the transition to democracy in the late 1970s.

Beyond doing little to reassure Spaniards, Mr. Rajoy’s remoteness has giving rise, economists and European officials say, to a swirl of conflicting messages about the true health of the Spanish banks and the government’s own finances that left the country careening. “Waiting patiently is what has always worked best for him, and being in office hasn’t changed his view on that,” said Josep Ramoneda, a well-known philosopher and political commentator in Spain.

“Given the way Bankia’s problems were handled,” he said, “Rajoy’s credibility has fallen close to zero.”

Some of the government’s conflicting signals may have been intentional, political analysts say, as Mr. Rajoy’s government tried to avoid setting off a run on bank deposits and a mass flight of capital out of the country. The government danced around as it pursued aid — without actually asking for it until Saturday.

But there is consensus that Mr. Rajoy has failed as a communicator. The most prominent example came in April, when he was confronted by journalists in the lobby of Parliament after presenting his economic plans to senators. He promptly turned tail and headed for a garage exit, and a picture of the getaway was splashed across the front pages of Spanish newspapers the following morning.

In an autobiography, “In Confidence,” published during his campaign in September, Mr. Rajoy recalled being studious and quiet as a young man, following a father who climbed the ranks of the judiciary during the dictatorship of Francisco Franco. Mr. Rajoy went on to study law before qualifying to become a land registrar like two of his three siblings.

“I believe that I’m a lot like my father,” Mr. Rajoy wrote. “He is a perfectionist, somewhat introverted and very cautious.”

But Mr. Rajoy has become so removed from the public that Juan José Millás, a columnist, wrote a scathing critique of the prime minister in May that compared him to his sculpture in Madrid’s wax museum. “It’s hard to know which is the authentic one,” Mr. Millás wrote in the weekend magazine of the country’s leading daily, El País.

The statue, he said, “behaves like the original: it doesn’t answer, it’s there without being there, and the expression on its face never changes.”
338 2012-06-11 “It’s a lot more beautiful,” said one of these people, who has seen a demonstration of Apple’s maps service.

At the same time, Apple is expected to update its Mac family of computers with new hardware, these people said.

The conference is “the most important event of the year,” said John Casasanta, owner of Tap Tap Tap, the software studio that makes the popular Camera+ app, available only on the iPhone. “I’m having trouble thinking of any conference that comes anywhere near as relevant.”

Apps are among the strongest weapons Apple and Google have for marketing their mobile technologies to consumers. The bounty of software available for Android and iOS, as varied as racing games and apps for managing recordings on cable boxes, is a chief reason the mobile phone market has settled into a two-horse race.

Rival technologies plagued by a scarcity of apps, including Research in Motion’s BlackBerry and Microsoft’s Windows Phone, are finding it difficult to persuade developers to invest in them.

Apple’s continued influence among mobile app developers flies in the face of predictions that the company would steadily lose clout as Android phones flooded the market, presenting developers with a much bigger target audience. And it could help Apple avoid the fate the Macintosh experienced in the 1990s when competing with PCs running Microsoft’s Windows operating system.

Although many considered the Mac to be superior, Microsoft outsold Apple’s computers in part by distributing its product broadly on hardware made by many companies, which helped Windows to snowball.

Software developers flocked to the larger Windows PC market, which in turn attracted more customers, which attracted still more software developers to Windows. For the better part of two decades, Microsoft held the allegiance of software developers, relegating the Mac to the periphery of the computer business.

In the mobile market, there is no doubt Apple’s share has been overshadowed by Google, which makes Android freely available to any hardware maker that wants to build a phone with it.

Although the first Android handsets did not appear until about a year after the iPhone was released, widespread support from handset manufacturers, especially Samsung, and wireless carriers helped propel Android to 59 percent of the smartphone market during the first quarter, compared with 23 percent for the iPhone, according to estimates from IDC, a research firm.

There have been predictions that the huge volume of Android smartphones being sold would persuade developers to abandon or at least weaken their iPhone efforts by, for example, developing apps first for phones running Android.

In December, Eric Schmidt, the executive chairman of Google, said that six months from then, mobile developers would begin favoring Android app projects over iPhone apps.

“Because ultimately applications vendors are driven by volume and the volume is favored by the open approach Google is taking,” Mr. Schmidt told an audience at a technology conference in Paris.

That six-month mark passed last week. In the interim, the companies behind some well-known iOS apps like Instagram have made Android versions of their software. But as the technology writer and investor M.G. Siegler wrote in a column on TechCrunch last week, Mr. Schmidt’s prediction that developers would begin making Android apps first did not come to pass, at least not the most prominent developers.

Christopher Katsaros, a spokesman for Google, declined to comment for this article.

Developers say it is easier, and therefore less costly, to develop apps for the iPhone than for Android phones, in part because there are far more models of Android phones in use, with different screen sizes, processors and other technologies.

The variations in hardware and software are not insurmountable obstacles, developers say, but performing the testing to ensure that apps run properly on most Android phones adds time and cost.

“Writing apps consistently across all of them is really hard,” said Nat Brown, an independent iOS developer in Seattle who has created a line of children’s apps for the iPhone.

Mr. Brown also said he periodically considered writing Android apps, but had decided against it in part because iPhone users have demonstrated a higher willingness than Android users to pay for apps.

Flurry, a mobile analytics firm, published a report last week that estimated that for every $1 a developer brought in for an application on iOS, he could expect to take in about 24 cents on Android.

“Apple is almost the default first platform you develop for and then you develop for Android,” said Rob Cihra, an analyst at Evercore Partners.

Furthermore, Apple has been far more effective in getting iPhone users to update their phones with the latest version of iOS than Google and its partners have with Android. This makes it easier for iPhone developers to write their apps because there is less variation in the underlying software on the devices.

One other advantage Apple has among developers is the iPad, which has so far maintained its dominance in the tablet category, despite challenges by an assortment of Android tablets. Because the iPhone and iPad use iOS, it is relatively easy for developers to adapt their software to run on Apple’s tablet, significantly expanding the audience of potential customers beyond the iPhone.

It is difficult to say whether Apple’s position with developers will remain strong if Android continues to gobble market share. But various surveys have tried to gauge which smartphones developers plan to write apps for in the near future, and the iPhone often scores very high.

Still, Google is closing the gap between the sheer number of apps for Android, which stands at about 500,000. Earlier this year, Apple said there were 600,000 apps in its App Store.

One occasional source of discontent among Apple’s developers is the greater control that the company exerts over its App Store, for which it takes a more hands-on approach to approving software for distribution than Google does.

Paul Kafasis, the chief executive of Rogue Amoeba Software in Boston, has had a couple of run-ins with Apple over iPhone apps that Apple initially rejected for different reasons. Most recently, Apple objected to a function in an iOS app, Airfoil Speakers Touch, that allowed users to listen to music streamed from a song library on iTunes and other Apple devices.

Mr. Kafasis modified the function in the app, which Apple then allowed to be sold. While he chafes at the gatekeeper function Apple performs, he said he had no plans to develop products for Android.
339 2012-06-11 “We make no apologies,” Mr. Lynch said by telephone on Friday. “We are doing what a newspaper ought to do, which is to take positions. We are very consistent — pro-conservative, pro-business, pro-military — and we are trying to make a newspaper that gets people excited about this city and its future.”

He added: “We totally respect the journalistic integrity of our paper and there is a clear line of demarcation between our editorials and our news. Our editor, Jeff Light, calls the shots.” (Mr. Manchester was traveling in Europe and unavailable for comment.)

Others in San Diego are not so sure. Rob Davis is a senior writer at Voice of San Diego, a Web site covering the city, and has watched as The U-T has become a player rather than observer in civic events. He points out that when officials at the Port of San Diego, a public agency that oversees the land in question, did not warm to The U-T’s big development plan (which it unveiled on its front page), the agency was soon the subject of investigative pieces about its finances. “The U-T is an important institution in this city and you want to see it succeed,” Mr. Davis said, “but there is a very real fear here that it will not be advocating for the public’s good, but the owner’s good instead.”

Many of us grew up in towns where the daily paper was in bed with civic leaders, but the shared interest was generally expressed on the editorial page. Occasionally, appropriate lines of inquiry would be suspiciously ignored in coverage, but the news pages were just that, news.

At The U-T, which was known as The San Diego Union-Tribune when it was owned by the Copley family, that pretense was obliterated from the start. Mr. Manchester was no stranger to politics, having contributed $125,000 in support of Proposition 8, which bans gay marriage in California, and suffering some boycotts at his hotels as a result.

After Mr. Manchester bought the newspaper last November, he brought in Mr. Lynch, a radio executive who, like Mr. Manchester, believed that a new stadium for the Chargers was crucial to the city’s future. In an interview soon after the purchase, Mr. Lynch told Mr. Davis the sports pages should advocate for a new stadium and “call out those who don’t as obstructionists.”

A longtime sports columnist, Tim Sullivan, was skeptical. He noted that the previous stadium deal had not worked out well for the city and wrote that if a new stadium was to be erected, due caution was required.

A week ago Friday, he was brought in to the editor’s office and fired. A huge uproar ensued, with posts on Facebook and Twitter and many calls of protest to the newspaper. Mr. Sullivan has since entered negotiations over his departure and would not discuss the specifics of his firing. But in the days after he was let go, he did comment to a local blog on what he believed was behind his dismissal.

“Mr. Lynch appears to be of a mind to make the stadium happen and bulldoze the opposition or even those who raise questions,” Mr. Sullivan told the Sherman Report, a sports media blog.

Mr. Lynch said his real problem with Mr. Sullivan was that he was not on board with the newspaper’s plan to emphasize multimedia. He said the parties had begun discussions that may lead to a truce. “That door is not closed yet,” Mr. Lynch said. (Mr. Sullivan said on his Facebook page on Thursday night that his employment status had been changed to “on vacation.”)

Mr. Lynch says the newspaper needs to stop acting like one in order to be a viable business. The U-T has begun a television initiative and one of its first moves was to start a talk show that is co-anchored by Scott Kaplan. A former radio personality who once worked for Mr. Lynch, Mr. Kaplan was fired from his sports talk show, according to The U-T, for describing a female television host as a “beast,” an “animal,” a “monster” and a “sasquatch of a woman.”

“That show is embarrassing,” a staff member said of the new U-T talk show, “but then a lot of embarrassing things have gone on around here since they took over.” He declined to be identified, in part because Mr. Sullivan had been openly critical of multimedia initiatives and that did not turn out well for him.

The reporters and others have pointed to the frantic level of promotion for various political candidates as over-the-top and damaging to the paper’s credibility. For instance, The U-T presented a wraparound of a sample ballot for the conservative, pro-development candidates it endorsed on the Sunday before the election and again last Tuesday, the day of the election. On Monday, there was a front-page editorial in support of Carl DeMaio, the candidate for mayor that Mr. Manchester supports.

Mr. Lynch says the only agenda he and Mr. Manchester have is making San Diego a better place, one with a newspaper that has a business path to survival. He’s confident that having a newspaper with skin in the game is part of the solution. (Confident enough to suggest that they may be in the market for other properties, including The Orange County Register, which has been put up for sale.)

In a sense, it’s back to the future for newspapers, to a time when they didn’t make much money but could enrich their owners by advancing their agendas in other areas. But papers were legion then; even midsize American cities supported many varieties — liberal and conservative, morning and afternoon, pro-business and pro-socialist.

In San Diego, there’s a strong weekly, The San Diego Reader, and a great news Web site, Voice of San Diego. But The U-T has the brawn and ubiquity of a daily newspaper. As the only game in town, it seems determined to not just influence the conversation, but control it.
340 2012-06-11 Rajat K. Gupta, a former director of Goldman Sachs accused of leaking secrets about the bank, will not testify at his insider trading trial, according to a letter from his lawyers that was filed with the court on Sunday.      His lawyers' decision...
341 2012-06-11 While the Masters in April heralds the flowering of another golf year, the United States Open lures Americans to the television for a midseason challenge more vicarious in character and charm.     By mid-June, most golfers have hit some balls, pla...
342 2012-06-11 APPLEBAUM--Pearl, 90 of Monroe Township, New Jersey on June 9, 2012. Devoted mother of Nancy and Steven. Loving grandmother and great-grandmother. Service 12:00 noon on Monday at Riverside Memorial Chapel 21 W. Broad St., Mt. Vernon, NY....
343 2012-06-11 Dear Diary:  Most of the winos on the Upper West Side have vanished.  They have been replaced by financial consultants wearing jogging gear and carrying lap dogs. The wino I miss most had a working dog named Bill.       -In the '70s, the wino's mi...
344 2012-06-12 Credit: Erin Baiano for The New York Times
345 2012-06-12 Massachusetts and Utah already had state insurance exchanges before the federal law. Both states are updating their exchanges to meet federal rules.

California was first to pass legislation in 2010 after the health care law was signed.

Washington has been awarded more than $150 million in federal grants for its exchange.
346 2012-06-12 To watch the video, press the play button in the bottom-left corner of the image.

Last year, police officers in stopped and frisked people 685,724 times. Eighty-seven percent of those searches involved blacks or Latinos, many of them young men, according to the .

The practice of has become increasingly controversial, but what is often absent from the debate are the voices of young people affected by such aggressive policing on a daily basis. To better understand the human impact of this practice, we made this film about Tyquan Brehon, a young man who lives in one of the most heavily policed neighborhoods in .

By his count, before his 18th birthday, he had been unjustifiably stopped by the police more than 60 times. On several occasions, merely because he asked why he had been stopped, he was handcuffed, placed in a cell and detained for hours before being released without charges. These experiences were scarring; Mr. Brehon did whatever he could to avoid the police, often feeling as if he were a prisoner in his home.

His fear of the police also set back his education. At one high school he attended, he recoiled at the heavy presence of armed officers and school security agents. “I would do stuff that would get me suspended so I could be, like, completely away from the cops,” he recalled. He would arrive late, cut classes and refuse to wear the school uniform. Eventually, he was expelled.

Mr. Brehon’s life turned around when he transferred to Bushwick Community High School and joined Make the Road New York, a community organizing group that is part of Communities United for Police Reform, a coalition of organizations. Because of his experiences, he now hopes to attend and to become a lawyer, in part so he can help others who are subjected to racial profiling.

Mr. Brehon’s story is just one in what we hope will be a bigger project to examine more closely the impact of the stop-and-frisk policy on this city’s residents, including police officers.
347 2012-06-12 A collection of the first season from 2011 through 2012. Op-Docs is the editorial department’s channel for short opinion documentaries, produced by independent filmmakers. Learn more about Op-Docs and how to submit.
348 2012-06-12 The Olympic Club's Lake Course can be tight and treacherous to navigate, which, Bubba Watson said, will make par at this week's United States Open a good score....
349 2012-06-12 In testimony prepared for a Senate Banking Committee hearing on Wednesday, Jamie Dimon sounded a note of contrition, but also emphasized the strength of the bank....
350 2012-06-12 In a city that’s home to the world’s top-ranked restaurant, what can the Frugal Traveler find to eat?...
351 2012-06-12 Times editor Ray Krueger ran into a big-hitting 24-year-old in his quest to qualify for the United States Open in its national playoffs....
352 2012-06-12 Gina Chon agreed to resign after she admitted violating company policy by showing articles before publication to Brett McGurk, then on the National Security Council staff....
353 2012-06-12 Geetanjali Gupta was articulate in answering questions about the former director of Goldman Sachs and his relationship with Raj Rajaratnam, the fallen hedge fund titan....
354 2012-06-12 While everyone was disappointed with the news Friday that the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness Stakes winner I'll Have Another would be unable to run because of a tendon injury, there is an old show-biz expression that "the show must go on." It di...
355 2012-06-12 Credit: Erin Baiano for The New York Times
356 2012-06-12 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
357 2012-06-12 Backstage at Stella McCartney's fairground-themed resort presentation, held on Monday at a cemetery in the East Village....
358 2012-06-12 The Zappa Family Trust regains control of Frank Zappa's catalog and plans a series of reissues, apparently digital as well as physical....
359 2012-06-12 Prabal Gurung presented his collection on June 11....
360 2012-06-12 The new plans will allow customers to pay monthly fees to share data, voice minutes and text messages across multiple devices, like smartphones, tablets and notebooks....
361 2012-06-12 Gurung applied geometry and his own quirky vision to similar silhouettes this season....
362 2012-06-12 Female baby boomers are also more likely to have financial conversations than men....
363 2012-06-12 What was once the stuff of jokes -- the idea that members of Egypt's old regime would try to shift blame for killing protesters during last year's revolution from themselves to the Islamists who took part in the uprising -- has now become fact....
364 2012-06-12 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
365 2012-06-12 A battery breakthrough for electric cars... perhaps. | Europe struggles to keep contagion out of Italy. | Hopes for job creation, in Ohio's pottery industry.
366 2012-06-12 Apple's tools for iPhone tracking and security can lock up the data on a lost or stolen iPhone - and may help locate a missing mobile....
367 2012-06-12 Las Vegas casinos are turning to electronic dance music in a big way, and journalists return to produce a special election edition of a Greek newspaper that hasn't published since December....
368 2012-06-12 The big news on Monday was Apple's announcement of new products at the opening day of its developers conference in San Francisco....
369 2012-06-12 A defense lawyer for the former Goldman Sachs director Rajat K. Gupta says phone recordings show that David Loeb, a senior Goldman salesman, passed on tips to a hedge fund manager. The judge has ruled that the recording are not admissible as evide...
370 2012-06-12 United Technologies, one of the world's largest makers of aircraft engines, announced on Tuesday that it would seek to raise $1 billion to help finance its $16.5 billion takeover of the Goodrich Corporation....
371 2012-06-12 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
372 2012-06-12 A summary of what's on today's editorial page....
373 2012-06-12 Today's thoroughbreds are genetically engineered for speed and aggression, not the soundness and stamina it takes to win three Grade I races in five weeks....
374 2012-06-12 And while the Heat are still resented in many precincts, they apparently no longer inspire the fear and loathing that shrouded the first year of the James-Wade-Bosh alliance. They are not even favored in this series.

Las Vegas oddsmakers are listing the Oklahoma City Thunder as the favorites to win the championship — at 10-to-17 odds by the sports book Bovada.lv. The Heat are listed at 3 to 2. This is not just about public sentiment, the lingering anti-James backlash, but the tangible sense that the Thunder are simply the better team.

The Thunder have just as much star power, in Kevin Durant, Russell Westbrook and James Harden, but with a superior supporting cast — from the shot-blocking Serge Ibaka to the bruising big man Kendrick Perkins to Derek Fisher, a veteran of five N.B.A. championships with a knack for clutch 3-pointers.

Two years after uniting James, Wade and Bosh, the Heat are still searching for reliable role players, or even a solid starting center. They needed seven games to dispatch the aging Boston Celtics in the Eastern Conference finals, and at one point they trailed the Indiana Pacers in the semifinals (2-1) before winning in six games.

James has put together one of the greatest postseasons in history, averaging 30.8 points, 9.6 rebounds and 5.1 assists while shooting 50.8 percent from the field. But Wade has been uncharacteristically erratic, struggling to score at times against the Pacers and Celtics. Bosh missed nine games over the last two series after straining an abdominal muscle, turning a spotlight on Miami’s glaring lack of depth.

“We’ve dealt with many things in our short time together,” Bosh said, “and the fact that we’re not always the favorite, I think, is a great position to be in. But that really doesn’t matter. We were the favorites last year, and look what happened.”

The Thunder present more than just a momentary obstacle in James’s quest for his first ring. They are a long-term threat to the Heat’s preeminence. Oklahoma City’s core players — Durant, Westbrook, Harden and Ibaka — are 23 or younger. The Thunder are the second-youngest team ever to make the finals, according to Basketball-Reference.com. If the front office can manage the salary cap over the next few years (as Harden and Ibaka come due for extensions), the Thunder might displace the Heat as the league’s most feared team.

For now, the Thunder’s youth could be considered their greatest disadvantage. This is the first trip to the finals for their young stars. Of Oklahoma City’s main rotation players, only Perkins and Fisher have won championships.

But Fisher, who won his titles with the Los Angeles Lakers, said the Thunder had the right mix of youth and veterans, and enough talent and athleticism to overcome the inexperience.

“We’re not here by accident,” he said. “We’re not of the belief that this is an apprenticeship and we’re just here to learn and then maybe next time we’ll figure it out.”

The Thunder earned the home-court advantage in this series with a 47-19 regular-season record (the third best in the league) and by grinding through the most grueling possible path to the finals. Round by round, they defeated the West’s three most recent champions — first the Mavericks (4-0), then the Lakers (4-1) and finally the San Antonio Spurs (4-2). The Spurs had won 20 straight games before the Thunder, after falling behind two games to none, beat them four in a row.

“There really wasn’t no free ride for us this playoffs,” said Perkins, who won a title with the Celtics in 2008. “I think we’re battle-tested and mentally ready.”

If the Thunder are emboldened by their young legs and exuberance, the Heat come hardened and chastened by their failure in 2011, readily admitting that the sting has not faded.

“It’s with me now,” Bosh said. “It never left any of us.”

When he spoke of the Heat’s finals experience, Bosh painted it in dark terms.

“We have experience with the bad part, with the pain and the suffering that comes with it,” he said. “I think that’s something that can really help us as this series goes on.”

Even James, whose bravado and promise of multiple titles alienated legions of fans two years ago, has adopted a softer, more reflective tone. He said he feels “more at ease” now than he did a year ago.

“I played too much to prove people wrong last year,” James said, “instead of just playing my game and doing what needs to be done.”

He added: “At the end of the day, whatever the results happen, I’m going to be satisfied with that. I’m going to be happy with it, because I know I’m going to give it my all, and I won’t leave nothing behind.”
375 2012-06-12 The church still opposes same-sex marriage, and advocates say Mormon bishops still regularly excommunicate openly gay members in some more conservative congregations. Church leaders say that being gay is not itself a sin, but it urges gay members to remain celibate. The church still considers “homosexual relations” a serious transgression that can lead to disciplinary action, along with offenses like heterosexual sex outside marriage, child abuse, abortion and rape.

But the church has softened its tone toward gay members in the wake of protests criticizing its role in supporting California’s gay marriage ban. Church leaders here in Utah have held several meetings with gay rights advocates, and supported a 2009 anti-discrimination ordinance in Salt Lake City that protected people on the basis of sexual orientation.

Among the thousands of faces in the church’s “Meet Mormons” Web site — part of a national advertising campaign aimed at softening its image and showing its diversity — are a few gay members of the church. There’s Boyd from Alaska: “I am gay, Mormon and I believe in Christ!” There’s David (political junkie, huge reader, gay Mormon) and Rob (artist, dog lover, gay).

In 2010, openly gay students at the church-run Brigham Young University in Provo were allowed to set up a gay-straight alliance. In April, they produced a nine-minute YouTube video in which a dozen gay and lesbian Brigham Young students talk about grappling with the loneliness, fear and complications of being young and gay in a religion that prizes traditional families.

“What you are seeing is increased emphasis by church leaders on the need for our members to show sensitivity in this area so people don’t feel rejected, especially by their families,” Eric Hawkins, a spokesman for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, said in an e-mail.

But Mr. Hawkins said there had been “no shift or change in doctrine” on the church’s stance on gay relationships or the role of openly gay Mormons in their congregations. Sunday services are open to gay congregants, but members who want to hold leadership posts “must be living their lives consistent with the Church’s teachings,” Mr. Hawkins said.

It appears that many of the nation’s estimated six million Mormons agree with that position. In a Pew Research Center survey of Mormons conducted last fall, 25 percent said homosexuality should be accepted by society, while 65 percent said it should be discouraged. Fifty-eight percent of all Americans said that society should accept homosexuality, Pew reported in a separate survey.

A few congregations do welcome gay members — an openly gay Mormon named Mitch Mayne even serves in a leadership position at his church in San Francisco — but advocates say that coming out still dislodges many gay Mormons from the church and their families. Reports of gay suicides, high rates of homelessness and drug abuse abound. In a 2011 survey of gay Mormons by researchers at Utah State University, most said their strongest feeling toward the church was sorrow.

“There’s no place for gays and lesbians in the church right now,” said John Dehlin, a semiactive Mormon who has been critical of the church and helped organize the survey. “You have three options: celibacy for life, heterosexual marriage or excommunication.”

But that is beginning to change, said Joanna Brooks, a Mormon and professor at San Diego State University who blogs regularly about religion.

“There is a critical mass of people who want to stay identified with the faith and want it to be better,” Ms. Brooks said. “It’s a significant shift.”

Erika Munson, a mother of five from Sandy, Utah, near the doorstep of the Wasatch Mountains, never planned to become an activist. She felt sympathetic to the gay community, but had no gay family members and always separated her life as a Mormon from her views on gay rights. But she said she was “left shaking” by the church’s advocacy in California’s gay marriage fight, and saddened by years of watching gay teenagers vanish from the church after coming out.

So a few weeks ago, she set up group called Mormons Building Bridges to march in Salt Lake City’s June gay pride parade, and began sending invitations to friends from the church, telling them to wear “church attire” and comfortable shoes. She expected a few dozen people. Then 300 showed up.

Although some who marched that day said they had come to believe in gay marriage, the group was careful not to take a position on the issue, worried about alienating church members who supported greater acceptance of gays and lesbians but stopped well short of gay marriage.

“What our group is working for is to make a space for gay people in the church,” Mrs. Munson said. “There’s so much progress that needs to be made just at that level — to have them feel welcome and feel safe.”

In the living room of her expansive home in Salt Lake City, Ms. Stewart, whose husband runs an investment firm, described the delicate balance in situating her beliefs about gay rights and gay marriage with the church’s outlook. Even as she spoke about the need for a new direction, she was careful not to criticize the church leaders who decide those views.

“You live your life with faith,” she said. “Things are not O.K. right now, but it’s not the end. I value the organization of the church. I value the culture of the church. With faith, I hope things will change.”
376 2012-06-12 Polls conducted last month and last week suggest that voters here overwhelmingly oppose the ballot measure to ban the property tax.

Still, even if the measure here fails on Tuesday, the notion is picking up steam in some Republican circles in other states, including , and .

“No tax should have the power to leave you homeless,” said Jim Cox, a state representative in Pennsylvania who has proposed legislation to eliminate the school property tax in the state where, he said, such taxes have led to residents’ losing homes to sheriff’s sales, entering into reverse or simply moving away.

In a way, North Dakota, though 48th in population among the states, was a logical place for such a movement to brew. While the state’s property tax collections per capita generally fall near the middle among states, the surge in oil production over the past five years, mainly in the western portion of the state, has seen its effects ripple through other parts of life here. The state’s coffers are full, overflowing even. Assessments of home values, especially in some areas, have risen drastically too.

The political mood here, too, leans toward Republicans (who dominate Bismarck), small government, little intrusion and fiscal conservatism. Though opponents to the property tax here received a $12,000 donation in 2010 from the American Tax Reduction Movement, a sister group to the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association, which grew out of ’s Proposition 13, members say the efforts here were largely organic, the result of unhappy property taxpayers getting fed up.

“The same problem kept coming up,” said Charlene Nelson, a homemaker who became a leader of the effort to amend the Constitution, pointing to what she deems the underlying problem with the property tax. “It means all of us are renters — none of us are homeowners.”

In recent years, state officials sent more money to localities to pay for schools in an effort to lower property tax bills. But opponents of the property tax said those efforts did not go nearly far enough, and collected nearly 30,000 signatures on petitions to bring the matter to the ballot.

Those who want to keep the property tax have vastly outraised the opponents, gathering more than $500,000, campaign finance reports show. Though the question is among four on ballots here on Tuesday — including the highly contentious question of whether the should give up its Fighting Sioux nickname — residents here said they had been deluged with information about the property tax measure, on signs, in radio talk shows and through months of debates in school gymnasiums and recreation halls in small towns like Edgeley and Bowman.

For his part, Gov. , a Republican, said he opposed the property tax ban. “It’s mind-boggling, really,” he said, in an interview, of the effects of such a ban. “We’d be changing everything, frankly.”

The notion, he said, that the state has enough surplus to replace property taxes for localities around the state without raising other taxes is false. For starters, he said, much of the state’s benefits from the oil boom are already dedicated legally to particular funds and cannot simply be transferred to support schools, counties, towns, park districts and the like.

Even if the ban fails, North Dakota lawmakers now seem all but certain to tackle broader solutions to the property tax question as early as next year.

“I have to say that we totally understand that North Dakotans are very concerned about their property tax payments,” Mr. Dalrymple said. “You have a tension there, and people say this can’t keep on.”
377 2012-06-12 “Everyone has been overly accommodating,” said Martin, now 40. “The controversy fades, and maybe because in some way, there is an appreciation. I’m just somebody trying to pursue his dreams like anybody else. I’m just trying to play this great game we all love.”

That Martin was back at Olympic was a nearly magical confluence of diligence and destiny. Martin had not played in a bona fide golf competition for six years when he decided to enter the demanding qualifying process for this year’s United States Open. That the event was at Olympic was a motivating factor.

But Martin, who became the golf coach at the University of Oregon shortly after he retired from professional golf in 2006, had almost no recent playing experience.

Martin has Klippel-Trenaunay-Weber syndrome, and while his right leg has not gotten drastically worse, it continues to be painful. He said Monday that 14 years ago he probably expected that his leg would be amputated by 2012.

“But not playing the last six years has been a reprieve for my leg,” he said. “It’s not great, but it’s hanging in there.”

In the qualifying last week, Martin shot back-to-back 69s, scores that were aided considerably in the second round when an errant tee shot that appeared lost was discovered all but hidden in mud just as Martin was heading back to the tee to hit again — with a penalty stroke. He clinched his United States Open spot by one stroke.

“That is when I thought that something was going on here,” Martin said Monday.

The time since has been a whirlwind with thousands of people sending their congratulations, including his former college teammate Tiger Woods, who posted online: “Simply incredible. Ability, attitude and guts. See you at Olympic, Casey.”

Martin joked that it was not long after he qualified that he began to wonder what he had gotten himself into.

“I am very excited to be here,” he said. “But there is a borderline fear factor.

“It’s a great challenge for anyone, let alone a disabled 40-year-old golf coach.”

Looking back on his court case, which reached the United States Supreme Court, Martin says he rarely thinks of the negative reaction his stance attracted.

“I try not to focus on it too much and I don’t take it personally,” he said. “I realize that there is another side to my story and people can certainly — we can agree to disagree. But there’s a lot of people that are pulling for me.”

If Martin still feels stung by the overwhelming chorus of golf voices who lined up in dissent against him, he does not show it.

“Life is too short for that,” he said.

Instead, on Monday, Martin told stories about gambling games with Woods on the Stanford golf team and how Woods once had to give him a check for $192. Martin had a copy of it made, which his mother put in Casey’s scrapbook, and then he cashed it. He added that he might play a practice round with Woods on Tuesday and give him a chance to win his money back — or not.

“I know that it’s tough to get that wallet out,” Martin said. “That’s what I’ve been told.”

More than anything, Martin was clearly happy to be back, and with no regrets, even if his professional career never led to the PGA Tour victories or the on-course acclaim some in golf predicted for him.

“I am here at 40,” he said. “Even though I’m not playing for a living, I’m still playing. So I am grateful for that.”

TEEN ENTERS U.S. OPEN Paul Casey’s withdrawal on Monday because of a shoulder injury paved the way for a milestone at the United States Open. The alternate taking Casey’s place is Andy Zhang, a 14-year-old Florida resident of Chinese descent who will become the youngest competitor in the Open since World War II. KAREN CROUSE
378 2012-06-12 KIEV, Ukraine (AP) — Andriy Shevchenko is determined to turn Euro 2012 into a farewell performance to remember, and in his first game he put on quite a show.

Shevchenko one-upped Sweden’s star striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic, scoring two great headers to give co-host Ukraine a 2-1 win in their opening match.

“I feel that I am 10 years younger today,” said Shevchenko, 35. “I think that it’s a great day for Ukraine. This is a historical win.”

After Ibrahimovic had given Sweden the lead in the 52nd minute, Shevchenko responded by heading in the equalizer three minutes later. He scored the winner on another header in the 62nd.

Sweden pressed hard for an equalizer in the last 20 minutes, but Ibrahimovic’s hard swerving shot was saved by Andriy Pyatov.
379 2012-06-12 The title of the Irish novelist Colm Toibin’s nonfiction book, “New Ways to Kill Your Mother: Writers and Their Families,” is so vivid that it feels churlish to point out that a more accurate one would be something like: “Side Work: Recent Book Reviews, Essays and Odd Bits.”

Compiling this material as “New Ways to Kill Your Mother” is somewhat like titling the contents of a jukebox “Love the One You’re With: Inquiries Along the Sexual Highway.” It’s brazen. But Mr. Toibin mostly gets away with it. He’s an intense and moody thinker about books and writers, and these short pieces have subterranean echoes.

Mr. Toibin is best known for novels that include “The Master” (2004), about Henry James, and “Brooklyn” (2009). He’s also written plays, books of travel writing and a volume about the lives of fellow gay artists. His criticism appears in The London Review of Books and The New York Review of Books, where much of this book’s contents first appeared. He’s an old-fashioned literary man o’ war.

He’s known, as well, for a certain asceticism. He writes in the most uncomfortable chair imaginable. “It keeps me awake,” he has said. The chapters in “New Ways to Kill Your Mother” share that asceticism. They’re pared down and plain-spoken. Mr. Toibin does not own a high style. What he does own is vast understanding of fiction and its uses, and a mind that processes novels and ideas like a rumbling supercomputer.

The book stalks its themes through proddings of the work and lives of writers from W. B. Yeats, Samuel Beckett and Roddy Doyle (to name a few of the Irish) through Jorge Luis Borges, Tennessee Williams and John Cheever. In one chapter Mr. Toibin compares the writing of James Baldwin and Barack Obama, men who grew up without fathers and learned to, he says, “make it up as they went along.”

His essential point, driven home in an essay about all the motherless heroes and heroines in the novels of Henry James and Jane Austen, is that “mothers get in the way of fiction; they take up the space that is better filled by indecision, by hope, by the slow growth of a personality.” To put it another way, he writes, “The novel is a ripe form for orphans.”
380 2012-06-12 Since the introduction of the iPhone, Apple has relied on Google’s data to drive its maps software. Its abandonment of Google Maps underscores the heightening tension between the two companies. Though they were once collaborators, their relationship gradually eroded after Google released Android. Now Android is the top mobile operating system in the world, and the two companies compete directly in several markets.

To catch up with Google, Apple acquired three mapping companies over the last three years: Placebase, Poly9 and C3 Technologies. It is also using map data from TomTom, a Dutch manufacturer of navigation systems.

Google has been building up its mapping service since 2005. Just last week it held an event to show it was adding 3-D maps to Google Earth, its service that shows satellite imagery. It also said it would allow Android users to download and store maps on their devices so they are viewable without an Internet connection — a feature that Apple’s mapping software still lacks.

Apple can use the leverage of its millions of customers to help it catch up. The company said that its iPhone customers will be anonymously collecting traffic information for its database. “That should give them tens of millions of iPhones that are going to act as traffic probes in the field,” said Ross Rubin, an analyst with the NPD Group who attended Apple’s presentation. “They have the scale to be competitive and make that work.” Google makes use of similar data from Android phones.

Other features in the new mobile operating system, iOS 6, include improvements to Siri, the voice-activated virtual assistant in the latest iPhone. While Siri initially worked with a limited set of Internet services — allowing users to, say, search for restaurants through Yelp — it will now let them use voice commands to search for sports statistics, make restaurant reservations using OpenTable and look up showtimes for movies. In some ways, Apple is using Siri to sidestep Google by reducing the need to consult Google’s search engine.

Siri also has a new function, Eyes Free, that will allow car drivers to communicate with it by pushing a button on their car steering wheels. General Motors, BMW and Toyota are among the auto manufacturers that have agreed to put such a button in their vehicles.

Apple also said it had reached an agreement with Facebook that more deeply weaves the social network into Apple’s devices, allowing people to share photos on Facebook, for example, without having to open a separate Facebook app. The new features in the operating system will become available for iPhones, iPads and the iPod Touch when iOS 6 is released this fall.

The Mac operating system Apple first unveiled in February, OS X Mountain Lion, borrows some features from Apple’s mobile products. A new feature in Mountain Lion, which will be released in July as a $20 download, is Power Nap; it will allow computers to fetch software updates, e-mails and other data from the Internet while the machines are in low-power “sleep” mode.

Apple highlighted features in Mountain Lion for Chinese customers, signaling its growing interest in China, where its iPhones have sold especially well. The new Mac operating system will be easier to set up with Chinese e-mail services and improve Chinese character recognition, among other advances.
381 2012-06-12 “It fills in details to a picture that we already knew was quite ugly, and these details very much underscore that,” said , an economist at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities who served as an adviser to Vice President “It makes clear how devastating this has been for the middle class.”

Given the scale of those losses, consumer spending has remained surprisingly resilient. The survey also illuminates where the money is coming from: American families saved less and only slowly repaid debts.

The share of families saving anything over the previous year fell to 52 percent in 2010 from 56.4 percent in 2007. Other government statistics show that total savings have increased since 2007, suggesting that a smaller group of families is saving more money, while a growing number manage to save nothing.

The survey also found a shift in the reasons that families set aside money, underscoring the lack of confidence that is weighing on the economy. More families said they were saving money as a precautionary measure, to make sure they had enough liquidity to meet short-term needs. Fewer said they were saving for , or for education, or for a down payment on a home.

The report underscored the limited progress that households had made in reducing the amounts that they owed to lenders. The share of households reporting any debt declined by 2.1 percentage points over the last three years, but 74.9 percent of households still owed something, and the median amount did not change.

The decline in reported incomes could have increased the weight of those debts, tying up a larger share of families’ take-home pay. But one of the rare benefits of the crisis, historically lower interest rates, has helped to offset that effect. Families also have been able to reduce debt payments by refinancing into with longer terms and deferring repayment of and other obligations.

The survey also confirmed that Americans are shifting the kinds of debts they carry. The share of families with credit card debt declined by 6.7 percentage points to 39.4 percent, and the median balance fell 16.1 percent to $2,600.

Families also reduced the number of credit cards that they carried, and 32 percent of families said they had no cards, up from 27 percent in 2007.

Conversely, the share of families with education-related debt rose to 19.2 percent in 2010 from 15.2 percent in 2007. The Fed noted that education made up a larger share of the average family’s obligations than loans to buy automobiles for the first time in the history of the survey.

The cumulative statistics concealed large disparities in the impact of the crisis.

Families with incomes in the middle 60 percent of the population lost a larger share of their wealth over the three-year period than the wealthiest and poorest families.

One basic reason for this disproportion is that the wealth of the middle class is mostly in housing, and the median amount of home equity dropped to $75,000 in 2010 from $110,000 in 2007. And while other forms of wealth have recovered much of the value lost in the crisis, housing prices have hardly budged.

Those middle-income families also lost a larger share of their income. The earnings of the median family in the bottom 20 percent of the income distribution actually increased from 2007 to 2010, in part because of the expansion of government aid programs during the . Wealthier families, which derive more income from investments, were also cushioned against the recession.

The data does provide the latest indication, however, that the recession reduced in the , at least temporarily. The average income of the wealthiest families fell much more sharply than the median, indicating that some of those at the very top of the ladder slipped down at least a few rungs.

Ranking American families by income, the top 10 percent of households still earned an average of $349,000 in 2010.

The average net worth of the same families was $2.9 million.
382 2012-06-12 The chronic issues, including fiscal imbalances and deteriorating economies in the euro zone, remain to be addressed, he said, although he pointed to a growing sense of urgency among European Union officials as at least one reason for optimism.

But investors on Monday were decidedly pessimistic about Spain, where a surge in stocks collapsed; government borrowing costs fell, then spiked; and the cost to insure its debt against default rose.

The yield on Spain’s 10-year bonds jumped 0.30 percentage point, to 6.466 percent. And the 10-year bonds of Italy, whose mountainous national debt continues to concern investors, rose 0.26 percentage point to 6.004 percent.

The Madrid benchmark index fell 0.5 percent, giving up early gains that took it more than 5 percent higher. The Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue chips, fell 0.3 percent, while the FTSE 100 index in London was down 0.05 percent.

In the United States, the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index was down 1.3 percent, or 16.73 points, at 1,308.93, and the Dow Jones industrial average closed down 1.1 percent at 12,411.23. Financial stocks were the hardest hit of the S.& P.’s sectors, falling about 0.9 percent in late afternoon trading. The Nasdaq fell 1.7 percent to 2,809.73.

And at midday Tuesday in Asian markets, including Tokyo and Hong Kong, stocks were down about 1 percent.

Safer investments gained momentum, in spite of ultralow interest rates. Germany’s 10-year bond fell, and the Treasury’s benchmark 10-year note yield fell to 1.59 percent, from 1.63 percent late Monday.

The approaching Greek vote led President Obama, whose re-election chances may hinge on getting the European crisis under control, to urge European leaders last week to move quickly on the Spanish bailout. World leaders will meet June 18 and 19 in Mexico for a Group of 20 summit meeting, just a day after the Greek election. In addition, European Union leaders will meet at the end of the month to discuss longer-term measures to address the crisis.

On the flash point of Greece, Mr. Wattret said, “The uncertainty associated with this election and its consequences is very high.” He added, “You would hope there was a contingency plan in place to deal with those consequences.”

As for Spain, investors are concerned that its borrowing costs could continue to rise because the banking bailout adds to its debt burden, and holders of its current debt could take a back seat to the rescue fund that would supply the banking bailout money. The deal could mean the new debt is considered “senior” to existing bonds, though the mechanics of the bailout have not yet been determined.

Spain’s government is fighting a financial and economic crisis on several fronts. The country has Europe’s highest unemployment rate, at 24.3 percent, and the European Commission recently forecast that Spain would be the only euro economy still in recession next year. Madrid is struggling to meet its budget deficit targets and impose stricter discipline upon its regions.

Jonathan Loynes, the chief European economist at Capital Economics, said questions remained about whether Spain would still require a government bailout and whether the full extent of its banking losses had been uncovered.

The economic environment of “sky-high unemployment and still-falling property prices hardly bodes well for banks’ future profitability,” he wrote in a research commentary.

Spain received a blow to its creditworthiness last Thursday when Fitch Ratings downgraded the country’s debt by three notches, to BBB from A, leaving it just above junk status. On Monday, Fitch downgraded two Spanish banks, Banco Santander and its British arm, and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, in a move that “mirrors” the sovereign rating.

“They reflect similar concerns to those that have affected the Spanish sovereign rating, in particular, that Spain is forecasted to remain in recession through the remainder of this year and 2013, compared to the previous expectation that the economy would benefit from a mild recovery in 2013 which directly affects the banks’ volumes of activities in Spain,” the agency said.

Weyman Gong, the principal and chief investment strategist at Signature, an investment firm, said, “The European crisis is going to be prolonged for a couple of years.”

While Spain’s financial troubles were well known, the 100 billion euros committed to the banking bailout was far above the 40 billion euros the International Monetary Fund estimated late Friday, but even that failed to instill confidence.

“That means the problem may be bigger than people had expected,” Mr. Gong said.
383 2012-06-12 A popular class of drugs used to treat Type 2 diabetes may increase the risk of vision problems, a new study suggests, underlining the importance of regular eye exams for anyone with diabetes.     The study is one of the largest to investigate vis...
384 2012-06-12 News that a Massachusetts man suffered severe burns while using a backyard grill -- just after applying sunscreen spray -- has raised new fears about sunscreen products. But dermatologists and burn experts called it a freak occurrence caused not b...
385 2012-06-12 It was not enough. And it may never be enough.     The euro zone's offer of $125 billion to bail out Spanish banks over the weekend was hailed by finance ministers and officials across Europe as a masterstroke. Germany's finance minister, Wolfgang...
386 2012-06-12 The federal judge overseeing the insider trading trial of Rajat K. Gupta made it clear from the outset that he would limit evidence related to the defendant's extensive charitable works and humanitarian acts.     ''If Mother Teresa were here and c...
387 2012-06-12 The federal judge overseeing the insider trading trial of Rajat K. Gupta made it clear from the outset that he would limit evidence related to the defendant's extensive charitable works and humanitarian acts.     ''If Mother Teresa were here and c...
388 2012-06-12 People take all sorts of things from the workplace: pens, paper, maybe a stapler now and again, but what about a grand piano?     The principal of a city adult-education center in the Bronx admitted to doing just that....
389 2012-06-13 Many of us want to keep our children engaged over the summer. But how much is too much to prevent "summer slide"?...
390 2012-06-13 What can Mormons Building Bridges, who marched in solidarity at the Salt Lake City gay pride parade earlier this month, learn from the history of Mormons for E.R.A.?...
391 2012-06-13 Dick Clark Productions, the 55-year-old company that produces the Golden Globe awards show and the New Year's Eve broadcast created by the company's late founder, is exploring a sale of itself, people briefed on the matter said on Wednesday....
392 2012-06-13 The Bloomberg administration plans to provide $100 million in financing to help buildings switch to cleaner heating oils....
393 2012-06-13 This week on The Times's weekly technology show, Verizon Wireless unveils a cross-platform plan for data sharing, Apple and Google fight over maps and an increasing number of cities adopt new parking meter technologies....
394 2012-06-13 Financial advisers will answer personal finance questions online on Thursday from 1 to 3 p.m. Eastern time....
395 2012-06-13 The English soccer club is considering listing in the United States instead of Singapore, according to people with knowledge of the matter....
396 2012-06-13 Verizon Wireless unveils a cross-platform plan for data sharing. | Apple and Google fight over maps. | An increasing number of cities adopt new parking meter technologies.
397 2012-06-13 Mitt Romney told a group of business leaders that the Obama administration had pursued a series of “anti-investment, anti-business, anti-jobs” policies and was responsible for the tepid pace of the recovery....
398 2012-06-13 A researcher from Amnesty International describes a pattern of violence in which Syria's government uses overwhelming force to subdue restive areas of the country....
399 2012-06-13 The Goldman Sachs chief also throws cold water on suggestions that it might be time for him to retire: "I am 57. What am I going to do with the other 60 years of my life?"...
400 2012-06-13 The Congressional testimony of JPMorgan Chase's chief executive, Jamie Dimon, indicates that the bank's risk models are central to understanding the circumstances that led to its multibillion-dollar trading loss....
401 2012-06-13 A flirting app is rocked by child rape cases. | Jamie Dimon's fall from being 'America's Banker.' | Eduardo Porter on why women still earn less than men.
402 2012-06-13 Whether or not Doug O' Neill and Paul Reddam scratched I'll Have Another out of concern for his well-being or concern for his stud value doesn't matter because the horse has benefited from the decision....
403 2012-06-13 The Flyover feature of Apple's mapping app for its phones and tablets inspires a reader to extol its virtues....
404 2012-06-13 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
405 2012-06-13 Microsoft Word has plenty of stylish document templates to choose from, but you can also make your own....
406 2012-06-13 It takes a creative and determined buyer to purchase a small business in today's lending environment....
407 2012-06-13 Philipp M. Hildebrand, who will oversee BlackRock's institutional client relationships outside the United States, stepped down from the Swiss National Bank in January after doubts were raised about currency trades he and his wife made in 2011....
408 2012-06-13 And yet, critics are noting that any upside from the arrangement will go to the banks and their investors. The potential downside will be the Spanish people’s to bear.

“Unfortunately Spain didn’t manage to reach one of its main goals in the negotiations, which was to have Europe bear part of the risk of rescuing the financial sector, without letting it fall instead directly onto the shoulders of the Spanish taxpayer,” said Luis Garicano, a Spanish economist who teaches at the London of School Economics. “Ultimately, those who lent to our financial system were the banks and insurance companies of Northern Europe, which should bear the consequences of these decisions.”

The full bailout loan would add 10 percentage points to Spain’s debt, raising it to about 90 percent of gross domestic product this year.

And Fitch, the credit rating agency that downgraded Spain’s government debt nearly to junk status last week, warned Tuesday, that even if Spain used only 60 billion euros of the bailout loan, that would put Spain’s debt “on a trajectory to peak at 95 percent of G.D.P. in 2015.” As recently as April, Luis de Guindos, the economy minister, had forecast that debt would rise to 78 percent of G.D.P. this year.

On Tuesday, despite the bailout plan, Fitch downgraded the credit ratings of 18 Spanish banks. That included Bankia, the troubled mortgage lender the government nationalized in early May.

Some analysts are questioning the rush by European finance ministers to push for Spain to accept a bailout before Greek elections on Sunday. Those elections could create deeper turmoil for the euro zone.

“The Europeans wanted to put a firewall between Greece and Spain, but they’ve accelerated things in a way that doesn’t at all give confidence to the markets,” said Xavier Sala-í-Martin, an economics professor at Columbia University. Instead, he said, the deal “leaves the impression that everything was just improvised rather than planned properly.”

Until last weekend, in fact, Mr. Rajoy’s government had resisted formally requesting a rescue package, saying it wanted first to establish exactly how much money was needed to keep its troubled banks afloat.

Madrid had already grossly underestimated the problems at Bankia when it seized the mortgage lender last month after giving it a 4.5 billion euro cash infusion. Less than two weeks later, the bank’s overseers said it would need an additional 19 billion euros ($23.88 billion) of new capital — a declaration that unsettled the markets and threatened to turn a steady outflow of investor money from Spanish banks into a torrent.

Two consulting firms hired by the government to conduct stress-test audits of the Spanish banking industry, Roland Berger and Oliver Wyman, are not scheduled to present their findings until June 21. Another four consulting firms are auditing the 14 largest Spanish financial institutions, with those results not expected before the end of July.

Still, the International Monetary Fund on Friday evening in Washington, ahead of a release scheduled for Monday, published its assessment of Spanish banks, providing a rationale for the weekend rescue deal. The I.M.F. said that Spanish banks would need at least 37 billion euros in extra capital. The European finance ministers decided to lend out nearly three times that amount.

“Everybody moved too fast, based on too little information,” Mr. Sala-í-Martin said. “The I.M.F. report comes out looking a little bit superficial, and certainly can’t be used to conclude exactly how much money needs to be put on the table.”

One thing the I.M.F. report did, however, is split Spanish banks into different risk categories, which in itself has fueled another debate within Spain’s banking industry. Some of the best-situated commercial banks are now resisting receiving any of the European loans.

Spain and its European partners have not yet drawn up a memorandum of understanding for the deal. Many basic aspects of the loan also remain under discussion, even though Mr. de Guindos, the Spanish economy minister, has already said that Spain will receive “very favorable” terms for the European loan.

Among the few certainties is that the emergency loan will be channeled to the banks through the Fund for Orderly Bank Restructuring, which Spain set up in 2009 and has already used to wipe out the losses of some smaller collapsed banks.

The Spanish deal comes at an awkward time because Europe is in transition to a new emergency funding program, making it uncertain exactly how and when the money will be disbursed to Spain. Some holders of Spanish bonds are worried that Europe’s loan will be given seniority over existing government debt. The new fund, known as the European Stability Mechanism, goes into effect next month and guarantees that its creditors have preferred status to other bondholders.

And even though Madrid obtained a much cheaper European lifeline for Spain’s troubled banks than it could have raised on the debt markets, opposition politicians are blaming Mr. Rajoy for letting the banking crisis spin out of control in the first place.

Mr. Rajoy, however, has turned down calls to answer such criticism before Parliament. His next scheduled appearance there is in the second week of July.

“What is there to make of somebody who has enough time to watch a soccer match but not to appear before Parliament?” asked Mr. Sala-í-Martin, the Spanish economist.

It is a view shared by many Spaniards.

“I don’t understand whether such a rescue will really save the banks, but what I do know is that the only ones who will be forced to tighten their belt again will be ordinary taxpayers,” Cristina Senac Amigo, a 42-year-old hairdresser, said Tuesday.

“And if you’re telling your people to prepare for a disastrous year, you don’t then leave to watch a game — however much we all love soccer and want Spain to win.”
409 2012-06-13 “I have to go back tomorrow and watch film and see how I can get better,” Durant said, a sentiment that should send chills through the Miami locker room.

The Thunder were faster, more assertive and more efficient in the second half, outscoring the Heat by 58-40. They beat them in the paint (56-40) and in fast-break points (24-4).

Durant was steady, smooth and spectacular, finishing with 36 points while outdueling LeBron James (30 points), the three-time most valuable player. James went 11 for 24 from the field and scored just two field goals in the fourth quarter while a boisterous crowd bathed Durant in chats of “M.V.P.” Russell Westbrook shook off a rough start and finished with 27 points, 11 assists and 8 rebounds.

“Those two guys are All-Stars for a reason,” James said. “You can’t stop them. You just try to limit them.”

James and Dwyane Wade typically present that same daunting challenge, but they were only the third and fourth best players on the floor Tuesday. Wade scored 19 points but was 7 for 19 from the field and took a testy stance on the podium afterward when asked about his continued postseason struggles.

“Just doing whatever it takes to win the ballgame, not necessarily sitting up here worrying about scoring 30 points,” Wade said. “I know that’s going to make you guys feel better. I’m all about winning.”

Game 2 will be played here Thursday night.

In this championship-or-bust year, the weight of expectations seems to be irritating every nerve among the Heat’s stars. They have now lost four straight games in the finals, counting the last three losses to the Dallas Mavericks last June.

This is the Thunder’s first finals appearance since the franchise relocated from Seattle, and the first time any of Oklahoma City’s young stars have been this close to a championship. The mantra in the past few days has been consistent, however: They would treat every practice, every film session and every minute of the series as if it were just another basketball game.

“Nothing changes,” said Thunder Coach Scott Brooks, who is also making his finals debut as a head coach. “It’s basketball.”

Miami led for the first 35 minutes of the game, by as many as 13 points in the second quarter.

But the Thunder kept their poise, kept charging and pushed their way to their first lead, 74-73, on Westbrook’s 3-point play late in the third quarter.

Westbrook powered past Udonis Haslem, then pushed a layup through Mike Miller’s foul, whooping to the baseline fans after scoring. His free throw gave Oklahoma City a 74-73 lead with 16.4 seconds left and gave Westbrook 12 points in the quarter. The Thunder never trailed again.

As for patience, the Thunder showed it in abundance on an early fourth-quarter possession, when it seemed like every player passed the ball twice before Derek Fisher hit Thabo Sefolosha for a wide-open layup.

“They keep on coming,” Heat Coach Erik Spoelstra said. “They’re relentless. They beat us at their game and beat us in a game that’s very similar to us when we’re playing well.”

The Heat easily controlled the first half, a product of the Thunder’s early turnover troubles and Miami’s hot 3-point shooting. The Thunder survived the early onslaught, found their stride in the second quarter and closed the gap to 54-47 by halftime.

Chris Bosh scored 10 points and again played off the bench, a role he assumed in Game 5 of the Eastern Conference finals, after returning from an abdominal injury. Spoelstra instead stuck with Shane Battier, a move that paid early dividends when Battier quickly hit three 3-pointers as Miami raced to a double-digit lead.

But Spoelstra invited criticism with his other moves Tuesday. He opened the game with James guarding center Kendrick Perkins instead of Durant. And he kept his rotation unusually tight, playing just six players for extended minutes, while using two others (Miller and Joel Anthony) for a combined 12 minutes.

“Because of circumstances, I had to shorten the rotation,” Spoelstra said, although he refused to say what those circumstances were or whether any of his reserves were injured. When asked specifically if certain players were unavailable, he said, “The next game I’ll be able to go a little bit deeper.”

Durant scored the Thunder’s first 8 points, including back-to-back 3-pointers, but his co-stars had a tougher time finding their rhythm. Westbrook and James Harden combined to miss 8 of their first 10 shots. Fisher and Serge Ibaka, who are not normally counted on for scoring, picked up the slack.

After the Heat pushed the lead to 13, Fisher responded with 5 straight transition points — a layup and a 3-pointer. Harden then hit his first 3-pointer, and Ibaka scored 6 straight points for the Thunder.

The victory marked the fourth time in this playoff run that the Thunder have overcome a double-digit deficit.

“It took us a couple minutes to get the nervousness out of us and the jitters out of it,” Durant said.

No road team has won Game 1 of the finals since 2004, when the Detroit Pistons beat the Los Angeles Lakers in the opener and went on to win the championship.
410 2012-06-13 Voters in North Dakota on Tuesday rejected a constitutional amendment to abolish the property tax, turning aside arguments by advocates of the measure who say the tax has proved inconsistent and is in conflict with the basic concept of property ownership.

The result, which showed North Dakotans overwhelmingly opposing a property tax ban in unofficial returns, ended those advocates’ immediate hopes of making North Dakota the first in the nation to take such a step.

There, a powerful coalition of groups, including business leaders and public workers, strongly opposed the idea and raised significantly more money than the other side to spread a message that ending the property tax would mean chaos in the state capital, Bismarck, an increase in other taxes and an end to most decision making by local city councils and county boards.

Though the property tax ban failed, state lawmakers said they had grasped the depth of residents’ frustrations and were all but certain to tackle concerns about unfair property tax exemptions and rising assessments and tax bills.

Residents gathered thousands of signatures to bring the question to the ballot, and the state’s political leaders say they plan to draw up changes in the coming months.

On another ballot measure in the state, North Dakotans voted to allow the retirement of a nickname, Fighting Sioux, for sports teams connected to the University of North Dakota, unofficial results showed.
411 2012-06-13 Liposuction, generally considered the most popular form of cosmetic surgery, removes fat from just beneath the skin, but to avoid regaining fat of an even more harmful variety, a new study suggests, people need to exercise....
412 2012-06-13 the nation’s poorest city — laid off 110 teachers last week, along with hundreds of other employees. As elementary students watched in shock, many of their favorite teachers were pulled out of an assembly one by one and given the bad news by district officials, The Reading Eagle reported.

The layoffs will mean larger classes and an end to public prekindergarten in the city. Many special-education students will lose their mentors. A city where only 8 percent of the residents have a bachelor’s degree (compared with the national average of 28 percent) will fall further behind, largely because ’s Republican governor, Tom Corbett, chose not to find state money to replace $900 million in federal aid that ran out after the stimulus expired. Instead, he further drained his public coffers by cutting business by $250 million this year.

Across the country, many states like Pennsylvania that happily accepted stimulus money to pay for existing employees are laying off those workers now that Congress has turned off the spigot. Over the last three years, at least 700,000 state and local government employees have lost their jobs, including teachers, sanitation workers and public safety personnel, contributing a full percentage point to the unemployment rate.

That seems to be just fine with , who, like many Republicans, does not consider a job to be economically significant unless it is in the private sector. Last week, he attacked for proposing to help states hire more teachers and other workers, saying the president doesn’t understand that Americans don’t want to hire “more firemen, more policemen, more teachers.” Only right-wing ideologues make that distinction; most Americans know driving a bus or picking up trash is just as important economically as working in a big-box store.

Mr. Romney tried to retreat from those comments on Monday, saying that local-government hiring was not a federal issue, but obviously it is. The federal government provided about 10 percent of K-12 education budgets before the stimulus, and that share increased in the last three years. The stimulus money helped save 400,000 education jobs. Since the stimulus began in 2009, Washington has provided more than a third of state budgets, supporting as many as half-a-million other jobs, but that wasn’t enough to prevent layoffs, which have only increased since the money began running out.

There have been at least 100,000 education employees laid off nationwide in the last three years; the White House puts the figure at 250,000. has lost 32,000 teacher jobs — 11 percent of the work force. Pennsylvania laid off nearly 9,000 teachers and other school workers last year, largely because of Governor Corbett’s cuts.
413 2012-06-13 LAGOS, Nigeria — The ordeal of flying in Nigeria begins with the chaotic crowds waving wads of cash who surround ticket agents in sweltering terminals lacking air-conditioning.

Then comes the surge toward the overwhelmed clerk who handles check-in.

Getting onto the plane itself can seem to be an accomplishment, given the lack of audible announcements, working signboards or uniformed employees with knowledge of just how long the inevitable delay will last.

But it is only when a passenger is settled into the aging jetliner that the real adventure begins.

Air travel here can be a routine experience, but one that exists on the edge of catastrophe, as the plane crash last week in Lagos underscored. How a shiny airliner full of successful Nigerians — all week news reports detailed the accomplishments of various high-ranking civil servants and ingenious entrepreneurs — ended up a mass of charred wreckage in the mud of a working-class neighborhood pointed up the worst nightmares of every traveler in this country so full of both dynamism and dysfunction.

Decades back, planes crashed so regularly that many Nigerians stuck to the dangerous roads to get from here to, say, Abuja or Port Harcourt or Kano. But the government closed the airlines of rogue operators and warned the rest that shortcuts were not allowed. The reputation of the country’s aviation industry improved, experts say, to the point that United States officials in 2010 gave Nigeria’s carriers Category 1 status, the highest safety endorsement.

Then the crash on June 3 of a Dana Air flight from Abuja, the capital, which killed all 153 people aboard as well as an unknown number of people on the ground, raised all the questions again. The anxiety surrounding Nigerian air travel continued on Friday night, when the runway lights failed at Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport in Abuja, forcing the diversion of some flights and leaving passengers stranded.
414 2012-06-13 Mickelson also knows that head-to-head he has bettered Woods in their last five pairings dating to the final round of the 2007 Deutsche Bank Championship. Over all, in 30 meetings, Woods and Mickelson have played to a draw: 13-13-4.

“When we started playing together, I don’t know what it was exactly, but I didn’t play my best,” Mickelson said. “And the last five years or so I’ve been able to focus clearly when we play. I’ve been able to enjoy the challenge of playing with him and I’ve always enjoyed his company.”

Woods, in a news conference that was — for a change — longer than Mickelson’s, frankly and patiently answered several questions with insightful responses. But on the subject of Mickelson he did not have much to say. He remarked, for example, that he has played more often with Ernie Els and Vijay Singh, with Mickelson the third most common.

“For us to get that pairing this year is exciting, I think for everyone,” Woods said.

The highlight of Woods’s news conference was his vow, once again, that he had time to break Jack Nicklaus’s record of 18 major tournament victories.

“Well, Jack did it at 46, right?” the 36-year-old Woods said, referring to Nicklaus’s final major victory in the 1986 Masters. “So I’ve got 10 years. Watson almost pulled it off at 59. It can be done. We can play for a very long time. And that’s the great thing about staying in shape and lifting weights and being fit is that the playing careers have extended.

“Look how many guys are 50-plus still playing out here,” Woods continued. “Guys are extending their careers and playing for a lot longer than they used to. Most of the guys used to shut it down in their early 40s. But like Vijay, he won almost 30 events, just in his 40s alone.”

Woods played a practice round Tuesday with his former college teammate Casey Martin, who plays while riding in a golf cart, a right Martin earned by suing the PGA of America 14 years ago.

“It’s great to see him again and to see how much fun he is having,” Woods said of Martin, who has a rare circulatory condition in his right leg that makes it difficult for him to walk long distances. “He is in a good place. He’s happy.”

MAJOR WIN, MAJOR CHANGES The defending champion Rory McIlroy called the last 12 months “fantastic” even as he acknowledged that being a major champion had brought distractions and demands that he still strives to manage. “It’s about finding the right balance,” he said. “And it’s something I still feel like I’m learning to do — getting enough practice with sponsor commitments and media mixed in. And you have to do something besides golf. But I’m not complaining; I’m happy to be doing what I’m doing.”

Asked how his life has changed in the last year, McIlroy said, “I’m viewed differently by the golfing public and maybe more recognized outside of golf now because of that win.”

He added: “Hopefully it didn’t change me as a person. It has given me a lot of self-belief knowing that I’ve won one of these before and can go do it again.”
415 2012-06-13 This does not mean there can be no systematic risk-sharing between the states of Europe. But for that to happen, the countries should first form a common nation, with a constitution, a common legal superstructure, a monopoly on power to ensure obedience to the law and a common army for external defense.

Otherwise, there is nothing to counter the strong centrifugal forces created by redistribution schemes, which would inevitably lead to political eruptions that would threaten the stability of the Continent. The European Union has enjoyed a long period of stability because it abstained from sizable interregional redistribution. This period would end if we redistributed incomes or debt without creating a United States of Europe.

Unfortunately, not one of these conditions is met in Europe today and won’t be in the foreseeable future, because the euro zone countries, above all France, are unwilling to give up sufficient sovereignty.

Even a European nation, however, should not socialize debt, a lesson demonstrated by the United States in the 19th century.

When Secretary of the Treasury Alexander Hamilton socialized the states’ war debt after the Revolutionary War, he raised the expectation of further debt socialization in the future, which induced the states to over-borrow. This resulted in political tensions in the early 19th century that severely threatened the stability of the young nation.

It took the experience of eight states and territories going bankrupt in the 1830s and 1840s for the United States to shed socialization. Today no one suggests bailing out California, which is nearly bankrupt but is expected to find its own solutions.

Criticism of bailouts in general does not mean, however, that Europe should eschew immediate help to crisis-stricken southern European countries. While help to avoid insolvency is dangerous, help to overcome brief liquidity crises is justified. The European Economic Advisory Group, an international think tank, has proposed providing liquidity help in the first two years of a crisis, with selective defaults according to maturity and socialization of excessive losses thereafter.

We are, however, already in the fifth year of generous liquidity help to Europe’s uncompetitive members. Since late 2007, the European Central Bank has helped with an international shift of refinancing credit, also known as Target credit, from the core euro states to the periphery, to which the German Bundesbank has contributed $874 billion. Greece’s and Portugal’s entire current account deficits were financed that way.

Moreover, since May 2010, the E.C.B. has bought more than $250 billion in government bonds, while nearly $500 billion has come from rescue programs and help from the I.M.F. Add to that two European rescue funds, and you have a total of $2.63 trillion.

It is unfair for critics to ask Germany to bear even more risk. Should Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain go bankrupt and repay nothing, while the euro survives, Germany would lose $899 billion. Should the euro fail, Germany would lose over $1.35 trillion, more than 40 percent of its G.D.P. Has the United States ever incurred a similar risk for helping other countries?

Some critics have argued that Germany, having benefited from the Marshall Plan, now owes it to Europe to undertake a similar rescue. Those critics should look at the numbers.

Greece has received or been promised $575 billion through assistance efforts, including Target credit, E.C.B. bond purchases and a haircut after a debt moratorium. Compare this with the Marshall Plan, for which Germany is very grateful. It received 0.5 percent of its G.D.P. for four years, or 2 percent in total. Applied to the Greek G.D.P., this would be about $5 billion today.

In other words, Greece has received a staggering 115 Marshall plans, 29 from Germany alone, and yet the situation has not improved. Why, Mr. Obama, is that not enough?
416 2012-06-13 The questions now, since Nadal’s triumph at the French is the closest thing in tennis to a given, is whether he is playing at a level higher than in 2011 and whether that will carry over as the season chugs along. Nadal maintained he is playing better than he did last season, even on his favorite surface.

His rivalry with Djokovic should be central to the narrative of the rest of the season, although Federer remains a threat. Nadal has played in the last five Grand Slam finals, but lost three of them to Djokovic and won only at the French, albeit twice.

“You have to find your moments,” Nadal said. “It’s not possible to be perfect every time. I going to try to keep having chances to win, produce chances to win. I produced a lot of chances to win last year, but I lost almost every one.”

That was why Monday was so important, and less for the record at Roland Garros and more for Nadal’s own psyche. When rain delayed the final overnight, Nadal later admitted he felt nervous, anxious, and he read the same comic book three times before he fell asleep.

In his news conference, Nadal called his latest contest with Djokovic a “very complex final.” Nadal said as he listened to Spain’s national anthem, he thought about what it felt like to lose the final match of three consecutive Grand Slams, thought about how, as he gets older, “you give more value to these precious moments.”

Nadal, in response to a question about his superiority on clay, said fear had always driven him. He said his mental makeup, not the topspin forehand, not the poetic movement, was most central to his clay success.

But there is another side to that, and it seemed evident at both the United States Open and the Australian Open that Djokovic had dented Nadal’s confidence.

On Monday, as he held the silver French Open trophy in front of him, Nadal read the names of the champions who came before. He looked as assured as ever. And in his rivalry with Djokovic, where matches are won or lost by the slimmest margins, that last sliver of confidence can make the difference. He even sounded different than he had before.

“I can’t deny this was probably my best season on clay,” Nadal said.

Downstairs from where Nadal spoke, his uncle and coach, Toni Nadal, said his nephew was unlucky to be born in the same era as Federer and Djokovic, two champions in their own right. The three of them have won 28 of the last 29 Grand Slam titles.

For years, Nadal staged epic showdowns with Federer, the same as he does now with Djokovic. Nadal has 11 Grand Slam singles titles to show for it, but Toni Nadal seemed to say that in another era, his nephew would have won far more.

Nadal did not necessarily agree with that assessment. He said he felt lucky and unlucky all at once. The players, he said again, must pick their moments, give themselves a chance.

Near the end of Nadal’s news conference, he was asked if he knew that Borg retired at 26, the same age Nadal turned last week. He shook his head and took questions in Spanish, then left the grounds and the red clay upon which he has lost only once in his career. The grass at Wimbledon awaited.

“Is impossible to predict the future, no?” he said.
417 2012-06-13 WASHINGTON (Reuters) — Prices of imported goods in the United States posted their largest decline in nearly two years in May as energy and food costs fell, pointing to muted inflation pressures amid slowing global demand.

The Labor Department said on Tuesday that import prices fell 1.0 percent, the biggest drop since June 2010, after being flat in April. In the 12 months to May, import prices fell 0.3 percent, posting their first year-on-year decline since October 2009, also reflecting a stronger dollar.

The data was the latest sign that falling energy prices were keeping inflation pressures well contained and offered evidence of weakening global demand as the debt crisis in Europe worsened.

Against the backdrop of a sputtering economic recovery, economists said the benign inflation environment gave the Federal Reserve some scope to ease policy further through either another round of government bond purchases, also known as quantitative easing, or other measures to keep interest rates down.

“Price pressures have come off sharply since April,” said Ellen Zentner, senior economist at Nomura Securities, “giving the Federal Open Market Committee some breathing room should they want to implement more quantitative easing.”

But the Fed is not expected to announce new policy initiatives at its two-day meeting next week. Economic activity has cooled off significantly, with job growth braking sharply in the past three months.

Last month, imported petroleum prices dropped 4.2 percent, the largest fall in two years, after slipping 0.7 percent in April. Weak petroleum prices should help to further lower the cost of gasoline, freeing up income for households.
418 2012-06-13 Google has released a trove of documents related to a federal investigation into its Street View mapping project. Among the documents were sworn declarations from several employees familiar with Street View denying knowledge that the cars were col...
419 2012-06-13 The Spanish bailout has raised hopes in some of the countries that accepted more onerous conditions that they, too, will be able to get a break.

In Dublin, the Sinn Fein party’s finance spokesman, Pearse Doherty, said in a statement after Spain’s application that the loans were to be provided “at a lower cost, with no additional austerity or loss of sovereignty.” The Irish government, he added, should explain “why it was not able to secure these kinds of terms when the Spanish government could.”

In Greece, the two parties leading the election race, the conservative New Democracy and leftist Syriza, have suggested the Spanish agreement was a sign that Athens could be cut some slack in renegotiating its own bailout. But Evangelos Venizelos, the former finance minister who negotiated the country’s debt deal with creditors and saw support for his socialist Pasok party crumble as a result, said on Monday that the Spain deal showed European leaders were merely “preparing a firewall to deal with whatever happens in Greece.”

A bailout would make Cyprus the fifth member of the euro zone to need help since the currency bloc’s crisis began in late 2009, when the Greek government owned up to having misled other governments about the size of the hole in its public finances.

The Republic of Cyprus has a population of just over 800,000, if the Turkish population of the northern part of the divided island is excluded, and an annual gross domestic product of about $24 billion. It is an offshore financial center with a banking presence much larger than its size would suggest.

That has been its undoing. Bank of Cyprus and Cyprus Popular Bank, the country’s two largest lenders, need billions of euros to rebuild their capital after they had to mark down the value of their holdings of Greek government bonds and loans to Greek businesses and consumers.

Moody’s Investors Service has estimated that bailing out the banks would cost the government about 20 percent of gross domestic product. On Tuesday, Moody’s cut its rating on the Bank of Cyprus’s deposit and senior unsecured debt by one notch, to B2 from B1, and lowered Hellenic Bank’s deposit ratings by one notch, to B1 from Ba3. Both banks, in addition to Cyprus Popular Bank, were put on review for downgrade.

Last year, Cyprus, frozen out of international debt markets, turned to Russia rather than the European Union. The Russian government lent the government 2.5 billion euros, or $3.1 billion, at a below-market rate of 4.5 percent.
420 2012-06-13 And yet, critics are noting that any upside from the arrangement will go to the banks and their investors. The potential downside will be the Spanish people’s to bear.

“Unfortunately Spain didn’t manage to reach one of its main goals in the negotiations, which was to have Europe bear part of the risk of rescuing the financial sector, without letting it fall instead directly onto the shoulders of the Spanish taxpayer,” said Luis Garicano, a Spanish economist who teaches at the London of School Economics. “Ultimately, those who lent to our financial system were the banks and insurance companies of Northern Europe, which should bear the consequences of these decisions.”

The full bailout loan would add 10 percentage points to Spain’s debt, raising it to about 90 percent of gross domestic product this year.

And Fitch, the credit rating agency that downgraded Spain’s government debt nearly to junk status last week, warned Tuesday, that even if Spain used only 60 billion euros of the bailout loan, that would put Spain’s debt “on a trajectory to peak at 95 percent of G.D.P. in 2015.” As recently as April, Luis de Guindos, the economy minister, had forecast that debt would rise to 78 percent of G.D.P. this year.

On Tuesday, despite the bailout plan, Fitch downgraded the credit ratings of 18 Spanish banks. That included Bankia, the troubled mortgage lender the government nationalized in early May.

Some analysts are questioning the rush by European finance ministers to push for Spain to accept a bailout before Greek elections on Sunday. Those elections could create deeper turmoil for the euro zone.

“The Europeans wanted to put a firewall between Greece and Spain, but they’ve accelerated things in a way that doesn’t at all give confidence to the markets,” said Xavier Sala-í-Martin, an economics professor at Columbia University. Instead, he said, the deal “leaves the impression that everything was just improvised rather than planned properly.”

Until last weekend, in fact, Mr. Rajoy’s government had resisted formally requesting a rescue package, saying it wanted first to establish exactly how much money was needed to keep its troubled banks afloat.

Madrid had already grossly underestimated the problems at Bankia when it seized the mortgage lender last month after giving it a 4.5 billion euro cash infusion. Less than two weeks later, the bank’s overseers said it would need an additional 19 billion euros ($23.88 billion) of new capital — a declaration that unsettled the markets and threatened to turn a steady outflow of investor money from Spanish banks into a torrent.

Two consulting firms hired by the government to conduct stress-test audits of the Spanish banking industry, Roland Berger and Oliver Wyman, are not scheduled to present their findings until June 21. Another four consulting firms are auditing the 14 largest Spanish financial institutions, with those results not expected before the end of July.

Still, the International Monetary Fund on Friday evening in Washington, ahead of a release scheduled for Monday, published its assessment of Spanish banks, providing a rationale for the weekend rescue deal. The I.M.F. said that Spanish banks would need at least 37 billion euros in extra capital. The European finance ministers decided to lend out nearly three times that amount.

“Everybody moved too fast, based on too little information,” Mr. Sala-í-Martin said. “The I.M.F. report comes out looking a little bit superficial, and certainly can’t be used to conclude exactly how much money needs to be put on the table.”

One thing the I.M.F. report did, however, is split Spanish banks into different risk categories, which in itself has fueled another debate within Spain’s banking industry. Some of the best-situated commercial banks are now resisting receiving any of the European loans.

Spain and its European partners have not yet drawn up a memorandum of understanding for the deal. Many basic aspects of the loan also remain under discussion, even though Mr. de Guindos, the Spanish economy minister, has already said that Spain will receive “very favorable” terms for the European loan.

Among the few certainties is that the emergency loan will be channeled to the banks through the Fund for Orderly Bank Restructuring, which Spain set up in 2009 and has already used to wipe out the losses of some smaller collapsed banks.

The Spanish deal comes at an awkward time because Europe is in transition to a new emergency funding program, making it uncertain exactly how and when the money will be disbursed to Spain. Some holders of Spanish bonds are worried that Europe’s loan will be given seniority over existing government debt. The new fund, known as the European Stability Mechanism, goes into effect next month and guarantees that its creditors have preferred status to other bondholders.

And even though Madrid obtained a much cheaper European lifeline for Spain’s troubled banks than it could have raised on the debt markets, opposition politicians are blaming Mr. Rajoy for letting the banking crisis spin out of control in the first place.

Mr. Rajoy, however, has turned down calls to answer such criticism before Parliament. His next scheduled appearance there is in the second week of July.

“What is there to make of somebody who has enough time to watch a soccer match but not to appear before Parliament?” asked Mr. Sala-í-Martin, the Spanish economist.

It is a view shared by many Spaniards.

“I don’t understand whether such a rescue will really save the banks, but what I do know is that the only ones who will be forced to tighten their belt again will be ordinary taxpayers,” Cristina Senac Amigo, a 42-year-old hairdresser, said Tuesday.

“And if you’re telling your people to prepare for a disastrous year, you don’t then leave to watch a game — however much we all love soccer and want Spain to win.”
421 2012-06-13 Stocks advanced on Tuesday, rebounding from a decline on Monday, amid speculation the Federal Reserve will act to stimulate the economy and after the European Central Bank endorsed a plan to guarantee bank deposits.

All 10 groups in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose, with commodity, financial and industrial shares having the biggest gains. Boeing stock rose 3.5 percent as Sanford C. Bernstein & Company raised its recommendation. Textron shares rallied 4 percent after Berkshire Hathaway agreed to buy its planes. Stock in First Solar surged 21 percent after it delayed the closing of a German plant to meet European demand.

The S.& P. 500 advanced 15.25 points, or 1.17 percent, to 1,324.18; the Dow Jones industrial average rose 162.57 points, or 1.31 percent, to 12,573.80; and the Nasdaq composite index rose 33.34 points, or 1.19 percent, to 2,843.07. “It has been a bit schizophrenic,” said Mark D. Luschini, chief investment strategist for Janney Montgomery Scott in Philadelphia.

“What’s taking place in the Spanish bond market is troubling,” Mr. Luschini said. “Yet pessimism is so high that the prospect of any relief would be enough to jump-start a rally in equities. It seems investors are desperate for continued liquidity injections.”

Stocks rose after Charles L. Evans, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, said he would support measures to generate faster job growth. The Federal Open Market Committee, which sets policy, will meet next week. Equities also gained as the European Central Bank backed a European Commission proposal to guarantee deposits.
422 2012-06-13 He described Mr. Murdoch’s influence “whether he exercises it or not” as “unattractive.”

“It does seem to me an oddity that in a nation which prides itself on one man one vote, we should have one man who can’t vote with a large collection of newspapers and a large share of the electronic media outlets,” he said of Mr. Murdoch, who is not a British citizen.

Mr. Major was among several political leaders past and present set to testify before the inquiry over four days this week. The concentration of high-ranking figures at the inquiry has provoked speculation that the hearings will be among the most politically charged so far in the investigation. The hearings will culminate on Thursday with a daylong appearance by Prime Minister David Cameron.

Mr. Major said he had met Mr. Murdoch three times in his seven years in office. On the last occasion, he said, in February 1997, Mr. Murdoch told him that if the governing Conservatives did not change their policies toward the European Union, his newspapers would not maintain their long-running support for Mr. Major’s party.

“He wished me to change our European policies,” Mr. Major said. “If we couldn’t change our European policies, his papers could not, would not support our Conservative government.”

He added, “It’s not very often someone sits in front of a prime minister and says to a prime minister, ‘I would like you to change your policy, and if you don’t change your policy my organization cannot support you.’ ”

Shortly after that meeting, Mr. Murdoch’s flagship tabloid, The Sun, switched allegiance to Tony Blair’s Labour Party, which won the general election in May 1997, ending 18 years of Conservative rule. Mr. Blair testified before the inquiry in late May.

“I haven’t talked about this conversation at any stage over the past 15 years, but now I am under oath. I was asked the question, and I have answered the question,” Mr. Major said.

News International, the British newspaper subsidiary of News Corporation, rebutted Mr. Major’s remarks in a statement, saying its British titles “did not act in unison” in the 1997 vote, with The Sunday Times supporting Mr. Major, The Times of London neutral, and The Sun and The News of the World supporting Labour.

Mr. Murdoch’s sway over British politics emerged in a more textured light when Mr. Brown, a Labour politician, leveled thinly veiled charges that the Conservatives had struck a kind of compact with Mr. Murdoch to secure his support in the 2010 elections, which thrust Labour from power.

Within hours of Mr. Brown’s testimony, the serving chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne, a senior Conservative, took the stand at the inquiry to dismiss such notions as “nonsense.”

The exchange illustrated some of the tripwires: no politician of any party wants to allow an impression of being, or having been, in Mr. Murdoch’s pocket. Accusations of complicity with him have thus come to resemble a weapon, deployed by both sides of a political elite that, testimony has shown, was acutely aware of the tycoon’s potential influence.

In testimony on Tuesday after Mr. Major’s three-hour appearance, Ed Miliband, the leader of the Labour opposition, said there had been “a failure to get to grips with” issues raised by the phone hacking scandal “by the press; the police, who did not investigate properly; and I think politicians, who were aware of some of what was going on and did not speak out.”

He added: “Organizations like News International had huge power, and I think politicians were reticent to speak about some of these practices that were exposed. I include myself in that.”
423 2012-06-13 Geetanjali Gupta's education at Harvard Law School may not have included a class on how to testify, but she was poised and articulate in answering questions on the witness stand on Tuesday at her father's criminal trial.     Ms. Gupta was among th...
424 2012-06-13 Coming soon to record stores both real-world and digital: a wave of Frank Zappa reissues.     The Zappa Family Trust, which is controlled by Frank Zappa's widow, Gail, announced on Monday that it had regained control of his catalog and had struck ...
425 2012-06-13 When JPMorgan's chief executive, Jamie Dimon, appears Wednesday on Capitol Hill, he plans to play down the risky trading activities that have already prompted at least $3 billion in losses.     In prepared testimony for a Senate hearing into the t...
426 2012-06-13 INNISS--Charles E. 6/13/35-1/30/97 Never Forgotten. Love, Marjorie...
427 2012-06-14 Andy Zhang, a 14-year-old, got off to an inauspicious start with a triple bogey, a double bogey and a bogey on the first three holes of the United States Open....
428 2012-06-14 The Knicks forced Cuttino Mobley to retire after discovering he had a heart condition....
429 2012-06-14 Day 1 of deliberations by the jury of eight women and four men concluded without a verdict in the trial of the former Goldman Sachs director Rajat K. Gupta....
430 2012-06-14 A month after its botched I.P.O., the social network is set to file a motion to consolidate all shareholder lawsuits against the company — a filing that could place some blame on Nasdaq....
431 2012-06-14 When a child's absorbed by a gadget during a family visit, there's nothing wrong with asking the parent to help her turn it off....
432 2012-06-14 Broad porcelain-blue brush strokes, ceramic-colored prints and, for diversity's sake, polka dots - took center stage this season....
433 2012-06-14 In a speech to bankers, the head of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission outlined a plan to regulate overseas derivatives trading while delaying some rules for foreign banks....
434 2012-06-14 In its keynote at the Worldwide Developers Conference in San Francisco, Apple took the wraps off enough new features and products to cover a mummy parade. Here are some further reflections on the MacBook Air, iOS 6 and Mountain Lion....
435 2012-06-14 A week before a Senate subcommittee is set to hold hearings, two consumer-advocate organizations tried to rally opposition to the $1.9 billion acquisition with a detailed report on the deal....
436 2012-06-14 Jeep Cherokee and Liberty models from certain model years were added to the investigation, which was opened by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration in August 2010. The investigation applies to 5.1 million vehicles....
437 2012-06-14 Up Next in Business
438 2012-06-14 Shares of Credit Suisse tumbled in Zurich trading after the Swiss central bank said it should consider suspending its dividend or raising capital by selling stock....
439 2012-06-14 Lower prices and rising jobless claims signal a weak economy. | How one vegetable became the face of the health care debate. | Greek tourism industry feels the strain.
440 2012-06-14 Phil Mickelson and Bubba Watson will spend Friday desperately trying to rally to make the cut while Tiger Woods thinks about moving into position to win....
441 2012-06-14 Charlotte Strick of Faber & Faber and The Paris Review finds inspiration in the oversaturated style of a book from the 1950s....
442 2012-06-14 Despite partisan sniping, President Obama's choice to lead the commission and a nominee seeking a second term seem to be headed toward confirmation....
443 2012-06-14 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
444 2012-06-14 “For a magazine or brand like People or Time, a tablet will become an increasingly important part of the experience,” Ms. Lang said. “Our goal is to offer content where our consumers want to read it.”

The agreement also signals an evolution for Apple, which has slowly backed away from some of its initial restrictions. Facing competition from Amazon, which sells magazine subscriptions for its Kindle, and Google, which has Android software, Apple has become a more agreeable partner, publishing executives have said.

Neither Apple nor Time Inc. would discuss the exact financial terms of the agreement, but Mr. Cue said Time Inc.’s heft did not influence them. “We offer the same terms to everyone no matter how big or how small,” he said.

The Apple newsstand currently sells more than 5,000 magazines and newspapers. The majority of the more than five million newsstand customers buy subscriptions rather than single issues, Mr. Cue said.

Adding magazines like People, Sports Illustrated and Time, three of the top five magazines over all in circulation revenue in 2011, was essential, he added.

The agreement also moves Apple further along in its strategy of expanding its App Store beyond popular games like Angry Birds and making it more of a destination for news, information and videos.

Last fall, when Apple’s newsstand began, publishers criticized the tech company for not releasing subscriber data, which publishers value because they can use it to customize ads and show advertisers who they are reaching. That friction has eased as Apple has offered readers the ability to “opt in” on sharing data with publishers.

Now, 66 percent of tablet users said they would share personal information in return for advertising that fits their needs, according to a survey from the Association of Magazine Media.

Another point of contention for Time Inc.’s parent company, Time Warner, was the control Apple wielded over pricing, and the 30 percent commission it demanded for magazine subscriptions bought through its App Store.

“The only deal we have not done is with Apple, and to cede to their demands to sell digital subscriptions,” Jeffrey L. Bewkes, chief executive of Time Warner, said in a Nov. 30 interview, just after announcing Ms. Lang’s appointment. “They want you to be subscribing to them, and the last time we looked they weren’t making the magazines,” Mr. Bewkes said of Apple.

A Time Warner spokesman, Gary Ginsberg, said in an e-mail: “We watched newsstand evolve over the last year and became satisfied they understand our customers and can meet our needs.”

Mr. Cue said Apple’s relationship with publishers evolved as the iPad became a more common way for people to read. “There was some controversy early on because it was something new and hadn’t been done before,” he said.

Subscribers to the print edition of Time Inc. magazines can now authenticate their print subscription or buy a subscription through a Web site and receive the magazine’s newsstand app at no additional charge.

Ms. Lang did not comment on Time Inc.’s previous stance toward Apple. “It’s hard for me to talk about what happened before, but when I joined this was a top priority because this is where our consumers are,” she said.

Like the rest of the print publishing business, Time Inc. has in recent years grappled with a decline in print advertising revenue and an uncertain transition to a digital future. Revenue has declined roughly 30 percent in the last five years, and advertising revenue in the first quarter of this year dropped by 5 percent, or $19 million.
445 2012-06-14 It has also set off an arms race among Republican candidates for the allegiance of a small group of very rich donors. With a net worth of roughly $25 billion, Mr. Adelson is among the richest of all: In an interview with Forbes magazine this year, he suggested he would consider personally spending as much as $100 million on the 2012 elections.

Many wealthy donors have put their money into issue advocacy groups that are not required to disclose their identities to the Federal Election Commission, leaving unknown the true scale of outside money flowing into the 2012 campaigns. A group of conservative donors led by Charles and David Koch, for example, have pledged to raise as much as $400 million for issue groups, including the Koch-founded Americans for Prosperity, and Mr. Adelson himself has financed such organizations in past elections.

But during the Republican primaries, Mr. Adelson stood out for his willingness to spend money on super PACs, which must register with the election commission and disclose details of their contributions and spending. The Adelson family almost single-handedly bankrolled Winning Our Future, a super PAC backing Newt Gingrich, a Romney rival, during the primaries, giving the group more than $20 million.

Winning Our Future pounded Mr. Romney with millions of dollars in radio and television advertisements this winter, injecting into the race some of the toughest and most sustained attacks on his record at the private equity firm Bain Capital.

Mr. Adelson has in the past publicly expressed doubts about Mr. Romney, describing him as timid in comparison with Mr. Gingrich.

But although Mr. Romney is barred from specifically asking Mr. Adelson to contribute large checks to Restore Our Future for his benefit, he has been courting him since January, around the time the Adelsons began giving millions of dollars to Winning Our Future for Mr. Gingrich.

At the time, Mr. Adelson relayed assurances that he would support Mr. Romney’s super PAC even more generously should he become the nominee, saying that he was committed to defeating Mr. Obama.

Mr. Gingrich dropped out in May. Later that month, Mr. Romney and Mr. Adelson met for lunch at Mr. Adelson’s Las Vegas hotel, the Venetian. By last week, according to Politico, Mr. Adelson was considering a contribution of $1 million to $10 million to the pro-Romney super PAC.

Mr. Adelson is close to many of Mr. Romney’s other supporters, particularly wealthy Jewish donors, with whom he has served on the board of the Republican Jewish Coalition.

He is known for his influence in Israeli politics and his hawkish views on American foreign policy, views shared by Mr. Gingrich and to some extent by Mr. Romney. And Mr. Adelson has ties to Restore Our Future; the group’s political director, Carl Forti, helped run Freedom’s Watch, an issue advocacy group to which Mr. Adelson gave $17 million during the 2008 election.

Mr. Forti declined to comment, as did a spokesman for Mr. Adelson.

Some of the leading Republican super PACs were established during the 2010 elections, raising tens of millions of dollars to counter labor unions and helping Republicans to win control of the House.

Democrats have since sought to match Republicans’ super PAC advantage, but with little success. The Adelsons’ $35 million is more than the three leading Democratic super PACs have raised combined. The top donor to Democratic super PACs is Jeffrey Katzenberg, the studio executive, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. He had given just over $2 million through the end of April.

“For the conservatives backing Mitt Romney, these multimillion-dollar investments are small pittances compared to the return they will make when their industries are deregulated and their tax cuts even more than President Bush prescribed,” said Bill Burton, a spokesman for Priorities USA, a super PAC backing Mr. Obama. “Right-wing Republicans will literally pay any price to see to it that their candidate Mitt Romney is elected.”
446 2012-06-14 Several United States senators are condemning the arrest and abuse they say a Cuban dissident endured after he testified by video conference before a Senate subcommittee looking into repression on the island. Lawmakers said Jorge Luis García Pérez, known as Antúnez, was released Wednesday, four days after he was beaten and arrested by authorities. He had testified last Thursday from the United States Interest Section in Havana on the short-term detention of dissidents. Mr. García Pérez still faces charges, including “spreading false information,” senators Robert Menendez of New Jersey and Marco Rubio of Florida, both Cuban-Americans, said in a statement. The Cuban government has not responded, but generally treats dissidents as common criminals in the pay of the American government and exile groups.
447 2012-06-14 Kentucky is the first jurisdiction to bar the diuretic, which is meant to stem exercise-induced pulmonary hemorrhage, or bleeding, in horses’ lungs. It is barred on race days in Europe and most of the world because it improves performance. New York regulators have asked for public comment on furosemide and are currently reviewing the state’s rules.

For now, the ban will be rolled out gradually beginning with 2-year-olds in listed and graded stakes races — the sport’s highest level — in 2014. In 2015, the ban will apply to 3-year-olds in those races, including the Derby. By 2016, it will cover all stakes races in Kentucky.

Originally Kentucky officials had hoped to prohibit the use of furosemide in all its races, but trainers argued fiercely that the ban would thin the herd of horses in the lower tiers so drastically that it would put them out of business.

Horsemen in Kentucky have been fleeing to neighboring states as well as New York, where money from casino gambling has increased purses. Dale Romans, for example, a Kentucky native and one of the nation’s leading trainers, has moved most of his operation to New York.

Romans warned the commission in a raucous meeting this spring that imposing the more sweeping ban would drive “the final nail in Kentucky racing” and said it would be “the most drastic change to American racing ever.”

Nearly every horse that goes to post in the United States is given the medication. Jockey Club statistics show that the percentage of total starts with Lasix injections on race day in the United States increased from just over 45 percent in 1991 to nearly 95 percent in 2010. Most regulators and veterinarians say Lasix enhances performance because it is a diuretic that flushes 20 to 30 pounds of water weight out of a horse.

John Ward, executive director of the Kentucky commission, said the state decided to move slowly in the hopes of eventually producing greater change.

“It’s a start, and it gives everyone time to get comfortable with it,” said Ward, a third generation horseman who trained the 2001 Derby winner, Monarchos. “It also gives other jurisdictions time to look at it and, we hope, join us. This gives an opportunity to run our world-class athletes under worldwide medication rules. It will also give our industry some time to develop more modern and efficient protocols that will protect all our athletes and not be used on race day.”

Violations of the race-day drug ban would result in disqualification and forfeiture of purse money, and trainers or veterinarians would face license suspensions and fines up to 60 days.

The ban still needs the approval of state lawmakers, but it was endorsed by Gov. Steve Beshear, who asked that other states adopt a similar measure.

“Today’s action by the Kentucky Horse Racing Commission is an important step in removing race-day medication at Kentucky tracks, something the public has expressed a desire to see happen,” he said in a statement. “We must instill a sense of confidence in the betting public’s mind that horses running in graded and listed stakes on Kentucky tracks are doing so on their own abilities. I am hopeful that other racing jurisdictions across the country will follow suit.”
448 2012-06-14 Gov. Lincoln Chafee is expected to sign into law the first “Homeless Bill of Rights” in the United States. The law, approved by the State Senate on Wednesday, would guarantee a person the right to use public sidewalks, parks and transportation as well as public buildings “without discrimination on the basis of his or her housing status.” It also guarantees a “reasonable expectation of privacy” with respect to personal belongings.
449 2012-06-14 A judge on Wednesday threw out a legal challenge to an agreement intended to spare Detroit from financial ruin, ending a showdown that had threatened to leave the city unable to pay its bills as early as Friday. The judge, William Collette, of Ingham County Circuit Court, dismissed a suit that had been brought by Detroit’s corporation counsel, though opposed by its mayor, Dave Bing. The suit said that Detroit, which in April agreed to a deal with the state to steady its finances, could not enter into the contract because, the suit asserted, the state owes Detroit hundreds of millions of dollars from past debts. Mr. Bing said the city could now move forward in its effort to recover.
450 2012-06-14 The New York Police Department should use stop-and-frisk like a surgeon’s scalpel, not a blunt ax.

Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg claims that the low rate of gun seizures shows that the stop-and-frisk policy “saves lives” by persuading criminals to leave their guns home out of fear of arrest. But focusing only on gun seizures in stop-and-frisks obscures a larger reality: the New York Police Department seizes thousands of guns each year by other means, and those means are far more effective than stop-and-frisks at keeping people safe.

In 2011, the N.Y.P.D. made 684,330 stops and seized 780 guns, a rate of 1.1 guns per 1,000 stops. But the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms reported that the N.Y.P.D. submitted 3,980 crime guns for tracing through the bureau’s system in the same year.

The simple math shows that 3,200 guns were seized by means other than stop-and-frisks, four times more than were seized in street stops. By allocating police resources to inefficient stop-and-frisk tactics instead of using tactics that have higher public safety payoffs, the N.Y.P.D. is missing out on a substantial number of gun seizures.

By leaving guns on the street, New Yorkers are still at risk of being shot: the 1,821 shootings in 2011 are only slightly fewer than the 1,892 shootings in 2002, when fewer than 100,000 people were stopped.

The seizure rate of about one-tenth of 1 percent and the persistence of shootings show that the police are looking for guns in all the wrong places.

The writers are, respectively, a professor of law at Columbia and a senior fellow at the University of Pennsylvania School of Law.

Put aside that there is no evidence — none — that New York City’s stop-and-frisk policy saves lives. If the New York Police Department stops and frisks people to deter crime, rather than based on reasonable suspicion that the person stopped is engaged in crime, the stop-and-frisk policy is unconstitutional.

The Constitution limits police power, to protect our personal liberty. It would probably deter crime to beat suspects bloody on the street. Would Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg add that tactic to his “saves lives” stump speech?

The writer is class counsel in Floyd et al. v. City of New York, the stop-and-frisk class action case.
451 2012-06-14 When the commandos reached the deck of the ship in the raid, they met with violent resistance and killed nine pro-Palestinian activists — eight Turks and an American of Turkish descent. The deaths incited international outrage and damaged Israel’s already troubled diplomatic relationship with Turkey, a former close regional ally.

Mr. Lindenstrauss wrote that the Israeli decision makers were aware that the flotilla trying to reach Gaza in May 2010 differed from those that preceded it, both in scale and in the kinds of activists participating. The Turkish ship that was raided was the largest of six vessels in the flotilla and had more than 600 passengers on board, mostly from Turkey.

The report also noted that Israeli military and defense officials had raised concerns beforehand that the commandos might meet with violence as they intercepted the ship, to little apparent effect.

Some crucial meetings among top officials were held one on one, without any staff work or documentation, the report said; the top seven ministers in the cabinet did not meet to discuss the flotilla until after it had embarked, and then only for a hastily called and superficial discussion.

After that meeting, the decision was made to raid the flotilla with a military operation “without the plans having been presented in a detailed, orderly manner and without any real alternative courses of action having been presented.”

The report added that although the defense minister, Mr. Barak, had early on pointed to the possibility of violent resistance by some flotilla participants, he apparently did not examine the military’s readiness to contend with such resistance.

Still, the state comptroller concluded that even without such flawed decision making, the results of the military operation would not necessarily have turned out differently.

The prime minister’s office responded in a statement saying that “Israel’s democratic process includes institutional mechanisms for independent oversight, and we thank the state comptroller for his work.”

The statement added that a United Nations panel had found that Israel’s naval blockade of Gaza was “legitimate self-defense and that Israel’s decision to intercept the flotilla was indeed legal under international law.”

In early 2009, Israel imposed a formal naval blockade on Gaza, saying it was essential to prevent the smuggling of weapons to the Palestinian coastal enclave, which is governed by the Islamic militant group Hamas. Israeli officials also worry about weapons being smuggled to other groups there like Islamic Jihad.

Israel said that its soldiers opened fire on the Turkish vessel in self-defense and as a last resort. The United Nations report found that in raiding the boat, Israel had used “excessive and unreasonable” force.
452 2012-06-14 Oil is among the commodities that have fallen in price the fastest despite continuing tensions in the Middle East and the tightening sanctions on Iran. OPEC production has been soaring in recent months because of mushrooming crude exports from Iraq, an almost total resumption of exports from Libya since the fall of the Qaddafi dictatorship, and a concerted drive by Saudi Arabia to push up production. At a meeting in Vienna on Thursday, OPEC is expected to decide to keep production steady despite weakening prices.

In the United States, a glut of natural gas has led to a price drop of about 10 percent over the last month and more than 50 percent over the last year. Since much of the nation’s electricity is produced by burning natural gas, that should ease summer air-conditioning expenses for consumers. It will also help manufacturers, especially those who make plastics, fertilizers and other products that use natural gas as a feedstock.

But while consumers are pleased by lower fuel prices, they say they have yet to see much relief in the prices of other products linked to commodities.

“I don’t feel food is going down,” said Connie Shanley, a homemaker shopping at a Whole Foods store this week in West University Place, Tex. “Paper towels, deodorant, soap, cleaning products seem to be going up. The total bill seems to be more.”

Libba Letton, a Whole Foods spokeswoman, conceded that there were limited benefits for consumers in the short term.

“Typically these market fluctuations do not immediately affect Whole Foods Market because we have long-term contracts with our suppliers,” she said.

Other businesses also acknowledge that prices for raw materials go up and down far faster than the prices their customers pay for finished goods. Clothing retail executives have said they need to sell off inventory purchased when textile prices were higher before consumers can take full advantage of falling cotton prices, while car parts retailers say they are still paying high shipping costs that have not fallen along with lower fuel costs.

Paul J. Chakmak, executive vice president and chief operating officer of Boyd Gaming, a national chain of hotels and casinos, said his company was benefiting from lower jet fuel prices since it operates four weekly charter flights to shuttle tourists from Honolulu to Las Vegas. Lower natural gas prices help reduce the cost of cooking at hotel restaurants and of heating the shower water in 11,500 rooms. But he said the energy savings were marginal compared with labor and marketing costs, so customers would not see lower prices.

“It is a little soon,” Mr. Chakmak said, to predict any long-lasting impact.

More than anything else, economists say, the steep drop in prices reflects deepening worries about a global economic slowdown as Greece prepares for elections next weekend that could lead to its withdrawal from the euro currency union, with financial repercussions across Europe and beyond. A sharp drop in European consumer demand, especially in Italy and Spain, has already reduced global trade in many goods.

But economists say that while manufacturers and retailers tend to pass higher costs on to their customers, they do not always pass along their savings when wholesale prices go down.

“Producers or stores tend to keep prices the same, and take a larger profit,” said Michael P. Niemira, chief economist for the International Council of Shopping Centers.

Commodity prices are still generally high, and well above levels nearly four years ago, when the global financial panic reversed a seven-year bull market.

The decline in commodity prices varies widely depending on the raw material. Cotton prices are down nearly 50 percent over the last year, and have actually been recovering a bit in recent weeks. Copper, a metal that is viewed by many economists as a barometer for economic activity, is down by nearly 20 percent for the year. Gold, normally a commodity that soars with economic uncertainty, is higher but only by about 3 percent over the last year.

“Gold has behaved in line with risky assets, and the heightened uncertainty globally has not rallied the same support gold garnered on previous occasions,” according to a recent research note from Barclays commodities.

Some analysts say that commodities have sold off so steeply that they are bound to turn around and resume the bull market that was spurred by growing demand from emerging middle classes in the developing world.

In an investment note this week, Goldman Sachs argued that oil and some other commodities were poised for a rebound. “Although the macroeconomic backdrop still remains uncertain, particularly in Europe,” the bank said, “we believe that the price risks are now shifting more to the upside.”

Some analysts note that China is still growing and importing large amounts of oil, and can be expected to be a steady importer of raw materials.

“The fact that China is moving from an export model to an internal consumption model may be positive for some commodities such as energy and agricultural products,” said Nelson Louie, global head of commodities at Credit Suisse’s asset management division.
453 2012-06-14 Even worse, owners often assume incorrectly that the protection they have on personal bank accounts applies to their business accounts. Many are shocked to learn that most banks do not take responsibility for unauthorized debits from business accounts. Unless the owners have fraud insurance, they must shoulder the losses alone. One reason is that owners who have been victimized are often reluctant to speak about it, out of embarrassment or fear of publicity.

Although many financial institutions have taken measures to thwart hackers, they emphasize that other businesses must also defend themselves. Here are tips from security specialists and from owners who have learned these lessons the hard way.

BEST PRACTICES Authorities recommend keeping firewalls up-to-date and limiting the number of employees with access to accounts. Sari Stern Greene, president of Sage Data Security in South Portland, Me., advises being diligent about applying security patches to operating systems like Windows.

Owners should also educate their employees and enforce strict rules for office computers. Social media should be forbidden, and workers should avoid unusual links and e-mails.

In some cases, companies receive e-mail that resembles official communication from agencies like the I.R.S. When a business owner or chief financial officer clicks on an e-mail saying, for example, that the company is being audited, a virus infects the computer.

Some viruses capture keystrokes, enabling criminals to view user names and passwords as they are typed, while others allow criminals to manipulate computers from afar. Some obtain identifying information from shadow Web addresses that mimic a bank’s Web site, persuading users to log on.

BANKING PRECAUTIONS Business owners who have been hacked often feel most betrayed by the banks they thought were protecting their money. But banks have no legal obligation to reimburse businesses for attacks — federal regulations do not cover commercial accounts. Regulatory bodies such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Federal Financial Institutions Examinations Council offer guidance on fraud controls for financial institutions, and owners should make sure their banks are up to speed.

Owners may want to place accounts with larger banks — such as Chase, Bank of America and Wells Fargo — that have more mature pattern-recognition and monitoring capabilities. Banks should have automated systems to detect anomalous activity in accounts, but because these systems are expensive, many banks still rely on laborious manual processes. And if banks use third-party processors to handle transactions, as almost all but the largest do, business owners should confirm that the processors’ practices are equally secure.

“If you go two states over and use your credit card to buy gas, the credit card company calls you to say it’s out of the norm, but most banks have no idea,” said Mark Patterson, whose construction company, Patco, in Sanford, Me., was robbed of $588,000 in 2009 by ZeuS Trojan, a form of malware. “Our bank had no alarms to say, hey, over five consecutive nights, Patco’s wiring money all over the country — to California, Florida, places we don’t normally send money, and definitely not from an I.P. address outside the U.S.”

Owners should require multiple people to approve every transaction and should insist on “multifactor authentification,” or more than one way for a bank to confirm an owner’s identity before making a transfer. This necessitates approval through multiple channels, such as e-mail, text and verbal assurance by phone. Some banks require businesses to use a token, or secure ID card that generates new passwords that are valid for a very short time.

Businesses should also place limits on the amounts of all automated clearinghouse transactions. If a normal payroll transaction is capped at $65,000, a hacker will not be able to increase the amount when trying to take cash.

Still, Brian Krebs, a computer security authority who writes the blog Krebs On Security, insists these are not foolproof against sophisticated hackers. Mr. Krebs said the most effective way to guard against corporate account takeover was to dedicate one computer solely for online banking. Employees should never send e-mail or browse the Web from this machine.

MONITOR YOUR BALANCES In corporate account takeover, timing is everything. Cybercriminals, many of whom are based in Eastern Europe, move quickly, so business owners need to check accounts daily.

Karen McCarthy, the owner of Little & King, a marketing agency based in Great Neck, N.Y., discovered money missing from her account the day after it had been taken and immediately called her bank. But because it was a holiday, she said, the bank took more than a day to freeze her account. By then, $164,000 had been stolen.

Golden State Bridge was able to recover about $29,000, and Patco halted or clawed back about $200,000 from transfers processed within 24 hours of discovering the fraud. But money stolen the previous four days was gone for good. Mr. Patterson took his bank to court and lost. “This hurt a lot. If we hadn’t always been very conservative financially, it could have put us out of business,” he said. “Our legal fees are not recoverable either.”

BUY FRAUD INSURANCE Most unsuspecting owners do not own fraud insurance, and if they do, it includes only crimes like employee embezzlement.

Because Golden State Bridge had been hacked previously, in 2006 at a different bank, Ms. Talbot knew to buy insurance with a rider covering cybercrime and fraudulent bank transfers. “It’s very rare that policies have them,” she said. “I’ve talked to brokers who tell me only one in 10 business customers ask for it, and it’s cents on the dollar.”

For owners without fraud insurance, like Ms. McCarthy, the crime can be devastating. It derailed Little & King’s sale to a global marketing agency, which was scheduled to occur the day after hackers invaded in 2010. Ms. McCarthy took out a loan, slashed staff salaries and found cheaper office space, but that was not enough. “I didn’t have the funds to operate anymore, so I had to merge with another agency,” she said. “I lost my agency.”
454 2012-06-14 Among this refuse were 122-millimeter rockets containing Type 84 land mines, one of the most volatile weapons in Libya’s prewar stocks. Mr. Keerdo, a demining team leader, was surveying the police compound and apparently knelt near one of these rockets. At least one mine exploded, killing him instantly.

The accident was among the latest to underscore the problems related to Libya’s huge stockpiles of weapons.

Such accidents are not the only risk. The loose weapons are fuel for crime and violence between competing militias and against foreigners. In recent days, an American consulate and a British diplomatic car have been attacked. And persistent reports of smuggling — to dealers, insurgents or terrorists in Algeria, Chad, Egypt, Lebanon, Mali, Syria, Tunisia, the Palestinian territories and elsewhere — have circulated since last year.

The weapons and ordnance — poorly secured, unsecured or already smuggled out of the country — were among the many confounding inheritances of Libya’s new authorities, who have yet to coalesce into a central government. Libya is also dotted with minefields remaining from World War II and as many as 303 large, high-explosive duds from NATO’s air-to-ground campaign.

The problems are so extensive, according to the United Nations, that they have not been quantified.

No one yet knows how much modern ordnance Libya acquired from the 1950s, when King Idris began expanding what was then the country’s tiny military, or in the decades afterward, as Colonel Qaddafi’s security structure swelled in size and shopped for arms throughout the world. And no one knows how much remains, how much is scattered next to bunkers that NATO bombed, and how much found its way into makeshift depots, like the one in Ad Dafniyah.

“There just haven’t been enough people and assets to go everywhere and look at everything,” said Max Dyck, the program manager for the United Nations Mine Action Service in Libya.

Several nongovernmental organizations, working with the United Nations, have been destroying mines and ordnance since last year. In all, they have cleared 82 schools and nearly 3,000 houses and removed or destroyed more than 233,000 mines and pieces of ordnance through late May.

They have also been holding public awareness workshops, training Libyan deminers and hoping to begin work on the 303 confirmed or possible duds that NATO informed the United Nations this year that its warplanes had dropped.

With these many dangers still present, international aid groups have documented 109 accidents related to mines and unexploded ordnance since the war began last year. The accidents wounded 204 people, at least a quarter of them fatally, according to the United Nations’ data. But the data probably significantly understate the number of accidents, Mr. Dyck said.

Knut Furunes, who manages Danish Church Aid’s ordnance-clearance effort in Libya and released details of Mr. Keerdo’s death, said the chain of events that killed Mr. Keerdo, 31, underscored many problems.

Mr. Keerdo, he said, “was a reflective and mature man” who had encountered Type 84 mines in Libya before and understood their special dangers.

Mr. Furunes also suggested that for all of Libya’s dangers, the country, because of its oil wealth, had better prospects than many postconflict countries for cleaning up the most dangerous areas.

If a valid government forms, it should have the money to underwrite efforts to clean up and destroy excess stocks, he said.

For these reasons, he said, aid groups should concentrate on training Libyan explosive ordnance disposal teams and developing standards for their work.
455 2012-06-14 Q.     What do I do if my iPhone gets lost or stolen? Can Apple get it back with the serial number?...
456 2012-06-14 CHICAGO - There may be an opening for least-hated banker in America, and Lloyd C. Blankfein seems interested in applying.     On Wednesday, Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase and long Wall Street's fair-haired boy, appeared before ...
457 2012-06-15 Microsoft has been secretive about its product introduction event scheduled for Monday. It’s a lot like something Apple would do....
458 2012-06-15 Readers debate the merits of the target-date mutual funds that their employers have picked to put in their 401(k) or other workplace retirement plans....
459 2012-06-15 Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky on Friday accused President Obama, his campaign and his administration of engaging in tactics similar to those of the Nixon White House....
460 2012-06-15 On the first day of the inaugural edition of London Collections, the look for spring 2013 was black dress socks worn with shorts....
461 2012-06-15 Facebook, in a motion that seeks to consolidate several shareholder lawsuits, provided the first glimpse of the social network's defense of its bungled I.P.O. It is a defense built, in part, on Nasdaq's missteps....
462 2012-06-15 A famous pâtissier creates a dessert menu for the Japanese airlines All Nippon Airways....
463 2012-06-15 The BBC has introduced a series of video-game challenges for play on Apple devices, but it lacks some familiar, and beloved, personalities....
464 2012-06-15 With the shale oil boom promising over one million barrels a day of new oil production within a year in the United States, analysts are coming out of the woodwork to embrace falling oil prices. But all this is part of a normal cycle....
465 2012-06-15 Metdist, based in London and set up by Raj Bagri in 1970, could earn about £130 million, or $202 million, in the sale of London Metal Exchange to Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing....
466 2012-06-15 Rajat K. Gupta, a former Goldman Sachs board member, is the most prominent executive convicted in the government’s sweeping investigation into insider trading on Wall Street....
467 2012-06-15 Senator John McCain of Arizona suggested in an interview posted on Friday that a super PAC backing Republican candidate Mitt Romney may have provided a conduit for foreign money to enter the presidential race....
468 2012-06-15 After a day of wrestling the Olympic Club’s Lake course, the field at the United States Open returned for another go at its tilted fairways and diabolical greens in the second round....
469 2012-06-15 Greek elections and the future of the euro zone. | White-collar criminals face longer sentences. | Why you should be taking a break right now.
470 2012-06-15 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
471 2012-06-15 Wall Street’s allure may have dimmed for some of America’s sharpest young minds in recent years, but a quick look at the top of Dartmouth College’s class of 2012 shows that the appeal seems to remain strong. At its commencement on Sunday, Dartmouth recognized four valedictorians who graduated with perfect 4.0 grade-point averages. Three are headed to work on Wall Street at major investment banks, and one will go to the giant business consulting firm that advises them.

“Certain people have the view where finance is perceived in a more negative light,” said David Rogg, one of the valedictorians, noting that there was an active chapter of the Occupy movement on Dartmouth’s campus. “But a lot of people still find it to be a very positive industry.”

He has a job lined up at Goldman Sachs, as does another of the valedictorians, Jie Zhong; a third, Wills Begor, will go to Morgan Stanley. The other valedictorian, Glynnis Kearney, will work at McKinsey & Company.

Mr. Begor said some of his peers’ interest in Wall Street had diminished, “but for me, it’s an extension of the academic challenges at Dartmouth, to learn about finance, which is something we don’t get exposed to at a liberal arts college.”

And, he added, his job is for just two years; he has been accepted to Harvard Business School, starting in 2014.

Among last year’s Dartmouth graduates, 12 percent went into financial services, the third-leading field, close behind consulting and education. At other top schools, like Harvard and Princeton, finance remains the leading field, though its edge over other sectors has shrunk.

The similar career choices of Dartmouth’s valedictorians were a bit of a coincidence. Of this year’s two winners of Harvard’s Sophia Freund Prize for highest grade-point average, one is going to medical school and the other to law school. Princeton’s lone valedictorian will work in medical research.
472 2012-06-15 The Asian firm outbid several American rivals for control of the 135-year-old London exchange....
473 2012-06-15 “If there’s ever any new information on these deaths, the F.B.I. will of course take a look at that information,” said Kyle A. Loven, an F.B.I. spokesman. Absent that, he added, “the F.B.I. does not have any intention of reopening these cases just to reopen them.”

But William Means, a former American Indian Movement leader, said that because the federal government has declined to make its case files public, relatives of the dead have been left in limbo.

“Justice is always important,” Mr. Means said. “The families have never had any type of explanation.”

The early 1970s was a dark, confused time on Pine Ridge, reflecting the turmoil in much of the rest of the United States. On Pine Ridge, the American Indian Movement’s attempt to oust Richard A. Wilson, the tribal president, led to sporadic warfare between AIM members and the Guardians of the Oglala Nation, a paramilitary organization known as GOONs, organized by Mr. Wilson.

The federal government was frequently forced into the role of peacemaker — and occasionally, combatant. At least two F.B.I. agents were among those killed at Pine Ridge during the violence, which was, at the time, propulsive.

From 1973 to 1976, the homicide rate on Pine Ridge was 170 for every 100,000 people, according to the tribe. By comparison, Detroit, which was among the nation’s most violent big cities, had a rate of about 50 per 100,000 in 1974.

An F.B.I. review in 2000 of 57 deaths during the era of the reign of terror concluded that many deaths deemed suspicious by the tribe had not been murders. Among them was the case of John S. Moore, an American Indian Movement supporter found in December 1974 with stab wounds to his face and neck. A coroner ruled the death a suicide, a decision the F.B.I. has not challenged.

But Lisa R. Shellenberger, a lawyer for the tribe, said the 1975 murders of the F.B.I. agents on the reservation had “bred deep mistrust” between the Oglala Sioux and the F.B.I., which she says may have affected the quality of the original criminal investigations and colored subsequent inquiries. Leonard Peltier, an American Indian Movement member, was eventually convicted of the agents’ murders.

The tribe’s recent list of 28 deaths include cases that span a period from the politically volatile 1970s to recent years, when the vast majority of homicides on Pine Ridge have been related to alcohol consumption. The reservation remains inundated by violent crime, with a rate at least five times higher than the national average.

Tom Poor Bear, the tribe’s vice president, is among those whose lives have spanned Pine Ridge’s bloody eras: He was wounded on the reservation in the ’70s, shot in the head by people he describes as “political opponents.” Mr. Poor Bear did not report the shooting to the authorities, believing that crimes committed against AIM members would not be taken seriously by the F.B.I. or by the tribal government, which he says were closely aligned. Twenty-five years later, in 1999, his brother and a cousin were found beaten to death, a case the tribe wants reopened. “Our people are being murdered,” Mr. Poor Bear said, “and nothing is being done.”

Among the other cases the tribe wants reopened is the 1975 death of Hilda R. Good Buffalo, another American Indian Movement supporter, who was discovered dead inside her home — also with a stab wound in her neck. According to the 2000 F.B.I. review of the case, investigators also found evidence that a fire had broken out in her house. Her death, the F.B.I. report said, had been caused by carbon monoxide poisoning, acute alcoholism “and other factors.”

The next spring, in May 1976, Julia Pretty Hips, an American Indian Movement member, was found dead outside a Pine Ridge school. She died of pneumonia caused by carbon tetrachloride poisoning, according to the F.B.I. (Carbon tetrachloride was once commonly used for dry cleaning and in fire extinguishers, among other things.)

In May 1975, Ben Sitting Up, another American Indian Movement member, was killed by a blow from a hatchet. But after federal agents identified a suspect, the killer “was not prosecuted because of impairment caused by a mental condition,” according to the F.B.I. case review.

The F.B.I. however, has not disclosed the nature of the suspect’s impairment, why the suspect’s ability to stand trial was not left for a court to decide or whether the suspect was a threat to kill again.

Tribal leaders say the case of Anna Mae Pictou Aquash, a high-ranking American Indian Movement member, illustrates the sloppiness of death investigations on Pine Ridge.

Ms. Aquash’s decomposing body was discovered in a field in 1976. A coroner ruled her death had been caused by exposure to the cold. But after Ms. Aquash’s family demanded a second autopsy, she was found to have been shot behind the left ear. It was not until 28 years later, in 2004, that the first of two men was convicted in her death.

For years, rumors have swirled that Ms. Aquash’s killers had been federal agents. But in 2004, evidence showed the men had been American Indian Movement members who believed she was an F.B.I. informant.
474 2012-06-15 Nick Watney holed out from the fairway for a double eagle at the par-5 17th at the United States Open....
475 2012-06-15 Wall Street’s allure may have dimmed for some of America’s sharpest young minds in recent years, but a quick look at the top of Dartmouth College’s class of 2012 shows that the appeal seems to remain strong. At its commencement on Sunday, Dartmouth recognized four valedictorians who graduated with perfect 4.0 grade-point averages. Three are headed to work on Wall Street at major investment banks, and one will go to the giant business consulting firm that advises them.

“Certain people have the view where finance is perceived in a more negative light,” said David Rogg, one of the valedictorians, noting that there was an active chapter of the Occupy movement on Dartmouth’s campus. “But a lot of people still find it to be a very positive industry.”

He has a job lined up at Goldman Sachs, as does another of the valedictorians, Jie Zhong; a third, Wills Begor, will go to Morgan Stanley. The other valedictorian, Glynnis Kearney, will work at McKinsey & Company.

Mr. Begor said some of his peers’ interest in Wall Street had diminished, “but for me, it’s an extension of the academic challenges at Dartmouth, to learn about finance, which is something we don’t get exposed to at a liberal arts college.”

And, he added, his job is for just two years; he has been accepted to Harvard Business School, starting in 2014.

Among last year’s Dartmouth graduates, 12 percent went into financial services, the third-leading field, close behind consulting and education. At other top schools, like Harvard and Princeton, finance remains the leading field, though its edge over other sectors has shrunk.

The similar career choices of Dartmouth’s valedictorians were a bit of a coincidence. Of this year’s two winners of Harvard’s Sophia Freund Prize for highest grade-point average, one is going to medical school and the other to law school. Princeton’s lone valedictorian will work in medical research.
476 2012-06-15 He added, “Hopefully, this will be looked back upon as a common-sense approach.”

To traditionalists, football without contact is comparable to swimming without water. But with a number of studies now detailing football’s link to brain injuries, some parents may conclude that playing the sport is not worth the risk to their children.

Stefan Duma, the head of the biomedical engineering department at Virginia Tech, oversaw the research published in February that prompted Pop Warner to issue its rules changes. The study, the first of its kind for participants that young, placed sensors in the helmets of seven youth football players ages 6 to 8 during their 2011 season. Calling it a pilot, Duma expected the impacts to be too inconsequential to record.

Results showed that about 95 percent of the impacts were between 15 and 20 g’s — what Duma likened to an “aggressive pillow fight.” The other 5 percent spiked to 50 to 100 g’s — what Duma characterized as a “car accident.”

Duma noted that collegiate and professional football players had a low risk for concussions at 100 g’s. But research has shown that the damage from concussions can be cumulative, and that the brains of younger athletes may be particularly susceptible. So Pop Warner tried to lessen the number of impacts by reducing incidents in practice, when a majority of the “car accidents” took place, according to Duma.

This fall, Duma will participate in a joint research project with Virginia Tech and Wake Forest that will more thoroughly evaluate six teams, about 300 players ages 6 to 13, as a follow-up to better understand the pilot project. Research has been difficult to quantify, Duma said, because “no one knows how many times or how hard players have been hit.” Until recently, it was common to hide or minimize concussions.

“There has to be scientific data that makes that decision,” he said about making changes in football. “It can’t be a group of people telling stories of how they used to play football. You’ve got to actually quantify what drills are causing what level head impact, and target those, and minimize those.”

Kevin Guskiewicz, a friend of Bailes, is the founding director of the Matthew Gfeller Sport-Related Traumatic Brain Injury Research Center at the University of North Carolina. He said he believed contact was a necessary ingredient for youth football. Without contact, he said, players might be unprepared to face competition from bigger athletes at the high school level, which could cause “serious catastrophic injury.”

Guskiewicz, as part of the National Sport Concussion Outcomes Study Consortium, which includes U.C.L.A., Michigan and the Medical College of Wisconsin, is waiting on a grant that would allow the consortium to track, over a number of years, the effect of head impacts on youth football players. The consortium already has a grant from the N.C.A.A. to conduct a similar study at the collegiate level.

“There’s much more that we don’t know, than what we do know,” Guskiewicz said about football’s impact on head injuries. Pop Warner has decided to wait for more definitive proof before issuing even more restrictive rules. Guskiewicz said it could take another four or five years before research determines the short-term effects, and the length of an adult life to determine the resulting cause of depression or dementia.

“You can do the math on that one,” he said.

Butler, Pop Warner’s executive director, estimated that if the country’s largest youth football organization were to outlaw all contact and go to a flag-football approach, about 90 to 95 percent of the players would leave and find tackle football elsewhere. He also predicted they would sustain concussions in other sports.

“We can’t wrap them in bubble wrap,” he said. “It just doesn’t work that way.”
477 2012-06-15 Greek yogurt now accounts for 35 percent of total American yogurt sales, according to a report by Bernstein Research, part of AllianceBernstein, up from 30 percent last year and only 4 percent as recently as 2008. Chobani, sold by Agro Farma, leads the Greek yogurt segment with a market share of 47.3 percent, according to the report, followed by products from Groupe Danone, at 19.7 percent, and the Fage brand from Fage Dairy Industry, at 13.9 percent.

The children’s yogurt market is as competitive as the adult market. Chobani Champions faces rivals like Danimals and Dan-o-nino, from the Dannon Company division of Groupe Danone; YoBaby, YoKids and YoKids Greek, from the Stonyfield Farm unit of Groupe Danone; and Yoplait Kids, Trix and Go-Gurt, from General Mills.

The Chobani strategy is encapsulated in the “Win the day” theme, said Doron Stern, vice president for marketing at Agro Farma in New Berlin, N.Y., in that “it talks to the insight that moms, and to some degree dads, struggle with choices for products for their children.”

Parents want products that are healthy, to make them happy, and tasty, for “happy kids,” he added. “We can offer both.”

Ms. Finch’s role in the commercial echoes the casting of the commercials for Chobani, Mr. Stern said, which feature “real people” like a student from Cortland, N.Y., and an office worker from Richmond, Va.

The Chobani Champions commercial begins with a couple of lighthearted nods to the athletic prowess of Ms. Finch, who calls herself, tongue in cheek, “a typical mom.” In one scene, she stops at a booth at an amusement park and knocks over enough bottles to win Ace a giant stuffed bear. Then, at his baseball game, she casually catches and tosses a ball without paying much attention.

“And just like any typical mom, I’m thrilled when my champion loves to eat something nutritious like Chobani Champions yogurt,” Ms. Finch says.

The spot ends with Ms. Finch proudly placing Ace’s (tiny) trophy on a mantel in a living room, in between her Olympic medals.

“So even though I’m an Olympian,” she says, “around here I’m just another mom trying to help her champion win the day.”

The humorous tack is important, said Jay Benjamin, chief creative officer at Leo Burnett New York, because “while these products are healthy products, they should still be able to have fun.”

Without that, he added, they risk being perceived as too serious or self-important, in the vein of an oft-quoted New Yorker cartoon from 1928 in which a daughter tells her mother at the dinner table, “I say it’s spinach, and I say the hell with it.”

“We loved the idea” of basing the commercial on the premise that Ms. Finch “may be an Olympic medalist,” Mr. Benjamin said, “but like every mom she’s facing the same challenge: feeding her kids.”

As for plans with Ms. Finch after the 2012 Summer Olympics, “I’m sure we’ll be seeing more of her,” he said, because she is “a great ambassador for the brand.”

Agro Farma also has big plans for the Chobani brand, which include a second plant to join one in New Berlin. A job fair for the new plant, in Twin Falls, Idaho, recently drew hundreds of applicants.

As for additional new products, “we have a lot of innovative, exciting ideas cooking up in our labs,” Mr. Stern said.
478 2012-06-15 Earlier this spring, Lance Armstrong said he would not fight any more doping charges that cropped up against him because he was tired of it. But now that the United States Anti-Doping Agency is set to bring formal charges against him, it appears that he has changed his mind.

One of Armstrong’s lawyers, Robert D. Luskin, sent a letter to the antidoping agency late Wednesday, aggressively questioning its evidence that Armstrong violated antidoping rules. He said the agency had an obsession with Armstrong and had “lost any semblance of independence, neutrality or fair play.” He criticized it for saying Armstrong refused to meet with antidoping officials to discuss the case, when, he said, Armstrong was actually ready to cooperate.

“I can’t say any of this — this ridiculous acceptance of allegations unsupported by evidence, your rush to punish first and adjudicate later, or your egregious mischaracterization of our interactions last week — surprises us,” Luskin wrote.

Armstrong, who retired from cycling last year and has taken up triathlons, told Men’s Journal earlier this spring that he was “truly done” with battling the doping accusations that have followed him for more than a decade.

“I’m not contesting anything,” he said. “Case closed.”

But on Wednesday, Armstrong, who was barred from competing in an Ironman triathlon in France on June 24 by the race organizer, did not act like a man giving up, telling The Associated Press that he was “exploring all my options.”
479 2012-06-15 “Personally, I’m troubled by the fact that Fresenius on its own initiative didn’t notify its entire customer base of this particular concern,” Steven Silverman, director of compliance for the F.D.A.’s medical devices division, said in an interview this week.

Mr. Silverman said the agency could issue a warning letter to Fresenius if it determined the company should have reported the safety concerns. But even if the company had no legal obligation, he said, “Candidly, I just think it’s bad business and not in the interest of public health to sit on information about risks.”

Dr. Thomas F. Parker III, chief medical officer at Renal Ventures, a dialysis chain that uses Fresenius products, agreed. “If the data was sufficient to warn their doctors, then all users of the product should have been made aware of it,” he said.

Dr. Franklin W. Maddux, the chief medical officer for Fresenius in North America, said his office, which wrote the memo, was in charge of the company’s own centers and had no way of communicating with noncompany clinics except through papers in medical journals. He said the findings of the internal memo were too preliminary to warrant a publication.

“I felt that it was not in a condition for general consumption,” he said in an interview.

But Fresenius’s products division, which sells GranuFlo, could have communicated with customers. A company spokesman said that the division did not think a notice was necessary because the internal memo did not contain specific reports of adverse events related to GranuFlo.

The existence of the internal memo and subsequent controversy was first reported by RenalWEB, a Web site devoted to dialysis. RenalWEB estimated that 125,000 patients in non-Fresenius clinics are treated with GranuFlo.

Dialysis takes the place of the kidneys in clearing toxic waste from the blood. Part of this involves providing bicarbonate, an alkaline substance, to neutralize the acid that builds up in the blood.

GranuFlo performs different functions. But it contains an ingredient that the body converts to bicarbonate, and it contains more of this ingredient than rival products.

Many doctors apparently have not been accounting for this extra bicarbonate contribution from GranuFlo when deciding how much bicarbonate to prescribe separately. The result can be, in effect, an overdose of bicarbonate, which some recent studies have suggested could lead to heart problems.

The Fresenius memo, dated Nov. 4, found that 941 patients had suffered cardiac arrest inside Fresenius clinics in 2010. By comparing these patients with others, the company’s medical staff concluded that patients with high levels of bicarbonate in their blood had about six times the risk of cardiac arrest as those with lower levels.

Fresenius has its defenders. Dr. Richard Ward, a professor of medicine at the University of Louisville, said that GranuFlo’s label provides enough information for doctors to figure out how to adjust dosing appropriately. “There are a lot of people who have a responsibility here in using a product how it is meant to be used,” he said. “To dump all the responsibility on the manufacturer is not quite right.”

After Fresenius notified its customers in late March, the F.D.A. issued an alert in late May that applied to all products like GranuFlo.

Dialysis centers across the nation are now checking bicarbonate levels in patients and adjusting doses if necessary.

Dr. Daniel Coyne, director of hemodialysis at Washington University in St. Louis, said 30 percent of the patients there had bicarbonate levels in their blood that were too high.

“A four- to sixfold increased risk of in-center cardiac arrest is very concerning,” Dr. Coyne said in an e-mail. “My partners are all trying to figure out a fix to this problem.”
480 2012-06-15 Vera Shelby, director of Healing Estranged Relationships, a support group with chapters in Texas and Colorado, said estrangement has its own stages of grief. “This is almost worse than death, because when they are estranged from you, they aren’t gone,” said Mrs. Shelby, 67, whose daughter refused to speak to her for four years. (Unlike Mrs. Shelby, most people interviewed for this article who are estranged from their parents or children did not want their full names used.)

A woman named Mary, a county employee in Florida, has endured two long stretches when her daughter has stopped speaking to her. The first, starting in 1997, was heartbreaking, but she said it was not as agonizing as their current 10-month stalemate.

“I didn’t know all those months and years what she was doing,” Mary said, adding that her daughter cut her off because she disapproved of her boyfriend. “It was easier because there were no reminders.”

In 2005, they reconciled for six years, but the daughter, who is now married to that boyfriend and has a young child, again stopped speaking to her 10 months ago for reasons Mary does not understand. Mary, who joined Facebook in 2008, now squirms when she checks her news feed.

“You’re watching other people enjoying your daughter and the grandchild you’re supposed to have, and you’re left out in the cold,” Mary said. “I have to watch pictures of my grandson — that I didn’t get — on my daughter’s sister-in-law’s page.”

Their rift also plays out in front of relatives and friends, in a humiliating way. When Mary’s 21-year-old son took his sister’s side and cut off contact for a few months, he not only removed her from his friends list but also disowned her on Facebook. “It was a blank little ghost where his face used to be on my profile,” she said.

Some parents said they could not help but check up on their estranged children online, searching for clues to unlock the mystery of why they have been cut off. If a parent’s child has blocked them on Facebook, they might send a “friend” request to their child’s acquaintances, follow them on Twitter or do Internet searches to find out where their grandchildren attend school.

“This is a common question on my Web site — whether it’s more painful to sneak views on Facebook or not, or just to stay away altogether,” said Elizabeth Vagnoni, a documentary filmmaker who runs an online discussion forum for parents with estranged children — currently with more than 2,200 members — at estrangedstories.ning.com. She went through bouts of silence with her mother over a decade, and now has two estranged sons of her own. “I now live with knowing exactly how I made my mother feel,” Mrs. Vagnoni said.

For those who hope to reconcile, the online sleuthing can backfire if it is perceived as spying, said Monica McGoldrick, a family therapist and the director of the Multicultural Family Institute in Highland Park, N.J. For a mother, she said, “If ever there comes a day where she and her daughter get to have a conversation, what is she going to say?”

People who use social media are often aware that their estranged relatives are watching. A decade ago, Jessica, a 27-year-old Manhattan resident who works for a marketing company, stopped talking with her father, an alcoholic, after much turmoil. (Shortly after he remarried when she was 10, she called him and said, “You can divorce your wives, but you can’t divorce your children.” His reply, she recalled: “I wish I could.”)

She sends Twitter messages for work and for fun, and knows through other relatives that her father is keeping up with her — her vegan diet, her travel schedule, her social life. It angers her, even though she acknowledges anyone can see her posts.

“I didn’t want him to be telling extended family that stuff he was learning online about me because 140 characters don’t tell the whole story,” she said. Armed with details, he had misrepresented to his mother — with whom Jessica talks often —how close he was to her.

“That’s been a frustration,” she said. “That’s when I realized how creepy the digital space is.”

After reconnecting with her biological father in 2008, Lori, an adoptee in Brooklyn, grew increasingly concerned and then alarmed by the aggressive tone of his e-mails, in which he accused her of disrespect and not staying in touch.

She ultimately decided to end all contact in 2009. She blocked his phone calls and e-mails, denied her father’s Facebook request and dropped his niece as a Facebook friend. Lori, 37, still agonizes about the decision. “I have a lot of guilt about breaking up,” she said, but added, “I don’t owe it to him to stay his pseudodaughter.”

Sometimes people use social media to snipe at one another from afar. Mark Sichel, a Manhattan psychotherapist who wrote “Healing From Family Rifts,” said that a client’s son had posted details on Facebook this month about their falling out. Mr. Sichel has also counseled a bickering couple whose sunny Facebook postings are calculated to annoy the husband’s estranged mother. Their online persona, he said, is “a charade.”

Often estrangement does not sever just one relationship, but forces relatives to choose sides, leading to other rifts — for instance, birthday cards sent by a grandparent might never be passed on to grandchildren.

In this context, social media does offer hope that estrangement does not necessarily have to have a ripple effect.

“Say your sibling doesn’t talk to you, but has grown children; you can ‘friend’ them on the Internet,” Dr. McGoldrick said. Her philosophy: “Even if somebody chooses not to have a relationship with me, no one has a right to tell me who I can’t have a relationship with.”

Mr. Sichel, whose parents cut him off in 2001, is skeptical. “I don’t think Facebook helps heal family relationships,” he said. “It just adds a new dimension of gossip, hearsay and visuals.”

One possible solution is to simply close Facebook accounts to avoid the pain. But that is hard to do in practice. “It scares me to close it down,” said Mary, whose heart sank when she watched a recent video of her grandson and heard him giggling.

“In a weird way, I feel I can make some sort of connection even if it’s through a glass screen,” she added. “I know it’s not real, but it’s my last little thread that I’m holding on to.”
481 2012-06-15 The transition to managed care this spring was bumpy, with numerous computer errors and miscommunications between the State Health and Human Services Commission, pharmacists and the pharmacy benefit managers.

Although the state said that the program has become more stable and that the health plans quickly resolved the problems, many independent pharmacists — particularly those who serve a high volume of Medicaid patients — are still upset. They say the drastically reduced reimbursement rates set by the managed care plans to save the state money are forcing them out of business.

“I can’t pay my employees; I can’t pay my light bill,” said Mr. Barrett, who estimated that the overhaul decreased his revenue by 65 percent. He is currently living on his savings, he said. “I have no earthly idea why the Legislature thinks that this is acceptable.”

Texas lawmakers, who expect to save $100 million in the 2012-13 biennium by including prescription drugs in managed care, have held hearings to address pharmacists’ concerns. The Health and Human Services Commission is conducting an audit to evaluate the reimbursement rates.

Under the old Medicaid system, the rates were the same statewide. Now, pharmacists sign managed-care contracts agreeing to accept the “maximum allowable cost” reimbursement for medications, as determined by the health plan’s pharmacy benefit manager. Because the rates are proprietary information and are not subject to open-records laws, pharmacists do not know before signing a contract how much a health plan will reimburse or how its rates compare with those of other plans before signing a contract.

Stephanie Goodman, a spokeswoman for the commission, said that the decrease in reimbursement rates is “very much in line” with what the agency expected, and that it is the same for independent and chain pharmacies. The average dispensing fee paid to pharmacists for Medicaid prescriptions dropped from $7.13 to $1.53 in the new system, and pharmacists received $12.7 million less in dispensing fees in the first month than they would have under the previous system.

John Calvillo, president of the Rio Grande Valley Independent Pharmacy Association, said he has a list of 26 independent pharmacies that have closed or been sold to retail chains since the managed care changes. He said that CVS Caremark is largely to blame because it has the lowest reimbursement rates of the five managed care plans he accepts. And, he contended, it appears to be trying to poach independent pharmacies.

“In my opinion, it’s kind of a little conspiracy and the state is allowing this to happen,” Mr. Calvillo said.

In a memo distributed to CVS pharmacies in Dallas in March, Craig Goodson, a CVS supervisor, told pharmacists that the reduced dispensing fees might “put many independent pharmacy owners in a pinch that they have never before felt.” He asked CVS pharmacists to keep their “eyes and ears open” and pass along information on how the changes were affecting independent pharmacies. “This poses a huge opportunity for us to grow our company and the scripts and patients that we service,” he wrote.

Michael DeAngelis, a spokesman for CVS Caremark, said in an e-mail to The Texas Tribune that the company had not authorized Mr. Goodson to send the memo. Mr. DeAngelis added that “reductions to the Medicaid reimbursement rate in Texas are the same for both independently owned drugstores and retail chain pharmacies.”

The state contracts with managed care organizations include language requiring pharmacy benefit managers connected to a retail pharmacy, like CVS Caremark, to “ensure no conflicts of interest exist and ensure the confidentiality of proprietary information.”

Christine Cramer, a CVS Caremark spokeswoman, said the company “maintains a firewall between our pharmacy service business and retail operations to prevent the dissemination of certain competitively sensitive information.” She also disputed allegations that CVS Caremark’s rates are particularly low, saying the company sets “competitive rates that balance the need to fairly compensate pharmacies while providing a cost-effective benefit to our client plan.”

Ms. Goodman said it is difficult to determine whether the reduced reimbursement rates have caused independent pharmacies to close or sell to chains. She said the closings have not affected Medicaid recipients’ access to care because 39 more pharmacies signed up to accept Medicaid patients after the overhaul.

Ultimately, expanding managed care will increase efficiency and reduce costs, said Bill Hammond, president of the Texas Association of Business, which counts CVS Caremark and other managed care companies as members.

If some pharmacies “are not able to operate under the new model, then it’s unfortunate, but that’s the way it should be,” Mr. Hammond said. “The concern should be with the taxpayer dollars being spent well.” (The Texas Association of Business is a corporate sponsor of The Texas Tribune.)

Many independent pharmacists support the state’s effort to save money. But they say that rather than adding a pharmacy benefit manager into the equation, the state could require patients to use less-expensive generic drugs, directly reduce reimbursement rates or set lower caps on patients’ supplies.

“Putting a middleman in between the state and people that actually dispense the drugs always increases the costs,” Mr. Barrett said. “They’re paying themselves out of the money that we should be due.”
482 2012-06-15 Senior officials of Cyprus said Thursday that the government could seek a European Union bailout to support its struggling banks in the coming days and at the latest by the end of the month, even as they indicated the country was continuing to pursue other options, including a possible bilateral loan from Russia.

Andreas D. Mavroyiannis, deputy minister for European affairs, said in an interview on Thursday that “all the cards were on the table.” But he acknowledged that Cyprus’s extensive exposure to Greece threatened to unhinge the country’s economy should Greece leave the euro zone.

“The spotlight is on Greece for us, too,” he said. “Cyprus is vulnerable because of our exposure to Greece. If Greece goes down, Cyprus could go down with it.” But Mr. Mavroyiannis emphasized that the scale of the economic problems in Cyprus paled in comparison with those in Greece and that its economy was better positioned to weather the crisis.

The cautious optimism came after Moody’s Investors Service pushed Cyprus deeper into junk status on Wednesday with a two-notch downgrade of its credit rating because of intensifying concerns that Greece would leave the euro zone, potentially raising the amount of money Cyprus would need to support its banking sector, which is heavily exposed to Greece. It also placed the ratings on review for a further possible downgrade.

Cyprus Popular Bank, the country’s second-largest financial institution, formerly known as Marfin Popular Bank, has been seeking 1.8 billion euros, or $2.25 billion, in new money after being devastated by its exposure to bad Greek debt. Cypriot banks had outstanding loans or other money at risk totaling 152 billion euros, or eight times the size of the country’s gross domestic product, according to the International Monetary Fund.

The Russian government has already given Cyprus a 2.5 billion euro three-year loan at a below-market rate of 4.5 percent to help it service its debt. Officials said Cyprus was determined to avoid the draconian conditions imposed on other European countries that have received bailouts, including Greece, Ireland and Spain. It is especially keen to maintain its 10 percent corporate tax rate, which has made it a magnet for foreign investment.
483 2012-06-15 Those high rates brought a flood of money coursing into Germany. The mark rose nearly 20 percent against the American dollar during the spring and summer. Since other European currencies were pegged to the mark, with only a small margin of wiggle room, they also rose, damaging countries’ ability to compete in world markets. To maintain the peg, those countries were forced to raise interest rates when their economies were already weak, worsening the domestic situations.

Speculators concluded that the pegs could not last. Huge short sales of Italian lire and British pounds forced the governments to spend foreign exchange reserves to support their currencies.

In September first Britain and then Italy abandoned the peg. Their currencies depreciated rapidly. In due course, others followed. The British blamed the Germans for their high interest rates. The Germans rejected that. “One-sided accusations of responsibility are beside the point,” said Germany’s chancellor, Helmut Kohl.

The lesson of the 1992 debacle was aptly summed up by C. Fred Bergsten, the director of what later became the Peterson Institute for International Economics. “If governments try to do inconsistent things, such as maintaining an exchange rate and not having policies that back up that rate, then the exchange rates get knocked off.”

The lesson many Europeans learned was a different one — that common currencies had to be rigid, so there was no possibility of an attack on a weak currency by speculators.

Europe had already agreed, in the Maastricht Treaty signed early that year, to seek a course of eventual currency union, with details to be worked out later. The rules called for the countries to pursue complementary economic policies, but lacked any real enforcement mechanism. There was to be no way for a country to leave the euro zone. Once in, countries were to stay forever.

Conceivably, Germany learned three things from the 1992 experience, and mapped out a course with those lessons in mind. First, absent fixed exchange rates, its export-oriented companies faced the risk of periodic competitive devaluations from the rest of Europe. German exports had peaked in 1990, and did not fully recover until 1994. They would not fall again for an entire year until 2010, after the credit crisis devastated world trade.

Second, a currency union could help German exports if the euro’s value were held down by less competitive economies. Italy had been forced repeatedly to devalue the lira as rising costs made its exports too expensive. A common currency would not stop the rising costs, but it would prevent a new devaluation.

Finally, if Germany adopted a low-interest-rate policy, and superlow rates arrived in European nations accustomed to high rates, banks could open the credit spigot and create a debt-financed boom in much of Europe. That would invite a mushrooming of imbalances. Ultimately, deeply indebted countries would face a crisis, one that they could solve only if they acquiesced to German policies and surrendered a large part of national sovereignty.

In July 1992, the Bundesbank raised its key interest rate by 75 basis points, to 8.75 percent, perhaps sealing the fate of the lira and pound. It reversed part of that increase in September, but that was a case of too little, too late for Britain and Italy. Over the next few years, it cut the rate repeatedly. It was at 2.5 percent by the time the euro was inaugurated and the new European Central Bank took over responsibility.

As the years went on, Germany held down its wage costs. Its exports boomed as European neighbors used borrowed money to buy German goods. German banks helped to finance housing bubbles in the periphery — usually not directly, but through loans to other banks.

In hindsight, the critical moment in the crisis may have been when Ireland’s banks failed in early 2009. Had the Irish government taken the position that it would stand behind deposits, but that loans made to the banks would be allowed to default, German banks would have been in trouble, and probably would have needed to be bailed out by the German government.

Instead, the Irish government chose to guarantee all the banks’ obligations — a commitment it could not afford. Ireland had been running budget surpluses, but now it needed to be bailed out. The German prescription for Ireland, as it would be for the other countries that soon got into difficulty, was austerity. Since they could not devalue their currency, countries would have to reduce wages and raise taxes. Germany categorically rejected the idea of allowing its own inflation to rise, a move that could take some of the pressure off the troubled countries.

The last several years have been a time of repeated crises, with Germany appearing to be rigid until, at the last moment, it agrees to something to avert disaster without actually doing anything to allow the troubled countries’ economies to grow.

The European Central Bank gave cheap loans to banks to enable them to buy their own countries’ bonds, and they did. In the process, that allowed many foreign investors, including German banks, to bail out. As depositors grew worried and withdrew money from banks in troubled countries, the European Central Bank made up the difference by lending money to national central banks — and borrowing from the Bundesbank. The effect has been to relieve the German private sector at the expense of the public sector.

The endgame may be approaching. Troubled countries are facing an increasingly clear choice. They can stay in the euro zone, and face years of endless recession. They can abandon the euro, perhaps bringing catastrophe but giving them the freedom to devalue their new currencies. Or they can accept the German offer: Surrender sovereignty. Accept German leadership and domination of a unified Europe. Then we will bail you out.

If Europe does not accept the offer, and the euro disintegrates, it is hard to know how it will play out. There are, by design, no rules about how the euro zone could be untangled. But after the dust settled, Germany would be among the losers. A new German mark would no doubt be much stronger than the euro is now, making life a lot harder for German exporters. That reality has led some in Europe to think that Germany is bluffing, and that it will continue to pay the bill even if it cannot get what it wants.

That has angered Germans. “A Game of Euro Chicken” was the headline on a commentary by Jan Fleischhauer in last week’s edition of Der Spiegel, the German magazine. “For Germany, being part of the European Union has always included an element of blackmail,” he wrote. “France has been playing this card from the beginning, but now the Spanish and the Greeks have mastered the game. They’re banking on Berlin losing its nerve.”

The Greek election on Sunday will be fascinating to watch. The leftist party led by Alexis Tsipras finished second in the inconclusive May election by offering to reject austerity and stay in the euro zone. That is an alternative not being offered by the rest of Europe. If Mr. Tsipras wins this election, there could be a showdown. But if the establishment parties recover enough support to form a government, then the play could continue, with Greece — now in its fifth year of economic decline — trying to cut spending without destroying the country. If there is again no election winner, there is no telling what will happen.

The euro was supposed to seal European integration and prosperity and assure that never again would the Continent begin a world war. Whether or not it manages to survive, the common currency has instead fostered anger, recession and resentment. Greeks and others see in this a German conspiracy. Germans see a conspiracy to force them to pay for the continuing sins of others.

If this flies out of control, the world economy may well be the loser, regardless of whether any of those conspiracies actually existed.
484 2012-06-15 “Leaving the ceiling unchanged takes the issue off the table,” said Frank Verrastro, director of the energy and national security program and the Center for Strategic and International Studies, in a phone interview. “Doing nothing is easy.”

The OPEC spigot on member countries’ output is the main instrument for controlling prices and wielding the cartel’s power, but it works imperfectly. Members often pump more oil than the ceiling allows, as is the case now.

The decision would be a positive trend for oil-importing countries. The current OPEC limit is 30 million barrels a day, but the cartel’s members in May pumped 31.86 million barrels a day, according to the International Energy Agency, a Paris-based group representing developed market energy importing nations. Over the last months, output from OPEC members rose, even as the insolvency of Greece threatened the European economies and whittled away at demand.

Saudi Arabia has said it is concerned, as is the United States, that higher oil prices would tip the world into recession. This position costs the kingdom little, as it makes up for lower prices by selling more oil.

Saudi Arabia also increased output in anticipation of Western sanctions curtailing Iran’s oil production that take effect in the second half of this year.

The price of Brent crude oil, the main European benchmark, dropped to $97 a barrel this week after reaching a peak of $128 in March. The average price obtained by OPEC members was $95.95 on Wednesday, the organization said on its Web site.

United States crude oil prices are lower still, with the benchmark closing at just under $84 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange Thursday, because of a glut of domestic oil production in the Midwest and limited pipeline capacity.

The calm meeting was a sharp contrast to the OPEC meeting of almost a year ago, which ended in disarray when ministers were unable to reach consensus to raise oil production levels, leaving existing quotas in place by default. At the last meeting in December, Saudi Arabia and Iran put aside their differences and increased the production target.

OPEC’s lack of action this time around would leave Iran facing the dual problem of reduced prices and lower volumes to export once European Union sanctions take effect in July. “It’s a double whammy” for Iran, Mr. Verrastro said.

The Saudis, in contrast, pushed past a decade-old record this spring for output at 10.1 million barrels a day, at least temporarily surpassing Russia as the nation producing the most oil in the world. Saudi Arabia still has a spare capacity of 1.88 million barrels of oil a day.

Iran’s minister of oil, Rostam Qasemi, told reporters this week that Iran objected to the recent price swoon but would not argue to lower the current production limit; Iran initially called for lowering the ceiling, but backed away, apparently because of lack of support within OPEC.
485 2012-06-15 Following the devastations of war and the upheavals of early-20th-century avant-gardism, the 1920s brought a reassuring revival of traditional, classicist aesthetics. The 25 works by six Americans — five of them immigrants — nicely displayed on pedestals in “The Figure in Modern Sculpture” reflect that tidal change. The show was organized by Kenneth Wayne, now deputy director for curatorial affairs at the Noguchi Museum.

While unmistakably modern, Gaston Lachaise’s bronzes seem archaic too. His free-standing, heroically buxom Amazon in a clinging dress (1919) and voluptuous nude torso (1928) are like monuments for an ancient matriarchal cult.

Alexander Archipenko’s streamlined, headless and armless female figures in bronze, plaster and aluminum, dating from 1912 to 1936, are comparatively generic.

More compellingly, Elie Nadelman combined a dapper classicism and folksy idiosyncrasy. His larger-than-life bronze head of a man in a top hat (1914) and a cherry-wood girl in a short skirt (1918-1920) are sophisticated and funky.

Carved from wood slabs, Chaim Gross’s sculptures of a couple dancing to jazz, from 1929, and a pair of female circus acrobats in levitating action (1942) also resemble works of folk art, though they lack the fashionable elegance of Nadelman’s works.

A suave, contained Cubism persists in a gleaming, blocky bronze “Gendarme” (1919), by John Storrs, the lone native-born American, and in Jacques Lipchitz’s Picasso-like, geometric figures in stone and terra cotta from 1919 and 1920. But history would soon enough put a severe strain on the kind of aesthetic idealism that motivated these and many other artists of the era.
486 2012-06-15 The military rulers did not issue a statement on the court’s decision. But the Web site of the state newspaper Al Ahram reported that the generals said the presidential runoff would still take place on schedule.

“From a democratic perspective, this is the worst possible outcome imaginable,” said Shadi Hamid, research director of the Brookings Doha Center in Qatar. “This is an all-out power grab by the military.”

The timing of the ruling seems like a transparent attempt to undermine the Islamists just two days before Mohamed Morsi of the Muslim Brotherhood is set to compete in the runoff against Ahmed Shafik, a former air force general and Mr. Mubarak’s last prime minister.

If the ruling is carried out, whoever wins the presidential race would take power without the check of a sitting Parliament and could exercise significant influence over the elections to form a new one. The new president will also take office without a permanent constitution to define his powers or duties. A 100-member constitutional assembly appointed by Parliament and including dozens of lawmakers may also be dissolved. And in any event, the ruling generals are expected to issue their own interim charter during the drafting.

Electing a president without either a constitution or a parliament is like “electing an ‘emperor’ with more power than the deposed dictator. A travesty,” Mohamed ElBaradei, the Nobel Prize-winning diplomat and former presidential candidate, said in a comment online.

In a statement, the Brotherhood’s political arm said the court’s decisions “confirms that the former regime hasn’t surrendered yet and won’t give up easily.”

Mr. Morsi, the Brotherhood’s candidate, charged that the rulings proved some were “plotting against the people,” determined to “tamper with the will of the people.”

But Brotherhood officials said Thursday that they expected Parliament to meet as scheduled next week. They argued that under the Egyptian system, the high constitutional court does not have the authority to order the dissolution of Parliament and that in any event there were less sweeping remedies available to resolve the court’s complaints.

“The Parliament hasn’t been and won’t be dissolved,” Mr. Morsi said in a television interview. He also vowed to compete as planned against Mr. Shafik.

“There is a chance ahead of us, through free will, to completely prevent the return of anyone from the old criminal regime,” Mr. Morsi said in the interview. “I love the armed forces,” he said, urging the generals “not to allow the hyenas of darkness to come back through the presidential elections.”

Brotherhood officials said that they had considered pulling Mr. Morsi out of the race in protest. But a top election official clarified in a television interview that Mr. Morsi had little choice but to compete: his name is already printed on the ballots, and the official said that if Mr. Morsi pulled out, the authorities would have to hold an up-or-down referendum on Mr. Shafik.

Some lawmakers said they welcomed the dissolution of Parliament even though it cost them their seats. They were afraid of the power of the Islamists, said Emad Gad, a leader of the secular Social Democratic Party’s parliamentary bloc. He has endorsed Mr. Shafik.

“Definitely it is good,” Mr. Gad said, arguing that the ruling was a blow to the Islamists’ power and prestige, bolstering Mr. Shafik’s chances to win the presidential election. He was less afraid that Mr. Shafik might become a Mubarak-like strongman than he was of the Islamists monopolizing power through their victories at the polls. “We can demonstrate against Shafik, but we cannot demonstrate against the Islamists,” Mr. Gad said.

In the weeks before the first round of presidential voting, the Brotherhood-led Parliament passed a law blocking Mr. Shafik and other top officials of the Mubarak government from competing for the presidency. But many liberal jurists said that the narrow targeting of the law appeared questionable. An electoral commission of Mubarak-appointed judges set it aside. And on Thursday, the high court ruled it unconstitutional.

Mr. Shafik made no comments on the dissolution of Parliament. But in a televised campaign speech at a Cairo hotel — it had the feel of a victory rally, with adoring supporters chanting “We love you, Mr. President” — Mr. Shafik called the decision to validate his campaign “historic.”

“The era of settling grudges has ended,” he declared, suggesting obliquely that by passing the law the Brotherhood had sought “the use of the state institutions to serve a certain group.”

“I promise to confront chaos and restore stability,” Mr. Shafik said, repeating his core message. “Egypt needs leadership, and it needs manhood in leadership.”

Some elements of the ruling striking down Parliament should not have come as a surprise.

Nathan J. Brown, a professor of political science at George Washington University, noted that the constitutional court had sought the dissolution of Parliament at least twice before, in 1987 and 1990, for similar reasons. As it did Thursday, it ruled in each case that election officials had impermissibly allowed political parties to complete for seats designated for independents.

But in those cases, the court took years to investigate each case before ordering the dissolution of the Parliaments long after they were elected (and the Parliaments also rejected the court’s authority). Mr. Brown wrote on Thursday that it was the court’s timing and speed that were the “big surprise.”

“What was beginning to look like a coup in slow motion is no longer moving in slow motion,” he wrote.

Over the longer term, the ruling could also make it harder for Islamists, who have the strongest parties, to re-establish their commanding majority in Parliament when new elections are held.

The military-issued transitional charter had reserved a third of the seats in the 508-member body for competition by individual candidates instead of party lists, and the Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party won about 100 of its 235-seat plurality — nearly half the chamber — by running candidates for individual seats. The ruling could block the party from doing the same thing in the next legislature, and it would have a similar effect on the ultraconservative Salafi parties.

On Thursday, however, the younger and more liberal activists who helped kick off the revolt against Mr. Mubarak were as stunned by the ruling as the more established Islamists.

Some supporters of the revolution said they worried that the public was almost too fatigued to respond. “Egypt just witnessed the smoothest military coup,” Hossam Bahgat, director of the Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights, wrote in a Twitter post. “We’d be outraged if we weren’t so exhausted.”

Mamdouh Sharabtly, 48, a restaurant worker, wondered if anyone could understand the rulings. “Today’s verdict signaled that Shafik will win anyway,” he said. “If their aim is to tire us of so-called democracy, it’s working. The military is running the show.”
487 2012-06-15 WASHINGTON (AP) — The job market is flagging, and consumer prices are barely rising. The picture presented by data released Thursday is leading some economists to predict that the Federal Reserve will announce some new step next week to revive the economy.

Applications for unemployment benefits rose last week, pointing to a fourth straight month of sluggish hiring in June. And consumer prices fell 0.3 percent in May largely because of a drop in gasoline prices.

Weak job growth raises pressure on the Fed because part of its mission is to increase employment. And mild inflation gives policy makers more leeway to act. The Fed’s policy-making committee is to meet next Tuesday and Wednesday.

Fed officials are “likely to go into that meeting feeling a little chastened and looking for a way to support the economy,” said Jeremy Lawson, an economist at BNP Paribas.

At its April meeting the Fed forecast that the economy would grow by about 2.7 percent this year.

But many economists are now predicting slower growth after seeing the economy slump this spring. Employers added an average of 96,000 jobs a month in the last three months. Consumers barely increased their spending at retail businesses in May. And European leaders are struggling to contain their financial crisis.

“You look at all this and say, ‘Where’s the growth going to come from?’ ” Mr. Lawson said.
488 2012-06-15 As head of the elite consulting firm McKinsey & Company, Rajat K. Gupta associated with corporate chieftains and heads of state around the world.     Today, his fate rests in the hands of a retired librarian, a freelance beauty consultant and 10 o...
489 2012-06-16 The first six holes at the Olympic Club have lived up to their billing as a daunting test for the world's best players....
490 2012-06-16 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
491 2012-06-16 The jury for the insider trading trial of Rajat Gupta took only two days to reach its verdict....
492 2012-06-16 “Well, that was not easy,” Woods said. “That golf course was some kind of quick. It got dried out. The wind was swirling a little bit out there. It was tough. It was really, really tough. Just had to stay as patient as possible, and I did a really good job at that today.”

He started the day three strokes behind Thompson after an opening 69 that many people believed was the worst score he could have recorded given how well he was striking the ball. Different day, different story; Woods’s Friday round easily could have been several strokes higher if not for a couple of improbable recovery shots and a few clutch putts.

At one point, the leader board was golf’s version of Two-and-a-Half Men, with Furyk and Woods sharing the spotlight with the 17-year-old Beau Hossler, an Angus T. Jones lookalike who took the outright lead, at two under, with a birdie on his 11th hole.

Hossler, a Southern California kid who started on No. 9, played his next five holes — Nos. 2 through 6 — in five over to slide down the leader board. He hung tough, carding a 73 for a two-day total of plus-3 that invoked the ghost of Harvie Ward, a California-bred amateur who tied for seventh at the first U.S. Open held here, in 1955.

Asked what he would have thought if someone had told him a 17-year-old would be contending in the Open, Hossler replied, “I would probably tell them they’re nuts.”

Hossler, a rising senior at Santa Margarita High who has verbally committed to Texas, qualified for last year’s Open and missed the cut with rounds of 76 and 77 at Congressional Country Club. That experience was a valuable steppingstone, he said, adding that his recent performances augured well for this week.

“I got second at the state championship for high school, shot three-under 68 there,” he said. “Came in fourth at the Thunderbird. Before that, I had really been playing well.”

Rory McIlroy, who obliterated the field at Congressional, winning by eight strokes, was among the weekend casualties. He carded a second-round 73 for a two-day total of plus 10 to miss the cut by two strokes. Luke Donald, the No. 1 player in the world, also failed to advance, chasing his opening 79 with a 72 to finish 11 over. Phil Mickelson, who has never won the Open but finished second five times, appeared in jeopardy of missing the cut after opening with a 76. He rebounded with a 71 to secure, by one stroke, a spot in the weekend.

Bubba Watson, the reigning Masters champion, carded a 71 on Friday and was within 10 strokes of the lead, at plus-9. So were Lucas Glover, the 2009 U.S. Open titlist, and Louis Oosthuizen, the 2010 British Open champion. In years past, they would have been assured berths in the weekend. But the U.S.G.A. championship committee chose to eliminate the 10-stroke rule this year. As a result, all three players found themselves on the wrong side of the cut line, which was set to accommodate the top 60 players plus ties.

Mike Davis, the executive director of the U.S.G.A., said there were concerns about weekend fields of more than 100 players necessitating groups of three for the final two rounds or sending groups of two off both tees, neither of which is ideal for television coverage.

“And we didn’t want to do that for a U.S. Open,” Davis said.

For years, he added, the rule remained in effect in what amounted to a nod to Ernie Els, who in 1993 advanced to the weekend on the 10-shot rule and finished tied for seventh to secure a spot in the 1994 event, which he went on to win.

What will it take to emerge victorious this weekend? “You got to play Jim Furyk golf,” said McDowell, who was paired with Furyk for the first two rounds. “I watched yesterday, and I watched it again today. Doesn’t take chances he doesn’t have to take on. He gets it back in the fairway. He putts well. Holes out well. Takes his chances when it comes. And that’s my type of golf as well.”

Several players who teed off in the morning said it appeared the course had been watered overnight so red numbers might sprout like mushrooms. By midafternoon, a light breeze and ample sunshine had dried out the fairways and greens, limiting the number of rounds in the 60s to seven. McDowell was asked what he expected the winning score to be Sunday.

“Levelish,” he said. “I don’t see it getting much away from that.” He added, “It’s up to the U.S.G.A., really. They can have whatever they want with it.”

If he could plead his case to Davis, what would he say?
493 2012-06-16 SAN FRANCISCO — For a couple of years now, as each major golf championship concludes, Luke Donald can predict the immediate future. He knows that within 10 minutes he will face one specific question — and it will not be how it feels to be the world’s No. 1-ranked ranked golfer.

It will be a query about why or how the top-ranked player has not won a major. And with Donald finishing Friday’s second round of the United States Open at 11 over par, a score that eliminated him from this weekend’s final rounds, that question — his major championship companion — came at him early and often.

“I want to win one more than any of you guys know,” he said before packing up his locker at the Olympic Club. “That’s the one part of my golfing résumé, in the last few years especially, that I need to continually address and continually improve.”

Donald, who shot a 72 Friday after a first-round 79, shifted his weight from foot to foot as he met with reporters — his hands on his hips as he searched for something illuminating to say. But Donald, who has now played in nine United States Opens and has not finished higher than 45th since 2006, is routinely honest and forthright. He offered only the obvious.

“I’ll continue,” he said with a deep sigh, “to try to do better.”

Not far from Donald, speaking as he packed his locker and prepared to leave the Olympic Club, was the defending champion and boy wonder of the event a year ago, Rory McIlroy.

McIlroy, who has traded the No. 1 spot back and forth with Donald this year, shot a 77 on Thursday. On Friday, he appeared on his way to a minor comeback, one good enough to perhaps make the cut, when he had a 12-foot eagle putt on his second-to-last hole.
494 2012-06-16 Johnson lasted just two and a third innings, surrendering a season-high seven earned runs despite allowing no extra-base hits. But he lacked the command he showed in compiling a 12-1 record.

“I thought I hit a few spots every once in a while down there, but even when I did, I would throw the ball a couple inches more outside,” Johnson said. “I had a good five days to rest, so as much as people say it was overworking, it was just me being off today, and a good U.C.L.A. team took advantage.”

Stony Brook had opportunities in the early innings to get back into the game before Bruins starter Adam Plutko settled in. The Seawolves loaded the bases with one out in the second, but Plutko escaped by striking out Kevin Courtney and inducing a foul pop from Sal Intagliata.

In the fifth, with runners on second and third and no outs, Stony Brook’s second-team all-American Travis Jankowski rolled over a changeup and chopped it to first for a force. Courtney tried to score on the play and was ruled out on Trevor Brown’s throw to the plate, though replays appeared to show that Courtney got his foot in before the tag. Only two Seawolves reached base the rest of the game.

“This is a strong offensive team, so I had total confidence that we’d be able to come back, especially if we didn’t score early,” said Coach Matt Senk of Stony Brook. “Both innings, we had second and third and less than two outs, and it was there for us.”

Plutko went seven innings, striking out seven and scattering five hits. The only run he surrendered came on Pat Cantwell’s homer to the left-field corner in the third.

“It was a typical Bruin win,” Savage said. “Nothing fancy — no big home runs or anything. It was just more kind of plate discipline, using the middle of the field.”

Stony Brook will face elimination in its next game, on Sunday.
495 2012-06-16 “The thing that I hate the most about this is to see our community divided,” Gerald LaFont, a city councilman, told the audience, indignantly. “While a lot of people love Blue, you’ve got to remember this: Blue is a dog.”

Blue has a bank account to keep donations he has received by mail and in person at the Butte General Store and Marine, where he hangs out ($1,800 was its balance). He has a Facebook page with twice as many followers (2,902 as of Friday) as there are residents in Elephant Butte (population 1,431, excluding the tourists who flock here every summer to boat and fish on the reservoir).

He also has a lawyer from Albuquerque, Hilary A. Noskin.

“I believe in the law,” said Ms. Noskin, who has a vacation home here and is working pro bono. “But sometimes people get carried away.”

The story began two years ago, when a woman filed a complaint against Blue, saying he had threatened her while she walked her dogs. Janice Connor and her partner Bob Owen, who own the general store, recalled being told that if they neutered Blue, all troubles would go away.

And for about 18 months, they did. Then, on Jan. 4, the City Council imposed strict requirements for vicious dogs, including $100,000 in liability insurance from their owners, as response to a woman’s mauling by four pit bulls in neighboring Truth or Consequences.

In February, a code-enforcement officer who was out checking on compliance fined Mr. Owen for failing to keep Blue on a leash.

Mr. Owen contested the fine in court and the judge gave him a reprieve: seven months to resolve the situation. The Council disagreed with the ruling, saying in a motion that the court had no authority to delay punishment prescribed by the “legislative act of a municipality” unless it brought Mr. Owen to trial.

Blue’s supporters — there are a lot of them here — geared up for a fight. The man who runs Casa Taco, a restaurant where Blue used to spend his days until it temporarily closed four years ago after the death of its former owner, created the Facebook page. Ms. Connor started an online petition at Change.org, gathering more than 700 signatures in 15 days.

Postcards began pouring into the general store. “I’m rooting for you,” read one from Webster, Fla.; “Go Blue!!!,” read another from Athens, Tex.

Mr. Owen, meanwhile, applied for a variance to the city’s leash law, allowing Blue to keep on living as he always had, leash-free, which is what prompted Wednesday’s meeting.

It drew a record crowd to the municipal building. The Council chambers filled to capacity, and so did the adjoining courtroom.

About a dozen people listened in on the action from speakers in the parking lot.

Mayor Eunice Kent spoke first, saying that the discussion was not, as rumor would have it, about kicking Blue out or putting him to sleep.

“I took an oath of office to uphold the law,” Mrs. Kent said. “We want to hear your opinions, and we want to hear solutions, but they have to be within the law.”

One woman suggested turning Blue into the city’s mascot, which presumably would afford him rights and protections not extended to the average dog. Another said the city should install crosswalks on State Highway 195 to facilitate Blue’s crossing (if he used it, that is).

Cindy Torres, 59, who has had a realty office here for 20 years, suggested, “Why not have a mayoral proclamation making Blue a coyote?” (“I’m serious,” she said gravely afterward.)

Then, Mr. Owen took to the microphone. “There are more important issues this community needs to deal with,” he said, “but it’s really good to see it come alive over this.”

Mrs. Kent stopped the testimony after an hour. The city will grant Ms. Connor and Mr. Owen, Blue’s guardians, an exception to its ordinance, she said, so they can install an electronic fence around the general store’s property, a large corner lot that also has a gas station and a boat repair shop. The dog would be shocked if he tried to cross the fence.

Mrs. Kent and Ms. Connor hugged after the meeting.

The next day, Blue, for the first time anyone can remember, wore a leash for his morning walk along the dog path behind the local R.V. park.
496 2012-06-16 Top-seeded Rafael Nadal was ousted from the Gerry Weber Open in Halle, Germany, on Friday, falling in the quarterfinals to Philipp Kohlschreiber, 6-3, 6-4. Roger Federer, a five-time winner of this grass-court Wimbledon tuneup, was taken to three sets but defeated Milos Raonic, 6-7 (4), 6-4, 7-6 (3).

¶ Sam Querrey reached his first semifinal in nearly two years, defeating Ivan Dodig, 7-5, 3-6, 6-3, at Queen’s Club in London. . (AP)
497 2012-06-16 Even at a time when extreme attacks on women’s reproductive rights and freedom are nothing unusual, a sweeping measure on a fast track in Michigan’s Republican-led State Legislature stands out.

The legislation, which cleared the State House of Representatives on Wednesday, contains several constitutionally questionable restrictions that add up to an egregious assault on safe abortion care and on the clinics that provide it. One portion of the extreme legislation seeks to shrink access to abortion care by imposing costly and unnecessary space and other requirements on all clinics that provide six or more abortions a month. Under the bill’s terms, clinics would need to be licensed as surgical centers even if they offer only medicine-based abortions that entail handing out pills and do not perform surgery.

Other provisions would forbid health care providers from following the most up-to-date medical protocol for the use of abortion-inducing drugs, which is preferred because it minimizes both side effects and costs. The measure would also bar the use of videoconferences with doctors supervising medicine-based abortions.

Bad as it is, the measure could have been even worse. At the last minute, and for reasons that are still unclear, backers of the House measure omitted a provision that would have criminalized all abortions occurring 20 weeks after fertilization, flouting the standard for fetal viability set in Roe v. Wade, without any reasonable exception for cases of rape, incest or grievous physical impairment.

This may not be the end of the matter, though. The 20-week ban could emerge again as an issue when the State Senate takes up the House-approved bill, which could happen as early as mid-July.

If Michigan’s Republican governor, Rick Snyder, were to sign the measure, he would be taking part in a shameful assault on reproductive health care. It would then fall to the courts to stand up for Michigan’s women and their legal rights.
498 2012-06-16 Representative Darrell Issa said Friday that he was willing to postpone a vote on holding Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. in contempt of Congress if the Justice Department turns over more records as promised in the investigation of a flawed gun-smuggling inquiry. But Mr. Issa, Republican of California, said he still had concerns that the documents may not be enough to end the House inquiry. Mr. Holder has said the department is prepared to turn over records detailing how officials earned that federal agents in Arizona had used a controversial investigative tactic that resulted in hundreds of illicitly bought hased guns winding up in Mexico, often at crime scenes.
499 2012-06-16 A Tibetan herder in China’s northwest Qinghai Province died Friday after setting himself on fire to protest government policies in the region, according to exile groups and Radio Free Asia. The herder, Tamdin Thar, thought to be in his early 60s, set himself on fire in Markethang, in the Huangnan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, said the group Free Tibet. Since 2009, at least 39 Tibetans have set themselves on fire. Of those, 30 have died, according to the International Campaign for Tibet, an advocacy group in Washington. “If the human rights situation doesn’t improve, such tragic incidents will keep happening,” said Tsering Woeser, a Tibetan writer in Beijing. “Many Tibetans think the pain of self-immolation is nothing compared to the pain of living without religious freedom.”
500 2012-06-16 William S. Knowles, who was 84 and in retirement when he shared the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2001 for improving ways to manufacture drugs, including L-dopa for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease, died on Wednesday at his home in Chesterfield, Mo., a suburb of St. Louis. He was 95.

His death was confirmed by his daughter Elizabeth Knowles.

Dr. Knowles, who had worked for the Monsanto Company from 1942 to 1986, had been retired for 15 years when he was woken up by an early-morning phone call from Stockholm in October 2001, telling him that he had won the Nobel Prize.

“I’ve been retired and out of the running for some time,” he told his local newspaper in Chesterfield, The Webster-Kirkwood Times.

The prize, for work in a field known as chiral chemistry, was also awarded to Ryoji Noyori of Nagoya University in Japan and K. Barry Sharpless of the Scripps Research Institute in San Diego.

Just as the left hand is a mirror image of the right, many molecules come in two forms, identical in chemical composition but mirror images of each other. The two forms can have very different properties and sharply different effects on the body. For example, one version of the molecule limonene smells of oranges; its mirror image has a lemony, turpentinelike odor.
501 2012-06-16 The economic benefits of these developments are profound, he contends, because more dollars are staying at home, boosting American jobs.

As development of shale gas and oil continues to flourish, expect job growth in areas that Mr. Yergin doesn’t mention. Demand will surge for hydrologists skilled at cleaning up groundwater contaminated by fracking fluids. The bottled water delivery business will prosper for that same reason. Seismologists will be in demand. The United States Geological Survey recently affirmed that earthquake activity and deep injection of wastewater from fracking operations are linked.

In his essay, Mr. Yergin’s first and only reference to the environment appears in the final sentence.

Let’s hope environmental protection isn’t an afterthought in the rush toward America’s new energy reality.

The writer is a professor in the School of Public and Environmental Affairs at Indiana University.

Daniel Yergin leaves out the main issue by not mentioning the word climate even once. If we burn all that oil and gas, the planet will warm beyond tipping points with catastrophic consequences.

Daniel Yergin’s superb essay did not mention one startling and potentially transformative development recently announced by the Obama administration. The Green River Formation, which lies beneath a largely vacant area of mostly federal land where Colorado, Utah and Wyoming come together, contains about three trillion barrels of oil. Depending on the available technology and current regulations, about half of the oil there may be recoverable, an amount about equal to the entire world’s proven oil reserves.

One major impediment is its location beneath federal land. A reasonable policy balance should be achieved to bring these vast oil reserves to market while properly stewarding our environmental resources.

Given that the American Petroleum Institute’s hydraulic fracturing standards and best practices were influential in the development of the International Energy Agency’s “golden rules” for natural gas development, your suggestion that the report be required reading for America’s natural gas industry seems superfluous (“Natural Gas, by the Book,” editorial, June 10).

The agency’s report reinforces A.P.I.’s effectiveness as a global leader in natural gas industry standards and its commitment to the safe and responsible development of energy from shale.

Our industry supports responsible regulation and, working with governments at all levels in New York and elsewhere, has sought to ensure that all concerns about the development of shale oil and natural gas are addressed properly. For the record, all the concerns you list are addressed in New York regulations or those proposed by the Department of Environmental Conservation.

Your editorial in favor of properly regulated hydrofracking was right on the mark. Hydrofracking can have significant economic and environmental benefits for our country and the world. The one negative I see in hydrofracking is that it could slow down the development of renewable energy.

Therefore I suggest a small tax be placed on hydrofracking production that is used to support the development of renewable energy. Scalable, economical renewable energy may be decades away, and we need to support its development.
502 2012-06-16 Credit: Jeff Swensen for The New York Times
503 2012-06-16 “Russia uses these statements as a form of deterrence in Syria,” he said. “They show other countries that they are more likely to suffer losses.”

Throughout the Syrian crisis, Russia has insisted that all its arms sales to the isolated government of President Bashar al-Assad have been defensive in nature, and that the weapons were not being used in the Syrian leader’s violent campaign to suppress the opposition.

Mr. Isaykin underlined the point, but in a way that could also be interpreted as a warning to the West against undertaking military action of the sort that ousted Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi from power in Libya. Mr. Putin viewed that action as a breach of sovereignty that he does not want repeated.

Yet, as news reports of government massacres emerge almost daily from Syria, the prospect of the United States or NATO acting unilaterally has become a more frequently discussed option, particularly given Russia’s adamant refusal to authorize more aggressive United Nations action.

Mr. Isaykin, a powerful figure in Russia’s military industry, openly discussed the weapons being shipped to Syria: the Pantsyr-S1, a radar-guided missile and artillery system capable of hitting warplanes at altitudes well above those typically flown during bombing sorties, and up to 12 miles away; Buk-M2 antiaircraft missiles, capable of striking airplanes at even higher altitudes, up to 82,000 feet, and at longer ranges; and land-based Bastion antiship missiles that can fire at targets 180 miles from the coast.

Military analysts immediately questioned the effectiveness of the air defenses Russia has made available to nations in the Middle East, including Syria, none of which have offered even token resistance to Western forces.

Ruslan Aliyev, an authority on military affairs at the Center for the Analysis of Strategies and Technologies in Moscow, said that statements by Mr. Isaykin and others were issued principally for political effect. Moscow has declined to supply Syria with its most lethal air defense, the S-300 long-range missile system.

“As far as I understand, Syria is not able to defend itself from NATO, just like it failed to defend its nuclear facility from Israel’s September 2007 airstrike,” Mr. Aliyev wrote in an e-mailed response to questions. “Russian armaments are unlikely to be significantly helpful, I’m afraid.”

Since Mrs. Clinton’s statement, both sides have sought to play down the helicopters’ significance, saying they were of marginal use militarily. A State Department spokeswoman, Victoria Nuland, said Thursday that the secretary of state was referring to three helicopters that were returned recently to Syria after being refurbished in Russia.

In the interview, Mr. Isaykin said that the contract to overhaul the helicopters was signed in 2008, was never secret and had been reported to international organizations. “It was an absolutely routine contract,” he said.

Syria has spent about $500 million annually in recent years on Russian weaponry, Mr. Isaykin said in the interview, an order book that amounts to about 5 percent of Rosoboronexport’s business.

For nearly a decade, Mr. Isaykin said, Rosoboronexport has had no Syrian orders for rifles, ammunition, ground-to-ground rockets, helicopters and their onboard weapons or armored vehicles — the basic tools of a conflict that is escalating into civil war.

The Middle East, he said, is “flooded” with Soviet-style small arms, often made in knockoff versions by the Chinese or Eastern Europeans, elbowing Russia out of this market.

The Russian arms trade business with Syria has depended in recent years on large and complex antiaircraft systems. They violate no United Nations sanctions, he said, and cannot be used against civilians in a domestic conflict.

“We just send them to Syria,” he said. “Ask the Syrians where they put them.”
504 2012-06-16 With the iPad, Apple coupled hardware and software together in an elegant package, producing longer battery life, a more responsive touch screen and other features competitors have not been able to match.

“If it’s true that Microsoft is going to produce its own tablet, it’s a major turning point for the company and shows just how breathtakingly the landscape has changed in a just a few years,” said Brad Silverberg, a venture capitalist in Seattle and former Microsoft executive, who said he had no knowledge of the company’s plans. “The stakes are enormous.”

In the smartphone business, Google initially followed Microsoft’s playbook by making its Android operating system available to any hardware maker who wanted it, a move that helped turn Android into the top operating system for smartphones. The search company’s hardware partners were far less successful, though, in selling Android tablets to the public, which were often criticized for being inferior to the iPad.

Last year though, Google announced plans to pay $12.5 billion to acquire Motorola Mobility, a maker of Android smartphones and tablets. That deal, which was completed last month, was seen as a big shift in strategy for Google that will help it create better Android smartphones and tablets.

Microsoft and Google are not entirely embracing Apple’s approach. Even as they design their own devices, they both will continue to make their software available to hardware companies that want to base their products on them. Microsoft has already publicly demonstrated devices from hardware makers like Samsung running Windows 8, the next version of its operating system.

Microsoft has invited the media to an event in Los Angeles Monday afternoon, where it is expected to show its tablet device. The entertainment industry Web site The Wrap earlier reported that Microsoft planned to announce a tablet at the event.

For Microsoft, making a tablet is a risky venture. Even with the emerging competition from the iPad, Windows remains one of the greatest franchises the technology industry has known, accounting for $4.6 billion in sales during the most recently reported quarter. Those sales are rooted in Microsoft’s alliance with its hardware partners. The plans could erode the commitment those partners have to Windows since Microsoft will effectively be competing with them for sales.

Also, Microsoft has a mixed track record in making hardware. It makes the popular Xbox 360, but that device sustained years of losses and manufacturing problems before it became a success. Microsoft failed with the Zune, a music player that was designed to compete with the iPod.

But there is also great risk for Microsoft in betting entirely on its old way of working with PC companies. The iPad has already begun to steal sales from low-end Windows laptops, though most people still aren’t using tablets for hard-core tasks like writing long documents and building big spreadsheets.

Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, has repeatedly predicted that tablet computers will eventually outsell traditional computers in part because of their simplicity.

In its most recent quarter, Apple’s revenue from the iPad was $6.59 billion, more than Microsoft’s sales of Windows.

Microsoft’s move is a vindication of sorts for Steve Jobs, Apple’s late chief executive and long the technology industry’s most vocal advocate for making both hardware and software. Mr. Jobs often said that the only way to create superior technology products was to “make the whole widget.”

Many technology executives these days have come around to thinking like that, saying that conceiving hardware and software together is especially important with consumer devices like the iPad because of how things like poor battery life and unresponsive touch screens can ruin consumers’ enjoyment of the devices.

“In consumer technology, tight integration of hardware and software produces a demonstrably better platform,” said Roger McNamee, a veteran technology investor with Elevation Partners, a Silicon Valley private equity firm. “But that is only the first step in competing with Apple. Now Microsoft has to deliver functionality superior to iPad in a package consumers want to buy.”

A longtime Microsoft executive, Steven Sinofsky, is leading the company’s tablet effort. Mr. Sinofsky took over the company’s Windows division several years ago, helping to lead a turnaround in the business after the release of Windows Vista, which was widely criticized for early technical flaws.

Mr. Sinofsky’s first step in responding to the iPad was to oversee the most drastic change in the design of the operating system in years so that it could take better advantage of touch screens. That new version of the software, Windows 8, is expected to be released this October on an array of devices, including more traditional-looking computers.

The Microsoft tablet is expected to use a variation of Windows 8, known as Windows RT, that is designed specifically for tablet devices based on a class of microprocessors called ARM chips. That is the same class of chips inside the iPad and other mobile devices.
505 2012-06-16 Among Germany’s leaders, “There was a belief that these countries have to go through the pain and then it gets better,” he added. “They’ve committed a sin and now, to stop them from doing it again, they must suffer in purgatory.”

The German attitude isn’t that different from that of many Americans, who are still angry that Wall Street bankers were bailed out with tax dollars rather than punished for their profligacy.

Besides the moral hazard issue, German leaders have other political issues to contend with. “Applying a Keynesian perspective to the German approach is entirely misguided,” Mr. Kirkegaard said. “The Germans aren’t looking at this from a short-term economic perspective. They view this, entirely correctly in my view, as a political crisis that can only be resolved with greater fiscal and political union to complement the monetary union. No country is going to voluntarily give up its sovereignty. Yet if German taxpayers are going to be liable for Italian debt, then they have to have some democratic say in how Italy runs its affairs and spends German money. Without that, it’s illegitimate. The markets want this to be resolved yesterday, but this takes time and political preparation.”

Mr. Kirkegaard isn’t alone in his view that a simple Keynesian approach to Europe would be misguided. “The über-Keynesians just want to see bigger deficits and more spending,” said Sebastian Mallaby, a senior fellow for international economics at the Council on Foreign Relations. “We don’t know what Keynes would have done because Keynes didn’t live in world of huge budget deficits and massive sovereign debt. Spain was running a budget deficit in 2011 of 8.5 percent of gross domestic product. That’s not sustainable. You need a path back to a sustainable budget, and that does require some belt-tightening. The Germans are right about that.” He noted that the approach demanded by Germany isn’t that different from what the International Monetary Fund has consistently extracted in numerous government rescue operations over the years.

But “where the Germans have gone wrong,” Mr. Mallaby contended, “is the speed of the fiscal consolidation that they’ve mandated. You don’t want to cut deficits so fast that the economy craters and you get riots in the streets. So you need to consolidate the budget but not so much that you kill the patient.” He noted that during 2011, “budget deficits were cut quite a lot in Europe, but the ratio of government debt to G.D.P. increased because economies were shrinking.” The Germans “need to be more generous.”

Mr. Bofinger takes a harsher view. “Germany is responsible for the whole disaster,” he said. “It overemphasized fiscal consolidation. It’s a one-dimensional view. German leaders genuinely believed that financial markets would reward fiscal rectitude with lower interest rates. That was naïve. It didn’t happen. The problem is, it isn’t easy politically to make a 180-degree turn. The German public needs to be re-educated. It will take a lot of courage and leadership from Merkel.”

In the meantime, Europe seems destined to lurch from crisis to crisis — but, in Mr. Kirkegaard’s rosier view, will muddle through to achieve Germany’s long-cherished dream for Europe, which is a closer fiscal and political union. “One should not underestimate that the Germans will ultimately pay whatever it takes to make this work,” he said. “It’s well understood among the German political elite and economic elite that no country has gained more from the euro than Germany. It has a massive export-based economy with a relatively weak currency, which is a tremendous benefit. Germany will write a check, but will only sign it on its terms. The way the German leadership views the crisis is simple: it’s a way for them to get a better deal. That’s why you see the same pattern. Angela says, ‘No, no, no.’ The crisis gets worse, Germany gains more concessions. Then she says, ‘Yes.’ ”

Mr. Kirkegaard said he realized this might be a contrarian view but, “I think this is the only way forward.”

So, apparently, does Ms. Merkel. In a speech to Germany’s Parliament on Thursday, she said “no” again. She acknowledged that “all eyes are on Germany” but staunchly rejected the notion of any “miracle cures,” like issuing euro bonds backed by Germany or guaranteeing bank deposits throughout Europe. She instead urged Europe to undertake the “herculean task” of political union. “It is our task today to make up for what was not done” when the euro was created, Ms. Merkel said, “and to end the vicious circle of ever new debt, of not sticking to rules.”

The Germans have a point. Germany still has a triple-A credit rating and is in a position to rescue its more profligate neighbors for the very reason that the Germans have refused to write a blank check. But the danger is that Germany says “no” one time too many, pushing Europe and the world economy over the brink. With each failed effort to contain the crisis, that moment seems closer.
506 2012-06-16 BEIJING — A Tibetan herder in China’s northwest Qinghai Province died on Friday after setting himself on fire to protest government policies in the region, according to exile groups and Radio Free Asia.

The herder, Tamdin Thar, who was thought to be in his early 60s, self-immolated in front of a police compound in Markethang, a county seat in the Huangnan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, according to the group Free Tibet. Radio Free Asia said security forces immediately extinguished the flames but the man died a short time later.

A crowd of several hundred people, including Buddhist monks and local residents, quickly gathered at center of town and demanded that the police hand over his body, according to Radio Free Asia and Free Tibet.

The authorities, they said, eventually complied, returning Tamdin Thar’s body to his family, who then brought it to a nearby monastery in preparation for his funeral.

Since 2009, at least 38 Tibetans have set fire to themselves in a wave of protest that has defied an increasingly heavy police presence and Beijing’s efforts to paint the self-immolators as terrorists. Of those, 29 have died, according to the International Campaign for Tibet, an advocacy group in Washington.

Protesters who have set themselves ablaze often shout slogans demanding the return of the Dalai Lama, the exiled spiritual leader; several have left notes or videotaped testimonials condemning government policies they say curtail Buddhist practices and favor the Mandarin language over Tibetan.

Once largely confined to Tibetan parts of Sichuan, Gansu and Qinghai Provinces, the self-immolations last month spread to Lhasa, the Tibetan capital, where two men set themselves on fire in front of Jokhang Temple, the holiest in Tibetan Buddhism.
507 2012-06-16 Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky on Friday accused President Obama, his campaign and his administration of engaging in Nixonian dirty tricks, including keeping an enemies list, inciting ''mob'' attacks on its critics and leaking confidential ta...
508 2012-06-16 Rajat K. Gupta, the retired head of the consulting firm McKinsey & Company and a former Goldman Sachs board member, was found guilty on Friday of conspiracy and securities fraud for leaking boardroom secrets to a billionaire hedge fund manager.   ...
509 2012-06-16 1:57 p.m. | Updated  Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing agreed on Friday to buy the London Metal Exchange for £1.38 billion, or $2.14 billion, in another sign of Asia's importance to the world's commodities industry.     The Asian bourse, one of th...
510 2012-06-16 With the conviction of Rajat K. Gupta, the United States attorney in Manhattan, Preet Bharara, has now secured the biggest scalp yet in the government's broad campaign against insider trading on Wall Street.     A victory in a case that relied alm...
511 2012-06-17 Bao Tong once worked at the highest levels of the Chinese Communist Party --- until his fall from favor, his conviction in a show trial and a seven-year prison term. And now, with an important Communist Party congress coming up, the state security...
512 2012-06-17 The graduation ceremony for the High School for Innovation in Advertising and Media, in Canarsie, Brooklyn, is to take place on June 26 at the Brooklyn Museum....
513 2012-06-17 Credit: J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times
514 2012-06-17 Speaking at a church in Brooklyn, Mayor Bloomberg reiterated his message that the city's stop-and-frisk policy needed to be "mended, not ended."...
515 2012-06-17 The upscale Arizona spa is holding weight-loss programs for teenagers and their parents....
516 2012-06-17 Texas, back when....
517 2012-06-17 Irish eyes, still not smiling....
518 2012-06-17 Adriane Marie Casalotti and Bernard Abraham Becker were married Saturday. Mary Ellen Stanton, an officiant of the Northern Virginia Ethical Society, performed the ceremony at the Bluemont Vineyard in Bluemont, Va.

The couple met at the College of William and Mary, from which they both graduated.

Ms. Casalotti, 29, is keeping her name. She is a legislative assistant to Representative Lois Capps, a California Democrat, and specializes in health issues. The bride received master’s degrees in both public health and social work from the University of North Carolina.

She is a daughter of Patricia A. Weber of Danville, Pa., and Ronald P. Casalotti of Wayne, N.J., and a stepdaughter of Debra M. Casalotti and of Curtis W. Stone.

Mr. Becker, 32, is a staff reporter covering tax and financial issues in Washington for The Hill newspaper. He received a master’s degree in journalism from the University of Maryland.

He is a son of M. Martha Woody and Robert F. Becker of Martinsville, Va.
519 2012-06-17 Alissa Grebow Stock, a daughter of Janet Grebow Stock and Dr. John L. Stock of Southborough, Mass., was married Saturday evening to Samuel Lifton Hendel, a son of Ruth Hendel and Stephen M. Hendel of Larchmont, N.Y. Rabbi Jeffrey S. Wildstein officiated at the Ritz-Carlton hotel in Boston.

Mrs. Hendel, 27, is a sales representative in New York for a hotel marketing and reservation systems division of the Sabre Holdings Corporation, the Southlake, Tex., travel reservations company. She graduated from Cornell.

Her father, an endocrinologist, conducts clinical research on bone and calcium disorders in Southborough for Eli Lilly & Company, the drug maker, and is a professor of medicine at the University of Massachusetts Medical School in Worcester. Her mother is a nutritionist in private practice in Marlborough, Mass.

Mr. Hendel, 30, is a portfolio manager at Levin Capital Strategies, an asset management firm in New York. He makes investments in companies that are going through mergers. His is also a founder of DataMinr, a business he is helping to develop in New York that provides analyses of data from Twitter for clients in the finance industry. He graduated from Yale.

His mother is a theatrical producer whose Broadway credits include “Red” (2010), “Caroline or Change” (2004) and the current productions of “Clybourne Park,” which won the 2012 Tony Award for best play, and “Death of a Salesman,” which won the 2012 Tony for best revival of a play. His father is a founder and a managing director of the Hess Energy Trading Company, a commodities trading affiliate of the Hess Corporation, the oil and gas company. He was a lead producer of the Broadway show “Fela!” (2009).
520 2012-06-17 Melissa Ashley Matarese, the daughter of Sheri Matarese and Dr. William Matarese of Franklin Lakes, N.J., was married Saturday afternoon on Nantucket Island, in Massachusetts, to Michael Bayard Fensterstock, a son of Joyce Fensterstock of Weston, Conn., and Blair Fensterstock of New York. Cantor Avraham Teken officiated at the Wauwinet, an inn.

Mrs. Fensterstock, 26, received an M.B.A. last month from Harvard. In July, she is to join an executive development program in New York with a science and medical division of Reed Elsevier, the British publishing company. She graduated from Johns Hopkins and received a master’s degree in bioscience enterprise from Cambridge in England.

The bride’s father is an orthopedic surgeon in Wayne, N.J. The bride’s mother manages her husband’s private practice.

Mr. Fensterstock, 29, is a marketing and business development director in New York at Fensterstock & Partners, a law firm of which his father is the founder and managing partner. The bridegroom is also studying for an executive M.B.A. at Johns Hopkins. He graduated from Bowdoin College.

His mother is a founder and the chief operating officer of Westwood Partners, an executive search firm in New York.
521 2012-06-17 Shannon Miriam Schissler and Maj. Andrew John Baker were married Saturday at the Cadet Chapel at West Point in West Point, N.Y. The Rev. Todd A. Cheney, a Baptist Army chaplain, performed the ceremony.

The bride, 30, is a foreign service officer for the United States Agency for International Development in La Paz, Bolivia. She designs and implements projects with Bolivian counterparts to address development issues in areas related to democracy and governance, economic growth and health. She graduated from Bucknell University and received a master’s degree in international administration from the University of Miami.

She is the daughter of Susan M. Schissler of Clark, N.J., and the late Roger A. Schissler.

The bridegroom, 35, is a United States Army engineer officer who will begin serving next month with the 27th Engineer Battalion at Fort Bragg, N.C. He graduated from West Point and received two master’s degrees: one in civil engineering from the University of Virginia and the other in engineering management from the University of Missouri at Rolla.

He is a son of Lynn S. Baker and John E. Baker of Burke, Va.

The couple met in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, in July 2009 at a party hosted by a mutual friend about a week after the Honduran military forcibly removed President Manuel Zelaya.

Ms. Schissler, a longtime Honduras resident, was working in Tegucigalpa for agency for international development as a Peace Corps intern after a two-and-a-half-year tour as a Peace Corps volunteer. Major Baker was new to Honduras, having recently begun a six-month tour based in Tegucigalpa managing projects for the Army Corps of Engineers throughout Central America.

That night, Ms. Schissler and Major Baker bonded over tacos and beer, their conversation jumping from the political unrest in Honduras to their careers to their love of travel to their love of dogs.
522 2012-06-17 Emily Graves Cook, a daughter of Elizabeth Cook and English Cook of Salisbury, N.C., was married Saturday to Christopher Sinnott Dwight, the son of Nancy S. Dwight and Donald R. Dwight of Boston. The Rev. Dr. James C. Dunkin performed the ceremony at the First Presbyterian Church in Salisbury, where he is the senior pastor.

The bride and bridegroom each received a master’s in education from Harvard, where they met.

Mrs. Dwight, 30, is the founding principal of the primary school of Gaston College Preparatory, a Knowledge Is Power Program school in Gaston, N.C. She graduated with distinction from the University of North Carolina.

The bride’s father is a sales account manager, in Salisbury, for American Solutions for Business, a distributor of custom-printed products. Her mother is the editor of The Salisbury Post, a daily newspaper.

Mr. Dwight, 28, was until last week the United States history teacher, an athletic coordinator and a football coach at Gaston College Preparatory’s high school. In August, he is to begin law school at the University of North Carolina. He graduated magna cum laude from Brown, then taught American history at Lee County High School in Marianna, Ark., for three years in the Teach for America program.

The bridegroom’s parents are directors of Newspapers of New England, a company in Concord, N.H., that publishes four daily and three weekly newspapers. From 1971 to 1975, the bridegroom’s father was the lieutenant governor of Massachusetts.
523 2012-06-17 And here we are, in an age of austerity surreally contradicted by the hundreds of millions being poured into campaigns. By some estimates Election 2012 will be a $2 billion affair, the majority of that probably amassed and put into play on the Republican side.

There are indeed two Americas and two economies: one in which a conservative titan like Sheldon Adelson and his relatives blithely funnel $21 million toward the lost cause of , and another in which the median net worth of an American family has dropped to $77,300, which is roughly where it was in the early 1990s.

Campaign spending skyrockets while government spending is under siege. Political ad makers get rich while infrastructure crumbles. And presidential candidates have been turned into platinum-level panhandlers. When they could and should be mulling the metastasizing challenges of a country on the ropes, they’re begging: to crowds of more than 1,000 and klatches of just a few dozen; over breakfasts and lunches and dinners; in multiple states on single days. Obama traveled to and on Tuesday and pulled off six fund-raisers in as many hours.

Today’s office seekers present vague promises but a detailed pricing chart. For X amount you get a speech; for more, a photo; for even more, all of that plus banter over canapés. Politicians are like airlines. You can fly them economy, business or first class.

Or you can try to buy one of your own. Isn’t that essentially what the Koch brothers and Adelson are doing? As Nicholas Confessore reported in The Times last week, Charles and David Koch lead a group of conservative donors who have pledged to raise some $400 million during this campaign cycle for issue groups, including their super PAC, while Adelson and his family have thus far given at least $35 million to super PACs that support Republicans. Of that, $10 million recently went to , which backs Romney. Adelson has said that he might spend $100 million when all is said and done.

“That is a great deal of money,” noted McCain, a longtime proponent of tighter regulations on money in politics, in an interview Thursday on “ NewsHour.” “And, again, we need a level playing field.”

WHAT we have, instead, is a gaudy free-for-all, so loopy and unctuous as to defy belief.

We have , the governor, yukking it up on the phone with a blogger who successfully passed himself off as David Koch and said, “I’ll fly you out to Cali and really show you a good time.”

We have Romney ignoring ’s attention-mongering tantrums about Obama’s birthplace in return for fund-raising help, including a 63rd birthday lunch for on the 66th floor of Trump Tower in Manhattan. That was in April. The cynosure of the equestrienne-themed cake was an edible Ann on an edible horse. The tally was reportedly $600,000.

We have both the Romney and Obama campaigns soliciting donations by promising to enter donors in lotteries for dinner with the candidate and one (or more) of his celebrity boosters, and we have e-mail subject lines from the Obama campaign like these: “Clooney,” “ . Really” and “Throw Bo a bone.”

Bo as in the First Dog. The money hunt enlists all creatures great and small.

We have early, primary-season assessments of candidates that hinge largely on what sort of fund-raising chops they seem to have. It’s a bizarre qualification for governing, but a transcendent one, and that’s been true for a few nutty decades now. in 2000, in 2004, this time around: all generated excitement because all generated money. Before the caucuses or the primary comes the first fund-raising report. It’s nearly as relevant a verdict.

We have difficulty taking anything at face value. Did , the Newark mayor, denounce the Obama campaign’s attacks on because he was really all that nettled by the negativity, or was he pacifying Wall Street, whose largess, which he enjoys, can be essential to a politician? It’s impossible not to wonder.

We have a financial arms race, which leads to a barrage of negative attack ads, which turn an already incendiary partisanship positively sulfurous.

Last week, as the fund-raising frenzy came into more ghastly relief, there were calls for a constitutional amendment to dismantle super PACs and for the Supreme Court to revisit Citizens United.

There was also a speech by , the leader of the Republican minority in the Senate, who likened the Obama campaign’s complaints about conservative megadonors to ’s so-called enemies list. McConnell praised Citizens United as a victory for free speech.

Hearing the word “free” in this context was the most surreal wrinkle of all, because right now we’re shackled to a system that demeans the people running for office, corrodes voters’ trust in them and doesn’t do any honor to this democracy of ours.
524 2012-06-17 From this, you no doubt understand my sympathy for Mr. Cariou or, at least, the Rastafarian.

Mr. Prince was not as sympathetic. He fought the lawsuit, claiming that he had sufficiently altered Mr. Cariou’s photographs to bring the works exhibited at Gagosian Gallery within the fair use doctrine, which allows artists to borrow from other works so long as they give a new expression or meaning to the original work. But the trial court rejected Mr. Prince’s argument, thereby exposing him to liability for the millions of dollars he had earned from the exhibition and giving Mr. Cariou the right to destroy the unsold paintings.

And the court did not stop with Mr. Prince. Because Mr. Prince was known to use images from other sources, the gallery and its owner were held liable for failing to investigate Mr. Prince’s paintings for copyright violations.

This caused museums across the country to file a brief with the court of appeals. They argued that they would be forced to hire lawyers to investigate their collections for works containing borrowed images, and given the ubiquity of such images in 20th-century art, the cost to the museums would be unsustainable. The more likely, though no less troubling, alternative is for museums to censor what they exhibit.

Should the law require this?

The answer revealed itself to me when, a couple of years ago, “Rips in the Mirror” — one of several paintings Mr. Salle did of me, a couple with cheese — came up for auction. Deciding to end my public association with an item more typically paired with a plate of crackers, I resolved to purchase the painting and retire it. When I explained to the young woman at the auction house what I was prepared to pay for the painting, she chuckled and then, politely, replied, “I am sorry, sir, but recent sales for his group have been quite strong.”

“His group” was what art critics and collectors now refer to as the “Pictures Generation” — a movement of artists who, skeptical of the artistic as well as commercial images that surrounded them, appropriated those images into their own work and then subverted them. It was a strategy that drew upon the early works of James Rosenquist.

The strength of interest in the Pictures Generation has caused the prices of their works to reach sums in the millions — stunning sums, the very sums that thwarted my attempt to remove the cheese portrait from circulation.

Patrick Cariou is not. He is an ethnographic photographer, and it is the sort of photographs he takes that have been some of the subjects of appropriation and subversion by the Pictures Generation. For this reason, the markets for Mr. Prince and Mr. Cariou are not just distinct; they are conflicting. In other words, no one heading out to purchase an ethnographic photograph by Mr. Cariou (or anyone else) was going to be diverted by the Prince show at Gagosian.

And that should be the answer to the legal question. Since Mr. Prince caused no economic injury to Mr. Cariou, despite his claims to the contrary, Mr. Prince should not be required to turn over his profits (or works).

So, too, with the Salle painting. It is David Salle and the artistic movement with which he is associated, and to which he has greatly contributed, that give value to his paintings — and not, sadly, my image. For those who believe otherwise, I have boxes of old photographs I would be happy to sell.
525 2012-06-17 Of New York City’s summonses in 2011, most were dismissed or thrown out:
526 2012-06-17 Many of these halfway houses are as big as prisons, with several hundred beds, and bear little resemblance to the neighborhood halfway houses of the past, where small groups of low-level offenders were sent to straighten up.

New Jersey officials have called these large facilities an innovative example of privatization and have promoted the approach all the way to the Obama White House.

Yet with little oversight, the state’s halfway houses have mutated into a shadow corrections network, where drugs, gang activity and violence, including sexual assaults, often go unchecked, according to a 10-month investigation by .

Perhaps the most unsettling sign of the chaos within is inmates’ ease in getting out.

Since 2005, roughly 5,100 inmates have escaped from the state’s privately run halfway houses, including at least 1,300 in the 29 months since Governor Christie took office, according to an analysis by The Times.

Some inmates left through the back, side or emergency doors of halfway houses, or through smoking areas, state records show. Others placed dummies in their beds as decoys, or fled while being returned to prison for violating halfway houses’ rules. Many had permission to go on work-release programs but then did not return.

While these halfway houses often resemble traditional correctional institutions, they have much less security. There are no correction officers, and workers are not allowed to restrain inmates who try to leave or to locate those who do not come back from work release, the most common form of escape. The halfway houses’ only recourse is to alert the authorities.

And so the inmates flee in a steady stream: 46 last September, 39 in October, 40 in November, 38 in December, state records show.

“The system is a mess,” said Thaddeus B. Caldwell, who spent four years tracking down halfway house escapees in New Jersey as a senior corrections investigator. “No matter how many escaped, no matter how many were caught, no matter how many committed heinous acts while they were on the run, they still kept releasing more guys into the halfway houses, and it kept happening over and over again.”

By contrast, the state’s prisons had three escapes in 2010 and none in the first nine months of 2011, the last period for which the state gave figures.

After The Times began its investigation last year, Mr. Christie adopted measures that his aides said would more tightly regulate the system. They said that because of these reforms, only 181 inmates had escaped in the first five months of 2012 — a 35 percent decline when compared with a similar period in 2009, before he took office.

But over several months of inquiries from The Times, state officials also revised downward the escape totals during Mr. Christie’s tenure.

Many inmates who escape from halfway houses are recaptured within hours or days, or turn themselves in after having second thoughts. But many remain at large for weeks, if not months, and are caught only after committing new crimes.

They have been arrested on charges of assaulting police officers, holding up a gas station and shooting strangers. They have been found selling drugs outside Newark schools and wielding a knife inside a bus station. Some have been caught as far away as .

At least 85 inmates are currently at large, according to state records.

These men and women could be charged with felonies for escaping but typically are not. Usually, they are simply returned to prison to finish their original sentences. Some end up back at halfway houses.

The Times’s investigation encompassed more than 200 interviews with current and former halfway house workers, inmates, officials and others, as well as a review of thousands of pages of government, court and corporate records.

Mr. Christie, a Republican who took office in January 2010, has for years championed the company that plays a principal role in the New Jersey system, Community Education Centers.

Community Education received about $71 million from state and county agencies in New Jersey in the 2011 fiscal year, out of total halfway house spending of roughly $105 million, according to state and company records.

The company first obtained substantial contracts for its “re-entry centers” in New Jersey in the late 1990s, as state financing began increasing sharply. In recent years, it has cited its success in New Jersey in obtaining government contracts in , and other states.

William J. Palatucci, who is the governor’s close friend, political adviser and former law partner, is a senior vice president at Community Education.

Mr. Christie himself was registered as a lobbyist for the company in 2000 and 2001 when he was a private lawyer, according to disclosure reports that his law firm filed with the state. In early 2010, he hired the son-in-law of Community Education’s chief executive as an assistant in the governor’s office, according to state personnel records.

And as attorney for New Jersey and then governor, Mr. Christie has often visited the company’s halfway houses and praised its work. The company has highlighted those visits in its publicity material.

“Places like this are to be celebrated,” Mr. Christie said in a 2010 speech at a 1,200-bed Community Education facility in Newark, a speech featured on the company’s Web site.

“A spotlight should be put on them as representing the very best of the human spirit,” he said. “Because as you walk through here, as I’ve done many times, what you see right before your very eyes are miracles happening.”

Mr. Christie would not be interviewed for this article.

In a statement, his spokesman, Michael Drewniak, said Community Education had been “associated with public contracting in New Jersey going back no less than 18 years to the administration of Gov. James Florio and every governor, Democrat or Republican, since that time.”

“The suggestion of favoritism is defeated by the demonstrable fact that none has occurred,” Mr. Drewniak said.

Mr. Drewniak emphasized that Mr. Christie had had a deep interest in improving drug treatment and other services for prisoners since his days as a county lawmaker in the 1990s.

Community Education said it had developed a highly successful model of “community corrections” that had improved the lives of hundreds of thousands of inmates across the country. It said the rate of escapes at its halfway houses in New Jersey was “staggeringly low,” given the many people who go through the system. And it blamed other halfway house operators for allowing escapes of inmates whom Community Education had first handled.

“To focus on walkaways from halfway houses would be to report on only part of the story and not include the positive outcomes for the majority of offenders who complete a halfway house program without walking away,” the company said in a statement.

Roughly 10,000 prison inmates and parolees a year — equivalent to about 40 percent of the state prison population — now pass through the system of halfway houses; most spend time at a Community Education halfway house.

But regulation by a patchwork of state and county agencies has been lax. The state comptroller determined last year that there were “crucial weaknesses in state oversight.”

The Christie administration began fining Community Education and other operators for escapes only in April, eight months after The Times undertook its investigation.

The Legislature has not scrutinized the system either.

Assemblyman Charles Mainor, a Democrat and police detective who is chairman of the Law and Public Safety Committee, was asked for his estimate of how many people escaped from halfway houses in 2011.

“I have heard of no more than three,” he responded.

According to state records, the number was 452.

Assemblyman Sean T. Kean, a Republican, said of the escapes, “It’s not really a problem.”

“It’s a cheaper way of doing business,” he said of the system, “so that’s why it behooves us to use that option.”

Viviana Tulli stuck out her tongue in family photos. She threw water balloons at friends. Once, to make her sister laugh, she took a running jump and dived into an eight-foot bush in front of their home in Garfield, N.J., a suburb of New York.

She had worked at a pet store — few animals were ever loved more than her Chihuahuas, Mikey and Hennessy — but had not settled on a career.

She was 16 when she met David Goodell, who was a decade older and claimed to be affiliated with the Bloods gang.

“Everybody had a bad feeling about him,” said Martha Galan, now 22, a close friend, who often shared secrets with Ms. Tulli on her family’s porch.

Mr. Goodell wore baggy jeans and oversize sweatshirts that swallowed his 140-pound frame. He had the temper and swagger of an insecure man trying to act tough.

He was arrested in 1997 for committing three robberies and then briefly spent time in Talbot Hall, a Community Education halfway house. In 2003, he was released on parole.

He worked as a warehouse packer and a truck driver but was arrested again in 2008, after he pinned a former girlfriend to the ground and threatened to kill her if she did not give him money.

While he was in custody on those charges, his romance with Ms. Tulli took off. He wrote her dozens of long letters addressed to “Supergirlfriend” or He promised her a future far from New Jersey.

“The times that are to come with you and I are gonna be the greatest times of both of our lives,” Mr. Goodell wrote.

His letters were filled with meticulous drawings shaded in pinks and blues — the two of them smiling in matching clothes, a tearful boy holding a flower for her.

Ms. Tulli told her parents he was just a pen pal, but she enjoyed the attention. She kept his letters in a folder hidden in her bedroom. She visited him and sent him photos of herself.

In September 2009, at the time of Mr. Goodell’s sentencing, Judge Nestor F. Guzman, of Superior Court in Passaic County, wrote that there was a “risk that defendant will commit another offense,” according to his case file.

Six months later, after 16 months behind bars, Mr. Goodell was paroled and transferred to a Community Education halfway house.

The company’s halfway houses, like others in the system, have varying degrees of security. Some allow inmates to leave on work release, and those facilities tend to have the most escapes. Other halfway houses are locked down, but restrictions are sometimes sidestepped.

Mr. Goodell was sent to Logan Hall, which in recent years had one of the highest totals of escapes in the halfway house system — 185 from 2009 through 2011, according to state records. There, he used a cellphone to call Ms. Tulli constantly. Inmates are not allowed to have them, but cellphones, like drugs and almost anything else, were readily obtainable in Logan, former workers and inmates said.

That set him off.

Mr. Goodell had often boasted to her that in prison he pretended to be ill to get privileges. On Aug. 29, 2010, at Logan Hall, he did so again, to seem as if he had a , prosecutors said.

A low-level Community Education worker escorted him to University Hospital in Newark.

Many Community Education workers are paid little more than minimum wage and have previous job experience that amounted to operating a convenience store register. The worker, like all halfway-house employees, had no authority to restrain Mr. Goodell.

At the hospital, he slipped away.

He persuaded Ms. Tulli to meet him nearby in the middle of the night. Before she left, she poked her head in her mother’s bedroom to say goodbye and wish her a happy birthday. Her mother turned 60 the next day.

At 1:11 p.m., the police received a phone call that a man covered in blood was standing in the Ridgefield Park High School parking lot.

When the police arrived, Mr. Goodell jumped behind the wheel of Ms. Tulli’s car and sped away. After a chase, he was cornered in a cul-de-sac.

Officers found Ms. Tulli’s body in the passenger seat. She had been suffocated. Mr. Goodell, who had slashed his wrists, was charged with murder. The case is pending against Mr. Goodell, who is now 32.

In the days after the killing, Ms. Tulli’s relatives took solace in announcements by the Christie administration and Community Education that they would conduct separate inquiries and consider adopting reforms.

“Use my sister as an example,” her older sister, Stella Tulli, recalled thinking. “Security needs to be tightened in all aspects. There’s money being funded, and there’s no accountability.”

And so they waited, hopefully, for the findings.

When the system was created, the large halfway houses were intended to help low-level offenders toward the end of their sentences. Inmates would be housed in dormitory-style rooms and receive drug treatment, job counseling and other services.

Many experts praise the halfway-house model, saying that if facilities are well managed, inmates are less likely to return to crime. State officials and Community Education the system with helping to reduce the state’s recidivism rate, as well as its prison population, which fell to 25,000 in 2010 from 30,000 in 2000, federal data show.

Community Education offered a tour of one of its facilities, the 500-bed Talbot Hall, showing off orderly group counseling sessions and tidy living spaces.

In interviews of inmates who had been in the company’s halfway houses, some spoke highly of its programs.

“It taught me how to have patience, how to keep moving forward and stop looking back,” said Sal Hemingway, 41, who was imprisoned on murder charges in the 1990s and was in a Community Education facility last year.

The financial incentive is also clear. The state spends about $125 to $150 a day to house an inmate in a prison. The corrections, parole and other government agencies in New Jersey pay roughly $60 to $75 per inmate per day to operators of halfway houses, including Community Education, based in West Caldwell, N.J.

But as the system has grown, the percentage of New Jersey inmates convicted of violent crimes but lodged in halfway houses has been rising, to 21 percent now from 12 percent in 2006, according to state statistics. Their ranks currently include dozens of people serving time for murder, and hundreds convicted of armed robbery, assault or weapons possession — some of whom escaped.

At the same time, the state acknowledges that it has never examined whether the system helps inmates. Last year, the Christie administration commissioned a three-year study. Community Education has financed its own research that it says shows the success of its programs.

Mr. Christie has also established a task force to coordinate the state’s efforts intended to help inmates as they leave prisons.

Over all, New Jersey’s system has about 3,500 beds in two dozen or so halfway houses. Community Education runs six large facilities, with a total of 1,900 beds for state inmates and parolees, along with others for county and federal inmates.

Community Education’s leading role in the system means that the company had been responsible at one point for many of the inmates who escaped.

All inmates transferred to halfway houses by the Corrections Department are required to first spend about two months at a Community Education halfway house that serves as an assessment center. (Parolees generally do not.)

The company says it evaluates the inmates and recommends to the state which ones are low-risk and unlikely to escape. Those inmates are then transferred to other halfway houses — run by Community Education or other operators.

Thus, though facilities run by a nonprofit organization, the Kintock Group, accounted for nearly half of the escapes in recent years, according to state records, many of those inmates arrived at Kintock after first being deemed low-risk by Community Education halfway houses. From 2009 through 2011, about 16 percent of escapes were from Community Education halfway houses, according to state data. Another 43 percent were inmates who had been evaluated by Community Education halfway houses and then escaped from others.

Robert Mackey, a senior vice president at Community Education, said in an interview that the company had excellent security and strove to prevent escapes by providing therapy and other services to discourage inmates from leaving.

“If somebody was climbing over that fence right now, our recourse would be to notify the authorities,” Dr. Mackey said. “We could not physically take them off the fence to restrain them from escaping.”

He added, “The staff here are not law-enforcement officers.”

The company said a better way to measure its security was to examine how few inmates escaped, given the tens of thousands who went through its facilities in recent years. It said that by its calculation, since 2005, 0.53 percent of inmates from the Corrections Department and 3.3 percent of inmates from the Parole Board had escaped.

Dr. Mackey said the company could not be held responsible for inmates who had entered the halfway house system through its facilities and then escaped from others. “We certainly didn’t cause the escape,” he said. “The other halfway houses also have to look at, what are they doing.”

David D. Fawkner, chairman of the Kintock Group, said he was surprised to learn of the frequency of escapes from Kintock halfway houses.

“The number does take me back a little bit,” he said.

Mr. Fawkner said halfway houses served a difficult population moving into the community.

“We’re not a prison,” he said. “Our job is not to keep them in.”

Kintock paid Mr. Fawkner $778,316 in 2009 when he was chief executive, according to disclosure forms.

Last year, the New Jersey comptroller, Matthew Boxer, released an audit that found that many halfway houses had loose security, and that state inspections were lenient, if done at all. One halfway-house administrator had the dates for supposedly unannounced inspections noted in advance on a calendar.

“As a state, we have done a poor job of monitoring the program and have made no real attempt to find out what taxpayers are getting for their money,” Mr. Boxer said.

Experts said it was extremely difficult to compare halfway house escape rates among states because systems varied greatly.

But Mary Shilton, executive director of the International Community Corrections Association, a trade group that supports the halfway house movement, said she was startled to hear of The Times’s findings on the numbers of escapes in New Jersey.

“Given that there will always be risk, are we doing our very best to respond to escapes at the state and local level?” she asked.

Gary M. Lanigan, the state corrections commissioner, who was appointed by Mr. Christie, defended the system.

“I’ve not been shown what I think is a better model,” Mr. Lanigan said in an interview.

Asked whether he felt pressure because of Community Education’s political ties, he said, “Absolutely not.”

He said the company obtained state contracts through an impartial bidding process that was “fair and insulated.”

Mr. Lanigan was told that state records showed that roughly 5,100 inmates under the supervision of the Corrections Department and Parole Board had escaped since 2005.

“That’s not a familiar number to me,” he said.

“Acceptable is zero,” he said. “An escape is an escape.”

Mr. Lanigan said he was tightening oversight. In April, the department issued $15,000 in fines against Community Education for three escapes last year. The department also fined Kintock $5,000, and another nonprofit agency, CURA, $10,000.

“I’ve been out to every one of the halfway houses more than once,” Mr. Lanigan said in the interview. “I’d venture a guess you’re not going to find one of the prior commissioners that ever did that.”

After the interview, the Corrections Department emphasized that inmates who fled halfway houses should be referred to as “walkaways” to distinguish them from inmates who escape prisons.

The term “walkaway,” though, does not exist in state law. Inmates who flee halfway houses can be charged with escaping or absconding, depending on which agency is supervising them. Both are felonies with a sentence of three to five years.

This month, the department also revised downward its calculation for the number of escapes in 2010 and 2011 by 15 percent. It said it had weeded out what it referred to as “technical violations,” including inmates who were listed as having escaped but merely returned late from work-release programs.

Last summer, many of New Jersey’s most powerful officials assembled for a wedding that bridged the worlds of politics and prisons.

The bride was Jessica Clancy, a daughter of John J. Clancy, Community Education’s founder and chief executive. The groom was Samuel Viavattine, whom Mr. Christie hired in 2010 as an assistant in the governor’s office. He is now paid $42,000 a year.

Mr. Christie attended the wedding, as did State Senator , a Democrat who is a former governor and Senate president. He served as Community Education’s broker for many years and plays with Mr. Clancy.

Among others at the wedding was Joseph N. DiVincenzo Jr., the Essex County chief executive, a Democrat who is close to Mr. Christie.

The three elected officials and their associated party committees have received more than $200,000 in campaign contributions from Community Education, its executives and their family members over the last decade, according to state records.

Mr. Clancy, who got his start running a drug-treatment center in Hoboken, was one of the first entrepreneurs to realize that halfway houses could be big business.

In New Jersey, as in many other states, expenditures for prisons have been among the fastest-rising. Mr. Clancy had an alluring sales pitch: Trenton could reduce costs and improve services by turning over inmates to Community Education.

In the 1990s, Mr. Clancy worked out an unusual arrangement. Under state law, only nonprofit agencies can receive contracts for halfway houses. But regulators allowed Community Education to obtain contracts through a nonprofit called Education and Health Centers of America, state records show.

That arrangement remains. The primary purpose of the nonprofit has been to pay Community Education hundreds of millions of dollars that the nonprofit has received in recent years from state and county agencies, disclosure records show. The nonprofit has only 10 employees, and gave Mr. Clancy a $351,346 salary in its 2011 fiscal year, according to the records. Community Education itself, which is privately held, does not disclose how much it separately pays Mr. Clancy.

Early on, Mr. Clancy hired a law firm, Dughi, Hewit & Palatucci, to lobby in Trenton. Its lobbyists were Mr. Christie and Mr. Palatucci, who were close friends and rising political stars. Community Education and Mr. Christie’s aides said Mr. Palatucci, not Mr. Christie, lobbied for the company, though both men were listed on disclosure forms.

Mr. Christie and Mr. Palatucci were major fund-raisers for ’s 2000 presidential campaign. After Mr. Bush won, Mr. Palatucci sent Mr. Christie’s résumé to , the president’s political strategist. Soon after, Mr. Bush picked Mr. Christie to be the United States attorney for New Jersey.

In that job, Mr. Christie had no direct role in the state corrections system. Even so, he regularly visited Community Education’s facilities. He even attended the ribbon-cutting at the company’s new corporate headquarters in 2007.

If Mr. Christie was gruff, Mr. Palatucci was unflappable. His dark hair was never out of place, and his suits always fit just so. He knew everyone in Republican circles.

In 2005, Mr. Clancy hired Mr. Palatucci as Community Education’s senior vice president for business development, though he did not have major experience in corrections. The company said Mr. Palatucci does not lobby the Christie administration.

Shortly before Mr. Christie became governor, he formed a transition committee on prison policy that included Ralph Fretz, Community Education’s director of assessment and research. Dr. Fretz pushed for more money for halfway houses, but others on the panel resisted. Nancy Wolff, director of the Center for Behavioral Health Services and Criminal Justice Research at , clashed with Dr. Fretz, who she says was trying to further Community Education’s business interests during the discussions.

Dr. Wolff was not one to easily back down. She resembles a kindergarten teacher, with plain and hair tucked behind her ears, but she has spent much of the past two decades immersed in the prison system, interviewing inmates across the Northeast. Along the way, she has become a critic of New Jersey’s halfway houses.

“This industry just infuriates me,” she said in an interview. “If you want to go there and sit in peer-run groups — or hang out and smoke and play cards and have access to drugs — it’s a great place.”

Dr. Wolff sought cuts in the budget for halfway houses, in favor of more treatment inside prisons. When her proposal was removed from the preliminary report, she resigned.

In a statement, the company said: “Dr. Fretz did not ‘skew’ the final report. To the contrary, it reflected the consensus of and was approved by each of the members of the panel.”

Currently, the Corrections Department has 11 percent fewer beds under contract with Community Education than it did when Mr. Christie succeeded Gov. , a Democrat. But the company’s revenue from the department has grown by 22 percent in that period, records show.

As re-entry has become a popular term across the country, Community Education has opened facilities in many states, using its New Jersey operations as a selling point.

“Building more prisons is not the answer to solving the problem of recidivism,” Mr. Clancy said in a company news release. “The answer, in our view, is for departments of corrections nationwide to partner with organizations such as ours to help individuals permanently re-enter society.”

With a polished public-relations arm, Community Education often publicizes testimonials from inmates who say their lives have been turned around by its halfway houses.

But problems have dogged the company’s facilities. In last year, an inmate died after her complications went untreated. In Colorado, state inspectors found evidence of fraud, and inmates described assaults, gang violence and rampant drug use.

Former executives of the company said it had financial problems after expanding too rapidly. The company defaulted on some of its debt in 2009, according to former executives and an employment lawsuit. In 2010, it borrowed at a steep interest rate of 15.25 percent, according to securities records.

Community Education’s former chief financial officer, David N. T. Watson, who was hired in 2009, sued the company the next year. He asserted that Mr. Clancy lied about the financial problems when recruiting him and fired him without cause. In court papers, Mr. Watson called the company a “sinking ship.”

Mr. Watson would not comment. Community Education denied the allegations. It said it had never defaulted on any of its debt.

Last year, the company saw a new opportunity: a $130 million contract to house Essex County inmates and detained immigrants. It was the only bidder, proposing to use its 1,200-bed Delaney Hall in Newark.

Advocates for immigrants, who criticized conditions at Delaney Hall, charged that the process was unfair. They said the contract was written to ensure that only Community Education could qualify. Federal authorities later acknowledged that they had been told by the county that the contract would go to Community Education.

And it did.

The official overseeing the bidding was Mr. DiVincenzo, the Essex County executive and ally of Mr. Christie.

Thaddeus B. Caldwell would jump in his car at 2 a.m. at the hint of a fresh lead. He kept his shoes polished, his suit pressed, his goatee neatly trimmed. He spoke so precisely that you could almost hear each punctuation mark.

But no matter how hard he tried, he never felt he was making headway.

“It was like an endless thing,” he said. “If we apprehended 10, 10 more escaped, maybe 20 more escaped.”

Mr. Caldwell, now 49, was part of a prestigious division of the Corrections Department that tracked down escaped prisoners. If the unit had been able to focus only on inmates who had fled prisons, there would have been little work.

But each month, numerous inmates escaped from halfway houses. The team of about six investigators had up to 200 cases at a time.

“You could never keep up,” recalled Miggins, 66, another former investigator.

The unit focused on violent fugitives, but there was no way of knowing who would snap. And many of the escaped inmates returned to crime.

“They really have no choice,” Mr. Caldwell said. “They certainly can’t get a legitimate job.”

Mr. Caldwell grew up in Newark, and when he was working the streets, he would blend into the crowd, cajoling drug dealers and shopkeepers for information. He kept casual clothes in his trunk: Timberland boots, baggy jeans, an oversize T-shirt and a cap, which he wore backward.

Raids to apprehend fugitives usually took place before dawn. Often, the convicts would try to elude capture by scampering out a window. Violence sometimes erupted.

The unit could not rely on other agencies for help. They had their own challenges.

Sheriff Armando B. Fontoura of Essex County, which is home to about 12 percent of halfway house inmates, said his office received numerous notices of escapes but lacked the staff to respond.

“It’s very, very frustrating for us,” Sheriff Fontoura said. “When you want to escape, it’s a very easy thing to do.”

Carnell Davis, who was serving a sentence for armed robbery, escaped from the Harbor, a Community Education halfway house then in Hoboken, in April 2005. Five months later, he was arrested and charged with killing a taxi driver and the man’s brother.

“I was responsible for catching him, but unfortunately, there were so many people on my caseload,” Mr. Caldwell said. “Who knew that he would be the one?”

Corrections officials took no action against the Harbor or Community Education over the escape.

Mr. Caldwell said he remained surprised that after the Davis case and others like it, nothing changed.

“I used to think every time someone would get killed or there would be some outrage, there would be an instant outcry,” he said. “But then it would go away.

“There was nothing done about any particular halfway house that had an inordinate amount of escapes as opposed to any other,” he added. “It just appeared to be, that’s the way business was done.”

Mr. Caldwell retired from state corrections in 2009 and went to work for Community Education. He said he reasoned that he might help prevent escapes by improving security from the inside. But he resigned after less than a year, disillusioned with the company. He is currently an administrator at a New Jersey jail.

When the fugitive unit arrested escapees, the investigators often asked them why they had fled.

Some claimed the reason was dangerous conditions inside. Others shrugged. But Mr. Caldwell and his colleagues still puzzle over a basic question: Why would inmates escape from a halfway house only months before they would be freed?

Corrections officials maintain that the reason is often problems at home — a girlfriend takes up with someone else; a mother falls ill.

Mr. Caldwell and his colleagues say the large number of escapes from halfway houses is an indictment of the system. They argue that either the facilities are accepting the wrong kinds of inmates, or the services are not meaningful.

“They were touting these as such great programs,” Mr. Caldwell said. “If that’s the case, and inmates were getting such great benefits, why would they want to leave?”

On the Run, but No Charges

Valeria Parziale was one of 19 inmates to escape from New Jersey halfway houses in one week in October 2009. She fled the Albert M. Robinson Assessment and Treatment Center, a Community Education facility in Trenton that is intended to be more secure than other halfway houses, but had two escapes that day.

Nine days later, in a Newark liquor store, Ms. Parziale, now 33, attacked a man with a folding knife, cutting off part of his ear and slashing his face, prosecutors said. She was arrested and charged with aggravated assault and possession of a weapon.

Prosecutors in Essex County, where she was arrested, and Mercer County, where she had escaped, say that they were not aware that she was a fugitive, and that they learned of her status only after The Times alerted them to it more than two years later.

The establishment of the system of halfway houses amounted to a major change in corrections in New Jersey. But state and county agencies — prosecutors, the police, corrections officials — have done little to coordinate oversight.

Two months after Ms. Parziale escaped, Rafael Miranda fled the halfway house run by the Kintock group in Newark.

Four months later, Mr. Miranda pulled out a gun during an argument at the Stadium Sports Bar and Grill in Newark. He attacked a bouncer and then fatally shot another man, officials said.

Other examples abound, according to prosecutors:

¶ Leland Washington held up a gas station with a knife and tried to force an attendant into the bathroom.

¶ Aryam Mojica assaulted a police officer who pulled over his car.

¶ Hiram Rivera Jr. was caught with a cache of weapons and drugs.

The failure to control the system extends to what happens after fugitives like these are captured: They typically are not charged. They are simply returned to prison to finish out their original sentences.

Approximately 1,000 inmates have fled halfway houses in Essex County since 2009. Yet the county prosecutor’s office said it had pursued such charges in only about 100 cases in that time. And the office would provide information on only three.

“If they’re gone for a relatively short period of time and turn themselves back in and face administrative consequences for that, that would tend to be cases we don’t prosecute,” said Carolyn A. Murray, the acting Essex prosecutor.

Among the escapes in Essex were those from Logan Hall, the Community Education halfway house in Newark that housed Mr. Goodell, who is charged in the killing of Ms. Tulli.

In fact, in the month when Ms. Tulli was killed, August 2010, 10 other inmates fled Logan Hall. Those 10 had been imprisoned on robbery, drug and weapons charges. After they escaped, they stayed out for an average of about 40 days. None of the 10 were charged for leaving, according to county records.

Five other inmates fled Logan Hall the next month, just after the Christie administration and Community Education, prompted by the Tulli case, promised inquiries into security at halfway houses.

Ms. Tulli’s family had believed that the inquiries meant that the administration would reform the system. But nearly two years later, the family is still waiting for the findings.

Community Education said it had done an informal investigation and found no wrongdoing by the company. “It would be grossly irresponsible” to say the halfway house was in any way at fault, the company said.

“People have to be held accountable for their own behavior,” said Dr. Mackey, the company’s senior executive.

David W. Thomas, executive director of the State Parole Board, said it had conducted an inquiry, but he would offer no details.

Asked for a copy, Mr. Thomas said, “There is no actual document.”
527 2012-06-17 Absolute peace is an unattainable goal, she said. “But it is one towards which we must continue to journey, our eyes fixed on it as a traveler in a desert fixes his eyes on the one guiding star that will lead him to salvation.”

She had thought much on the Buddhist idea of “dukkha,” or suffering, in her long years of isolation and house arrest, Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi said. “If suffering were an unavoidable part of our existence, we should try to alleviate it as far as possible in practical, earthly ways.”

One crucial avenue, she said, was simple kindness. “Of the sweets of adversity, and let me say that those are not numerous, I have found the sweetest, the most precious of all, is the lesson I learned on the value of kindness,” she said, with a rare shred of humor. “Every kindness I received, small or big, convinced me that there could never be enough of it in the world.” Kindness, she said, “can change the lives of people.”

Her comments on Myanmar were careful but considered. She called for national reconciliation and cease-fire agreements between the government and “ethnic nationality forces,” which she said she hoped would “lead to political settlements founded on the aspirations of the peoples, and the spirit of the nation.”

“In my own country,” she said, “hostilities have not ceased in the far north,” and “to the west, communal violence” has flared in the days before she left Myanmar. She spoke of the Burmese concept of peace, which she defined as “the happiness arising from the cessation of factors that militate against the harmonious and the wholesome.” The term, nyein-chan, translates literally, she said, as “the beneficial coolness that comes when a fire is extinguished.”

She had never thought of winning prizes, she said. “The prize we were working for was a free, secure and just society,” she said. “The honor lay in our endeavor.”

Her endurance against dictatorship and steadfastness to her principles has brought comparisons to Nelson Mandela. Her life has also been one of personal sacrifice.

For her country, and for the legacy of her father, Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi could be said to have given up her family: her beloved husband, Michael Aris, a professor of Tibetan and Himalayan Studies at Oxford, and her two children, Alexander and Kim, who grew up largely without her. Myanmar’s former military government persistently refused to grant them visas to visit her, even when Mr. Aris grew ill with prostate cancer, apparently in the hope that she would leave Myanmar herself to visit them.

She refused to do so, fearing with reason that the government would not allow her back into the country. After Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s initial house arrest in 1989, Mr. Aris was allowed to visit only five times, the last time during Christmas in 1995. He died in March 1999, on his 53rd birthday; to the end, he supported her decision to remain in Myanmar.

She had returned to Myanmar from Britain in March 1988 to nurse her ill mother, Daw Khin Kyi, and became caught up in the swirling protests against years of eccentric autocracy and military rule. In January 1989, just after her mother’s funeral, she and her husband sat for a rare interview at her mother’s house in Rangoon, now Yangon, as their children ran about the rooms, with their faded colonial elegance.

“You know, when I married Michael,” she said, “I made him promise that if there was ever a time that I had to go back to my country, he would not stand in my way. And he promised.” Mr. Aris said: “That’s true. She made me promise.”

She said then that she understood how much her stature depended on her father’s aura. “I don’t pretend that I don’t owe my position in Burmese politics to my father, at least at the beginning,” she said. “It’s time to look at what people do.”

At another moment, she said: “Really, I’m doing this for my father. I’m quite happy they see me as my father’s daughter. My only concern is that I prove worthy of him.”

Once fate intervened, she chose the life she has lived, and there is little doubt that she has proved herself fierce, loyal and worthy, both to her father and to her people.

Thorbjorn Jagland, the chairman of the Norwegian Nobel Committee, praised her and thanked her “for your fearlessness, your tenacity and your strength.” He said: “Your life is a message to all of us.”
528 2012-06-17 The White House issued a statement on Saturday once again calling on Syria to uphold commitments it has made in recent months, “including the full implementation of a cease-fire.” The statement added, “We are consulting with our international partners regarding next steps toward a Syrian-led political transition” called for in two resolutions, and “the sooner this transition takes place, the greater the chance of averting a lengthy and bloody civil war.”

Syria’s uprising has become one of the most intractable and deadliest conflicts of the Arab Spring, with reports of at least four massacres in recent weeks, including accounts of killings of as many as 78 civilians, many of them women and children.

On Saturday, dozens of Syrians were killed in government attacks across the country, especially in villages around Damascus, the capital, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a group based in with contacts in Syria. The group and other activists said security forces were carrying out sweeping arrests, particularly of young men, in towns around the capital.

The Obama administration is resisting calls to arm rebel groups, for fear that they are not an organized force and could eventually turn on one another. “The problem is that if we do nothing and Syria explodes, we have a broader conflict in the ,” a senior American diplomat said last week, before the United Nations announcement, adding, “But our options aren’t any better than they were a year ago.”

The observers had been the foundation of a six-point peace plan that , the former United Nations secretary general and the special envoy to Syria, had sought to hammer out with the consent of Mr. Assad and his foreign sponsors, including Russia and .

Both of those countries have huge stakes in the outcome: Russia has a military base in Syria and has long used Mr. Assad as an instrument to project influence in the region, and the Syrian government is Iran’s only real ally in the region. But Russia has frozen strong action, complaining that the West went beyond its humanitarian mandate when it aided the overthrow of Col. in Libya last year.

The leader of the observer mission in Syria, Gen. Robert Mood, said in a statement that he had little choice but to suspend the mission. Escalating violence across Syria over the past 10 days had prevented the teams from carrying out their mandate to verify events on the ground. They have repeatedly been attacked by pro-government supporters, driving them back in recent days from the village of Al Heffa, which had been under assault all week until all its residents fled.

“The lack of willingness by the parties to seek a peaceful transition, and the push toward advancing military positions is increasing the losses on both sides: innocent civilians, men, women and children are being killed every day,” General Mood said. “It is also posing significant risks to our observers.” But he emphasized that he was only suspending the mission, not ending it, and would evaluate daily the chances for resuming its activities.

Ahmad Fawzi, Mr. Annan’s spokesman, said General Mood was responding in part to pressure from countries that contributed the observers.

“Troop-contributing countries are saying our men and women are at risk, we are having second thoughts about this operation,” Mr. Fawzi said. “They are in danger and they want the danger to go away.”

“There is nothing final,” he said. “It is a suspension, not termination.” But patrols would resume only “when we return to a situation where both sides show us that they are serious and earnest about stopping the killing of each other.”

General Mood is expected to fly to New York to brief the Security Council on Monday.

Responding to the observers’ decision, Syria’s government said Saturday that it respected both the peace plan and the safety of the United Nations observers. But it blamed the opposition for the escalation of violence in Syria. In a statement, the Foreign Ministry also assailed “Arab and international powers” for arming the rebels and supporting their “defiance of the U.N. plan.”

By mid-July the original 90-day mandate for the observers will expire. But the suspension, if prolonged, will focus new pressure on those governments allied with Syria, particularly Russia and Iran, which have backed the plan as the only way to stop the violence.

The inclusion of Iran in an international group proposed by Mr. Annan to discuss ways to save the peace plan — a “contact group” in the United Nations’ parlance — was rejected by the , while Russia insisted on it. That raised serious questions about whether the contact group would ever meet.

At a minimum it is supposed to include the five permanent members of the Security Council, plus important neighboring states. “Everybody realizes this meeting has to take place,” Mr. Fawzi said. “They need to come up with a draft action plan.”

That plan is supposed to include a cease-fire and a political transition, presumably with Mr. Assad leaving the country.

But Russia and Iran have continued to back Mr. Assad and have refused to endorse plans for his exit. The United States, along with and other Arab states, has embraced the rebels. The inability of the United Nations to bridge the gap only increases the likelihood that the Syrian conflict will become a regional proxy fight.

“There is just a political hurricane gathering in the Eastern Mediterranean,” said Andrew J. Tabler, a Syria scholar at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. “Both sides agree that it is a hurricane, but they don’t agree on its nature.

“And in any case,” he continued, “I am not sure how you could contain this. Even if you started now, it would take a long time to get something in place that would tamp this down.”

Inside Syria, opposition activists called the observer mission a sham that had only served to deflect attention from the failure of the world powers to stop Mr. Assad’s forces from killing civilians.

“Their presence is just like their absence,” Mohammed el-Muetassem bi’Allah, 18, an activist from Homs, said of the observers. “They are incapable of stopping the violence. They were there and the shelling was intensifying on Homs and Khaldiya.”
529 2012-06-17 TOKYO — Brushing aside widespread public opposition to avoid feared electric power shortages, Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda ordered the reactivation of two nuclear reactors at a plant in western Japan on Saturday, making it the nation’s first plant to go back online since the crisis last year in Fukushima.

The decision to restart the Ohi nuclear plant ends the temporary freeze of Japan’s nuclear power industry, when all 50 of the country’s functional reactors were idled after the triple meltdown at the Fukushima Daiichi plant. Despite the prime minister’s vows to strengthen the Ohi plant against the same sort of huge earthquake and tsunami that knocked out the Fukushima plant in March 2011, the Japanese people have remained deeply divided on the safety of nuclear power.

Even after the prime minister made a rare appeal on June 8 on national television, opinion polls showed that more Japanese opposed restarting the Ohi plant than supported it. Mr. Noda urged the nation to return to nuclear power to avoid electricity shortages that could cause blackouts and cripple industry at a time of rising competition with China and the rest of Asia. Instead, he has supported a slow phasing out of nuclear plants over several decades, as energy alternatives are found.

Saturday’s decision was seen here as a victory for the still-powerful nuclear industry and its backers in the business world, whose political support has been crucial to the otherwise unpopular Mr. Noda. It remains to be seen how the broader public will react to the restart order. Many Japanese already believe that Mr. Noda has rushed to proclaim the Ohi plant safe despite the fact that a new earthquake-resistant control center and other safety measures at the plant are years from completion.

According to polls, two-thirds of Japanese express deep concern about the safety of nuclear plants after last year’s accident, which contaminated food with radiation and shattered the myth of Japan’s infallible nuclear technology. The day before Mr. Noda gave the order, his government was visited by an antinuclear group led by the Nobel laureate Kenzaburo Oe, which presented what it said were the signatures of 7.5 million people calling for the abolition of nuclear power.
530 2012-06-17 “THE Future of the Past” seems an appropriate title for a panel discussion moderated by Barbaralee Diamonstein-Spielvogel, who is passionate about the concept of preservation as more forward-thinking than a mere clinging to days gone by.

“I am very committed to preserving the past without jeopardizing a vibrant future,” Dr. Diamonstein-Spielvogel, chairwoman of the private, nonprofit Historic Landmarks Preservation Center (and a commissioner of New York City’s Landmarks Preservation Commission from 1972 to 1987), said in a recent telephone interview. “I don’t think any generation has the right to make any place, any village, any city, a monotonous monument to a single moment.”

The discussion, which will feature the architects Richard Meier, Annabelle Selldorf and Rafael Viñoly, is part of the opening-night festivities on June 23 for an exhibition at the Parrish Art Museum, in Southampton, based on Dr. Diamonstein-Spielvogel’s 2005 book “The Landmarks of New York: An Illustrated Record of the City’s Historic Buildings.” (Wine and hors d’oeuvres will follow the talk, which is at 6 p.m. Reservations are required; the event is free for museum members and $15 for nonmembers.) The fifth edition of the book came out last fall, and the exhibition it inspired, which features 90 photographs of some of its more than 1,200 New York landmarks, has been touring museums and galleries across the state since September.

While museumgoers will be able to take in the exhibition, “The Landmarks of New York,” during regular hours from June 24 through Sept. 4, there are several other discussions planned. “I thought it would be helpful to keep on animating the exhibit,” Dr. Diamonstein-Spielvogel said.

Among the participants in those talks are Gillian Tett, managing editor of The Financial Times’s United States edition, on July 5; the architect Robert A. M. Stern, dean of the Yale School of Architecture, on Aug. 9; and the architect David Rockwell (who is also a set designer, and a producer and designer of the coming Broadway musical “Houdini,” to star Hugh Jackman) on Aug. 23. All begin at 6:30 p.m.

One discussion, to be held July 26 ($5 for members; $10 for nonmembers) will focus on a landmark that epitomizes Dr. Diamonstein-Spielvogel’s views on the melding of past and future: the High Line. Joshua David and Robert Hammond, co-founders of Friends of the High Line, will talk about the elevated park, which was built on an unused freight rail line. The repurposing of this structure, which was facing demolition in 1999 when Friends of the High Line was formed, created a popular public space that Dr. Diamonstein-Spielvogel called “one of the miracles of our modern city.”
531 2012-06-17 Cesco’s veal meatballs, delicately flavored, super-marble size, were bathed in a freshly stewed tomato sauce. Just as refreshing was a Caprese salad — slices of ethereally gentle buffalo mozzarella, wearing loops of balsamic vinegar, coupled with cherry tomatoes. This dish will be even tastier when ripe heirloom tomatoes are in season.

Fried calamari is about par for its usual course, with a generous portion of lightly breaded and crunchy deep-fried rings and legs. But using a paper funnel inserted into a tall metal stand (as frites are often served in the French or Belgian manner), did not quite work. The stand was too high, forcing the diner to stretch up awkwardly to spear each bite.

For entrees, Cesco’s offers a number of meat, poultry and seafood dishes, but the nine pastas proved just as tempting. Five are available in half portions (at about half the price). This smaller helping, with a starter and dessert, made an ideally sized meal.

Trofi con pesto alla Genovese, a hand rolled flour-and-water pasta, was perfectly cooked al dente and served in a small plate portion in a savory pesto and Pecorino Romano cheese sauce. Like all the pastas I tried, it was under-salted — but not to worry: a waiter appeared with a little tray bearing four different salts: volcanic black and brown salts from Hawaii, pink coral salt from the Himalayas and white sea salt from Italy. Thus we were free to sample pinches of all or choose one to sprinkle over our pasta.

Spaghetti alle vongole, similarly al dente, was blessed with the most succulent, flavorful clams I have had in years. Spaghetti alla carbonara was somewhat muted, though helped by pancetta and a sharp Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese.

A heavenly black truffle beurre blanc sauce would have made almost any dish delicious. It certainly helped the house-made potato gnocchi a lot — but not quite enough to make the somewhat leaden dumplings fully satisfying.

As flavorful as most of the pasta dishes are, they aren’t Cesco’s only success stories. Veal osso buco, so tender I didn’t need a knife to cut it, was a vigorous companion to a serving of risotto Milanese style.

Branzino (sea bass), pan-seared and adorned with a succulent lobster reduction sauce, was totally seductive. The fish was so tasty that it didn’t need the shredded brussels sprouts and nubbins of tough gnocchi that accompanied it.

Cesco’s desserts are all house-made, and several are notable: a light, flavorful Italian ricotta cheesecake in a blueberry sauce; bread pudding in caramel sauce with a scoop of vanilla gelato; and a rich tiramisù.

All in all, a meal at Cesco’s is like recapturing a memory of Italy, at a very reasonable price.

THE SPACE A softly lit dining room that seats 48. Ladder-back chairs with rush seats, a wall of banquettes, antique mirrors and white tablecloths. In warm weather there are a few tables for dining in front of the restaurant. Wheelchair access.

THE CROWD Diverse crowd of all ages in casual attire. Waitstaff is well-trained and upbeat.

THE BAR A full bar with a few high stools and tables, located beyond a glass separator from the dining room. A medium-size wine list, with bottles, predominantly regional Italian and California, from $26, with many in the $30s and $40s; 20 wines in 9-ounce carafes, $12 to $18 per carafe; small beer list with several craft brews.

THE BILL Lunch: entrees, $12 to $25. Dinner: appetizers, $8 to $17; entrees, $14 to $38; pastas, $11 (half portions) to $30; desserts, $7 and $8. All major credit cards accepted.

WHAT WE LIKED Escarole and bean soup, insalate Caprese, Cesco’s veal meatballs; spaghetti alle vongole, trofi con pesto alla Genovese, pan-seared branzino, veal osso buco with risotto Milanese style; bread pudding in caramel sauce, tiramisu, Italian ricotta cheesecake.

IF YOU GO Lunch: Tuesday through Friday, 11:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. Dinner: Tuesday through Thursday, 5 to 10 p.m.; Friday and Saturday, 5 to 11 p.m.; Sunday 4 to 9 p.m. Closed Monday. Large free parking lot. Reservations recommended, especially on weekend nights.
532 2012-06-17 “We constantly have to turn women away,” said Sylvie Blaustein, the founder of Midwifery of Manhattan, a practice on West 58th Street that has its share of well-heeled clients. Opened in 2003, the practice now has six midwives on staff. “Because of the quality of care, we can only deliver about 20 babies a month.”

Like obstetricians, midwives are medically trained and licensed to deliver babies. The main practical difference is that only obstetricians can perform surgeries, including Caesarean sections, and oversee high-risk pregnancies. On the other hand, midwives tend to approach childbirth holistically, and more of them provide emotional as well as physical care. This can involve staying by a laboring mother’s side for 12 or more hours and making house calls.

Nevertheless, misconceptions remain. “There will always be people who have no idea what we do — they think we’re witches who perform séances and burn candles,” said Barbara Sellars, who runs CBS Midwifery, a small practice in Manhattan’s financial district. “Sure, some women want a hippie-dippy spiritual birth and I can’t guarantee that. I can guarantee the quality of care.”

Ms. Sellars is considered one of the more respected midwives in New York, and her patients have included opera singers, actresses, bankers and models like Ms. Turlington. (Disclosure: of the more than 1,850 babies that Ms. Sellars has delivered, my daughter was No. 1,727 and my son was No. 1,798.)

It was that high degree of care that led Kate Young, a stylist in New York, to seek out CBS Midwifery when she became pregnant with her son, Stellan, in 2008.

“My friends who had the best birth experiences all went to midwives,” said Ms. Young, whose clients have included Natalie Portman and Rachel Weisz. “When you go to a doctor, you’re left alone a lot. You don’t have someone sitting there, looking you in the eye, getting you through it. When I thought about what I wanted for my child and how I wanted to have my child, every sign pointed to going to a midwife.”

The rising popularity of midwifery among cosmopolitan women also coincides with larger cultural shifts toward all things natural, whether it’s organic foods, raw diets or homeopathic remedies.

“Pregnancy is not a disease, it’s a condition,” said Dr. Moritz, whose own children were delivered by midwives. “We need fewer OB’s and more midwives.”

For other women, midwives offer a sense of control. “This is a time when women are asking more questions, getting healthy, wanting to be more empowered,” said Ms. Kurkova, the 28-year-old model, who gave birth to her son, Tobin, in 2009. “I didn’t want a hospital to take away my power. I didn’t want to risk someone cutting me open and taking the baby out that way.”

While midwife deliveries typically take place in the hospital, Ms. Kurkova is among those who have given birth at home.

“A home birth is more relaxed,” said Miriam Schwarzschild, a home midwife for 25 years who lives in Brooklyn. “I wash my hands, listen to the baby’s heartbeat, take the mother’s vital signs and that’s it. There are no routines. You step outside the bureaucracy at home.”

A big selling point for midwives — both at home and in the hospital — is that, barring medical complications, the baby is not separated from the mother after the birth.

Another at-home advocate is Ms. Bündchen, who gave birth in 2010 to her son, Benjamin, in her Boston penthouse.

“We say Gisele delivered her own baby but I was in attendance,” said Deborah Allen, a midwife in Cambridge, Mass., who, along with Mayra Calvette, a Brazilian midwife, was present at the birth. “Obviously, privacy is of the utmost importance. You are completely exposed. You need to be in a place where you feel comfortable to do that. Gisele was extremely prepared.”

But not everyone is ready to go that route.

When Esther Haynes, deputy editor at Lucky Magazine, decided to go to a midwife, she quickly rejected an at-home birth. “This is New York, and if there was an emergency, I didn’t want my story being, ‘I called 911 and the ambulance took 45 minutes because of traffic!’ ” Ms. Haynes said.

“Also my apartment is kind of cluttered,” she added. “I hated the thought of going into labor thinking, I wish I’d thrown out more magazines.”
533 2012-06-17 An upscale version of Radisson stakes its claim in the United States, with rooms starting at $200.

The name Radisson, part of the Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group, calls to mind decent but not spectacular accommodations around the country, but the company’s Blu brand means luxury. There are more than 200 Radisson Blu hotels worldwide, and this Chicago outpost, which opened in November, is the first in the United States. The 334-room hotel occupies the bottom 18 floors of the Aqua Tower apartment building, designed by the Chicago architect Jeanne Gang. Strength and airiness somehow converge in this 81-story Lakeshore East structure whose curving balconies give it the appearance of rippling in the wind.

A short walk from the Magnificent Mile, Millennium Park and other popular destinations, the hotel is in a prime spot — where the Chicago River meets Lake Michigan. My room, No. 725, had big windows facing the lake, where the Ferris wheel on Navy Pier beckoned.

My partner and I lucked out, getting a corner room with a large wraparound balcony. The entryway to the room was cramped — I almost whacked my head on the closet, which jutted out from the hallway wall a few feet inside the door — but once I got past it there was plenty to like. A small desk area was to the right of the entrance and a hallway led to the bathroom and main room on the left, making it feel like a mini-suite. The light-colored hardwood floors contrasted nicely with deep blue curtains and crisp white sheets. Small tables on each side of the bed allowed enough space for laptops importing free Wi-Fi. The generous balcony looked nice, but there was no outdoor furniture, and thanks to typical conditions in the Windy City, it was more an aesthetic feature than a practical one.

A deep soaking tub and separate stand-alone shower easily fit in the spacious bathroom, stocked with Anne Semonin toiletries. Sea-green walls in the tub area engendered a meditative mood.

In an effort to be eco-friendly, the hotel skipped the big binder of hotel information and in-room menus, instead listing all that information on a television channel. We ordered a continental breakfast ($19) and a “traditional” ($16.50), which included scrambled eggs, bacon and hash brown potatoes. We were told the food would arrive within 45 minutes but about 20 minutes later we were already eating. The continental — a huge spread of bread, pastries, fruit, yogurt, granola, cheese, cold cuts, coffee and juice — was delicious, and would have been enough for two.
534 2012-06-17 In particular, I was hoping to visit the buildings of the architect Bohuslav Fuchs, who had built many of the city’s most charismatic buildings, like the skinny Avion, a nine-story modernist hotel downtown, elegantly wedged into a lot less than 28 feet wide. The city’s main post office — a sprawling, inscrutable block — was by Fuchs, as were many bank buildings, shopping arcades and several elegant villas.

“The interesting thing with Bohuslav Fuchs was that he was also the chief of the city planning office,” Mr. Okamura said. “He was very productive, so his buildings are all over Brno.”

Armed with the small map Mr. Okamura had marked up, I spent a few days running around Brno, searching for functionalist sights.

I soon encountered an unexpected danger: an overdose of caffeine, to say nothing of calories. Central European coffeehouse culture seems to have peaked in the interwar era, and many of Brno’s most attractive functionalist buildings turned out to be cafes. I’d met Mr. Okamura in Avia Cafe, located in the cellar of a monolithic Hussite church built by Jan Visek in 1929, and I stopped for breath in Bohuslav Fuchs’s own landmark Zemanova Kavarna, a white cubic coffeehouse from 1925.

But the most interesting — in both architectural and culinary terms — ended up being Josef Kranz’s charming Cafe Era of 1927-29. I found it on a residential street not far from the noisy renovations going on at Villa Tugendhat.

Inside, blood-red floors and walls of deep azure filled up the narrow space. A staircase swerved drunkenly downstairs, creating a sense of liquidity and motion. Outside, a beautiful wooden deck covered the backyard under sprawling chestnut trees.

After a whirl through the cozy upstairs lounge and elegant street-level barroom, I took a seat on the deck and tried to take in the setting and the scene. Nearby, a group of women, ranging from girlish to middle-age, were celebrating a young woman’s high school graduation. A group of designers talked about a gallery opening. A lone slacker surfed the Internet on his phone. Above us, the flat back wall of the building gave way to a hidden balcony.

The views were beautiful, but my attention was soon seized by another renovated Old World classic: calf’s liver over a pile of grilled onions and apples with a side of baked ciabatta. Plain, simple and hearty, it was one of the best Czech meals I’d had outside of Prague, and it paired perfectly with a 2010 cabernet Moravia from the local winemaker Vinarstvi Vajbar Rakvice.

The next day, I went out to find the functionalist tram stop. Originally built by Oskar Poriska in 1926, it appeared rather run-down, its public restrooms long since gated shut, some of its plaster crumbling, and a touch of graffiti blemishing one wall. Still, the overall shape felt airy and modern, shielding waiting passengers from the elements with a smoothly arched overhang. Along the sides, metal tubing was employed as support, somehow evoking the construction of an ocean liner — a strange motif for a public building in landlocked Central Europe.

But after I boarded the No. 4 tram — or salina, in Hantec, the local slang — and rode it to the last station, I saw that nautical themes were actually common elements in many functionalist buildings. Walking around the villa district to the northwest of the city center, near the tram’s terminus, I saw front doors with circular windows, like portholes. Several balconies had tube railings, like the railings on ships. One had a soaring, half-circular external wall, looking strangely like a sail in a full wind. And although most functionalist buildings emphasized flat, cube-like constructions with little decoration, a few used similar curves in ornamental roles, like Bohuslav Fuchs’s own family home, which had an outwardly curving wall on one side of a small, loggia-like recessed balcony.

Much like the synagogue, the buildings struck me as almost inappropriately stylish — and strangely ahead of their time. Several in the neighborhood had been given new paint and windows, which made them look like Scandinavian constructions, or imports from some more-beautiful future.

After having nearly exhausted my list, I noticed one dot still on my map. I couldn’t quite read Mr. Okamura’s handwriting, so I set out again to discover what he had wanted to point out.

I followed the sidewalk in the other direction, my neck craned to look for something interesting. Eventually, I found it: behind a fence, a bright orange building held up a gray box that cantilevered boldly out over the sidewalk, stretching far into the air without any visible support.

Because of the fence, I couldn’t get much closer, and I couldn’t see what kind of building I was meant to spot. But another minute up the sidewalk, I was able to enter a botanical garden and try again from the other side. Passing elderly women sitting on a bench, walking among plants labeled Eryngium campestre and Carex michelii, I eventually got close enough to take another look.

It had no identifying signs, but it looked as if it might be a university library or study room, perhaps for the natural sciences. But standing in the botanical garden, I realized that this wasn’t a functionalist building at all: it was a far newer construction that must have arrived only within the last year or so. And though it was modern, the flat, ornament-free facade and the use of tubing seemed to speak to the traditions of functionalism.

Opening my notebook to write down what I’d found, I saw a quote from my meeting with Mr. Okamura, which seemed perfect for the occasion.

“Functionalism is everywhere you look, it’s in the roots, it’s in the history of Brno,” he had said. “But I think there’s even more interesting architecture coming in the future, and today.”

IF YOU GO

Brno, a city of 400,000, is about 2 hours and 20 minutes on a high-speed train from Prague.

There’s very little English-language material on Brno’s functionalist architecture. The best resource is a 70-building list, complete with addresses, architects and years of construction, on the Czech Wikipedia.

Brno’s prettiest hotel is the Barcelo Brno Palace, a Secession-era building gracefully turned into a modern-design hotel of 119 rooms and suites, in the city center. Double rooms with breakfast start at 115 euros, or about $142 at $1.23 to the euro. (Silingrovo namesti 2; 420-532-156-777; barcelobrnopalace.com)

A true functionalist building, Hotel Slovan was designed by Bohuslav Fuchs in 1928. Touches of the original atmosphere remain, despite a recent reconstruction that often brings to mind the 1980s. At least the prices, starting at 1,890 koruna, or about $96 at 20 koruna to the dollar, for a double, are affordable. (Lidicka 23, 420-533-422-111; hotelslovan.cz)

Not to be missed, Cafe Era fuses de Stijl-inspired color schemes with the barefaced architecture of 1927, and presents modern versions of Central European classics. Main courses range from 175 to 195 koruna. (Zemedelska 30; 420-734-793-029; eracafe.cz)

Located in a church basement next to the city’s best billiards hall, Avia Cafe feels like 1929, though the food — fresh pasta and great wines — is completely up-to-date. Main courses from 100 to 150 koruna.   (Botanicka 1, 420-739-822-215; aviacafe.cz)
535 2012-06-17 If ’s uniqueness lies in its having long been a socialist paradise with a thrumming amount of business ingenuity — hello, and Electrolux and Saab and and H&M and and Hasselblad — then perhaps it’s not a huge surprise that this is a country where a certain percentage of the population likes to sit in cafes, lavishing their blog posts and restaurant recommendations with the kind of attention befitting a sickly dachshund. The average Swede drinks 4.5 cups of a day. Cue frantic blogging.

Back in New York, I’d fallen down the rabbit hole of Stockholm blogs. I’d gravitated mostly to two jaunty ones that feature — as is increasingly seen in other city-based blogs, too — insider tips given by locals. The first of these was Nectar & ( ), a company that allows you, at 6 euros (about $7.35) a pop, to buy local hipsters’ insider tips to one of eight European cities and New York. Each of the locals — or Soulmates, as the site calls them — is identified by name and a title like “Shopaholic/Glamourgirl/Partyqueen” or “Breadbaker/Writer/Birdwatcher.” Each Soulmate — most of whom are in their 20s and have a kind of boho gorgeousness that screams “pool party at Alexander Skarsgard’s” — has filled out profile questions in which they describe favorite films, magazines, times of day and so on; seldom has one encountered more enthusiasm for Elle magazine and the films of .

Before going to Stockholm for 12 days in April with my boyfriend, Greg, I bought tips from two Soulmates — the one who seemed the most like me (Collector/Photographer/Listener Kristofer Hedlund) and the one — or ones — who are the most like someone I secretly want to be (Bohemians/Pop-Princesses/Businesswomen Johanna and Nina Piroth).

I was mailed two handsomely produced, color-photograph-bedecked guides, each 5 by 14 inches and each bearing about 30 recommendations for museums, restaurants, stores and bars. Both brochures contained a sort of prose poem in which the Soulmates described a perfect day in Stockholm. After a day of looking at and eating and clubgoing, the mustachioed and soul-patched Mr. Hedlund plunges (presumably naked) into the bay at sunrise. The pale, waifish Piroth sisters, meanwhile, do a lot of brunching and picnicking whereupon “the dancemood takes over” and they engage in “ugly, early-morning dancing” until dawn.

I’d love to tell you that, on any given day during our trip, the previous day’s celebration of nakedness and dancemood prohibited us from getting out of our accommodations much before 8 p.m., but I recently turned 50. No, we hit 13 of Mr. Hedlund’s picks and 6 of the Piroth sisters’. Mr. Hedlund steered us toward the wonderful Fotografiska, the photography museum opened in 2010 inside a huge customs house on the water. We marveled here at Marcus Bleasdale’s pictures of and Andre Kertesz’s pictures of , as well as at conference rooms named and “Cindy and Sally.”

We also enjoyed our Hedlund-inspired visits to the lunch spot Martins Grona and to the well-curated Papercutshop, which sells books, magazines and DVDs. At the cavernous art gallery Magasin 3 down near the harbor, we went to an exhibition. We learned that in 2007 Mr. Ai had made a sculpture of 1,001 wooden doors from destroyed homes but that a wind storm in had knocked the sculpture down. “It’s better than before,” he said of the artwork at the time. “Now the price is doubled.”

Like Mr. Hedlund’s picks, many of the places suggested by the Piroth sisters were on the island of Sodermalm, the formerly working-class enclave now host to Stockholm’s bohemia. But if the seeming theme of Mr. Hedlund’s Stockholm is “Places Where You Could Hand-Roll a Cigarette Without Anyone Looking Askance,” the Piroth sisters’ is more “Places to Have a Stylish Nervous Breakdown.” At the vintage clothing store Lisa Larsson, hillocks of secondhand garments heaped on the floor suggested that Miss Larsson’s closet has been struck by an asteroid; at the wonderful Rosendals Tradgard, in a park, you buy your baked goods or lunch inside one of the center’s hot, pressure cooker-like greenhouses and then collapse at a picnic table or on the grass.

A traveler could never rely solely on the Soulmates — when you are this beautiful, apparently, you do not traffic in practicalities like opening hours, phone numbers or prices; and you do not recommend hotels, because you are probably sleeping on the beach, a thin reindeer hide wrapped around you tightly, like a won ton. However, as a kind of gauzy inspiration, these guides provide aspirational guideposts and conversational fodder.

I loved — purely on the basis of his having listed as one of his heroes — looking for signs of poserdom in one of Mr. Hedlund’s choices of places to drink Fernet-Branca (the yuppie-ish but centrally located Kaken). I loved — when we took a Piroth sisters-inspired day trip to revel in the stark beauty of the island of Sandhamn — coming to the realization that my personal equivalent of “the dancemood” is the joy I feel when I play along with at home. And I loved — even though many of their picks could be found in guidebooks — knowing I was hanging with the cool kids. But I did not love being turned away from the restaurant P.A. & Co. three times because my Soulmate Mr. Hedlund didn’t tell me I needed a reservation. Dude!

Less romantic but even more helpful than the Nectar & Pulse guides was the Spotted by Locals blog. Here, a group of youngish locals write short blog posts about their city. (There are 41 cities covered, all in .) No perfect days here, and I don’t know how any of these people feel about Wong Kar-wai or Fernet-Branca. But there is a good amount of information that you don’t find in guidebooks, almost all of it graced with information like prices and opening hours. We followed 15 of its suggestions, the greatest concentration coming from Natalia Urbanska, a contributor and culture maven who encouraged us to visit Stockholm’s premier venue for modern dance, Dansens Hus. We saw a piece in which an ominous, air-inflated 25-foot cube of parachute silk — imagine an inexorable marshmallow — ingested and then disgorged dancers. Dancemood: regurgitant.

But Spotted by Local’s best virtue is its practicality. Aaron Larsson, another contributor, directed us to Aplace Below, the Vasastan outlet of the clothing boutique Aplace, where last season’s clothes, some by young Swedish designers, are reduced by 30 to 50 percent; we bought a dove gray raincoat and a quilted, shabby-chic suit jacket. We agreed with Anna Ostman that the second bar, not the first, at the popular brasserie Sturehof is the one to go to, and saved about $12 when, per her suggestion, we ate at Sonja’s Greek on a Sunday night, when all entrees are reduced to 100 kronor (about $14 at 7 kronor to the dollar).

Mr. Larsson wrote that Judit & Bertil — a cozy Sodermalm bar that was the site of a political scandal a few years ago when Sweden’s secretary of state was photographed kissing a journalist while on duty — is unblemished by tourists and that it has a “ ‘dinner-at-your-alcoholic-friend’s-place’ kind of feeling.” I wholly concur, though, in my case, I was the alcoholic friend. Two aquavits under my belt, I fell, in plain view of Greg, deeply in love with the sly, stubbly 20-something bartender, a sort of Swedish . Pointing at the cocktail menu, I blurted at Jude, “What is smultron? It sounds like a pornographic robot.” Jude, all smiles and indulgence, said, “It is not that. It is a wild strawberry.” Fifteen minutes later, I offered, “I see that your men’s room downstairs has no door. Discuss.” Jude: “There was a door on the old bathroom, but this is how the new one is. There is a second bathroom on this floor, with a door. It’s not for me to make judgments about which you choose.”

During our stay, details like the doorless bathroom — anything that bespoke chaos or randomness or decay — seemed particularly vivid to me. So sunny and practical are the natives, so clean and efficient are the city and its subway, the Tunnelbana, that I longed at times for any vestige of grit or darkness. New parents get 480 days of parental leave?! Everyone I talk to seems to have a summer house on an island?! When I told the bartender at Snotty — a bar for rock ’n’ roll snobs in Sodermalm — that I could detect no condescension or attitude from him or his patrons, he proceeded to thank me!

Sure, I could point to the occasional sign of tumult — Sweden’s Social Democrats, for the first time in more than a decade, were deposed in 2006 and replaced by a center-right coalition under Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt; we all know about Sweden’s high suicide rate and the oppressive snowfall and the heavy drinking and the ever burgeoning school of blood-soaked fiction. And yes, I had envisioned having a mental collapse at Lisa Larsson and Rosendals Tradgard. But, overall, to a visitor like me, Stockholm’s bright sun is fairly blinding. It can all seem a little too perfect.

I soldiered on. I had now canvassed the city through the eyes of seven strangers — a fact that had allowed me to find by Day 1 or 2 of our trip the kind of untouristed places that I sometimes only find by Day 4 or 5. (I was glad, though, that I carried a guidebook — I needed the maps; and when we stumbled onto a church, it was helpful to know when it was built.) But it was time to bump up my game: I needed to actually meet a blogger. An American friend, having heard what I was after, put me in touch with Emi Guner, a 40-year-old mother of three who has lived in or near Stockholm most of her life, and who writes a personal, nontourist-directed blog called Letters From the End Consumer. Emi asked Greg and me to meet her at the Nytorget Urban Deli, a lively Sodermalm cafe at the back of a grocery whose offerings include miniature pineapples and saffron biscotti.

The wonderfully witty Emi — ”Pickled herring,” she allowed at one point, “is the Gatorade of the North” — was busily pecking away at the keyboard of her silver MacBook Air when we arrived. Never before have I met someone who can so gracefully punctuate her conversation with helpful Web searches. You like sweets? Here is the site of a great new caramel shop, Parlans, where the workers all dress in swing-era garb. You’re going to the medieval district? You’ll definitely want to look at the windows of the lovely boutique Very Important Clothes. You miss your cat back in New York? Let’s watch this clip of talking about chickens. When I pressed Emi for the name of the amazing cakelike brown bread that restaurants kept serving us, I was startled to see her convey the words “danskt ragbrod” by pencil rather than IM.

I asked Emi if she had a theory as to why Stockholm has so many bloggers, and she said: “It might be partly our inferiority complex. We’re feeling kind of alone, all the way up here in the north. We want to reach out and tell people that we’re alive. We want to show people that we’re on top of everything.”

This naturally led to a discussion of hipster-riddled Sodermalm, whose cafes I had recently described to a friend as “laptoppy.” Emi reported: “The Stockholm hipsters have gotten very nerdy about bread. And coffee is reaching levels.” On the bread front: “Sourdough has gotten huge, especially for stay-at-home dads. The bakery of this deli that we’re in has a ‘sourdough hotel’ where you can leave your starter when you go on vacation.” (Sourdough starter needs to be “fed” to keep the yeast active. The “hotel” is a shelving unit that holds some 30 jars of customers’ dried or live starter; the top shelf is labeled ) Emi said, “When I first heard about it, I thought it was a hipster joke.”

Given her excellent taste in all things Stockholm, it seemed only appropriate to ask Emi what her perfect day in Stockholm would be. She said she’d start with breakfast at the Hotel Skeppsholmen; then go to either of the nearby museums of modern art or ; then sit outside and eat lunch in the Humlegarden; then go for a swim at the outdoor pool at the Eriksbadet sports center.

It was only the next day — when I’d peeled off from Greg and perched myself on the Hotel Skeppsholmen’s patio — that I realized that Emi’s perfect day ended in the late afternoon. What of her evening? I struggled with this omission before finally realizing that it seemed just about right. You can plan a perfect day, and can put a perfect day in motion, but in the end, the best days are usually the ones that allow for the random. You put the building blocks in place, but then the wind moves them.

Hotel Skeppsholmen. On Skeppsholmen, the island that houses museums of modern art and architecture, this 81-room hotel is in a naval barracks dating from 1699. Hushed Swedish minimalism is the keynote. Note the bathroom sinks — the water falls on pearl-white stone that looks like a blob of very relaxed pizza dough. Grona gangen 1; (46-8) 407-23-50; hotelskeppsholmen.com. A double room is 1,795 to 2,995 kronor, about $255 to $425 at 7 kronor to the dollar.

First Hotel Reisen. Formerly a 17th-century coffee house, the Reisen is on the water in Gamla Stan, the Old Town, and each of its rooms has a water view. The rooms are smallish; the breakfast, expansive. Skeppsbron 12; (46-8) 22-32-60; firsthotels.com. Doubles, 1,364 to 2,250 kronor.

Djuret. A nose-to-tail restaurant, Djuret celebrates one kind of meat at a time — when we went, it was veal — serving only that meat in all its varieties. Prepare to see meat hooks on the walls and illustrations of beef cuts on the tablecloths, and be forewarned that even the side dishes may be absent of vegetables. Lilla Nygatan 5; (46-8) 506-400-84; djuret.se. Entrees 250 to 450 kronor. Reservations recommended.

Rosendals Tradgard. About a 15 minute walk onto the park-covered island of Djurgarden will take you to this oasis of organic and artisanal soups, sandwiches and baked goods. The adjoining garden center sells plants; an adjoining gift shop sells bread and jams. Rosendalsterrassen 12; (46-8) 545-812-70; rosendalstradgard.se Open from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. on weekdays and to 6 p.m. on weekends. Closed mid-November to mid-February.

19 Glas. This tiny and somewhat cramped place in the Old Town has a good and wonderfully priced (129 kronor) two-course lunch featuring lots of locally produced ingredients. There’s also a five-course set menu dinner for 499 kronor. Stora Nygatan 19; (46-8) 723-19-19; 19glas.com.

Nobis Hotel. If you’re in the market for an elegant hotel lobby drink, skip this design hotel’s much-lauded and fashionista-clogged Gold Bar and head for the inner courtyard with comfy chairs and soaring atrium. According to the front desk, it takes seven men a whole day to change the overhead light fixture’s light bulbs. Normalmstorg 2-4; (46-8) 614-10-00; nobishotel.se.

Le Bar Rouge. A red-velvet-bedecked bit of elegant fantaisie, this bar on a quiet street in the Old Town attracts its share of colorful characters. A popular Moulin Rouge-themed restaurant is also on the premises; reservations recommended. Brunnsgrand 2-4; (46-8) 505-244-60; lerouge.se.

Aplace Below. Though there are several branches of Aplace — a boutique specializing in international designers, many of them Swedish — throughout the city, this very small basement branch in Vasastan sells last season’s clothes for men and women at reduced prices. Eriksgatan 79; (46-8) 32-51-10; aplace.com.

Parlans. This new swing-era-themed Sodermalm confectionery sells different flavored caramels wrapped in wax paper (about 7 kronor each). You can sit in the store and order tea as well. Nytorgsgatan 38; (46-8) 660-70-10; parlanskonfektyr.se.
536 2012-06-17 What Craig Venter is doing isn’t all that radical. Humans have been meddling with plants and animals since the dawn of time. Just look at dogs, cows, pigs, wheat, corn, apples — none of these things would exist in their current form without a domesticating human hand.

Humans have a pretty poor record when it comes to tinkering with nature. Furthermore, those responsible for introducing alien life seldom live long enough to see the true downside of their labors, the negative effects that they never took the time to imagine in their rush to wealth and fame.

The consequences of Venter’s synthetic approach to life would be immense for a number of reasons (as outlined in the article), but one omitted is crucial to the debate on the existence of God. For many decades now, proponents of religion, creation and God have dismissed the chemical basis of cell evolution by simply criticizing our inability to create a cell from scratch. If Venter is successful in creating such a cell via synthetic biology, it will offer factual data to counter evolution’s critics and add another major nail to the coffin of divine creation.

Venter’s thinking too small. What I really would like to see is a bug that eats unsightly cellulite and poops U.S. currency.

Why should we consider micro-organisms “machines” and not conclude that human organisms are also machines? Why not enforce changes in human behavior instead of manufacturing micro-organisms that sound convenient (to us, now)?
537 2012-06-17 Canyon Ranch, the upscale spa that usually caters to adults, is dedicating two weeks this summer to a weight-loss program for parents and teenagers 14 to 17 years old. The seven-night program, held at the Tucson spa on July 8 and again starting Au...
538 2012-06-17 To the Sports Editor:     Re ''Rodriguez Ties Gehrig for No. 1 in Grand Slams,'' June 13: Alex Rodriguez used steroids for part of his career, and it took a fatal disease to stop Lou Gehrig, who was almost Rodriguez's age (36) when he retired from...
539 2012-06-17 The innovative French pastry chef Pierre Hermé, one of the world's most famous pâtissiers, has enjoyed a long love affair with Japan. In 1998, he introduced the first outpost of his Pierre Hermé Paris pastry boutique in Tokyo, three years befor...
540 2012-06-18 The Essex County executive, Joseph N. DiVincenzo Jr., a Democrat, praises Community Education Centers at the opening of Delaney Hall.
541 2012-06-18 The tablet Microsoft showed off on Monday was a consumer product. There is another version, designed for professional use. A comparison of this machine, along with the iPad and a couple of lightweight laptops, show Microsoft is heading into its al...
542 2012-06-18 Surface is not just an iPad competitor. It's an ultrabook competitor. Microsoft seems to be going after a broader market than Apple does with its iPad. Microsoft is aiming at people who do work on laptops but want something even lighter....
543 2012-06-18 The Nuclear Regulatory Commission tries to bring some continuity to the way it evaluates risks, from a reactor in a densely populated area to one in a remote desert....
544 2012-06-18 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. Monday's selection includes a man who makes 3-D replicas of museum pieces, more information about deep-fried art and a study that describes ...
545 2012-06-18 Jittergram is a nifty free app that lets you make and share simple stop-motion animations using an iPhone. Here is how to use it....
546 2012-06-18 For those of us who have switched to digital e-readers, the e-book shopping experience and reading on iPads and Kindles has zero nostalgia....
547 2012-06-18 Older people who report high levels of loneliness also suffer more disabilities and earlier deaths, a new report finds....
548 2012-06-18 The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is inviting consumers to share stories of financial abuse of the elderly....
549 2012-06-18 Apple’s mobile maps looks terribly light on information by contrast to Google maps although it is not the final product. Apple skinned data off the maps it showed developers. The question is, why?...
550 2012-06-18 Brett H. McGurk told President Obama he was withdrawing from consideration after a series of racy e-mails fueled Republican resistance to his confirmation in the Senate....
551 2012-06-18 Could the U.S. Shoot Down a Missile?
552 2012-06-18 Sonos, which makes home audio equipment for listening to digital music, is raising $135 million from a group of investors that includes a couple of former Apple executives....
553 2012-06-18 A large, long-term trial showed that diabetics divided into omega-3 and placebo groups showed no difference in rates of heart attack or stroke....
554 2012-06-18 Could the U.S. Shoot Down a Missile?
555 2012-06-18 It's becoming cool to say "Hook 'Em Horns" on a golf course. The University of Texas men's golf team recently won the N.C.A.A. title, and a current and future Longhorn both played well at the U.S. Open....
556 2012-06-18 On “Meet the Press,” the senator called Citizens United “arrogant, uninformed, naïve.”...
557 2012-06-18 Stephanie Fierman joined MediaCom, New York, part of the GroupM division of WPP, in a new post, chief marketing officer. She had been running her own consultancy and before that worked for companies that included Citigroup and Time Warner.

Fontainebleau Miami Beach hired AgencySacks, New York, as agency of record for advertising and branding efforts. Spending was not disclosed. The most recent previous agency was the Arnell Group, New York, which created a campaign to reintroduce the Fontainebleau hotel brand in 2008.

Chet Gulland rejoined Droga5, New York, in a new post, head of digital strategy. He had been executive creative director for strategy at the Barbarian Group, Boston, part of Cheil Worldwide, and before that was planning director at Droga5.

Havas Media, part of Havas, acquired a majority stake in Mediaxis-MPG, Zurich. Financial terms were not disclosed.

Kari Hudnell joined Gibraltar Associates, Washington, as a manager. She had been media and marketing manager at CommunicationWorks, Washington.

Kian Kaeni joined EKA Campaigns, Los Angeles, a new unit of Englander, Knabe & Allen, as vice president and managing director. He had led the winning campaign for Paul Koretz, a member of the Los Angeles City Council, and afterward served as Mr. Koretz’s senior legislative deputy.

Lakestar Media, London and Manchester, a digital marketing agency, was acquired by the McCann Worldgroup, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Financial terms were not disclosed. Lakestar will be operated and managed by McCann Manchester.

Maxifier, New York, hired three employees for new posts. They are Lylan Masterman, vice president for product; James McWilliams, director for account management; and Linda Payson, senior director for product.

McDonnell Haynes, Toronto, was renamed We Are Tonic.

Jannie McInnes joined the New York office of Believe Media as executive producer. She had been executive producer at Revolver, Toronto, and creative director for the Canadian singer-songwriter Feist.

Doug Melville joined TBWA Worldwide, New York, part of the Omnicom Group, in a new post, chief diversity officer for North America. He had been chief executive at Red Carpet Runway.

Rosemary Mercedes, director for corporate communications at Univision Communications, New York, was promoted to vice president for corporate communications.

Joe Nafziger and Gary Ware joined I.d.e.a., San Diego. Mr. Nafziger becomes a copywriter; he had been communication director at Traffic Geyser. Mr. Ware becomes director for digital experience, a new post; he had most recently been director for paid media services at Covario.

Bill Ogle joined Blue Calypso, Dallas, a digital marketing company, as chairman and chief executive. He succeeds Andrew Levi, the founder, who becomes chief technology officer. Mr. Ogle had been global chief marketing officer at Motorola Mobility, Libertyville, Ill., which was recently acquired by Google.

James Pearson joined BrightLine, New York, in a new post, director for corporate communications. He had most recently been director for corporate communications at the Wonderfactory, New York.

Natalia Schultz joined Saatchi & Saatchi, New York, part of the Publicis Groupe, in a new post, chief talent officer for the Americas, including the agency’s flagship New York office, operations in Canada and Latin America and Conill, the unit that creates advertising aimed at Hispanic consumers. Ms. Schultz had been executive vice president and chief talent officer at the Grey Group, New York, part of WPP.

SIM Digital, Los Angeles, acquired the finishing division of Master Key, Los Angeles, a postproduction company. Financial terms were not disclosed. The acquisition came after the company changed its name from Sim Video to SIM Digital.

Brian Terkelsen, president at SMG LiquidThread, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group, was named chief executive at another Starcom MediaVest unit, MediaVest USA, New York. He succeeds Bill Tucker, who becomes president for global client operations at Starcom MediaVest, which is part of the Publicis Groupe.

Twitter, San Francisco, advertised on television for the first time, running a commercial on June 10 during the coverage on the TNT cable channel of the 2012 Pocono 400 Nascar race. The spot was part of a partnership between Nascar and Twitter.

Chi Zhao joined Mobli, New York, as marketing manager, becoming the second staff member with that title after Neal Ostrov. Ms. Zhao had been account executive at the Morris & King Company, New York.
558 2012-06-18 The full schedule for England's Premier League 2012-13 season....
559 2012-06-18 Sam Mendes will direct the production, which is to open at the London Palladium next June....
560 2012-06-18 How small-business issues are shaping politics and policy.
561 2012-06-18 After the Greek election defuses one crisis, looking for the next. | Bayer's chief executive on Europe's economic outlook.
562 2012-06-18 Perella Weinberg Partners said on Monday that it had hired Ivan Seidenberg, the former chairman and chief executive of Verizon Communications, as an advisory partner....
563 2012-06-18 Last week, Apple announced that its phones would no longer come with maps from Google built in, but instead would feature Apple's own map service, part of its new mobile operating system. In Monday's New York Times, Quentin Hardy looks into whethe...
564 2012-06-18 Jonathan Sorrell, who joined the beleaguered hedge fund manager last summer after a sudden departure from Goldman Sachs, will replace Kevin Hayes, who is leaving the company to pursue other interests....
565 2012-06-18 The German exchange has asked a European court to overturn a decision by antitrust regulators that blocked its planned merger with NYSE Euronext....
566 2012-06-18 Plus: the week’s best tweets, how to get rid of your bookkeeper, how to rob a bank, and why you should give yourself a doughnut....
567 2012-06-18 Through interviews with friends and neighbors, and in details Sandusky provided in his autobiography, Dorothy Sandusky emerges as a caring, thoughtful and vigilant wife, mother and friend. A neighbor, Dana Kletchka, said that last August, after her son was born, Dorothy visited her and her husband, Paul, bringing a vegetarian casserole, knowing that the Kletchkas did not eat meat.

“We had the key to their house and they had the key to ours, and 10 years ago when we first moved in, she came over and closed our windows when we were gone and it started raining,” Kletchka said. “We literally borrowed cups of sugar from her.”

There are also hints that she failed to grasp the seriousness of her husband’s legal predicament when Sandusky was formally charged last fall.

On Nov. 9, 2011, not long after a Pennsylvania grand jury report was released that detailed Sandusky’s suspected sexual abuse, and just hours before a riot broke out after the firing of the football coach Joe Paterno, Sandusky was seen shopping at a local sporting goods store wearing Penn State attire. Many in the community were incensed, but that evening — according to a neighbor who asked not to be named and two other neighbors who corroborated the account — she seemed at a loss. “I don’t know why they’re being so mean to Jerry,” the neighbor recalled her saying.

Dorothy Gross was born in Tennessee. Early in life, she developed a love for country music and, friends say, sometimes attended concerts at Penn State. Sandusky wrote in his autobiography, “Touched: The Jerry Sandusky Story,” that he first noticed her while she was singing “a lot of Tennessee songs” in the summer of 1965. She was in Washington, Pa., his hometown, visiting friends.

She began dating Sandusky after his mother invited her to watch one of his softball games, he wrote. The next summer, when Sandusky was at a football training camp, he penned his first love letter to her. “You are my fate!” he wrote. “Amidst all this brutality and hate, I can only feel love for you.” The couple married months later, in the fall of 1966.

In 1968, the Sanduskys learned that they could not have children of their own.

“Dottie and I had many goals in our lives and one of them was clearly to start our own family,” Sandusky wrote.

The next year the Sanduskys adopted the first of their six children. They would become foster parents to several more. Having settled in State College, where Sandusky was hired as a defensive coach for the Nittany Lions, Dorothy became an impeccable homemaker, friends say. She watched over the children when her husband was on the road, prepared their meals and kept an immaculate house.

“She’s sweet as can be, she’s a wonderful person, but with her children she was strict, moral and tough, because when the kids were little, it was a wild house,” said Joyce Porter, a longtime friend who has been attending the trial each day.

Through the late 1960s and into the ’70s, Sandusky began spending more time working with underprivileged children, and he wrote that his wife would accompany him to playgrounds to keep him company. She “enjoyed playing with the kids as much as I did,” he wrote.

Though Dorothy was deeply involved with operations at the Second Mile, the children’s charity that Sandusky founded and through which prosecutors say he met his victims, she maintained a range of outside activities. Friends say she was an active member of St. Paul’s Methodist Church, hosted bible study groups and bridge parties, participated in charity teas and exercised at a local women’s gym.

When the child sexual abuse charges were leveled against her husband, Porter said, Dorothy was “astounded.” She said Dorothy’s perspective was that, “for all Jerry’s done for these kids all these years, how could a few of them turn their stories around and make him seem so bad?”

One accuser testified last week that Sandusky once halted an assault in the basement after he heard Dorothy calling to him from upstairs.

“It was actually the one night I got a decent amount of sleep,” the man said. “She never came downstairs.”

Chuck Williams, an expert on dealing with child abuse and a professor at Drexel University, speaking about the spouses of child abusers (and not the Sanduskys), said that they often sense that something is wrong but rationalize that the cost of taking action might be greater than turning a blind eye.

“Who wants to admit that you’re sleeping next to a pedophile and you married one?” Williams said. “It’s just too much for a lot of people.”

Dorothy’s neighbors said that when the scandal broke, they believed that she was blindsided by the allegations. Now they are not so sure.

Early in the morning of Nov. 11, 2011, someone threw cinder blocks through a storm window at the Sandusky house. Paul Kletchka said he spoke to the Sanduskys as they surveyed the damage with their St. Bernard, Bo.

Kletchka said he asked them if they had anyone they could stay with.

“I said, ‘I’m concerned for your safety and, honestly, I’m concerned for my family’s safety too,’ ” Kletchka said. “Jerry said, ‘I’m not going anywhere without Bo; Bo is all I have left.’ ”

Dorothy, he said, stood beside Sandusky. Silently.
568 2012-06-18 Apple’s move into maps was not exactly a surprise. It has bought a few companies that make mapping features, like three-dimensional visualizations, and has secured rights to data like the names and layouts of streets in over 100 countries from TomTom, a big digital map company based in the Netherlands.

But making digital maps is not easy. Google has spent years working on its services, pouring all kinds of resources into the effort, including its Street View project to photograph and map the world. It will be hard to duplicate that depth and breadth.

“Apple has gotten into a place that is very technical, quite a challenge, and like nothing they’ve done before,” said Noam Bardin, chief executive of Waze, a mapping service that provides real-time traffic information by tracking the movement of phones.

Still, it would be foolish to underestimate Apple, said John Musser, editor of ProgrammableWeb, an online service that follows mobile application development.

“Apple so far has close to nothing in maps, because they never had a product before,” Mr. Musser said. “But they are hardly empty-handed.”

Mapping technology is a growing field that draws on everything from aerial photography to the movement of the continents, to individual comments on Web sites about a favorite hiking trail or a bad dining experience. ProgrammableWeb counts 240 mapping-related services that people building mobile map applications can draw from. That is up 73 percent from a year ago, and 243 percent from 2009.

Apple has offered few details about its plans for the map service, which is part of the new operating system, iOS 6, that was unveiled at the company’s annual developer conference in San Francisco. Some of the features may come from companies that it now owns. Apple may buy other features — like store locations and hours, and information about walking paths, landmarks and public transportation — from data companies, independent developers and consumer information services like Yelp.

Apple can expect to pay a lot of money for this information. Google declined to comment on what it spends on its map business, but others in the industry estimate that the figure is $500 million to perhaps $1 billion annually, equal to a fifth of its budget for research and development.

For consumers, an important part of the Apple service is likely to be the apps that support and enhance it. This week, Apple is set to widely release its instructions, known as a software development kit, to guide developers in designing these apps.

Those instructions are important to hundreds of independent software developers like Scott Rafer, whose start-up is making user-friendly walking directions for maps, based on things like landmarks and street views. He hopes to produce an app that is a hit in the app store, or even wins Apple’s eye as it looks for more partners.

“We’re all trying to figure out the next 100 days” before Apple releases the operating system to consumers, Mr. Rafer said. “Does Apple want gorgeous features, or do they want ubiquity?”

Once Apple releases its new service, iPhone users will still be able to reach Google maps through the browser in their phone. But in practice most people go with the default map. Even if you do go to the browser for a Google map, you would not have any of the associated services, like connecting directly to a map location from an address written in an e-mail.

For Google, losing the maps spot on the iPhone is no small matter. According to the research firm comScore, in March, people with iPhones spent, on average, 35 percent more time using the maps on their devices than Android users did, although over all there are far more Android owners using maps. The maps feature is the second most popular one on the iPhone, comScore says, after iTunes.

By losing the maps spot, Google will lose data about iPhone users’ locations, destinations and driving and shopping habits — information that is useful to a company selling ads. It also helps Google provide local search information, an area Apple has already moved into with Siri, its voice-activated search tool.

“Being in maps and getting that data affects Google’s revenue from things like sponsored links, and it affects search quality,” Mr. Bajarin said. “People could move from saying ‘Google it’ to ‘Ask Siri.’ ”

Google has other rivals in the mapping business as well. Microsoft is coming out with its own new mobile operating system at about the same time, using its Bing Maps service. Yahoo Maps, also popular, relies primarily on maps from Navteq, which is owned by Nokia. Bing Maps and MapQuest also use Navteq maps.

There are even rumors that Amazon, whose Kindle reader runs a version of Android, will revamp its comparison shopping app in time for Christmas, in a new mobile device. That could also require maps.

None of the four companies would discuss the details of their plans for mobile maps.

Google initially relied on outside sources for map information, as Apple will at first, but it now pays for its own planes, cars, bicycles, snowmobiles, hikers, satellite data and geographers, among other things, to produce comprehensive online maps. A few days before Apple’s announcement, Google held a news conference with little news but lots of details that underlined how much Apple would be paying to play this game.

At the end of its last fiscal quarter Apple had $110 billion in cash and securities, so it can afford the battle. How well it can share information with developers and integrate their services into a single experience remains to be seen.

“Every rendering of every map on the iPhone was going to Google,” Mr. Musser said. “Apple had to do something, since maps are the fundamental unit of a mobile Web.”
569 2012-06-18 ¶The Aruba Tourism Authority named three agencies to handle its North American marketing, with billings estimated at $10 million. Concept Farm, New York, will handle advertising; the Zimmerman Agency, Tallahassee, Fla., will handle public relations; and U.S. International Media, New York, will handle online and offline media. The advertising and media duties had been handled by Deutsch New York, part of the Deutsch division of Lowe & Partners, which is owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies. M. Silver Associates, New York, handled public relations.

¶Michael Goldberg joined Deutsch New York as partner and chief marketing officer, assuming duties that had been handled by Michael Duda, who was chief corporate strategy officer before he left in 2010 to help start Consigliere, a marketing consultancy. Mr. Goldberg had most recently been senior partner and global chief marketing officer at Porter Novelli, part of the Omnicom Group. Deutsch New York is part of the Deutsch division of Lowe & Partners, which is owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies.

¶Amie Becker joined Brokaw, Cleveland, as media director, a new post, directing the connection planning teams and overseeing work in all media forms. She had been vice president and director for connection planning at Northlich Advertising, Cincinnati.

¶Chris Weil was elected the 2012-14 chairman of the American Association of Advertising Agencies, New York, known as the Four A’s. Mr. Weil, who is chairman and chief executive at Momentum Worldwide, part of the McCann Worldgroup unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies, had served a one-year term as vice chairman under Chuck Porter, the 2010-12 chairman of the Four A’s; Mr. Porter, chairman at Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners, will serve for a year as immediate past chairman.

¶Advertising spending in the United States rose 2.6 percent in the first quarter compared with the same period of 2011, according to a report to be released on Monday by Kantar Media, part of WPP. The increase represented a reversal from the fourth quarter of 2011, when ad spending fell 1 percent from the fourth quarter of 2010. Ad spending in the first quarter in television media rose the most, 7.6 percent, followed by outdoor ads, up 4.6 percent. The largest decline came in newspaper media, down 4.3 percent, followed by Internet display ads, down 4.1 percent. Five of the 10 largest advertisers in the first quarter cut spending from the year-ago quarter — AT&T, General Motors, Pfizer, Procter & Gamble and Verizon Communications — and five increased spending — Comcast, L’Oréal, News Corporation, Time Warner and Toyota Motor.

¶Mr. Youth, New York, a social media agency, is being renamed MRY.

¶The Association of Independent Commercial Producers, New York, presented three Best of Show awards at the annual A.I.C.P. Show. The honor for advertising excellence for a campaign went to three commercials for Google Chrome, from the New York office of Bartle Bogle Hegarty and the Google Creative Labs unit of Google; Moxie Pictures was a creative consultant on two commercials. The award for advertising excellence for a single commercial was presented to “Back to the Start” for Chipotle from Creative Artists Agency, directed by Johnny Kelly of Nexus Productions. And the Most Next honor, for particularly innovative work, went to “GT Academy” for Sony and Nissan Motor from TBWA/Chiat/Day, part of the TBWA Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group, and directed by Jeff Zwart of @radical.media. That honor is accompanied by a $5,000 grant, which was donated to Room 13, a network of creative studios. ¶Chris Stonich, a partner at Lussier, Los Angeles, an entertainment marketing agency, along with four senior creative executives, acquired Lussier from Lynne Lussier, founding partner, who will become a creative consultant. Financial terms were not disclosed.
570 2012-06-18 An internal investigation at the Zicklin School of Business at Baruch College has uncovered “irregularities” in its executive master’s degree programs, and the college has taken disciplinary measures against faculty and staff members involved, Baruch officials said on Sunday.

A statement released by the college said that 15 students were “affected by alleged improprieties,” and that they would be allowed to “complete any work necessary if it is found they have not properly completed all of the requirements for their executive master’s degree.”

According to The New York Post, Chris Koutsoutis, who had held the title of administrative director of executive programs at the Zicklin School of Business, was accused by college officials of faking professors’ signatures. By doing so, Mr. Koutsoutis was able to improve the grades of students who might otherwise have been dropped from an executive education program.

Mr. Koutsoutis told The Post that he agreed to leave the school. “They did not like the way I was doing my job, and we mutually agreed I should leave,” he was quoted as saying.

A spokeswoman for Baruch, Christina Latouf, declined to explain the nature of the wrongdoing or to identify the individuals responsible, but the statement indicated that the administrator responsible for the programs was placed on leave. Baruch is part of the City University of New York.

The CUNY Office of Legal Affairs has also notified law enforcement agencies of the situation. Ms. Latouf, however, declined to comment on what particular allegations CUNY had passed on to the authorities.

According to Baruch’s statement, the investigation included interviews with students and with members of the faculty and staff, and an examination of records. In response, the college formed two committees: One will examine the executive education programs and “guide their redesign,” and another is reviewing the records of the 15 students whose grades were affected.
571 2012-06-18 “Owners May Not Be Covered When Hackers Wipe Out a Business Bank Account” (Business Day, June 14) identifies the steps that businesses can take to protect themselves online. Not mentioned is that law enforcement — one of the first calls small-business owners make when their accounts have been compromised — is woefully ill equipped to deal with cyberfraud.

The legal path is contentious and time-consuming; the court system can be slow, the point of origin of the attack may never be found, and energy is wasted as criminals live to fight another day.

Combating modern cyberfraud requires speed, nimbleness and intense smarts. The hackers are smart and getting smarter. Fighting hackers requires a set of tools that focus on prevention: stopping the bad guys before the damage is done.

Prevention before the fact rather than legal remedies after is the best path for business to take in combating cybercrime. Companies need to take matters into their own hands.

New technologies are deployed every day to smoke out the cybercriminals. Banks are already using these services, which are becoming cheaper and more accessible to small businesses.

To win the fight, businesses need to stay a step ahead of the criminals. As the adage says, an ounce of prevention is worth a pound (or in this case, a ton) of cure.
572 2012-06-18 Many bankruptcy lawyers believe that disclosure about fees in bankruptcy cases can be improved. In a presentation at the Justice Department meeting you refer to, the National Bankruptcy Conference, a voluntary nonprofit, nonpartisan organization of bankruptcy lawyers, law professors and judges, has suggested ways in which this can be accomplished without compromising client confidences or competitively sensitive information.

Prof. Nancy Rapoport of the University of Nevada-Las Vegas, a recognized expert on bankruptcy ethics, has praised the suggested approach. It certainly should be possible to improve fee disclosure while continuing to assure, as Congress intended, that professionals of the highest caliber will be involved in business bankruptcy cases.
573 2012-06-18 “Our Animal Natures,” by Barbara Natterson-Horowitz and Kathryn Bowers (Sunday Review, June 10), beautifully highlights the many disease processes shared by animals and humans. There have been advances in veterinary medicine that have benefited human health. For example, the Department of Agriculture in 2007 approved a therapeutic vaccine to treat melanoma in dogs, the first therapeutic vaccine in animals or humans, and a human melanoma vaccine has shown promise in clinical trials and may be licensed in the near future.

Animals share our homes and serve as sentinels for environmental toxic exposures, yet we do not include them in epidemiologic or biomedical studies in areas of research such as asthma, cancer or infectious diseases, even though they suffer from these diseases.

Imagine the benefits to both human and animal health if we integrated our research efforts, using the “One Health” approach, to study disease processes across species. Accomplishing this would require more research funding for veterinarians, allowing them to become equal partners with other research scientists.

The writers are co-founders of the One Health Initiative, a global effort to increase communication and collaboration between physicians and veterinarians. Dr. Kahn and Dr. Monath are physicians, and Dr. Kaplan is a veterinarian.

“Our Animal Natures” offers one more blow to human exceptionalism. We are animals, of course, and so we can learn much about ourselves from other animals. But from another perspective, there is a danger in such scientific claims of sameness.

Similar claims by the scientific community in 19th-century England were used to support cruel procedures like vivisection on dogs, and other inhumane experiments continue to be conducted on nonhuman animals with the purpose of expanding knowledge about the human body and illness.
574 2012-06-18 Police officers stopped nearly 700,000 people last year, 87 percent of them black or Latino. Of those stopped, more than half were also frisked.

The protest, which began at 3 p.m., followed recent remarks by Mayor that he planned to scale back and amend the practice, amid escalating protests.

“It’s clear that the mayor and police commissioner are hearing the message,” said Leslie Cagan, one of the march’s organizers. “They’re taking steps that might be small improvements, but what’s really needed is a stopping of stop-and-frisk. Many cities have had significant reductions of crime without it.”

Mr. Bloomberg has argued that stop-and-frisk gets guns off the street and reduces crime. The march, which stretched for about 20 blocks, ended at East 78th Street, a block from the mayor’s residence.

Demonstrators mostly adhered to the organizers’ call to march in silence, hushing talkers along the route. Members of labor unions and the appeared to predominate, but there were also student groups, , , the Universal Zulu Nation and the Answer Coalition. A group of Quakers carried a banner criticizing the stop-and-frisk practice; other signs read, “Skin Color Is Not Reasonable Suspicion” and “Stop & Frisk: The New Jim Crow.”

As of Friday, 299 organizations had endorsed the march, including unions, religious groups and Japanese, Chinese, Korean, Arab, and Jewish groups. The turnout reflected the growing alliance between civil rights groups and gay and lesbian activists, who in past years have often kept each other at arm’s length. Last month, the board of the N.A.A.C.P., which includes several church leaders, voted to endorse . The roster of support for the march on Sunday included at least 28 gay, lesbian and transgender groups.

Chris Bilal, 24, who is black and gay, said he had been stopped three times, the last time while dancing with two friends in Marcus Garvey Park in . “Sometimes I’m targeted as a drug dealer, sometimes as someone interfering with the quality of life, sometimes as a gay African-American man in a place I don’t belong,” he said. The idea for the demonstration took root three months ago in Selma, , after a commemoration of the 1965 civil rights march there, said , the president of the N.A.A.C.P., who met there with the Rev. and , president of 1199 S.E.I.U. United Healthcare Workers East.

Mr. Jealous rejected the argument set forward by Mr. Bloomberg and the police commissioner, , that stop-and-frisk policing reduced crime and improved the quality of life in black and Latino neighborhoods.

“Stop-and-frisk is a political tool, victimizing one group of people so another group feels protected,” Mr. Jealous said. “It’s humiliating hundreds of thousands of people.”

According to a report by the , during the 10 years of the Bloomberg administration, the police have performed 4,356,927 stops, including 685,724 last year. Among African-American males ages 14 to 24, the number of stops last year was greater than their total population.

One man who held a sign that read “Stop Racial Profiling” said he came to Central Park to relax but decided to join the march because of his own experiences with the police.

“It happened to me about 10 times,” said the man, Bruce Fitzgerald, 48, of the .

Seeking a contrast to some recent Occupy Wall Street demonstrations, organizers called for a disciplined, orderly march, with no clashes with the police. Though protesters did not have a permit, organizers said that their talks with the police had been cordial and cooperative, and that they did not expect conflict.

“This policy did not emanate from the rank-and-file police officers, and we’re not protesting them,” said Mr. Gresham, who was arrested at an Occupy protest in November. “We’re not going to the police commissioner’s home. We’re going to the mayor’s home, because he is the guardian of New York.”

But along the mayor’s street, the police used metal barricades to close the sidewalks and turned away pedestrians, including those unconnected to the march. For the second consecutive Sunday, Mr. Bloomberg took to the pulpit at a predominantly African-American church in and defended the stop-and-frisk program, saying it needed to be “mended, not ended.”

Speaking at the Christian Cultural Center, he told parishioners that violent crime had dropped during his tenure in office, in part because of the practice. But he acknowledged that the police could handle the interactions with more courtesy.

“If you’ve done nothing wrong, you deserve nothing but respect and courtesy from the police,” Mr. Bloomberg said. “Police Commissioner Kelly and I both believe we can do a better job in this area — and he’s instituted a number of reforms to do that.”

At the end of the march, Mr. Jealous, who walked with his 6-year-old daughter, Morgan, on his shoulders, said the silence conveyed the seriousness of the demonstrators.

“In this city of so much hustle and bustle and clamor, sometimes the loudest thing you can do is move together in silence,” he said.

But a few dozen voiced their disagreement with the strategy at the march’s end, chanting: “We can’t be silent. We got to fight back.”
575 2012-06-18 The ministers added that representatives of Greece’s creditors would discuss emergency and changes as soon as a government was in place. Much of the negotiations are expected to fall to , a strong proponent of austerity. It and other euro zone countries must also consider the needs of the larger economies of and , which are also under intense pressure.

Official projections showed New Democracy with 30 percent of the vote and 128 seats in the 300-seat . The Syriza party, which had surged on a wave of anti-austerity sentiment and spooked Europe with its talk of tearing up Greece’s loan agreement with its foreign creditors, was in second place, with 27 percent of the vote and 72 seats. Syriza officials had rejected calls for a coalition, ensuring its role as a vocal opposition bloc to whatever government emerges.

But unlike in the May 6 election, when New Democracy placed first but was unable to form a government, this time intense international pressure, and the fact that the Greek government is quickly running out of money, made it likely there would be a coalition with New Democracy’s longtime rival, the socialist party. Pasok placed third in the voting, with 12 percent of the vote and 33 seats. The extreme right Golden Dawn party got 18 seats.

Investors gave an early thumbs-up on Sunday night, pushing up the euro in value against the dollar. “It looks like we’ve avoided the worst-case scenario,” said Darren Williams, a European economist for in . “I think that’s important, because we could have gone to a very bad place very quickly.”

Previous rallies in response to developments in Europe were short-lived. A few weeks ago, markets initially responded positively to a bailout plan for Spanish banks, but that optimism quickly gave out when the American stock markets opened that Monday.

The health of the world economy weighs heavily on the , and on ’s re-election campaign. In recent days, Mr. Obama has increased the pressure on European leaders to find longer-term solutions to shoring up the euro. A White House statement on Sunday said, “As President Obama and other world leaders have said, we believe that it is in all our interests for Greece to remain in the euro area while respecting its commitment to reform.”

In a sign of the high stakes for global financial stability, the finance ministers, the White House and the European Commission urged Greek political leaders to form a government quickly. Under the current loan agreement, the next government has just weeks to determine how to slash the equivalent of 5 percent of the country’s gross domestic product to meet budget-reduction targets.

In a victory statement on Sunday evening, the New Democracy leader, Antonis Samaras, called for the formation of a government of national unity aimed at keeping Greece in the euro zone and renegotiating the loan agreement. “There is no time for political games. The country must be governed,” he said, adding, “We will cooperate with our European partners to boost growth and tackle the torturous problem of unemployment.”

, the 37-year-old leader of Syriza, conceded defeat. “We fought against blackmail to put an end to memorandum,” he said, referring to the loan agreement. “We’re proud of our fight.”

He added that Syriza would be “present in developments from the position of the main opposition party.”

Any new leader will face an uphill battle to inject confidence into a paralyzed Greek economy that depends heavily on the continued infusion of money from its only remaining lifeline, the European Central Bank. The Greek economy and a deficit-ridden government have lost most of their ability to raise new revenues or borrow money to continue operations.

But political analysts said no matter what government was formed, it would be weak and likely short-lived, lacking deep popular support and the broader confidence of Europe. And it was unlikely that the election results would persuade Greece’s European lenders to extend loans without economic reforms and drastic spending cuts.

Mr. Samaras “won a Pyrrhic victory,” said Harry Papasotiriou, a political-science professor at Panteion University in Athens. “New Democracy will try to renegotiate part of the memorandum agreement, but they won’t get far, and then they will have to implement within 100 days a very difficult program of reforms. And the unions of the public sector, supported by the radical left, will give him a hard time.”

Asked what the election results change, Daniel Gros, the director of the Centre for European Policy Studies, which is based in Brussels, said, “Unfortunately nothing.” He said the government would most likely not be strong enough to enact the structural changes needed to turn around Greece’s uncompetitive economy.

Meanwhile, Greece’s partners in the euro zone are growing impatient. “I think there’s no desire for them to leave, but very little inclination to say, ‘Let’s give them still another chance’ and give any substantial compromise on the rescue package,” Mr. Gros said.

For many Greeks, the election was a choice between hope and fear. Syriza had billed itself as a kind of “Greek Spring,” capturing the momentum of those hungry for change at almost any cost from a political system that is widely seen as corrupt and ineffective. It also had support from voters who felt betrayed by the socialists, whose party was in power in 2010 when Greece signed the first of its two loan deals with foreign creditors.

New Democracy tapped into different fears — of the unknown, of illegal , of an exit from the euro zone. Its main campaign advertisement showed an elementary-school teacher telling his students which countries use the euro. When one asks, “And what about Greece?” the teacher stares back in stony silence. “Why, teacher, why?” the student asks.

In the end, fear of imminent collapse, as opposed to the slow death of their economy and society, appeared to drive a majority of Greeks to New Democracy.

As he watched election returns at an outdoor cafe here, Theodossiades, 69, said he was glad that New Democracy had won. “This is the only way for the country to move forward,” he said. “Staying in the euro zone, despite all its problems, is much better than the alternative.”

Panagiotis Pierrakis, 48, an Athens taxi driver, said that he had voted for Syriza and that although it did not win, he thought the results had sent a message. The election, he said, was “a message” to Europe that “you are not the boss — Mrs. Merkel, or anybody,” a reference Chancellor of Germany. “We want somebody from our country to oversee our economic system.”
576 2012-06-18 Apple announced an expansion of Siri at the opening of its developers' conference on Monday; new devices and apps will work with the voice-command service. One of the more intriguing areas of that expansion was the addition of automakers to Siri's...
577 2012-06-18 A high school devoted to teaching students, mostly from minority groups, about advertising and media will graduate its first class of seniors.     The graduation ceremony for the High School for Innovation in Advertising and Media, in Canarsie, Br...
578 2012-06-19 Mark Bittman on food and all things related.
579 2012-06-19 Let's just assume for a few minutes that Microsoft's Surface tablet is as delicious as Microsoft executives made it out to be on Monday night. Does Microsoft then have any hope of competing with the iPad on price? Even if it does undercut Apple, w...
580 2012-06-19 Both parties don't want the interest rates on school loans to rise, but they can't agree on where to find money to make that happen....
581 2012-06-19 The London auction season kicked off on Tuesday night at Sotheby's, where a 1927 painting by Joan Miró, "Blue Star," brought nearly $37 million, a record price for the artist at auction....
582 2012-06-19 Jon Bernthal, of AMC's horror series "The Walking Dead," talks about his new roles in MCC Theater's coming production of "Small Engine Repair" and Martin Scorsese's new film "The Wolf of Wall Street."...
583 2012-06-19 Microsoft's new tablet hopes to challenge the iPad. Nick Wingfield and Catherine Rampell discuss....
584 2012-06-19 For the first time, the company reported results for the Nook division separately. It recorded Nook sales of $933 million for the full fiscal year, an increase of 34 percent over the previous year....
585 2012-06-19 Microsoft unveiled its Surface tablet at a news event in Los Angeles on Monday night, and on the Bits blog, tech reporters of The New York Times weigh in on the various features of the new device....
586 2012-06-19 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
587 2012-06-19 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
588 2012-06-19 While the specifics of your plan will depend on you and your children, there are some basics that make sense for most everyone....
589 2012-06-19 June 19, 2012 - Getting the legal bill after an insider trading conviction.
590 2012-06-19 Oklahoma City has often overcome large deficits, but the Heat could make that more difficult in the N.B.A. finals....
591 2012-06-19 June 19, 2012 — Microsoft’s new tablet hopes to challenge the iPad.
592 2012-06-19 The iPad, for all its glory, suffers from one very distinct flaw: It's difficult to use for creation. Microsoft is going after this imperfection and has made it a staple of the new tablet, the Microsoft Surface....
593 2012-06-19 June 19, 2012 - Best Buy's troubles signal changes in the retail electronics market.
594 2012-06-19 Microsoft's new tablet hopes to challenge the iPad. | How electronics retailers like Best Buy must change, or die. | Getting the legal bill after an insider trading conviction.
595 2012-06-19 Seth MacFarlane talks about juggling his many responsibilities as a producer of shows like “Family Guy” and director of his feature debut, “Ted.”...
596 2012-06-19 The big news this morning is Microsoft's introduction of its Surface tablet, intended to challenge the iPad, reports Nick Wingfield in Tuesday's New York Times. The device has a built-in "kickstand" that allows it to be propped up for watching mov...
597 2012-06-19 If Mitt Romney moves closer to a lukewarm acquiescence of President Obama's decision, he may be accused of flip-flopping. But candidates flip-flop when they conclude that the alternative might be more costly....
598 2012-06-19 Microsoft unveiled its new tablet, the Surface. There are many unanswered questions about it and some tough sledding ahead, but for the moment, we can celebrate the innovation....
599 2012-06-19 The United Nations human rights chief, Navi Pillay, on Monday accused Eritrea of carrying out torture and summary executions. Ms. Pillay told the United Nations Human Rights Council that there were 5,000 to 10,000 political prisoners in Eritrea, which holds a strategic stretch of the Red Sea coast and has been ruled by a single party and president since independence from Ethiopia in 1993. “Credible sources indicate that violations of human rights include arbitrary detention, torture, summary executions, forced labor, forced conscription and restrictions to freedom of movement, expression, assembly and religion,” Ms. Pillay said. She said the Eritrean government had not responded to requests to discuss her concerns.
600 2012-06-19 At a time when public school teachers face cuts in financing and are being asked to carry out new national curriculum standards in English and math, Ms. Weingarten said teachers were desperate for specific lesson plans that had been tested by others in the classroom.

“It is very easy for someone on high to say, ‘These are the standards that you will be teaching to,’ ” she said. “But where are the resources, the tools to actually make these things sing in their classroom?”

Sharemylesson.com is modeled on tesconnect.com, a Web site created by TSL in Britain. TSL, which generates its revenues by selling teacher recruitment ads in its Times Educational Supplement and Times Higher Education magazines, started the Web site four years ago and has since amassed two million registered users in 197 countries.

Both TSL and the union have invested cash and staff time worth about $10 million combined in the American site. Louise Rogers, TSL’s chief executive, said that although the company would eventually want to make money from sharemylesson.com, teachers would always have free access to the material created by other teachers, as well as content from other partners including Sesame Workshop; WETA, the public television and radio station in Washington; and Student Achievement Partners, one of the architects of the common core standards that 45 states have agreed to adopt.

“If you throw the wrong commercial model at it too early, you will kill it,” Ms. Rogers said. “If they are here to share user-generated content, you can’t turn that into a marketplace and think you can get away with it.”

Anyone who types “lesson plans” into Google will come up with millions of hits, with a variety of online resources at sites like Edutopia.org, Thinkfinity.org, Teachingchannel.org, Readwritethink.org and Betterlesson.com.

Some offer free material, while others, like Weareteachers.com and Teacherspayteachers.com, are sites where teachers sell lesson plans. Textbook publishers and other educational companies also operate Web sites where teachers can buy material.

Amy Spies, one of the teachers recruited to help vet the content uploaded to sharemylesson.com, said she often found the volume of education tips online overwhelming.

“My hope is,” said Ms. Spies, who teaches gifted students in the fourth grade in Port Orange, Fla., “that this will be a one-stop-shopping area which is free for teachers, where you don’t have to join or use a trial membership where you forget to cancel and all of a sudden you are paying for it.”

While many teachers relish sharing lesson plans, some say they might also hesitate to simply give away materials they have spent years fine-tuning.

Laura Bradley, who teaches eighth-grade English in Petaluma, Calif., and participates in several online communities, said she was recently asked to post an entire unit on the Web.

“It was the first time I paused and thought, ‘I have spent 10 years developing this unit, tweaking documents,’ and I wondered, ‘Do I just stick it all up there?’ ” she said.

Ms. Bradley added that the union stamp would not necessarily attract her to the site. But she said that if she experimented with it and discovered that the content worked in her classroom, “then it would becomes one of the sites in my bookmarks.”
601 2012-06-19 “Trust does not mean an absence of disagreement,” said Dr. Sullivan, who friends said had been blindsided by the call for her to leave. “But it requires that disagreements be frankly discussed. No matter how accomplished he or she may be, a president cannot read minds. When you choose a new president, tell him or her what you are thinking.”

She said she had not stoked the angry reaction to her removal, but she warned that it would have consequences. “Deans and provosts at every peer institution are setting aside funds now to raid the University of Virginia next year given the current turmoil on our campus,” she said.

Eight days after the news broke that Dr. Sullivan had been forced out after less than two years, the controversy continued to intensify rather than abate, a rare and embarrassing display of dissension for one of the nation’s premier public universities.

On Sunday, the faculty Senate, which had already demanded an explanation for Dr. Sullivan’s removal, approved, by a 68-to-2 vote, a statement of no confidence in the board. The same day, two of the university’s leading figures, John T. Casteen III, the president for 20 years before retiring in 2010, and John Simon, the provost and executive vice president, criticized the board’s handling of the affair.

On Monday morning, the executive council of the Senate met privately with Ms. Dragas, and then called for her and the vice rector, Mark J. Kington, to resign, and for Dr. Sullivan to be reinstated.

“The rector gave us answers that were vague, that were inadequate,” said George M. Cohen, the Senate president. The nonvoting student member of the Board of Visitors, Hillary Hurd, sounded a similar note, saying that while students held different views of the dispute, they shared “a desire for a better explanation.”

The mystery of Dr. Sullivan’s ouster only deepened last Friday, with the release of a bluntly critical 12-page strategy memorandum she wrote last month, which emphasized points — including fund-raising, reorganizing the university and raising faculty salaries to stop a talent drain — that Ms. Dragas has suggested are among her main concerns.

The confusion has contributed to a raft of theories about behind-the-scenes maneuvering. Among them, one reported by some news organizations held that a wealthy alumnus and donor, Paul Tudor Jones, a hedge fund manager, had been involved in the removal of Dr. Sullivan. Addressing that notion, Ms. Dragas said Monday that “there is not one single person on earth whose interests we would ever put above those of” the university at large, and “certainly not one donor.”

Mr. Jones’ firm, the Tudor Investment Corporation, said he had no comment.

Meanwhile, university officials said, other alumni donors have threatened to withhold contributions unless Dr. Sullivan is reinstated.

Ms. Dragas orchestrated the removal of Dr. Sullivan in an unusual way, never going before the Board of Visitors. The rector talked with board members one at a time, and then on Friday, June 8, she told the president that most of the board would vote to remove her and asked for her resignation. Dr. Sullivan agreed, and the move was announced two days later, stunning nearly everyone at the university.

The secrecy continued with Monday’s emergency meeting of the board. The president had asked to address the board in public session, but it agreed to meet her only in a closed session.
602 2012-06-19 MILTON, Wash. — Will the nanny state take away our right to drink too much soda? Will the police rob us of privacy in the name of fighting terrorism? In an era of polarized politics, the fear of government encroachment is one thing that unifies Americans from the left and the right.

But here’s a news flash from the municipal trenches, where local governments these days worry more about keeping the lights on: The discussion about government’s role in places like this struggling former lumber town centers less on philosophy or politics than on practicality, triage and risk. And now that dynamic has led to an unlikely place in the road: helmet laws.

For 15 years, until June 1, Milton, population 7,000, 45 minutes south of Seattle, required helmets for all bicyclists and skateboarders. But with its 12-officer police force stressed by an increase in domestic violence, alcohol abuse and property crime, all of which surged through the recession, law enforcement priorities now go way beyond hectoring people about their headgear.

And an inability to enforce a law on the books, the town’s insurance consultant argued, created administrative unevenness that — in the event of an accident by someone who was not nagged or cited about helmet use — posed a liability risk that could bankrupt the community with one swipe from a punitive-minded jury.

So in a unanimous vote of the City Council on May 21, helmet laws went the way of Milton’s library and fire department, both of which closed in 2010 and were replaced by regionally shared systems with neighboring communities. The city’s planning department and activities director are also now just chapters of local history. Projected tax revenues for Milton’s general fund budget have fallen to $3.9 million from $4.9 million in 2010, and Mayor Debra Perry said she was not at all sure yet what else might have to go.

There is one thing she is clear and adamant about, though: helmets are good, notwithstanding anything in the legal code. She said she hoped to organize a safety fair and helmet drive this summer to push the connection between helmet use and safety. What was a requirement — though unevenly enforced in the best of times — is now, she said, a point of moral suasion and conversation within the community.
603 2012-06-19 Now, with the economy shaping up as the central issue of the presidential election, both and have been relentlessly trying to make the case that their policies would bring prosperity back. The unease of voters is striking: in a New York Times/CBS News poll in April, half of the respondents said they thought the next generation of Americans would be worse off, while only about a quarter said it would have a better future.

And household wealth is dropping. The Federal Reserve reported last week that the economic crisis left the median American family in 2010 with no more wealth than in the early 1990s, wiping away two decades of gains. With stocks too risky for many small investors and savings accounts paying little interest, building up a nest egg is a challenge even for those who can afford to sock away some of their money.

Expenses like putting a child through college — where tuition has been rising faster than inflation or wages — can be a daunting task. When Morgan Woodward, 21, began her freshman year at the , three years ago, her parents paid about $9,000 a year in tuition and fees. Now they pay closer to $13,000, and they are bracing for the possibility of another jump next year. With their incomes flat, though, they recently borrowed money to pay for her final year, and to begin paying the tuition of their son, who plans to start college this fall.

“You know there is going to be small incremental increases in tuition, but not the 8, 10, 12 percent increase every year we’ve seen,” said Ms. Woodward’s father, Cliff Woodward, 52, who lives in Pleasanton, Calif., and is an independent sales representative for an eyeglass company. So the Woodwards, who drive cars with 150,000 and 120,000 miles on them, have cut back.

“No vacations, no big screens,” Mr. Woodward said. “We’ve cut down on going out a little bit, but it’s worth it.”

People with college degrees still get jobs with better pay and benefits than those without, but many recent college graduates are finding it hard to land the kinds of jobs they had envisioned. David Thande, 27, who graduated from the , five years ago, works part time as a clerk in an Apple Store.

“I’m not even full time, so I spend about 45 minutes every day begging people for hours, checking if someone canceled, struggling to make it work,” Mr. Thande said, adding that he had fallen behind on paying back his .

Garland Miller, 28, who has degrees in finance and accounting from the and Kennesaw State University, had hoped to land a job at a big accounting firm, and to have been able to buy a home by now. Instead he finds himself working as the lead server at a steakhouse. But he has not given up on trying to move into the field that he prepared himself for: This month, he attended a jobs fair in Duluth, a suburb of Atlanta, organized by the University of Georgia for its alumni.

“I’m not in a job where I’m using all of my skills,” Mr. Miller said. He said that with many baby boomers unable to retire as early as they had hoped, there are fewer opportunities for younger workers to move up and take their places. “Instead you have everybody competing for entry-level positions,” he said.

Things are much worse for people without college degrees, though. The real entry-level hourly wage for men who recently graduated from high school fell to $11.68 last year, from $15.64 in 1979, according to data from the Economic Policy Institute. And the percentage of those jobs that offer has plummeted to 22.8 percent, from 63.3 percent in 1979.

Though inflation has stayed relatively low in recent years, it has remained high for some of the most important things: college, health care and even, recently, food. The price of food in the home rose by 4.8 percent last year, one of the biggest jumps in the last two decades.

Sam Chea, 38, who lives in and works nights delivering pizzas for Domino’s, said that he had been feeling the pinch at grocery stores, and worried that his lack of a college education was making it harder for him to find decent work. The other day he went to the nearby city of El Cerrito to apply for a second job at Nation’s Giant Hamburgers, a regional chain.

“I’ll be more secure with another job,” he said. “It’s scary. I don’t have an education, and I’m worried about my rent.”

“Everything’s gone up. Rent went up, gas went up, food went up, milk went up, cheeseburgers went up, even went up,” said Mr. Chea, who had stopped at the barbershop to spiff up before his job interview. “I’m used to getting a haircut for $6 or $7, but they charged me $9. Even haircuts have gone up.”
604 2012-06-19 As marchers in Manhattan protested the Police Department’s increasingly unpopular stop-and-frisk program on Sunday, Mayor Michael Bloomberg took to the pulpit at a predominantly black church in Brooklyn and said the policy must be “mended, not ended.”

But a Sunday visit to church is not going to fix a program that ensnares hundreds of thousands of residents a year, most of them black and Hispanic. The city will have to do much more to calm public anger and bring this runaway program into line with constitutional law.

The protest made it clear that discontent with the program has spread well beyond African-Americans and Hispanics, who make up about half the city’s population but were involved in more than 85 percent of the nearly 700,000 stops that took place last year. Nearly 300 civic organizations — representing people of many faiths and ethnic backgrounds — endorsed the march.

In recent weeks, Mr. Bloomberg has repeated the notion that minority youths were being stopped because they live in areas where most of the crime takes place, not because of race. But an analysis by the legal scholar Jeffrey Fagan in connection with a federal class-action lawsuit showed that minorities are more likely to be stopped not just in high-crime, high-minority areas but even in low-crime districts with racially mixed populations.

Officers who stop citizens because they see “suspicious bulges” — suggesting guns — actually seize guns only 0.15 percent of the time. And city statistics show that more than half of all stops last year were carried out because the individual displayed “furtive movements” — a meaningless term. A 24-year-old black man who participated in Sunday’s march told The Times: “Sometimes I’m targeted as a drug dealer, sometimes as someone interfering with the quality of life, sometimes as a gay African-American man in a place I don’t belong.”

If City Hall has a plan to fix stop-and-frisk, it is keeping it private. When we asked on Monday, we were directed to an earlier speech that contained vague platitudes about reforming marijuana possession laws. The police commissioner, Raymond Kelly, said there would be better training and supervision. The mayor told one church that the department would put an emphasis on ensuring “that when innocent people are stopped and questioned, the interaction does not leave them hurt and angry.”
605 2012-06-19 Six of the nine Republicans on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee wrote Mr. Obama last week that Mr. McGurk “lacks the leadership and management experience” to run the largest American embassy in the world and suggested that the e-mails documented “unprofessional conduct” and “poor judgment” that would tarnish his credibility. The public opposition by Republicans led to private defections among Democrats, including Senator Barbara Boxer of California, according to Democrats.

The White House insisted that it would fight for Mr. McGurk, whose nomination was up for a committee vote on Tuesday. Asked on CNN over the weekend if the White House would withdraw the nomination, David Plouffe, the president’s senior adviser, said: “No. We’ve made this nomination, and we think he will ably serve as ambassador.”

But Mr. McGurk foresaw a bruising, protracted floor fight and pulled his candidacy. The White House released a statement on Monday thanking him for his “tireless and effective leadership in Iraq from the height of the war to the moment our last troops left Iraq” and beyond. “While we regret to see Brett withdraw his candidacy,” Tommy Vietor, a White House spokesman, said in the statement, “there is no doubt that he will be called on again to serve the country.”

In nominating Mr. McGurk, Mr. Obama turned to one of the most prominent veterans of the Iraq operation. Mr. McGurk served in the Coalition Provisional Authority installed after the 2003 invasion and later worked for Mr. Bush on Iraq issues at the White House. He was one of the architects of the 2007 troop surge credited with helping turn the war around, and he negotiated the agreement Mr. Bush signed in 2008 committing to withdrawing troops by the end of 2011.

Mr. Obama, who fulfilled that agreement, tapped Mr. McGurk over the last three years to help manage issues in Baghdad, including as his own negotiator seeking an agreement to leave a small residual American force after 2011. The failure of those talks left some Republicans, including Senator John McCain of Arizona, skeptical of Mr. McGurk’s nomination even before the e-mails with Ms. Chon were posted.

Mr. McGurk’s defenders said that while the e-mails may have been unseemly, they did not detract from his ability to represent the country in Iraq. But the same bipartisan experience that had been Mr. McGurk’s strength proved a weakness. While Republicans were disinclined toward anyone nominated by Mr. Obama, Democrats were not eager to rally to defend someone who worked for Mr. Bush.

In his letter to Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton, Mr. McGurk wrote that he decided to withdraw while visiting graves of soldiers killed in Iraq at Arlington National Cemetery. He also cited the pain of seeing his new wife drawn into the political battles of Washington.

“The most difficult part of this process, however, was watching my wife become a part of it,” he wrote. “She is the most precious thing in the world to me, and the depiction of our relationship has been both surreal and devastating. We have also witnessed real sacrifice and suffering in Iraq and know that nothing should be allowed to distract from the pressing work that must be done to build a better future there.”
606 2012-06-19 The Fed also confronts a particularly complex version of its necessary but impossible task of predicting the future. Two unusually tangible risks loom large. Events in Europe could freeze financial markets and political dysfunction in Washington could push the domestic economy back into .

banks typically are reluctant to stimulate growth in the expectation of a slowdown, fearing they will end up doing too much. But the Fed’s vice chairwoman, , suggested this month that this might be the rare moment when the central bank should consider prophylactic measures.

“It may well be appropriate to ensure against adverse shocks that could push the economy into territory where a self-reinforcing downward spiral of economic weakness would be difficult to arrest,” Ms. Yellen said.

The Fed is already engaged in a substantial and multilayered campaign to enhance growth. It has kept short-term interest rates near zero since late 2008, and said that it planned to maintain that policy until late 2014, at least. It has bought more than $2 trillion in Treasuries and securities to further reduce long-term interest rates. And in a program scheduled to end this month, it has shifted the composition of its portfolio to press down even harder on long-term rates.

Mr. Bernanke has been clear about the threshold for additional action, telling Congress the decision hinged on whether the Fed expected the economy to grow fast enough to reduce unemployment, as inflation remains firmly in check.

“That’s the essential decision,” Mr. Bernanke said. “Will there be enough growth going forward to make material progress on the unemployment rate?”

The 12 members of the committee will arrive with updated economic forecasts, which will be published Wednesday after the Fed announces any changes in policy. Mr. Bernanke also plans to hold a news conference Wednesday afternoon.

If the Fed decides to act, a wide range of analysts said the central bank was most likely to extend its current campaign, Operation Twist. The program involves the sale of short-term securities to finance the purchase of securities with longer terms, putting downward pressure on long-term rates.

Alternatively, the Fed could take the more modest step of announcing that it intends to hold short-term rates near zero beyond 2014. It also could take the more forceful step of expanding its investment portfolio.

David Greenlaw, an economist at , said he expected the Fed to announce that it would buy a mix of Treasuries and mortgage securities to further reduce borrowing costs for businesses and consumers.

“Had there been a major risk-on rally in financial markets in response to the election outcome in we might have lost a bit of confidence,” he wrote in a note to clients Monday. “But it seems clear that there is no such response forthcoming and thus we continue to expect a significant policy announcement from the Fed.”

Republicans have been vocal in their opposition to new actions by the Fed, while Democrats have offered relatively little public support.

, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, said Sunday that another round of asset purchases would most likely do more harm than good.

The last round of purchases “did not put Americans back to work, did not raise our home values, did not bring jobs back to this country or encourage small businesses to open their doors,” Mr. Romney said on ’s “Face the Nation.”

As for the consequences, Mr. Romney said the program was “not extraordinarily harmful, but it does put in question the future value of the dollar and it will obviously encourage some inflation down the road.”

Most studies of the Fed’s actions have concluded that asset purchases provide a modest boost to the economy, although other obstacles have muted the impact. People who cannot qualify for a do not benefit from low rates.

Inflation remains near the 2 percent annual rate that the Fed regards as most conducive to steady long-term economic growth, and Fed officials maintain that asset purchases will not increase the pace of inflation.

Analysts said the benefits of additional action would be marginal, particularly if the Fed chose to extend Operation Twist for a few months.

But they said the Fed still might tip back into action to avoid giving the impression that the end of Operation Twist signaled a reduction in its efforts to stimulate growth. Fed officials argue that the impact will endure so long as the assets remain in the Fed’s portfolio, but they acknowledge that perceptions could undermine that reality. If the markets decide the Fed is pulling back, rates could rise.

Martin Schwerdtfeger, a senior economist at TD Bank in , predicted last week that the Fed would not act at this meeting unless the outcome of the Greek elections unnerved financial markets. But he said Monday that he had concluded the Fed might act simply to avoid unnerving markets itself.

“If I had to bet money on it today, I would say there is a 50 percent chance,” he said.
607 2012-06-19 Microsoft’s decision to create its own tablet was an acknowledgment that the company needed to depart from its regular way of doing business to get a grip on a threat to its dominance in computing.

While it has made a few hardware products over the years, including the Xbox video game console, Zune player and computer keyboards, Microsoft is still thought of largely as a software company.

In the computer business, it has for decades left the work of creating machines that run Windows to , and others.

But the response to Apple’s iPad has considerably raised consumers’ expectations of how well hardware and software work together.

That has put pressure on Microsoft to create a tighter marriage of hardware and software if it is to compete seriously with Apple’s products.

As it prepares to release Windows 8, which is designed for touch-screen devices, Microsoft can ill afford a flop.

The iPad already has eaten into sales of low-end Windows laptops, and there are growing signs that Apple’s tablet is becoming increasingly attractive to business customers, a lucrative market Microsoft has dominated for years.

Microsoft said one version of the Surface tablet would come with 32 gigabytes or 64 gigabytes of storage and feature a type of chip called ARM that is commonly used in mobile devices. Mr. Sinfosky said the price would be comparable to that of other tablets that use ARM chips.

He said a professional version of the tablet would come with an Intel processor, which is standard in more conventional PCs, and would be similar in price to ultrabooks, thin laptops that often start at around $1,000.

Mr. Sinofsky said the ARM tablet would be available when the next version of Windows was released this fall, and the professional version would go on sale a few months later.

With the detachable keyboard for Surface, known as Touch Cover, Microsoft seemed to be positioning its tablet as a more business-friendly alternative to the iPad, one that is better suited to productivity tasks that require faster typing. The keyboard has touch-sensing keys that become inactive when the cover is closed.

The keyboard could make Surface more competitive with Apple’s thin MacBook Air and more traditional Windows laptops. It will come in a variety of bright colors, adding a whimsical touch to the dark, hard-edged appearance of Surface. The company would not say whether the keyboard will be sold with Surface or separately.

One thing that will most likely limit sales of the tablet is Microsoft’s initial plan to sell it only in the company’s own retail stores, along with its Web store. Microsoft has opened 20 stores, and five more are coming soon.

On Monday, Microsoft seemed to borrow from Apple in the way it introduced the product. The company invited the news media to the event with only a few days’ notice and maintained an unusual air of secrecy around its details, withholding even its exact location until Monday morning.

If that alone wasn’t enough to pique the interest of the tech industry, the company took the risky step of more explicitly building up expectations for the event by promising invitees a “major Microsoft announcement,” and telling them they “will not want to miss it.”

In part, the secrecy worked, sending the blogosphere into a whirlwind of speculation about what the company had planned. The location of the event suggested to many that the device would be accompanied by a push into entertainment. But Microsoft announced no such plan and offered no explanation for why it held its event in Los Angeles.
608 2012-06-19 The greenhorns tickled us with their precocity, but a decade or two from now, we might look back at the leader board and marvel at all the graybeards in their midst: the 45-year-old David Toms; two 42-year-olds, Jim Furyk and Ernie Els; and the 40-year-old Padraig Harrington, all of whom finished in the top 10.

Golf used to be a good walk discovered by kids after they tired of more popular sports. Els played tennis; Bubba Watson, the Masters champion, started out as a promising baseball pitcher; Gary Woodland and Dustin Johnson competed in basketball; and Hale Irwin, the three-time United States Open champion now on the Champions Tour, played football.

That was before Woods came along in 1996 and, at 20, unleashed on the pros a game that was mature beyond his years, one he had been honing since he was old enough to walk. Between 1997 and 2008, Woods won 14 majors and made golf cool to a generation of kids, including Webb Simpson and Michael Thompson.

Simpson, 26, closed with consecutive 68s on the Lake Course to become the third American in a row to win a major, after Keegan Bradley and Watson. He finished one stroke ahead of Graeme McDowell, the 2010 United States Open winner, and Thompson, 27, who took up the game at the age of 6.

Players are gravitating to the sport ever earlier, a phenomenon that Simpson described as “the Tiger Effect.” Woods’s success has had the upshot “of inspiring people to play at a younger age,” Simpson said, “and I think the access to golf has gotten so much bigger that the game is changing.”

Age, like par, has become but a number. A golfer doesn’t have to be old enough to drive to hit it 325 yards off the tee. The sport is being infused with players who are young in chronological years but already old souls in golf. Consider Bradley, who won the P.G.A. Championship last year at 25, a result that Simpson said spurred him to dream bigger.

Or Casey Wittenberg, who carded a 67 in the third round and outscored his final-round playing partner, Woods, 70 to 73. Wittenberg, 27, has been a pro for nearly a decade. He was a teenager when he turned pro in 2004 after representing the United States in the 2003 Walker Cup.

Young players arrive on the big stage with more experience and less fear. It’s a big reason there have been 15 different champions in the last 15 majors.

“Even in college, I would have been scared to death to play in a U.S. Open,” said Simpson, who starred at Wake Forest. “And these guys are playing like they’re trying to win the tournament.”

That’s the direction that Simpson believes golf is headed.

“I think the game will continue to evolve like that,” he said, adding, “I think the prime of golf, the prime age 10, 15 years ago was mid-30s. Now it’s moving closer to the mid-20s or late 20s.”

The kids today, no matter where they grow up, have the winds of technology at their backs. As Woods pointed out: “I grew up in an era of VHS, and you always had to adjust the tracking so you never really got the exact positioning of it. These kids are now bringing out iPads to the range and watching their swing and breaking it down on the V-1. That’s totally different.”

He added: “These kids are now being introduced to technology when they first start. I saw a few of these kids over in Korea that have only been playing the game for a year. And six months of it was all indoors hitting golf balls. All they did was put the club in the correct position to hit balls, hit balls, hit balls. They come out, and they have perfect golf swings. That’s the new generation.”

Will the new generation have an enduring passion for the game to complement those perfect swings? Or will they be ready to retire when they reach their mid-30s, competitively stale but financially secure?

“For the young guys that were here this week, I don’t have much to say to them,” Simpson said. “They’re far beyond where I was when I was their age. I think my dad just always instilled in me to work as hard as I can. But don’t take it too far to where you don’t enjoy the game.”

As darkness fell over the course Sunday, Els was asked how it felt to be in contention compared to 20 years ago. “Well, yeah,” he said, “I’m just happy to be here.”

No kidding. Els has seen the future, and it’s not kind to golf’s elders.
609 2012-06-19 Males of a tropical species of orb-web spider castrate themselves, either partly or fully, after mating.

It might seem a self-destructive habit, but in removing their genitals, a new study reports, the spiders are actually improving their reproductive success.

By becoming a half eunuch or full eunuch, the spider reduces its weight by 4 to 9 percent. It then stands guard by the female it has mated with. Its lighter weight allows it to better fend off other males.

“When invaders — intact males — come in, eunuchs fight and do much better than the intact males,” said Daiqin Li, a behavioral ecologist at the National University of Singapore and one of the study’s authors. By keeping away other males and preventing females from mating again, the eunuchs can reduce sperm competition and maximize their own reproductive success. The researchers found that half eunuchs had a 32 percent increase in their endurance levels and full eunuchs an 80 percent increase.

All this is contingent on male spiders even surviving to this stage, however.

About 75 percent of the time, females of the species Nephilengys malabarensis cannibalize males after copulating. Females are aggressive, and much bigger and heavier than males, Dr. Li said. Males can mate a maximum of two times in their lifetime, depending on whether they remove one or both of their sperm-delivery appendages.

The study appeared in a recent issue of the journal Biology Letters.
610 2012-06-19 PARIS — Publicis Groupe of France said Monday that it had acquired a stake in an advertising agency based in Ramallah, on the West Bank, in what it described as the first equity investment by any of the big Western marketing companies in the Palestinian territories.

Publicis said it had bought 20 percent of Zoom Advertising, a subsidiary of Massar International, a Palestinian conglomerate with interests in businesses ranging from real estate to technology consulting.

The agency is small, with about 20 employees, but Maurice Lévy, chief executive of Publicis, said the deal carried considerable symbolic significance. He described it as an endorsement of the Middle East peace process, as well as an example of the ethical investment objectives of Publicis.

“Seeing that there is one of the largest advertising groups coming and investing is something that has been felt beyond just the value of the transaction,” he said.

Publicis also announced a larger investment in the region, a deal to buy BBR Group, one of the leading ad agencies in Israel. BBR, which has 220 employees and is based in Tel Aviv, has long been affiliated with several agencies owned by Publicis, acting as their representative in Israel.
611 2012-06-19 In less than a week, officials had enough evidence to warn the public that the infection appeared to be linked to clover sprouts in food at the Jimmy John’s sandwich chain, said James Collins, director of the communicable diseases division at the state’s Department of Community Health. The chain quickly removed the sprouts, and by April, the 11-state outbreak was over.

“You can see it happen in real time and zero in on the cause faster,” said David A. Ross, director of the Public Health Informatics Institute, a nonprofit organization that helps write digital standards. “That can save both lives and money.”

In Massachusetts, the data are being used to prevent hepatitis infections. Medical labs transmit more than 100,000 electronic reports annually to the state health department. Names are confidential, though available to certain medical personnel. The agency’s software sorts through the reports and every year identifies more than 1,500 cases of hepatitis B for follow-up.

Infected women ages 14 to 44 get special attention. Health officials alert their medical providers to infections; they in turn identify anyone who is pregnant or recently gave birth. Their newborns are vaccinated and then monitored.

Without that prompt protection, those babies risk lifelong infection with hepatitis B and its consequences, liver disease, cirrhosis and cancer. With paper records, locating at-risk babies would take weeks or months, said Kevin Cranston, director of the infectious disease bureau at the Massachusetts Department of Public Health.

“That would be too late to be of benefit to the newborn,” he said. Although the C.D.C. recommends prompt hepatitis B vaccination for all newborns, nationally, four in 10 did not get that protection, according to an agency report  last year.

When the H1N1 flu pandemic broke out in 2009, Wisconsin laboratories generated thousands of positive H1N1 test results, said Dr. Foldy, who was then chief medical officer of the Wisconsin Health Information Exchange.

“We were able to route this electronically into our case management system to alert public health nurses,” Dr. Foldy said.

“Because we were getting near real-time information from hospitals, we could see that even with the large numbers of emergency room visits for flulike symptoms, very few were being admitted as inpatients,” he added. This provided an early glimpse of how the pandemic was rising and then declining.

Public health officials in Marion County, Ind., were among the first to sound the all-clear in the flu outbreak by tracking the drop in cases from electronic reports from hospitals and laboratories, forwarded by the Indiana Health Information Exchange.

More than 150 health information exchanges are now operating or being set up across the country. (These differ from the insurance exchanges mandated under the Affordable Care Act.) Each exchange receives electronic medical data from clinical laboratories, hospital admissions offices and emergency rooms and relays it to relevant public health agencies.

Health care providers are required to provide pertinent data electronically to local and state public health officials, who feed into a national digital network coordinated by the C.D.C. in Atlanta.

Using an electronic records registry, the Urban Health Plan, a network of clinics in the South Bronx and Queens, was able to triple its caseload of mostly young, low-income asthma patients to 8,100. “We are in the heart of asthma country,” said Dr. Samuel De Leon, a lung specialist who is Urban Health’s chief medical officer.

His group compared spending per patient with a Medicaid managed care plan in the city that did not then have electronic monitoring. Using its record system to keep tabs on its patients, Dr. De Leon said, Urban Health was able to reduce emergency room visits and hospital admissions.

“For children, we saved about 39 percent of the cost of care. For adults, savings were in the 25 percent range,” he said.

New York City health officials began using electronic medical records six years ago. After reviewing the incoming medical data, city health department officials recently discovered that smoking rates are a little higher in Staten Island than in the other boroughs.

Now, instead of sending trainers on routine visits to every primary care doctor to help them learn to use electronic records to improve care, the visits are concentrated to help those physicians whose patients need it most.

“We can identify and monitor trends in high-priority diseases and health problems by geography and groups,” said Dr. Amanda Parsons, a deputy commissioner at the city’s Department of Health and Mental Hygiene. “We can tell where things are improving or getting worse.”
612 2012-06-19 In the third inning of the New York Gothams' first game on Governors Island on Saturday, a batter hit a towering fly ball to shallow left field.     The outfielder followed its arc, jogged into position - and let the ball drop in front of him, cat...
613 2012-06-19 A large trial has found that supplements of omega-3 fatty acid do nothing to prevent cardiovascular problems or death in people with Type 2 diabetes.     Diabetes greatly increases the risk of heart attack, stroke and other cardiovascular ailments...
614 2012-06-19 Many observational reports have suggested that statin drugs cause fatigue in some people, and now a randomized trial has found further evidence for the effect.     The experiment, published online June 11 in Archives of Internal Medicine, included...
615 2012-06-20 It's been three years now since American taxpayers forked over billions of dollars to put General Motors through bankruptcy. The new version of GM is back on its feet, making money again, even if its shareholders would like to see their stock do better.

But vestiges of the automaker still permeate the American landscape, from Massachusetts to a small town in Indiana and all over its home state of Michigan.

Old GM exists as a collection of the bankrupt company's mostly unwanted properties, including a church and a golf course, being sold off at cut-rate prices with the proceeds going not to the taxpayers but instead to a private trust.

Call them the GM Orphans: everything from homes to a rectory to full-sized assembly plants and landfills. These are the properties that GM once owned, and which are now for sale through the Racer Trust. It was set up after the GM bankruptcy to take title to 89 properties in 14 states, and it's been extraordinarily up front about its efforts to find buyers for this motley portfolio.

Today, at GM's vacant Willow Run plant near Ypsilanti, Mich., the trust is holding an open house and seminars for federal, state and local officials, as well as developers who might be interested in the properties. It will showcase some properties and give tips for renovating them — something like those weekly pet adoption spots you see on TV news.

But, like any trustworthy adoption agency, Racer can't just hand out these former GM sites to anyone who shows up. Buyers have to follow six criteria that were set down in an agreement reached between the Departments of Treasury and Justice, the EPA, the attorneys general in the 14 states, and the Saint Regis Mohawk Tribe in New York State, which owned land that was polluted by a GM plant.

Essentially, the buyer has to agree to help the community where the property is located, by finding investors, creating jobs, paying taxes and other steps. "It makes it a much more challenging assignment than a typical receiver," says Bruce Rasher, the trust's redevelopment manager. (You can read Rasher's tweets @BRasher_RACER from the open house #RacerTrust.)

For example, there is 5 million square feet of industrial space at Willow Run that any liquidator could dispense with in short order. "If the trust were to sell to a demolition/scrap recovery firm, we could sell it very quickly and for a lot more money than if the trust were to abide by the wishes of the community and put tenants and jobs in the building," he says.

That's probably why the non-profit trust has only taken in $19.2 million (million with an m) on the few properties it's been able to sell. They aren't exactly going for nothing: five of the properties have sold for more than $2 million apiece.

But when you think that it costs roughly $1.2 billion these days to build a single assembly plant, you can understand these are thrift shop values. By the way, the proceeds of any sales go to pay post-Bankruptcy trust's administrative costs, which include keeping the lights on, parking lots clear and the lawns mowed. The taxpayers aren't getting any of the money from this Old GM yard sale.

The GM Orphans include what you might expect and some things that you don't. For one thing, some of the property is still around decades after GM shut a place down, like the landfill in Framingham, Mass., where GM once built cars, and the Buick City site in Flint, Mich., home to a plant once portrayed as a model of labor-management cooperation.

There are office complexes in Pontiac, Mich., and a nine-hole golf course in New Jersey. There is even a church rectory in Bedford, Ind., where Racer also is selling some houses and vacant lots.

How did it end up with those, you might ask? Rasher explains that a GM plant nearby leeched pollution into the ground. Because of the area's geography, the contaminants spread out like fingers, popping up miles away in Bedford, beneath homes, the rectory and a church.

The church has been sold, and Rasher is actually optimistic about the chances for other GM Orphans to be adopted, due to a pick up in the economy and the trust's aggressive marketing. "My phone is ringing off the hook and my email box is filling with contacts and prospects," Rasher says.

But he admits some will never find owners. For example, landfills have "very limited use," Rasher says. "Yes, there are some properties that will never sell, but we're not precluded from some creative reuses. Each one is a different challenge or puzzle."
616 2012-06-20 Microsoft’s mobile operating system, Windows Phone, hasn’t made much of an impact on the phone market, but the company is investing even more in the software with a major upgrade set for release this fall....
617 2012-06-20 The Florida State baseball team has been to the College World Series 21 times, but has never won the title. But two wins over Arizona will put the Seminoles in the final....
618 2012-06-20 Burger King completed its latest flip on Wednesday, rejoining the public markets after closing a deal to merge with an investment vehicle whose backers include the hedge fund manager William A. Ackman....
619 2012-06-20 The baking maven Dorie Grrenspan and her son, Joshua, will open cookie shops this summer at the Essex Street Market and La Marqueta....
620 2012-06-20 June 20, 2012 — In the public sector, the pink slips keep coming.
621 2012-06-20 June 20, 2012 - What a verdict on the Affordable Care Act will mean for health insurance.
622 2012-06-20 Disunion follows the Civil War as it unfolded.
623 2012-06-20 The chef and partners behind Locanda Verde and The Dutch have taken over the space occupied by Chinatown Brasserie....
624 2012-06-20 The firm has signed up the first company to switch its London trading activity to NYSE Euronext London, the company's new exchange in the British capital....
625 2012-06-20 In the public sector, the pink slips keep coming. | What a verdict on the Affordable Care Act will mean for health insurance.
626 2012-06-20 If you have changed e-mail addresses since you signed up for an iTunes account, you can easily switch it to your new address - most of the time....
627 2012-06-20 An Austrian who spent his youth agitating about the environment reflects on what's missing at the big sustainability meeting in Rio....
628 2012-06-20 The billionaire investor, best known for his contrarian views and his early bet on Facebook, opened Mithril Capital Management with a $402 million fund....
629 2012-06-20 The struggles of a business trying to survive.
630 2012-06-20 The evolution of computing platforms over the last decade shows that innovative rivals can have more of an effect than antitrust cases....
631 2012-06-20 John Vink’s new iPad app, “Quest for Land,” documenting the struggles of Cambodians facing land-grabs and illegal evictions, is unbound by the restrictions of a book, allowing thousands of images to tell a fuller story....
632 2012-06-20 Five Cuban players are missing from an international tournament in Puerto Rico, the president of the Puerto Rican Basketball Federation said. The men did not attend practice Tuesday just before a game against Nicaragua, said Carlos Beltrán, the federation president. Cuba lost to the Bahamas, 81-66, on Monday in the tournament, the Centrobasket Championship, for teams from the Caribbean, Central America and Mexico.
633 2012-06-20 Mr. Dorfman’s CNBC report, which offered a potent mix of news, gossip and tips, was estimated to have reached half a million viewers daily. His assessment of any given company, whether bullish or bearish, could significantly affect its stock price within minutes.

As a result, his career became a study in microcosm of both the power and the perils of market journalism.

In a 1994 article about Mr. Dorfman’s CNBC reports, The Washington Post wrote: “During the past 18 months, more than 95 percent of the stocks recommended on the reports have increased in price dramatically — by an average of about 13 percent — usually within five minutes of Dorfman’s report. Companies knocked have quickly dropped in value by about the same percentage.”

So great was his influence that for a time in the mid-1990s, the Chicago Stock Exchange observed what became known as the Dorfman rule, which aimed to pour oil on the roiling market waters his report could create. Under the rule, small-order computerized trading of any stock mentioned on Mr. Dorfman’s broadcast was suspended for the next few minutes.

The CNBC reports, together with his monthly column in Money magazine, made Mr. Dorfman one of the highest-paid financial journalists of the 1990s. In 1995, The New York Times put his combined income from the two jobs at $900,000 a year.

Mr. Dorfman broke big stories. In 1989, writing in USA Today, he was the first to report the merger of Time Inc. and Warner Communications.

He sometimes made big blunders. In 1995, he reported on CNBC that the Coca-Cola Company planned to offer the Quaker Oats Company $60 a share in a takeover bid. As a result of the report, Quaker shares jumped $4.50 to close at $36.125.

In response, Coca-Cola, which said it planned no such bid, issued a statement described by The Times as “one of the most blunt, and most colloquial, communiqués from a Fortune 500 company in recent memory.” It read, in part, “Dan Dorfman does not have a clue.”

In an interview with The Times, Mr. Dorfman called the statement “a dumb reaction from a classy company.”

By the mid-1990s, Mr. Dorfman had become the target of allegations in the financial news media that he was influenced — wittingly or unwittingly — by sources who sought to manipulate stock prices. In a 1995 article that attracted wide notice, Business Week magazine reported that he was the subject of a federal investigation into “possible illegal insider trading” and other violations of securities laws.

The investigation was reported to center on Mr. Dorfman’s ties to Donald Kessler, a New York stock promoter and personal friend. Mr. Kessler, Business Week reported, typically charged his clients tens of thousands of dollars to meet Mr. Dorfman; Mr. Dorfman was said to have reported positively on some of Mr. Kessler’s clients on CNBC and in Money magazine.

In 1996, amid the federal investigation — and amid Mr. Dorfman’s subsequent refusal to disclose to his editors at Money magazine the sources on which he relied for his columns — Money let him go.

Mr. Dorfman was not charged in the federal investigation, and an in-house review by NBC, CNBC’s corporate parent, found no evidence of wrongdoing. (Mr. Kessler later pleaded guilty to securities fraud and tax evasion charges.)

After suffering a mild stroke in 1996, Mr. Dorfman did not return to CNBC.

Daniel Donald Dorfman was born in Brooklyn on Oct. 24, 1929. (Many sources list the year erroneously as 1930 or 1931.) He said in interviews that after his parents divorced when he was a young child, he spent two years in an orphanage before rejoining his mother.

Mr. Dorfman attended the New York School of Printing, a vocational high school in Manhattan, and served in the Army. After his discharge, he was hired as a copy boy at Fairchild Publications. He later covered retailing for Women’s Wear Daily before becoming a business reporter for The New York Herald Tribune.

After leaving Money and CNBC, Mr. Dorfman wrote variously for Financial World magazine; The New York Sun, a newspaper whose print edition was published from 2002 to 2008; JagNotes.com, an online stock-tip site; and The Huffington Post.

Mr. Dorfman’s first marriage, to Iris Cherney, ended in divorce; their only child, Leah Dorfman Kelly, died in 2008. Survivors include his second wife, the former Harriet Kasenetz.
634 2012-06-20 Bruce N. Gyory, who teaches political science at the State University at Albany, said he was riveted by the contest, because he could not think of a Congressional primary for an open seat that was as wide open, or as perplexing, since Herman Badillo eked out a win over Peter F. Vallone Sr. in 1970.

“I don’t think polling will be particularly helpful here,” he said. “I don’t think speculation is helpful here. I don’t see any reasonable prognostication about who will win. This is one that will be fascinating until you see the machines opened up Tuesday night.”

Turnout, everyone agrees, will be crucial, with perhaps 32,000 out of 186,000 registered Democrats expected to vote.

Ms. Meng, a fluent Mandarin speaker who has garnered much attention from the Asian-American media, needs a strong showing from Chinese, Korean and South Asian voters. Mr. Lancman, whose campaign believes he has the strongest field operation, is counting on support from Jewish and union voters, while Ms. Crowley, whose mailers have been praised as top-notch even by rival campaigns, is expected to run particularly well among white voters.

The winner of the primary election will most likely face Daniel J. Halloran III, a Republican member of the City Council, in the November general election.

The primary battle began in March, when Mr. Ackerman unexpectedly announced that he would not seek re-election. The Queens Democratic Party, led by its powerful chairman, Representative Joseph Crowley, tapped Ms. Meng, 36, to run; the reconfigured district is about 40 percent Asian-American, and if elected, she would be the first Asian-American member of Congress from New York.

But after Mr. Lancman, 43, announced that he would also seek the nomination, he picked up early momentum, collecting crucial endorsements from the Working Families Party, many unions and former Mayor Edward I. Koch. He also performed strongly in candidate debates.

Then came Ms. Crowley, 34, a cousin of Mr. Crowley. Despite speculation that she was a stalking-horse, urged by her cousin to siphon votes from Mr. Lancman, she insisted that she had contemplated running for higher office even before Mr. Ackerman announced his retirement.

There is also a fourth Democrat on the ballot, Dr. Robert Mittman, a libertarian-leaning family doctor, who has not attracted prominent endorsements or financial support.

In an interview, the low-key Ms. Meng vowed that she would be an independent force in Washington who would focus primarily on transportation, infrastructure and economic issues.

“When I’m drafting or supporting legislation, no one is whispering in my ear except constituents,” she said. “I’ve never had political rabbis.”

Mr. Lancman has vowed to focus on foreign policy and Wall Street reform in Washington, and has highlighted his legislative accomplishments, like helping homeowners recover legal fees in foreclosure cases. The most aggressive of the candidates, he sent out a mailer this week criticizing Ms. Meng and Ms. Crowley as being weak on counterterrorism.

“We all know there are Type A personalities, and maybe I’m a Type AA personality,” he said. “I will always be a very aggressive and prepared counterbalance to any of the crazy right-wing stuff that Republicans want to put forward.”

Ms. Crowley said she wanted to be a voice on women’s health issues in Washington, and dreamed of extending the No. 7 train to La Guardia Airport. She scoffed at the notion that she was a “spoiler” candidate, saying that “I guarantee I’m known better in my own district” than her opponents are in theirs.

“If somebody tries to poke fun at me, I don’t get distracted,” she said. “I always try to stay on message.”
635 2012-06-20 The United States Commission on Civil Rights is right to order an investigation into whether racial bias might be a factor in the rise in homicides connected to notorious Stand Your Ground laws. The shooting death of Trayvon Martin, an unarmed black teenager, in Florida has put into question how police enforce this kind of statute.

Law enforcement groups like the Association of Prosecuting Attorneys, which have opposed these laws, have long cautioned that they would have a “disproportionately negative effect on minorities.” Florida was the first in the nation to put public safety at risk with its 2005 Stand Your Ground law, and a score of states have followed suit.

In the Martin case, the police initially accepted the self-defense claim by George Zimmerman, who is Hispanic, even though a 911 dispatcher had cautioned him not to follow the teenager. The state eventually charged Mr. Zimmerman with second-degree murder but only after a public furor over the irresponsible law and the potential racial factors involved.

Data show that justifiable homicides have increased by 50 percent in states with these lethal laws. Michael Yaki, a member of the civil rights commission, has properly asked that the cases involving Stand Your Ground laws be analyzed to see if there is racial bias in accepting a claim of justifiable homicide when the victim is a minority.

The commission’s investigation should examine the multiple dangers to public safety wrought by undoing traditional self-defense principles. In place of the wise duty to retreat, these laws grant gun owners easy license to shoot to kill on the mere claim that they “reasonably believed” they were in danger. This is an immunity greater than that afforded police officers who shoot in the line of duty, the prosecutors association has pointed out. There can be no justifying the public mayhem legalized by Stand Your Ground. These laws should be repealed, and the civil rights inquiry should help make that point.
636 2012-06-20 “This is a country song,” said Dina Rosado, president of the school’s PTA and a great believer in Ms. Hawkins. “This is Brooklyn. This is not the country.” Ms. Rosado’s husband, Jorge, directed a sign at Representative Turner that said, “Shame on You.”

A news release distributed by Mr. Turner’s campaign aides explained that he had reached out to parents after Ms. Hawkins banned the song from a kindergarten ceremony on the grounds that its lyrics were too adult. That decision became a matter of national attention after The New York Post reported that she had sought to replace the song with Justin Bieber’s “Baby.” This never happened. Still, the story managed to gain an insidious traction, diagraming in miniature how we’ve wound up in a world where facts are routinely eviscerated for the sake of political spectacle.

Even after the city’s Education Department explained that Ms. Hawkins had eliminated both songs simultaneously, Representative Turner’s campaign staff perpetuated the myth, declaring in its news release that Principal Hawkins had forbidden kindergartners to sing “God Bless the U.S.A.” but instead allowed them “to sing a Justin Bieber song gauged toward teenagers.” When I asked the campaign press aide why this was being stated even when it wasn’t so, she said that she had relied on what had been “widely reported.”

Mr. Turner was not the only representative seeking to capitalize on the drama. Michael G. Grimm, whose district includes Staten Island and part of Brooklyn, but not this part of Brooklyn, and who has criticized the principal, was scheduled to attend the singalong. He changed his plans at the last minute, because, as a news release put it, “The House of Representatives is in session.” That release, too, reiterated the Bieber claim, despite the evidence. In lieu of Representative Grimm, aides were sent to hand out free copies of Mr. Greenwood’s book, “Does God Still Bless the U.S.A.?”

With so much at stake for children in the city right now — steep cuts to early-childhood and after-school programs on the horizon, and schools that by the end of the year have run out of money for substitute teachers — it would seem little to ask for politicians to acquit themselves productively in regard to public education.

Getting passionate teachers and keeping them is, of course, one of the biggest challenges of all.

After Monday’s event had devolved into rival groups of children singing in a kind of face-off — those who came with the parents who dislike Ms. Hawkins singing Mr. Greenwood’s song, and those who came with parents who are her fans belting “America the Beautiful” — a 25-year old teacher, Chiara Nakashian, emerged from the school. An Oberlin graduate, she’d come to P.S. 90 through Teach for America and found herself deeply inspired by Ms. Hawkins’s work ethic and standards. “She is an amazing woman,” she told me.

But all the vitriol and divisiveness were getting to her.  Ms. Nakashian said she’d stay another year, but after that she couldn’t say.
637 2012-06-20 But given the economic downturn across the euro zone and the political stalemate in Athens since May, one euro zone official said Tuesday that it was “quite logical” that Greece’s early targets had been missed. The memorandum signed by Greece and its creditors must be “changeable” to reflect evolving conditions, “otherwise it would be stupid,” said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity ahead of the private talks.

Conny Lotze, an I.M.F. spokeswoman, said such adjustments were not unusual for countries that had received financial bailouts. “These economic programs are not static,” she said. “They do get adjusted.”

The lengthy agenda of the Luxembourg meeting will also include an update on the precarious condition of Spanish banks, an I.M.F. economic review of the euro area and a report on the situation in Cyprus, which may have to seek its own European bailout agreement if it cannot secure a rescue loan from Russia.

The European official who discussed the possibility of revising Greece’s bailout terms indicated that flexibility could be shown in how the country used new taxes or in the additional spending cuts that might be required to bring the country’s debt down to a sustainable level by 2020.

By last month, for example, the government in Athens was supposed to have identified €11.7 billion in preliminary additional savings to meet budget targets for 2013 and 2014. Mainly because of the political turmoil, that has yet to be done.

The cuts, to be adopted over the next two years, were to have focused mainly on social, health care and military spending as well as reductions of government payrolls. But the euro zone official said that rethinking those cut would probably be one subject of talks over the summer.

With Mr. Draghi and Ms. Lagarde — frequent critics of inaction by euro zone governments — both present in Luxembourg, there could be spirited debate over the conditions and timetables set for Greece on making economic reforms, which are to include opening up closed professions, improving tax collection and selling state-owned assets.

Germany has continued to show little enthusiasm for granting Greece flexibility on the main terms of its bailout agreement. At a news conference Tuesday at the Group of 20 meeting in Mexico, the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, said she had spoken with Ms. Lagarde on Monday and urged her to move quickly once a Greek government was formed.

“It’s very clear that the reforms that were agreed to in the past are the right steps and that they therefore also have to be implemented,” Ms. Merkel said. “Now I’m waiting for the troika’s report.”

Amadeu Altafaj, a spokesman for the European Commission, insisted Tuesday that the memorandum covering the Greek bailout agreement would not be rewritten. But he also indicated some flexibility might be possible once a new government was formed and the lenders’ inspectors could return to the country.

“I’m sure the troika will be keen to go to Athens and map out the situation,” Mr. Altafaj said, “to discuss with the Greek authorities what the best means of implementing the program agreed upon by the Greek government with its partners is going to be.”

One possible source of tension within the euro group could be if Greece were given deadline extensions, which would result in the country needing more money to finance a longer payback schedule for its loans.

In a report Monday, Mujtaba Rahman, an analyst at the Eurasia Group, estimated the additional financing gap to be €20 billion to €30 billion.

A request for more money for Greece would almost certainly go down badly not only in Germany but also in other Northern European countries like Finland and especially the Netherlands, where anti-European parties on the far left and far right have been gaining support ahead of a general election in September.

The political sensitivities could mean that any revised agreement would be put off until a new Dutch government is formed, dragging out the uncertainty.

Ministers also are expected to review the results of two independent audits to be released Thursday on the health of Spanish banks, reports that the government in Madrid has said it will use to determine the exact amount of assistance to request. On June 9, the Eurogroup of finance ministers agreed to make up to €100 billion available to Madrid to recapitalize its struggling banks.

The announcement that European money was on call for Spanish banks, though, has done little to improve market sentiment toward Spain, in large part because the loans would only add to the debt burden of the cash-strapped Spanish government.

European officials insist, however, that a direct injection of capital into the banks themselves is impossible under current rules. In theory, the board of the new bailout fund, the European Stability Mechanism, could change those rules. But that fund is not expected to open for business until July 9 at the earliest, because the treaty establishing it has not yet been fully ratified.

Meanwhile, Cyprus faces a June 30 regulatory deadline to find €1.8 billion to recapitalize its second-largest bank, Cyprus Popular Bank, which was hurt by its exposure to Greek debt. The country has been discussing a loan from Russia or tapping E.U. rescue funds, and the Cypriot finance minister, Vassos Shiarly, said Tuesday that he was optimistic financing would be found in time.

Italy, which is combating the cost of paying the rising returns that investors demand to hold its debt rather than benchmark German bonds, could also be in focus at the ministers’ meeting this week.

But there is unlikely to be any enthusiasm for an Italian suggestion: To establish a semi-automatic way for the E.C.B. or the E.S.M. bailout fund to intervene in the bond market when the interest rate spreads of euro zone bonds rise by a specified amount over benchmark German bonds, which tend to carry the region’s lowest rates.
638 2012-06-20 The commander of the 300 unarmed United Nations observers assigned to monitor Syria, in his first direct report to the Security Council, cast doubts on Tuesday on the survival of their mission, telling diplomats that he had decided to suspend their work this past weekend because of repeated exposure to close-range gunfire and hostility, some aimed directly at them, by the antagonists there.

The commander, Maj. Gen. Robert Mood of Norway, said he was reviewing his suspension order on a daily basis and that the monitors would remain in Syria for the time being. “We are not going anywhere,” he told reporters at a news conference after the private briefing to the 15-member Security Council.

But General Mood and his superior, Hervé Ladsous, the under secretary general for peacekeeping operations, who also appeared before the Council, indicated in their comments to reporters that the monitoring operation could not resume unless President Bashar al-Assad’s forces and his armed opponents honored the terms of the peace plan that first placed the monitors in Syria two months ago.

That plan, negotiated by Kofi Annan, the special Syria envoy of the United Nations and the Arab League, has been largely ignored. The Security Council, which authorized the monitors, has begun to weigh whether to renew their 90-day mandate, which expires on July 20.

General Mood announced Saturday that he had suspended the patrols of his monitors because it was too dangerous amid the escalating violence, which Mr. Ladsous characterized last week as a civil war. The monitors have been continually threatened by gunfire and explosions, and were physically blocked on at least two occasions from promptly investigating evidence of civilian massacres that antigovernment activists said had been committed by Mr. Assad’s soldiers and loyalist militias. The Syrian government has denied any complicity in the killings.

By some estimates more than 3,000 Syrians have died since mid-April when the Annan plan was put in place in an attempt to end the conflict, which began in March 2011 as a peaceful antigovernment protest. Activist groups monitoring the violence in Syria reported that at least 30 people died Tuesday in hot spots around the country, including at least 10 in Homs and nine in the Damascus suburbs.
639 2012-06-20 For Justice Chaudhry, the action also offered a convenient diversion from an awkward turn of events: less than a week ago, the judge found himself explaining his personal finances in court after a billionaire property developer with close ties to both the Pakistan Peoples Party and the military came out with explosive corruption allegations against his family.

Now, those accusations, which damaged the judge’s anticorruption credentials and may have tarnished his populist appeal, are likely to be sidelined amid the political maneuvering over his ruling on Tuesday.

Experts said the judge’s dismissal of Mr. Gilani was legally contentious, but regardless, the Pakistan Peoples Party responded with uncharacteristic meekness. The party secretary general, Qamar Zaman Kaira, urged supporters to show “patience and restraint,” indicating that the government did not want its clash with the court to spill over into street violence, at least for the moment.

The muted reaction highlighted the cardinal principle of government under Mr. Zardari: ensuring his political survival, even at the cost of sacrificing his most loyal lieutenants. Others have already fallen, mostly at the hands of the court.

In November, Mr. Zardari jettisoned his ambassador to the United States, Husain Haqqani, after the powerful military pushed claims that, in the aftermath of Osama bin Laden’s death in May 2011, Mr. Haqqani had secretly approached the Obama administration for help in averting a military coup. Mr. Haqqani insisted he did not write the letter seeking help, but under pressure from generals and judges, he resigned.

More recently the Supreme Court forced Interior Minister Rehman Malik, Mr. Zardari’s political enforcer within the fractious governing coalition, to resign and surrender his British passport over rules that forbid officials to hold dual citizenship.

Other political parties, however, have largely escaped censure from the court.

Mr. Zardari’s strategy, said Mr. Almeida, the analyst, is to ride out the crises until the elections. “It’s a strategy of rolling with the punches, knowing that no rival has the ability to deliver a knockout punch and, in the absence of that, keeping your head down,” he said.

Mr. Gilani has, to a large degree, found himself caught in the cross-fire between Mr. Zardari and Justice Chaudhry. His dismissal stems from longstanding court demands that he write a letter to Swiss authorities requesting that they reopen a dormant corruption investigation into Mr. Zardari’s finances in that country dating to the 1990s.

Mr. Gilani has refused to do so, arguing that as president, Mr. Zardari has immunity from prosecution. After two years of delaying tactics, the court’s patience snapped last January when it issued Mr. Gilani an ultimatum: write to the Swiss authorities or face contempt charges. Mr. Gilani chose contempt.

“What will happen to independence of judiciary if speaker or Parliament tries to scrutinize judicial rulings?” Justice Chaudhry told the court on Tuesday. “No one can undo a court verdict except a court of appeals.”

The main opposition leader, Nawaz Sharif, welcomed the Supreme Court decision. “This is real accountability,” he told Geo television, calling for early elections. “Otherwise,” he said, “this government will embark on a path of destruction.”

Mr. Zardari, on the other hand, may seek to head off elections as long as possible, in part because his government is being battered by accusations of mismanagement over the country’s continuing electricity delivery failures. In Punjab, the country’s most populous province, mobs angered over chronic power failures rampaged through several cities for the third day running, clashing violently with the police and burning vehicles and offices. The daily blackouts — up to 20 hours long in places — have left many people miserable and jobless in the grueling summer heat.

“Law has become subservient to politics, but this government had it coming. It has been singularly inept,” said Najam Sethi, a veteran commentator. “They had six months to anticipate the power crisis, and now it is upon them.”

Early Wednesday morning, Pakistani television stations reported that the Pakistan Peoples Party would nominate Makhdoom Shahabuddin, a longtime Zardari loyalist and departing minister for textiles, to replace Mr. Gilani. Other names that were circulating included Foreign Minister Hina Rabbani Khar and various stalwarts from the party’s political heartland in Sindh Province and southern Punjab.

Any candidate, however, will need the approval of the party’s coalition partners — smaller, ethnically centered parties based in Karachi, Lahore and Peshawar that are likely to extract a high price from Mr. Zardari in exchange for votes in Parliament.

It was unclear what impact the decision would have on troubled negotiations with the United States to reopen NATO supply lines through Pakistan into Afghanistan.

In Washington, the State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said, “Our hope and expectation is that we will continue to be able to work with Pakistanis to try to finish some of these issues.”

For his part, Mr. Zardari canceled a planned visit to Russia in order to contain the crisis. Officials said he would announce the party’s next step on Wednesday.
640 2012-06-20 The Hazara leader, the former warlord Hajji Mohammed Mohaqiq, said that the almanac estimated that Hazaras constituted only about 9 percent of the Afghan population and that Pashtuns made up 60 percent. He said that the almanac also called the Hazaras, who are Shiites, infidels, among other inflammatory things. He demanded that the book be withdrawn and called for the abolition of the academy, which is under the control of Mr. Karzai’s office.

“A corrupt circle of characters surround President Karzai who are preparing for a civil war after 2014,” he said.

The almanac is not yet in general circulation, and officials at the academy would not discuss whether Mr. Mohaqiq’s assertions were correct.

Experts say it is hard to determine the country’s ethnic makeup. The C.I.A. World Factbook, for instance, estimates that the Hazaras make up 9 percent of the country’s population, the same as the figure said to be in the almanac, though it puts the Pashtun population lower, at 42 percent. But that is based on old data — there is no official Afghan census, and the country has changed through the past 10 years of war and turmoil. Some prominent Hazaras argue that the ethnic group may represent more than 20 percent of the population, though that, too, can be seen as a politicized figure.

In any case, Mr. Mohaqiq’s claims have resonated in the news media here at a delicate time, ahead of the withdrawal of NATO troops and the national elections. Estimates of the country’s demographics are seen as critical to establishing government representation, and Mr. Mohaqiq said that in the past such matters had led to civil conflict.

There is a sectarian component to the tensions, too. Members of Afghanistan’s Shiite minority, most of whom are Hazaras, faced savage discrimination during the years of rule by the Taliban, who are predominantly Pashtun. Though sectarian violence has been a less significant part of the insurgent violence of the past 10 years, there are concerns that such strife could be rekindled after NATO troops withdraw.

On Tuesday, an investigation into a bloody attack aimed at Shiites in Kabul last December found that it had been planned in Pakistan and had been intended to incite sectarian strife.

The chief prosecutor, Mohammed Ishaq Aloko, led an official commission looking into the attack, in which one of two potential suicide bombers struck a procession of Shiites at a shrine on Ashura, which marks the death of Shiite Islam’s holiest martyr. At the time, an extremist group based in Pakistan claimed responsibility for the attack.

“It was a special conspiracy on a special religious day of our nation,” he said at a news conference, adding that two Afghans had confessed to driving the bombers from Peshawar, Pakistan. “They wanted to ignite sectarian conflict in Afghanistan.”

Meanwhile, the summer fighting season continued in southern Afghanistan, with two insurgent attacks against Afghan and NATO security forces near Kandahar.

The attacks punctured a few months of relative calm brought about by more aggressive policing by Afghan security forces.

In one attack, insurgents wearing police uniforms besieged a police base on the outskirts of Kandahar, leaving four police officers dead and seven wounded, Afghan officials said. Three suicide bombers infiltrated the base before detonating themselves, NATO said. A fourth was killed before he could gain entry.

The base, where about 30 police officers are stationed, acts as a checkpoint for traffic entering or leaving the city. Some NATO troops are also stationed there, but there were no reports of NATO casualties.

The second attack took place about 50 miles north of Kandahar in the district of Shah Wali Kot. The attack, on a joint NATO-Afghan military base, resulted in the deaths of seven Taliban fighters, NATO and Afghan officials said.

The Taliban claimed responsibility for both attacks.

Southern Afghanistan is still seen as volatile and vulnerable to Taliban violence. But officials said the frequency and the size of the attacks had diminished a little in recent months because of the increase in the number of Afghan security forces being deployed, especially in Kandahar, and an increase in the number of raids to detain suspected insurgents and restrict their movements.

The tactics are forcing the insurgency to resort to attacks on the city’s fringes or in outlying districts, as in Tuesday’s burst of violence, the officials said.

“We deployed more security forces in Kandahar and out of Kandahar City, and that is the reason Kandahar is calm,” Gen. Abdul Raziq, the police chief in Kandahar Province, said in an interview.
641 2012-06-20 Tanglewood, the summer home of the Boston Symphony Orchestra in Lenox, Mass., is celebrating its 75th anniversary this summer in several big ways.     The two-month Boston Symphony season doesn't begin until July 6, when Christoph von Dohnanyi con...
642 2012-06-20 Times Square dazzles, but it is short on pure delight.     That is why the entrances of the Hilton Times Square on West 42nd Street and West 41st Street were such a treat: a small army of imaginative bronze figures by the sculptor Tom Otterness cl...
643 2012-06-20 Barnes & Noble reported a fourth-quarter loss of $57.7 million on Tuesday, falling short of market expectations, even though sales of the popular ''The Hunger Games'' and ''Fifty Shades of Grey'' and the liquidation of Borders lifted same-store sa...
644 2012-06-20 3:42 p.m. | Updated      The author Alice Walker has told an Israeli publisher that she will not permit it to release a Hebrew-language translation of her Pulitzer Prize-winning novel, ''The Color Purple,'' as a protest of Israel's treatment of Pa...
645 2012-06-20 When a man has lost the woman he loved, seen the near-annihilation of the human race, been stabbed to death, resurrected as a lumbering corpse and shot and killed again, where does he go next? To the stage, of course.     With his ''Walking Dead''...
646 2012-06-21 An investigation into the day Facebook shares began trading on Nasdaq has raised attention to fears that missteps by exchanges are causing investors to lose confidence in the markets....
647 2012-06-21 A kitchen-supply store in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, is opening an outlet in the Flatiron district....
648 2012-06-21 Moody’s Investors Service, which had warned banks that a downgrade was possible, cut credit scores to new lows to reflect changes in the industry since the financial crisis....
649 2012-06-21 In May 2011, scenes for “Men in Black 3” were filmed on Court Street in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn. But all of the inconvenience the movie shoot entailed was for naught....
650 2012-06-21 The Department of Energy is weighing the possibility of developing a market for carbon dioxide as a commercial product....
651 2012-06-21 Moody’s Investors Service has begun notifying some large banks that their ratings may be cut as early as today....
652 2012-06-21 Up Next in Business
653 2012-06-21 Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, dismissed the Republican investigation that has led to a showdown over executive privilege and contempt of Congress as a "politically motivated, taxpayer-funded, election-year fishing expedition."...
654 2012-06-21 Up Next in Business
655 2012-06-21 Supporters of the deal are expected to testify on Thursday that the Internet has weakened the record companies, thus making another step toward consolidation less than worrisome....
656 2012-06-21 Cecilia Conrad, from Pomona College in Claremont, Calif., will be in charge of the "genius" grants program....
657 2012-06-21 Kerry K. Killinger, the bank's chief executive until his ouster in 2008, is taking issue with a new book about Washington Mutual....
658 2012-06-21 He is Jack, a fledgling architect — played, speaking of overdetermination, by Jesse Eisenberg — who lives with his kindhearted, somewhat bland girlfriend, Sally (Greta Gerwig), in a cozy apartment in the Trastevere section of Rome. One day Sally’s friend Monica (Ellen Page) shows up for a visit, and she turns out to be a high-strung, pretentious, neurotic actress who ... O.K., fine. No spoilers here, but no points for guessing right, either.

Jack’s ordeal is witnessed by an older architect, John (Alec Baldwin), whose (ahem) ontological status is in some doubt. He may be some kind of ghost, or else Jack may be a specter of John’s younger self ruefully projected onto the streets that were his former stamping grounds.

One of the most delightful things about “To Rome With Love” is how casually it blends the plausible and the surreal, and how unabashedly it revels in pure silliness. The plots, which are cut together in no special order, obey different time schemes: Antonio and Milly’s marital drama (which involves a prostitute played by Penélope Cruz, and a movie star played by Antonio Albanese) seems to occupy a single afternoon, while other strands stretch over weeks and months. They rarely intersect, forming a shuffled, syncopated anthology, a variation on the multi-director omnibus films that were a staple of Italian cinema in the 1950s and ’60s.

There was nothing especially French about “Midnight in Paris,” Marion Cotillard and Léa Seydoux notwithstanding. And though Mr. Allen is lionized as an auteur in France (almost as much as Clint Eastwood and Jerry Lewis), that country’s film tradition has not significantly informed his own work. While nothing matches his worship of Ingmar Bergman, Italian movies of various types — high and low, comic and tragic, kitschy and classic — have fed his imagination in ways obvious and implicit. (The closest thing he has done to a remake, “Small Time Crooks,” was based on the 1958 caper “Big Deal on Madonna Street,” directed by Mario Monicelli.)

“To Rome With Love” — a fairly generic title that reportedly replaced the more evocative “Bop Decameron” and “Nero Fiddled” — is full of affection for the motley patchwork of Italian culture. The soundtrack includes famous operatic passages and old-style romantic ballads, but also the kind of cheesy, synthetic pop that can, like some of the nation’s television productions, make a visitor wonder about Italy’s reputation for impeccable aesthetic judgment. And while we’re on that subject, Mr. Allen makes room for Roberto Benigni, who some of us might have hoped would vanish forever after the 1999 Academy Awards broadcast.

But Mr. Benigni, a gifted clown, is quite endearing as an ordinary, middle-class Roman plunged arbitrarily into a swirl of media celebrity, hounded by paparazzi (a species born and named in the Rome of “La Dolce Vita”) and breathlessly interviewed on talk shows.

His adventures are a blithe, surreal fable, a riff on themes Mr. Allen pursued with more aggression in “Celebrity.” Here Mr. Allen is happy to dabble in ridiculousness, which he pushes to a nearly sublime level in the tale of Giancarlo (Fabio Armiliato), Hayley’s prospective father-in-law, who possesses a marvelous singing voice (Mr. Armiliato is a world-famous operatic tenor in real life) that is subject to certain limitations.

The limitations of “To Rome With Love,” as frothy as the milk atop a cappuccino, are finally inseparable from its delights. Some of the scenes feel rushed and haphazardly constructed, and the dialogue frequently sounds overwritten and under-rehearsed. But this may just be to say that we are watching late-period Woody Allen. Complaining would be as superfluous — though also, perhaps, as inevitable — as psychoanalysis.

“To Rome With Love” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). Many sexual hints are dropped, but very little clothing is shed.
659 2012-06-21 The Bharatiya Janata Party named former speaker, Purno Sangma, as their presidential candidate despite opposition from allies....
660 2012-06-21 UBS muzzles President Obama's favorite banker. | Beating the heat while battering the environment. | Ann Curry navigates the turbulence of morning television.
661 2012-06-21 Our lessons are on summer vacation, but here are all the lessons in reading, writing and culture we published this school year....
662 2012-06-21 For more than a decade, the Magnum photographer John Vink has been documenting forced evictions in Cambodia, embedding himself, as our colleague Seth Mydans writes, "on the front lines of Cambodia's most intense modern-day conflict, a primordial b...
663 2012-06-21 At least 11 animals at the Lake Superior Zoo in Duluth drowned when severe storms caused major flooding in northeastern Minnesota on Wednesday. Much of the zoo was under water, and firefighters and police officers were dispatched to help round up a polar bear and two seals that escaped from their exhibits.
664 2012-06-21 Susan Tyrrell, a whiskey-voiced character actress whose talent for playing the downtrodden, outré and grotesque led to an Oscar nomination for best supporting actress in the 1972 John Huston film “Fat City,” died on Saturday at her home in Austin, Tex. She was 67.

The cause was probably a heart attack, said Amy Sweet, Ms. Tyrrell’s niece.

Ms. Tyrrell’s professional acting career began in 1963, when, as a teenager, she played the title role in a 1963 summer stock production of the comedy “Time Out for Ginger” opposite Art Carney. But playing an ingénue didn’t suit her, Ms. Tyrrell (pronounced turr-EL) told The New York Times in 1972. “I don’t like ingénue people,” she said, “and I don’t like to see them in the movies. I like people with heart and soul, and character work is soul.”

So she dived into Off Broadway character parts, appearing in productions like “Until the Monkey Comes.” She was also seen on Broadway in Abe Burrows’s comedy “Cactus Flower.” Ms. Tyrrell’s social set reflected her love of individuality and eccentricity; Candy Darling, the drag queen star of Andy Warhol films, became a mentor. (Ms. Tyrrell later had an important role in Mr. Warhol’s campy film “Bad.”)

Ms. Tyrrell’s most famous part was as Oma, the boozy love interest of the aging boxer Tully, played by Stacy Keach, in “Fat City.” Reviewing the film in The Times, Vincent Canby described Ms. Tyrrell as “one of the first believable drunks I’ve ever seen on screen.”

She went on to play a variety of off-kilter parts, including Queen Doris of the Sixth Dimension in the bizarre 1980s Richard Elfman musical “Forbidden Zone”; Midge Montana, a circus owner’s wife, in the poorly received second Pee-wee Herman feature, “Big Top Pee-wee” (1988); and Ramona Rickettes, the grandmother of the sensitive juvenile delinquent played by Johnny Depp, in John Waters’s musical parody “Cry-Baby” (1990).

Susan Jillian Creamer was born in San Francisco on March 18, 1945. Her father, John Belding Creamer, was an agent for William Morris, and her mother, the former Gillian Tyrrell, was a British socialite.
665 2012-06-21 Lin, who became a breakout star this season, is poised to cash in on his newfound fame. He will be a restricted free agent as of July 1 and is expected to command more than $5 million a year in his next contract. The Knicks have the right to match any offer Lin receives, and team officials have said they intend to do so.

The free-agent negotiating period opens at midnight July 1, although deals cannot be consummated until July 11.

Lin’s family has been unhappy with his marketing and has been seeking a larger firm to handle it. Montgomery runs a relatively small agency, with only a handful of N.B.A. clients.

Lin, who was little known when the season started, became an overnight global sensation in February, when he seized the Knicks’ point guard job and promptly led them on a seven-game winning streak filled with 20-point games and clutch shots. In his 26 games as an everyday player, Lin averaged 18.5 points and 7.7 assists.

Lin was undrafted out of Harvard in 2010 and was cut by two teams in December before the Knicks claimed him. The son of Taiwanese immigrants, he is the only current Asian-American player in the N.B.A.

Tanner joined Williams & Connolly in 1997 and worked under Lon Babby, a partner at the firm who was building a practice representing professional basketball players. In 2010, Babby left the firm to become president of the Phoenix Suns.

The firm, which was started in 1967, is mainly known for its litigation prowess and its insider credentials in Washington. It represented Oliver North in the Iran-contra scandal and President Bill Clinton during his impeachment trial.

But the firm has also carved out a niche representing talent across the entertainment industry, and it is now representing Ann Curry as she negotiates her possible exit as a co-host of NBC’s “Today” show.

It is an unusual line of work for a corporate law firm, but Williams & Connolly has always had an iconoclastic streak. While other elite Washington firms grew into global mega-firms, Williams & Connolly, with 250 lawyers, has remained relatively small.

The firm has longstanding connections to the world of sports. Larry Lucchino, a former partner, is the Boston Red Sox’ chief executive. And Edward Bennett Williams, the firm’s founder, was the Baltimore Orioles’ owner and served as president of the Washington Redskins for 20 years.
666 2012-06-21 Two Tibetans set themselves on fire on Wednesday to protest Chinese rule and to call for the return of the exiled Dalai Lama, according to a report by Radio Free Asia. The Tibetans were identified as Tenzin Khedup, 24, a former monk, and Ngawang Norphel, 22. The self-immolations occurred in the Yushu Prefecture of Qinghai, a Chinese province that is traditionally the northeastern Tibetan area of Amdo. The burnings occurred in the town of Dzatoe, known in Chinese as Zaduo. The report, which cited a monk in India who came from the Yushu area, said that Tenzin Khedup died at the scene and that Ngawang Norphel was badly burned.
667 2012-06-21 Consolidated Edison said that it had about 1,000 power failures in the city and Westchester County on Wednesday, most of which had been restored, and that it had begun to reduce the voltage in the system to prepare for the demand expected on Thursday.

“Tomorrow will definitely exceed today’s,” said Michael Clendenin, a spokesman for Con Ed.

The last time the temperature broke 90 in New York was in August, as part of a heat wave that claimed at least 31 lives in the city. (The heat spell at the end of last month came close, topping out at 89 degrees.)

In a news conference at a senior center in the Bronx, Mr. Bloomberg focused on ways to prevent heat-related illness and warned that the conditions could be “very dangerous.”

“It’s crucial that all New Yorkers take the necessary precautions to protect themselves and their families from the heat,” he said.

The city’s public pools will not open until June 28, the day after school ends. But many educators indicated that they were prepared for the heat, with 9 of 16 schools contacted on Wednesday saying they had already altered their normal routines.

Employees at several elementary and middle schools said they were keeping students inside for recess and encouraging them to stay in air-conditioned areas. Others said they were giving students extra water breaks or even, in one case, free fruit ices.

Maria Resto, secretary at Middle School 45 in Manhattan, said that students were not allowed to go outside for recess and that a planned field trip to Central Park was canceled because of the heat.

At Public School 110 in the Bronx, Melva Morton, an intervention counselor, said that because only half of the building had air-conditioning, teachers in the uncooled half were propping their doors open.

Not that the children noticed.

“For some reason, the children don’t feel the heat,” Ms. Morton said. “We’re the ones that are sweltering. The kids are running around like you wouldn’t believe. Some of us said, ‘Maybe we shouldn’t let you outside,’ but they said, ‘No, we want to go outside!’ To them, it’s like a regular day.”
668 2012-06-21 Grube said he used at least four of his eight sponsors’ exemptions for fledging professionals and highly regarded amateurs. He has plenty of options. It is the time of year when collegians graduate (or forgo eligibility), turn pro and accept as many sponsor’s exemptions as possible (a maximum of seven). Here at the tournament outside Hartford is where Stewart Cink, David Duval and Justin Leonard made his tour debut. Each later won a major title.

Patrick Cantlay, the 2011 United States Amateur runner-up, hopes to be the latest to follow. Cantlay, who is 20 and the world’s top-ranked amateur, announced June 19 that he would forgo his final two years of eligibility at U.C.L.A. He will make his debut here Thursday.

Last year, Cantlay shot a 10-under-par 60 in the second round of the Travelers Championship, the lowest score recorded by an amateur in a PGA Tour event. Few doubt that Cantlay is ready to make the jump to the tour. He has competed in seven events — including three majors — and made the cut six times.

“For me, it was a combination of being comfortable with being a professional and taking it to the next level and timing,” Cantlay said about his decision to turn pro. “I think this timing makes sense for me, being able to start somewhere where I’m comfortable and I have good memories. And I feel ready and comfortable with being a pro and trying to be as good as I can be.”

Cantlay is bidding to join Bud Cauley in one of golf’s most exclusive clubs. Cauley, who played the Travelers Championship on a sponsor’s exemption last year, became the eighth player to earn playing privileges out of college without going to the PGA Tour qualifying school. In eight tour starts, he earned $735,150 and finished the equivalent of 116th on the 2011 money list.

Cantlay said he was scheduled to play on sponsors’ exemptions in the AT&T National at Congressional Country Club next week and the Greenbrier Classic at the Old White T.P.C. in White Sulphur Springs, W.Va., the week after that. (Cantlay used one of his seven exemptions to compete in the Northern Trust Open in February as an amateur.)

If he earns at least $411,943, or the equivalent of No. 150 on the 2011 money list, Cantlay would earn special temporary status and could accept unlimited sponsors’ invitations and make unlimited starts.

Why the rush to turn pro? Just ask John Peterson, the 2011 N.C.A.A. individual champion, who tied for fourth at the United States Open last weekend. He remained an amateur in hopes of being selected for the 2011 Walker Cup team. He was overlooked, and when he flunked out of Q-School in the second stage he became a man without a tour. His advice?

“I would turn pro as soon as possible,” he said. “I proved that last year. You have to strike when you’re hot.”

One player who is choosing to go that route is Corbin Mills, the reigning amateur Public Links champion. He told Golfweek magazine June 11 that he intended to turn professional this year, forgoing his senior season at Clemson.

Several collegians, including the United States Open low amateur, Jordan Spieth, are expected to compete as amateurs at the Q-School this fall. In 2002, the United States Golf Association amended the rules to allow amateurs to compete at the Q-School without losing their amateur status.

There is good reason for the increased urgency to earn tour privileges. Beginning in 2013, players no longer will earn their tour cards via Q-School. The annual qualifying tournament will continue with four stages for thousands of dreamers, but the graduates will earn cards for the Nationwide Tour, golf’s equivalent of Class AAA baseball.

The PGA Tour approved the changes in March, but some details remain unresolved, including the system to determine the 50 tour cards. The new qualifying system is on the agenda for the tour’s board meeting scheduled for June 25, said the tour’s chief of tournament operations, Andy Pazder.

Cantlay expressed no qualms about his undertaking.

“If you’re good enough to be a pro, you’re going to be a pro pretty quickly,” he said.

In addition to Cantlay, Grube’s young stars hoping to parlay a sponsor’s invitation include Kelly Kraft, the reigning United States amateur champion; Bryden Macpherson, the reigning British Amateur champion; and the Stanford sophomore Patrick Rodgers.

Grube said he received more than 60 requests for a sponsor’s exemption, many of them handwritten. Peterson, who received a sponsor’s invitation Monday to the Frys.com Open in October, wrote every tournament director before the start of the season.

“It took forever, but it was completely worth it,” Peterson said. “I’ll go back to the tournaments that gave me a start,” like the Mayakoba Golf Classic in Playa del Carmen, Mexico.

“I’ll go to Mexico, no matter what I’m ranked in the world.”
669 2012-06-21 Prices here have not fallen since September — a good sign, but not yet a sign of a booming real estate market, analysts said.

In Las Vegas, another city crushed by the burst of the housing bubble, the market hit its bottom in March. But while there has been an increase in sales and construction activity since, home values have been slower to rise.

And in Atlanta, another city hit hard by the economic downturn, the situation is worse today than it was a year ago because of a stubbornly high number of foreclosures.

When all is taken into account, the picture evokes caution: the overall value of homes in 20 metropolitan regions tracked by Standard & Poor’s Case-Shiller index remained unchanged, and prices are still sitting at their lowest point.

“Because of new buyers having difficulty getting mortgages and because of the still-large number of foreclosures hitting the market in some parts of the country, it’s hard to say that we’ve turned a corner,” David Blitzer, chairman of the index committee at Standard & Poor’s, said in an interview.

Even in Phoenix and its suburbs, the rebound in house prices has been uneven.

Home values are still declining in the areas that were least affected by foreclosures during the recession, like upscale Cave Creek and Fountain Hills on the metropolitan area’s northeast rim, according to Professor Orr’s report. They have risen most acutely in places hardest hit by foreclosures, for instance west side suburbs like Glendale and Tolleson.

Christopher J. Mayer, a professor of real estate at Columbia Business School, said the price increase happened because foreclosed homes, which were usually among the cheapest, were no longer widely available. In the Phoenix area alone, the number of distressed homes on the market fell by 81 percent in the year ended in April, and the number of foreclosures fell by 62 percent, the report showed.

New home construction has picked up, though, as builders try to replenish the market, targeting not the small investors who are still looking to buy cheap homes they can fix and flip or turn into rentals, but first-time homebuyers and expanding families who are trying to enter the game before prices get too high for them.

Some of those builders, however, have temporarily closed sales offices because they cannot build enough homes to fulfill the demand. Others have been rushing to buy land.

Jordan Rose, a lawyer in neighboring Scottsdale who represents builders buying large parcels for development, said her law firm had handled 70 percent more transactions so far this year than during any other period over the previous four years.

One of the state’s most prolific builders, Maracay Homes, bought 13 pieces of land for development over the past 30 months in Phoenix and Tucson, where homes have been rising at a fast clip. As of June 1, the company had sold as many homes — 242 — as it did in all of last year, its president, Andy Warren, said.

Over all, builders have on average a two-and-a-half-month supply of new homes in their subdivisions.

“There’s certainly a trajectory of recovery,” Mr. Warren said, “but it might be a couple of years until we get there.”

The low inventory has fueled bidding wars again. A foreclosed house in the suburb of Chandler, bought for $225,000 in 2006 and listed by the bank for $57,420 last month, got 84 offers — and the offers stopped coming only because the bank stopped accepting them. (A note to brokers on the listing reads, “NO MORE OFFERS.”) The sale was pending as of Monday.

On a recent Thursday, Jesse Pekarek, a broker with HomeSmart who has been selling homes in the area for almost nine years, was inspecting the cosmetic repairs he had asked a homeowner to make — a fresh coat of paint, new tiles — before putting the house up for sale.

The home — single-family with three bedrooms and two baths in the city of Mesa, just east of here — went on the market the following Saturday for $135,000.

By Sunday, it was already under contract, after the homeowner received multiple offers above the asking price, Mr. Pekarek said.

“Homes don’t necessarily have to have all the bells and whistles,” he said. “If they’re priced accordingly, and if they’re in a nice neighborhood, they’ll sell in the first few days, if not within hours.”
670 2012-06-21 It is rare, then, for an enterprise that successful to simply shrivel up and disappear, no matter how harsh the scrutiny. As Randy Cross, a retired offensive lineman turned television analyst, said, “Contact sports will go away when we completely roll over and go toes up as a people.”

Still, whether it is because of the rule changes by Pop Warner, the legal precautions likely to be taken in the wake of a lawsuit brought against the N.F.L. by thousands of former players or the comments from a plain-spoken figure like Bradshaw, there is a growing sentiment among those who love the sport and those who loathe it that football has come to a critical juncture.

The question now is what exactly it will look like in the years to come and how much football can evolve while still preserving the integrity of the game.

Football is an inherently physical game with little chance of ever fully eradicating the risk of injury. But it seems to have little choice but to adapt. And in certain ways, it has.

The last year slashed the number of full-contact practices teams can hold. The N.F.L. has stiffened penalties for hits to the head, moved kickoffs up 5 yards last season in an attempt to reduce the violent collisions that can occur on the play and in December instituted a policy requiring an independent trainer to attend each game to aid in identifying .

No one disputes that more change is in the offing, but the scope of that evolution has emerged as a divisive issue.

Coakley said he agreed with Bradshaw’s assessment, adding that if more high-profile football figures speak publicly about the dangers of playing the sport, their words will give parents “cultural permission” to forbid their children to participate.

, a -winning quarterback who sustained multiple concussions in his career, expressed ambivalence about whether he would allow his children to play football. Even the father of quarterback — perhaps the N.F.L.’s most prominent player — said recently that he was not sure he would have allowed his son to play when he was young if he had known the possible long-term health risks.

“Football is resting on this foundation of parental and cultural and masculinity-issued support that could be pushed to the background once people start to realize that taking the chance of brain damage isn’t worth proving that you’re a particular kind of man,” Coakley said. “We’re beginning to see the erosion of that support.”

Cross championed several changes — in equipment, in philosophy, in rules — that he said he thought would improve player safety. And he suggested expanding active N.F.L. rosters, now at 53 players. Such a move, Cross said, would offer a safeguard to teams that lose players to concussions for several weeks and give them more flexibility when replacing those who were hurt.

He also advocated flag football as a worthy substitute for young players, who can learn rules and fundamentals in a controlled environment where the risk of would be significantly diminished. He deflected the concern that children who start playing late are at a disadvantage, saying that talent is the ultimate determining factor.

“I think it’s too hard of a game on the body to be played when you’re extremely young,” said Cross, who did not start playing until ninth grade. “There’s plenty of ways to get exercise without risking not only head injuries, but the accompanying orthopedic problems that come with playing football.”

The impact of football on the brain has been illuminated by studies that have connected on-field collisions to cognitive damage, as well as the presence of a degenerative disease in several players that is caused by persistent neurological trauma.

For some, however, concussion science remains inconclusive. Tim Green, a former N.F.L. defensive lineman who said he stopped counting concussions after he sustained his 10th, said he did not take lightly the dangers associated with football but wanted to see a stronger link between football and head trauma before pushing for more regulation.

“I remember 10 years ago, there was a grave concern about cellphones causing brain , and honestly, I think this may be that kind of syndrome,” said Green, who is a lawyer. “It kind of makes sense. It seems like it’s scary, but when they studied it, they found no correlation. Maybe it isn’t that great of a risk. Or, if it is a risk, we’ll go into it knowingly, just like when we ride a or go into an automobile.”

Green favors what he called “simple and benign” changes, including an emphasis on coaching players not to lead with their heads and for linemen in particular to use their hands more. He said he might eventually support the idea that linemen would be prohibited from beginning plays with one or two hands on the ground, stances that boost their leverage against opposing players and, in turn, increase the potential for blows to the head.

A provision in the N.F.L.’s new collective bargaining agreement, which limited the number of practices conducted in pads during the regular season, followed the Ivy League’s decision last July to hold two full-contact practices every week during the season; the allows five.

At the college level, football is dealing with other matters in addition to the issue of head injuries. College football is enormously popular, but the huge amounts of television money involved with the sport have driven a recent frenzy of conference realignment that has struck some observers as deeply cynical. There have also been a number of scandals in recent years, including the sexual abuse case at , prompting criticism that some football programs had become more powerful than the universities they were connected with.

When it came to player safety, Tom Beckett, ’s athletic director, said he could envision other conferences taking “a hard look” at limiting the contact in high-collision sports. He did not anticipate colleges dropping football for that reason, however.

“It was proven to us that this was a procedure, a step, that would mitigate some of the issues associated with full contact,” Beckett said. “We took that step, and we’re pleased that we did so.”

The Ivy League’s decision did not surprise Gary Fencik, a former safety who, while watching practice at Yale, his alma mater, two summers ago, was struck by the amount of contact. Fencik was a Bears teammate of Dave Duerson, who, before killing himself in February 2011 with a gunshot to the chest, sent text messages to his family requesting that his brain be examined for damage.

Fencik called Duerson’s death “a game-changer” in how he viewed the issue.

“I’m asking my former teammates, ‘How many concussions do you remember having?’ and it’s no longer a joke,” said Fencik, who was knocked out of a game with a concussion after colliding with Earl Campbell and estimated that he sustained several more during his 12 years in the N.F.L. “It’s really a serious discussion and a secret fear that I think all of us feel. We’ve accepted the knees and the other ailments, but we really never thought about the deterioration of your brains as a result of concussions in football.”

Coakley, the sports sociologist, said he was curious whether a lawsuit filed by more than 2,000 former players against the N.F.L. and the helmet manufacturer Riddell alleging that they intentionally concealed information about the dangers of head trauma would be settled. If the suit goes to trial, he predicted, data that would be made public would prompt some parents to not allow their children to play football.

Michael McCann, the director of the Sports Law Institute at Vermont Law School, said the lawsuit could develop into a publicity nightmare for the N.F.L. if it went to trial, but that the league would be “insulated” from future litigation because of the increased awareness of concussion science. That understanding has, in turn, produced a greater potential for liability, but McCann projected that football would respond through contract law.

Entities from Pop Warner to high school could require parents to sign waivers preventing officials or the league itself from being sued. At the professional level, McCann said, standard player contracts could expressly preclude litigation over concussions or long-term neurological harm.

“If somebody in 1940 smokes a cigarette, that person had a much better claim against the tobacco industry for lung cancer than if you or I or anyone smokes a cigarette today,” McCann said. “We know that we’re assuming the risk.”
671 2012-06-21 However many bailouts have occurred, Ms. Schapiro is expected to strongly assert that the $2.5 trillion invested in money market funds remains vulnerable to losses that could threaten the entire financial system, according to her written testimony, which was released Wednesday.

Ms. Schapiro has been backing more changes that she says will strengthen the funds and make them less vulnerable, but she has apparently been unable to persuade a majority on the five-member commission to join her.

The proposed changes include requiring money market funds to use floating net asset values to report their performance, rather than the fixed $1 a share that they use now, or to require the funds to maintain a capital buffer to stabilize their values. Also being considered are restrictions or fees on investor withdrawals.

Similar proposals, which are fiercely opposed by the mutual fund industry’s primary trade group, the Investment Company Institute, were also outlined in an April report by a committee of the International Organization of Securities Commissions, of which the S.E.C. is a member.

But three S.E.C. commissioners quickly disavowed the report, in a statement that said it “does not reflect the views and input of a majority of the commission,” referring to the S.E.C. The statement was signed by two commissioners nominated by Republicans, Troy A. Paredes and Daniel M. Gallagher, and a third, Luis A. Aguilar, often a swing vote on commission proposals.

Paul Schott Stevens, president and chief executive of the Investment Company Institute, who is also scheduled to testify at the Senate committee hearing, said in an interview that his group recently surveyed institutional investors that are heavy users of money market funds.

“A vast majority of them said they will not use money funds any longer” if the S.E.C. sets a floating net asset value, he said. That and other proposals, like redemption restrictions, “are likely to spell the end of money market funds as we know them.”

The proposed changes to money market rules are a response to a September 2008 run on funds that was caused by heavy losses in the Reserve Primary Fund. The fund’s net asset value “broke the buck,” or fell below $1 a share. The losses were tied to securities issued by Lehman Brothers and held in the fund’s portfolio.

In a few days that September, investors, many of them large institutions, like pension funds, withdrew $300 billion from prime money market funds, roughly 14 percent of assets. The panic contributed to a virtual shutdown of the market for short-term debt issued by companies and municipalities.

In response to those losses, the S.E.C. in 2010 adopted rules that mandated liquidity requirements, improved credit standards and reduced maturities in portfolios. Those were tested last summer, as Congress haggled over raising the debt ceiling and investors worried about a possible downgrade of the nation’s credit rating.

Ms. Schapiro is expected to tell the committee that although only $100 billion was withdrawn from the funds in June 2011, shareholders retain the incentive to run for the exits.
672 2012-06-21 “It’s being in the wrong place in the economy, so the recovery is not trickling down to these workers,” Mr. Jones said.

Kevin Starkes, 53, who is black and lives in the South Bronx, said he had been trying for about 10 weeks to find work as an accountant.

“Employers are getting more for less,” said Mr. Starkes, who was at a Workforce1 Career Center in on Wednesday. “People who used to get a job with a bachelor’s degree now need a master’s. I just think that’s the state of the economy right now.”

Mr. Jones said he was also troubled by the inability of less-skilled and less-educated workers to find jobs for long periods. For example, he said, his agency, which provides services to poor and low-income New Yorkers, found that about half of the people holding jobs as security guards had bachelor’s degrees or had attended college. That was up from about 26 percent six years ago, he said.

“The wage didn’t go up,” Mr. Jones said. “This is a low-wage job. It pays $10 an hour with no .”

The dim prospects have caused the number of blacks in the city characterized by the Labor Department as “discouraged workers” — those who have given up looking for jobs after long-term unemployment — to triple since 2008, before the recession hit, the numbers show.

Four years ago, there were about the same number of discouraged blacks and whites in the city. But since then, the number of discouraged black workers has grown to almost 40,000, from about 13,000, while the number of discouraged whites increased to about 22,000, from about 12,000.

Latoya Ingram, 33, who lives in Harlem, said she had been looking for full-time work since 2009. In that time, she said, she had sent off more than 1,000 copies of her résumé.

Unlike some other unemployed New Yorkers interviewed, Ms. Ingram, who is black and earned a bachelor’s degree in marketing from in 2001, said she believed her race was a factor in her inability to land a job.

“I could be wrong, but I’ve had interviews, and they seem really, really interested,” she said.

“Then they see me in person and they’re not that interested,” added Ms. Ingram, who has been collecting $215 a week in unemployment benefits. “I think it’s a combination of being black and overweight: they think you are lazy.”

According to Dr. Parrott’s analysis of the federal data, fewer than half — 49.2 percent — of all black women of working age in the city had jobs in the year that ended in May. That was about the same rate for black men in the same period, as well as in the first four months of 2012.

That less-than-half measure in a statistic known as the employment-to-population ratio covers all black New Yorkers, whether they are seeking work or not. It is down from 55 percent in the 12 months that ended in May 2008, when the city’s economy was still in high gear, Dr. Parrott found. Nationally, about 53 percent of all blacks and 60 percent of whites are working.

Not all economists are convinced that blacks are lagging as far behind in the recovery as Dr. Parrott’s numbers indicate. But they agree that the most likely cause of any disparity is the type of businesses that are growing and those that are cutting back.

Frank Braconi, chief economist for the city comptroller’s office, pointed out that a lot of the job gains in the city had come in professional and business services, like law and accounting, fields in which blacks tended to be underrepresented.

“African-Americans in New York City basically inhabit the middle market in the labor force in terms of wages and education, not the low end,” Dr. Braconi said. “And the middle market has been weak.”

Dr. Braconi and other economists have been puzzling over the recent divergence in the results of the two surveys the Labor Department conducts each month. Employers have been reporting healthy increases to their payrolls all year, prompting some economists to call the current rate of hiring to be unprecedented and city officials to pronounce the local economy to be rebounding faster and stronger than the nation’s.

But the monthly surveys of city residents have produced a persistently high unemployment rate for the city. It rose to 9.7 percent in May, not far off the 10 percent level at which it peaked during the recession.

Wayne Nesmith, 45, a resident who is African-American, is already trying to head off unemployment when the financing runs out for his job as a clinical associate at the Lander Center for Educational Research of Touro College. He said he found the job market to be “pretty adverse,” even though he had a degree in economics from the and two master’s degrees.

“I definitely believe it is more adverse for African-Americans,” Mr. Nesmith said. But, he added, “You don’t give up, and you don’t give in.”
673 2012-06-21 ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — President Asif Ali Zardari has chosen a party stalwart, Makhdoom Shahabuddin, to replace the ousted prime minister, Pakistani news media reported late Wednesday.

Mr. Shahabuddin, who was serving as textiles minister when the Supreme Court dismissed Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani and broke up the cabinet on Tuesday, will file his nomination papers before the election commission on Thursday. Khurshid Shah, a senior leader of the governing Pakistan Peoples Party, said a special session of the National Assembly would be held Friday for a confirmation vote.

The nomination of Mr. Shahabuddin came after hours of negotiations between party officials and the other members of its governing coalition. Officials said he was Mr. Zardari’s first choice, but he faced mild resistance during a meeting at the president’s house on Wednesday afternoon.

Mr. Shahabuddin belongs to an influential family from the southern part of Punjab Province, which has been a stronghold of the Pakistan Peoples Party. He has held several positions, including deputy finance minister in the early 1990s. He was considered close to Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto.

The country’s economy, militants in the tribal badlands and troubled relations with the United States over reopening NATO supply lines would be among the issues facing him if he was confirmed. But he may face another challenge by the Supreme Court, which has been pushing the ruling government to reopen a Swiss corruption investigation against Mr. Zardari. Mr. Gilani’s refusal to do so led to contempt charges and his dismissal.

Most analysts expect Mr. Shahabuddin would fight such pressure, as Mr. Gilani did.

Raza Rumi, the policy director of the Jinnah Institute, a research group in Islamabad, said that the nomination of Mr. Shahabuddin indicated continuation of the governing party’s policies. “Mr. Shahabuddin is an experienced parliamentarian, but he will face a tough choice to balance loyalty to the president and deal with an assertive court and a restive opposition,” he said.
674 2012-06-21 The expected became a reality Wednesday as college football’s leaders announced that they will move forward with a four-team seeded playoff to decide the sport’s champion starting in 2014.

The decision effectively ends the controversial and polarizing Bowl Championship Series system, which began in 1998 as a way to match the sport’s top two teams in a title game.

The decision has been expected for months as conference commissioners conceded as early as January that the relentless controversy would prompt a change to a playoff-style format. The only step remaining, which appears to be a formality, is the presentation of their plan to the B.C.S. oversight committee in Washington on Tuesday.

But much like the B.C.S. was constantly steeped in controversy, the selection of a four-team playoff still appears destined to inflame the sport’s passionate fans. While the B.C.S. commissioners did not announce the details of how they would pick the teams for the four-team playoff, a source with direct knowledge of the decision said the plan is for a selection committee to “more than likely” pick the four best teams.

There will be a preference given to conference champions in the selection, but how much is yet to be determined. Strength of schedule will also be strongly considered. There have yet to be any discussions about how the finances will be split among the teams.

The selection committee will subject a sport steeped in regional biases to a different type of controversy, although one that will likely die down a bit now that there will be semifinal and final games. The two semifinal games are expected to be played within the bowl system and the national championship will be bid on like the Super Bowl.

In a joint statement, the 11 conference commissioners and the Notre Dame athletic director Jack Swarbrick said that they had reached a “consensus behind a four-team, seeded playoff, while recognizing that the presidents will certainly present their views, including a discussion of a Plus-One.”
675 2012-06-21 The British Open will be staged at Royal Troon in Scotland for the ninth time in 2016. The course last hosted the British Open in 2004, when Todd Hamilton beat Ernie Els in a playoff.
676 2012-06-21 The European Championships are taking place in Dublin and will end on Saturday.

In the open series 34 teams were divided into two sections and played a full round robin. The top nine in each group qualified for a second round robin, in which each team plays the nine from the other section, with the scores being added to those obtained in the first round robin. With seven matches to be played, Monaco led England by 13 victory points, with Germany trailing by another 2.5 victory points in third. The maximum a team can score in one match is 25 victory points.

The women’s and senior events are single round robins of 19 matches. In the women’s, with four rounds to be played, England led Turkey by 15 victory points, with France third another 5 victory points behind.

In the seniors, after 11 rounds, France led Germany by 6 victory points, with Denmark third 1.5 victory points behind second. (In Round 11 France crushed Denmark by 25 victory points to 2.)

Two of the pretournament favorites in the open series were the Netherlands, the reigning Bermuda Bowl world team champions, and Monaco. These teams met in Round 4.

The diagramed deal from this match caught my eye as one that is elementary for an expert pair but would cause trouble for the less experienced.
677 2012-06-21 Neither Fox News nor the White House is eager for a repeat of their bitter feud in 2009. That year, as the Tea Party began to coalesce as a major political movement, Fox hosts like Glenn Beck adopted a particularly aggressive posture toward the White House. The administration went as far as to say that it considered Fox News a part of the political opposition.

The two sides have managed a sort of détente lately. And after the White House raised objections to the Obama video, the network removed it from its Web site. (In an angry phone call, the White House press secretary, Jay Carney, told the network’s executive vice president for news, Michael Clemente, that even by “Fox & Friends” standards the video crossed the line, according to two Democrats who weren’t authorized to speak of the private conversation.) The news division at Fox has long tried to avoid having its reporters appear on the show whenever possible.

“Do we make mistakes? Absolutely,” said Bill Shine, executive vice president for programming at Fox News. “And when we make them we try to fix them, apologize for them, get out in front of them.”

Mr. Shine noted that the show falls under the network’s entertainment umbrella and does not pretend to be straight news. There are visits from Hooters waitresses on the “Let Freedom Wing” U.S.O. tour, debates about whether parents who give children large allowances create entitlement societies, and outrage-filled segments on the killing of bald eagles. It is a place where Occupy Wall Street protesters bang drums instead of looking for jobs, Transportation Security Administration agents willingly violate grandmothers and toddlers, and the “War on Christmas” never stands at a cease-fire.

Critics of the show include not just Democrats and comedy outlets like “Saturday Night Live,” but reporters, producers and executives at Fox. Ask them what they think privately, and they will often roll their eyes and mention some embarrassing mishap, like the time Steve Doocy, one of three hosts, insisted in 2007 that the president was raised Muslim. The folksy Mr. Doocy is joined by Brian Kilmeade, a wisecracking soccer coach, and Gretchen Carlson, the often-severe and incredulous voice of authority. (Ms. Carlson’s childhood baby sitter in Minnesota was Representative Michele Bachmann.)

“Fox & Friends” is one of the network’s most successful programs. Every weekday, starting at 6 a.m., an average of one million people tune in, far exceeding the combined audience of every other cable news show at the same time. And from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. it is the highest rated show on basic cable.

Democrats have been wary of going on “Fox & Friends” and often on Fox News in general, an absence that has posed a messaging problem for the party as attacks against it often go unanswered in front of the largest audience on cable news. Though the channel’s audience is largely Republican — 54 percent identify as Republican or Republican-leaning independents, according to Scarborough Research — nearly a quarter of its viewers are Democrats or lean Democratic. Nine percent are independents.

Obama officials say the last time they went on war footing with Fox News was a huge distraction that they want to avoid again. One senior Democrat, speaking anonymously to avoid angering the network, said, “There has been kind of a hate-hate less relationship with Fox and ‘Fox & Friends’ in particular.”

“The conventional wisdom among Democrats is: Why participate in their Kabuki theater?” said Anthony Weiner, the former New York congressman who was one of the few members of his party regularly to accept Fox News invitations. He said those who ignore the network make a mistake by passing up a loud and influential megaphone, one that has no equivalent in cable news.

“You can huff and puff about how outrageous it is,” Mr. Weiner added. “But they have millions and millions of people watching them. And you have to proceed under the assumption that at least some of those people are persuadable.”

Despite all the outrageousness there is a keen self-awareness inside the network about “Fox & Friends.” “We reflect who the audience is,” said Mr. Shine, offering a recent example. “We didn’t spend a lot of time discussing who won the Tony Awards.”

He added, “Our audience knows us, and we know them.”

Consider the background of Ms. Carlson, who is known for making light of her supposed ignorance. She has said during the program, for example, that she has had to Google the definition of words like ignoramus and czar.

Ms. Carlson, who was crowned Miss America in 1989, is no ignoramus. She plays the classical violin and graduated from Stanford with honors.
678 2012-06-21 The first is a microprocessor using fuzzy logic. Fuzzy logic is a mathematical concept developed in the 1960s and ’70s that tried to account for “degrees of truth,” as opposed to true/false outcomes. The idea got a lot of attention in the ensuing years as one of the underpinnings for artificial intelligence and even deconstructionist literary theory, but these days those who are not mathematicians or computer scientists mostly hear about it in the context of consumer products, like rice cookers.

With fuzzy logic, the Zojirushi’s microprocessor can analyze the cooking conditions in the rice cooker and make on-the-fly adjustments. If the rice is cooking too quickly or too slowly, the heating element can be adjusted. Other parameters can be tweaked for short-grain, sushi-grade rice or medium-grain brown rice.

The second bit of technology added to the Zojirushi is induction heating. There is no heating element to speak of; the whole bowl is the heating element. Using induction, the Zojirushi can provide even heat to the entire cooking area.

The last piece of tech is pressurized cooking. The Zojirushi uses pressure to cook rice at higher temperatures, which can make for fluffier rice, and fluffy rice is huge in rice-cooker land.

The end result? The Zojirushi made me feel as if I were an assistant to a great sushi chef. My rice came out perfect, every time. Nothing overcooked, nothing sticking. And thanks to the fuzzy logic, not only was my rice cooked perfectly, but the Zojirushi could keep it warm and soft for at least 24 hours. It’s a small pleasure, to be sure, but a pleasure nonetheless (and since I’m the parent of a baby and a 6-year-old, rice is a big deal in our house). It’s also a pleasure that can be had for far less than $400. While induction heating and pressurized cooking are nice, the main advantages of microprocessor-controlled cooking can be found in rice cookers by other manufacturers, like Panasonic’s SR-DE103, for around $100. Even Zojirushi makes a model that is priced near $100.

THERMOMETER The second product that is meant to bring the latest technology to the kitchen is iDevice’s iGrill, an $80 wireless thermometer that can link up with a smartphone to display cooking temperatures. In theory, this is mildly useful; roasts or pork shoulders can cook while you do other things around the house, and your smartphone will alert you when your food is approaching the target temperature.

But that is not terribly different from what a lot of standard remote thermometers can do, and they can cost as little as $20. The smartphone connects to iGrill through an iGrill app, which includes some added features like the ability to plot the food’s temperature change on a graph (which can then be downloaded as a PDF or Excel-ready file, though who really does that?). In my test, the app was clunky, and it was not always clear that I still had a connection to the probe inserted into my food.

For roughly the same money, I would rather have a Thermapen ($90), an instant-read thermometer that comes with a certification form verifying its accuracy to within a tenth of a degree. The Thermapen is simple to use — just unfold the probe and stick it into whatever you want to measure the temperature of — and is so accurate that I could see different temperature readings as the probe moved toward the center of my pork roast.

COFFEE MAKER The last product I tested was arguably the most extravagant. Actually, it isn’t even arguable; the Jura Impressa J9 is a $2,900 fully automatic coffee maker. Fully automatic means that water, coffee beans and milk go into various compartments of the J9 and the machine takes care of the rest. Select your drink and the J9 grinds (coffee snobs take note: it’s a proper conical-burr grinder), tamps and brews the coffee, while also heating or steaming milk, if that’s required.

A full-color display shows a variety of coffee drinks you can select. The machine periodically rinses itself, so all you have to do is empty the bin of coffee grounds and clean the drip tray.

It’s a magnificent machine that turns any owner into a barista. But let’s break this down for a second. The machine is $2,900. That $2,900 will buy you about 966 tall lattes at Starbucks. And that’s not counting coffee beans, milk or sugar. But who am I kidding? If you’re making these kinds of calculations, you’re probably not the person who is thinking about buying a $2,900 coffee maker. That person is probably trying to figure out if it will fit in the Gulfstream G550.
679 2012-06-21 In Oklahoma City, all of this seems to be regarded as one of those teachable moments young teams like the Thunder will come to appreciate (but probably only after winning a title of their own). In The Oklahoman, Michael Sherman writes, “The dues-paying organization known as the National Basketball Association is on the verge of crowning another champion forged in the furnace of finals disappointment and adversity.”

The Heat, says Berry Tramel in the same paper, have “history and momentum and Game 5 home-court advantage all on its side.”

Russell Westbrook of the Thunder committed a foul at an inopportune moment Tuesday night, but no one is blaming him for the loss, not after he scored 43 points (James Harden, on the other hand ...). No one is saying the call was bad either.

Officiating is, however, getting considerable heat from Tuesday’s England-Ukraine Euro 2012 game. The Ukraine goal that was ruled not a goal? Everyone says it was a goal.

“How many match officials does it take to get a call right?” James Tyler writes at ESPN. (It didn’t take long after the game for FIFA’s president, Sepp Blatter, to take to Twitter and say that goal-line technology “is no longer an alternative but a necessity.”)

Still, no matter how the victory was achieved, Raphael Honigstein at Sports Illustrated cannot help but like England: “As a result of its almost masochistic setup — England needs to suffer in order to create the space for the forwards at the end of the pitch — [Manager Roy] Hodgson’s team has provided plenty of entertainment. Purists won’t be impressed, but England supporters raised on a diet of misplaced hype can revel in the doggedness of their players.”

In baseball, people are still marveling at the year the Mets’ knuckleball pitcher, R. A. Dickey, is having (“We wouldn’t be nearly as amazed by this if he were a classical ace in the classical sense,” Mike Vaccaro writes in The New York Post) and trying to figure out the lessons of the courtroom victory of the former pitcher Roger Clemens this week.

In The Chicago Sun-Times, Rick Morrissey writes: “We Americans can live with a little cheating, but it drives us crazy when it’s flaunted. We don’t like being smirked at as if we’re rubes. That’s what [Lance] Armstrong and Clemens are doing, again and again, in the face of allegation after allegation. They’re smirking.”

But Charles P. Pierce at Grantland says he has some advice for “the antidrug snoops” who are pursuing Armstrong: Don’t.

He explains: “Understand that, dammit, science marches on and that, someday very soon, someone’s going to invent a P.E.D. that works very well without even the hint of harmful side effect with which everyone can justify their moral outrage when they lose their, well, stuff in the public prints. Where do we go then? Do we argue that it is simply a priori immoral to use any drug to make your performance better when we long ago made peace with the fact that you can inject yourself with nine kinds of painkillers to make your performance possible? The horse has been out of the barn on that argument for more than 50 years.”

The trial of Jerry Sandusky, the former Penn State assistant football coach accused of being a serial pedophile, also has prompted considerable commentary this week. Rick Reilly, writing at ESPN, says it is a trial that never should have happened.

Eight alleged victims “had to testify because Jerry Sandusky didn’t have the guts or the courage or the decency to cop a plea and go to jail,” he writes.

“If Sandusky really did abuse them the first time, then this was the second.”
680 2012-06-21 For years, U.S., European and Japanese companies have been building up blue-collar and back-office operations and representative offices in places like mainland China, Hong Kong and Singapore. Now top-level executives are joining them, increasing the amount of quality time they spend in those areas.

Take General Electric, the U.S. corporate powerhouse whose products include medical equipment, turbines and locomotives.

Last year, John Rice, vice chairman of G.E. and president and chief executive of global growth and operations for the company, relocated with his wife to Hong Kong.

The move was “part substance and part symbolism,” Mr. Rice said in an interview at his Hong Kong office. “Being outside the United States makes you smarter about global issues. It lets you see the world through a different lens.”

Mr. Rice had traveled to Asia many times and visited China for the first time in 1989.

“I’ve come to China close to 100 times,” he said, “but I’ve learned more about China in the last 18 months than I did in the preceding 20 years.”

Michael Andrew, who took over as global chairman of KPMG International last October, echoed that sentiment.

“By being here, you demonstrate that you are not just an Anglo-Saxon firm — it is a visible demonstration of your commitment to the region,” said Mr. Andrew, who chose to base himself in Hong Kong.

Given the amount of traveling he does, Mr. Andrew spends only about 25 percent to 30 percent of his time in the city.

Still, even that means “you become part of the fabric here,” he said. “You have regular access to key business leaders, and you are able to talk to them as one of them, rather than as someone who is just passing through.”

Another example: Schneider Electric, a French engineering company that derives more than a quarter of its sales from Asia, recently announced that two senior executives would move to Hong Kong. That increases to four the number of managers based in Hong Kong who report directly to the chief executive, Jean-Pascal Tricoire.

Mr. Tricoire remains based in Paris, though he spends so much time travelling in Asia that his family has moved to Hong Kong to spend more time with him.

Surveys conducted by the Economist Corporate Network show just how rapidly the trend toward more Asia-based management has accelerated in recent years.

In 2008, just 19 percent of non-Asian multinational companies surveyed had one or more board members living and working in Asia.

By last year, that figure had reached nearly 30 percent. What is more, 45.3 percent of the respondents in the 2011 survey expected to have board members in the region by 2016.

Not so long ago, said Ross O’Brien, director of the Economist Corporate Network’s Hong Kong office, the trend was about moving manufacturing to where the growth was.

Now, “it’s about globalizing your brand and your thinking,” Mr. O’Brien said.

“It’s hard to make a decision to invest when you are based in a region where belt-tightening is the order of the day,” he added, so being in Asia helps focus a company’s thinking on the region’s potential.

Hong Kong is not the only beneficiary of the trend.

Singapore, too, has attracted an expanding flock of top-level managers and divisional headquarters as companies seek to capitalize on the city-state’s highly educated work force. And while Hong Kong is seen as the gateway to mainland China, Singapore is an ideal stepping stone for Southeast Asia and India.

Abbas Hussain, who oversees emerging-markets operations at the British pharmaceutical giant GlaxoSmithKline, is based in the city, as is Deb Henretta, a member of the senior management team at Procter & Gamble.

And this month, Goldman Sachs announced it had rehired Mark Schwartz to serve as chairman of its Asia-Pacific region and as a vice chairman of the overall bank. Mr. Schwartz will be based in Beijing.

At the other end of the spectrum, many top executives, rather than making Asia their home, are simply travelling to the region more frequently.

And in March, Goldman Sachs, in a nod to India’s growing importance, held a board meeting in New Delhi for the first time.

Starwood, the U.S. hotel company, went one step further: for a month last year, the senior management team based itself in Shanghai, a 12-hour time difference from Starwood’s headquarters in Stamford, Connecticut.

The 15-member team was already relatively international. The majority of the group is not American, Frits van Paasschen, the Starwood chief executive, said by phone from Stamford. Moreover, two members are based in the Asia-Pacific region, one in Europe and one in Latin America.

Still, the temporary move allowed the team to immerse itself in the local culture and meet staff members and business partners in the region face to face. That sharpened management’s understanding of how the Chinese market differs from that in the United States.

“We realized, for example, that in China many people book hotel rooms at the last minute, and on mobile devices,” Mr. van Paasschen said.

The monthlong relocation, Mr. van Paasschen said, was “both more strenuous and more useful than I had imagined.”

But clearly, the usefulness outweighed the strain, because Starwood is planning to repeat the exercise next year — this time in Dubai, another important market for the company.
681 2012-06-21 JUST as many people want to spruce up for their summer holidays, three specialty spas have opened in New York.

Two graduates of the New York University College of Dentistry observed that people don’t like dentists’ offices and decided to open a drill-free “dental spa.” Specializing in cleaning ($89) and whitening ($295 to $395), Lavaan, a minimalist light-filled space in Greenwich Village with a flat-screen television in front of each chair, also sells dental products like wine wipes (who knew?) and toothpaste for sensitive teeth.

The nail polish brand Essie has opened its first salon on the Upper East Side. Tucked into Samuel Shriqui, a hair salon on East 65th Street, the luxurious space features 250 Essie shades on a recessed backlighted wall, and love seats upholstered with some of Essie’s trendier colors. There’s a garden out back for drying nails alfresco. Manicures start at $32.

Gotham Skincare, a medical spa that opened earlier this year on West 57th Street, offers treatments like LED light therapy ($45), eye revitalizers ($25) and chemical peels ($200). Other procedures include wrinkle treatments like Dysport ($400 to $500) and dermal fillers like Juvéderm ($800). For those in a hurry, there’s a 30-minute “epidermal repair” facial ($75).
682 2012-06-21 Jittergram is a nifty free app that helps you make and share simple stop-motion animations using an iPhone. It's pretty easy to use, but not so easy that it couldn't benefit from some instructions.     The app was built in a weekend for Photo Hack...
683 2012-06-22 In a nondescript warehouse in Milpitas, Calif., there's an unlikely incubator for table tennis talent. This video by California Is a Place offers an intimate glimpse into the center that trained three of the four youth athletes that will represent...
684 2012-06-22 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. Friday's selection includes Carly Fiorina's plans for paying her leftover campaign debts and Radiolab's mobile app....
685 2012-06-22 Google is bowing to criticism and defections and cutting the prices it charges for heavy use of its maps by Web sites. The price of a million downloads a day will fall to less than $500 from almost $4,000....
686 2012-06-22 June 22, 2012 — Colorado’s governor talks about the economic impact of battling wildfires.
687 2012-06-22 Fearing that a strong Swiss franc would be disastrous for its exporters, Switzerland said last summer that it would not allow the euro to be worth less than 1.20 francs. That meant keeping Swiss interest rates at just above zero while buying euros to keep the franc from falling. That caused the country’s foreign exchange reserves to soar, but its exports are still declining. Meanwhile, low interest rates have led to increases in home values that alarm the Swiss central bank.
688 2012-06-22 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
689 2012-06-22 Drivers of the 200 experienced stalling, while the Explorer was prone to loss of power steering, owners told the safety agency....
690 2012-06-22 Linda Hirshman discusses her new book, "Victory."...
691 2012-06-22 Generating revenue along with the buzz.
692 2012-06-22 Ratings agency deals a blow to 15 major banks. | The Georgia town that took its public services private. | Colorado's governor on the economic toll of battling wildfires.
693 2012-06-22 "Approaching Abstraction," an art exhibition in New York City showcases Indian art of the 1960s and '70s....
694 2012-06-22 Byron Mullens of the Bobcats will miss the Olympics because of an injury, depriving host Britain of one of its three N.B.A. players. Ben Gordon and Luol Deng are the other N.B.A. players on the squad.
695 2012-06-22 Yet another app that was exclusive to Apple's mobile devices is expanding to Google's Android platform and elsewhere. What's unusual about the company behind this app, Flipboard, is that it was co-founded by a former Apple employee who worked on t...
696 2012-06-22 Over the past few days, has published several terrifying reports about ’s system of halfway houses — privately run adjuncts to the regular system of prisons. The series is a model of investigative reporting, which everyone should read. But it should also be seen in context. The horrors described are part of a broader pattern in which essential functions of government are being both privatized and degraded.

First of all, about those halfway houses: In 2010, , the state’s governor — who has close personal ties to Community Education Centers, the largest operator of these facilities, and who once worked as a lobbyist for the firm — described the company’s operations as “representing the very best of the human spirit.” But The Times’s reports instead portray something closer to hell on earth — an understaffed, poorly run system, with a demoralized work force, from which the most dangerous individuals often escape to wreak havoc, while relatively mild offenders face terror and abuse at the hands of other inmates.

It’s a terrible story. But, as I said, you really need to see it in the broader context of a nationwide drive on the part of America’s right to privatize government functions, very much including the operation of prisons. What’s behind this drive?

You might be tempted to say that it reflects conservative belief in the magic of the marketplace, in the superiority of free-market competition over government planning. And that’s certainly the way right-wing politicians like to frame the issue.

But if you think about it even for a minute, you realize that the one thing the companies that make up the prison-industrial complex — companies like Community Education or the private-prison giant — are definitely not doing is competing in a free market. They are, instead, living off government contracts. There isn’t any market here, and there is, therefore, no reason to expect any magical gains in efficiency.

And, sure enough, despite many promises that prison privatization will lead to big cost savings, such savings — as a comprehensive study by the Bureau of Justice Assistance, part of the , concluded — “have simply not materialized.” To the extent that private prison operators do manage to save money, they do so through “reductions in staffing patterns, fringe benefits, and other labor-related costs.”
697 2012-06-22 The New Mexico Racing Commission voted unanimously Thursday to limit the use of drugs in the state’s horse racing industry and to impose tougher penalties on those who run afoul of its drug rules.

The vote followed a public hearing last month at which every segment of the racing industry, including jockeys, horsemen, breeders and track managers, spoke in favor of the new rules.

“I can’t recall one person saying this is not a good idea for New Mexico,” said Robert M. Doughty III, chairman of the racing commission.

The state’s decision to adopt the new rules, among the toughest in the nation, was spurred largely by an investigative report in The New York Times in March, said Vince Mares, the commission’s executive director. The Times, using racing data and regulatory records, found New Mexico’s horse racing industry had the worst safety record in the nation and that frequent drug violators escaped punishment.

“I’m just glad that the commission chose to go in the direction that we are,” Mares said. The state also recently joined a national association that monitors drug violators.
698 2012-06-22 To Mr. Rangel’s friends, his four decades’ worth of relationships in Congress are an asset that his rivals cannot match, and they guarantee a flow of federal funds to the district.

“Seniority, seniority, seniority matters,” Inez Dickens, a city councilwoman from Harlem and one of Mr. Rangel’s most passionate backers, said at the birthday party.

“When I went to the City Council as a freshman,” she added, to underline her point, “they didn’t tell me where the bathroom was!”

But to Mr. Rangel’s challengers, 42 years is long enough.

“It is time for a change” has been the campaign mantra of Mr. Espaillat, who once noted that when Mr. Rangel was first elected, man had only recently walked on the moon, “Joe Namath was throwing touchdown passes for the Jets, and Nixon was president.”

Mr. Espaillat has argued that new leadership is needed not only to bring new energy, but also to reflect how the demographics of the district have changed, through waves of immigration as well as redistricting. Once a center of black political power, the district is now majority Latino, and extends from East Harlem to the northwest Bronx. Mr. Espaillat, who was born in the Dominican Republic, would be the first Dominican-American congressman, a fact that has excited many of his backers.

Basil A. Smikle Jr., a political consultant who is not working for any of the candidates, said that Mr. Rangel was typical of his generation of Harlem leaders in being reluctant to relinquish power.

“I don’t think the older generation was very good at leaving — at perpetuating their legacy through a younger generation,” Mr. Smikle said of Mr. Rangel and his peers.

“In many of their minds,” he added, “black history stops with them.”

He said that the dramatic changes in Harlem in recent years — wealthy professionals have moved in, real estate prices have skyrocketed and fancy new stores and restaurants have opened — have sometimes exacerbated the tension between older residents, some of whom fought the battles of the civil rights movement, and a younger generation who reaped the benefits of their fights.

David Wasserman, an editor of The Cook Political Report, a publication that analyzes elections and campaigns, said that Mr. Rangel’s recent health problems had made his age a more significant factor in the race.

“His age would be less of an issue if there were not questions about his health, as well, and the question of whether he’s up to the job,” Mr. Wasserman said, adding that Mr. Rangel “hasn’t been able to run the full-schedule campaign that he might have been able to in years past.”

He noted that Mr. Rangel had often tried to make light of his age in recent years, joking, for instance, that he does not buy green bananas.

Mr. Rangel, however, still enjoys considerable support, both in New York City and from his colleagues in Washington, many of whom have contributed to his campaign. On Friday, Mr. Rangel will be endorsed by several Latino leaders, including Representative Luis V. Gutierrez of Chicago.

For some of Mr. Rangel’s supporters, the issue is not so much when he should retire, but whether he will be forced to. They want it to be his decision.

Mr. Koch, who was defeated in a bid for a fourth term as mayor, said that most politicians do not know when to leave the stage, calling that failing “regrettable, but understandable.”

In Mr. Rangel’s case, Mr. Koch said he thought this would probably be his last campaign, but added, “I want him to leave on his own and not be pushed out.”

Asked why he thought this would be Mr. Rangel’s last campaign, Mr. Koch said, “He’s tired, and I believe that the attacks upon him have taken their toll.” Although Mr. Rangel has not shared his plans with him, Mr. Koch said, “instinctively, I believe that this is his last hurrah, and I want him to go out proud.”
699 2012-06-22 On Sunday, Ronaldo scored the two goals against the Netherlands that gave Portugal the victory that put it in the quarterfinals. In Warsaw on Thursday, beneath the closed roof of Poland’s national stadium and with a crowd urging on the Czechs, it seemed to be Ronaldo against everybody.

At times, four opponents were trying to shackle him. The fans were against him because they desperately wanted the Czech Republic, the last of the Eastern European teams in the competition, to reach the semifinals.

The Czechs ran themselves to exhaustion, but they were an ordinary team against a better opponent.

Thursday’s game featured two moments of classic Ronaldo. The first, after 26 minutes, demonstrated the bodily power he possesses as he came hip to hip with the muscular defender Michal Kadlec. Ronaldo shrugged him to the turf and drew a splendid save from Cech, the Chelsea goalie who knows Ronaldo from his Manchester United days. Cech got off his line quickly and smothered Ronaldo’s shot with both hands.

That was the only save either goalkeeper made in the first 45 minutes, but as halftime neared Ronaldo applied more pressure. Raul Meireles picked out Ronaldo lurking between defenders in the penalty area. He took the pass down on his chest, then controlled it with one dab of his right foot as he turned too quickly for Kadlec to his right. Before David Limbersky could get within kicking distance to Ronaldo’s left, the Portuguese captain whipped a shot with his right foot. The shot was beyond Cech, but it cannoned off the post.

The coup de grâce came later. João Moutinho had sped down the right flank and delivered a cross high to the far post. Ronaldo rose, rippling with power and desire to get past the nearest defender. His forehead made perfect contact, driving the ball down into the grass and back up on the bounce, through the grasp of Cech.

Ronaldo has drawn fierce criticism over the years from those who say he is a diva who does not deliver. The results tell a different story. He has delivered for Manchester United and Real Madrid, and he is certainly delivering now for his country on one of his sport’s biggest stages.
700 2012-06-22 We applaud the Pop Warner youth football league for protecting the brains of young athletes by limiting full-speed collisions and other contact during practices (“Trying to Reduce Head Injuries, Youth Football Limits Practices,” front page, June 14). Protecting children from the cumulative effects of brain trauma demonstrates its commitment to the sport and benefits gained from physical activity, sportsmanship and leadership.

Comprehensive sports safety must go beyond concussions to include other medical emergencies like heat stroke and cardiac arrest that more frequently cause catastrophic injury or death.

While it is not realistic that the tens of thousands of youth teams and leagues employ an athletic trainer to cover every practice and game, it is realistic that municipal and private sports facilities do. If every swimming pool can have a lifeguard, every sports facility can have an athletic trainer to keep our children safely in the game.
701 2012-06-22 The answer is no. Stop-and-frisk cannot be fixed and should be ended.

Police reform advocates have no objections to officers stopping someone when they have reasonable suspicion that a person is carrying contraband, a weapon or drugs, or has engaged in or is about to engage in a crime. Such an intervention represents smart, reactive police work.

But that does not represent the New York Police Department’s stop-and-frisk program, which results in hundreds of thousands of suspicionless stops a year of mainly black and brown young men. It is a proactive, pre-emptive approach to law enforcement that may not be racial profiling in intent, but is marked by a stark racial bias in effect.

The Police Department should adopt a problem-solving, community policing approach to law enforcement. Perhaps then New Yorkers, especially the residents of low-income neighborhoods of color, will regard officers as protectors and not as individuals in uniform against whom they have to protect themselves.

As a nurse practitioner and a researcher working with the Harlem community, I know that men of color experience an increased prevalence of heart diseases, stroke, cancer and diabetes. Many causes contribute to these health disparities, but there is a growing body of research demonstrating that racial discrimination — perceived and actual — is a critical factor.

For example, the increased incidence of cardiovascular diseases has been recently linked to experiences with discrimination as published this year in The American Heart Journal, The American Journal of Public Health and Current Hypertension Reports.

I have grave concerns that stop-and-frisk may be undermining the health of the next generation of young men of color in our communities and across the country.
702 2012-06-22 Art has not always been made in the service of peace and good will. Natives of the New Guinea Highlands, for example, painted the curved surfaces of their oblong shields in bright colors and bold, geometric designs and used them to strike fear into the hearts of their enemies. A collective display of shields, amplified by shouting and movement, would shock and awe the opposition.

For the viewer of “Animated by Spirits: Shields of New Guinea” the shocking thing is how much like modern art they look. From the 19th and early 20th centuries, the shields have simple, symmetrical designs made up of circles, diamonds, triangles, radiating bands painted — and, over time, repainted — in vivid reds, ochers, blacks and whites with a direct, sensuous touch. These anonymous warrior-artisans instinctively understood something about maximizing aesthetic efficiency that the post-Renaissance West took centuries to appreciate.

Shield makers of New Guinea’s coastal areas, also represented in the exhibition, were more interested in carving than in painting and more into symbolic magic than purely visual impact. A 73-inch-tall specimen made in West Papua in the early 20th century is covered by a lively filigree standing out in relief against the chiseled background that abstractly pictures flying foxes and herons. As absorbing as it is to look at, it does not elicit the sense of uncanny familiarity that the painted shields do. The shield painters employed a visual language that seems immediately understandable, one that 20th-century Western Modernists have used for their own spiritual warfare.
703 2012-06-22 Ravilious specialized in charmingly skewed scenery, somewhat in the vein of the Austrian-born illustrator Ludwig Bemelmans. Ravilious also prolifically designed posters, furniture, textiles, ceramics and glassware, for clients as prominent as Wedgwood and London Transport. He has become something of a cult figure during the past decade.

“People either have never heard of him or are completely besotted,” Mr. Dawson said. “There seems to be nothing in between.”

Mr. Russell said, “There are people who have literally tracked down every place he visited.”

Rumor long had it that the “White Horse” drawings were stashed in Ravilious’s belongings on his R.A.F. missions; he served as an official war artist, documenting pilots at work and the landscapes below. He died off the coast of Iceland, and the wreckage has never been found.

But the book proposal was actually left behind with his London publisher. A colleague, Roland Collins, long owned it without realizing anyone was searching for it and then consigned it to Sworders. The museum plans to publish a fleshed-out version of the book, with speculations on what Ravilious would have painted. “It can’t be a re-creation,” Mr. Dawson said. “There’s not enough information.”

The artist has been the subject of half a dozen recent scholarly studies. This fall the Mainstone Press will publish Mr. Russell’s book about Ravilious’s World War II scenes of submarines drifting and surfacing.

Garryowen, a Montana hamlet with a handful of full-time residents but throngs of tourists, has been on and off the market for years. It adjoins Little Bighorn Battlefield National Monument, and the hamlet’s owner, Chris Kortlander, runs the Custer Battlefield Museum alongside a restaurant, a gas station, a post office and a 1920s tomb of an unknown soldier from George Armstrong Custer’s troops.

Auctions of the property, with estimates of $7 million, have been announced a few times, but the deals have fallen through. On Aug. 15 Williams & Williams, a real estate auction house in Tulsa, Okla., will offer Garryowen along with an archive with thousands of items that belonged to Custer’s wife, Elizabeth, nicknamed Libbie. No estimate is being disclosed, and through Aug. 15 the auction house is fielding offers for the archive from buyers who could pre-empt the sale.

Mr. Kortlander bought Garryowen in 1994 and acquired the Libbie Custer papers a decade later. (Her descendants owned them until the 1970s, and then a private collector stored them.) Mrs. Custer recorded the identities of her husband’s mistresses and transcribed interviews with Buffalo Bill Cody, who had scalped an American Indian to avenge Custer’s death.

Scholars have had little access to Mrs. Custer’s documents. “I really haven’t let anybody in through the collection,” Mr. Kortlander said in a recent phone interview. The new owner will not be obligated to keep the papers together.

Nathaniel Philbrick, the author of “The Last Stand: Custer, Sitting Bull, and the Battle of the Little Bighorn” (Viking), said in a recent phone interview that her writings were legendarily mysterious. He added, “Who knows what’s in there that could reinvent the game of Custer scholarship?”

Family health problems have prompted the August auction, Mr. Kortlander said. The Custer museum collection is not part of the sale (it is a separate nonprofit entity); he is the museum’s director. He is currently embroiled in legal proceedings over museum objects that federal officials investigated to determine whether they were looted from American Indians and contained feathers from endangered birds. Mr. Kortlander, who is suing to have the seized pieces returned, described the investigation as “federal law run amok.”

Jessica Fehr, a representative of the United States attorney’s office in Billings, Mont., wrote in an e-mail that no criminal charges had been filed and that a settlement conference for the civil issues was scheduled for later this month.

Debra Buchholtz, a historian and the author of a new book, “The Battle of the Greasy Grass/Little Bighorn: Custer’s Last Stand in Memory, History, and Popular Culture” (Routledge), said in a phone interview that the Kortlander sales could mean that the material ends up overseas.

“There’s no end of Custer interest, especially in Europe and Japan,” she said.
704 2012-06-22 A few of the show’s artists, generally those who have spent significant periods of time outside India, are attached to some major Western movements. Two of them, Zarina Hashmi and Nasreen Mohamedi, are fairly well known Minimalists; it’s not surprising to learn that Ms. Mohamedi studied art in London in the 1950s, and Ms. Hashmi has been living in New York since the late ’70s.

Ms. Mohamedi’s drawings on graph paper work against the grid, with slanted lines of various weights and lengths. Ms. Hashmi’s white-on-white relief prints, threaded with silk cord, aren’t as abstract. But they create a kind of loop in which paper and string become endlessly self-referential. One work looks like an envelope, another like a spool.

Few of the show’s artists seem, at least on the surface, to engage Indian culture or spirituality. One exception might be the paintings of G. R. Santosh and Biren De, both identified as “neo-tantra” by a wall label: luminous, interlocked forms signifying the union of male and female, whether in clusters of embryonic cells or barely abstracted images of coitus.

To judge from this show, Indian modernism looks most “modern” when it takes the form of film, specifically the films made in the late 1960s, when the national Films Division of India and private foundations gave grants to select Indian painters. Three of the artists — M. F. Husain, Akbar Padamsee and Tyeb Mehta — are each represented at the Rubin by a painting and a short film. Generally the films outshine the paintings, though prolific artists like Husain are not well served by a single canvas.

Mr. Padamsee’s 1964 painting “Untitled (Bird in Landscape),” with its deadeningly repetitive use of the palette knife, does not excite. But his animated film “Syzygy” (1968-69), made with the help of a fellowship from an Indian foundation, finds an enlightened middle ground between math and art. As tightly constructed as a proof, it first lays out Mr. Padamsee’s principles of abstraction in a sequence of graphs and charts and then furnishes numerous examples in the form of elegant, Mondrianesque line drawings.

Line has a different function in a painting by Mr. Mehta, part of a late-1960s series in which strong diagonals cut across the canvas and through flattened figures in an explicit reference to Partition. It’s a dynamic, unsettling work, and Mr. Mehta’s film “Koodal” is even better; with its cows headed for slaughter, crowds massing at Gandhi’s funeral, and the gyrations of a self-flagellating dancer, it will leave you off-balance.

M. F. Husain (1915-2011), one of the most celebrated modern Indian artists, has a more lighthearted way with film in “Through the Eyes of a Painter,” which won a Golden Bear Award when it was presented at the Berlin Film Festival in 1968.

It opens with Husain, brush in hand, introducing the film as a set of “unrelated moving visuals juxtaposed to create a total form, a total poetic form, very integrated.” The camera then darts impulsively through the Rajasthani landscape, taking in palatial architecture, river bathers, schoolchildren and curiosities like an open umbrella marooned on a rocky cliff.

The film is a peripatetic experience in a similarly peripatetic show, which could have benefited from some more historical context. As it is, you’ll need to venture into the reading room or consult the timeline on the Rubin’s Web site.

“Radical Terrain,” the third installment in the museum’s series, centers on the post-independence landscape and is due in November. Unlike the first two shows it will include some contemporary artists who are not of Indian descent.

In the meantime this show argues for a comprehensive look at Indian modernism (as opposed to just surveys of Indian contemporary art, which seem to have proliferated along with talk of emerging markets). Such an undertaking might include more film and more history, and a little less Western art jargon.
705 2012-06-22 BEIJING — Ai Weiwei, the Chinese rebel artist, said Thursday that his one-year probation had ended but that the police had told him he could not leave China because of continuing investigations.

Mr. Ai said the probation, which followed his release last June from 81 days of detention overseen by the Beijing police, ended Thursday morning with a handshake between him and an officer at a police station in Beijing. Mr. Ai said that in theory he could now travel outside the capital.

His supporters said Mr. Ai had been detained for political reasons: he is one of the most vocal critics of the Communist Party.

“They told me they had lifted the probation because I had behaved well all year,” he said in a telephone interview as he was dining at a restaurant in Beijing’s Sanlitun neighborhood. “It really surprised me because I violated almost every rule they imposed.”

Before Mr. Ai was released from detention last year, the police said he had to refrain from talking to foreign journalists and could not use Twitter. But Mr. Ai regularly talks to journalists and uses Twitter daily.
706 2012-06-22 PARIS — Washington gained another victory on Thursday in its push to extend surveillance over Americans’ financial dealings when Switzerland joined the list of countries that have agreed to cooperate in an initiative to track down tax cheats overseas.

The two governments said in a joint statement that they would work “to ensure the effective, efficient and proper implementation” of the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, known as Fatca, a 2010 law meant to expose Americans’ hidden assets. The law requires essentially all foreign financial institutions to open their books to the Internal Revenue Service or face a penalty on United States-based income.

While the details are still being discussed, the deal calls for Swiss banks to transfer American client data directly to the I.R.S. in a way that allows the banks to honor the spirit of Switzerland’s banking laws. The agency will be able to combine that data with information gleaned through the use of the countries’ existing bilateral tax treaty, as necessary.

In return, Switzerland won provisions that will make compliance easier for pension funds and smaller institutions.

“The core element of the solution is that the necessary exchange of data will be made directly with the U.S. tax authorities,” the Swiss Bankers Association said in a statement. “This better takes into account the particular characteristics of the Swiss financial center.”
707 2012-06-22 The main reason all this makes sense now is that the emerging technology of hydraulic fracturing, or “fracking,” has produced an abundance of natural gas, driving down prices.

A few decades ago, it was taken for granted that, in the long run, the fact that natural gas was less polluting would lead to it costing more than oil on an energy-equivalent basis. Perhaps natural gas should cost 120 percent as much as oil, we thought then.

But the natural gas market is a North American one, because there is little capacity to export gas, while the oil market is a global one. With the current natural gas glut, the American price is less than 20 percent of the price of oil.

There is nothing new about the idea of widespread use of natural gas vehicles. “In 1975,” recalled Frank Zarb, who was then President Gerald R. Ford’s energy czar, “I thought there would be a fight between the electric car and the natural gas car.”

Nor is there anything new about the government trying to stimulate the market. The Energy Policy Act of 1992 mandated that some fleets buy natural gas vehicles. But then the world entered a prolonged period of relatively cheap oil — the average price was less than $19 a barrel from the end of 1992 through 1998 — and both politicians and citizens stopped worrying much about it.

But natural gas vehicles never went away. While some local fleets that had bought such vehicles as a result of the 1992 law got rid of them, others did not. A substantial part of the market for city buses and garbage trucks is now filled by natural gas vehicles. The nature of the business is that those vehicles travel limited routes and can return to their bases — and to a refueling station — each night.

All told, there are about 130,000 natural gas vehicles in the United States, about 1 percent of the worldwide total of 13 million vehicles, according to Kathryn Clay, the executive director of the Drive Natural Gas Initiative, a project financed by natural gas producers and pipelines.

Not many vehicles are aimed at consumers. Honda has a natural gas version of the Civic, initially sold only to fleets that already had natural gas terminals. Since 2005, the car has been available to retail customers.

In Europe, numerous bifuel vehicles can use either natural gas or gasoline, much as hybrid cars can use either gasoline or electricity, but they are only starting to arrive here. American car companies have announced plans to sell bifuel pickup trucks, but the market for them will primarily be companies with their own refueling infrastructure.

That is kind of amazing. Imagine if gasoline vehicles were sold only to those who could afford to build and operate their own gas station.

It is a measure of how far away from government action we have come that no one seems to be pushing for the government to step up and directly provide the spark for getting an infrastructure in place that would enable Americans to use much more of the natural gas that has become abundant, and therefore much less of the oil that must be imported at high prices.

Instead, the natural gas industry supported a bill that would have offered tax credits to those who invested in the infrastructure as well as those who made the vehicles and those who bought them. It was opposed by the chemical industry, which uses a lot of natural gas and wants to keep it cheap. The bill got 51 votes in the Senate, but these days it needs 60 to do anything.

There are already big tax subsidies for electric cars, so a case can be made for the similar treatment of natural gas vehicles. But given how cheap natural gas is, it might be far cheaper for the government to provide direct subsidies to get the infrastructure going, rather than provide ongoing subsidies via tax credits.

Two kinds of natural gas are used by vehicles. Smaller vehicles use compressed natural gas, while big trucks use liquefied natural gas. The infrastructure would need to support both forms.

Christopher R. Knittel, a professor of energy economics at M.I.T., says he thinks the government should take several steps to promote the use of natural gas in vehicles. One step would be to encourage local natural gas utilities to open up their own stations to sell gas for vehicles. He would also like to encourage people to buy their own equipment to compress natural gas at home, using the gas already delivered through pipelines. Such equipment is available now, but few have bought it.

“Markets work when prices reflect the social cost of the products,” he said in an interview. “For a variety of reasons, the cost of gasoline now does not reflect all of those costs.” He pointed not only to the cost of pollution but to the risk to the economy from an oil-price shock and to the political dangers of being so dependent on Mideast oil.

“Recent advances in natural gas drilling as well as increases in oil prices appear to have made natural gas competitive with oil in the long run,” Mr. Knittel wrote in a paper released last week by the Brookings Institution. But, he added, “such a change in price may not be enough to cause the United States to substitute natural gas for oil in the transportation sector, even when it is socially beneficial to do so.”

If natural gas did become widely used in vehicles, a number of things would happen. Natural gas prices would rise, of course, which is why the natural gas industry is eager for that to happen.

That would offend the chemical industry, and might alarm homeowners who heat with natural gas. It would reduce the United States trade deficit and, by lowering the use of oil, put a damper on that market. Higher natural gas prices could also make other alternative fuels more likely to be economical, something that is hard to accomplish now with natural gas so cheap.

Natural gas prices are now so low that it is possible the market will develop without government help. A number of plans have been announced to build refueling stations near interstate highways, in hopes of attracting trucking companies that use those routes. But given the need for quick action — last year the United States spent $750 billion importing oil and oil products — it makes sense for the government to move to develop the natural gas transportation market as quickly as possible.

Some economists have trouble understanding why so little is happening in Washington. “I think a political leader who jumped on this issue would be very successful,” said James D. Hamilton, a professor at the University of California, San Diego, who has been pushing natural gas use in transportation on the Econbrowser blog.

In a different political environment, it would be an obvious policy proposal for a presidential candidate. But so far, it is an idea without visible political support.
708 2012-06-22 A note on Thursday from Goldman Sachs market strategists recommended a short position in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index after the Fed announcement.

“And we now think, with incremental U.S. monetary policy on hold, the market will need to confront a deteriorating growth picture near term,” it said.

As global economic data suggested a slowdown in crucial industries, commodity prices fell. Brent crude oil dipped below $90 a barrel, the first time it has done so since December 2010.

The Dow Jones industrial average fell 250.82 points, or 1.96 percent, to close at 12,573.57, its lowest level since June 1. The S.& P. 500 was down 30.18 points, or 2.23 percent, at 1,325.51, its lowest level this week. The Nasdaq composite index fell 71.36 points, or 2.44 percent, to 2,859.09.

“The economic data coming out of China and Europe are not very good,” Brian M. Youngberg, an energy analyst for Edward Jones, said. “You throw in the unemployment figures here not improving much. It is just raising concern the global economy is slowing down more than otherwise thought.”

“That is just crushing oil prices and energy stocks,” he added.

Energy and materials stocks led the losses in the broader equities market, falling 4 percent and 3.3 percent.

Considering the ample stocks, particularly in the United States, the markets were less concerned about supply constraints than they were about weak demand. Brent crude prices, which Mr. Youngberg said were a good gauge for the market’s outlook for the global economy, reflected the current thinking.

“Right now the sentiment has definitely gotten more pessimistic,” Mr. Youngberg said.

Financial companies were not spared. In Europe, an audit of Spanish banks showing that they would require more capital added to the bleak picture for the euro zone. During trading hours, expectations loomed that Moody’s Investors Service would announce credit ratings downgrades on 15 major banks. The S.& P. index that tracks financial stocks declined 2.3 percent.

Initial jobless claims were 387,000 in the week ending June 16, higher than forecasts and the 386,000 in the previous weekly count. Existing-home sales fell 1.5 percent in May. An index of factory activity reported by the Federal Reserve Bank in Philadelphia showed a deepening contraction in June, to a reading of minus 16.6 from minus 5.8 in May.

Mr. Hembre said the macroeconomic picture was not the primary source of market weakness, but it added to the deterioration after the Fed meeting.

“It is primarily a function of the run-up of the market into the Fed meeting yesterday, and the minimalist response on the part of the Fed,” Mr. Hembre said.

“You had the expectations of support, and they were timid, modest and disappointing,” he said. “Then you get these economic numbers that just blew out to the downside.”

Interest rates were lower as the uncertainty in other markets drove investors into the safety of fixed-income securities. The Treasury’s benchmark 10-year note rose 9/32, to 101 6/32, and the yield fell to 1.62 percent from 1.65 percent late Wednesday.
709 2012-06-22 10:33 p.m. | Updated  Already grappling with weak profits and global economic turmoil, 15 major banks were hit with credit downgrades on Thursday that could do more damage to their bottom lines and further unsettle equity markets.     The credit a...
710 2012-06-22 Nasdaq has blamed Facebook's botched debut last month on flawed computers and ''technical errors.''     Regulators suspect it may be something more. The Securities and Exchange Commission has opened an investigation into the exchange for its role ...
711 2012-06-22 In May of last year, Court Street in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn, was transported back in time for a few days.     Vintage yellow taxis lined the street, silver and blue street signs were superimposed over the existing green ones, and newspaper stan...
712 2012-06-23 “I can’t pitch like that,” he said. “I was just a tick off in that first inning, and it cost us the game.”

Pettitte regained his better stuff to hold the Mets scoreless over the ensuing five innings,  and the Yankees chipped away until they put the tying run on in the ninth against Francisco.

On Wednesday, Francisco said he could not wait to face the Yankees and called them chickens, all in one crisp inflammatory sentence.

“I make like simple comments, and I think a lot of guys take it the wrong way,” Francisco said after the game. “But I’d do it again just the same.”

Derek Jeter — always at the center of Subway Series games — came up in the ninth after Francisco had walked Raul Ibanez with one out and rapped a single to left. That hit brought Curtis Granderson to the plate with a chance to give the Yankees the lead.

But Francisco struck him out looking at a 95-mile-per-hour fastball right down the middle, and then he popped up Mark Teixeira to end the game. Jeter, never one to inflame a situation, said he wasn’t thinking about Francisco’s comments during his at-bat.

“The game’s not over until the last out,” Jeter said. “We had an opportunity, but he did his job and got out of it.”

The Yankees, who have hit seven home runs in the last two games and lost them both, dropped their third consecutive game. Alex Rodriguez and Andruw Jones hit solo home runs to shave the Mets’ lead to 5-2. The Mets tacked on a run on an R.B.I. double by David Wright in the seventh.

Facing a four-run deficit in the eighth, the Yankees cut that in half on a two-run shot by Robinson Cano, who hit a missile onto the Shea Bridge over the Mets’ bullpen in right-center field.

Davis’s home run in the first was not so definitive, but it was worth more. With the Mets already leading by 2-0, he turned a hanging cutter from Pettitte into a towering fly ball down the right-field line. Nick Swisher drifted back, and then a little farther back, before leaping at the wall. At the top of his jump the ball went into his glove, which was higher than the fence. But as he came down, his glove hit the wall, jarring the ball loose and sending it into the stands for a three-run homer as the Mets seized a 5-0 lead.

For Davis, who has struggled so badly that the Mets have considered sending him to the minors, it was his third home run and 15th run batted in over his last 12 games dating to June 9.

The Mets added what turned out to be a valuable insurance run off reliever Cory Wade in the seventh. Ronny Cedeno singled to center off Wade and scoring on the double that Wright lashed to the wall in left center. The Mets’ lead, built in the first, was back to a more comfortable level again.

The first inning was a horror show for Pettitte. The Mets sent 10 batters to the plate, and half of them scored.

Andres Torres led off with a walk, Cedeno singled up the middle and Scott Hairston walked to load the bases with one out. Lucas Duda hit a routine fly ball that was caught by Granderson in shallow center, and Pettitte needed only one more out to escape the inning untarnished.

But Justin Turner, who came into the at-bat with a .254 batting average, singled on a line drive to center, and two runs scored, with Hairston holding at second. Davis’s home run, whether aided by Swisher or not, gave the Mets all the runs they would need.

“I can’t start the game with walks,” Pettitte said. “I can’t walk the leadoff batter. I made a mistake to the No. 2 hitter and he got a hit. You try to navigate around it, and then you get two outs and they score five runs after that. I had a chance to get out of it, and I didn’t get it done. That’s frustrating.”The game began 53 minutes late because of rain, but Pettitte said the delay had nothing to do with his performance.

“The one really bad pitch was to Ike,” he said. “And that was it.”
713 2012-06-23 GDANSK, Poland (AP) — Germany reached the semifinals of the European Championships for a record seventh time by beating Greece, 4-2, on Friday in a match played amid the contentious political backdrop between the countries.

Philipp Lahm put Germany in the lead in the 39th minute as his team controlled nearly every facet of the game. Although Georgios Samaras equalized for Greece in the 55th, it was all Germany after that as Sami Khedira, Miroslav Klose and Marco Reus scored.

It was the 15th consecutive victory for Germany, dating to its win over Uruguay for third place at the 2010 World Cup.

The Germans will go for No. 16 against England or Italy in the semifinals on Thursday in Warsaw.

Although Germany dominated from the start, the Greek defense held strong for much of the first half. Lahm finally put his team in front by controlling the ball with his chest and dribbling toward the middle before sending a long-distance shot into the corner off the hand of Greece goalkeeper Michalis Sifakis.

“We couldn’t breathe and did very little with our chances and on set pieces,” Greece Coach Fernando Santos said. “The first goal made things very difficult for us, despite our good defensive effort.”

The Greeks looked better at the start of the second half, and equalized when Samaras knocked the ball past Germany goalkeeper Manuel Neuer after a perfect cross from Dimitris Salpigidis.
714 2012-06-23 Credit: John Gress for The New York Times
715 2012-06-23 New York lawmakers had little reason to celebrate the conclusion of this year’s legislative session on Thursday. Gov. Andrew Cuomo praised the Legislature effusively for its work, but he failed to mention how he and lawmakers created corrupt legislative districts that will remain for a decade — the worst political act of the session.

Despite plenty of promises, lawmakers also left Albany without accomplishing top legislative items.

¶First, and most important, they have done nothing to clean up the scandalous ways they raise campaign money. After repeatedly promising that he would push for this vital overhaul, Governor Cuomo has failed, so far, to reach any agreement with the Legislature on political spending. They did not scale back sky-high contribution limits allowed under state law. They did not put in place a system of public financing of campaigns or set up tough enforcement of campaign finance laws. They did not ban unlimited “housekeeping” donations to parties.

¶The Legislature failed to pass a crucial bill to increase the state minimum wage to $8.50 from $7.25, which would have increased pay for 880,000 workers. The bill passed the Assembly but died in the State Senate.

¶The State Senate majority leader, Dean Skelos, has tried to make a joke of Mr. Cuomo’s efforts to decriminalize public possession of small amounts marijuana. Possessing a small amount of marijuana in New York is a violation, unless the marijuana is shown in public, which can result in a misdemeanor and a criminal record. The problem, defense lawyers say, is that police officers sometimes induce people to empty their pockets, as a way of getting an arrest. Too many black and Hispanic youths, especially in New York City, have their lives permanently scarred because of unfair enforcement of the current law. It needs to be changed.

¶Even amid highly publicized child sex-abuse scandals, Mr. Cuomo and the Legislature could not reach agreement on a modest bill to require coaches involved in college sports programs to report abuse to law enforcement. Mr. Cuomo’s refusal to take the lead doomed a bill that would extend the state’s unfairly short statute of limitations for filing civil child sex-abuse claims and creation of a one-year window for previously barred claims. In New York, a victim of child sex abuse has only until age 23 to make a claim.

A few good measures were approved this year, like state employee pension reform and a real-time reporting system to curb abuse of addictive prescription drugs.
716 2012-06-23 Diane Derzis, who owns the clinic, has threatened to sue. But for now the doctors at the clinic have been applying to local hospitals for admission, a process that will almost certainly not be over by July 1. What will happen that week remains unclear. A spokeswoman for the State Department of Health said that even if state officials inspect the clinic early on the Monday morning of July 2, as they plan to do, the clinic would have 10 days to come up with a plan of compliance and “a reasonable amount of time” to put that plan into effect.

“It’s not like they don’t give them chances,” said Terri Herring, who is the president of the state chapter of the Pro Life America Network and has been lobbying the Mississippi Legislature for stricter regulations on abortion clinics for more than 25 years. “We’re dealing with a sacred cow,” she said.

But State Representative Sam Mims, the sponsor of the law, is determined that things will move faster this time.

In a June 20 letter, he asked the state health officer “to personally insure” that the law is fully enforced on July 2, and said his expectation was that any clinic not in compliance “must immediately cease performing abortions” until the requirements are met.

In a brief interview on Friday, Mr. Mims said that he was still discussing with legislative lawyers just how quickly the state was allowed to act.

For the clinic, it may simply be a matter of facing the threat of closing in either days or weeks, if the physicians are not granted admitting privileges. State officials are expecting a lawsuit if that happens.

Nine other states have local admitting requirements for abortion providers, according to the Guttmacher Institute, a research group focused on sexual and reproductive health and rights. But in none of those states did such a rule effectively end abortion, and that will be the crux of the legal fight. Mississippi political leaders have said the law is intended to safeguard the health of women, but they have not been circumspect about the larger goal.

“This is the only state where the proponents are this honest about what exactly their motivation is,” said Michelle Movahed, a lawyer with the Center for Reproductive Rights, which is representing the clinic.

One state legislator, Bubba Carpenter, was videotaped in May telling a gathering of Republicans that with the new law the Legislature had “literally stopped abortion in the state of Mississippi.”

Representative Mims said that the law does not outlaw abortion; the idea, he said, was to require physicians at the clinic to be able to follow their patients to a local hospital if complications arise. But, he added, “if this abortion clinic is closed, I think it’s a great day for Mississippi.”

Mississippi’s abortion rate is already low, in part because of the restrictions currently in place. But it is not surprising that this may be the first state to have no abortion clinic.

Some were shocked by the sound defeat of the so-called personhood amendment last year, which would have defined a fertilized human egg as a legal person, but here that defeat is generally attributed to concerns about the scope of that amendment, not some deep support for abortion rights that had gone undetected. The new law, after all, passed the Legislature with bipartisan support.

Mississippi is also the poorest state in the country and has the highest birth rate among teenagers, and the second-highest infant mortality rate, according to statistics compiled by the Kaiser Family Foundation. More than half of births here occur out of wedlock. Of the 2,297 women who had abortions in Mississippi in 2010, according to the State Department of Health, most were unmarried, most already had at least one child and more than three-quarters were black.

Dr. Parker, 49, who grew up in Birmingham, Ala., cites these demographics as one of the reasons he decided to come back to the South.

For the first dozen years of his medical career, working in California, Hawaii and Michigan, he did not perform or even allow himself to think too much about abortions. But eventually, he said, he encountered too many cases of women whose pregnancies endangered their health or who said they were too poor to raise a child.

“To know it is to become responsible,” said Dr. Parker, who later became the medical director at Planned Parenthood of Metropolitan Washington. He only recently started at the clinic but is planning to make monthly trips here, if the clinic does not go away. “I shudder to think of the consequences,” he said.

Outside the building, Professor Friedeman, 53, who teaches at a Jackson seminary and pastors a church nearby, stood on the hot sidewalk, offering pamphlets to the women, who came and went and mostly ignored him. He asked to pray with them, saying, “The Lord wants you to love that baby.”

A man walking by the clinic with his daughter told him, in coarse terms, to mind his own business. It did not faze Professor Friedeman much: he has been doing this for 12 years, first at a clinic across town, and more recently at this one, the last one.

“A praying man often asks for the impossible, and it can be a surprise when it happens,” he said, contemplating the end of his visits. “You get to where a part of this is a part of who you are.”
717 2012-06-23 The Transportation Department disagreed with Mr. Liu’s assessment. “The city has no additional exposure,” said Seth Solomonow, a department spokesman, “and we informed the comptroller of this before he put his stamp on the contract.”

The bike-share contract with Alta Bicycle Share protects the city from claims, Mr. Solomonow said, even those above the insured amount; the company has not faced claims so far over the bike-share programs it operates in Washington or Boston.

The city unveiled the program, which is sponsored by Citigroup and known as Citi Bike, after years of urging by bike groups. It will let riders rent bikes at one location and return them at another. A few other American cities, as well as Paris and cities in China, have similar programs.

The Transportation Department announced proposed locations last month for 420 stations in Manhattan, Downtown Brooklyn and a slice of Queens where the bicycles can be picked up and returned. Discussions are under way to add more.

The comptroller noted that there had been more than 100 bike-related claims filed against the city annually since 2002, with total settlement and judgment costs of about $3.6 million a year. Those payouts represent a small fraction of the roughly $500 million annually that plaintiffs in personal injury and property-damage suits against the city have collected in recent years.

In 2009, the city settled two large bike-related cases — one involving a cyclist killed by a Police Department tow truck in 2006, his office said — that pushed the total for that year to $11.5 million. More bikers would mean more claims, he said.

In addition to recommending that the city require Alta to increase its insurance coverage, Mr. Liu’s report will also call for the city to investigate all bike crashes resulting in serious injury, and to place five police officers trained in accident investigation in each precinct.

Now, 19 specialized detectives who cover the entire city investigate traffic accidents but only ones in which a person was killed or is likely to die.

New York’s program will be the country’s biggest and among the largest in the world.

When a program twice as large began five years ago in Paris, it got off to a bumpy start. Emmanuel de Lanversin, a French transportation specialist, said cycling accidents rose to their highest level in the program’s first year.

But, he said, the next year they fell to around the same number as before the program started.
718 2012-06-23 Stung by the many attacks on public employees, Mr. Saunders is eager to address some of the major points of contention between government officials and his union.

In the speech he gave Friday after he was sworn in as Afscme’s first new president in 31 years, he said he was forming a task force to study long-term solutions to the pension crisis that has prompted many states and cities, convinced that their plans are woefully underfunded, to push for cuts in pension benefits.

“We’ve got to really figure out how to deal with the attack on pensions,” Mr. Saunders said. “Our members are being hurt all across the country. We don’t have all the answers, but we want to help come up with solutions.”

In a fiercely fought contest, Mr. Saunders, who is the union’s first African-American president, defeated Danny Donohue, the president of the union’s largest local, the Civil Service Employees Association in New York. Late Thursday, the union announced that Mr. Saunders had received 683,628 votes (54 percent) to Mr. Donohue’s 582,358 (46 percent).

Mr. Saunders pledged to try to reunite his union after the divisive election campaign and to increase organizing efforts. By some estimates, membership has fallen by nearly 100,000, to 1.3 million, over the last year, largely because of government layoffs.

Pointing to the many furloughs and pay freezes his union’s members have agreed to, Mr. Saunders insisted it was wrong for critics to say that public sector workers have refused to share in the pain others have suffered during the downturn.

“When we enter into bargaining, our people understand that they don’t want to tear apart the community. They’re part of the community,” he said. “But we don’t want things shoved down our throats. We don’t want the collective bargaining process ignored.”

Mr. Saunders repeatedly praised his predecessor, Gerald McEntee, who transformed Afscme into one of the nation’s most politically influential unions. He did not indicate any plans to diverge from Mr. McEntee’s political program, which includes spending $100 million on this year’s campaigns. But he emphasized that he would run a more open and transparent union that engaged board members and other leaders more.

Mr. McEntee arguably became the leading political strategist for the labor movement from his position as chairman of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.’s political committee — a perch from which he played a major role in selecting Democratic presidential and Congressional candidates.

“I think Gerry McEntee has been a tremendous leader and he’s built a strong foundation,” Mr. Saunders said. “I’m not for tearing the foundation apart.”

Mr. McEntee said in an interview that he hoped Mr. Saunders would also lead the A.F.L.-C.I.O. committee because of Afscme’s major role in the federation — it is the biggest union in the A.F.L.-C.I.O. But other union presidents might also vie to head the political committee.

Mr. Saunders said it was vital to re-elect President Obama to help the nation’s labor unions and workers. “We’re going to work like hell for his campaign,” he said.

But he added that his union planned to make life difficult for not just Republicans but also Democrats who seek to roll back pensions or bargaining rights.

“We must hold politicians of all political stripes accountable,” Mr. Saunders told the delegates on Friday. “We don’t work for any political party. We work for justice and fairness in the workplace. If someone turns on us, it doesn’t matter whether you’re a Democrat or a Republican, we will take you on and take you out.”

Two prominent Democrats have already attracted his union’s ire — New York’s governor, Andrew M. Cuomo, and the mayor of San Jose, Calif., Chuck Reed — because they both led moves to reduce pensions. He also said Afscme would back several Republican state legislators in Florida because they had helped block Gov. Rick Scott’s plan to privatize prisons.

“We have a relationship with several moderate Republicans there,” he said. “They supported us, and we will support them.”
719 2012-06-23 “A lot of people, including myself, would have never thought even just a few short years ago that the relationship could deteriorate the way that it has,” said Janis A. Emmanouilidis, a senior analyst at the European Policy Center who is half-Greek and half-German. He cited the ties of migration and tourism and the regard Germany held for Greece as the cradle of democracy and Greece for Germany as a model of efficiency. “You have these reflexes, like defending oneself,” Mr. Emmanouilidis said.

Everyone from soccer experts to political analysts to fans cautioned that, in the end, the only thing on the line was the right to move on to the semifinals against the winner of the game between England and Italy. And for the most part, the mood before the game on Gdansk’s historic Dluga Street was peaceful and joyous.

Still, one middle-age Greek implored Germans in their own language, his voice quavering with anger, to stop teasing about pensions and poverty “before things escalate into violence.” A man in a German jersey rushed from the crowd and gave him a hug.

Outside the stadium after the game, which Greece lost handily to heavily favored Germany, a group of Greek men dressed as Olympians of myth clapped and sang, while one danced in the aisle. “We Greeks don’t have money, but we have a big heart,” said Christos Mistridis, 33. The dancer shushed him and said, as if sharing a secret, “Angela Merkel thinks we’re at work.”

The penalty kick that gave Greece its consolation goal near the end of the game was “a little present on top of the money we gave them,” said Hendrik Grote, who wore a German soccer jersey and lederhosen. “That’s enough now though.”

The tournament is held every four years, but this time around has been scrutinized from the very beginning through the kaleidoscope of the Continent’s crisis, with Twitter users, headline writers and barroom wits comparing the records of bailout countries to triple-A-rated ones with more than a hint of schadenfreude.

Portugal, which was forced to seek financial assistance, was the first country to qualify for the semifinals. The Netherlands, a soccer powerhouse with a sterling credit rating, lost all of its matches. But nothing quite compared to this match, between the major antagonists of the crisis, who have been trading barbs for more than two years.

Gdansk, with its intertwined Polish-German history and recent Communist past, is a fitting location to realize how far Europe has moved from the old cleavages of the cold war and East-West thinking. The new reality is a paradigm of a hard-money north led by Germany that is starkly at odds with a soft-money south, which would not be such a problem if they did not also share a currency and a central bank.

A mere eight years ago, Germans and Greeks alike celebrated Greece’s dark horse run to the title under a German coach, Otto Rehhagel, whom many took to calling “King Otto,” a reference to the Bavarian who became king of Greece in the 19th century. Greeks have made clear that they want Ms. Merkel as neither coach nor queen. Every time she appeared on the monitors in the stadium here cheering Germany on, the Greeks booed and whistled with gusto.

In Germany, there is frustration over what is perceived as insults in exchange for assistance. Nazi taunts at protests and in newspapers against the Germans, who invaded Greece during World War II, have not gone unnoticed in Berlin.

As for the game itself, enthusiasm and hope followed Greece’s equalizing goal to tie the score at one apiece. But Germany came back with three second-half goals before Greece managed a penalty kick at the end. The final score: 4 to 2.

In Berlin, fans waving the country’s flag packed sidewalk cafes and a mile-long outdoor site where the game was broadcast live in the shadow of the Brandenburg Gate.

“The Greeks were hungrier, but it was not enough,” said Sebastian Schmidt, who had staked out a table with his friends two hours before the game.

Across Athens, thousands watched the match on television in cafes and on large screens in squares festooned with Greek flags. In the working-class district of Kaisariani, near central Athens, Costas Kourountanos, 52, a car mechanic, was defiant to the end. “They make beer, and we drink it,” he said. “That’s why they don’t like us, because we know how to enjoy ourselves.”

But at a cafe in the more expensive Kolonaki district, fans were more resigned to defeat. “We missed a good opportunity to take friendly revenge on Germany,” said Yiorgos Fakanas, 50, a musician and composer. “There was a big symbolism in this game: Merkel has been pressing austerity on everyone. But all we could do is defend ourselves and keep our dignity.”

The disputes off the field, though, were little in evidence on the pitch.

“If you’re thinking about politics on the field,” Günter Netzer, a German soccer legend and commentator for German public television, said, “you’re in the wrong profession.”
720 2012-06-23 The newly insured were more likely to describe their health as good, and to say that their health was getting better, according to self-reported data that researchers are now combining with objective measurements for a deeper follow-up study. The uninsured reported being in worse physical and mental shape and were less likely to describe themselves as happy.

Getting insurance also had powerful financial effects, the study showed. The insured were 25 percent less likely to have an unpaid medical bill sent to a collection agency and 40 percent less likely to borrow money or skip paying other bills in order to cover their medical costs.

“I feel like a different person,” said John Bell, a stay-at-home father who won the insurance lottery. “I was pretty grumpy all the time before.”

Before winning the lottery, Mr. Bell filed for bankruptcy after emergency surgery to remove kidney stones left him with a $6,000 bill that he and his wife could not pay, he said. Today, Mr. Bell has a primary care physician who has encouraged him to lose weight and improve his diet to help control his diabetes.

The Oregon Health Study has won academic attention both because of the pedigree of the researchers — including Joseph P. Newhouse, who designed the renowned RAND Health Insurance Experiment in the 1970s, and Amy Finkelstein, the most recent winner of the John Bates Clark Medal, an economic prize considered second only to the Nobel — and the distinct nature of the state’s health-insurance lottery. By assigning coverage randomly, Oregon gave researchers more confidence that they had teased out the true effects of insurance, and had not been fooled by other differences between the insured and the uninsured.

“The study put to rest two incorrect arguments that persisted because of an absence of evidence,” said Katherine Baicker, a Harvard economist who worked on the study and served as an economic adviser to President George W. Bush.

“The first is that Medicaid doesn’t do anything for people, because it’s bad insurance or because the uninsured have other ways of getting care,” Ms. Baicker said. “The second is that Medicaid coverage saves money” by increasing preventive care, for instance.

“It’s up to society to determine whether it’s worth the cost,” she added.

Discussions with 17 insured and uninsured participants in the Oregon Health Study illuminated how coverage changed and did not change their lives. Many described poverty and its attending problems, not health care, as their major challenge. (The Affordable Care Act, President Obama’s health care law, requires states, in 2014, to extend Medicaid eligibility to all adults within 133 percent of the poverty line, which is currently $11,170 for a household of one and $23,050 for a household of four.) A handful said that they were not overly bothered by their lack of coverage, or that winning Medicaid had not had much of an effect.

But many, including Ms. Parris and Mr. Bell, said that Medicaid had made a significant — even transformative — difference in their lives.

Ms. Parris got surgery for her foot, and additional care. She is also getting spinal surgery. Doctors have helped her address her depression, triggered by the death of one of her children. Her weight has come back down, and her mobility is far better. “It saved my life,” she said.

Most of the uninsured described their lack of coverage as a profound problem.

For instance, a year ago, Samantha Kious, a hair stylist, went to Planned Parenthood to seek birth control medication to manage her polycystic ovary syndrome, a common hormonal imbalance.

Ms. Kious, 24, who also has depression and Crohn’s disease, a bowel condition, makes only $1,000 to $1,200 a month and cannot afford insurance. The clinic performed some tests and prescribed Ms. Kious the pills. But they also told her that she had Stage 2 cervical cancer. As of now, the condition remains untreated. She and her boyfriend even considered getting pregnant so that she would automatically qualify for Medicaid.

“It’s scary for me, having cancer and knowing I can’t do anything about it,” said Ms. Kious, her hair in an elaborate plait. “It’s an I-don’t-know-when-my-next-meal-will-be sort of thing. It’s really difficult because health problems make you scared and emotional.”

Interviews with study participants showed that the insured and the uninsured got health care in significantly different ways. Lottery winners tended to have a primary care physician who saw them regularly and helped them navigate the health care system. In contrast, few of the uninsured saw doctors regularly, and none said that they had regular health examinations.

Some sought care from free clinics or charity hospital programs. But they said it was difficult to know when and where such programs were available and sometimes how to use them. You might have to bring certain paperwork to prove your poverty, for instance. Child care could be a problem. You might show up on the wrong day.

“You’ve got to be clearheaded” to find free care, said Cynthia Robbins, 57, who is unemployed and won insurance. When she was uninsured she neglected the effects of her diabetes — including problems with circulation in her feet that resulted in the amputation of a toe. “When you’re in the middle of a crisis, you’re not going to be filling out forms.”

The uninsured described borrowing medication from family members and friends, taking it every other day, and asking doctors to diagnose multiple conditions and write multiple prescriptions on a single visit. The insured said they had largely abandoned such strategies.

Nearly all of the uninsured also described how avoiding doctors to save money resulted in trips to the emergency room. (Unnecessary or preventable emergency room use costs some $38 billion a year, researchers estimate.)

“I think the E.R. doctors now know me by name,” said Ms. Kious, the hairdresser. “But that’s the only thing you can do. You wait until you can’t bear it anymore.”

Study participants also described coverage as no magic bullet for a person living under or near the poverty line, but as something that tended to make life easier.

“It’s a weight off your shoulders, when you feel like you can go to the doctor like everybody else,” said Robin Baros, 51, who won insurance. “And when you have insurance, you feel healthier. You want to take care of yourself. You’ve got your regular visits that you can go to.”

Not having insurance “affects your whole life,” said Christine Toman, 61, who has a chronic pulmonary condition and hepatitis C and did not win coverage. “I went to work. I paid my bills. And now I feel like a hopeless, hopeless old woman that’s in the way, and it’s sad to feel like that. I’d like to die with some pride.”

Ms. Toman, in a husky voice and a soft wheeze as she labored to breathe, said that she occasionally goes to the emergency room when her conditions became acute. But she generally just forgoes care.
721 2012-06-23 A dispute between the N.B.A. and the players union over Jeremy Lin’s so-called Bird rights could spill into July, clouding the Knicks’ free-agency agenda and creating potential chaos for all parties.

An arbitrator on Friday ruled that Lin was entitled to his “early Bird” rights and thus eligible to re-sign with the Knicks without the use of other salary-cap exceptions. The ruling also applied to the Knicks’ Steve Novak who, like Lin, was claimed off waivers this season.

It was a victory for the union and, by extension, the Knicks, who stood to benefit from the added payroll flexibility. But the celebration was short-lived. The N.B.A. later announced that it would appeal the ruling — a process that could take days or weeks. Free agency opens July 1.

The league has 10 days to file its appeal. Once it does, league and union officials must agree to a three-member panel. A hearing would be held, and the panel would have up to 30 days to issue a decision.

In the meantime, the Knicks could be hamstrung by the uncertainty.

If Lin and Novak have their early-Bird rights, the Knicks could re-sign both players and save their midlevel exception (worth about $5 million) for another free agent. But if the Bird rights are lost, the Knicks would have to use the midlevel exception to keep Lin. They would very likely lose Novak, as well as any chance to lure a top-flight free agent, like Ray Allen or Steve Nash.

The union will push to have the dispute resolved by July 1, either through an expedited appeal or through a direct settlement with the N.B.A. It is unclear whether the league is open to settlement talks.
722 2012-06-23 IN the middle of the chaos and fear that is Europe today sits a country seemingly apart from it all.

Switzerland is surrounded by countries that use the embattled euro currency — France, Germany, Austria and Italy — but it has kept its own Swiss franc. To many in Europe, that currency has become an oasis of security, something that will remain stable whether or not the euro zone survives and prospers.

And therein lies the problem for Switzerland. All that foreign money coursing into Switzerland drove the value of the franc to record highs against the euro.

During the first 10 years of the euro’s existence, its value was always above 1.4 Swiss francs. But in 2010, amid turmoil over Greece’s problems, the euro fell to below 1.3 francs. Last summer, the euro fell almost to par with the franc.

That plunge was good news for Swiss consumers, who faced declining prices for many things, but horrible news for the country’s manufacturers, whose products were in danger of being priced out of world markets.

Slashing interest rates to zero did not keep the currency from gaining value, so in September the Swiss National Bank, the country’s central bank, announced that it would not allow the euro to trade for less than 1.2 francs.
723 2012-06-23 HONG KONG — Cambodia’s Foreign Ministry said Friday that the country had no plans to extradite to China or France a detained French architect with links to a disgraced Chinese politician and his wife, but that the architect was not yet being set free, either.

Kuy Kong, a spokesman for the Cambodian Foreign Ministry, said that he did not know how long the architect, Patrick Devillers, would be held, nor why he was being held.

Hor Nahong, Cambodia’s foreign minister, said late Thursday night that Mr. Devillers was still being investigated. The police in Cambodia’s capital, Phnom Penh, said earlier in the week that Mr. Devillers had been arrested about two weeks ago at China’s request. Chinese government offices were closed on Friday in observance of a national holiday, and the Chinese Foreign Ministry declined earlier in the week to comment on Mr. Devillers.

The French Embassy in Phnom Penh had no immediate comment.

Under Cambodia’s extradition agreement with China, the Chinese government has up to 60 days after Mr. Devillers’s detention to provide legal documents to support any extradition request. The agreement, one of only a handful that Cambodia has concluded with any country, allows the extradition of foreigners who are not citizens of either Cambodia or China.

The immigration police in Phnom Penh said that they were holding Mr. Devillers near the airport, but declined to comment further on his case.
724 2012-06-23 PAULIN--Borisse Blair, M.D. February 3, 1940 - March 12, 20112, Survived by cousin Eliziabeth Lee Tonn Sylvis of Bozeman, MT; cousin Dagmar Avolio of Detroit, MI; loving fiance and friend Bernard H. Friese, god-daughter Dr. Sree Panda and childhoo...
725 2012-06-23 A search was under way on Friday to find possible survivors from a fishing vessel carrying about 200 people believed to be seeking asylum in Australia after the boat capsized in rough seas south of the main Indonesian island, Java. Australian and ...
726 2012-06-23 The Foreign Ministry said Friday that Cambodia had no plans to extradite to China or France a detained French architect with links to a disgraced Chinese politician and his wife, but that the architect was not yet being set free, either. A spokesm...
727 2012-06-24 USA Track & Field announced new regulations for how runners could determine who will qualify for the Olympics: as simple as a runoff or perhaps just a coin flip....
728 2012-06-24 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
729 2012-06-24 It only takes a few misplays to squander a sizable lead in baseball. That was all it took Saturday as a walk here, a single and a fielding mishap there, a pitch up in the zone sent over the fence — all in a few minutes — spoiled what had been a big week for the Mets.

Ahead, 3-0, the Mets had a seventh inning full of mistakes that opened the door for the Yankees to rally for a 4-3 victory at Citi Field and end the Mets’ four-game winning streak.

After Mark Teixeira drew a walk against starter Chris Young to open the inning, Nick Swisher hit a liner to right field. Lucas Duda stepped back, slipped, then dove but failed to catch the ball. The misstep put runners on second and third and gave the Yankees the momentum they needed.

Playing Duda, a natural first baseman, in the outfield has proved a worthy sacrifice for a team starved for power. Occasional misplays in the field matter less than reliable extra-base hits from the middle of the lineup. Saturday night gave reason to second-guess that strategy: Should Manager Terry Collins have brought in Andres Torres for defense? There was hardly time to consider a switch as the next pitch, an 84-mile-per-hour fastball, hung over the plate for Raul Ibanez, who lined it just over the right-field wall for a game-tying three-run homer.

With that, Young’s night was over, his six scoreless innings of work erased.

Jon Rauch came in and struck out Russell Martin for the first out, but then gave up the go-ahead home run to pinch-hitter Eric Chavez.
730 2012-06-24 Melissa Ann De Ruiter and Roy A. Kaiser Jr. were married Saturday evening at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts in Philadelphia. Judge Michael M. Baylson, of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, officiated.

Ms. De Ruiter, 40, will take her husband’s name. She is the executive vice president for fund-raising at the Academy of Fine Arts. She graduated magna cum laude with degrees in art history and French from Dickinson College.

She is a daughter of Yvonne J. De Ruiter and Richard E. De Ruiter of Pawleys Island, S.C.

Mr. Kaiser, 54, is the artistic director at Pennsylvania Ballet in Philadelphia. Until 1992, he was a principal dancer for the company. He is a son of Margaret Kearney Kaiser and Roy A. Kaiser Sr. of Dover, Del.

The couple met in 2002 at the Pennsylvania Ballet, when she was the grants manager and he was the artistic director.

The only relationship they had was professional, hers on the business side and his the artistic side.
731 2012-06-24 Kenneth Neil Price and Scott David Coff were married Saturday evening in New York. Rabbi Michael Feinberg officiated at the Tribeca Rooftop.

Until this month, Mr. Price (left), 49, was an executive vice president for Jakks Pacific, a toy and entertainment company in Malibu, Calif.; he worked from New York handling the company’s North American sales. He graduated from the State University at Albany and received an M.B.A. from Hofstra University. He is the son of Bernice and the late Melvin Price.

Mr. Coff, also 49, was until last month the director of the wealth management division in New York for Sheffield Haworth, a London executive search firm. He is also the founder and owner of Mypalmsprings.com, a travel Web site for the Palm Springs, Calif., region. He graduated from Baruch College. He is the son of Jay M. Coff of Boca Raton, Fla., and the late Florence J. Coff.

The couple met on the first day of the sixth grade at Boardman Elementary School in Oceanside, N.Y., when Mr. Price was 11 years old and Mr. Coff 10.

For Mr. Price, it was a nerve-racking foray into a new school district where he did not know anyone. As he got off the school bus, he approached Mr. Coff, who was chatting with his best friend.

“I was dressed up, and everyone else was wearing jeans,” Mr. Price recalled. “I told Scott that I needed a new best friend, but he said he already had one.”
732 2012-06-24 Emily Sloat Shaw and Guilherme Clasen Roschke are to be married Sunday at the Bumper Car Pavilion of Glen Echo Park in Glen Echo, Md. Alexander Malek, a friend of the couple who became a Universal Life minister for the event, is to officiate.

The bride, 34, will keep her name. She is an exhibits specialist at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington. She graduated from Amherst College and earned a Master of Fine Arts degree in museum exhibition planning and design from the University of the Arts.

She is the daughter of Sloat Shaw of Brookline, Mass., and David A. Shaw of Arlington, Mass. Her father retired as a librarian at the Cambridge Public Library in Cambridge, Mass. Her mother is an artist whose oil paintings and prints are on display at the Zen Gallery in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.

The bridegroom, 37, works in Washington as the policy counsel for Common Sense Media, a San Francisco nonprofit organization that helps children and parents navigate media and technology. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and received a law degree from George Washington University. He also received a Master of Laws degree from Georgetown.

He is a son of Maria Alice Clasen Roschke and Sergio Ivan Roschke of Florianapólis, Brazil. His parents are both retired from the Pan American Health Organization, a branch of the World Health Organization, in Washington. His mother was a health human resource specialist. His father was an information technology specialist.
733 2012-06-24 “We’re very appreciative of him giving us that opportunity to look,” Baltimore Manager Buck Showalter said. “I wouldn’t be surprised to see him pitch for somebody shortly. Personally, just out of respect for his career what he’s done, I hope it happens.”

Moyer pitched in Baltimore from 1993-95, one of several stops during a big league career that began in 1986 and was interrupted in 2011 by elbow surgery.

Insisting his left arm still had some life, Moyer signed with the Rockies in January 2012 and joined the big league club April 3. He had a 5.70 E.R.A. in 10 games.

Unless another team signs him, that will be his final ledger.

GIANTS 9, ATHLETICS 8 Brandon Belt hit a go-ahead two-run homer in the sixth inning, Buster Posey added a two-run drive in the seventh and visiting San Francisco backed Madison Bumgarner’s fourth straight win with just enough offense.

WHITE SOX 8, BREWERS 6 Dayan Viciedo homered and drove in four runs, Alex Rios delivered a tiebreaking single in the seventh inning and host Chicago rallied to beat Milwaukee.DODGERS 3, ANGELS 1 Chris Capuano outdueled Ervin Santana with seven gritty innings, leading the visiting Los Angeles Dodgers over the Angels and helping end the National League West leaders’ four-game losing streak.

RED SOX 8, BRAVES 4 Will Middlebrooks had a solo home run among his three hits and drove in two runs, and Franklin Morales gave host Boston another decent start in place of Josh Beckett.

NATIONALS 3, ORIOLES 1 Edwin Jackson took a one-hitter into the seventh, Adam LaRoche homered and Washington beat host Baltimore.

BLUE JAYS 7, MARLINS 1 Edwin Encarnacion hit a tiebreaking home run and Colby Rasmus had a grand slam later in the ninth, lifting visiting Toronto over Miami.

PHILLIES 7, RAYS 6 Pinch-hitter Jim Thome hit a home run leading off the bottom of the ninth inning to lift host Philadelphia over Tampa Bay after Jonathan Papelbon blew his first save opportunity in 18 chances this season.

Papelbon said he told Thome in the on-deck circle that he would give him $5,000 if he hit a homer. Papelbon said he wrote the check in the clubhouse.

“That was a huge pickup by Jim Thome,” Papelbon said.

PIRATES 4, TIGERS 1 Brad Lincoln allowed two hits and a run in six innings, Andrew McCutchen hit a three-run homer, and host Pittsburgh won for the sixth time in seven games.

ASTROS 8, INDIANS 1 The rookie Dallas Keuchel pitched a complete game and J. D. Martinez and Jordan Schafer hit consecutive home runs in Houston’s four-run fifth inning, leading Houston over visiting Cleveland.

REDS 6, TWINS 0 Johnny Cueto remained unbeaten in June by pitching seven innings and driving in a pair of runs with a squeeze bunt and a bases-loaded groundout, leading host Cincinnati over Minnesota.

The Reds ended their season-high losing streak at four games.

ROCKIES 11, RANGERS 7 Tyler Colvin and Chris Nelson had consecutive two-out, two-run singles in an early outburst for Colorado, and the Rockies held on for a victory that ended a seven-game winning streak for the host Texas Rangers.

CARDINALS 8, ROYALS 2 Matt Holliday and Allen Craig paced another big game for the St. Louis offense, and Adam Wainwright took advantage of the robust run support in St. Louis’s victory over host Kansas City.

BUCHHOLZ SICK The Red Sox right-hander Clay Buchholz will miss Sunday’s start against Atlanta because of an illness. ... Milwaukee placed starter Shaun Marcum on the 15-day disabled list; he has elbow soreness ... Arizona placed the left-hander Joe Saunders, who has a strained left elbow, on the 15-day disabled list.
734 2012-06-24 Looking back, Democrats said they had had every reason for confidence, given decades of Supreme Court precedents affirming Congress’s authority to regulate interstate commerce, and lawyers who defended the law said they had always taken the challenge seriously even if politicians had not. But they underestimated the chances that conservative judges might, in this view, radically reinterpret or discard those precedents.

Adversaries said the law’s proponents had been too attentive to liberal academics who shaped public discussion. “There’s very little diversity in the legal academy among law professors,” said Randy E. Barnett, a Georgetown University law professor and a leading thinker behind the challenge. “So they’re in an echo chamber listening to people who agree with them.”

David B. Rivkin Jr., who filed a challenge joined by 26 states, said that extended across party lines. “Nobody in Congress is interested in constitutional issues,” he said. “The Republicans on the Hill were no better than the Democrats. It really was very late in the game when Republicans realized there would be no policy deal and began to look at the constitutional issues.”

Whether a different approach might have changed the outcome remains unclear. With the benefit of hindsight, some advocates said they would have been better off framing the law more explicitly as a tax, although doing so would have been politically explosive. Short of that, some said, strategy alternatives like slowing down the case still might not have made a difference.

And the Supreme Court may yet uphold the law, in which case the second-guessing in Washington will quickly transform into triumphant told-you-so’s. Ms. Pelosi, for one, has not retreated. “We’re ironclad on the constitutionality of the bill,” she told CBS this month. “I think we’ll be 6-3 in our favor.”

Democrats, and some Republicans, were so sure from the start because the concept of requiring Americans to obtain insurance or pay a penalty had originally been advanced by conservatives to avoid government-run health care. The Constitution authorizes Congress to regulate interstate commerce, but critics argued that rather than regulate activity, the law regulated inactivity — in other words, the choice of some Americans not to buy a commercial product.

Democrats who tried to warn their party of that risk were brushed off. When Michael Waldman, president of the Brennan Center for Justice at the New York University School of Law, wrote such an article in Newsweek in March 2009, a pair of law professors disputed him in print.

“It was so absurd a concept that the court would do this,” Mr. Waldman recalled. “Nobody thought it was unconstitutional until quite recently.” Even now, Mr. Waldman considers the law “plainly constitutional” based on decades of doctrine. “It’s just that you do have this increasingly activist court,” he said.

Thomas J. Perrelli, until recently the associate attorney general, said that the legal team had taken the case seriously and that anyone who had not was misguided. “You had to know this was going to the Supreme Court,” he said, “and it would be one of the most important cases of the decade.”

The issue came up briefly on the Senate floor when Democrats voted down a constitutional objection by Republicans after a detailed rebuttal by Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont. Days before final passage, White House and Justice Department lawyers met to map out a defense. Some in the room recalled being acutely aware of the danger. The White House assigned a new associate deputy attorney general, Robert Weiner, to coordinate the effort.

The first lawsuits were filed the day Mr. Obama signed the plan in March 2010. By the end of January 2011, judges in Florida and Virginia had ruled it unconstitutional. Only then did the Senate and the House hold hearings on its constitutionality, and the administration grew worried.

“Once they lost one, two, three rulings, they had to take it more seriously,” said Michael Carvin, who represented the National Federation of Independent Business in challenging the law.

As cases moved to appeals courts, Neal Katyal, the acting solicitor general, personally took over rather than wait until they reached the Supreme Court. After some debate, he decided to speed up the process. The Department of Health and Human Services wanted the matter resolved to prepare for full implementation in 2014, and Mr. Katyal dropped procedural objections and asked for quick schedules.

He reformulated strategy, citing the Federalist Papers to argue that the founders saw the commerce clause as a broad tool when states could not solve problems. “The whole goal was to figure out how to talk to conservatives,” one person involved said.

Mr. Katyal also refined the argument to reject the notion that the law improperly forced Americans to buy something. Instead, he contended, it simply regulated how Americans paid for health care that they would invariably consume. Since the uninsured still need health care, he argued, the government has the power to force that it be paid for upfront.

The argument sold better in some courts than in others. Tough questioning from the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit in Cincinnati led Mr. Katyal to call Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. to say they had probably lost. But a conservative judge, Jeffrey S. Sutton, joined a majority upholding the law. In the District of Columbia Circuit, Judge Laurence H. Silberman, a conservative, also ruled for it.

A three-judge panel for the 11th Circuit in Atlanta, however, declared the insurance mandate unconstitutional. The administration chose not to ask the full court to rehear the case and appealed directly to the Supreme Court.

Donald B. Verrilli Jr., who became solicitor general last June, rehearsed in multiple moot court sessions. But on the critical day of Supreme Court arguments on March 27, he momentarily choked on a drink of water and was hammered by justices skeptical of his argument. He gave a rambling answer about the limits of Congressional power and had a hard time controlling the discussion as he was peppered with questions. Commentators gave him harsh reviews, but Mr. Obama called him to show support.

Either way, administration lawyers were more disturbed by what the justices had said. They were disheartened that Justice Antonin Scalia, who had joined a ruling upholding a previous commerce clause case, seemed so hostile. Kathryn Ruemmler, the White House counsel, was said to be disturbed that Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, often the swing vote, suggested that the government had a “heavy burden.”

But current and former administration lawyers hold out hope. “I walked out of the court thinking we were going to win — not unanimously,” Mr. Weiner said. “I’ve heard a lot of these arguments. That was my gut, and I’m sticking with that.”
735 2012-06-24 The double-amputee runner Oscar Pistorius again missed South Africa’s qualifying time for the London Olympics, almost a second off the mark in winning a 400-meter race in Belgium. Pistorius won at the E.A.P. meet in Nivelles in 46.20 seconds, far off the standard of 45.3 he needs to get automatic qualification for the Games. He has at least one more chance to qualify at the African Championships in Benin next week. Without running the qualifying time, Pistorius could also make the Olympics if he is included on South Africa’s 4x400 relay team.

¶ The world 800-meter champion and record holder David Rudisha clinched a spot on Kenya’s Olympic team by winning the final at the national trials in Nairobi. Rudisha led from the start to finish in 1 minute 42.12 seconds at Nyayo National Stadium and earned a trip to his first Olympics. Timothy Kitum and Anthony Chemut also secured spots. The reigning 1,500 Olympic gold medalist Asbel Kiprop finished third in the 1,500 to make the team behind Silas Kiplagat and Nixon Chepseba. Kiplagat, the 2011 world silver medalist, won in 3:37.60. The women’s 5,000 and 10,000 world champion Vivian Cheruiyot won the 5,000.
736 2012-06-24 THREE years ago, in front of my 300 colleagues at LRN, I ripped up our organizational chart and proclaimed that none of us would report to a boss anymore. From that point on, we would all “report” to our company mission. Literally. No one would experience life at LRN as someone else’s subordinate. In short, we would strive to become a self-governing company.

LRN works with companies to meet their legal obligations and inspire principled performance in their operations. Before that day, we had long worked to become a flat organization. We had never governed behavior exclusively with policies and procedures. And we had rejected performance evaluations based only on numerical outcomes, recognizing that colleagues’ methods and behavior also count.

Despite some real progress, though, most of us had begun to feel that we still had a long way to go. We came to realize that self-governance is not only about becoming “flatter.” It is not about a chief executive “empowering” employees or exhorting people to “think outside the box.” Empowering employees only reinforces power — a temporary gift bestowed from on high — as the most important source of authority. And thinking outside the box leaves organizational boxes in place rather than removing them entirely.

That’s why 20 LRN teams from around the globe spent six months imagining what a self-governing organization would look like. The day I ripped up that org chart, we agreed that LRN would become a living laboratory to experiment with this alternative way of running a company.

In a self-governing organization, power and authority are wielded in a highly collaborative manner. Information is shared openly and immediately. Employees make decisions and behave not in reaction to rules or a supervisor’s directive, but in accordance with a company mission built on shared values. Power and authority still exist, but they stem from a genuine capacity to contribute and the strength of relationships rather than a hierarchical assignment.

We now run the company through elected employee councils that handle things like recruiting, performance and resource management, and conflict resolution. Although I hold the position of C.E.O. and chairman of the executive council, my colleagues and I as a whole lead the company. I focus on contributing to our business and shaping our culture, not on my formal role.
737 2012-06-24 My first call to H.P. resulted in a brush off. The pixel issue isn’t covered by the two-year warranty, I was told. Conveying my disappointment and annoyance got me nowhere. But a few days later, an H.P. rep e-mailed. An agent, it turned out, had escalated the issue and I was told the screen would be repaired and the other problems fixed. I mailed the computer to the company.

When I checked on the progress of the repair, H.P., to my amazement, could not confirm what repairs had been done. I was already on a low boil when the computer was returned and the screen was in the same damaged condition.

Another call to H.P. This time, someone described as a case manager offered me a refund or, if I wanted to keep the computer, an additional year of warranty. When I suggested that wasn’t much of an enticement, the case manager tossed in accidental damage coverage as well.

By now it’s May. I sent back the laptop and waited. And waited.

(O.K., the Haggler is going to interrupt here and give a quick summary of the rest of this tale, which goes on at somewhat numbing length and, in its original form, includes lots of all-caps, which everyone knows are banned by the Geneva Conventions of Grousing in Print. The gist is that this grouser, John Kosgrove, asked for an upgrade, citing the hassle and delay, and H.P. agreed. But because H.P. is apparently run by arrogant sadists — the Haggler is paraphrasing here — this led only to more hassle and more delay.

The back-and-forth continues for weeks. When the Haggler asked Mr. Kosgrove recently if his computer had finally materialized, he wrote this:)

No. I learned yesterday that they have thrown out, or recycled, my computer. Which they did without notifying me or getting my permission and certainly before anything had been done to resolve this situation. I still can’t believe it. John Kosgrove

A. How, you may wonder, is it possible that a company as august as H.P. is unable to repair and/or upgrade a computer in three months?

Typically, in these situations, the Haggler hopes that someone in the company can explain. But at H.P., employees seem to live by the reporter’s adage that it is better to show rather than tell. The Haggler’s experience was surprisingly similar to Mr. Kosgrove’s: it was unsatisfying and it took too long.

In most instances, a company needs about two days, maybe three, to get to the bottom of a service glitch like the one described above. It took the H.P. spokeswoman Marlene Somsak five days. That would not seem particularly awful except that after five days, this is nearly all of what she said:

“Our pixel repair policy wasn’t clear to the agent who fielded this customer’s call,” she said. “He should have had a repair or a replacement because of that issue and that is now clear to our agents.”

She expanded a bit. It turns out that because Mr. Kosgrove bought a high-end laptop, he is covered by the warranty if only a single pixel is dead. That isn’t true of other, less expensive models, she said.

In other words, the person who took Mr. Kosgrove’s call back in March made a mistake.

Now this is positively revelatory if all you want to understand is what went haywire in the first three minutes of this unfortunate episode. But it sheds not a busted pixel’s worth of light on the remaining three months of errors and irritations.

The Haggler expressed his dismay over the paucity of information collected by Ms. Somsak after five days. She politely deflected. And suddenly there seemed two possibilities: Either Ms. Somsak knew a lot more than she was letting on and wasn’t sharing. Or Ms. Somsak had run into exactly the same obstacles as Mr. Kosgrove and had learned next to nothing.

The Haggler had a hunch that it was the latter. So he asked Ms. Somsak: Did this little inquiry take so long and yield so little, because you had encountered some of the very issues that had exasperated this customer?

She laughed, paused and said as diplomatically as possible, “It took me longer to get the answer than I would have liked.”

As it now stands, Mr. Kosgrove is receiving a substantially upgraded computer, which will be built by June 29, and shipped soon after. Ms. Somsak said the machine should be landing in Mr. Kosgrove’s hands in early July. For perfectly understandable reasons, she was reluctant to make any guarantees.
738 2012-06-24 With public employee unions under attack in states like Wisconsin, and with cities across the country looking to trim budgets, behold a town built almost entirely on a series of public-private partnerships — a system that leaders around here refer to, simply, as “the model.”

Cities have dabbled for years with privatization, but few have taken the idea as far as Sandy Springs. Since the day it incorporated, Dec. 1, 2005, it has handed off to private enterprise just about every service that can be evaluated through metrics and inked into a contract.

To grasp how unusual this is, consider what Sandy Springs does not have. It does not have a fleet of vehicles for road repair, or a yard where the fleet is parked. It does not have long-term debt. It has no pension obligations. It does not have a city hall, for that matter, if your idea of a city hall is a building owned by the city. Sandy Springs rents.

The town does have a conventional police force and fire department, in part because the insurance premiums for a private company providing those services were deemed prohibitively high. But its 911 dispatch center is operated by a private company, iXP, with headquarters in Cranbury, N.J.

“When it comes to public safety, outsourcing has always been viewed with a kind of suspicion,” says Joseph Estey, who manages the Sandy Springs 911 service in a hushed gray room a few miles from city hall. “What I think really tipped the balance here is that they were outsourcing just about everything else.”

Does the Sandy Springs approach work? It does for Sandy Springs, says the city manager, John F. McDonough, who points not only to the town’s healthy balance sheet but also to high marks from residents on surveys about quality of life and quality of government services.

But that doesn’t mean “the model” can be easily exported — Sandy Springs has the built-in advantage that comes from wealth — or that its widespread adoption would enhance the commonweal. Critics contend that the town is a white-flight suburb that has essentially seceded from Fulton County, a 70-mile-long stretch that includes many poor and largely African-American areas, most of them in Atlanta and points south.

The prospect of more Sandy Springs-style incorporations concerns people like Evan McKenzie, author of “Privatopia: Homeowner Associations and the Rise of Residential Private Government.” He worries that rich enclaves may decide to become gated communities writ large, walling themselves off from areas that are economically distressed.

“You could get into a ‘two Americas’ scenario here,” he says. “If we allow the more affluent to institutionally isolate themselves, then the poor are supposed to do — what? They’re supposed to have all the poverty and all the social problems and deal with them?”

The champions of Sandy Springs counter that they still send plenty of tax dollars to the county and that race had nothing to do with the decision to incorporate. (The town’s minority population is now 30 percent and growing, they note.) Leaders here say they had simply grown tired of the municipal service offered by Fulton County.

“We make no apologies for being more affluent than other parts of the metro area,” says Eva Galambos, the mayor of Sandy Springs. And what does she make of the attitude of the town’s detractors? “Pure envy,” she says.

NOTHING about Sandy Springs hints that it is one of the country’s purest examples of a contract city. Even those city hall employees betray no sign that they work for a jumble of corporations. Drive around and you’ll see a nondescript upscale suburb, where the most notable features are traffic lights that seem to take five minutes to turn green. There is no downtown, or at least anything that looks like a main street. Instead, there are strip malls with plenty of usual-suspect franchises — although one strip mall, oddly enough, includes a small museum that tells the story of Anne Frank.

The town is home to offices of United Parcel Service, Hardee’s and other corporations, and it also serves as a bedroom community for Atlanta. Residents include Herman Cain, members of the Atlanta Braves and the Atlanta Falcons, and executives at Delta Air Lines, CNN and other companies. This is also home to the rapper and producer Akon, whose opulent tastes were featured in an episode of “Cribs” on MTV.

“A few years ago, I got a call from his head of security,” says Kenneth DeSimone, the deputy chief of police, who is giving a tour of the town one May afternoon. It turned out that somebody had stolen a pistol and a laptop from Akon’s home.

“He seemed really focused on the laptop and I was looking around this guy’s house thinking, ‘What is the big deal with this laptop? He can afford another one.’ Turns out, there was a bunch of new Lady Gaga demos on it. Worth millions.”

That crime was solved when an informant helped lead the police to some young people who, Mr. DeSimone said, had no idea whose home they had entered and what was stored on the computer.

The car driven by Mr. DeSimone says “Sandy Springs” on the side, which is one reason that this town can’t claim to be the most outsourced city in the United States. That distinction probably belongs to Maywood, Calif., eight miles southeast of Los Angeles, which in 2010 fired all but one employee, its city manager. Maywood is now operated, from top to bottom, through contracts. The police officers are members of the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department, paid a combined $3.5 million a year to patrol the streets, according to Felipe Aguirre, a council member.

But Maywood was pushed to extreme measures after it flirted with bankruptcy and lost insurance coverage for its public work force. Sandy Springs went the public-private partnership route by choice, and it evangelizes about its success.

Few have more zeal than Oliver W. Porter, a founding father and architect in chief.

With his gray beard and thick gray hair, Mr. Porter is a beatnik version of John Updike with a Southern drawl and a pipe. He is sitting one morning in a tiny room in his basement, which has a small desk, a chair and a psychiatrist’s couch. A parachute is spread out along the ceiling, like a canopy, and a mural of an ancient Roman landscape — Mr. Porter’s handiwork — adorns one wall.

This unassuming nook is where every element of Sandy Springs was conceived and designed. With the title of interim city manager, Mr. Porter drafted requests for proposals and fielded calls here, often from people who imagined him in charge of a small battalion of employees.

“One day a lady called and said: ‘Oh, Mr. Porter, I didn’t mean to interrupt you. May I speak to your staff?’ ” he recalls. Reliving the moment, he picks up the phone, puts it to one ear and then switches to the other.

“Staff speaking,” he told the caller, in a slightly deeper voice.

Mr. Porter, a retired AT&T engineer, was an advocate of the town when it was a hopeless cause, during the many years when Democrats blocked efforts to let a largely Republican and white suburb cleave itself from Fulton County. One Democratic legislator vowed that Sandy Springs would incorporate “when pigs fly,” a phrase that Mayor Galambos has since adopted as the name of her blog.

After an election in 2004, both houses of Georgia’s legislature were controlled by Republicans for the first time since Reconstruction.

“It was like a dog that’s been chasing a train for years and finally catches it,” Mr. Porter says. “The question was, What do I do with it now?”

As a fan of Ronald Reagan and the economist Friedrich Hayek, Mr. Porter came naturally to the notion that Sandy Springs could push “the model” to its nth degree. His philosophical inclinations were formed by a life spent in private enterprise, and cemented by a visit to Weston, Fla., a town that had begun as a series of gated communities.

Mr. Porter tells this and other stories in “Creating the New City of Sandy Springs,” a book that will leave readers with one indelible lesson: incorporating a city is dull. Superduper dull. The book is composed mostly of the codicils, requests for proposals and definitions of duties that were required to jolt Sandy Springs to life. Without a love of minutiae and a very long attention span, forget it. But this is intended as a blueprint, not a gripping narrative. Mr. Porter regards the success of Sandy Springs as a way out of the financial morass that has engulfed so many cities in the aftermath of the Great Recession.

“Many are on the verge of bankruptcy,” Mr. Porter says. “They have significant unfunded liabilities, like pensions and other benefits. It’s almost like a poison that a lot of people are unaware of, and this model could be an answer.”

HOVERING around the debate about privatization is a basic question: What is local government for? For years, one answer, at least implicitly, was “to provide steady jobs with good wages.” But that answer is losing its political tenability, says John D. Donahue of the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. “A lot of jobs in government are middle-class jobs that in the private sector are not middle-class jobs,” he says. “People aren’t willing to support conditions for public workers that they themselves no longer enjoy.”

In a way, what Sandy Springs and other newly incorporated towns have done harks back to a 19th-century notion of taxation, which was much less about cross-subsidies and much more about fee for service.

“It was normal from around 1830 through the end of the Civil War for cities to be run like businesses,” says Mr. McKenzie, the “Privatopia” author. “When people paid property taxes, it was to get something that benefited them directly — like butchers wanting a certain area cleaned up.”

Sandy Springs residents still send roughly $190 million a year to Fulton County through property taxes, about half of which goes to schools, including those in Sandy Springs. But by incorporating, the town gets to keep $90 million in taxes a year to spend as it pleases.

Has this financially hurt the rest of Fulton County? It has, says the county manager, Zachary Williams, who calculates that the incorporation of Sandy Springs, and neighboring towns that incorporated after it, cost the county about $38 million a year. Mr. Williams described the figure as “significant,” especially given the strains imposed by the economic downturn.

“I would bet that Atlanta is top five in the country in terms of foreclosures,” he says. “I think our vacancy rate is 14 to 18 percent.”

Some Georgia politicians outside Sandy Springs regard it and other breakaway towns as “the first shot in the battle to destroy Fulton County,” as State Senator Vincent Fort, a Democrat whose district includes part of Atlanta, put it.

“What you have is the northern section of the county,” he went on, “which is mostly white, seeking to leave the rest of Fulton County, and doing so with what I think are racially tinged arguments about the corruption and inefficiency of local government.”

Town leaders say race had nothing to do with it. Mayor Galambos said, “A 94 percent vote in favor of incorporation speaks to the broad community support for self-government and a desire to have local dollars remain local.”

BUT leave aside questions of fairness and race. Many cities that have dipped a toe or two into the privatization pool, and others that have plunged in, have had awful results. Recently, the company that has a contract to manage Chicago’s parking meters sent the city a series of bills, totaling nearly $50 million, to make up for revenue lost from people with disability parking placards and from street closings. Mayor Rahm Emanuel has refused to pay.

New York City’s comptroller released a report in late May that said that Hewlett-Packard, a major contractor in the city’s emergency dispatch service, was paid $113 million for work considered subpar.

In Maywood, Calif., going private has driven up the cost of running the town, says Mr. Aguirre, the council member, and the quality of municipal service has gone down.

“Let’s say a tree falls on a car,” Mr. Aguirre says. “Previously, we had an employee who would deal with it. Now, you have to make an appointment and they’ll come out when they can. They’re not our people to control any more.”

Mr. McDonough, the Sandy Springs city manager, says the town has sidestepped such problems. The key, he explains, lay in the fine art of drafting contracts.

Initially, and for the first five and a half years of its life, Sandy Springs used just one company, CH2M Hill, based in Englewood, Colo., to handle every service it delivered. Mr. McDonough says CH2M saved the town millions compared with the cost of hiring a conventional public work force, but last year Sandy Springs sliced the work into pieces and solicited competitive bids.

When the competition was over, the town had spread duties to a handful of corporations and total annual outlays dropped by $7 million. (Representatives of CH2M, which still has a call-center contract, said at the time that they were “deeply disappointed” by the results, but wished the city well, according to a local news report.)

To dissuade companies from raising prices or reducing the quality of service, the town awarded contracts to a couple of losing bidders for every winner it hired. The contracts do not come with any pay or any work — unless the winning bidder that prevailed fails to deliver. It’s a bit like the Miss America pageant anointing the runner-up as the one who will fulfill the winner’s duties if, for some reason, Miss America cannot.

“In most cases, Miss America serves her whole term,” Mr. McDonough says, warming to the analogy. “But every once in a while something happens and they don’t have to run a whole new competition.”

The privatized approach saves money, he continues, because corporations hire superior workers and give them better training. Work handled by 15 public employees can be done by 12 privately employed workers, he says: “It’s all about the caliber of employee and the customer focus that comes out of the private sector.”

During a tour of city hall, Mr. McDonough bumps into Kevin Walter, the deputy director of public works. Mr. Walker has good news. Currently, Sandy Springs pays for two people to operate two road maintenance trucks five days a week — in effect, 10 days of work every two weeks. Well, Mr. Walker has just figured out a way to reduce the number to nine days every two weeks, saving $50,000 a year.

Does Mr. Walker, or rather his company, URS, get to keep a portion of that $50,000?

“No,” Mr. Walker says. “But I get to keep my job. Our job is to run all these projects and programs very efficiently.”

“It is renewed every year,” Mr. Walker says.

“It can be renewed every year,” Mr. McDonough clarifies.

“It can be renewed every year,” says Mr. Walker, correcting himself.

Any anxiety that you will not be renewed?

“No,” Mr. Walker says. He quickly reconsiders. “A little bit,” he says. “Enough so that we do an excellent job. We know we can do an excellent job and we have faith in the city. And we know it would not be easy for them to change so we’d have to really mess up for them to change. But we’re not going to mess up.”
739 2012-06-24 About 30,000 of the 43,000 Apple employees in this country work in Apple Stores, as members of the service economy, and many of them earn about $25,000 a year. They work inside the world’s fastest growing industry, for the most valuable company, run by one of the country’s most richly compensated chief executives, . Last year, he received stock grants, which vest over a 10-year period, that at today’s share price would be worth more than $570 million.

And though Apple is unparalleled as a retailer, when it comes to its lowliest workers, the company is a reflection of the technology industry as a whole.

The Internet and advances in computing have created untold millionaires, but most of the jobs created by technology giants are service sector positions — sales employees and customer service representatives, repairmen and delivery drivers — that offer little of Silicon Valley’s riches or glamour.

Much of the debate about American unemployment has focused on why companies have moved factories overseas, but only 8 percent of the American work force is in manufacturing, according to the . Job growth has for decades been led by service-related work, and any recovery with real legs, labor experts say, will be powered and sustained by this segment of the economy.

And as the service sector has grown, the definition of a career has been reframed for millions of American workers.

“In the service sector, companies provide a little bit of training and hope their employees leave after a few years,” says Arne L. Kalleberg, a professor of sociology at the . “Especially now, given the number of college kids willing to work for low wages.”

By the standards of retailing, Apple offers above average pay — well above the minimum wage of $7.25 and better than the Gap, though slightly less than , the yoga and athletic apparel chain, where sales staff earn about $12 an hour. The company also offers very good benefits for a retailer, including health care, contributions and the chance to buy company stock, as well as Apple products, at a discount.

But Apple is not selling polo shirts or yoga pants. Divide revenue by total number of employees and you find that last year, each Apple store employee — that includes non-sales staff like technicians and people stocking shelves — brought in $473,000.

“These are sales rates for a consulting company,” said Horace Dediu, an analyst who blogged about the calculation on the site Asymco. Electronics and appliance stores typically post $206,000 in revenue per employee, according to the latest figures from the National Retail Federation.

Even Apple, it seems, has recently decided it needs to pay its workers more. Last week, four months after first began inquiring about the wages of its store employees, the company started to inform some staff members that they would receive substantial raises. An Apple spokesman confirmed the raises but would not discuss their size, timing or impetus, nor who would earn them.

But Cory Moll, a salesman in the flagship store and a vocal labor activist, said that on Tuesday he was given a raise of $2.82 an hour, to $17.31, an increase of 19.5 percent and a big jump compared with the 49-cent raise he was given last year.

“My manager called me into his office and said, ‘Apple wants to show that it cares about its workers, and show that it knows how much value you add to the company, by offering a bigger raise than in previous years,’ ” Mr. Moll recalled.

Though a significant increase, Mr. Moll’s new salary of about $36,000 puts him on the low side of the wage scale at the other large sellers of Apple products, and Verizon Wireless, both of which offer commissions to sales staff at their stores.

In other areas, Apple has been a leader. Stores in a variety of fields have adopted the company’s retail techniques, like the use of roving -card swipers to minimize checkout lines, as well as the petting-zoo layout that encourages customers to test-drive products.

But Apple’s success, it turns out, rests on a set of intangibles; foremost among them is a built-in fan base that ensures a steady supply of eager applicants and an employee culture that tries to turn every job into an exalted mission.

This is why Apple can do something unique in the annals of retailing: pay a modest hourly wage, and no commission, to employees who typically have college degrees and who at the highest performing levels can move as much as $3 million in goods a year.

“When you’re working for Apple you feel like you’re working for this greater good,” says a former salesman who asked for anonymity because he didn’t want to draw attention to himself. “That’s why they don’t have a revolution on their hands.”

These true believers skew young, as anyone who has ever set foot in an Apple Store knows. And the relative youth of this work force helps explain why people are likely to judge the company by a different set of standards when it comes to wages, says Paul Osterman, a professor at ’s Sloan School of Management.

“It’s interesting to ask why we find it offensive that pays a single mother $9 an hour, but we don’t find it offensive that Apple pays a young man $12 an hour,” Mr. Osterman said. “For each company, the logic is the same — there is a line of people eager to take the job. In effect, we’re saying that our value judgments depend on the circumstances of the employee, not just supply and demand of the labor market.”

Twenty-two-year-olds also tend to be more tolerant of the Apple Store’s noise and bustle, yet these days some former employees describe a work environment that was too hectic and stressful, thanks in large part to the runaway popularity of the and .

Managers often tell new workers that they hope to get six years of service, former employees say. “That was what we heard all the time,” says Shane Garcia, a former Apple Store manager in . “Six years.” But the average tenure is two and a half years, says a person familiar with the company’s retention numbers, and as foot traffic has increased, turnover rates in many stores have increased, too. Internal surveys at stores have also found surprising dissatisfaction levels, particularly among technicians, or “geniuses” in Apple’s parlance, who work at what is called the Genius Bar. Apple declined requests for interviews for this article. Instead, the company issued a statement:

“Thousands of incredibly talented professionals work behind the Genius Bar and deliver the best customer service in the world. The annual retention rate for Geniuses is almost 90%, which is unheard-of in the retail industry, and shows how passionate they are about their customers and their careers at Apple.”

That 90 percent figure sounds accurate to Mr. Garcia, who quit last July after four years with the company, overwhelmed by the work and unable to mollify employees and customers alike. Plenty of technicians do, in fact, like their jobs, which vary around the country, and which pay in the range of $40,000 a year in the Chicago area. Many technicians, though, wanted to leave but were unable to find equivalent work, according to Mr. Garcia and other former managers, in part because of the weak economy.

The problem for Apple Store employees, they said, wasn’t just the pace. It was the lack of upward mobility. There are only a handful of different jobs at Apple Stores and the most prestigious are invariably sought after by dozens of candidates. And a leap to the company headquarters is highly unusual.

Apple prohibits its staff from talking to the media, but several former employees who spoke for this article said they had fond memories of their jobs, and regarded them as ideal for people in their early 20s who aren’t ready for a full-on dive into the white-collar world.

And “Apple” can be a strong credential to have on a résumé, these people said. Technicians often move on to higher-paying jobs in information technology, they said, and sales staff have a leg up on the competition if they stay in retailing because “people know how grueling the job is,” as one former manager put it.

But other former employees have struggled to find work, or have moved into lateral jobs at other companies. And even those who used Apple as a launching pad described a gradual evolution, from team player to skeptic, as they discovered that there was a gap between what the job appeared to be (kind of hip) and what it was (frenetic and in many cases a dead end).

Kelly Jackson, who was a technician at an Apple Store in Chicago, was thrilled when she was hired two years ago. But she said she was even happier when she quit a year later, having found the work too relentless and the satisfactions too elusive.

“When somebody left, you’d be really excited for them,” says Ms. Jackson, who now works at . “It was sort of like, ‘Congratulations. You’ve done what everyone here wants to do.’ ”

Skeptics outnumbered believers when , then Apple’s chief, pitched the Apple Store concept to his board in 2000. Ultimately, approval was given for just four stores.

Mr. Jobs hired a executive named Ron Johnson to help design and oversee the stores. He in turn hired eight people, one of whom was Denyelle Bruno, then an executive at West. When she was first approached, she said, she was told next to nothing about the work.

That did not daunt Ms. Bruno, now an executive at Peet’s Coffee.

“I had grown up using Macs, and if it involved Apple and I could be involved,” she said, “it made me feel important.”

Ms. Bruno was one of the first hard-core Apple fans hired for the nascent chain. Many others would follow, and part of her job was to help recruit them. Initially, that involved walking into stores, including those operated by Sprint and AT&T, and scouting out promising employees.

Such solicitations were unnecessary after the first two stores opened, on May 19, 2001, in McLean, Va., and Glendale, Calif. Soon, so many people wanted to work at the stores that Mr. Johnson would compare applicants-to-openings ratios and boast that it was harder to land a job at an Apple Store than to get into Stanford, his alma mater.

Those applicants have for years submitted résumés through the company’s site. The time-intensive part, former managers say, is finding the right people amid the pile, and the candidates of choice are affable and self-directed rather than tech-savvy. (The latter can be taught, is the theory, while the former is innate.) The vetting has not changed much. It often starts with an invitation to a seminar, held in a conference room at a hotel.

The culling begins before the seminar starts.

“They turn away people who are three minutes late,” says Graham Marley, who attended his seminar in a hotel in Dedham, Mass., in 2009. “My dream my whole life was to work for Apple and suddenly, you can,” he said. “You’ve always been an evangelist for Apple and now you can get paid for it.”

One manager said it was common for people offered jobs to burst into tears. But if the newly hired arrive as devotees, Apple’s training course, which can range from a few days to a few weeks, depending on the job and locale, turns them into disciples.

Training commences with what is known as a “warm welcome.” As new employees enter the room, Apple managers and trainers give them a standing ovation. The clapping often bewilders the trainees, at least at first, but when the applause goes on for several lengthy minutes they eventually join in.

“My hands would sting from all the clapping,” says Michael Dow, who trained Apple employees for years in , R.I.

There is more role-playing at Core training, as it’s known, this time with pointers on the elaborate etiquette of interacting with customers. One rule: ask for permission before touching anyone’s iPhone.

“And we told trainees that the first thing they needed to do was acknowledge the problem, though don’t promise you can fix the problem,” said Shane Garcia, the one-time Chicago manager. “If you can, let them know that you have felt some of the emotions they are feeling. But you have to be careful because you don’t want to lie about that.”

The phrase that trainees hear time and again, which echoes once they arrive at the stores, is “enriching people’s lives.” The idea is to instill in employees the notion that they are doing something far grander than just selling or fixing products. If there is a secret to Apple’s sauce, this is it: the company ennobles employees. It understands that a lot of people will forgo money if they have a sense of higher purpose.

That empowerment is important because aspiring sales employees would clearly be better off working at one of the country’s other big sellers of Apple products, AT&T and Verizon Wireless, if they were searching for a hefty paycheck. Both offer sales commissions.

“It’s not at all common but there are sales agents at Verizon who earn six figures,” says Jonathan Jarboe, who managed Verizon Wireless stores in until last summer. Several former Verizon Wireless managers said that annual pay ran from $35,000 up to $100,000 in rare cases, with the sweet spot in the $50,000 to $60,000 range.

At Apple, the decision not to offer commissions was made, Ms. Bruno said, before a store had opened. The idea was that such incentives would work against the company’s primary goals — finding customers the right products, rather than the most expensive ones, and establishing long-term rapport with the brand. Commissions, it was also thought, would foster employee competition, which would undermine camaraderie.

Tellingly, Apple doesn’t use the word “sales” to describe members of its sales team. They’re called “specialists.”

By minimizing the profit motive among employees, Apple does more than just filter out people interested primarily in money. It also reduces the number of middle-aged and older people on the payroll, said former managers. This isn’t about age discrimination, they said, so much as self-selection. Generally, an Apple employee is someone who can afford to live cheaply, is not bothered by the nonstop commotion of an Apple Store and is comfortable with technology.

People who fit that bill tend to be in their early or mid-20s, the former managers said. They typically don’t have children and many don’t have spouses, which means they are relatively inexpensive to cover with .

There is no shortage of college graduates eager to dedicate themselves to Apple’s vision, on Apple’s terms. That includes people like Asher Perlman, another former technician from a store in Chicago, who joined Apple three years ago, when he was 22.

“I’m happy with my time at Apple and where it landed me,” says Mr. Perlman, who now works in information technology. “I wouldn’t recommend it for my 35-year-old friend with a kid, but it works for someone who is 22 years old and doesn’t want to enter the business world yet.”

The iPhone, which arrived in 2007, brought unprecedented crowds to Apple Stores. The company tried to hang on to its culture, but naturally it changed, and in many ways, say some former employees, for the worse.

Arthur Zarate, who joined Apple in 2004 and later worked as a technician at the store in Mission Viejo, Calif., says his training left him with a sense of ownership and pride. For a while, he loved the job, in large part because it delivered the simple and gratifying sense that he was helping people. There were time constraints on technicians — 20 minutes per customer — but because the store was rarely swamped, he usually had more time than that.

“My customers knew me by name,” he said. “That was a big deal.”

He had already begun to sour on the job when in 2007, he said, his store began an attendance system whereby employees accumulated a point for every day they did not come to work; anyone with four points in a 90-day period was at risk of termination.

“It was a perfectly good idea, but the thing that was terrible is that it didn’t matter why you couldn’t come to work,” Mr. Zarate said. “Even if you had a doctor document some medical condition, if you didn’t come to work, you got a point.”

Mr. Zarate, a former heavy smoker, said he was once out for two and a half weeks with severe and was on the verge of dismissal when he e-mailed Ron Johnson, then the retail chief, who intervened on his behalf.

“I just wrote and said, ‘This isn’t fair. They don’t look at why you were out,’ ” he recalls. “And he saved my job.”

To meet the growing demand for the technicians, several former employees said their stores imposed new rules limiting on-the-spot repairs to 15 minutes for a computer-related problem, and 10 minutes for Apple’s assortment of devices. If a solution took longer to find, which it frequently did, a pileup ensued and a scrum of customers would hover. It wasn’t unusual for a genius to help three customers at once.

Because of the constant backlog, technicians often worked nonstop through their shift, instead of taking two allotted 15-minute breaks. In 2009, Matthew Bainer, a lawyer, filed a class action alleging that Apple was breaking labor laws.

“State law mandates two 10-minute breaks a day,” Mr. Bainer said. “But geniuses had these lengthy queues of customers that made it all but impossible for them to stop even for a few minutes.”

The lawsuit was denied class certification in June of last year. Mr. Bainer pursued the matter in separate lawsuits and achieved what he described as “very favorable settlements” for 10 plaintiffs.

Not long after the class-action lawsuit was filed, a technician named Kevin Timmer who worked at the Woodland Mall store in Grand Rapids, Mich., noticed an added step when he logged onto a computer to punch out of work.

“This window popped up and it said something like, ‘By clicking this box I acknowledge that I received all my breaks,’ ” Mr. Timmer recalled. “The rumor was that was because some guy in California had sued.”

Mr. Timmer said he and other technicians in the store clicked the box even when they didn’t take any breaks. It wasn’t because management insisted they stick around. It was that any down time would slam already overburdened colleagues with even more work.

“We were all in the trenches together,” he said. “Nobody wanted to leave.”

With time limits, several former employees said, came another change at their stores. Technicians had always been able to spend a few hours of their shift in the repair room, providing a little away-from-customers time. In many stores, that ended. Walk-in demand for tech help was so great that when the bar was open, management at these stores decreed, it was to be staffed by any technician in the building. Repairs that could not be done at the bar would wait. As a result, the late shift in the repair room at these stores ended not at 10 p.m., but at midnight.

The pressure didn’t faze everyone. Multitasking, for instance, did not bother Asher Perlman.

“I’m a low stress kind of person to begin with and I didn’t find it unmanageable,” he said. “I know others did.”

As the crowds grew, the company’s “thank you” gestures started to seem a little tin-eared. Jordan Golson, who now blogs at MacRumors, a site that keeps tabs on all things Apple, said that for Christmas 2010, he and others at the store were given a fleece blanket and an insulated coffee thermos.

Mr. Zarate fared no better at one quarterly meeting for employees. Mr. Johnson made a videotaped appearance and referred to a wonderful surprise that managers were about to spring on everyone in the room. Free iPads for everyone was the expectation.“Then the lights went down, and we had a party in the store, with games and dancing,” Mr. Zarate said. “And we all got two tacos from a taco truck. That was our surprise. Two tacos.”

Like many who spoke for this article, Shane Garcia, the former Chicago manager, talked about Apple with a bittersweet mix of admiration and sadness. When he joined the company in 2007, he considered it a place, as he said, that “wanted you to be the best you could be in life, not just in sales.”

Three years later, his work life seemed tense and thankless. He had little expectation that upper management would praise or even notice his efforts.

Sales employees, Mr. Garcia and others noted, deal with stresses all their own. Though commissions are not offered, many managers keep close tabs on sales of warranties, known as Apple Care, and One to One, which is personal tutoring for a fee. Employees often had goals for “attachments” as these add-ons are called — 40 percent of certain products should include One to One, and 65 percent should include Apple Care.

For a sales employee who wanted to climb Apple’s in-store ladder — to technician or manager, for instance — those numbers were important. And in terms of keeping employees invested and striving, so were the rungs on that ladder, something that is true across retailing.

“There was always something being dangled in terms of different positions,” says Danielle Draper, a former manager at a store in Hingham, Mass. “‘You’ll need to do this if you want to become a creative,’ that kind of thing. There was never perfection. You could always tell someone they needed to work on something.”

At some point, employees either realize they won’t rise, or rise as high as they can.

“The disillusionment settles in not because of pay,” says Graham Marley, the former part-time salesman, “though pay is part of it. What happens is you realize that they want you to spend years there, but there is no actual career path.”

An exception is the job of manager, and Apple is often diligent about elevating from within its ranks of high achievers. Though not always. After the great influx that started with the iPhone, the company started plucking managers from stores like the Gap and Banana Republic. From employees who were around in the pre-2007 era, you can hear occasional laments about the gradual “Gapification of Apple.”

In recent years, the level of unhappiness at some stores was captured by an employee satisfaction survey known in the company as NetPromoter for Our People. It’s a variation of a questionnaire that Apple has long given to customers, and the key question asks employees to rate, on a scale of one to 10, “How likely are you to recommend working at your Apple Retail Store to an interested friend or family member?” Anyone who offers a nine or 10 is considered a “promoter.” Anyone who offers a seven or below is considered a “detractor.”

Kevin Timmer said the internal survey results last year at the Grand Rapids store were loaded with fives and sixes.

“We discussed it in a monthly meeting and our manager had tears in her eyes,” Mr. Timmer recalled. “She said something about how humbling these results were, that they want to fix any problems, that her door is always open, and so on.”

“By then,” Mr. Garcia said, “it wasn’t a surprise to upper management because it was clear that many geniuses wanted to leave. There was a ceiling. It wasn’t a glass ceiling because everyone could see it.”

Mr. Garcia would eventually quit Apple, and walk away from a job that paid a little more than $40,000 a year, when stress-related health issues sidelined him long enough to put his job at risk. He had no doubts that the company would easily find a replacement.

“There was never a shortage of résumés,” he said. “People will always want to work for Apple.”
740 2012-06-24 So, as he knelt beside me and reached into the bedside table, my heart pounded and my hands became sweaty. “Will you marry me?” he asked, taking out a ring that had been his grandmother’s.

I didn’t know what to do. Was this a momentary panic?

“Yes,” I said, terrified I had paused too long. I stuck out the wrong hand.

We were engaged for 20 minutes, until I mustered the courage to choke out, “What if I’m not ready?”

I loved him desperately. I knew, as much as I would ever know, that he was the one I wanted to be with. We balanced each other. I wanted to frame his dimples.

And yet the moment I saw that ring, I was terrified. I saw dirty dishes and suburbia, not lace-covered wedding gowns. Rather than thinking about the family we’d someday have, I saw the career I had hardly started as suddenly out of reach. The independence I had barely gained felt stifled. I couldn’t breathe.

I begged him to forgive me. I cried and pleaded. I promised I’d never leave him, and I meant it.

He was devastated, but he loved me too much to let go. So we came back to New York, to our tiny apartment, and tried to move on. We held each other — that night, and every night after. I cried and stroked his hair. I said I was sorry. I told him I loved him. We slowly moved forward.

There were plenty of times over the next six years that I wished I had said yes. We could have had a long engagement, I told myself. In a few years, I would have been ready.

But as time went on, as our couple friends broke up, as those who were the first to marry became the first to get divorced, I was glad we hadn’t done it.

We were happy living as partners, without the pressure of “till death do us part.” We were free of all the expectations of matrimonial bliss that make so many couples fall apart.

Besides, we had outlasted a lot of married couples. Why did we need a piece of paper to prove we were committed?

And then we entered an age in which we were engulfed by other people’s weddings. My credit cards were maxed from bridesmaids’ dresses and shower gifts, and our refrigerator was covered with “Save the Date” cards.

But instead of becoming teary eyed as one friend after another proclaimed “I do,” I was reading manifestos against marriage, railing against Lori Gottlieb’s book about settling and keeping statistics in my head. I became obsessed with justifying my decision.

I was working as a writer at Newsweek by then. One afternoon, a colleague and I sat at her desk and added up the number of weddings we had been to that summer (at least a dozen), the dollars we had spent on each (thousands) and how many we believed would last (maybe half).

A few data searches, some interviews and a pitch to an editor later, we were issuing a manifesto of our own. “I Don’t,” we would proclaim a few months later in a 2010 cover line in Newsweek: “The Case Against Marriage.”

Our argument took romance out of the equation. As we explained it, Americans were already waiting longer to marry, and fewer than ever believed in the “sanctity” of marriage. As urban working women in our 20s, we no longer needed marriage to survive — at least not financially. We weren’t religious, so we didn’t believe that unmarried cohabitation or even child-rearing was an issue.

But we were also cynical. As children of the divorce generation, we had watched cheating scandals proliferate in the news. We had given up on fairy tales, and we didn’t know how anybody could see the institution of marriage as anything but a farce. It was “broken,” one sociologist told me. So, what was the point?

“Happily ever after,” we proclaimed proudly, “doesn’t have to include ‘I do.’ ”

I told my boyfriend about the article, and he rolled his eyes. I assured him it wasn’t about us, but he said it didn’t matter. Over the years, he explained, I had convinced him that he didn’t believe in marriage, either. And so we carried on, partnered but not married, in love but not legally bound.

THEN one day, in the most tired of clichés, I, too, started daydreaming about a wedding. I covered a gay wedding at City Hall, the day that same-sex marriage became legal in New York, and I cried as the couple read their vows. I began to wonder what he and I might wear, who would be there, and whether we’d write our own vows.

I brought the issue up tepidly, to feel him out. Lying in bed one night, I asked: “Do you still want to do it? Do you really not believe in it?”

“I’d marry you at City Hall,” he replied, then dropped it.

Another time, he threw my argument back at me: “Why do we need marriage? It’s only a piece of paper.”

And then I brought it up again as we were planning a summer vacation with his family. His was half Greek, and they had gone to the same Greek island since he was a boy. There was a little love boat there that people would take to sea to marry.

“Why don’t we get married there, on the love boat?” I asked.

He laughed. “We’d have to talk about it seriously.”

We never did.

Instead, we re-signed our lease and decided to paint the apartment. We threw out our suitcases because they were taking up too much room. And then, in a moment of sweet insecurity, he told me he was worried he would always love me more than I loved him.

A month later, he broke up with me, a half-hour before midnight, on New Year’s Eve. We were in Seattle for the holidays, just as we had been when he proposed six years before. There was no warning, no conversation. He simply told me he didn’t want to marry. He had never forgiven me for turning him down.

When we got back to New York, he packed up his stuff, quit his job, paid a final month’s rent and moved back to his hometown, 2,000 miles away.

In the end, we had no shared bank account or property. We didn’t have to go through a trial separation or mandatory counseling. We had spent seven years living in a 600-square-foot New York City apartment, inseparable and intertwined. Yet in the end, the relationship ended in one night. No discussion required.

As I tried to make sense of it all, I had a glimpse into why that sheet of paper had been so important to him. Sure, it may well be a jaded tradition, an antiquated ritual. But it’s also a contract.

When he was packing his stuff, I remembered a conversation my Newsweek co-author had had with her mother about our article. “I’ll tell you why you need marriage,” she told her. “Because it makes it harder for the other person to leave.”

At the time, we snickered at her words. Legally requiring someone to stick around? It was desperate, pathetic.

But would it have worked? I’ll never know. What I have learned is this: While “happily ever after” may indeed be a farce, there’s something to be said for uttering “I do.”
741 2012-06-24 Credit: Leah Nash for The New York Times
742 2012-06-24 In the days after we published our article on sexual abuse at the Horace Mann School, “Horace Mann” became one of the most popular search topics on Google in the United States. The article prompted an inquiry into the elite prep school by the Bronx district attorney’s office and led to the creation of a victim’s hot line. It also inspired a Facebook group — with members numbering in the thousands — dedicated to “Processing Horace Mann.” Former students from Horace Mann and other schools have come forward with their own stories of sexual abuse by teachers, setting off a larger conversation about how to prevent this type of misconduct in schools.

I offer the highest praise to Amos Kamil for telling this story. Too many adults in the private-school world have stood silent for too long while the abuse of children is ignored. For anyone who might have had the impression that this abuse does not occur in prestigious institutions, or that money and exclusivity can buy safety and good values, this is a long-overdue wake-up call.

There is a systemic sickness in these schools. Teachers are scared of the administration; the administration is scared of the parents; the parents are scared of admissions; and the admissions department is scared of the board. The board is, of course, scared only of bad publicity. Congrats to the writer for sharing this with all of us, despite what must have been enormous pressure not to do so.

I am obviously outraged by the behavior of the teachers, but I’m also uncomfortable with your timed release of this article, just days before the current class of graduates will receive their diplomas. I was selfishly grateful that my girls did not have to graduate under this cloud. Friends have children in this year’s graduating class, though, and I am disturbed that they will have the taint of the article somewhere in their well-developed minds as they mount the stage for the first major send-off of their lives.

Words cannot describe how sad and upset I am at the thought of any harm coming to any member of our community while attending Horace Mann School. And yet for me to advance an explanation given my limited time at the helm and in the face of so many conversations pertaining to matters 20 to 30 years old would be irresponsible. However, please do not mistake the time we all need to process what has been written in The New York Times Magazine and online as indifference or a lack of concern.
743 2012-06-24 Two points in the review of my novel “Miss Fuller” (June 17) compel me to write. The reviewer’s assertion that Margaret Fuller’s desire for solitude, expressed in a fictional 1850 letter, is “anachronistic” is belied by Fuller’s sentiments in her actual letters, along with the letters, novels and diaries of many writers of the 19th century. In Fuller’s long letter to Sophia Peabody Hawthorne that is the center of this novel, she does indeed discuss, among many other things, “clothes and men” — the first, because she rids herself of corsets and restrictive bonnets and wears men’s shoes to do a lot of walking; the second, because she is returning home from Italy to an American community that has already condemned her as a loose woman for keeping her marriage and baby a secret.

That the reviewer could mischaracterize these urgent personal and political matters by saying that Fuller “gossips about clothes and men” amazes and confounds.
744 2012-06-24 Italy arrived at Euro 2012 with a lot of baggage: doubts sowed in South Africa in 2010 and a domestic match-fixing investigation, prompting many to question the Azzurri's ability to compete under the taint of more scandal. England was followed by ...
745 2012-06-25 Microsoft agreed to buy Yammer, an operator of private social networks for business, for $1.2 billion in cash, signaling a change in the communication habits of big companies....
746 2012-06-25 The Commodity Futures Trading Commission voted to introduce a draft rule that limits how firms can qualify for exemptions through so-called block trades....
747 2012-06-25 Apple, which once bragged that that its Mac computer "Doesn't get PC viruses," recently tweaked its marketing message to read: "Built to be safe." Antivirus makers have been quick to call the tweak an official admission by Apple that this computer...
748 2012-06-25 Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said he was optimistic that New York City could work out a solution to preserve the abatement for certain condominium and co-op owners....
749 2012-06-25 Immigrant rights groups expressed unhappiness over the Supreme Court's mixed ruling on Arizona's immigration law....
750 2012-06-25 Researchers found that each increase in 10 decibels of traffic noise exposure was associated with a 10 percent added risk of heart attack....
751 2012-06-25 A "Casablanca" statuette is put up for auction, something the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences frowns on....
752 2012-06-25 Mitt Romney is ready to talk about health care, but not the Supreme Court's split decision on Arizona's immigration law....
753 2012-06-25 The phytoestrogens in soy products can mimic the behavior of estrogen, a hormone that fuels many breast cancers. But studies have found that the fear is unfounded....
754 2012-06-25 The American men's Olympic basketball Coach Mike Krzyzewski is going to have to be flexible with his lineups for the London Games, as injuries could be reshaping his rotation....
755 2012-06-25 High rates for mandatory insurance are a factor in uninsured driving, a consumer group says....
756 2012-06-25 Microsoft will buy the social networking service for $1.2 billion in cash, as it seeks to strengthen its enterprise software business....
757 2012-06-25 The museum burned more than a decade ago after being struck by lightning, and the reopening was slowed by permitting and financing problems....
758 2012-06-25 Justice Antonin Scalia made a foray into the realm of political combat on Monday, citing President Obama's recent decision to stop enforcement of deportation against some illegal immigrants in a statement of dissent from his colleagues who struck ...
759 2012-06-25 A decision by Judge Paul A. Crotty of Federal District Court in Manhattan will put the firm's 2007 sales of collateralized debt obligations tied to subprime mortgages back under the microscope....
760 2012-06-25 Up Next in Technology
761 2012-06-25 Refusing to fix a massive market failure....
762 2012-06-25 Phillip Kirschen-Clark is leaving after the restaurant decided to make major changes to its offerings....
763 2012-06-25 David Segal on Apple's retail army. | A PepsiCo executive on the changing tastes of Chinese consumers.
764 2012-06-25 A move by Apple to secure high-quality aluminum from Australia for iPad cases was one of many incidents that gradually convinced Microsoft that it needed to create its own tablet computer, Nick Wingfield reports in Monday's New York Times....
765 2012-06-25 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
766 2012-06-25 Greenhill & Company announced on Monday that it had hired Eric Mendelsohn, a longtime restructuring banker, from Lazard....
767 2012-06-25 Plus: the Fed leaves us twisting in the wind, gasoline isn't as expensive as you think, and how to bore the boots off readers. And what percentage of your company do you still own?...
768 2012-06-25 Hazel Hankin has been hooked on Mambo's elegant, energetic rhythms since she first heard them. Combining two passions, she's turned her camera on the vibrant Mambo subculture in New York's dance clubs and studios....
769 2012-06-25 Four scenarios in which any one of the remaining teams at Euro 2012 can win it all, and four in which each of them will go home disappointed....
770 2012-06-25 Frustrated with Albany’s tepid reaction to the idea of publicly financed elections, the Facebook co-founder Chris Hughes and his fiancé are financing a new campaign to press the issue in coordination with Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo.

Mr. Hughes’s fiancé, Sean Eldridge, an investor and political activist who is spearheading the effort, said the group would work with Mr. Cuomo’s office in the same way that gay rights advocates teamed up with the governor last year to persuade Republican lawmakers to support same-sex marriage. The group has also enlisted two former Cuomo aides to help plot its strategy.

As with same-sex marriage, the bulk of the resistance to public financing has come from the Republican-controlled State Senate, and the new group is planning to get involved in a number of Senate races this fall.

“The ultimate goal is we need to create a majority for reform in the Senate,” Mr. Eldridge, a former political director for the advocacy group Freedom to Marry, said. He added, “People are waking up every single morning and seeing another story about money flooding into politics, so we think there’s really a unique opportunity here.”

The campaign, Protect Our Democracy, will include a 501(c)(4) nonprofit group and a political action committee. Mr. Hughes, who is now publisher of The New Republic, and Mr. Eldridge, who will run the campaign, are seeding the political action committee with $250,000. A number of other wealthy individuals have also pledged their support, including Barry Diller, the chairman of the Internet company IAC.
771 2012-06-25 Pizza chains now advertise on some school buses, as a growing number of states consider allowing school districts to sell ads. The Baltimore City Council member who wrote the legislation urging the city to sell ads on fire trucks, William Welch, said he was simply trying to find a way to help the city meet its growing needs in a time of dwindling revenues and support.

“As I’ve looked at budgets, they get bigger with less support from the federal and state governments,” Mr. Welch said. “And we can’t people out of existence. We’re trying, our mayor’s trying, to bring 10,000 more people back to Baltimore city. And if you have an increasing fee or tax structure, you’re not going to be able to do that. So you have to create alternatives.”

But some fear that accepting ads could send the wrong message. When the town of Tyngsborough, Mass., recently considered selling ads to raise money for its fleet of police cars, Chief William F. Mulligan had concerns.

“Because of what we do, we like to be neutral,” he said. “Say there were two shopping plazas, and one advertised and one didn’t. Would that company feel like we weren’t treating them fairly?” The proposal was ultimately rejected.

Even before the recession, the small police department in Littleton, Mass., started an “advertise with the good guys” program that raised money from a local supermarket chain to pay for new police cars in exchange for ad space on their fenders and trunks. ran antismoking ads on the hose covers of some fire trucks. In , local health care providers sponsor safety messages on several fire trucks, with the proceeds going to a charity run by the firefighters’ union that helps the victims of fires, local children and the poor.

Rescue helicopters could get ads, too. With budget cuts threatening to ground the Onondaga County Sheriff’s Office helicopter in , officials there hope to sell ads on it to keep it flying. “Some people think it’s a great idea to help support public budgets,” said John Balloni, a chief in the sheriff’s office, “and some people are a little put off by the idea that we’re getting sponsorship for what used to be a government duty, if you will.”

The downturn seems to have prompted more public entities to sell advertising or auction off the naming rights of public places, said Elizabeth Ben-Ishai, the campaign coordinator for the ’s Commercial Alert project, which works to curb the spread of commercialization. “We are bombarded by ads everywhere we go, and these are public spaces meant to be reflective of the values of our society, co-opted by the private sector,” she said.

systems across the nation have been particularly aggressive in recent years in trying to sell the naming rights of stations. They are struggling with an estimated $77.7 billion shortfall just to get to a state of good repair, at a time of growing ridership, shrinking state support and budgetary shortfalls.

In , new signs went up last month at the Atlantic Avenue subway stop bearing a sponsored addition to its name: Barclays Center, for which the is being paid $4 million over 20 years. Cleveland recently named its new Bus Rapid Transit system the HealthLine after it received $6.25 million over 25 years from the and University Hospitals. (“The HealthLine is not a number to call for free medical advice, any more than Quicken Loans Arena is where you go to take out a ,” its Web site notes.) And last month the Chicago Transit Authority began the process of selling the naming rights of 11 stations.

Such naming deals have grown more popular with advertisers as they try to reach consumers who have grown more adept at tuning out commercials, whether with remote controls or digital video recorders.

“All we’re ever looking for is not only to do something good for the community, but to find another place for eyeballs to be looking at things,” said Jody Berg, the principal of Media Works, a communications company based in Baltimore, who added that the city could find appropriate sponsors in fields like health care, education, sports or .

But the ads would have to raise a great deal of money to avoid the fire company closings, which are expected to save the city more than $6 million a year.

It was three years ago that Baltimore began closing a few different firehouses each day — known as “rotating closures” or “rolling brownouts” — in what officials hoped would be a temporary move to tide them over until better times arrived. But with economic times still tough and no indication that the city will be able to afford to keep all of its 54 fire companies open any time soon, fire officials said it would be better to choose three to close permanently, giving them the predictability and stability they need to make plans to keep the city covered.

“Back in ’09, we thought maybe this will last a year,” Fire Chief S. Clack said. “It’s been three years. Our finance folks are telling us that the budget is not going to get significantly better for several more years. So it’s time to make a decision.”

At a hearing last week in the city’s ornate Council chambers — its marble and brass a reminder of a more opulent age — neighbors expressed anxiety at the thought of losing fire protection, as union officials told of a young man having a who had been saved by one of the companies scheduled to close that morning. Members of the Council expressed grave misgivings about closing the companies for good.

Even if the plan to sell ads on fire trucks fizzles, ads and sponsorships will most likely be coming to Baltimore soon: last week the city began seeking an advertising company to help it sell naming rights and ads and other sponsorships for city buildings, recreation centers and parks.
772 2012-06-25 He came close, and credited his 62, the lowest final-round score by a winner on tour this season, to his hot putter. Leishman needed only 24 putts in the final round, and he ripped off three straight birdies from the sixth to the eighth holes to make the turn in 30.

The gallery erupted when Leishman birdied the 17th hole to take sole possession of the lead at 14 under. He finished his round at 3:39 p.m. and then waited for others to falter.

At the start of the day, 17 golfers were within five shots of the leaders, Roland Thatcher and Brian Davis, both of whom were seeking their first victory. Thatcher and Davis struggled in shooting a final-round 70 and finished in a four-way tie for fourth with John Rollins and Tim Clark.

Bubba Watson, the 2010 Travelers champion, made a charge with a 65 but missed a 19-foot uphill birdie putt at the final hole that would have forced a playoff.

“Came up a little short,” said Watson, who finished at 13 under. “It was good fighting. It was good fun.”

Watson broke a spell of two missed cuts and had his best result since his Masters victory in April. The United States Open champion Webb Simpson ran out of steam and finished tied for 29th with a final-round 71.

Five golfers held at least a share of the lead during the final round. It appeared to be Hoffman’s day when he reeled off four birdies on the front nine and added three more early on the back side to reach 16 under.

The tournament turned for Hoffman at the par-4 17th hole.

The final holes at T.P.C. River Highlands are fraught with hazards that test not only the skills but also the nerves of a player. The 17th fairway chokes down to a narrow sliver of grass, and disaster awaits on either side, with a difficult fairway bunker to the left. It requires a golfer to place his tee shot judiciously, and Hoffman picked a bad time to spray his 2-hybrid into the lake that covers the right side of the 420-yard hole.

“I probably got a little quick, which is my tendency,” he said.

When Hoffman missed a 16-foot bogey putt, he dropped into a tie at 14 under with Leishman, the clubhouse leader.

“I can live with that,” Hoffman said of the double bogey. “I knew I still had a chance to win the tournament.”

Hoffman compounded his error, though, by fanning his tee shot to the right at the 444-yard, par-4 18th. His ball bounced off the cart path and settled in a difficult sidehill lie 150 yards away. The flagstick was set up in the front-left corner, protected by a sculptured bunker. Hoffman lofted his approach high and soft and came up short. He scooped his bunker shot 15 feet past the hole and missed his par putt, slipping to 13 under.

“Just back-to-back bad swings,” he said. He had one top-10 finish this year and was seeking his first win since 2010.

Thatcher had the last chance to tie Leishman after climbing to a shot off the lead with an 8-foot birdie at 17. But he also found the 18th’s front greenside bunker and made bogey. At last, Leishman could breathe easy. He was the champion.

“You never want to see anyone go through that,” Leishman said of Hoffman’s collapse. “You’d rather make some birdies coming in.”

No matter how he arrived at the victory, Leishman said, he was not going to give back the trophy.

Leishman predicted that back in his native Warrnambool, a coastal town of about 30,000 three hours from Melbourne, his parents, Paul and Pelita, went to bed with low expectations for his finish. Who could blame them?

“Yeah,” Leishman said. “They would have got a real shock when they woke up this morning.”
773 2012-06-25 The prekindergarten program, whose costs are split between the state and local governments, is far more expensive in New York than in other states, The New York Times reported this month.

The number of children in the program has risen slowly in recent years, but expenditures have climbed rapidly as children receive more expensive services.

The costs of the program in New York City have jumped to more than $1 billion this year, nearly double the amount six years ago. City officials say that when it comes to reining in the program they are constrained by state regulations, and maintain that influential lobbyists for private contractors have blocked reforms in Albany.

Contractors say that malfeasance is relatively rare and that the program makes financial sense because early intervention by specialists can avert more serious problems later.

Still, auditors say the system of reimbursing private contractors for their costs, and allowing them to pay back overcharges over time, encourages abuse.

Companies employing “special education itinerant teachers,” who provide individual instruction at homes, day-care centers or preschools, can charge as much as $122 an hour for these services, under rates set by the State Education Department. The annual bill sometimes exceeds $100,000 per child.

One specialist in the so-called SEIT program is Important Steps Inc., of the Bronx, whose billings grew from $1.6 million in 2006-7, its first school year in the program, to $5.7 million a year later. An audit by Mr. DiNapoli’s office of the company’s 2007-8 records found that it had overbilled by hundreds of thousands of dollars that year. The company improperly put in for reimbursement for its corporate income taxes, vehicles, office renovations and other items, auditors found.

The company’s owners, Zhanna (also known as Janet) Reznik and her husband, David Shapiro, also spent several thousand dollars on floor tiles, trees and shrubs to renovate and landscape their second home in the Poconos, according to the audit.

A lawyer and lobbyist for Important Steps, Pamela A. Madeiros, disputed some of the auditors’ findings, suggesting in a February letter that the vendor who sold Ms. Reznik and Mr. Shapiro their landscaping supplies was “confused,” and offering to take auditors on a walk through the Greentown, Pa. property to prove that “no such trees or bushes have been planted.”Auditors responded that they had already toured the property, escorted by the vendor, who “pointed out the trees, bushes, mulch and soil that he installed.”

Ms. Reznik and Mr. Shapiro were arraigned June 6 on five felony charges, including grand larceny, tampering with public records and filing false documents. They are scheduled to appear in Bronx Criminal Court on Monday.

Reached at her office, Ms. Reznik declined to comment.

Criminal charges were also filed against the owners of Special Education Associates Inc. of Brooklyn, which was one of the city’s busiest SEIT providers this year, with 170 children receiving instruction.

The audit found that the company’s owner, Samuel J. Bernstein, paid his wife, Deena, $150,000 a year as his assistant executive director, while she was earning $90,000 a year as a full-time professor of speech, language and hearing sciences at Lehman College of CUNY.

Mr. Bernstein pleaded guilty to defrauding the government, a felony, and was sentenced in December to five years’ probation. He also paid $610,000 in a civil settlement with the Manhattan district attorney’s office, agreed to a lifetime ban from the pre-K special education program, and sold the business.

His wife, who could not be reached Friday, is due in Bronx Criminal Court on Wednesday to face felony charges of grand larceny and defrauding the government.

Mr. Bernstein, reached at his home in Lawrence, N.Y., criticized the authorities for bringing criminal cases. “We compensated them for what they charged us, and it should have ended there,” he said.

He added that he was disappointed to leave the business, which he entered in 1995. “We did very good work for a very long time,” he said.

A third company, Capital District Beginnings of Troy, N.Y., will have to pay back $831,244 in disallowed expenses. Company representatives would not comment.

The company, which serves 800 children in a 12-county area that includes Albany, charged government $240,000 for salaries for its two co-owners, though they performed little work, auditors said.

One of them, Mary K. Garrett, had moved to South Carolina for health reasons but still received full-time pay and a company car.
774 2012-06-25 During the operation, Mr. Posivak said, the government agents told a group suspected of smuggling to surrender. Four of the suspects did so and were arrested, but a fifth reached for a holstered weapon. The American agent shot him before he could fire.

“The suspect, instead of surrendering, reached for his firearm,” Mr. Posivak said. “The other suspects surrendered, but this guy went for his gun.”

The team stayed on the site for several hours until a Honduran investigative team — including a judge, a prosecutor, and a medical examiner — arrived. The Honduran police later arrested six more people, he said.

Dawn Dearden, a spokeswoman for the D.E.A., confirmed the shooting and said that the D.E.A. agent was allowed to fire under the rules of engagement for such operations that were established by an agreement between the United States and Honduras.

“D.E.A. advisers participating in Honduran-led police operations are governed by strict procedures regarding use of force,” she said. “The agent involved in this incident fired in self-defense, as permitted under D.E.A. rules and those of the host country.”

Last month, a similar raid in the nearby village of Ahuas ended in a gunfight on a river in which four people were killed, leading to a dispute over whether they were involved in drug smuggling or were bystanders.

In that shooting, both the American and Honduran governments said that only Honduran police officers fired their weapons. A surveillance video of the incident showed that the gunfight began with a boat ramming a vessel carrying government forces and a seized shipment of cocaine.

A United States official said there was another joint mission in Honduras on June 13, although it did not involve gunfire. In that mission, an aircraft carrying drugs crashed in the Olancho area. Americans had been tracking the plane but did not shoot or force it down, the official said.

State Department helicopters carrying both Honduran police officers and D.E.A. agents went to the crash site, where they found the remains of two pilots and 41 kilograms of cocaine — the rest of the shipment having been burned in the crash, the official said.

The FAST squads receive military training and are led by a former Navy SEALs member. They work with specially vetted security units in host countries that they accompany on operations.

The FAST squads were developed for use in investigating Taliban-linked narcotics traffickers in Afghanistan, but over the past few years the United States has begun deploying them to smaller nations in the Western Hemisphere beset by drug cartels.

The first known gunfight in which FAST members were present was in Honduras in March 2011. Two suspected drug traffickers were killed and a Honduran police agent was injured.

This year, the frequency of such missions increased after the United States military built three “forward operating bases” in isolated parts of Honduras, increasing the opportunity to reach the sites quickly and intercept the drugs.
775 2012-06-25 That, in turn, has limited their ability to take the kinds of risks on hardware innovation that have helped define the iPad. Furthermore, with the iPad, Apple has proved that there are significant advantages to designing hardware and software together. When separate companies, each with its own priorities, handle those chores, integrating hardware and software can be more challenging.

“You’ve got this sclerotic partnership structure where the partners don’t have any oxygen to be innovative,” said Lou Mazzucchelli, an entrepreneur in residence for a venture capital fund backed by the state of Rhode Island and a former technology analyst. “I believe Microsoft was painted into a corner. If they’ve didn’t move soon, Apple would have so much of a lead, it would be almost impossible to catch them.”

Steven Guggenheimer, a Microsoft corporate vice president, said in a statement that the company’s hardware partners were not a factor in Microsoft’s decision to create a tablet computer of its own. “Microsoft has tremendous respect for our hardware partners and the innovation they bring to the Windows ecosystem,” Mr. Guggenheimer said. “We are looking forward to the incredible range of new devices they are bringing out for Windows 8.”

One of the best illustrations of how Microsoft came to the decision to create its new tablet, the Surface, is the company’s sometimes rocky relationship with Hewlett-Packard, the world’s biggest maker of PCs. Even before the iPad was announced in early 2010, Microsoft executives understood that computers were on the verge of a transformation, to touch-based controls from keyboards and mice.

A decade earlier, Bill Gates, Microsoft’s chairman, had even introduced a forerunner to the iPad — called the Tablet PC — but the product, manufactured by other hardware companies, was clunky. It was a flop.

In 2007, the iPhone opened the eyes of the technology industry to the possibilities of touch-based mobile devices. Microsoft included some crude touch capabilities in its Windows 7 operating system, released in 2009, though few users had computers that could take advantage of the features.

With rumors swirling about Apple’s pending introduction of the iPad, H.P. and Microsoft scrambled to create a new tablet computer, a prototype of which Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft’s chief executive, showed during a keynote speech at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas on Jan. 6, 2010.

When it came to making a finished device though, the H.P. tablet — later named the H.P. Slate 500 — began to change for the worse, according to the former Microsoft executive and a former H.P. executive who worked on the project and requested anonymity in discussing internal matters. While its early visual designs impressed many people within the two companies, the product was “completely ruined” as H.P.’s manufacturing organization began to procure the parts they believed would be sufficient to power the device, the former Microsoft employee said.

In the end, the H.P. tablet was thick, the Intel processor it used made the device hot, and the software and screen hardware did not work well together, causing delays whenever a user tried to perform a touch action on its screen. “It would be like driving a car, and the car not turning when you turn the wheel,” the former H.P. executive said.

That kind of problem was unacceptable, especially after Steven P. Jobs, then Apple’s chief executive, unveiled the first iPad, to glowing reviews, just three weeks after the H.P. device was shown.

Microsoft worked with other hardware partners to devise products that would be competitive with the iPad, but it ran into disagreements over designs and prices. “Faith had been lost” at Microsoft in its hardware partners, including by Steven Sinofsky, the powerful president of Microsoft’s Windows division, according to the former Microsoft executive.

H.P. fumed at Microsoft for not doing more to create Windows software that was better suited to touch-screen devices. Executives complained that Windows 7’s keyboard software did not work well, and that on-screen icons were too small for fingers to tap.

Microsoft refused to commit significant resources to help H.P., partly because the company was devoting its energy to Windows 8, a new version of its operating system being tailored for touch-screen devices.

A second former H.P. employee said the company and other computer makers needed more innovation from Microsoft than it was delivering. He said computer makers viewed the licensing fee they paid for Windows as a subsidy for Microsoft’s research and development, an investment that would enable them to have competitive products.

In April 2010, H.P. made a bold move to gain more control over the software powering its products by paying $1.2 billion to acquire Palm, maker of the WebOS operating system for mobile devices. An important factor in that decision was Microsoft’s repeated delays in releasing a new operating system for smartphones, which paralyzed partners like H.P., according to one of the former H.P. employees.

But poor sales of the WebOS tablet and smartphones doomed the effort. (It did not help that H.P. fired two chief executives during that period for unrelated reasons.) The company has released WebOS as open source software but no longer makes devices based on it. Last year, H.P. briefly contemplated spinning off its PC business before reconsidering the move.

Against this backdrop, Microsoft began to invest more in developing its own tablet hardware, though the company still had not decided whether to sell such a device itself or license it to others by the end of 2010, the former Microsoft executive said.

Some who study the technology industry still believe Microsoft will get out of the business of selling its own tablet computer as soon as it can persuade other hardware companies to build compelling devices of their own. “I think once they jump-start it, they plan to make money the way they always have — from licensing software,” said Michael A. Cusumano, a management professor at M.I.T.

In a nod to Apple’s work with aluminum, Microsoft began to closely study materials that could be used to create a distinctive case for a tablet. Members of the Windows team gravitated toward magnesium, a lightweight metal that felt good to testers when held in their hands, according to the former Microsoft executive.

Last week, Microsoft executives spent a significant portion of their presentation describing the magnesium case of Surface, which they described as strong and scratch-resistant. “The case is one-of-a-kind,” Mr. Sinofsky said, holding the gray device in his hands.
776 2012-06-25 “To the extent any third-party settlement seeks to divert funds” sought by the trustee, “we will have to consider taking appropriate steps,” said Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Mr. Picard and his law firm, Baker Hostetler.

In March 2009, Mr. Madoff confessed that he had operated a long-running Ponzi scheme, one that affected thousands of investors around the world. Cash losses in the scheme are estimated at a minimum of $17 billion, but the paper wealth wiped out by the fraud totaled more than $64 billion. Mr. Madoff is serving a 150-year sentence in a federal prison in North Carolina.

The attorney general’s settlement with Mr. Merkin would benefit investors in his four private funds: Ariel Fund Ltd., Gabriel Capital L.P., Ascot Fund Ltd. and Ascot Partners. According to Mr. Schneiderman, more than 10 percent of the money invested in those funds belonged to charities and other nonprofit institutions, including Bard College, New York Law School, the Harlem Children’s Zone and the Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty in New York.

“We have recovered over $400 million for the investors and charities that were harmed by history’s largest Ponzi scheme,” Mr. Schneiderman said. He called the agreement “a victory for justice and accountability” and added: “By holding Mr. Merkin accountable, this settlement will help bring justice for the people and institutions that lost millions of dollars.”

Andrew J. Levander, a lawyer for Mr. Merkin, said in a statement on Sunday that his client “is pleased to have achieved a resolution that is fair to his investors, many of whom are friends and institutions that he and his family have cared about deeply for generations.”

The state’s complex formula for distributing the money to Merkin investors calls for those who were not aware of Mr. Merkin’s ties to Mr. Madoff to recover a larger percentage of their losses than those who knew of Mr. Madoff’s involvement.

The funds will be distributed under the direction of David Pitofsky and Bart Schwartz, the receivers overseeing the liquidation of the Merkin funds, with New York State Justice Richard B. Lowe III, who approved the settlement, as the ultimate arbiter.

Mr. Merkin, an investment manager and philanthropist who was well known on Wall Street and served for many years as the president of the Fifth Avenue Synagogue, has denied any knowledge of Mr. Madoff’s fraud and any deceptive dealings with his own investors.

The lawsuit filed against Mr. Merkin by Mr. Picard, the bankruptcy trustee, seeks to recover $500 million to be added to the fund that Mr. Picard will ultimately distribute to all eligible Madoff investors through the bankruptcy court.

An aide to Mr. Schneiderman said on Sunday that the Merkin settlement was “structured in a way that didn’t require the approval” of Mr. Picard.

But Mr. Picard and his lawyers do not share that view — indeed, the trustee’s lawyers have been arguing privately against a separate state settlement with Mr. Merkin for more than a year.

In their view, Mr. Merkin’s management fees were paid with cash that Mr. Madoff stole from other people and paid out to Mr. Merkin’s investors. Therefore, they contend, any settlement with Mr. Merkin should benefit all eligible Madoff victims, not just Mr. Merkin’s clients.

Moreover, Mr. Picard is determined that all Madoff claims should be handled through the federal bankruptcy court, not through piecemeal litigation that benefits only small groups of investors. On those grounds, Mr. Picard’s lawyers have already gone to court to challenge a number of other separate legal actions involving Madoff claims.

This settlement is likely to be additionally contentious because it involves indirect Madoff victims, those who invested in a feeder fund that was a direct Madoff customer.

The federal bankruptcy judge handling the Madoff matter has ruled that indirect investors are not eligible for direct compensation and must wait to be compensated by the fund through which they invested. The New York State settlement seems to short-circuit that process for the subset of indirect investors who invested with Mr. Madoff through Mr. Merkin’s funds.

Ms. Remus, the trustee’s spokeswoman, said on Sunday night that Mr. Picard and his legal team would not comment directly on the settlement until they had a chance to see the final documents approved by the court.

But she noted that the trustee’s obligation was to seek funds “for equitable distribution” to all eligible Madoff victims. Mr. Picard’s position is that the “trustee’s claims, by law, take precedence,” she added.
777 2012-06-25 The creditors — the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund — are supposed to review Greece’s progress in installing the terms of a recent bailout package of 130 billion euros, or $173 billion, something that they have been unable to do for several months because of the political upheaval here.

The review must occur before the lenders can negotiate with the new government over whether to soften the bailout terms to reflect the continued downward spiral of the Greek economy.

In the interim, a billion euros, or $1.26 billion, in financing that the European Union withheld from Greece until a government was installed is scheduled to be released by the end of the month. The release may avert the possibility of Greece defaulting on some debt — at least for now. But Athens will get to keep only about 100 million euros, or about $125 million; the rest will go toward paying Greece’s contribution to the European Stability Mechanism.

With the Greeks struggling with deep salary cuts and tax increases, and the government running low on cash, Mr. Samaras has been eager to renegotiate the loan terms that require harsh austerity. On Saturday, his coalition government said it would seek to revoke certain taxes, ease the repayment terms for taxpayers who owe money to the state, suspend planned layoffs in the bloated public sector and extend the deadline for imposing additional austerity measures by two years.

But the talks cannot take place until Mr. Rapanos, a low-profile banker and finance professor who agreed to take an unpalatable job that few others want, is installed as finance minister.

Mr. Rapanos, 65, who is said to have a history of health problems, was supposed to be sworn in on Saturday. But he was rushed to a hospital on Friday after complaining of illness. Doctors said he was stable but would undergo additional tests and remain in the hospital until Monday night or Tuesday, pending the results.

Mr. Rapanos will be assuming a job that often involves 18-hour workdays. He will be Greece’s point man in negotiating with lenders, and he must immediately find more than 11 billion euros, or about $14 billion, worth of cuts to meet the bailout terms. He must figure out ways to replenish the government’s fast-dwindling Treasury, and hammer out plans to reverse an economic contraction of more than 6 percent and an unemployment rate that has reached 22 percent.

Mr. Samaras, 61, underwent a three-and-a-half-hour operation on Friday to repair 11 fissures to his retina, having campaigned with an eye injury until he won the prime minister’s position in last week’s pivotal elections.

Mr. Samaras’ doctor told him on Sunday not to move for several days, and urged him not to pursue plans to drive to the European summit meeting through the high altitude of the Italian Alps, saying that it would be as risky as flying.

But the German finance minister, Wolfgang Schäuble, issued Mr. Samaras a veiled warning on Sunday. In a newspaper interview in Bild am Sonntag, Mr. Schäuble urged Mr. Samaras to comply with terms of Greece’s bailout “quickly and without further delay instead of asking how much more others can do for Greece,” Reuters reported.

Mr. Samaras has appointed Foreign Minister Dimitris Avramopoulos to lead the Greek delegation to the meeting, which will include George Zannias, the outgoing caretaker finance minister; Christos Staikouras, the alternate finance minister; and the development minister, Costis Hatzidakis.

The coalition government said this weekend that its main goal was “tackling the crisis, opening the road to growth and revising the terms of the loan deal without putting at risk the country’s European course or its continued presence in the euro zone.”

The general aim, it added, “is for no more reductions to salaries and pensions and no more additional taxes.” But officials did not say where the money would come from. Greece is in its fifth year of a grinding recession. Tax receipts have diminished as salaries have been cut and thousands of businesses have folded, and international companies have sharply curtailed their business in Greece amid uncertainty about whether Athens might leave the euro zone.

That instability has fanned uncertainty in nations that use the common currency, as investors worry that Spain and Italy, two of the largest euro zone economies, may not be able to generate sufficient growth to pay down debt.

Greece’s new government is trying to ease public opposition to two years of austerity, which led to big vote tallies for parties opposed to the bailout in last Sunday’s elections and obliged the more established parties to forge a tenuous coalition.

But Greece’s creditors are unlikely to be overly flexible, aside from possibly agreeing to extend a deadline for meeting deficit targets.
778 2012-06-25 Frances W. Preston, who worked her way up from a radio-station mailroom to become one of the most influential figures in the music business, died on June 13 at her home in Nashville. She was 83.     Her death, from congestive heart failure, was an...
779 2012-06-26 Retail stock brokers now send many of their customers’ trades to Wall Street firms that execute the trades away from the regulated exchanges, playing into the broader growth of off-exchange or dark trading.
780 2012-06-26 Mitt Romney's past Swiss bank account seems to be gaining favor as Democrats' metaphor for depicting the Republican candidate as out of touch with average Americans....
781 2012-06-26 The legislation, which would block visas and freeze assets of those implicated in abuses, comes at a delicate moment in the relationship between the Obama administration and Russia....
782 2012-06-26 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. Tuesday's selection includes looking at Apple's retail operation, using supermarket cards to send targeted ads online and contacting famous ...
783 2012-06-26 The money market fund industry is pushing back against proposed regulations that could make the funds more stable for issuers and investors, but without reform, corporate America could suffer....
784 2012-06-26 Claire McCaskill of Missouri is fighting for re-election in a state leaning toward Mitt Romney in the polls and where three potential Republican challengers are all seeking Tea Party support....
785 2012-06-26 Producers in Spain recognize they need an overhaul -- one that will most likely involve making more, and better, white wines....
786 2012-06-26 Amar'e Stoudemire was fined $50,000 by the N.B.A. on Tuesday for using a homophobic slur to respond to a fan's taunt on Twitter....
787 2012-06-26 The importance of not going too fast....
788 2012-06-26 Tips on treats, toys and grooming from some of our favorite style-minded insiders....
789 2012-06-26 Louis C.K. is bypassing services like Ticketmaster and offering tickets to his next tour for a flat $45 through his own Web site....
790 2012-06-26 Democrats respond to comments made by Representative Darrell Issa, who said Sunday that the architects of "Fast and Furious" intended to use the operation to build a case for reinstating the lapsed ban on assault-weapons sales....
791 2012-06-26 How small-business issues are shaping politics and policy.
792 2012-06-26 June 26, 2012 - Why News Corporation may divide itself in two.
793 2012-06-26 June 26, 2012 - Google's artificial brain scours the Internet in search of ... cats.
794 2012-06-26 June 26, 2012 - The anxiety of being a digital parent.
795 2012-06-26 The Hockey Hall of Fame will name its 2012 inductees on Tuesday,...
796 2012-06-26 Why News Corporation may divide itself in two. | The anxiety of being a digital parent. | Google's artificial brain scours the Internet in search of ... cats.
797 2012-06-26 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
798 2012-06-26 With doctors expressing concern about the future of Jared Sullinger's back, the Ohio State forward has fallen from lottery pick to not even being invited to attend Thursday's N.B.A. draft....
799 2012-06-26 Credit Suisse, which announced a major restructuring effort last year, may reduce the work force of its European investment banking division by as much as 30 percent....
800 2012-06-26 State-mandated mediation between the City of Stockton and its creditors was set to expire at midnight on Monday, moving the Central Valley community one step closer to becoming the largest city in the country to go bankrupt. If the 90-day mediation fails, the City Council is set to vote Tuesday evening on a new budget to cover a $26 million deficit in case of bankruptcy. City officials would then have until July 1 to officially file for bankruptcy protection. Once a booming bedroom community for San Francisco Bay Area commuters, the city was hard hit by falling housing prices, enduring one of the highest foreclosure rates in the country. Since 2009, the city has cut some $90 million from its budget, including deep cutbacks to municipal staff, police and fire departments.
801 2012-06-26 The Chinese man who published photographs online of his wife and their dead fetus - government officials forced her to submit to an abortion at seven months - has gone missing after being tracked by security officials and thugs, according to his s...
802 2012-06-26 The truck’s new range-topper joins the Platinum, King Ranch, Lariat and Harley-Davidson models within the F-150 line....
803 2012-06-26 Requiring the police to determine the immigration status of people they stop or arrest if they suspect they are in the United States illegally.

Allowing the arrest without warrant of some people suspected of being deportable.

Making it a state crime for immigrants to seek or hold jobs without proper documents.

Making it a state crime for immigrants to fail to register with the federal government.

24 states introduced but did not enact bills with a provision

similar to at least one of the four Arizona provisions

considered by the Supreme Court, according to the American
804 2012-06-26 The court also allowed, and even invited, lawsuits against Arizona’s law that are based squarely on civil rights claims that it would lead to racial profiling against Latinos and other immigrants — issues that did not arise directly in the current case. Many civil rights groups, predicting that the police provision of the law would rapidly lead to discriminatory actions by officers once it takes effect, said on Monday that they were ready for that fight.

“If state governments enact new immigration bills, we say bring it on, we will see them in court,” said Anthony D. Romero, the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union. His organization has participated with other rights groups in a separate lawsuit against Arizona over the law, known as S.B. 1070, and against immigration enforcement laws in other states.

The Supreme Court struck down three central sections of Arizona’s law, which had been regarded by opponents as the most harsh. In allowing the “show-me-your-papers” provision to stand, the court accepted, for the time being at least, Arizona’s word that police officers would not engage in racial profiling as they put it into practice.

Both sides claimed on Monday that they had achieved important gains. Dan Stein, the president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, or FAIR, a group that supported Arizona, called the ruling “an important victory.”

“Even if the Obama administration refuses to enforce most immigration laws, states have the power to deter and discourage illegal aliens from settling or remaining within their jurisdictions,” Mr. Stein said.

He said the ruling, coupled with a Supreme Court decision last year that affirmed an Arizona law requiring employers to verify the legal immigration status of employees, gives states “broad latitude to carry out a policy of attrition through enforcement.”

Mr. Stein’s organization supported a small but determined corps of lawyers who created legal blueprints for Arizona’s and other state laws that were intended to drive out illegal immigrants by making daily life impossible for them in this country.

In Georgia, Gov. Nathan Deal, a Republican who signed an immigration enforcement law last year, welcomed the court’s decision more cautiously.

“It appears the court has upheld the major thrust of our state’s statute,” Mr. Deal said, “that states have the right to assist in enforcing federal immigration law.” An appeals court suspended parts of immigration enforcement laws in Georgia and in Alabama, awaiting the decision from the Supreme Court.

On the other side, Obama administration officials also offered praise. “I am pleased the Supreme Court confirmed that state laws cannot dictate the federal government’s immigration enforcement policies or priorities,” said Janet Napolitano, the secretary of homeland security.

To prove the point, officials from her agency announced that they were suspending seven joint agreements in Arizona under a program, known as 287g, in which they had deputized state and local police to detain illegal immigrants.

Homeland Security officials also said they will send a directive to federal agents in Arizona reminding them that to be consistent with the administration’s priorities, they should not pursue deportation of illegal immigrants who have not committed serious crimes or are not repeat offenders.

Lawyers for both sides, after digging down into the complex decision, were guarded in their assessments.

Calling the ruling a “qualified victory for Arizona,” Kris Kobach, a constitutional lawyer who helped to write S.B. 1070, said the court had avoided sweeping statements. Though affirming rights of states on immigration, he said, the court also “left open the possibility that a state action might not be permissible depending on whether it is cooperative” with federal efforts. Mr. Kobach is now the Kansas secretary of state.

Latino leaders said they were deeply dismayed that the Supreme Court had allowed the policing provision of the law to take effect.

“We believe it puts the civil rights of all Americans at risk and it places a bull’s-eye on the back of all Latinos,” said Janet Murguía, president of N.C.L.R., also called the National Council of La Raza, one of the nation’s largest Latino groups.

Mr. Romero said that the A.C.L.U. had raised a new “war chest” of $8.7 million to combat state immigration laws across the country. “The Supreme Court kicked the can down the road, opening the floodgates to racial profiling and years of litigation,” Mr. Romero said. “The constitutional sequel will be much more controversial, messy and costly.”

Officials in states that have adopted similar laws said they would have to sort through the court’s decision to determine exactly how their statutes would be affected. In Alabama, an especially far-reaching immigration law included provisions imposing mandatory penalties for businesses that hired unauthorized immigrants and requiring schools to check the immigration status of students, neither of which were in Arizona’s law.

In Utah, lawmakers avoided most of the pitfalls the court signaled in the provisions it struck down, Attorney General Mark Shurtleff said Monday.

Across a wide spectrum, politicians from President Obama to Gov. Nikki Haley of South Carolina, a Republican, said the decision should spur Congress to move on a broad overhaul of immigration laws.

At least eight states considered enforcement legislation this year. But as officials elsewhere have watched the polarized battles in Arizona, the mood appears to have changed. No state passed a law like Arizona’s.
805 2012-06-26 Tony Parker, the San Antonio Spurs point guard from France, could miss the London Olympics after his left eye was injured in a nightclub fight involving the singer Chris Brown and members of the hip-hop star Drake’s entourage. Parker’s cornea was scratched in the fight on June 15 at a club in Manhattan, and he said he had to have an operation to remove a shard that had “penetrated 99 percent” of his eye.

“I almost lost my eye,” Parker said in an interview posted on his Web site Sunday.

¶ Knicks forward Amar’e Stoudemire apologized to a fan for using a gay slur in response to a crude Twitter message in which the fan admonished Stoudemire to “make up for this past season.”

¶ The Atlanta Hawks hired Danny Ferry as president for basketball operations and general manager on Monday. He replaced Rick Sund, whose contract expires at the end of June. Ferry, 45, was the San Antonio Spurs’ vice president for basketball operations the last two years and the Cleveland Cavaliers’ general manager from 2005 to 2010.
806 2012-06-26 The new rules also give investigators from an intelligence agency the authority to call in anyone for a polygraph test about a particular leak, apart from a criminal leak investigation by the F.B.I., said Shawn Turner, the communications director for Mr. Clapper’s office.

The second step adjusts what could happen if the Justice Department decides not to bring criminal charges over a leak, as often occurs either because the identity of the leaker could not be proved or because a public trial would require divulging more secrets.

As in the past, the matter will go back to the agency that made the referral; in cases where a suspect was identified but not prosecuted, the agency can take administrative steps like issuing a letter of reprimand or firing the suspect.

Under the new rules, however, the national intelligence director can also ask I. Charles McCullough III, who was recently named to the new position of inspector general for the intelligence community as a whole, to investigate.

“This will ensure that selected unauthorized disclosure cases suitable for administrative investigations are not closed prematurely,” a news release from Mr. Clapper’s office said.

Mr. Turner said that because some intelligence secrets are shared among multiple agencies, it is sometimes complicated for the inspector general of a single agency to undertake an inquiry. The new step is intended to streamline that process by ensuring that it is coordinated by the inspector general who has authority over all the agencies.

The House Intelligence Committee chairman, Mike Rogers, Republican of Michigan, called Mr. Clapper’s move “a good first step,” but said that he and other members of Congress were examining possible additional legislation.

“The leaking of classified national security information is intolerable at any level, but the parade of recent leaks requires action,” he said in a statement. “We must break this culture of unauthorized disclosures.”

Mr. Rogers was among those who recently called for the appointment of special prosecutors with greater independence to handle leak investigations. Republicans have accused executive branch officials of leaking in order to make President Obama look tough in an election year. Mr. Obama has denied that the White House has done so.

Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. rejected calls for a special prosecutor but named two United States attorneys to oversee investigations thought to be focused on disclosures about a cyberwar against Iran and a double agent in Al Qaeda’s Yemen branch.

Leak cases have long been difficult to investigate and prosecute, though that task has become easier in recent years as a result of communications technology, like e-mail, that can show which officials, among hundreds who might have had access to certain information, were in contact with a reporter.

A Justice Department letter in April 2010 to a Senate committee said that from 2005 to 2009, intelligence agencies notified the department 183 times about leaks. From that pool of referrals, the F.B.I. opened 26 investigations, identifying 14 suspects.

The department has not responded to requests by The Times for statistics from more recent years about the number of referrals for leak investigations it has received, and any results.
807 2012-06-26 ATHENS — Greece’s designated finance minister resigned on Monday after being hospitalized, an unexpected blow to the new government of Prime Minister Antonis Samaras as it struggles to manage the country’s financial crisis.

The designated official, Vassilis Rapanos, 65, is also the chairman of National Bank, the country’s biggest lender. He has had a history of health problems, including cancer, according to Greek news media. On Friday, he was struck by intense abdominal pain, nausea, sweating and dizziness, and on Monday, according to state television, underwent a gastroscopy and colonoscopy.

On Monday, Mr. Rapanos sent a letter to Mr. Samaras saying that he had accepted the appointment “in full knowledge of the problems faced by our economy and the responsibility I was undertaking,” but that “after discussion with my doctors, I reached the conclusion that the state of my health, currently, will not allow me to fully and adequately exercise my duties.”

The resignation is an inauspicious start for Mr. Samaras’s new government as it tries to make good on campaign promises to get Greece’s creditors to ease harsh austerity terms linked to its multibillion-euro bailouts. Mr. Samaras is recovering from an emergency eye operation less than a week after Greece ushered in the new government, and now must scramble to find someone else to fill a post that few people are eager to take.

The finance minister plays a pivotal role in Greece, and is responsible for negotiating with its lenders. The government must immediately find about $14 billion worth of cuts to meet the bailout terms. Greece is quickly running out of cash, and any new official must devise plans to reverse an economic contraction of more than 6 percent and an unemployment rate that has reached 22 percent.
808 2012-06-26 The Supreme Court reversed a lower-court ruling that challenged its decision on Citizens United, a blockbuster campaign finance ruling....
809 2012-06-26 The Boston Tea Party Museum is set to reopen on Tuesday after a stalled and costly renovation, The Boston Globe reports. The floating museum, on the historic industrial Fort Point Channel, includes replicas of three ships and a recreation of the e...
810 2012-06-26 HBO generated a huge amount of talk - positive and negative - about its new Aaron Sorkin drama, ''The Newsroom,'' and it managed some better-than-average audience totals for its premiere Sunday night.     The drama, about a fictional cable newscas...
811 2012-06-26 The most common type of weight-loss surgery may increase the risk for alcohol abuse, a new study says.     Researchers prospectively followed 1,945 bariatric surgery patients, 1,360 of whom had had the Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, while 490 had a lap...
812 2012-06-26 -Round up the usual entertainment memorabilia collectors: The 1943 best director Oscar for ''Casablanca'' is on the auction block, the latest in a slew of little gold men from Hollywood's Golden Age to come up for sale.     -Nate D. Sanders, a Los...
813 2012-06-26 A new study published in PLoS One suggests that traffic noise may be more than just a nuisance. It may increase the risk for heart attack.     Danish scientists studied 57,053 residents of Copenhagen and Aarhus, ages 50 to 64 at the start of the s...
814 2012-06-26 THE FACTS     Soy milk, tofu and other soy products contain phytoestrogens, chemicals that can mimic the behavior of the hormone estrogen. Because estrogen fuels many breast cancers, soy has long been a source of concern: Can it heighten the risk ...
815 2012-06-26 Microsoft announced on Monday that it would buy Yammer, a social network service for businesses, for $1.2 billion in cash, as it seeks to strengthen its enterprise software business and compete more directly with Salesforce.com.     Under the term...
816 2012-06-26 McCARTHY--John F. (Jack), Jr.,attorney and former Chairman of the New Jersey State Commission of Investigation, died on June 22 at his home in Princeton, NJ after a long illness. He was 90. Mr. McCarthy was born on Charlton Street in Princeton, th...
817 2012-06-27 A coalition of labor unions and other groups critical of the practice called for a ban on racial profiling and the establishment of an inspector general in the Police Department....
818 2012-06-27 More than 500 comments were posted, most of them critical of the New York Police Department practice....
819 2012-06-27 How post-traumatic stress disorder is defined and treated is an issue likely to affect generations of taxpayers to come, a combat veteran argues....
820 2012-06-27 A bookstore and arts space specializes in hard-to-find international magazines, monographs, and limited-edition art....
821 2012-06-27 Health authorities are growing increasingly concerned about poisonings from a new type of laundry detergent that is sold in brightly colored packets that are small enough to fit in a child’s palm and may be mistaken for candy....
822 2012-06-27 European leaders put pressure on Angela Merkel over debt. The cable industry's efforts to put a meter on your broadband bill. What happens if News Corporation splits up....
823 2012-06-27 The Euro 2012 match went to a shootout that Spain won, 4-2, heading to Kiev for the final against the winner of Germany’s match against Italy on Thursday....
824 2012-06-27 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
825 2012-06-27 Lynn A. Stout, a professor at Cornell Law School, says the idea that companies should be run for the sole purpose of returning value to shareholders has worked out horribly....
826 2012-06-27 The play, about growing up female in disparate cultures, will open at the Signature Center's Linney Theater in November....
827 2012-06-27 European leaders put pressure on Angela Merkel over debt. | The cable industry's efforts to put a meter on your broadband bill. | What happens if News Corp. splits up.
828 2012-06-27 The average hourly rate for a home-based health aide is about $21, while the average rate for a homemaker or companion is $19, according to a report....
829 2012-06-27 MultiFunding has introduced a system that grades every bank in the country on its small-business lending. Not everyone approves....
830 2012-06-27 Why do scientists choose to study creepy animals?...
831 2012-06-27 Calling for readers' suggestions on improving the Indian economy....
832 2012-06-27 Credit: Robert Stolarik for The New York Times
833 2012-06-27 A state appellate court ruled on Tuesday that a New York City police officer who found a concealed handgun on a 14-year-old in the Bronx during a stop-and-frisk encounter in 2010 did not have sufficient cause to search him, and reversed his conviction.

The decision, the latest legal attack on the New York Police Department’s large-scale frisking of people in crime-troubled neighborhoods, sharply divided a five-judge panel of the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court for the First Department, which covers Manhattan and the Bronx.

The majority opinion in the 3-to-2 decision, written by Justice Peter Tom, said a Family Court judge had erred in finding that the arresting officer could frisk someone “under the guise that the officer claimed to perceive some threat to his personal safety.”

The judges held that the lower court’s ruling would broadly expand the power of the police to frisk people.

“The gradual erosion of this basic liberty can only tatter the constitutional fabric upon which this nation was built,” the opinion said. “The ramifications go far beyond this single case.”
834 2012-06-27 “The court has opened the door for us to proceed now with the rest of our constitutional claims,” said Marielena Hincapié, executive director of the National Immigration Law Center in Los Angeles, which brought challenges against Arizona’s law and similar statutes in five other states. “This type of law is almost impossible to enforce in a racially neutral way, without leading to civil rights violations against people of color,” she said.

On the other side, supporters of Arizona’s statute said the Supreme Court’s decision would compel them to pursue a new line of legal attack, focusing on what they contend is overreaching by the Obama administration, which they believe the justices encouraged. In its opinion the court broadly endorsed the administration’s argument that immigration policy and enforcement are primarily the province of the federal government, not the states.

“The administration is relying on a claim that they have discretion to enforce immigration law,” said Michael M. Hethmon, general counsel of the Immigration Reform Law Institute in Washington, a group that helped Arizona and many other states to write their own immigration enforcement laws. “And they are using that claim to really massively expand their direct power.”

Mr. Hethmon’s institute is the legal branch of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, one of the nation’s most influential groups seeking reduced immigration.

Five other states have enacted laws that are some variation of Arizona’s: Alabama, Georgia, Indiana, South Carolina and Utah. Civil rights groups have challenged those laws, and federal courts have suspended some or all of their provisions.

The Obama administration, in its case against Arizona — the first challenge to rise to the Supreme Court — relied almost exclusively on the argument that the state law was invalid because it was in conflict with federal policy.

Before the administration filed its suit in 2010, civil rights organizations — including Ms. Hincapié’s center; the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, known as Maldef; and the American Civil Liberties Union — brought a separate lawsuit against S.B. 1070. That case, on behalf of labor unions, business groups, churches and immigrant organizations, claims the Arizona law “will subject many persons of color,” including Americans and legal immigrants, “to racial profiling and to unlawful interrogations, searches, seizures and arrests.”

The federal court put that lawsuit in abeyance while the Obama administration’s case moved forward. But after the Supreme Court’s decision, Ms. Hincapié said, the civil rights case can advance again.

The Supreme Court decision heightened attention on Alabama, where lawmakers last year passed an immigration law tougher than Arizona’s. While authorizing the police to check immigration status, the law also restricted business contracts and transactions with illegal immigrants, and required public schools to check the status of students.

This year, the Alabama Legislature added provisions to make the law even more strict. Based on challenges from rights groups, federal courts suspended many provisions but allowed the “show me your papers” section to stand, making Alabama the only state where such a law has gone into effect.

Alabama officials and lawmakers said they were both heartened and worried by the court’s decision.

“The Supreme Court came down solidly committed to both sides, not solidly for either side,” said State Senator Scott Beason, a Republican who was a leading sponsor of the immigration bill. “I was hoping for a more definitive set of guidelines,” he said.

Rights organizations, including the Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery, brought two lawsuits against Alabama, both including extensive civil rights claims. They won one round, in which a federal court found the law unfairly prevented illegal immigrants from obtaining license plates for mobile homes.

Alabama officials said they were studying the Supreme Court decision to decipher its impact on the state law.

“The people of Alabama want a strong anti-illegal-immigration law,” said Gov. Robert Bentley, a Republican. “I will keep my commitment to uphold and enforce Alabama’s law.”

Mr. Hethmon, of the Immigration Reform Law Institute, said the group was preparing “creative legal strategies” to directly contest the Obama administration’s view that it can use its federal authority to exercise wide prosecutorial discretion in setting deportation policy. The administration has said it will focus on removing illegal immigrants who are criminals, while sparing others with no criminal records.

Mr. Hethmon said he would also be advising states on how to devise policing statutes similar to Arizona’s so they will be fully consistent with the Supreme Court’s guidance.

Civil rights lawyers said they will not give up on trying to stop the policing provision of S.B. 1070, which the Supreme Court upheld, from taking effect. They contend the court’s opinion pointed to new limits it wanted to impose on the law.

“We feel strongly this law should not be implemented,” said Thomas A. Saenz, general counsel of Maldef. “The irreparable harms are just too severe.”
835 2012-06-27 Rescue workers equipped only with hand-held tools gave up their search on Tuesday and waited for bulldozers to help find about 100 people who residents said were missing the day after landslides struck the mountainous eastern district of Bududa. A government official called the region a “death trap” and said the government would move out residents. The Uganda Red Cross has confirmed 18 deaths. Residents of the village of Bunamulembwa said close to 100 people, mostly children, were missing.
836 2012-06-27 Thousands of Kuwaitis protested on Tuesday against a court ruling that effectively dissolved a Parliament dominated by opposition Islamists and reinstated the previous, more government-friendly, assembly. The protesters packed the square opposite Parliament, chanting, “We will not surrender,” after lawmakers denounced the ruling as a coup.
837 2012-06-27 In the past, the exchanges have pushed regulators to force the dark markets to become better lit, but James Allen, the head of capital markets policy for the CFA Institute, said that with the new proposals the exchanges are acknowledging “that if you can’t beat them, join them.”

In doing so, they are ready to take a turn away from the idea of stock exchanges as places where all investors come together in the open and on equal footing.

“It could forever change what an exchange is and how it serves different factions of investors,” said Christopher Nagy, the founder of KOR Trading, a firm that advises exchanges and brokers. “This proposal essentially says maybe not all people are equal.”

The regulators have until July 7 to decide on the New York Stock Exchange proposal, and it is far from certain that it will win approval. But industry insiders say that even if it is rejected, the plans are forcing regulators to decide how they will deal with the vast transformation of the nation’s stock markets in the last few years.

Since a crucial regulatory change was made in 2007, the nation has gone from having two major stock exchanges to having 13 public exchanges, as well as dozens of trading platforms where stocks are traded away from the public eye.

Regulators have not stood in the way of these changes, but they have expressed their discomfort with the complex current market structure, and their uncertainty about how to deal with it.

Duncan L. Niederauer, the chief executive of NYSE Euronext, said in a Congressional hearing last Wednesday that the operators of off-exchange trading platforms are under less stringent oversight than the exchanges. He said that regulators should either tighten the rules on dark trading platforms or let the exchanges look more like those platforms.

The competition among platforms is credited with bringing down the cost of trading for investors of all types. But the fragmentation of the markets is also blamed for making the market infrastructure more prone to break down, as it did in the flash crash of May 2010, when stock prices plunged nearly 10 percent in 15 minutes. It happened again when the Nasdaq exchange botched the initial public offering of Facebook in May. The rise of the dark markets has also fed concerns about whether the prices of stocks can be manipulated more easily.

The practice of diverting retail shares away from public markets and into financial firms is called “internalization.” Bernard L. Madoff is credited with inventing the practice in the early 1990s through his legitimate trading firm, which was on a different floor from his Ponzi investment scheme.

Mr. Madoff realized that his firm had better indications of which way stocks were moving than did the retail investors. If his traders could see that shares in a particular company were about to tick up, they could quickly buy shares from a retail trader offering the shares at a slightly lower price and then turn around and immediately sell them for the higher price. The profits made it worth it to pay retail brokers to get the orders.

The practice took off after a series of regulatory changes over the last decade made it easier to trade off exchanges and more expensive to trade on exchanges. Today, four firms — Knight Capital Group, UBS, Citigroup and Citadel — have made a business out of paying for retail trades and trading against them. These firms generally pay retail brokers 15 cents for every 100 shares they are sent to trade against, industry experts say.

The internalizers were caught in the Facebook initial public offering. They paid to trade against all retail investors clamoring for Facebook shares, but when the Nasdaq exchange broke down just as trading opened, they were left holding the shares. Knight Capital has said it lost around $35 million in the incident.

Some critics say that internalization is a problem because the payments the brokers receive are not passed along to the customers. The internalizers also create an incentive for retail brokers to send orders to the place where they can get the biggest payment, rather than the trading platform providing the best price.

The retail brokers contend that the internalizers allow them to get the quickest and best execution for their customers.

Exchanges have struggled to compete with internalizers because they are not allowed to trade at any price other than the publicly listed price, which is what ordinary investors see when they look at stock prices online. Internalizing firms and other players in dark markets can offer to provide a better price, even if it is just a fraction of a penny.

The internalizers will execute the trade only if their market intelligence tells them that the market is about to move in their favor, allowing them to quickly flip the trade. If the internalizers don’t want to trade against the order themselves they usually circulate it to other brokers and dark pools. Only the hardest retail orders to handle — what the exchanges refer to as “toxic order flow” — make it to the exchanges.

The NYSE Euronext plan would offer to segment retail orders into a sequestered area where registered firms could offer to trade at a price slightly better than the listed price. The orders to buy and sell would not be visible to the public.

Nasdaq has not unveiled its plan but people with direct knowledge said it would look somewhat similar and involve a mini-auction any time a retail order came in.

Some internalizing firms have expressed opposition to the plans of the exchanges. But the proposals have also come under fire from market watchers who worry about the direction the industry is taking.

Mr. Allen of the CFA Institute, which represents investors, said he understands that the exchanges need to be able to compete, but he does not want to see them accelerate the movement of markets into the dark.

“We want whatever comes out of this to be more transparent rather than less transparent,” he said.
838 2012-06-27 The Supreme Court has upheld the most damaging element of SB 1070, Arizona’s cruel anti-immigrant law. The “show me your papers” provision allows law enforcement to profile people based on the color of their skin.

A community in which racial profiling is permitted — even invited — is a community deprived of its basic right to safety and dignity. And such laws have a particular impact on women and families. Under the constant threat of police harassment and possible detention, even simple daily outings — running errands, driving to work, grocery shopping, taking your child to the doctor — become fraught with fear and very real risk.

In Alabama, mothers drop their children off at school not knowing if they’ll be back to pick them up. Some families no longer go out at all.

President Obama, in having moved to protect young immigrants from unwarranted deportation, is correct: “We are a better nation than one that expels innocent young kids.” But are we so much better for continuing to harass and deport their mothers?

We must take heart in that two-thirds of American voters support Mr. Obama’s plan for young immigrants. And we must take action to protect the rights of all women, men and children who call America home.
839 2012-06-27 But the Port Authority, which saw it as a chance to replace the thousands of manufacturing jobs that had vanished from the neighborhood, was.

Since 2008, the authority has invested more than $30 million in the 3M redevelopment, which has received financing from federal, state and local governments, including $5.2 million in grants and loans from the Environmental Protection Agency for assessments and cleanup at the site. After a century of industrial use of the site, the soil was polluted with solvents, heavy metals and other contaminants.

The authority did not expect neighborhood opposition to its efforts, but perhaps it should have.

3M was founded in 1902 and was a major presence on the city’s East Side from 1910 into the 2000s. Now based in Maplewood, Minn., 3M employed nearly 5,000 workers in the 1940s at the site, and many East Siders still feel a strong connection to the company, the site and its structures.

More than 200 people attended a community meeting in 2008 on the Port Authority’s plans for the site, and they were upset to learn that the agency planned to demolish all the buildings to create the new business park.

“The Port Authority does some really terrific work, but they have a system, and it involves scraping sites and making things into something else,” said Kathy Lantry, the president of the St. Paul City Council and a Port Authority commissioner. “It’s very different when you’re doing that with an old junkyard or brownfield, versus 3M.”

Those emotions caught the Port Authority by surprise. “We were so excited about the project that it didn’t even register with us until we got smacked in the face with it,” Monte Hilleman, the Port Authority’s project manager for the office park, called Beacon Bluff, said of the opposition. “It was very eye-opening.”

Residents and preservationists, then stinging from the loss of a local bar demolished by the Port Authority, say nearly the same thing. “It was a wake-up call,” said Carol Carey, executive director of Historic Saint Paul, a preservation group.

Andrew Hine, a St. Paul native and second-generation 3M employee who started a Facebook page to lobby for saving the headquarters structure and others on the site, said: “Building 21 is a very special place, for many reasons. A lot of innovative things happened at that site, so it’s not just for architectural reasons that I want them saved. History in itself is an economic driver, and with none, no one will want to visit or live here.”

In 2010, the neighborhood won a reprieve of sorts for the four buildings in the historic core of the property. The Port Authority agreed to market the structures for two years in the hopes of finding a preservation-minded buyer. But it faced difficulties because of low demand for commercial space in the Twin Cities, real estate financing challenges, brownfield problems and the weak national economy.

Enter James A. Stolpestad, a St. Paul real estate developer with deep roots in the city and an appreciation of the site’s importance to residents. “Everywhere you go, 3M is very much a part of St. Paul,” said Mr. Stolpestad, the chairman of Exeter Realty.

In 2010, Mr. Stolpestad struck an agreement with the Port Authority that allowed him a year to evaluate the historic structures and market them to prospective tenants. That deal was restructured and renewed in 2011; Mr. Stolpestad expects to close on the 5.8-acre parcel this fall. (The Port Authority still has more than 30 acres available for sale at Beacon Bluff; it has sold two parcels already to an ambulance firm and a health clinic.)

The price? One dollar, as long as Mr. Stolpestad’s still-unchosen tenants meet the Port Authority’s economic goals of creating at least one job per 1,000 square feet of building space, paying at least $11 hourly plus benefits, and hiring St. Paul residents for 70 percent or more of the new jobs created.

The jewel of the project is Building 21, the former global headquarters of 3M, and the only building eligible for historic designation on the site. It has about 75,000 square feet of space, in the coveted midcentury modern style.

The original mahogany paneling still graces the office of William McKnight, who retired as chairman of the board in 1966 after beginning his 3M career in 1907 as an assistant bookkeeper, as well as his secretary’s office and the 53-foot-by-20-foot boardroom. Renovating the building will be the responsibility of Mr. Stolpestad, who expects to spend about $1.5 million. He estimates the space will lease for $10 net per square foot.

The other three industrial structures near Building 21 were not so lucky; the agency is in the process of tearing those down to clear the land for parking for Building 21’s future tenants. “They are cool buildings,” Mr. Stolpestad said of the former sandpaper factories. “If they were in a different location and you had unlimited funds, you could rent them out. But you can’t do that here because the cost would be prohibitive.”
840 2012-06-27 Home prices rose in April for the third consecutive month, the latest indication that a recovery in the housing market was gaining traction.

But in a sign of the struggles still facing the broader economy, a separate report on Tuesday showed that consumer confidence fell to its lowest level in five months in June.

The Standard & Poor’s/Case-Shiller composite index of prices in 20 metropolitan areas rose 0.7 percent in April from March on a seasonally adjusted basis, topping economists’ expectations for a 0.4 percent gain.

Compared with a year earlier, however, home prices declined 1.9 percent in the 20 cities. Still, that year-over-year pullback in prices was better than economists’ expectations for a decline of 2.5 percent, and an improvement from the 2.6 percent annual decline seen in March.

Six years after the housing market’s collapse sent prices down more than 30 percent, recent data suggests the sector has finally hit bottom with leaner inventories and record-low mortgage rates encouraging buying.

“The housing recovery in this cycle has been painfully slow to develop, but it is unmistakably here,” said Chris Low, chief economist at FTN Financial.
841 2012-06-27 TEHRAN — Iran’s vice president delivered a baldly anti-Semitic speech on Tuesday at an international antidrug conference here, saying that the Talmud, a central text of Judaism, was responsible for the spread of illegal drugs around the world.

European diplomats in attendance expressed shock. Even Iranian participants in the conference, co-sponsored by Iran and the United Nations, privately wondered at their government’s motive for allowing such a speech, even given its longstanding antagonism toward Israel. More than 25,000 Jews live in Iran, and they are recognized as a religious minority, with a representative in Parliament.

The speech by Vice President Mohammad-Reza Rahimi seemed bound to isolate Iran further just days before a new set of onerous Western economic sanctions, notably a European embargo on Iranian oil, is set to be enforced because of the longstanding dispute over Iran’s nuclear program. Iran says the program is peaceful, and Western nations and Israel suspect it is a cover to develop the ability to make nuclear weapons.

Mr. Rahimi, second in line to President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, said the Talmud teaches to “destroy everyone who opposes the Jews.”

The “Zionists” are in firm control of the illegal drug trade, Mr. Rahimi said, asking foreign dignitaries to research his claims. “Zionists” is Iran’s ideological term for Jews who support the state of Israel.
842 2012-06-27 In 2009 and 2010, Congress debated whether to legislate limits on carbon dioxide emissions, with backers arguing that imposing agency rules instead would be clumsy and expensive. The House passed a bill, but the legislative effort died in the Senate.

“This decision ensures that a regulatory approach to emissions cuts will take place, whether or not Congress acts legislatively,” said Paul Bledsoe, a senior adviser at the Bipartisan Policy Center, a nonprofit group that specializes in energy and environmental issues. “The question is, does the industry push Congress to develop a more efficient, less costly approach now that regulation is inevitable?”

But Representative Fred Upton, the Michigan Republican who is chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said that Congress’s refusal to approve greenhouse gas limits constituted a decision and that lawmakers should act now to reverse the E.P.A. emissions rules. Carbon regulation “threatens to drive energy prices higher, destroy jobs and hamstring our economic recovery,” he said.

Industry is divided on regulating climate-changing gases, with the oil, gas, coal and most of the electricity sectors opposing emissions limits and automakers supporting them. In a statement, the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers noted that car companies had made huge investments to improve fuel economy and thus reduce carbon dioxide emissions and that a unified emissions standard was among its “top national priorities.”

At the National Association of Manufacturers, Jay Timmons, the president and chief executive, called the ruling “a setback for businesses facing damaging regulations from the E.P.A.” The Clean Air Act was not designed for greenhouse gases, he said.

Environmental groups cheered the decision. “This is a slam-dunk victory for E.P.A. and for the Clean Air Act,” said Frank O’Donnell, the president of the group Clean Air Watch.

Joseph Mendelson III, a lawyer with the National Wildlife Federation who was involved in persuading Massachusetts to file a suit demanding that the E.P.A. regulate greenhouse gases, noted how long the battle over climate-altering gases had dragged on.

The decision “puts to rest the big polluters’ attempts to deny the E.P.A.’s ability to limit carbon pollution,” he said. But, five years after the pivotal Supreme Court decision, legal squabbles are still “delaying the obvious and prevent us from getting to the question of how do we best do it,” he said.

The panel’s opinion was unsigned. The chief judge, David B. Sentelle, was appointed by President Ronald Reagan; he was joined by two Clinton appointees, David S. Tatel and Judith W. Rogers.

The politics of carbon dioxide regulation have grown more partisan over the years. When Massachusetts first brought the case that led to the landmark Supreme Court decision, its governor was Mitt Romney. As the presumptive Republican nominee for president, he has since backed away from his earlier position that human-caused global warming is under way.

According to his Web site, one of his policy goals now is to amend the Clean Air Act, the critical law under which the E.P.A. is now acting, “to exclude carbon dioxide from its purview.”
843 2012-06-27 Major stock indexes in the United States rebounded from Monday’s sell-off, as optimism about the housing market tempered concern about a worsening of Europe’s debt crisis.

Shares of News Corporation rose 8.3 percent after reports that the company, controlled by Rupert Murdoch, was considering splitting into two publicly held corporations.

Apollo Group, the profit-making college chain, surged 10 percent after beating earnings and revenue estimates and raising its forecast. A measure of home builders in Standard & Poor’s indexes jumped 3.8 percent as housing prices dropped at the slowest pace in more than a year.

The S.& P. 500-stock index finished the day up 0.5 percent to 1,319.99, after tumbling 1.6 percent on Monday. Still, amid concern about a global economic slowdown, the benchmark measure is on pace for the first quarterly slump since September. Energy, financial and technology shares have had the biggest losses so far in the second quarter, tumbling at least 9.5 percent.

The Dow Jones industrial average increased 32.01 points, or 0.3 percent, to 12,534.67. The Nasdaq composite index was up 0.63 percent, or 17.90 points, to 2,854.06. Volume for exchange-listed stocks was about six billion shares, or 12 percent below the three-month average.
844 2012-06-27 “He is a person who can inspire respect and trust in negotiating crucial economic issues with the troika,” said Basil Dalamagas, an economics professor at the University of Athens, where Mr. Stournaras has taught macroeconomics since 1989.

One of Mr. Stournaras’s first tasks will be to talk formally with Greece’s lenders. Mr. Samaras won his recent election victory on pledges to push back some of the more onerous austerity requirements attached to the country’s $170 billion bailout.

Mr. Stournaras will have to immediately find more than $14 billion worth of cuts to meet the bailout terms.

He will need to figure out how to replenish the government’s fast-dwindling treasury at a time when the economy has contracted more than 6 percent and unemployment has reached 22 percent.

The urgency of the situation hit home Tuesday around 12:45 p.m., less than 12 hours after Mr. Rapanos resigned. Mr. Stournaras, who was at a book presentation in central Athens, received a call from Mr. Samaras asking him to take the position. “He told us he had just received a call saying, ‘Don’t you dare say no,’ ” said Raphael Moissis, the deputy head of the research group, who was present.

Speaking at the book presentation, Mr. Stournaras said he was optimistic about his new job despite the difficulties. “I think there are possibilities for Greece to emerge from the crisis,” he said. “Greece has enormous potential, but we must pass through a wall of established ways of thinking if Greece is to change.”

The new finance minister, who has yet to be sworn in, will not travel to a European Union leaders’ summit meeting on Thursday, where his predecessor, George Zanias, the departing caretaker finance minister, will represent Greece as part of a delegation led by President Karolos Papoulias. The president is standing in for Mr. Samaras, who has been advised against traveling after an operation for a detached retina.

Meanwhile, in the latest blow to Greece’s fragile new government, Giorgos Vernikos, deputy minister for Greece’s merchant marine ministry, resigned Tuesday. The reason was not given, but the news came a few hours after the leftist opposition party Syriza issued a statement saying that there was a conflict of interest, citing the minister’s involvement with an offshore business.

Mr. Samaras met his coalition partners — Evangelos Venizelos, leader of the Socialist Pasok party, and Fotis Kouvelis, chief of the Democratic Left — along with Mr. Stournaras on Tuesday evening to discuss the political situation and strategy ahead of the summit meeting.

Leaving the meeting, Mr. Stournaras promised “hard work” but refused to respond to reporters’ questions about the type of fiscal policies he was planning to carry out or his thoughts ahead of a visit by officials representing Greece’s international creditors, who will consider its request for the easing of some of the terms of the debt deal.

While he has condemned across-the-board austerity measures for deepening Greece’s economic troubles and defeating the overall goal of mending the nation’s finances, Mr. Stournaras has also long insisted that the only way Greece can get back on its feet is to pursue the types of unpalatable structural reforms that Greece’s lenders are pressing on the nation.

For instance, he has argued that Greece could add 15 percent to its gross domestic product over time if the government would seriously enforce reforms, like opening up protected jobs — including those of lawyers, taxi drivers and notaries — to free-market competition. He has urged freeing up capital for the shipping industry and pressing ahead with targeted reductions throughout Greece’s bloated government.

At a time when Greeks have seen their salaries cut by up to 50 percent and unemployment soar, those formulas may not sit well with the public.

Still, Mr. Stournaras was one of the sole voices to have warned back in 2009 — the year before Greece’s first bailout — that the policies of consumption and borrowing being pursued to pump up Greece’s economy were swiftly leading it toward a precipice.

These days, he has also been calling on Germany to stop resisting euro bonds, a move that many economists say would help stem the spread of Europe’s long-running debt crisis. And he has signaled a desire to push ahead with privatizations of a number of state assets, including vast tracts of idle land owned by the state. Such a move could raise billions of euros to replenish Greece’s coffers.

If Mr. Stournaras does things right and inspires confidence, good things might happen for Greece, said Mr. Moissis, the deputy head of Mr. Stournaras’s research group. “If you take away the lack of confidence that has plagued Greece, there are good investments to be made, and the cost of labor is being controlled,” he said. “If we can get confidence in his fellow ministers, too, we could get some surprises.”
845 2012-06-27 TOKYO — A heavily damaged reactor building at the tsunami-stricken Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant has a slight tilt, but the tilt does not pose a risk to the integrity of the building, according to the plant’s operator.

The Tokyo Electric Power Company, or Tepco, said in a report on Monday to Japanese nuclear regulators that at least two of the walls of the No. 4 reactor building are bulging outward at various points and that the building is tilting. The biggest bulge measured about 1.8 inches about a third of the way up the building, the report said.

The latest findings could add to concerns over the state of the No. 4 reactor building, which houses on its upper floors a cooling pool filled with 1,331 spent and 204 unused nuclear fuel assemblies. Each assembly contains approximately 50 to 70 rods.

Some experts say that the building — ravaged in a hydrogen explosion in the early days of the disaster in March 2011 — is not strong enough to support the fuel pool, especially if another earthquake hits the region.

Damage to the pool or loss of cooling could lead the spent fuel to overheat, releasing large amounts of radiation into the environment, the experts warn. Tepco has announced that it will start work to remove the spent fuel rods later this year, earlier than initially planned. However, other experts warn against removing fuel rods too hastily, which might pose its own risks.
846 2012-06-27 Adam Smith, a former portfolio manager at the Galleon Group hedge fund who provided the government with crucial assistance in prosecuting his onetime boss, Raj Rajaratnam, avoided prison on Tuesday when a judge sentenced him to two years' probatio...
847 2012-06-27 Amar'e Stoudemire was fined $50,000 by the N.B.A. on Tuesday for using a homophobic slur in response to a fan's taunt on Twitter.     Stoudemire, the Knicks' star forward, used the offensive term, as well as another profanity, in a private message...
848 2012-06-27 Money market funds are what investors use to earn a few tenths of a percentage point of interest.     Yet in such a quiet, if not boring, corner of the financial products universe, a ferocious battle is being fought between the industry and regula...
849 2012-06-27 On Wall Street, it's called the ''Murdoch discount.''     That's the view that the shares of News Corporation trade lower than the intrinsic value of its many media assets because of the control exerted by Rupert Murdoch. Because of his hold, the ...
850 2012-06-27 BOSTON - A joke by President Obama in the heart of Red Sox Nation provoked punditry on Tuesday, as campaign aides and journalists took to Twitter to debate whether Mr. Obama had been booed by guests at a fund-raiser here on Monday night.     At th...
851 2012-06-28 June 27, 2012 - The cable industry's efforts to put a meter on your broadband bill.
852 2012-06-28 Up Next in Business
853 2012-06-28 Advocates for the elderly largely applauded the Supreme Court decision upholding the Affordable Care Act, saying Medicare beneficiaries would see benefits both now and later....
854 2012-06-28 For years, unemployed Americans have complained that even as companies have been doing so well, workers' own fortunes have stagnated. Now corporate profits are dragging, too....
855 2012-06-28 Even as she spreads herself across numerous formats, Casady is a prolific artist, consistent in her voice....
856 2012-06-28 The Philadelphia Orchestra had endured years of declining ticket sales and donations, resulting in mounting losses and bankruptcy....
857 2012-06-28 The search warrants used to carry out a raid on the service were found to be illegal, the chief judge of a High Court in New Zealand ruled. Also, Yahoo moves toward Spotify and iHeartRadio, and away from Rhapsody....
858 2012-06-28 A round-up of Times coverage that discusses what President Obama's health care law means for consumers....
859 2012-06-28 David Pogue gets bombarded by product pitches. Here are 300-character versions of some of the more interesting ideas that he has seen recently....
860 2012-06-28 Despite an embarrassment of rested riches, Germany came up short against Italy, who moves on to the final in Kiev against Spain....
861 2012-06-28 In Paris for the men's and couture shows? Canal St. Martin, wildly popular for apéros and waterside picnics, is quickly becoming an equally suitable destination for affordable breakfast and brunch bites....
862 2012-06-28 June 28, 2012 — John Markoff reports on the manufacturing of the Google Nexus Q in the United States.
863 2012-06-28 The officials would not confirm that the rapper had been detained because of Norway's law preventing the naming of suspects, but officials said an American artist had been caught with a small amount of marijuana by a sniffer-dog....
864 2012-06-28 The intimate downtown production of "Uncle Vanya" will now overlap with the entire run of the Sydney Theater Company production starring Cate Blanchett, which will be part of the Lincoln Center Festival....
865 2012-06-28 What it means for JPMorgan to lose $9 billion. Also, made in the U.S.A., by Google; and more turbulence for Philip Falcone, a once high-flying investor....
866 2012-06-28 What it means for JPMorgan to lose $9 billion. | Made in the U.S.A., by Google. | More turbulence for Philip Falcone, a once high-flying investor.
867 2012-06-28 A decade ago, the Prime Minister made bold moves in the ministry....
868 2012-06-28 The state’s only abortion clinic filed suit in federal court on Wednesday to stop a law from taking effect that it says will effectively ban the practice in Mississippi. The clinic, the Jackson Women’s Health Organization, said the law, which is to go into effect on Sunday, is unconstitutional and imposes “medically unjustified requirements on physicians who perform abortions.” The law says anyone doing an abortion at a clinic must be an OB-GYN with privileges to admit patients to a local hospital. A clinic spokeswoman says the three physicians who work there are OB-GYNs but do not have admitting privileges, which can be difficult to obtain. The lawsuit says it is impossible to get such privileges by the deadline on Sunday. Gov. Phil Bryant says he hopes the law reduces abortions.
869 2012-06-28 The illness that claimed the life of Nora Ephron is an uncommon type of leukemia for which there are few treatments, medical experts said.

The disease, acute myeloid leukemia, accounts for only about 1 percent of deaths from cancer in this country. It is often preceded by myelodysplastic syndrome, a condition in which stem cells in the bone marrow are unable to produce enough red or white blood cells or platelets or produce blood cells that are too immature to function properly, said Dr. Paul Hendrie, medical director of the inpatient oncology program at the Seattle Cancer Care Alliance.

Ms. Ephron learned that she had the syndrome, also known as MDS, several years ago, said her oncologist, Dr. Gail J. Roboz, director of the leukemia program at Weill Cornell Medical College and NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital.

There are various types, but Ms. Ephron’s syndrome was “not a readily classifiable type,” Dr. Roboz said.

“Biologically, the disease is complicated, and we don’t have very accurate ways of predicting for some patients whether this is going to be a condition that they can hang out with for a while,” Dr. Roboz said. While she declined to provide details of Ms. Ephron’s treatment, she said that Ms. Ephron had managed to have several good years.

“There were MDS treatments that were tried and were successful to the point where she was able to lead an active and wonderful life, to the point where most people did not know that she was ill,” Dr. Roboz said.
870 2012-06-28 “Who do I call if I want to call Europe?” Variations of that question have been attributed for decades to former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, but he does not think it originated with him. In Warsaw on Wednesday, Mr. Kissinger, 89, said he believed that an Irish foreign minister first used the expression. “I am not sure I actually said it,” Mr. Kissinger told an audience that included diplomats and academics. He then drew laughs when he added, “But it’s a good statement, so why not take credit for it?”
871 2012-06-28 Re “Rude or Polite, City’s Officers Leave Raw Feelings in Stops” (front page, June 27): The term “stop and frisk” rolls off the tongue with such ease that we often forget the fact that a stop does not justify a frisk.

To stop a person lawfully, a police officer must have reasonable suspicion that the person has committed, is committing or is about to commit an unlawful act. Then, even if a stop is appropriate, officers can conduct a frisk only in the rare circumstance when they reasonably suspect that a person has a weapon that might endanger officer safety.

Despite this limitation, nearly 56 percent of those stopped by the New York Police Department in 2011 were frisked. Those frisks produced a weapon less than 2 percent of the time. These statistics clearly show that the N.Y.P.D. routinely frisks people without legal justification. How else to explain the huge number of innocent and unarmed people frisked?

Used lawfully, street stops are an acceptable law enforcement tool. But the N.Y.P.D.’s rampant abuse of the tactic, courteous or not, is an unconstitutional violation of civil rights that sows mistrust between the police and the public they serve.
872 2012-06-28 In recent days it has felt as though the more that leaders pressured Ms. Merkel to agree to stronger measures, whether in Los Cabos, Mexico, at the Group of 20 meeting or at a summit conference last week in Rome, the more she dug in against them. She has expressed particular antipathy for any proposals that would lead to greater sharing of the region’s debt burdens.

“I am afraid that at the summit, far too much time will be spent talking about all kinds of ideas for a common sharing of debt, and far too little about improved controls and structures,” she said, adding that “euro bonds, euro bills, debt redemption funds and much more are not only unconstitutional in Germany; they are also economically wrong and counterproductive.”

Prime Minister Mario Monti of Italy, who has proposed using the euro zone bailout funds and the European Central Bank to help bring down borrowing costs in troubled countries, told Italian lawmakers on Tuesday that he would not “rubber-stamp” general, pre-issued declarations at the summit meeting but would instead press for concrete measures. It is a critical juncture for Mr. Monti. If he returns from the meeting empty-handed, particularly after pushing through unpopular changes to labor laws on Wednesday, his government could be mortally weakened.

Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy of Spain told his Parliament on Wednesday that the meeting needed to urgently address Spain’s soaring borrowing costs, a sign of market nervousness about the state of the country’s finances. “We cannot finance at current prices for too long,” Mr. Rajoy said.

Political analysts say that Ms. Merkel has been forced to play hardball and hold out for the best possible deal because once she signs off on jointly issued debt, she cannot take it back. Yet utterances like “I don’t see total debt liability as long as I live,” which she said Tuesday at a closed-door meeting of lawmakers, do not appear to leave her much room to maneuver.

“Politicians have to lead,” Eckart D. Stratenschulte, the director of European Academy Berlin, said at a recent forum on the future of Europe. “You have to identify the aim, you have to explain it, and you have to choose the way, and then you have to go there.”

Ms. Merkel prefers to work behind the scenes. A parade of European leaders has circled through Berlin in recent months, sometimes for one-on-one chats in the chancellery’s private dining room overlooking the Tiergarten. Crucially, Ms. Merkel has courted the support of smaller countries, like the Baltics or Slovenia, as well as her main partners in Rome, Paris and London.

Earlier in the year she hosted small rounds of national leaders at her retreat an hour’s drive north of the city, the Baroque 18th-century Schloss Meseberg, where they could speak in greater depth about the needs and wants of their individual countries than in the large groups of 27 that gather in Brussels. At the same time, Ms. Merkel has been hosting a “dialogue for the future,” through a series of town-hall-style meetings around Germany.

Ms. Merkel has been criticized time and again for her deliberative approach, for the cost of waiting and allowing market instability to chip away at economic activity. Her emphasis on austerity has contributed to political instability in Greece, and her reluctance to take more immediate measures to shore up the euro has helped bring down governments in Ireland, Portugal, Spain, Italy and Greece, and may yet bring down more. With populist parties on the rise, future conversations about “more Europe” may be held with very different interlocutors.

But analysts have long cautioned that it is a mistake to underestimate Ms. Merkel’s political instincts or her ability to use even negative momentum to execute a judo flip.

As Ms. Merkel has played the stern taskmaster, Mr. Schäuble has had the chance to portray the farsighted thinker. “So far, member states have almost always had the final say in Europe. This cannot continue,” Mr. Schäuble said in an interview with the newsmagazine Der Spiegel.

It is a common criticism that voters are more excited about the annual Eurovision song contest or the European soccer championship than voting for the European Parliament. A presidential election, Mr. Schäuble predicted, would change all that. “It would electrify citizens from Portugal to Finland,” he told Der Spiegel.

Germany, in part because of its cold war history, is typically seen as more prepared to give up sovereignty. But even here, there is opposition toward sending more power to Brussels.

“Political union is code for a state,” said Peter Gauweiler, a member of Parliament from the Christian Social Union. “We can’t allow the central committee to migrate from Moscow to Brussels.” Werner Weidenfeld, director of the Center for Applied Policy Research at the University of Munich, said change “only happens under pressure, never in fair weather.”
873 2012-06-28 Stockton officials have approved a new budget that will guide city operations during bankruptcy. When officials file for Chapter 9 bankruptcy, which could happen this week, Stockton will be country’s largest city to go bankrupt. The budget, approved Tuesday night, will suspend debt payments, cut employee pay and reduce retiree benefits, allowing the city of about 292,000 residents to continue providing essential services through the bankruptcy process. After nearby Vallejo, Calif., filed for bankruptcy in 2008, state lawmakers passed legislation requiring cities to hire a third-party mediator to negotiate with creditors before filing for bankruptcy. Stockton officials had hoped to avoid bankruptcy when the city entered into 90 days of mediation in March. But on Monday, the city and its creditors failed to meet a deadline for a deal.
874 2012-06-28 When Justice Antonin Scalia read aloud from his dissent in the Arizona immigration case on Monday, including an attack on President Obama’s recent decision not to deport many illegal immigrants who arrived here as children, it raised some eyebrows. Mr. Obama’s policy was announced two months after the case had been heard.

But Monday was a busy day at the Supreme Court, and Justice Scalia’s contention that the administration was refusing to enforce the nation’s immigration laws was only briefly noted as analysts pored over the meaning of his colleagues’ striking down of key elements of the Arizona law and their ruling on juvenile sentencing.

In the days since, however, the discussion has mushroomed. Commentators from across the political spectrum have been saying that Justice Scalia, who is the most senior as well as, hands down, the funniest, most acerbic and most politically incorrect of the justices, went too far.

“Illegal immigration is a campaign issue. It wouldn’t surprise me if Justice Scalia’s opinion were quoted in campaign ads,” Judge Richard A. Posner, a prominent federal appeals court judge, wrote Wednesday in the online journal Slate. Judge Posner, who sits on the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, in Chicago, is a famously conservative but also contrarian jurist who has criticized Justice Scalia’s focus on pure constitutional originalism as naïve and unrealistic.

Still, his critique this time was noteworthy for its political specificity, and it was only part of a much larger discussion of Justice Scalia’s in-your-face style as the term comes to a dramatic conclusion on Thursday with a decision on Mr. Obama’s health care law, a ruling with at least as many political implications as the immigration decision.
875 2012-06-28 No detail is too small, right down to the hand-painted portrait of the dog in residence. For the supermodel Rachel Hunter’s showpiece doghouse in the area, Ms. Pollak supplied hand-painted wallcovering dotted with pawprints and bones, as well as framed pictures of dogs. Her business partner, a builder named Alan Mowrer, installed wrought-iron light fixtures and terra-cotta flooring. “Alan had to hand-make every tile of the Mediterranean roof,” Ms. Pollak said.

The average price of their doghouses is about $5,000 or $6,000, she said, though it’s not unheard of for people to spend north of $25,000. (Ms. Hunter’s was more than $16,000, Ms. Pollak said, although she could not recall an exact figure.)

Another client, Guillermo Gonzáles, is a 43-year-old entrepreneur who lives outside , Tex., in a 5,000-square-foot Victorian-inspired home with four pet pigs. The “boys,” as Mr. Gonzáles refers to them, are 4-year-old Vietnamese potbellieds, Augustus (120 pounds) and Vito (95 pounds), who have fearsome tusks but sweet dispositions, he says. They live in a specially built 300-square-foot addition to the house furnished with hay and blankets.

But the “girls,” Cherry and Abby, 6-month-old micro-minis that weigh no more than seven pounds each, sleep in a six-foot-square replica of Mr. Gonzáles’s home that sits in the corner of his safari-themed living room, not far from taxidermied busts of a zebra and an impala.

“The corner I put it in, it looks like kind of a plantation farm in a safari in ,” Mr. Gonzáles said.

The back story? Mr. Gonzáles had a business partner with a bulldog named Tank, and envisioned the doghouse, for which he paid $2,500 at a charity auction, as a gift for them. But Tank died before he could move in, so the house went to the pigs.

“Originally, I was just going to put it in the backyard,” Mr. Gonzáles said. “But it’s so beautiful that I didn’t want it to get destroyed by the weather.”

Such excess can be an invitation to criticism, but Ms. Pollak, the interior designer, offered a quick rebuttal. “People will come and say, ‘This is such a waste of money, why would anybody do this?’ ” she said. “All I can say is that if you have the money, what’s the difference between spending it on a pet house or on a piece of diamond jewelry?”

Besides, she said, many of her clients build houses for dogs they have either rescued or adopted from shelters. One client, in fact, had a disabled rescue dog for which Ms. Pollak and Mr. Mowrer created a handicapped-accessible home. “Alan adjusted all of the windows and the doors to allow the dog to see out the window,” she said, “even if he was lying down.”

DOGHOUSE design tends to be popular with architects and home builders, who sometimes refer to it as “barkitecture” and donate their creations to charity auctions that raise money for animal shelters. Designers say they love doghouses because they’re small and fun and allow lots of room for creativity.

As Brian Pickard, an architect in , put it: “If I build a doghouse and somebody is anticipating that it’s going to last 10 years in their backyard, it’s different from designing a house that somebody is expecting will last for 50 years. I can be more experimental.”

Mr. Pickard, 29, got his start as an student at , designing a modernist doghouse inspired by the work of the Swiss architect Mario Botta. He called it the (Sub)urban doghouse and gave it to his parents for their chocolate lab, Nash.

“It kind of began as a simple design exercise, looking at something that didn’t deal with building code and clients who weren’t going to change the program halfway through,” he said. “It became a way to experiment with styles and construction methods.”

For his neighbor, Dave Shahriari, a 31-year-old high school vice principal, Mr. Pickard recently designed a doghouse to shelter Thor, a 90-pound Alapaha Blue Blood bulldog, and Thor’s mother, Lucy, who spend part of the day outside. “When it rains, they need someplace to hang out,” Mr. Shahriari said.

To offer inspiration, he told Mr. Pickard that he admired the work of Tod Williams and Billie Tsien, whose firm designed the new home for the Barnes Foundation collection in Philadelphia. “It’s kind of very clean and modern,” Mr. Shahriari said, observing that his five-by-three-foot doghouse seems to echo that aesthetic.

FOR dogs who don’t spend even part of the day outdoors, there are still plenty of choices. FormaItalia, a division of the Italian furniture maker Chiavari, sells lacquered indoor kennels and pet beds that can be suspended from the ceiling. Denhaus, a company in , makes dog crates disguised as household furniture. The Townhaus, a square wooden table, doubles as a holding pen for naughty puppies, and the BowHaus, a circular silver cocktail table, can hold drinks on top and a dog inside.

M. Brandon Smith, who owns a wine company called Small Cellars, bought one BowHaus for his home in , , and another for his lake house in northern Alabama after he and his wife, Kim, got a small fluffy white dog for their 5-year-old son, Chance.

“I had absolutely no interest in putting a regular plastic crate in either of the houses,” Mr. Smith said, adding that the dog, Margaux, a Coton de Tulear, retreats happily to the designer crate, which is centrally located in both houses, in the living and dining area.

The family entertains frequently, and the doghouse is a conversation piece. “People just think it’s a coffee table,” Mr. Smith said. “And then 20 or 30 minutes later the dog goes in there, people will realize, ‘Oh my God, it’s a crate.’ ”

Barbara Dalhouse, president of the Roanoke Valley S.P.C.A. in , keeps her Hobbit-style wooden doghouse inside because it is “too beautiful,” she said, to put outdoors. Carved from a log retrieved from a swamp in after , the 50-inch-tall shingled hut is topped with an acorn and “looks like a gnome would live in it,” she said. But the sole resident is a stuffed squirrel.

“The cats look in every now and then,” she said. “And Lucy the beagle walks by. But they say, ‘Uh-uh, we’re couch people.’ ”

Hugo, a white French bulldog in Mill Valley, Calif., has a similar attitude toward his eco-doghouse, a designer structure complete with a green roof.

“It’s hard to get a dog to love the doghouse,” said Eric McFarland, 37, a real estate agent who owns Hugo with his spouse, Brad Krefman, a 30-year-old interior designer. “He’d rather be in our bed.”

The doghouse, which was built by a company called Modern Cabana, sits near the pool outside the couple’s home, a modern wood-and-glass house in the style of the architect Joseph Eichler, Mr. McFarland said. It normally sells for $650, but one of the owners of Modern Cabana, Nick Damner, handled the couple’s renovation (doghouses are just a sideline for the company, which specializes in prefabricated buildings), and he threw in the doghouse as a gift.

“It’s a cute little piece in the yard, so it works for us,” Mr. McFarland said, even if it doesn’t particularly work for the dog.

WHILE the market for high-end doghouses is, understandably, a limited one, those who sell them say that, despite the recession, business has remained steady. The Little Cottage Company, in , makes some of the most picturesque doghouses available online, including the Victorian Cottage Kennel Dog House ($4,400 at ) and the Cape Cod Cozy Cottage Kennel Dog House ($4,600 at ; prices vary depending on the seller). Dan Schlabach, who owns the company, estimates that he sells somewhere between 10 and 15 a year, a number that has remained fairly consistent.

Rockstar Puppy, an online company that sells pricey dog accessories through its Web site, advertises custom doghouses for as much as $20,000. Jessica Auria, who runs Rockstar Puppy, says she has sold a couple of them to celebrities, including one with heat and air-conditioning that can be controlled by an .

Working with Barbara Thulin-Joyce, an interior designer, she created a doghouse for Jenni Farley, better known to fans of “Jersey Shore” as JWoww. The doghouse, which they gave to Ms. Farley as a marketing promotion, is now advertised on the Rockstar Puppy Web site for $12,000, complete with matching hot-pink beds and miniature fabric drapes with jeweled pink tie-backs.

Both women seem to have high aspirations in the doghouse design world.

“I’ve got all kinds of really great ideas that I want to do for doghouses,” said Ms. Thulin-Joyce, who runs a pet décor boutique called Decadent Digs.

“Music that comes on when the dog walks in,” she said. “And windmills on top.”

THERE are many designer doghouses, but perhaps the only one with a cult following was, not surprisingly, designed by Frank Lloyd Wright. The doghouse was created in the 1950s at the request of Jim Berger, a 12-year-old who wrote to the architect to say that his black Labrador, Eddie, needed a home.

Wright wrote back that he was busy designing the Guggenheim Museum, but would gladly oblige later — which he did.

“I was Frank Lloyd Wright’s youngest client, and I was also his poorest,” said Mr. Berger, now 68 and a retired high school teacher in Orangevale, Calif.

The context was that Mr. Berger’s father, Robert, had written to Wright years earlier to request blueprints for a house for his family. Wright seems to have had a soft spot for the Bergers: he sent plans, at nominal cost, and Robert Berger spent about 20 years building the house, his daughter, Suzanne Berger, recalled. The family lived in the house, in San Anselmo, Calif., for many years, she said, but it is now on the market.

In 1956 or thereabouts, when Jim Berger sent his query to Wright on behalf of Eddie, he was concerned because the dog “would sleep outside, and I didn’t like that a bit,” Mr. Berger said by telephone, his three beagles howling in the background. “I wanted something where he would be comfortable.”

But by the time the plans arrived, he was in the Army, so his father built the doghouse, which was about three feet high and looked like the prow of a ship. “It was extremely difficult to build,” Jim Berger said. (Eddie, alas, had died by then and been replaced by other dogs.)

Architecture fans came from far and wide to look at the Bergers’ place — particularly Eddie’s house. “My mom had a beautiful home designed by Frank Lloyd Wright, but people would come up to see the doghouse specifically, and that kind of angered her,” he said. Eventually, she got rid of it.

More recently, the documentary filmmaker Michael Miner, who has made several movies about Wright, came to interview the Bergers. At his urging, Jim Berger and his brother, Eric, rebuilt the doghouse last fall using the original plans. The new doghouse is on display at screenings of Mr. Miner’s latest movie, “Romanza: The California Structures Designed by Frank Lloyd Wright.”

By now, though, Mr. Berger is a little tired of the tale of the 12-year-old boy and his dog. “Could you put in a plug for the S.P.C.A.?” he asked. “My dogs have a Frank Lloyd Wright doghouse, but there’s a lot of dogs out there that need loving ‘forever’ homes.”
876 2012-06-28 The only superfluous accessory in the modern doghouse may be the dog....
877 2012-06-28 “The weakness is throughout the euro zone,” said Marie Diron, an economist who advises the consulting firm Ernst & Young. “Restructuring of the banking sector really hasn’t taken place to the same extent as in the United States.”

The meeting in Brussels comes a few days after Spain and Cyprus formally requested aid for their troubled banks.

But the usual north-south divide that characterizes these meetings may not be as clear-cut when banks are the issue. Germany and Austria also have many ailing banks that are exposed to stricken euro zone countries like Spain and Italy, though they have stronger economies and their governments are in a better position to provide aid.

Indeed, one reason Greece and other countries have debt troubles is because banks in Germany and France were all too willing to extend credit.

The talks in Brussels could lay the groundwork for a so-called banking union, with centralized bank regulation and deposit insurance. Proponents say that a central regulator, possibly the E.C.B., might be more willing than national regulators to require weak banks to confront their problems and make changes.

“It is huge progress that everyone now is talking about banking union when nobody was two months ago,” said Nicolas Véron, a senior fellow at Bruegel, a research organization in Brussels. “There is no longer denial of one of the core components of the crisis.”

But he and other analysts are skeptical that political leaders will be willing to expose their countries’ financial institutions to greater scrutiny. Stress tests have so far failed to restore confidence in European banks because there is a perception that the national authorities tried to protect their own institutions.

“There has been a large political dimension,” said Harald A. Benink, a professor of banking and finance at Tilburg University in the Netherlands.

Mr. Benink is chairman of the European Shadow Financial Regulatory Committee, a group of university professors who on Wednesday said that the European Stability Mechanism, a euro zone bailout fund, should be given power to recapitalize banks directly and negotiate restructuring plans. That approach would bypass politicians.

Euro zone banks were supposed to be fixed by now. Last year, the European Banking Authority assessed whether banks had adequate financial buffers, and pressured those that did not to raise more capital. The deadline for the banks to comply is this week.

Many of the top names in European finance are on the list, including Germany’s two biggest banks, Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank. Both lenders said they raised the required capital well before the deadline.

Three out of four of France’s biggest banks also made the list: Société Générale, BNP Paribas and Groupe BPCE.

Executives of the banks maintain that they have made huge progress reducing risk, increasing capital and raising funds they can lend on to credit-strapped European businesses.

“I think it’s fair to say we’ve made an effort to get ahead of the curve,” said Lars Machenil, chief financial officer of BNP Paribas, which has already exceeded the capital reserve target set by the banking authority.

Société Générale “is more solid now than we were a year ago, in a world that is just as difficult as it was then,” the bank’s chief financial officer, Bertrand Badré, said. “We have ample liquidity and have no trouble funding ourselves.”

Christophe Nijdam, a banking analyst at AlphaValue in Paris, agreed that the major French banks were in better shape than they were in the second half of 2011, when U.S. money market funds effectively cut them off from wholesale lending.

“They went on a fast diet, because they didn’t have any choice,” Mr. Nijdam said. “They were like a rabbit caught in the headlights, mesmerized by the liquidity crisis.”

But financial indicators show that European banks remain under a cloud. The interbank market, in which banks lend excess cash to each other for short periods, is crippled because banks doubt each other’s creditworthiness.

Lending to banks in the euro zone fell by $364 billion, or 5.9 percent, at the end of 2011, the largest drop since the end of 2008, according to the Bank for International Settlements. In another sign that banks are afraid to lend to each other, they have been parking near-record sums at the E.C.B., collecting a meager 0.25 percent return on the money.

On Tuesday, banks stashed €747 billion, or $931 billion, at the E.C.B. That was below highs of over €800 billion earlier this year but still well above normal.

“Banks have basically stopped trusting each other,” Mr. Véron of Bruegel said.

While countries like Greece and Spain often face criticism for a lack of prudence that got them into trouble and caused the euro zone crisis, French and German banks were the enablers. During the boom years before 2008 they made huge loans to countries in Southern Europe, and today many banks remain vulnerable to the problems of those countries.

Private and public borrowers in Spain still owed €115 billion to French banks at the end of 2011, according to the Bank for International Settlements. Italian borrowers owed €332 billion to French banks and Greek borrowers owed an additional €44 billion.

Crédit Agricole, the one French bank to get a clean bill of health from the European Banking Authority, has suffered a 27 percent plunge in its share price this year, much more than its peers, because investors worry about its exposure to Greece, where it has a large subsidiary.

Crédit Agricole and BNP Paribas both have large operations in Italy, another country contending with big debt and bank problems.

German banks are less exposed to Greece, but are owed €134 billion by Italian borrowers and €146 billion by Spanish customers.

Economists say that regulators need to conduct a rigorous triage to separate healthy banks from those that need to be restructured and those that are mortally wounded.

At the end of this week, WestLB, once Germany’s third-largest bank, will provide a rare example of an ailing bank that is being broken up.

Under pressure from E.U. competition authorities, the bank’s toxic assets have been moved into a so-called bad bank, another part of the business has been sold and the remainder will continue to operate under the brand name Portigon.

More banks will probably have to undergo a similar process before the system is healthy again. But that will happen only if control is wrenched from the local authorities, said Xavier Vives, a professor of economics and finance at IESE Business School in Barcelona.

“What Europe has lacked is a clear line of authority,” Mr. Vives said. “A crisis needs much faster and coherent reactions.”

“The Spanish banking system,” he said, “is not the only one which has problems.”
878 2012-06-28 Stocks rose on Wednesday as stronger-than-expected economic data helped lift energy stocks, overshadowing concerns that a European Union summit meeting would not yield progress in easing the euro zone’s debt crisis.

The energy sector showed the strongest gains among the 10 major groups in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index. Cabot Oil and Gas jumped 9 percent to $41.24 and was the biggest advancer on the S. & P. 500.

Worries about Europe have fed sharp sell-offs in stocks lately, but the declines have been tempered by enough short-term buying to keep the market confined to a trading range.

“Sentiment is pretty negative,” said Douglas Foreman, director of equities at Kayne Anderson Rudnick Investment Management. “When you get people this depressed, markets have a tendency to bounce and that is pretty much where we are at right now.”

Investors seemed encouraged by a better-than-expected report on orders for long-lasting manufactured goods in May, which rose 1.1 percent.
879 2012-06-28 “Bankruptcy is a terrible option until it’s the only option,” Marc Levinson, a lawyer representing the city, told the council. During Tuesday’s meeting, dozens of emotional residents and city retirees begged officials to avoid bankruptcy and preserve benefits.

The State Constitution required that the city address its $26 million general fund deficit, of a total budget of $521 million, to meet a July 1 deadline for cities to adopt balanced budgets. The city could continue informal negotiations with creditors with the new budget, but a bankruptcy filing appeared imminent.

Bankruptcy experts and officials at other fiscally wounded cities are keeping close tabs on Stockton as it unravels.

“Everyone is watching,” said Karol K. Denniston, a partner at the law firm Schiff Hardin who helped draft the AB 506 legislation. “It’s in the interest of every teetering city to make its bankruptcy process as short and cost effective as possible.”

Despite their failure to reach an agreement, three months of negotiation between the city and its creditors could make the bankruptcy process more efficient by shortening what can otherwise be a long and costly period in court, Ms. Denniston said. Protracted bankruptcy proceedings — like those in Vallejo — can push residents to leave, further eroding a city’s tax base.

Conventional wisdom has long held that large cities do not use bankruptcy court to restructure, said David Skeel, a law professor at the University of Pennsylvania.

“To me Stockton confirms that Chapter 9 bankruptcy is not just for small municipalities,” said Professor Skeel. “Here’s a substantial city going into bankruptcy at a point in time when there are dozens and dozens of cities across the country in comparable states of financial distress.”

Still, such municipal bankruptcies are rare. Stockton’s road from boomtown to insolvency has been a tortuous one, riddled with missteps and unfortunate timing.

This city, some 80 miles east of San Francisco, was not so long ago a rapidly expanding bedroom community for commuters to the Bay Area. But in recent years, Stockton has been crushed by falling housing prices, foreclosures, the mounting costs of retiree pensions and hefty price tags for buildings paid for with taxpayer-guaranteed bonds, including a hockey arena.

Since 2009, the city has cut some $90 million in spending and eliminated 25 percent of its police officers, 30 percent of its fire department and 40 percent of all other city employees.

Earlier this year the city defaulted on several debt payments, and as a result Wells Fargo repossessed a downtown building bought in 2007 for $40 million. Officials had planned a new city hall there. The bank also repossessed three city-owned parking garages.

“We have hit the wall; we are insolvent,” Mayor Ann Johnston said in a statement issued in early June, after city officials authorized the city manager to file for bankruptcy if mediation efforts failed, as they now have. “This is the action that we must take to keep the services that are important for the safety and health of our citizens.”
880 2012-06-28 It's a bedrock principle of our era: Companies should be run for the sole purpose of increasing their stock prices, or returning ''value'' to shareholders, the ultimate ''owners.''     To Lynn A. Stout, however, it amounts to nothing more than a '...
881 2012-06-28 The stop-and-frisk has emerged as one of the New York Police Department's favored tactics for fighting crime in troubled neighborhoods, but based on reader comments submitted to nytimes.com, the policy is wildly unpopular with readers of The New Y...
882 2012-06-28 Don't blame me, Dewayne Wise said, ''It's not my fault.''     He had not pretended his way to first base when an inside pitch hit his bat, as Derek Jeter had in 2010. He had not yelled at a third baseman in Toronto, helping to cause an infield fly...
883 2012-06-29 The actor will headline the sequel to the blockbuster fund-raiser he hosted this year to benefit President Obama's campaign....
884 2012-06-29 Allyson Felix and Jeneba Tarmoh, who tied in the 100-meter final, finished one thousandth of a second apart in the 200-meter semifinals at the Olympic trials....
885 2012-06-29 A book, this time around....
886 2012-06-29 The Republicans remain steadfast in their mission to exact the personal and political destruction of President Obama. Holding the attorney general in contempt is just the latest example....
887 2012-06-29 Our reporters are taking questions about what the Supreme Court's health care ruling means for consumers and will be answering them by video....
888 2012-06-29 Forget the "art" of film-making. The real money is in promotion, distribution and merchandise....
889 2012-06-29 June 29, 2012 - Winning the battle, but losing the war with health care ruling.
890 2012-06-29 The two automakers signed a memorandum on Friday that would have the automakers co-develop a sports car as well as share hybrid and diesel technologies....
891 2012-06-29 The whistle-blowing Web site released a CD called "Beat the Blockade" with songs about its struggles....
892 2012-06-29 Bucks readers offer their opinions on classes that teach teenagers about spending, saving and investments....
893 2012-06-29 Anheuser-Busch InBev will pay $20.1 billion for the rest of Grupo Modelo, taking control of the maker of Corona Extra beer....
894 2012-06-29 Tim Burton's latest film "Frankenweenie" will have its world premiere at Fantastic Fest in Austin....
895 2012-06-29 European leaders reach an agreement on bailouts. Also, winning the battle, but losing the war with the health care ruling; and, is the hype over cloud computing justified?...
896 2012-06-29 European leaders reach an agreement on bailouts. | Winning the battle, but losing the war with health care ruling. | Is the hype over cloud computing justified?
897 2012-06-29 The U.S. women's soccer team went into the 2000 Sydney Olympics as the reigning World Cup and Olympic champions. But even heavy favorites can suffer upsets, and Norway proved to be the spoiler in controversial fashion....
898 2012-06-29 The $2.2 billion deal will give Sony control over a huge catalog — from “Over the Rainbow” to songs by Amy Winehouse....
899 2012-06-29 The Swiss financial giant moved to calm investors' fears on Friday by announcing it expected to report a second-quarter profit....
900 2012-06-29 The best of readers' suggestions to put the Indian economy back on track....
901 2012-06-29 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
902 2012-06-29 Texas law won’t change, and, in fact, Texas was one of the first places where a corporate-financed advertisement popped up after the 2010 ruling.

A company you have probably never heard of, KDR Development Inc. of Jacksonville, Tex., bought newspaper advertisements that tried to steer voters away from State Representative Chuck Hopson, Republican of Jacksonville.

He had just switched parties — a timely decision, as it turned out, given the Republican sweep in rural Texas in 2010 — and an old political rival wanted to replace him with a “real” Republican.

Larry Durrett, who lost to Mr. Hopson in the 2006 general election, was the president of KDR. The ad did not directly say to vote against Mr. Hopson, but it came close, identifying his opponents as “true conservative Republicans” and saying that one of them would be more deserving of support.

Mr. Hopson easily won the primary and then the general election. He is in another battle now, one of several incumbents in the Texas House who have been forced into July’s Republican primary runoff.

That KDR episode veered away from conventional thinking about corporate spending in a couple of ways. One was the corporation itself: an unknown, family-held organization set up mainly to handle real estate transactions for a related family corporation that holds dozens of fast-food franchises in Texas. It’s not a national outfit. It’s not the stereotype, with a president who could substitute for the evil heavy in a James Bond movie.

Instead, it is as uncomplicated as a schoolyard scuffle. A former political rival found a way to cause trouble for an incumbent politician. Only the source of strength had changed. “You take the money out of the pocket that’s got some money in there,” Mr. Durrett said at the time, though he says he scarcely remembers the campaign now.

The other difference has to do with wrongdoing, actual or perceived.

In the Montana case, state courts cited the state’s history of trouble with corporate spending and corruption.

One way to create problems is to coordinate spending between a campaign and a third-party group, which is still a no-no even while the corporations and labor unions are free to frolic on the political playground.

It’s hard to police. The denials of coordination sound the same whether they come from honest or dishonest people. Bad guys look like they’re getting away with something. Good guys look sleazy.

Judges have a version of this problem in Texas and other states where they’re elected: the people most interested in financing their campaigns are the lawyers and litigants with cases before the courts. It looks dirty whether the judges are straight or crooked.

In the KDR case, almost everything was disclosed. The company paid for advertisements, put its name on those advertisements and answered questions from reporters. (The exception was that it wasn’t required to say how much it spent and where.) KDR avoided a kind of corruption that plagues politics: voters could see who was buying the ads, figure out why and make a judgment about it.

That disclosure is not required.

As it stands now — after Citizens United, after the Montana case — companies and humans play under similar rules.

Voters can demand more information, but the donors don’t always have to give it to them.
903 2012-06-29 The sales tax would raise an estimated $29 million annually and draw an additional state match of at least $10 million. The state currently offers financing for half-day pre-K for children who cannot speak English or are from homeless, low-income, foster or military families. Many schools choose to expand the standard half-day program to a full-day program, which they previously did with the help of state grants.

Proponents say high-quality pre-K programs increase the benefits of early childhood learning. Studies like a 2006 report from Texas A&M University suggest that such programs lower juvenile crime rates and make students less likely to drop out or to need remedial course work.

Within two years, San Antonio’s initiative would serve about 4,500 4-year-olds who are eligible for state-financed pre-K but do not attend a full-day program. It would also finance training for teachers at two early childhood education centers.

Mr. Castro acknowledged the challenge in persuading voters to approve a new tax.

“Nobody likes a tax — there’s no way to sugarcoat it,” he said. But he added that it would amount only to an estimated $7.81 a year for the average household, which he said was a small price to pay “for a profound difference in the lives of thousands of 4-year-olds.”

Before the proposal goes to voters, though, it must clear the City Council. It has already attracted scrutiny by some members in terms of how the city would finance the construction of the training centers and exactly which children it is intended to serve.

“I don’t think anybody is saying it’s not a good idea,” said Reed Williams, a councilman who represents the city’s North Side. “But the program that is being laid out, we just have to understand how it’s going to be done.”

Criticism of the proposal should not be viewed as a “knee-jerk reaction against taxes,” Mr. Williams said, adding that San Antonio voters have approved taxes when they have understood what they were receiving in return.

Mr. Castro said some questions were to be expected as the details of a policy recommendation are hammered out.

The Council votes in August on whether to place the tax on the November ballot.
904 2012-06-29 The decision also said a lot about Jr., who was considered by many moderates and liberals to be a highly partisan actor dedicated not just to a conservative judicial philosophy but to the political aims of the right wing of the . That image was changed in preliminary ways by a week that began with his unqualified agreement to the opinion striking down three provisions of Arizona’s draconian anti-immigrant law and ended with the health care ruling, the most important decision by the court in many years.

THE PRACTICAL IMPACT In general, the decision means that tens of millions more Americans will have access to affordable and that reforms in how medical care is delivered and paid for can be aggressively pursued to bring down the cost of health care. Most of the changes will take effect in 2014, like coverage for adults with pre-existing conditions. Many popular provisions are already in effect, including mandated coverage of pre-existing conditions in children and allowing parents to keep their children on their coverage until they are 26.

The law covers preventive care without cost-sharing by patients and improves preventive care coverage in private plans. It bans insurers from imposing lifetime limits on how much they will pay for an individual’s care. The law is already providing grants to carry out demonstrations and pilot projects to encourage hospitals, physicians and insurers to coordinate care, eliminate waste and reduce medical errors. These initiatives will now be accelerated in coming years.

The major exception to the strong legal endorsement of the law involves . The law called for states to expand their Medicaid coverage to virtually everyone earning up to 133 percent of the federal poverty level, or up to $25,390 for a family of three. It encouraged states to expand their programs by having Washington pay 100 percent of the cost of newly eligible enrollees for three years, with the subsidy decreasing after that to 90 percent. But it also contained an implied threat to withdraw all federal financing for Medicaid if a state refused to expand. By a 7-to-2 vote, the court said that was too coercive and upheld only the provision of additional funds.

We disagreed with the court’s legal reasoning on this point and believe that without the possibility of withdrawing federal funds, the reform law may fall short of ensuring near-universal coverage.

THE CONSTITUTIONAL FALLOUT When Congress was struggling to pass the health care bill, lawmakers refused to use the word tax to describe the proposed penalties on those who did not obtain . Instead, they used the words “mandate” and “penalty.”

The Obama administration went along with this purely political pretense but made a cogent argument to the Supreme Court that the taxing power was a strong ground for the law, and it sensibly carried the day.

Chief Justice Roberts deserves substantial for joining the court’s moderate-liberals in finding the mandate constitutional on that basis — and for sparing the country a spasm of outrage. Had he gone the other way, the ruling would have been seen as an endorsement of Mr. Romney. Chief Justice Roberts can hardly be painted as an Obama partisan.

But when he summarized his opinion from the bench on Thursday, he explained that he found the individual mandate unconstitutional under the commerce clause — like the four other conservatives whose joint dissent said they would have struck down the law entirely.

His said that rather than regulating “existing commercial activity,” the mandate “compels individuals to become active in commerce by purchasing a product.” Upholding the provision under the commerce clause would “justify a mandatory purchase to solve almost any problem,” he wrote, and that would change “the relation between the citizen and the federal government.”

Justice answered the chief justice in a dissent on this issue for the four moderate liberals. “Unlike the market for almost any other product or service,” she wrote, “the market for medical care is one in which all individuals inevitably participate.” Virtually everyone has a need for care eventually.

Seventy-five years of commerce-clause precedent dictated a presumption that the law was constitutional on that basis — without a “plain showing” that Congress acted irrationally in passing it.

Justice Ginsburg was right that the chief justice relied “on a newly minted constitutional doctrine” to strike down the mandate under the commerce clause, one with no “home in the text of the Constitution or our decisions.” An individual who chooses not to buy health insurance can be seen as choosing to self-insure — clearly an activity in the marketplace.

Politics deluged the court’s consideration of health care reform in the many briefs attacking the mandate and other parts of the law and in the intense three-day oral argument, when conservative justices asked questions that brought partisan politics sharply into the nation’s highest courtroom.

Fortunately, that did not keep the court from reaching the right result because Congress’s taxing power is even greater than its power under the commerce clause. But the change gives conservatives a major — if not fully understood — tool in their campaign to limit Congress’s efforts to solve problems with social and economic programs. This week’s victory carries the potential of defeat in the future.
905 2012-06-29 The former Mets outfielder Lenny Dykstra has agreed to plead guilty to three counts stemming from a bankruptcy fraud case in Los Angeles, federal prosecutors said Thursday.

Dykstra will plead guilty to one count each of bankruptcy fraud, concealment of assets and money laundering, said Thom Mrozek, a spokesman for the United States attorney’s office. Dykstra faces up to 20 years in federal prison. It is not immediately known when his next court date will be.

Dykstra, who bought a mansion once owned by Wayne Gretzky, filed for bankruptcy three years ago, claiming he owed more than $31 million and had only $50,000 in assets. Prosecutors said that after filing for bankruptcy, Dykstra hid, sold or destroyed more than $400,000 worth of items without permission of a bankruptcy trustee.

Court documents said Dykstra gave false and misleading testimony under oath about what he did with some of the items he took from his home. Dykstra said he put an oven, sconces and chandeliers into a storage unit, but prosecutors said he ended up selling the items for $8,500.

He also hid baseball gloves, balls, bats and other memorabilia from the bankruptcy court and creditors and sold them last year for about $15,000, court documents show.
906 2012-06-29 Stockton filed for Chapter 9 protection on Thursday, making it the largest American city by population ever to declare bankruptcy. The filing comes after officials were unable to reach a deal with the city’s creditors to restructure hundreds of millions of dollars of debt under a state law designed to help municipalities avoid bankruptcy. Stockton, a river port of 290,000, is the first California city to file for bankruptcy since Vallejo, which did so in 2008.
907 2012-06-29 The police wounded a prominent human rights activist by shooting her in the leg with a tear-gas canister, witnesses said Thursday. The activist, Zainab al-Khawaja, was fired on at close range, said Yousef al-Muhafedha, a member of the Bahrain Center for Human Rights. The injury did not appear life-threatening. Ms. Khawaja is the daughter of the jailed activist Abdulhadi al-Khawaja, whose hunger strike of more than 100 days brought renewed international attention to the protest movement in Bahrain. Bahrain’s majority Shiites, emboldened by Arab Spring protests elsewhere, began an uprising more than 16 months ago seeking to limit the wide-ranging powers of the ruling Sunni dynasty. At least 50 people have been killed in the unrest in Bahrain, which is home to the United States Navy’s Fifth Fleet. Bahrain’s monarchy has made concessions, but not enough to satisfy demands of the protesters.
908 2012-06-29 For 28 years, McCarren Pool sat empty on the Williamsburg-Greenpoint border in Brooklyn, its enormous basin growing cracks and sprouting weeds. One by one, the 10 other public pools that opened in New York City during the scorching summer of 1936 were revamped, but not McCarren. A generation of Brooklyn children learned of its invigorating charms only from their parents who had swum there when they were children.

That all changed on Thursday, when Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, joined by longtime residents as well as newcomers, officially reopened the pool after a 30-month, $50 million renovation. “This pool has an illustrious past and a bright future,” Mr. Bloomberg told a crowd assembled by the shimmering turquoise expanse.

After a few more speeches and a countdown from 10, dozens of young swimmers jumped in, along with Adrian Benepe, the commissioner of the Department of Parks and Recreation, who is leaving his post after Labor Day.

“It’s awesome — just the right temperature,” Mr. Benepe said after swimming the width of the pool, which holds 1,057,914 gallons of water and can accommodate 1,500 swimmers.

It was a day many in attendance never thought would come. After the pool fell into disrepair and then closed in the 1980s, arguments — some racially tinged — simmered over its fate, with historic preservationists pressing to have McCarren restored to its original glory and some residents of the traditionally Italian and Polish neighborhoods advocating its demolition, to keep outsiders from using it. The debates were fruitless, however, since there was no money for either a restoration or a demolition.
909 2012-06-29 Mr. Monti, an experienced European player and former European Union commissioner, hailed the agreement as a “very important deal for the future of the E.U. and the euro zone,” adding, “it is a double satisfaction for Italy.” He had argued that other euro zone leaders must find ways to help “virtuous countries” like his own and Spain, he said, which were fixing their economies and were solvent, but were under speculative market pressure.

Countries that request bond support from the rescue fund will have to sign a memorandum of understanding setting out their existing police commitments and agreeing to a timetable. But they will not face the intrusive oversight of a “troika” of international leaders to which Greece, Ireland and Portugal have been subjected, Mr. Monti said.

The euro zone “will be strengthened by this,” Mr. Monti said, calling it a step on the path to collective responsibility and mutualized debt. The decision also opened the way to agreement on the growth pact, and the euro rose in early trading in Asia on the news.

Italy has no immediate plans to ask for help from the existing funds, he Monti said, on the assumption that markets will ease after this agreement although many details were unclear. For Spain, help from the temporary bailout funds will be transferred to the permanent one once it is set up, Mr. Van Rompuy said.

The decision followed a difficult afternoon and night of discussions, after most leaders of countries who do not belong to the euro zone had left Brussels.

Italy and Spain were supported in their efforts by the new French president, François Hollande, who arrived here on Thursday demanding “rapid solutions” to the euro’s problems. But Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany gave little sign of budging on any quick fixes, arguing that existing mechanisms could be used, illustrating some of the deep divisions as European leaders try to restore faith in the single currency.

Heading into the two-day meeting, Ms. Merkel had brushed aside questions about the mounting economic pressure on Spain and Italy, both of which saw their borrowing costs spike again on Thursday to ever-more-painful levels that are not sustainable in the long run.

Mr. Hollande showed no such reticence. “I have come here to get very rapid solutions to support those countries that are in the most difficulty in the markets, and that have made considerable efforts to shore up their public accounts,” he said.

European Union summit conferences were once scripted by the governments in Paris and Berlin, which often dictated the course by releasing a “Franco-German letter” just before other leaders arrived. But despite repeated meetings in recent days, there had been no far-reaching French-German proposal, which the two leaders promised on the day six weeks ago that Mr. Hollande became president.

Ms. Merkel has given Mr. Hollande the growth pact that he demanded during his election campaign, but it is largely made up of existing funds. There had been little effort to disguise their differences over sharing liability, through collectivized debt, to avert a euro zone breakup and take the pressure off Spain and Italy.

“The current disconnect between Paris and Berlin is destabilizing the euro,” Charles Grant, the director of the Center for European Reform, a research organization in London, wrote this week. “In the long run the euro is not sustainable without a grand bargain between France and Germany.”

Approval of the growth pact was delayed by disagreements ranging from the mundane — disputes over a European patent office — to the more fundamental, with Italy and Spain insisting on a more urgent discussion of short-term measures to ease their financial strains. Mr. Monti told the other leaders that Italy would not agree to any other issue here until there was serious discussion of how the union could help bring down interest rates on Italian bonds, and Mr. Rajoy, under even more pressure from the markets, joined him.

In a speech on Wednesday to German lawmakers, Ms. Merkel argued that short-term solutions like pooled debt would be counterproductive without the construction, first, of a political and economic union among the member states in the euro zone. Without mutual responsibility and control over national budgets, she argued, there could not be mutual liabilities that can turn into blank checks.

While she made a concession Friday for the use of the bailout fund, it was accompanied by the requirement for a centralized banking supervisor, to ensure more bloc-wide discipline.

Financial markets have been looking ahead to the next meeting of the European Central Bank amid speculation that it would be forced to step in with new funds again or slash interest rates.

The central bank, however, indicated that it would not make any move until it saw concrete progress on the political side.

“How the E.U. summit pans out will be a key influence on what the E.C.B. opts to do,” Kenneth Wattret, an economist at BNP Paribas, wrote in a research note.

The European Union gathering has goals for both the short and longer term — to ease the pressure on Spain and Italy, but also to lay the ground for increased integration of the euro zone.

The leaders will also discuss proposals for the future of the euro drafted by the heads of the major European institutions and released Tuesday, plans that could lead to the creation of a euro zone finance ministry and — eventually — greater sharing of debt burdens.
910 2012-06-29 WASHINGTON — Abound Solar, a solar panel maker that received a $400 million loan guarantee from the federal government, announced on Thursday that it would file for bankruptcy amid plummeting prices and intense competition from Chinese manufacturers in the solar equipment market.

The failure of Abound, which tapped about $68 million of the loan guarantee before the Energy Department cut off its credit last September, comes after the collapse last year of Solyndra, another high-tech solar panel maker that had received federal funds.

Republicans, including Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, seized on Solyndra’s failure as evidence that the Obama administration wa`s wasting taxpayer money by supporting clean energy companies.

Abound Solar, of Loveland, Colo., with manufacturing in Tipton, Ind., had been struggling for months. In February, it announced it was closing its factory to conserve resources while it tried to start production of a more advanced product. The company produced panels that made electricity directly from sunlight using a chemistry called cadmium telluride, which was intended to have a cost advantage over the more common silicon cells. But that cost advantage eroded as silicon cells plunged in price.

Abound said it would file for bankruptcy next week and dismiss its 125 employees. The company said it could have been profitable if it had had large-scale manufacturing under way, but “aggressive pricing actions from Chinese solar panel companies have made it very difficult for an early stage start-up company like Abound to scale in current market conditions.”
911 2012-06-29 The mutation’s effect was a real surprise, said James J. Giovannoni of the , an author of the paper. He called the wide adoption of tomatoes that ripen uniformly “a story of unintended consequences.”

Breeders stumbled upon the variety about 70 years ago and saw commercial potential. Consumers like tomatoes that are red all over, but ripe tomatoes normally had a ring of green, yellow or white at the stem end. Producers of tomatoes used in tomato sauce or ketchup also benefited. Growers harvest this crop all at once, Dr. Giovannoni said, and “with the uniform ripening gene, it is easier to determine when the tomatoes are ripe.”

Then, about 10 years ago, Ann Powell, a plant biochemist at the , happened on a puzzle that led to the new discovery.

Dr. Powell, a lead author of the Science paper, was studying weed genes. Her colleagues had put those genes into tomato plants, which are, she said, the lab rats of the plant world. To Dr. Powell’s surprise, tomatoes with the genes turned the dark green of a sweet pepper before they ripened, rather than the insipid pale green of most tomatoes today.

“That got me thinking,” Dr. Powell said. “Why do fruits bother being green in the first place?” The green is from chloroplasts, self-contained energy factories in plant cells, where photosynthesis takes place. The end result is sugar, which plants use for food. And, Dr. Powell said, the prevailing wisdom said sugar travels from a plant’s leaves to its fruit. So chloroplasts in tomato fruit seemed inconsequential.

Still, she said, the thought of dark green tomatoes “kind of bugged me.” Why weren’t the leaves dark green, too?

About a year ago, she and her colleagues, including Dr. Giovannoni, decided to investigate. The weed genes, they found, replaced a disabled gene in a tomato’s fruit but not in its leaves. With the weed genes, the tomatoes turned dark green.

The reason the tomatoes had been light green was that they had the uniform ripening mutation, which set up a sort of chain reaction. The mutation not only made tomatoes turn uniformly green and then red, but also disabled genes involved in ripening. Among them are genes that allow the fruit to make some of its own sugar instead of getting it only from leaves. Others increase the amount of  , which give tomatoes a full red color and, it is thought, are involved in flavor.

To test their discovery, the researchers used genetic engineering to turn on the disabled genes while leaving the uniform ripening trait alone. The fruit was evenly dark green and then red and had 20 percent more sugar and 20 to 30 percent more carotenoids when ripe.

But were the genetically engineered tomatoes more flavorful? Because Department of Agriculture regulations forbid the consumption of experimental produce, no one tasted them.

And, Dr. Giovannoni says, do not look for those genetically engineered tomatoes at the grocery store. Producers would not dare to make such a tomato for fear that consumers would reject it.

But, Dr. Powell said, there is a way around the issue. Heirloom tomatoes and many wild species do not have the uniform ripening mutation. “The idea is to get the vegetable seed industry interested,” Dr. Powell said.
912 2012-06-30 The market lost a little luster early Saturday when Kevin Garnett, who was due to become a free agent, agreed to an extension with the Boston Celtics. The deal is worth $34 million over three years, according to Yahoo Sports, and it will keep Garnett, a future Hall of Famer, in a Celtics uniform through his 39th birthday.

By locking up Garnett, the Celtics sent a clear signal that they are not ready to rebuild, or to cede the Eastern Conference to the Miami Heat. Despite their aging core, the Celtics took a 3-2 lead in the conference finals before losing to the Heat in seven games.

With Garnett, Paul Pierce and Rajon Rondo in the fold, Boston has a chance to extend the Big Three era, although perhaps with a different Big Three. The Celtics must still decide whether to bring back Allen, 36, another key piece of their 2008 title team. He is expected to be pursued by the Heat, the Knicks and the Phoenix Suns, although the Celtics can offer him the most money.

Williams, 28, is the best young player on the market, and the key to the Nets’ prosperity as they move to Brooklyn. The Nets are offering Williams a maximum contract, about $100 million over five years, but he is being heavily courted by the Dallas Mavericks, his hometown team. Under N.B.A. rules, Dallas and other rivals can offer Williams a maximum of about $75 million over four years.

The Mavericks began clearing salary-cap room Friday, sending Lamar Odom’s $8.2 million contract to the Los Angeles Clippers in a four-team deal. Dallas must make at least one more payroll move to have enough room to offer Williams a maximum salary of $17.1 million. One option is to use the so-called amnesty clause to remove the salary of Brendan Haywood ($8.35 million).

Williams is expected to meet with the Nets and the Mavericks in the first few days of free agency and could choose a team by the end of the week. Dollars aside, it will not be a simple decision.

The Mavericks have the better team at the moment, and a Williams-Dirk Nowitzki tandem would be among the best in the league. But Dallas has an aging core and little else to offer. Nowitzki is 34.

The Nets are effectively starting from scratch, with about $44 million in salary-cap room and five players under contract after Jordan Farmar opted in Saturday. If Williams returns, it would be on a leap of faith — a belief that General Manager Billy King can acquire Dwight Howard or another star to help him. At the moment, the Nets’ best complementary players are Brook Lopez and Gerald Wallace, who are also free agents.

If the Mavericks miss on Williams, they could turn their attention to Nash, who left Dallas for Phoenix eight years ago. Nash remains close friends with Nowitzki, and that pair could keep Dallas in contention for another few years.

Nash, 38, hinted to ESPN.com this week that he would probably leave the Suns. He will be pursued by the Toronto Raptors, as well as the Mavericks, the Nets and the Knicks. Nash spends his summers in New York and has spoken openly about playing here.

Point guard is the strongest position in this free-agent class. Others on the market include Jason Kidd, Andre Miller, Goran Dragic, Jameer Nelson, Raymond Felton, Aaron Brooks, George Hill, Chauncey Billups, Ramon Sessions and Jeremy Lin.

Kidd, 39, who helped Dallas win the title in 2011, is expected to draw interest from the Nets, the Knicks and the Golden State Warriors, his hometown team. Kidd and Williams are good friends who share an agent, and it will not be surprising if they land somewhere together.

This will be the first full free-agent period under the new labor deal, and the first true test of the N.B.A.’s new payroll restraints — which include a more punitive luxury tax, shorter contracts and smaller raises. Teams that exceed the tax threshold of $70 million will lose their $5 million midlevel exception and get a $3.09 million “taxpayer” exception.

In an early sign of the new austerity, the Memphis Grizzlies declined to make a qualifying offer to O. J. Mayo, their talented sixth man, making him an unrestricted free agent. Other effects are yet to be seen.

“I think the market is going to be a tad different,” one prominent agent said.
913 2012-06-30 Determined to cool off from the blistering heat, hundreds of people lined up on Saturday outside the pool in Brooklyn, which was shut down on Friday when lifeguards were attacked by unruly teenagers....
914 2012-06-30 June 29, 2012 - Is the hype over cloud computing justified?
915 2012-06-30 While much of the talk is about the gimmick of awarding home field in the World Series to the winner of the All-Star Game, baseball often forgets that the game is meant to be, above all, fun....
916 2012-06-30 AMR, the parent of American Airlines, wants more time to file a reorganization plan in bankruptcy without interference from outside parties. American and its unsecured creditors jointly asked a bankruptcy court on Friday to extend the airline’s so-called exclusivity period by three months, to Dec. 27. If approved, the move would hold off any merger bid by US Airways, which has expressed interest in a deal to combine networks and better compete with other carriers.
917 2012-06-30 The world gets an extra second this weekend as atomic clocks are adjusted to bring them in line with conventional timekeepers. Use it wisely....
918 2012-06-30 We need a better and braver class of critics....
919 2012-06-30 Hesjedal won May’s Giro d’Italia, becoming Canada’s first Grand Tour champion. The former world champion mountain biker will try to win a second at the Tour de France, but the double has proved elusive quarry in recent years. The last rider to win both the Giro and the Tour was Marco Pantani in 1998.

After a breakout fifth-place finish in the 2010 Tour, the young Dutchman was hampered by injury in last year’s race. Despite breaking his leg last September, Gesink showed great form in the latter half of this spring — winning May’s Tour of California and grabbing a fourth-place finish at the Tour de Suisse.

With 20 Tour stage wins to his name, Cavendish is the most decorated sprinter of his generation. Last year, he added a green jersey — awarded to the Tour’s best sprinter — to his trophy case. But this season, his preparations for late July’s Olympic road race have hampered his sprinting. Cavendish lost nearly nine pounds to improve his climbing abilities and may not be at full sprint strength. In addition, he won’t have the team support he has enjoyed in years’ past. With Team Sky organized around Bradley Wiggins, Cavendish will have to navigate the bunch sprints with one or two supporters — or maybe even on his own.

Last year’s finish: Did not ride

Despite his youth, Sagan could be the Tour’s top sprinter this year. A former mountain biker with a penchant for post-race wheelies, Sagan put his stamp on sprint finishes in May’s Tour of California, winning five of seven stages. But he is more versatile than a traditional sprinter like Cavendish; last year, he won the weeklong Tour of Poland.

A strong climber, van Garderen is probably America’s best hope for an overall Tour win in the coming years. Before then, he’ll have to pay his dues. This year he is charged with supporting his team leader, Cadel Evans, in the high mountains.

America’s top sprinter, Farrar finally broke through with his first stage win in last year’s Tour. Though he cut his left hand during a crash in the Giro d’Italia — the same hand he fractured in the 2010 Tour de France — he is now at full strength. A Belgian resident, Farrar has targeted winning the Tour’s second stage, the last stage in Belgium before the Tour heads west to France.

Last year’s finish: Withdrew after sustaining concussion in Stage 5

Earlier this month, the age-defying Horner did not think he would be riding this Tour. Though he was a top-10 finisher in 2010 and the 2011 Tour of California champion, Horner was originally — and somewhat controversially — passed over for Radioshack’s Tour team. But after Andy Schleck fractured his pelvis in mid-June, Horner packed his bags for France.

This will be Big George’s record-setting 17th Tour de France. A career support rider who could also sneak in a stage win, Hincapie has announced he will retire at the end of this season.

After breaking his leg during an April training ride in Spain, it was unclear whether Leipheimer could return for the Tour. But a third-place finish at the Tour de Suisse answered any questions about his form. With solid time-trialing and climbing skills, he is always a threat for a top-10 finish.

Vande Velde has finished in the top-10 twice in his career, including a fourth-place effort in 2008. This year, he’ll put any general classification ambitions aside to support his teammate Ryder Hesjedal, who won May’s Giro d’Italia.
920 2012-06-30 An unruly crowd at McCarren Pool in Brooklyn attacked the lifeguards Friday evening, leading the city’s parks department to close the pool early just one day after its reopening.

A fight broke out shortly after 6 p.m., about an hour before closing on what had been a sweltering day, when some teenagers doing back-flips into the pool refused to follow the lifeguards’ command to stop, said Vickie Karp, the department spokeswoman. The teenagers then attacked the lifeguards.

There were no serious injuries, Ms. Karp said, but the episode soured what was supposed to be a celebration, with the pool, on the Williamsburg-Greenpoint border, filled with swimmers for the first time in 28 years.

The city spent 30 months and $50 million to restore the pool to its former glory.

The pool is expected to open on time Saturday.
921 2012-06-30 “Unfortunately, we never had a really effective strategy around communicating to the public the benefits and the rationale behind health care reform,” said Ezekiel J. Emanuel, a physician and University of Pennsylvania vice provost who was a top White House adviser involved in developing the program. “We never had a spokesperson, and the public never really understood what we were doing.”

That failure still baffles supporters like Dr. Emanuel, given the significance of health care to Mr. Obama’s legacy. Some see it as a result of the president’s own instinctive diffidence or the natural desire to move to the next challenge. Others note the complexity of the act itself, or criticize the president’s advisers for not being more assertive.

But there was also calculation on the part of White House officials who concluded that the public was fatigued with the subject and more concerned about jobs. As they pondered plans to sell the overhaul, they found few troops to rally. Democratic lawmakers ran away from it and party donors refused to finance advertising to promote it.

“No one in history has ever been able to communicate successfully about health care, because it is a deeply personal and polarizing issue and people are therefore afraid of the unknown,” said Dan Pfeiffer, the White House communications director. “We need the law to be fully in effect before the known overtakes the unknown.”

Mr. Obama’s team holds out hope that with the validation of the court ruling, the health care law will generate more popular support as it is phased in through 2014. And they take heart from polls showing that elements of the law, like protections for those with pre-existing conditions, rate high with the public.

Some supporters have argued that other social programs in the past were controversial at first before becoming embedded in American society. But polling suggests that is not so.

Social Security was popular from the start, supported by 73 percent of Americans in early 1937 and 78 percent the next year in Gallup polls. Medicare had the approval of 62 percent in early 1965 and 82 percent by the end of that year in Harris polls.

By contrast, just 32 percent supported the Affordable Care Act when it was approved in March 2010, according to a New York Times/CBS News poll. As of a month ago, 34 percent supported it, virtually unchanged. To be sure, about a fifth of those who oppose it say it did not go far enough, essentially frustrated liberals.

That Mr. Obama’s presidency may be defined by the law would have seemed unlikely in March 2007, when as a presidential candidate he showed up for a health care forum in Las Vegas unprepared, by his own admission. When he finally developed a plan, he rejected requiring American adults to obtain health insurance and pilloried his chief opponent, Hillary Rodham Clinton, for supporting it.

As he took office, health care was on his agenda but not yet dominant. The economy was in a free-fall; health care competed with issues like climate change and immigration for Mr. Obama’s political capital. One adviser said if the White House had realized the economic troubles would be as sustained as they have been, health care might never have been on the table. Others disagree, arguing that health care did not detract from efforts to promote recovery.

Either way, health care rose to the fore in part through circumstance. The House passed a climate change bill, but it took deal-making and lobbying that alienated some around Mr. Obama. The White House concluded that the Senate could not pass the climate plan with only Democrats, since some from coal states opposed it. Likewise, Mr. Obama lost Republican cooperation on immigration, leaving health care the most plausible initiative.

“It wasn’t a choice so much as, of the three issues, the only one that had a chance was health care,” said a senior administration official who asked not to be named discussing priorities.

To pass health care, Mr. Obama abandoned his campaign position on the mandate. “The president we had to convince, because it was going back on what he promised,” Dr. Emanuel recalled. “But once we effectively laid out for him why this would be a better argument, he was convinced this was the right move.”

Still, some urged the president to narrow his ambitions, including Rahm Emanuel, his chief of staff and Dr. Emanuel’s brother. And victory came after an ugly process: closed-door deals with the pharmaceutical industry, policy inducements to recalcitrant lawmakers, legislative legerdemain after a Massachusetts special election cost Democrats their filibuster-proof supermajority.

To win over an unenthusiastic public, officials promised an aggressive campaign. In April 2010, a month after the law was signed, the White House hired Stephanie Cutter, a prominent Democratic strategist, to handle public outreach for it. But she was given other projects as well, and by August had been reassigned as Mr. Axelrod’s deputy. The White House and its allies made efforts to educate the public, hosting events and posting information online, but it was sporadic.

Critics say public discontent stems not from how the president sells the overhaul, but what he is selling.

“Democrats can point to a couple of aspects that light up some numbers for them, but when weighed against the negatives they get blown away,” said Jonathan Collegio, communications director for American Crossroads, a group that supports Mitt Romney for president.

Groups like Crossroads swamped the president’s allies with television advertising. Since the law’s passage, $235 million has been spent on ads attacking it, compared with $69 million for those supporting it, according to Kantar Media’s Campaign Media Analysis Group.

“I’d be a heck of a lot happier if I had $100 million too,” said Eddie Vale, communications director for Protect Your Care, which supports the law. “But we’re playing with the hand we’ve been dealt.”

As for the president, he has promoted his program in fits and starts. In his State of the Union address this year, he devoted two sentences to it — 44 words out of more than 7,000. Aides said they decided to focus on jobs.

“That is the A-No. 1 issue on people’s minds,” Mr. Pfeiffer said. “You can’t do both. You have to make choices.”
922 2012-06-30 “I just left some fastballs up and didn’t quite have my fastball command tonight,” Warren said. “I might’ve been rushing a little bit and was leaving balls up in the zone and I paid for it.”

Staked to a 4-0 lead, Warren fell behind hitters and served up inviting fastballs. The hits came in rapid-fire succession. Eight of the last 12 batters Warren faced reached base on a hit.

Catcher Chris Stewart said he did not believe Warren was tipping his pitches. Otherwise, he had trouble explaining what happened between the first and second innings.

“He was getting ahead in the first inning,” Stewart said. “This is a good hitting team. When you’re falling behind, they make you come over the plate and he did.”

With one out in the third, after a well-struck single by Alexei Ramirez, Girardi bounded up the dugout steps to pull Warren from the game after 77 pitches. A. J. Pierzynski hit two homers and Ramirez went 4 for 5 for the White Sox.

“It’s frustrating,” Warren said. “I take pride in going deep into games and that wasn’t the case tonight.”

David Phelps, recalled from Class A Tampa before the game, allowed two runs in three and a third innings. Cory Wade allowed two runs in the seventh and another four in the ninth.

The Yankees (46-30) jumped to a four-run lead off the rookie Jose Quintana in the first. Curtis Granderson hit a two-run homer and Andruw Jones followed with a two-run double off the wall in left field. But Quintana settled down and ultimately lasted six innings to get the win.

The misfire by Warren is likely to make the Yankees reconsider giving him another start, although Girardi would not reveal his plans. General Manager Brian Cashman said Wednesday that starting pitching replacements for Sabathia (groin) and Pettitte (fractured fibula) would almost certainly come from within the organization. The most likely candidate would be Phelps.

An unlikely option showed his stuff Friday. In the ninth inning, outfielder Dewayne Wise was approached in the dugout by Girardi, asking if he would pitch. Wise said he had not pitched since sophomore year of high school. But he eagerly took the ball to get the final two outs.

“I always said I hoped someday to get the chance,” Wise said.

Wise said he resisted the temptation to look over his shoulder at the radar gun (his fastball was in the low 80s). His appearance — the first by a Yankees position player in a home game since Gene Michael in 1968 and the first at all by a Yankees position player since Nick Swisher in 2009 — added a dose of levity to a forgettable night.

“I came in and everybody kind of laughed about it,” Wise said. “We’ve got to move on and get ready for tomorrow.”

With a double in the first inning, Derek Jeter passed Cal Ripken Jr. for 13th place on the career hits list. ... The Yankees acquired the right-handed pitcher Chris Schwinden off waivers and assigned him to Class AAA Scranton. Schwinden started two games for the Mets this season.
923 2012-06-30 China’s first female astronaut and two other crew members returned safely to Earth on Friday from a 13-day mission to an orbiting module that is a prototype for a future space station. Their spacecraft, the Shenzhou 9, parachuted to a landing on the grasslands of the Inner Mongolia region around 10 a.m. China declared the first manned mission to the Tiangong 1 module, the space program’s longest and most challenging yet, a major step for the country’s ambitious program. The mission was carried out by the astronauts Jing Haipeng, Liu Wang and Liu Yang, above, China’s first woman in space, and it included both remote control and piloted dockings with the module and extensive medical monitoring of the astronauts as part of preparations for a permanent space station.
924 2012-06-30 Re “Apple’s Retail Army, Long on Loyalty but Short on Pay” (“The iEconomy” series, front page, June 24):

It is remarkable that you would devote a major portion of the front page and two full inside pages to an article about the supposedly low wages paid to Apple Store employees. What is the point of such an article: to suggest that the wages Apple pays are somehow inappropriate or unfair?

A visit to an Apple store reveals that the advantages of this job must attract a sufficient number of qualified employees, so that it beats working at Costco.

If and when Apple finds it necessary to pay higher wages to secure the work force it needs, it will surely know how to do so.

The writer is an employment lawyer.

If Apple’s board had given its chief executive, Tim Cook, an ample $70 million in compensation instead of the stock grants that at today’s price are worth an outrageous $570 million, each of Apple Store’s 30,000 employees in this country could have averaged a bonus of $16,000.

If Apple had done that, it would have 30,000 happy employees, and it would have set a bar for other employers. Instead, it chooses to demonstrate why there is a difference between the 1 percent and the rest of the workers.
925 2012-06-30 Devils goalie Martin Brodeur, 40, began considering his options by hiring an agent, two days before the start of the N.H.L.’s free-agency period. Though Brodeur has indicated he would prefer re-signing with the Devils, his agent, Pat Brisson wrote, “We will see,” about Brodeur’s possible testing of free agency.

The Devils signed five players, including the fourth line of Steve Bernier, Ryan Carter and Stephen Gionta, which played a key role in the playoffs.
926 2012-06-30 Now that the law has been ruled constitutional, it is imperative that as many states as possible move aggressively to establish a centerpiece of the reform structure: new policy exchanges for people who lack affordable coverage through an employer. Federal subsidies will be available for those with low or moderate incomes.

States that were dawdling or refusing to set up exchanges in expectation that the would strike down the law have little time left to meet tight deadlines. If they fail, the federal government will establish an exchange to serve their residents, who otherwise would have no way to obtain subsidies to reduce the cost of their insurance.

The exchanges will essentially be online marketplaces for private plans that provide a package of essential benefits and consumer protections like guaranteed coverage for pre-existing conditions. They will compete to sell policies to individuals, families and small businesses. Anyone can use the exchanges to gain the benefits of comparative shopping, but most customers are expected to be individuals and families with incomes between 133 percent and 400 percent of the federal poverty level. They will be eligible for federal subsidies to make insurance affordable.

Many states are well on the way toward setting up exchanges, a complicated process in which governance procedures must be established, standards must be set for the plans that will compete and new information technologies put in place. The big uncertainty is how many Republican-led states will refuse to set up exchanges either because they adamantly oppose all aspects of the reform law or because they are reluctant to spend any time, effort or money to set up a mechanism that they hope Republicans will repeal after the November elections. That sounds like wishful thinking. States would be foolish to rely on it with deadlines fast approaching.

States must tell the secretary of health and human services by Nov. 16, just 10 days after the election, whether or not they plan to set up their own exchanges. The secretary must then certify by Jan. 1, 2013, whether states are on track to start enrolling people by Oct. 1, 2013, and to actually open for business on Jan. 1, 2014.

The Obama administration, which is eager to see the law implemented effectively, seems willing to accommodate any states that will make a good-faith effort. On Friday, the secretary, Kathleen Sebelius, announced that, in addition to grants already made to 34 states and the to plan their exchanges, she would open up additional financing sources that could be used even after the original start-up deadline. She also pledged to work closely with the states to tailor a federal exchange to meet their needs and a plan for transition to state control.
927 2012-06-30 Google unveiled a new wireless home media player, Ann Curry tearfully announced her forced exit as a co-host of the “Today” show and Rupert Murdoch announced that News Corporation’s newspapers would be spun off into a separate company.
928 2012-06-30 Georgia tailback Isaiah Crowell was dismissed from the team by Coach Mark Richt after his arrest on felony weapons charges. The police said they found a gun in Crowell’s vehicle early Friday morning on campus. Among the charges he faces are carrying a concealed weapon and possession of a weapon on school property. As a freshman in 2011, Crowell led Georgia with 850 yards rushing.

¶ The N.C.A.A. said it would reconsider scholarship penalties imposed on Boise State’s football program. In a 25-page decision, the N.C.A.A. Division I Infractions Appeals Committee concluded that the scholarship penalty announced last September, in addition to Boise State’s self-imposed sanctions, was “excessive such that it constituted an abuse of discretion.” (AP)
929 2012-06-30 The government denied responsibility for any of the attacks, but they fit a pattern of harassment that included a crackdown on independent media.

Mr. Kagame’s resounding victory did not lessen his government’s distaste for criticism. Early last year, two journalists were sentenced to prison for insulting the president and violating the law against “genocide ideology.”

Last November, an online journalist, Charles Ingabire (no relation to Victoire), received death threats and was then fatally shot as he left a bar in Kampala, Uganda, where he had been living in exile. No one has been charged.

Many outsiders find it hard to understand why Mr. Kagame would allow such human rights abuses, when Rwanda needs international support to meet the challenges of overpopulation and a paucity of natural resources. Mr. Kagame has advocated high-tech investment and promoted education in English instead of French. International investment has risen, and transparency has improved. Visitors to Kigali are invariably impressed by the government officials and businessmen they encounter. Most of these Rwandans, like Mr. Kagame, are repatriated refugees from the ethnic Tutsi minority who returned after the genocide.

Some outsiders, mindful of the intense trauma Rwandans suffered 18 years ago, are willing to tolerate the crackdown on dissent as long as economic growth and the appearance of social calm continue.

But that is a mistake. It is time to worry instead that Mr. Kagame is rebuilding the country with authoritarian practices that could ultimately undermine Rwanda’s economic achievements.

His intolerance of dissent stifles the debate and free thought Rwanda needs if it is to become a modern, technologically advanced economy. The coercive nature of his government’s national unity program could someday drag it back into ethnic conflict.

The government says it wants to create a new identity in which all would see themselves as Rwandans, neither Hutu nor Tutsi. But this strikes many Rwandans as an effort to impose a false unity on them while cynically using the threat of renewed violence to strengthen the government’s position.

An inability to speak openly about ethnic feelings allows ethnic resentments to fester as whispers. Many Hutus privately complain not only that Tutsis monopolize the government but that Tutsis are the sole beneficiaries of Rwanda’s growth.

The Kagame government has a rare opportunity to relax its restrictions on freedom of expression. One reason given for extending Ms. Ingabire’s wait for a verdict is that Rwanda’s Supreme Court has yet to hand down a ruling on a challenge to the constitutionality of the “genocide ideology” law. If the government were to amend or rescind the law, it would be a good first step toward welcoming free and responsible debate.

The government should also respond to concerns about its military interference in Congo by acknowledging its role in the conflict there — particularly human rights abuses in eastern Congo from 1998 to 2002 — and by helping to apprehend Bosco Ntaganda, a Rwandan and a protégé of the Kagame government, whom the International Criminal Court has indicted for war crimes.

Steps like these could safeguard Rwanda’s reputation as an innovative leader for East Africa. In the end, Mr. Kagame’s reaction to growing criticism this summer will show whether he is truly committed to Rwanda’s transformation, or only to preserving his power.
930 2012-06-30 The N.H.L. and the players union opened negotiations on a new labor deal by meeting for about two and a half hours. The collective bargaining agreement expires Sept. 15. There is fear the league could be heading toward another lockout.
931 2012-06-30 ALBANY (AP) — The state attorney general’s office has accused the former leader of a prominent abortion-rights group of spending hundreds of thousands of dollars of charitable money on shopping sprees, a Hamptons vacation rental, fine dining, hotels and other personal luxuries.

The accusation is included in a civil complaint filed in Manhattan on Thursday against Kelli Conlin, 54, who pleaded guilty a year ago to falsifying business records, a felony. Her criminal case closed without jail time after she repaid $75,000 in restitution to Naral Pro-Choice New York and its affiliated foundation, which she led from 1992 through 2010.

But David Nachman, enforcement section chief of the attorney general’s Charities Bureau, said Ms. Conlin’s spending actually amounted to “hundreds of thousands of dollars in improper benefits.”

The attorney general’s office is requesting that she repay all of it, with interest, and reimburse its own legal and investigative costs.

Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman has recused himself because his father, Irving, was the treasurer for a time of Naral Pro-Choice New York. His office appointed an outside counsel to investigate Ms. Conlin in March 2011. Naral and other abortion-rights groups were among Mr. Schneiderman’s supporters in his 2010 campaign for attorney general.

Naral Pro-Choice New York and the National Institute for Reproductive Health said Friday that they applauded the civil action and had put new financial controls in place since Ms. Conlin was terminated in January 2011. The group said that it did an internal investigation and that it had cooperated with the attorney general’s investigation.
932 2012-06-30 Reports released Friday showed a mixed picture of the economy, with consumers still feeling pinched but business activity picking up.

Confidence among American consumers declined in June to the lowest level this year as they grew more pessimistic about prospects for the economy. In addition, consumer spending stalled in May as slower job gains and a lack of wage growth prompted Americans to cut back.

But another survey showed that business activity expanded in June at a faster pace than expected.

The final numbers for the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer sentiment fell to 73.2 this month from 79.3 in May. The gauge was projected to hold at the preliminary reading of 74.1, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.

Unemployment exceeding 8 percent for 40 consecutive months is limiting wage growth and restraining household spending, which accounts for 70 percent of the economy. At the same time, Europe’s debt crisis is prompting volatility in the stock market, making Americans feel less wealthy.

Estimates for the Michigan confidence measure ranged from 72 to 76, according to the Bloomberg survey. The June decline was the first in 10 months. The index averaged 64.2 during the last recession and 89 in the five years before the 18-month economic slump that ended in June 2009.

A Commerce Department report on consumer spending showed purchases unchanged, the weakest since November. Revised figures for April showed a weak rise of just 0.1 percent, smaller than initially reported. The median estimate of 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for no change.
933 2012-06-30 In lieu of a plaque, museum officials often walk around and tell patrons the story of the wood. “We get all sorts of comments,” Andrew Stewart, a museum spokesman, said. “People ask, ‘Can we have a hot dog on it?’ ”

Reclaimed lumber has become an increasingly popular design material for the recycling age, especially in the case of highly durable tropical hardwoods like ipe, used on Coney Island, which comes from endangered Brazilian .

Also, using salvaged materials enhances a building’s LEED rating, an environmental distinction architects covet.

The parks department says it tries to reuse what it can but then allows contractors to sell, discard or give away the rest. (The city makes no money from it.) That is how an architectural salvage company in Philadelphia came to haul away 20 trailer loads of Coney Island wood in 2010.

It supplied the Barnes Foundation with about 6,000 feet of flooring — milled in Amish country — from the thicker support beams beneath the boardwalk.

Scott Lash, a partner at the company, Provenance Mill Works, said Coney Island wood offered “a unique opportunity” to use an endangered material and yet feel good about it.

At the Barnes, the wood is in the elevator and staircases, and a border to the oak floors in the 23 galleries, but is most striking in the Light Court, the soaring entrance hall. Arranged in a herringbone pattern 28 feet wide and 155 feet long, the refashioned boardwalk forms a tapestry of caramel, red and chocolate hues — the original colors revealed by stripping the wood’s .

products have seemed synonymous with , and in Venice, Calif., a star chef has embraced the ethos of reclaimed wood. Travis Lett, 33, of Gjelina there, originally went to Provenance’s yard to buy Pennsylvania bluestone with his designer, Sam Marshall.

They saw the wood and were intrigued, especially since Mr. Lett grew up in Morristown, N.J., and recalled going to Coney Island as a child. They had it trucked cross-country, then laid it on the floors, shower and deck of Mr. Lett’s renovated 1,500-square-foot home blocks from the beach.

“Combining these resources from the East Coast and reusing them in this way is very California,” Mr. Lett said. “I love being connected to the source.”

The source could not have been any closer for Michael Sarrel, the owner of Ruby’s Bar and Grill on the Coney Island Boardwalk. For two years, a new landlord threatened to oust his and other longtime boardwalk establishments, and only after tense negotiations could he sign a long-term lease in December — provided he would renovate the bar.

When he saw boardwalk planks in garbage bins on Stillwell Avenue and 15th Street, 100 feet from his restaurant, he got the demolition crews to give him 10,000 feet without charge, Mr. Sarrel said. But using the wood ended up costing him well over $10,000, he said, and posing unforeseen challenges: extracting the beams from the joists, and taking out all the nails and screws.

Carpenters cut through the wood as hard as stone to form tables, walls, the ceiling and the bar.

“We want to keep the place looking old, but looking new,” Mr. Sarrel said. “We want it to look clean, but look dirty.”

Mr. Sarrel had stored the lumber in the lot of a flea market, but when it prepared to open this spring, he rushed to get rid of his surplus. Gwen Schantz, the chief operating officer of Brooklyn Grange, an located on a roof in Long Island City, Queens, answered his advertisement and paid him $500 for 1,500 square feet of wood. Mr. Sarrel posted another advertisement and gave pieces away as souvenirs.

Ms. Schantz had a 60-by-15-foot deck built for Brooklyn Grange, hauling the wood with the help of Build It Green! NYC, another Brooklyn nonprofit organization.

Build It Green took the surplus and sold it for about $2 a foot to roughly 20 people, including designers.

Anthony Malat plans to make a desk, maintaining the familiar silver color. “When you get the boards wet,” he said, “they still smell strongly of the ocean.”

Alan Solomon, an owner of Sawkill Lumber of Brooklyn, supplied it to designers who used it for patio planters at Palazzo Chupi, ’s five-unit condominium in the West Village, and on tables at Think Coffee on 14th Street.

A Brooklyn furniture company, Uhuru, made a line of five Coney Island designs, including a lounger curved like the Cyclone roller coaster that retails for $7,500. It was chosen for the craft show next month at the Smithsonian’s Renwick Gallery in .

Although the preservationists are pleased to see the material finding new life, the issue is “double-sided,” said Todd Dobrin, the founder of Friends of the Boardwalk, a group dedicated to saving the wooden boardwalk.

“It’s frustrating because it shows the quality of the wood is good and strong enough so that if you maintain it properly it would last a lot longer,” Mr. Dobrin said.

But the parks department’s chief spokeswoman, Vickie Karp, said: “The recycled lumber is not suitable for use as a boardwalk. It cannot withstand the weight or the weather.”

The department did recycle the wood directly to another park. The McCarren Park pool opened on Thursday in Brooklyn after a 30-month renovation with Coney Island wood (milled to reddish brown) on the walls of the corridors and fitness and changing rooms.

Scott Demel, the project manager for Rogers Marvel, architect for the McCarren renovation, said, “It was an opportunity to use the wood and tell the story about it.”

That story ends where it begins, on a boardwalk that since opening in 1923 has been perpetually reinventing itself. The city has filled the space beneath the planks with sand, and its new plan for some sections is to combine concrete with recycled plastic lumber. But at Ruby’s, in business since 1934, history endures.

“It’s the last place in Coney Island,” Mr. Sarrel said, “where you can still walk under the boardwalk.”
934 2012-06-30 NAIROBI, Kenya — The American ambassador to Kenya, once a confidant of President Obama, abruptly announced on Friday — days before the release of a stinging internal audit — that he was resigning, citing “differences with Washington.” His departure will leave the top embassy post vacant at a time when Kenya is increasingly being drawn into a battle with militant Islam.

At about the same time that the ambassador, Scott Gration, was giving a tearful farewell to embassy staff members, suspected Somali militants attacked a convoy of aid workers near the Kenya-Somalia border, according to reports in state-run news media. The gunmen shot and killed a driver before kidnapping four international aid workers and two Kenyans working for the Norwegian Refugee Council in the sprawling Dadaab refugee camp, the world’s largest. The gunmen — and the hostages — then vanished, last seen heading into the Somali desert, the reports said.

Mr. Gration’s announcement came just before the release next month of a United States government audit that is highly critical of his leadership and management of the embassy, State Department officials told The Associated Press. Mr. Gration announced his resignation after seeing a draft of the report, The A.P. said.

Kenya has suffered a string of kidnappings along the Somalia border, including the abduction of a Frenchwoman who was dragged from a beachfront bungalow and later died in Somalia. There has also been a number of deadly grenade attacks since October, when Kenya sent several thousand troops into Somalia to confront the Shabab, Somalia’s most fearsome Islamist group.

Mr. Gration, a former Air Force pilot and general who had served as a campaign adviser to Mr. Obama, said the ambassadorship to Kenya was his “dream job.” But since he got here in May 2011 — and even before that — Mr. Gration has been a bit of a lightning rod. Before his posting to Kenya, he served as Mr. Obama’s special envoy for Sudan and was routinely criticized by advocacy groups as being too conciliatory toward Sudan’s president, Omar Hassan al-Bashir, who has been indicted by the International Criminal Court on genocide charges for massacres in Darfur.

Mr. Gration seemed to slip up when he told The Washington Post in 2009, while discussing his strategy for Sudan: “We’ve got to think about giving out cookies. Kids, countries — they react to gold stars, smiley faces, handshakes, agreements, talk, engagement.” Some Sudan analysts, though, praised him for trying to nudge Sudan toward compromise, saying a new approach was needed to break through years of poisonous mistrust.
935 2012-06-30 “I absolutely couldn’t believe it; how could that be possible?” one driver, Zhang Peng, said. “It was completely illegal.”

The smaller vehicles that travel between Chinese communities in the city are typically owned individually by their drivers who collect the fares for themselves but often pay fleet owners to deal with city agencies and to handle licensing and other bureaucratic matters.

Competition has been cutthroat for years, characterized by fistfights, screaming matches in traffic jams and underhanded tactics between fleet owners to gain an edge. But now it has been ratcheted up higher than ever by the large buses, with their 57-passenger capacity and rock-bottom prices — they were charging $1 for a one-way ride between the Chinatowns in Queens and Manhattan, compared with $2.75 to ride the smaller vehicles.

Some of the new workers, including Chen Yuying, 40, said they had recently been laid off from the interstate lines as a result of the federal crackdown. She and other hawkers who arrived with the big buses were promoting the new low fare near Confucius Plaza in Manhattan’s Chinatown this week, pulling in passengers happy to pay it. Feeling muscled out, the other drivers tried desperately to lure passengers, even resorting to jumping out of their smaller buses and doing their own barking at customers that they too would offer the dollar fare. One driver, Yu Nianxi, 59, made the offer grudgingly because it would cause him to “lose money with every trip.”

“Government closed the big buses because they were not safe,” he said. “Now they’re here? What kind of safety is this?”

Van drivers said that despite the intense competitive climate, they had usually managed to maintain a working relationship, and some sort of order, by agreeing to take turns and following a numbering system to share passengers. The big buses’ arrival has upended that gentlemen’s agreement, they said.

The ownership of the big buses was hard to determine — their drivers refused to answer questions. Many van drivers said the big buses were brought in by Tony Luo, the longtime king of the commuter van industry. Mr. Luo, who runs his business out of an office opposite from a van stop on 41st Avenue, just off Main Street in Flushing, did not respond to messages.

The large buses had no visible city licensing stickers of the sort displayed by the vans. Rather, they displayed federal licensing numbers, typically used by interstate buses, and the name New Oriental Tour. According to records, New Oriental Tour is based at the same address on 41st Avenue that Mr. Luo uses for his livery car service, Yes Car Service.

Under law, commuter van services are permitted only to operate vehicles of up to 19 passengers, a spokesman for the New York City Transportation Department said, adding that the agency would investigate the situation involving the buses.

Councilman Peter Koo, who represents Flushing, said the size of the buses and the length of time it took to fill them could aggravate local traffic. “Big buses are for interstate travel,” he said. “They’re not good for traffic, especially in Flushing.”

One driver, Zhang Wenjun, 42, who began driving the smaller buses a year ago, said that he paid $50,000 for his van and that even before the big buses arrived, he was lucky to clear $100 a day after expenses. Now his ridership had largely been siphoned off by the large buses, he said. Some longtime passengers offered to pay him $2 a ride, as a show of loyalty, he said.

“I have to pay for maintenance, , pay rent — still owe $30,000 for the minibus,” he said. “Now the big buses are here, and there’s nothing I can do about it.”
936 2012-06-30 My other question was why the class should be only for private school students. (One year for a boarding student at Westover tops $47,000 a year.) Do they need this type of education?

“When we say we’re at Milton, Middlesex and Westover, some people say you’re helping rich white girls learn about the financial services industry,” Ms. Thorne said. “This is really about girls who are emerging as leaders and how to help those girls have the finance and investing knowledge they will need.”

The program, she said, will be expanded to other schools if the pilot works.

The class I sat in on was actually had a mix of students, some whose parents paid full tuition, some on financial aid and some from abroad. Here is some of what I learned.

THE APPROACH The curriculum is a mix of classroom learning, field trips and mentoring. Each part is meant to advance a particular goal in making the students better prepared for future careers.

All the classes are taught by a woman who works in finance. The four classes in the first year consist of an overview of the program’s objectives, and discussions of spending, savings and investments.

“All the girls want to talk about is stocks,” Ms. Thorne said. “We can’t talk about investing before we talk about budgeting and saving. We’re about how to build a strong understanding of finance.”

While all three schools are following the same curriculum, they have different businesswomen teaching the classes.

Twice a year, Invest in Girls arranges for field trips to see women at work and also to learn how to network with students from other schools, said Emilie Liebhoff, chief executive of the group. This year, they went to Windhaven Investment Management in Boston and the Hanover Insurance Group in Worcester, Mass.

But the mentoring part is where they get to ask how to apply their learning. Ultimately, students will be taught not just about their own money, but about roles they can play in a business.

THE CLASSROOM What I saw in the classroom was messier and less polished than I had expected.

The night I was there, Connie Everson, a managing director at Capital Markets Outlook Group, a research firm in Boston, was trying to explain how capital markets work. Watching her, I felt sympathy. It is hard for many of us to remember when we did not understand all the financial jargon that is regularly used on television and online. But it was also refreshing to hear a group of 15-year-olds ask why a stock goes up or down.

Toward the end of her talk, we were all asked to look at the bags of Starbust candies Ms. Everson had distributed at the start of the class. Each one had a different combination of red, orange and yellow candies that represented stocks, bonds and cash.

Since no bag had the same number of colors, every student was forced to consider concepts like asset diversification, risk assessment and liquidity in a simple but effective way.

Invest in Girls uses little tricks like this to explain complicated concepts to high school sophomores. (At another point, Ms. Everson compared a portfolio to a closet, with its various types of attire for different occasions.)

And those methods appealed to the schools.

“This is what we’ve been thinking about all along for girls — what are the nontraditional fields we want girls to have access to,” Ann Pollina, Westover’s head of school, told me. “We wanted to help them understand what women do in business. We wanted to help them get a picture of what women in those fields really do.”

Afterward, students told me the program had spurred them to want to learn more.

THE MENTOR RELATIONSHIP Each girl was paired with a woman who works in finance to learn about what they do.

Cailee Tallon, a student at Westover, said she was initially interested in the program because she would like to become a doctor and knew that business skills would be essential for her future.

“I know you need to be able to handle your finances,” she said. “I don’t want to be in a position when I graduate from college that I don’t know how to handle my money.”

But her mentor, Lia Eddy, who works as an analyst in the loan department at Admirals Bank in Boston, said she found Cailee was equally interested in the nuts and bolts of paying for medical education.

“She was more interested in how do I get a loan in college,” Ms. Eddy said. “It helped me in a way, because I had to explain to her what I was going through with my own loans.”

In other cases, students were able to see their mentors in the workplace.

That was what Jennifer DiMario Sabatini, a vice president at Loomis Sayles in Boston, did for her mentee, Gabby DeBartolomeo. Gabby said she was more interested in going into business now than before the program.

“I learned the most about when you have an income and you’re earning money, what to do with that money,” Gabby said. “All the money I make baby-sitting goes into a low-interest savings account. I.I.G. has made me more interested in investing that money and watching it grow.”

Ms. Sabatini said Gabby’s straightforward questions — what is liquidity? — got her thinking about the importance of teaching teenagers about finance.

“For me, I don’t think twice about the word,” Ms. Sabatini said. “But you hear all these stats about kids being courted by credit cards on campus and coming out with debt. You see the need to educate them earlier on about financial issues.”

That may be the biggest factor in determining the careers they will have.
937 2012-06-30 The gains were enough to help the markets close out the first half of the year on a strong note. The Dow is now up 5.4 percent for the first six months of the year, while the S.& P. has gained 8.3 percent and the Nasdaq has risen 12.66 percent. In Europe, the news was enough to lift leading stock indexes in a few countries, including England and Sweden, into positive territory for the year. The FTSE 100 in London gained 1.42 percent on Friday while the CAC 40 in Paris soared 4.75 percent. The Euro Stoxx 50 index, which covers an array of blue-chip companies in the euro zone, was up 5 percent.

European leaders gathered in Brussels unexpectedly decided to allow European bailout funds to be used to directly prop up banks that were faltering under the weight of bad loans and assets. While many of the details still need to be worked out, the initial optimism that greeted the announcement sent the value of the euro soaring.

The stock rally also suppressed demand for some safe-haven assets like United States Treasuries. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 18/32 to 100 31/32, sending its yield to 1.64 percent, from 1.58 percent late Thursday.

Still, investors remain skeptical about the long-term effects of the deal in solving Europe’s problems. Since 2010, there have been more than a dozen meetings of top politicians aimed at resolving the European crisis and none have managed to stop the Continent’s debt problems from spreading. This time, there is hope that European leaders are showing a new willingness to address some of the fundamental issues they have avoided.

“The sense that these officials have a tin ear to the markets is receding as they directly address the big concerns,” said Alec Young, global equity strategist with S.& P. Capital IQ. “We hadn’t seen that in the past.”

Traders have seen their optimism on Europe dashed before. Markets rallied at the beginning of the year, soon after the European Central Bank announced that it would give banks cheap loans so they could buy the debt issued by European nations. The bullish atmosphere was killed in the early spring when investors began to focus again on the growing resistance to budget cuts in Greece and the mounting real estate losses being experienced by the bank in Spain, one of Europe’s largest economies. The last three months have been particularly rough on investors, and even with the latest gains, the S.& P. 500 is down 3.3 percent in the second quarter, which ended Friday.

European leaders tried to solve Spain’s problem a few weeks ago by lending the government there 100 billion euros to support the country’s banks. But that only increased the heavy debt load of the government and encouraged doubts that Spain would eventually be unable to pay the interest payments on its own bonds.

The agreement on Friday tries to address the concerns by allowing the European Stability Mechanism, a new bailout fund, to directly inject capital into Spain’s banks. The plan also eases the conditions under which the European bailout funds can be used to buy government bonds, a move that could benefit Spain and Italy if their borrowing costs remain under pressure.

Angela Merkel, Germany’s chancellor, has resisted past efforts to shift the debt burden of Europe’s weaker nation’s onto Germany and its neighbors. She came around this week after other leaders agreed to a plan that would move Europe’s banks under stricter regulations.

Ms. Merkel had tamped down expectations before this week’s summit meeting. And some strategists said that much of the rally on Friday was because of the dark mood that had overtaken the markets in recent days.

“Given how low expectations were, it’s no surprise” that the markets are up, said Charles Diebel, head of market strategy at Lloyds Banking in London. “But it’s too early to say Europe’s saved.”

The measures agreed to this week could still face resistance from individual European countries. And it does not solve some of Europe’s more fundamental problems, including the lack of any central oversight of the budgets and deficits of member nations, and the recession that has gripped several of Europe’s weaker economies.

“They’ve moved the ball a little, but I think they’ll have to come back in two or three months and do something again,” said Jeff Saut, the chief strategist at the brokerage firm Raymond James.

In the United States, economists are waiting for companies to begin announcing their second quarter financial results to see how much the European slowdown has hit American companies. On Friday, new data showed that spending by American consumers fell in May, and consumer sentiment dropped in June to its lowest level of the year.

Michael Purves, the chief global strategist at Weeden & Company said that “if Europe gets some resolution the U.S. fundamentals will be very much in the spotlight again.”
938 2012-06-30 Anheuser-Busch InBev agreed on Friday to buy the half of the Mexican brewer Grupo Modelo it does not already own for $20.1 billion, the latest deal in the fast-consolidating global brewing industry.     Anheuser-Busch InBev, whose brands include B...
939 2012-06-30 7:38 p.m. | Updated An investor group led by Sony closed its $2.2 billion acquisition of EMI Music Publishing on Friday, creating a giant force in music publishing, the unglamorous but lucrative side of the music business that deals with songwriti...
940 2012-06-30 The Philadelphia Orchestra, which filed for bankruptcy last year, jolting the classical music world, announced on Thursday that its reorganization plan had been approved by a federal bankruptcy court and that it expects to emerge from Chapter 11 b...