1 2006-02-01 New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, in presenting the city's budget, counseled austerity becuse he sees the real estate market slowing and prices dropping. That would mean less tax revenue. "The city's commercial occupancy rate is the highest in the...
2 2006-02-01 3 slices bacon in 1-inch pieces

3 garlic cloves, peeled

2 large eggs

½ cup bread crumbs (¾ cup if coarse-textured panko)

Salt

1¼ pounds ground pork

½ cup (loosely packed) coarsely chopped mint leaves, more for garnish

1 28-ounce can diced tomatoes (preferably fire-roasted), drained of all but ¼ cup juice

1 or 2 chipotle chilies in adobo, stemmed, seeded and sauce reserved

1 teaspoon dried oregano, preferably Mexican

About 1½ cups beef or chicken broth.

1. Heat oven to 450 degrees. In a food processor, combine bacon and 1 garlic clove. Process until finely chopped. Add eggs, bread crumbs and 1 teaspoon salt. Pulse several times to combine thoroughly, then add pork and mint. Pulse a few more times until well combined but not a paste. Remove meat from processor.

2. With wet hands, form meat into about 16 plum-size balls and space them out in a 13-by-9-inch baking dish. Bake until lightly browned, about 15 minutes.

3. While meatballs bake, combine tomatoes, ¼ cup tomato juice, chipotles, 1 to 2 tablespoons chipotle sauce, oregano, remaining garlic cloves (cut in half) and ½ teaspoon salt in a blender or food processor. Process to a smooth purée.

4. When meatballs are ready, spoon off rendered fat from baking dish, then pour tomato mixture on top, covering meatballs evenly. Bake until sauce has thickened somewhat, 15 to 20 minutes.

5. Heat broth in a small saucepan. Divide meatballs among four dinner plates, leaving sauce behind. Stir enough broth into sauce to give it a spoonable consistency. Taste and season with salt, if necessary. Spoon sauce over meatballs, decorate with extra mint leaves, if you wish, and serve.
3 2006-02-01 James Frey's literary agent said in an interview published yesterday that she had dropped Mr. Frey as a client after learning, "along with the rest of the world," that he made up substantial portions of his book, "A Million Little Pieces."

In an interview published online yesterday by Publishers Weekly, a trade journal, the agent, Kassie Evashevski, also said that although Mr. Frey had maintained that his book was true, she did, at his request, bring up with "a few publishers" the possibility of publishing "A Million Little Pieces" as a novel.

"Early in the submission process, James raised the issue of whether he could publish it as an autobiographical novel, only, he said, to spare his family undue embarrassment, not because it wasn't true," Ms. Evashevski is quoted as saying in the article, which was posted at www.publishersweekly.com.

"I told him I would bring it up with a few publishers, which I did, and the response was unanimous: if the book is true, it should be published as a memoir," she added.

Ms. Evashevski, an agent at Brillstein-Grey Entertainment in Los Angeles, has not responded to requests for comment since Jan. 8, when the Smoking Gun investigative Web site reported on Mr. Frey's fabrications; she did not comment yesterday. Through a spokesman, Mr. Frey also declined to comment yesterday.

The agent said that Mr. Frey had always maintained to her, as well as to his editor, Sean McDonald, and to his publisher, Nan A. Talese, that his book was a true account of his addiction and recovery. "He did say he had changed the names and identifying characteristics of his fellow rehab patients, but, until recently, always maintained the veracity of his account," she said.

Ms. Evashevski said that she terminated her relationship with Mr. Frey "in the last week," when "it became impossible for me to maintain a relationship once the trust had been broken."
4 2006-02-01 Coretta Scott King, known first as the wife of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., then as his widow, then as an avid proselytizer for his vision of racial peace and nonviolent social change, died Monday at a hospital in Mexico. She was 78.      ...
5 2006-02-01 Mr. Hueston, who spoke for 90 minutes, said the government would focus not on the Byzantine accounting that many have attributed to the criminal activity inside Enron, but on the purportedly misleading statements that Mr. Skilling and Mr. Lay gave to investors in 2000 and 2001 -- lies, the government said, that hurt Enron and gave the two men insider knowledge about when to sell stock.

The defense countered with its own portrait of a pioneering company built by Mr. Skilling, a former management consultant, and Mr. Lay, a poor Missouri farm boy, that grew rapidly through risk-taking. What ultimately killed Enron, the defense said, was a "death spiral" that began when the market panicked and creditors pulled their support for Enron's trading operation.

"Ken Lay has, does and will continue to accept responsibility for the fall of Enron," Michael Ramsey, Mr. Lay's lead lawyer, said. "He was the man at the controls. But failure is not a crime."

Mr. Ramsey and Daniel Petrocelli, Mr. Skilling's lead lawyer, vowed to attack the government's case by defending the allegedly fraudulent accounting that the government now says it will not focus on. But Mr. Lay's lawyer also laid out a case that will blame outsiders, including short-sellers, The Wall Street Journal and Enron's own over-reliance on trading to produce profits, for stoking the crisis of confidence that led to the company's descent to the largest bankruptcy filing in history at the time.

The courtroom was packed for opening arguments. Family members of Mr. Lay and Mr. Skilling filled one row. Mr. Skilling smiled and, during breaks, touched the heads of his three children and his wife, Rebecca Carter, a former Enron corporate secretary. Mr. Lay sometimes left the courtroom with his arm around the shoulders of his wife, Linda.

The jurors focused intently; several took notes on yellow legal pads.

Lawyers said the trial would be a pitched battle. "It is going to be extremely difficult for this jury to sit in judgment," said Philip Hilder, a lawyer representing Sherron S. Watkins, a likely government witness. "Both sides made very compelling cases. You can see it is going to be a real slugfest between the parties."

The government has accused Mr. Skilling of 31 counts of conspiracy, fraud and insider trading; Mr. Lay is accused of 7 counts of conspiracy and fraud.

To make its point, the government told the judge, Simeon Lake III, that the first witness on Wednesday would be Mark E. Koenig, the former head of investor relations. Kenneth D. Rice, the former head of the broadband unit and once a close friend of Mr. Skilling, will be the second witness, prosecutors said. Mr. Koenig is expected to testify about purportedly misleading statements both men made to analysts and large investors about Enron.

Mr. Hueston, in his opening statement, said that by the middle of 2001 Enron had grown to the seventh-largest company in the country with 28,000 employees, profit growth of 15 to 20 percent a year and stock that "seemed to defy gravity." But inside the company, the true conditions of Enron's broadband unit and the retail energy unit, which handled the energy needs of large-scale businesses like J. C. Penney department stores, were far worse than Mr. Skilling was telling investors.

Mr. Hueston played for jurors a series of audio tapes and videos that contrasted Mr. Skilling's apparently truthful statements about the units to employees, where he seemed to lay out the problems, and then quite different statements he made to investors just days later. On March 15, 2001, Mr. Skilling told employees in Portland, Ore., that Enron would be redeploying about 240 people out of the broadband unit. "The whole revenue opportunity we saw in this marketplace is gone," he said. Eight days later he told investors on a conference call that broadband was "looking good" and that the redeployment of the employees was "good news."

Mr. Skilling, Mr. Hueston said, knew when he abruptly left Enron in August 2001 that there were "billions of dollars of losses at Enron." Those included losses of more than $500 million in the retail unit that had been disguised by a transfer to the profitable wholesale energy-trading unit.

In addition to Mr. Koenig and Mr. Rice, Mr. Hueston said other witnesses include the former chief financial officer, Andrew S. Fastow; Paula Rieker, who worked under Mr. Koenig; Ben Glisan, the former treasurer; and David W. Delainey, the former head of Enron Energy Services, the retail unit.

Mr. Petrocelli portrayed Mr. Skilling as a visionary who helped Enron transform itself into an energy-trading powerhouse. But he stressed that, for Mr. Skilling, the chief executive job was never a dream job and that Mr. Skilling never would have left the company had Mr. Skilling known that the company was in trouble.

Mr. Petrocelli said that Mr. Skilling would definitely take the stand in the trial, which is expected to last at least four months.

Mr. Ramsey portrayed Mr. Lay as a risk-taker who rose to be a civic leader and philanthropist who rubbed elbows with world leaders, including the family of President George H. W. Bush.

"Ken Lay did not try to kill his own child, which was Enron," Mr. Ramsey said. "The panic is what killed Enron."

Mr. Ramsey blamed articles in The Wall Street Journal about off-the-books partnerships controlled by Mr. Fastow, as well as short-sellers who Mr. Ramsey said were sources for the stories, for starting a panic on Oct. 22, 2001, that led to a sharp drop in Enron's stock price.

Mr. Ramsey said that Rebecca Smith, a reporter for The Journal, had hurt Enron by failing to listen to a conference call on Oct. 16, 2001, where Mr. Lay revealed a $1.2 billion equity reduction. The paper reported two days later that Enron had failed to disclose the reduction in its earnings press release. Paul Steiger, The Journal's managing editor, said the paper was "proud" of the work Ms. Smith and others at the paper did in "uncovering questionable accounting at Enron."

Mr. Ramsey said the only fraud committed at Enron was the minor thievery by Mr. Fastow, Mr. Glisan and former executive Michael Kopper, all of whom have pleaded guilty to carrying out schemes to help Enron manipulate its books while skimming millions for themselves.

Ultimately, Mr. Ramsey said, Enron was vulnerable because of the way wholesale trading dominated its profits by October of 2001. At the time 92 percent of Enron's quarterly profits, or $2.18 billion, came from energy trading, he said.
6 2006-02-01 Nine people were injured, at least four seriously, in an explosion at a chemical plant in Morganton. The explosion at the Synthron Inc. plant around 11:45 a.m. blew out windows in a nearby mobile home park, and residents within a half mile were wa...
7 2006-02-01 WASHINGTON, Jan. 31 - The Bush administration's nominee to be the nation's top mine safety regulator faced tough questioning on Tuesday at a Senate confirmation hearing that reflected competing visions of a proper oversight role.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the ranking Democrat on the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, suggested that the nominee, Richard M. Stickler, might be too cozy with the mine industry to move the Mine Safety and Health Administration, which he would head, toward stiffer enforcement.

"Mr. Stickler's history is long on coal production experience but short on ensuring worker safety," said Mr. Kennedy, referring to the nominee's three decades of management experience in the industry. The senator added that an aggressive leader was needed to prevent tragedies like the two accidents that killed 14 miners in West Virginia in January, and said, "I'm concerned that Mr. Stickler may not be that person."

But Mr. Stickler, who worked for BethEnergy Mines of Amity, Pa., for 30 years before heading the Pennsylvania Bureau of Deep Mine Safety from 1997 to 2003, said, "I believe I have the background and experience to do this job."

"I have been an underground miner," he said, adding, "I know what it feels like to lose men in tragic mine accidents."
8 2006-02-01 But Mr. Smith said that issue and other recent events had led the company to take "a thoughtful step back."

"We have now, I think, a principled grounding for us to work with MSN Spaces and blogs," Mr. Smith said in a phone call from Lisbon. He added that given the field of other Internet technologies expanding into the global marketplace, "we may need to complement those principles with specific additions for those particular technologies."

"This is not a single-country or a single-company issue," Mr. Smith said.

The Microsoft announcement comes just a week after Google said that it would enter the Chinese market with an altered version of its search engine that filters words and subjects deemed inappropriate by government censors. And there has been growing concern in the last year over how far American technology companies appear willing to bend to demands by the Chinese government to gain access to its booming market.

The Congressional Human Rights Caucus, co-chaired by Representative Tom Lantos, Democrat of California, and Representative Frank R. Wolf, Republican of Virginia, will hold a hearing on the issue this afternoon. Representatives from Google, Microsoft, Yahoo and Cisco all declined invitations to attend.

The House subcommittee on Global Human Rights has also scheduled a hearing for Feb. 15, and has invited all four companies to testify.

The committee, unlike the caucus, has subpoena power. "It's certainly an option," said Brad Dayspring, a spokesman for Representative Chris Smith, Republican from New Jersey and the chairman of the subcommittee. "At this point it's not part of the discussions."

None of the four companies has yet agreed to give official testimony before the committee, Mr. Dayspring said.

On his MSN Spaces blog, Mr. Zhao, the blogger whose site was taken down late last year, had made comments about a recent newspaper strike that the Chinese government deemed inappropriate. Chinese authorities called an MSN Spaces affiliate in Shanghai, and after a short consultation with executives in Seattle, Mr. Zhao's site went dark across the globe.

Mr. Smith said that the legal process was valid and would be followed similarly under the new guidelines. But, he said, using technology the company has been working on "over the last several weeks," Web surfers seeking to read blogs on MSN Spaces servers -- which are located in the United States -- will be granted or denied access based on their geographic location.

Had this system been in place after the government's takedown request last December, surfers in China would not have been able to view Mr. Zhao's blog, but it would have remained viewable in other countries. Mr. Zhao, however, would no longer have access to or be able to update the site.

He would see only a message that his site had been terminated by government request.

"One of the things we've looked at is, How far does a government's jurisdiction reach?" Mr. Smith said. "In most countries, a government has jurisdiction over the flow of information to its users, but no country has legal jurisdiction over the flow of information to users over the rest of the world."

The guidelines were praised at the Lisbon conference by Mary Robinson, the former United Nations high commissioner for human rights, who said they were "deeply significant."

But Julien Pain, head of the Internet desk at Reporters Without Borders, a Paris-based press freedom group that has been monitoring Internet censorship and the imprisonment of bloggers in China called the development an "illusory victory."

"There's a good side and a bad side," Mr. Pain said. "It's clear that they've begun thinking about their ethical responsibility. But it also shows that they accept censorship, and that they believe in this new form of the Internet, in which the rights of users will vary according to their geographic origin."

This, he said, "is in direct contradiction with the original idea of what the Internet was supposed to be -- something with no barriers, no boundaries."
9 2006-02-01 About 7,000 of the families displaced by Hurricane Katrina and living in hotels at federal expense missed a Monday deadline to continue the benefit. Because of that, as of next week, they will no longer be eligible for free rooms as the government...
10 2006-02-01 CHICAGO, Jan. 31 - United Airlines is expected to end its 38-month stay in bankruptcy proceedings on Wednesday, but the carrier may not be profitable this year because of a recent surge in fuel prices.

Many of United's 57,000 workers, meanwhile, though relieved to be ending their stay in bankruptcy, are wary of management's plans to continue to streamline the carrier. Still somewhat untested, union representatives say, are work rule changes negotiated as part of the bankruptcy and just how much more employees can be asked to do.

The UAL Corporation, the parent company of United, exits bankruptcy having acknowledged that, for 2006 at least, fuel will probably cost it a lot more than it earlier projected. The company now expects to spend about $4.3 billion on fuel this year, instead of the $3.4 billion earlier estimated, according to a statement released last week.

That could wipe out most if not all of the profit, before one-time gains, UAL had been expecting for the year. The company said it expected to offset "some, but not all" of the increased fuel expense through higher revenue.

The fuel issue -- oil trading above $60 a barrel instead of the $50 United had hoped for -- is likely to be just the first of many challenges the carrier will face post-bankruptcy. United has cut employment by roughly a quarter. It expects by 2010 to have its annual costs $7 billion below pre-bankruptcy levels. And it was able to wipe out $13 billion of debt and pension obligations. But its prospects are no more assured than those of other carriers.
11 2006-02-01 Mr. Barth said during a conference call with analysts after its earnings announcement that Johnson Controls was negotiating to manage the higher costs. "We just have to get our arms around these commodity increases and deal with them in the context of broader discussions both with our suppliers as well as our customers," he said.

Johnson Controls is also putting the final touches on the integration of York International, the heating and cooling business it purchased in December. While the Bristol Compressors unit of York lost $1.9 million in the quarter and is now on the auction block, Mr. Barth is bullish on the acquisition. "We are still very excited about what this means to the future of our company and of our building efficiency group," he said in the call.

Johnson's expansion in building controls and retail car battery sales has reduced its dependence on auto parts. Last year, only half its profits came from vehicle interiors. It now earns about a quarter of its income from selling car batteries to retail stores like Sears and another quarter from its controls business, which supplies industrial heating, cooling and security systems.

Such diversification is rare among auto suppliers. Lear, Johnson's main competitor in automotive interiors, makes only automotive products; it lost $1.38 billion last year. Dana, which last year was the worst performer in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, earns 85 percent of its revenue from automotive products.

Delphi set off the largest bankruptcy case in automotive history when it filed for Chapter 11 protection in October. It earns 92 percent of its revenue from sales of auto parts. The remaining 8 percent comes from products like satellite radio components and medical supplies.

F. Timothy Richards, Delphi's vice president for sales and marketing, said the company planned to expand its nonautomotive business by half over the next two years because that is where the best chance to make money is right now.

"The auto industry is very competitive, and it offers us a lot of profit opportunities," he said. "But it doesn't have the same growth opportunities that some other industries do."

Brian Johnson, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, said the difference between a successful auto supplier like Johnson and an unsuccessful one was diversification. "The auto industry is a relatively unattractive place to allocate capital," he said. "So the bottom line is, if you're running a business that can span two or three industrial sectors, there are more attractive sectors to be in."

Johnson hopes to increase its profit outside the interiors business even more. Last year it bought Delphi's car battery business, and profits in that segment grew by 35 percent in the last three months of 2005 compared with the period a year earlier.

Mr. Barth said that in two years, building controls would represent half of Johnson's profit, while car interiors would account for 30 percent and batteries 20 percent.

"It goes back to growth," he said. "Everyone is faced with the same pressures relative to price and commodities costs, so you have to find a way to get comfortable and find a sweet spot in that."

In auto interiors, Johnson has stayed profitable by steadily expanding its business with foreign automakers like Toyota, Honda and Hyundai. In that way, Johnson can better insulate itself from the sales lags that are crippling General Motors and Ford, and in turn most of the auto supply business. As G.M.'s and Ford's sales have declined, they have pressed their suppliers to sell auto parts at lower rates.

"It gives them the backbone to walk away from business with the Big Three if the business is not appropriately priced," said Mr. Johnson of Sanford C. Bernstein. "It makes them less desperate."

Johnson sells about 60 percent of its auto parts to G.M., Ford and DaimlerChrysler, and the remaining 40 percent to foreign manufacturers. But sales to foreign automakers have increased over the last year while business with domestic manufacturers has declined.

Mr. Barth explained, "We're growing with the customers that are growing."
12 2006-02-01 Endesha Ida Mae Holland, a noted scholar and dramatist whose best-known play, "From the Mississippi Delta," chronicled her journey from poverty and prostitution in the Jim Crow South to civil rights activism, a Ph.D. and an academic career, died on Jan. 25 at nursing home in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 61.

The cause was complications of ataxia, a degenerative neurological condition, according to the University of Southern California, where she was an emeritus professor of theater. Professor Holland, who retired from U.S.C. in 2003, previously taught in the American studies department at the State University of New York, Buffalo.

Partly financed by Oprah Winfrey, the Off Broadway production of "From the Mississippi Delta" opened in 1991 at the Circle in the Square Downtown. Directed by Jonathan Wilson, it starred Cheryl Lynn Bruce, Sybil Walker and Jacqueline Williams in the principal role, which depicted the author at various stages of her life.

Though it ran for 218 performances, the production received a mixed reception from critics. Few, however, disputed the hypnotic pull of Professor Holland's story. Ida Mae Holland -- she added Endesha as an adult -- was born on Aug. 29, 1944, in the Delta town of Greenwood, Miss. She was reared along with several siblings in a wooden shack, its walls plastered with newspapers. She never knew her father; her mother, an esteemed rural midwife, sometimes took in local prostitutes as boarders to make ends meet.

When Ida Mae was 11, in an incident she often recounted afterward, she was raped by a white man who employed her as a baby sitter. When it was over, he handed her $5.
13 2006-02-01 Mellon Financial named a top Wachovia banker its chief executive yesterday, ending months of criticism from activist investors who called for a change in leadership and strategy.

Robert P. Kelly, Wachovia's chief financial officer, will become Mellon's chairman and chief executive on Feb. 13. He will succeed Martin G. McGuinn, who reshaped the company from a slow-growing regional bank to an asset management giant.

In September, Mr. McGuinn, 63, said he would be ready to retire as soon as a successor could be found, because the right business mix and management team were in place. But pressure from several large investors who were disappointed with the company's financial performance may have hastened his departure. So may have criticism from analysts, who made a parlor game out of how to slice, dice and sell Mellon or its parts.

"Bob Kelly has a proven track record and will hit the ground running," Mr. McGuinn said in a statement. "As such there is no need for a transition process."

In Mr. Kelly, 51, Mellon gets a seasoned banker who led Wachovia, which is based in Charlotte, N.C., through a series of big acquisitions. In an interview yesterday, he said he did not expect a major shakeup.
14 2006-02-01 Short of "stand away from the platform edge," there are no hard-and-fast official guidelines to survive an oncoming New York City subway train. "There really is no one thing we can tell people that would work in every situation," said Paul Fleuranges, a spokesman for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.

Depending on the station, one can seek refuge from an oncoming train in a few ways. None are foolproof.

A police detective with experience in the transit bureau recalled his training in last-ditch methods for surviving an oncoming train.

"They told us, 'Get to the cutouts or be able to roll underneath the platform,' " he said, referring to niches cut into the subway tunnels and the space under some platforms themselves, where homeless people have been known to sleep.

A quick-thinking person may also find safety beneath the train, in the so-called trough between the tracks, which offers up to two feet of space below a train.

In 2003, a researcher for an Internet brokerage firm, Brandon Crismon, was pushed into the path of an oncoming No. 5 train at the Union Square station. He scrambled into the trough and lay flat, in what his half brother described as "kung-fu mode."

The train stopped after two cars had passed over Mr. Crismon. He suffered a broken leg, cuts and bruises. He was lucky: The depths of troughs vary, Mr. Fleuranges said.
15 2006-02-01 BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., Jan. 31 - More than a month before the Oscar winners are announced, there is already one clear group of victors: the independent production companies and specialty divisions seem likely to grab the industry's most coveted hardware. Movies like "Brokeback Mountain," "Capote," "Good Night, and Good Luck" and "Crash" all of which received nominations today for best picture, were substantially produced outside the studio system. Financing was often cobbled together from a variety of sources, and people involved in the films wore many hats.

But the ad-hoc nature of moviemaking on the margins can lead to some hurt feelings or worse, and the situation is now compounded by growing fussiness about credits among those who grant awards, including the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.

"Crash," which had six listed producers, has only two who are eligible under new rules. Bob Yari, a producer who worked on the film, has already sued his former production partner over the credits issue and is contemplating suing the Producers Guild of America, which this year took the hot potato of assigning credit off the hands of the academy by making eligibility determinations that the Oscars will honor.

The producers guild has instituted an auditing process that involves the measurement of 46 different tasks to decide whether a producer deserves credit come Oscar time, an attempt to clarify such so-called parenting issues. The nominations announced here at the headquarters of the academy are the mother's milk of the industry -- in a business that is awash in money and privilege, an Oscar is the one thing that cannot be bought. And by limiting the number of people eligible for a statue, the guild is trying to walk back the cat, effectively telling people that simply finding financing or helping close a deal does not make someone a primary producer.

"The Oscars give us a way for us to address this issue," said Vance Van Petten, executive director of the producers guild. "The challenge here is that we need to get some clarity. The process of credits just being handed out demeans the credit of people who actually did the work."
16 2006-02-01 Google's Shares Plummet After Earnings Report Disappoints a Market Looking for More Growth  After astounding investors with its incredible growth in its first year and a half as a public company, Google learned the perils yesterday of high expecta...
17 2006-02-01 The findings are among those in a series of articles to be published today in two medical journals -- the Journal of the American College of Cardiology, and Circulation -- exploring the differences in heart disease between men and women. The subject has drawn increasing interest in recent decades, as scientists began to realize that the results of previous studies, done mostly in men, did not always apply to women.

Among the differences already known are that women with heart disease tend to be sicker than men by the time it is diagnosed, to benefit less from bypass surgery and to have more severe symptoms when they develop heart failure. Some of the difference is because women are older and frailer when they develop heart disease, but that does not account for all of it.

Symptoms of heart attack also tend to differ. Men report crushing pain in the chest, while women are more likely to feel dizzy, sick, short of breath and sweaty.

Heart disease, strokes and other cardiovascular diseases are the leading causes of death in the United States and other developed countries. They killed 910,600 people in the United States in 2003, the most recent year for which data are available; more than half the deaths, 484,000, were among women.

Although women's risk is greatest after menopause and increases with age, heart disease is the No. 1 cause of death in all women older than 25. Overall death rates from coronary disease have declined in the past few decades, but most of the improvements have been in men's rates.

The cause of the hidden disease being described today is a diffuse buildup of fatty deposits inside the walls of the coronary arteries and in the very small arteries in the heart. The deposits, or plaques, do not show up as blockages on X-rays, but they still interfere with blood flow and can damage the heart muscle, causing ischemic heart disease. ("Ischemia" means "inadequate blood flow.")

But often the condition is not recognized, and the women are told they have nothing to worry about. Instead, Dr. Sopko said, they should be treated aggressively for other problems that lead to artery disease like high cholesterol, high blood pressure and diabetes. If necessary, he added, they should also be advised to quit smoking, lose weight and exercise more.

The researchers report that compared to a nonsmoker, a woman who smokes has a risk of dying from heart disease equal to the risk she would have if she weighed 90 pounds more than the nonsmoker.

"To women as patients, the message is, look, if you have symptoms, don't think because you are a woman you are immune to having a heart problem," Dr. Sopko said.

The findings are based on a government-sponsored study called Wise, for Women's Ischemia Syndrome Evaluation. Begun in 1996, it included 936 women who had symptoms that led doctors to order angiograms. The women's average age was about 58, but a quarter were young enough to be premenopausal.

Despite their symptoms, only a third of the group had obvious blockages in their coronary arteries. In a similar group of men, three-quarters or more would have a severe blockage, said Dr. Carl J. Pepine, the chief of cardiovascular medicine at the University of Florida in Gainesville and one of the lead investigators in the Wise study.

In the remaining two-thirds of the women -- that is, those without blockages -- more than half had abnormalities in their arteries, like an inability to dilate when needed, that could cause ischemia, Dr. Pepine said. The abnormalities occurred in both the coronary arteries and smaller ones that feed the heart, a network of tiny vessels called the microvasculature.

Tests showed that the artery walls were full of plaque but had grown outward to accommodate it, so that the opening appeared normal. But, eventually, the condition may progress enough to start pinching the artery shut, Dr. Pepine said.

After four years, the rate of deaths or heart attacks in the group without blockages was 10 percent.

"That's much too high for somebody with a normal coronary angiogram," Dr. Pepine said.

It is not clear why women seem more prone to the hidden vascular disease, the researchers said, though it may be linked to hormonal imbalances and a greater tendency to suffer from inflammation, which plays a role in artery disease.
18 2006-02-02 New shows in New York include "Bridge & Tunnel" and "25 Questions for a Jewish Mother."...
19 2006-02-02 Responding to President Bush's call in the State of the Union to ban "human-animal hybrids," biologiest P.Z. Myers defends the creation of chimeras as "legitimate and useful scientific research," such as when scientists insert human genes into mic...
20 2006-02-02 "I think you're going to have to speak to the people who would give political and financial support," Ms. Pirro said, adding later that some donors who did not support her for Senate were now contributing to her candidacy for attorney general.

Asked what went wrong in the Senate race, Ms. Pirro said, "You know I'm looking forward right now." Pressed on whether she did anything wrong in her former race, she added: "The support was not there. I made the decision to run for attorney general. It's my strong suit. It's my passion. Being the people's lawyer is an opportunity to be able to level the playing field for all of the victims that I've dealt with — victims of physical injury, economic injury, the environment."

Over and over in the conversation at her White Plains campaign office, which is adorned with photos, news articles, plaques and other tributes, Ms. Pirro steered the conversation to her respected record as a prosecutor in Westchester. Told that some political analysts say her success will depend partly on putting old demons to rest, she said she wants her tactics to be full steam ahead.

To be sure, Ms. Pirro is brimming with gusto about the race to succeed Eliot Spitzer. She recalled fighting for a state hate-crimes law, aid for battered women and protections for abused children, and said the kind of passion she showed in those efforts was needed in Albany. She pledged to police Medicaid fraud, crack down on methamphetamine labs, and push for new felony penalties for various kinds of human trafficking.

Ms. Pirro showed a lighthearted side, too, making hummus for the interview and autographing a photo of her and a reporter. But it was her self-control, after the unsteady performance in the Senate race, that particularly stood out when she was asked about that campaign and two other issues that might pose obstacles in the 2006 race: Opposition from past allies like former Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato who say her political image is sullied, and the challenge of seeking the top law enforcement job when her husband, Albert, is a convicted tax felon whose business dealings have struck some Westchester voters as shady.

Mr. D'Amato's criticism seemed easier for her to dispatch.

"Is he still around?" she said of Mr. D'Amato, with a slightly mischievous grin.

Her marriage may matter more to voters in the attorney general's race than the Senate contest, because her husband's problems were with the law. She said his role in the campaign would be limited to supporting her at home.

"I am a strong, independent, self-made woman," she said. "I worked my way through college and law school. I started in a dairy at the age of 14, O.K.? Everything I have achieved, I have achieved based on hard work and results."

Mr. Pirro's conviction was based on fraudulent tax forms that she also signed, and her vow that she was kept in the dark became a credibility issue in her re-election bid in 2001, which she won narrowly. Ms. Pirro said she had faith that voters would accept that she did nothing wrong.

Referring to the period when she signed the tax forms, she said, "I was focused on my job — I can tell you any case in my office — and my kids."

She avoiding saying whether she had discussed any of her Westchester cases with her husband, a lawyer and lobbyist, as some reputed mob associates have alleged. (She added that the allegations were "Hogwash! Hogwash!") Asked if she would discuss cases before the attorney general's office with her husband if she is elected, Ms. Pirro said only that she would discuss cases with lawyers on her staff.

Asked for her judgment about an attorney general discussing cases with a convicted felon, she said: "This is 2005, not 1955. That means I stand on my two feet. I didn't get here because of someone else." (Later she corrected herself on the date.)

Whether New Yorkers beyond Westchester will favor Ms. Pirro, baggage and all, is impossible to predict. At one point in the interview, she was asked how she would deal with voters who were leery of her husband's much-publicized issues, from his tax conviction to the tabloid reports about a past business deal with an alleged mob associate and his out-of-wedlock child with a former mistress. She paused, and then replied in a hushed, tightened voice.

"Are you responsible for what your family does? Do you have a sister, a brother, a mother, a father? I don't judge you based on that," she said.

Political analysts, drawing on recent public opinion polls, said Ms. Pirro is the favorite for the Republican nomination right now, yet her unfavorability ratings have been rising and she trails some Democratic candidates in general election matchups. Yet polls also show that despite negative publicity, many voters have no opinion of her.

"She's hoping that time heals all wounds, but some of her issues are going to be a tough sell to voters," said Lee M. Miringoff, director of the Marist College Institute for Public Opinion. "She needs to deal with problems now and not be fielding questions before the September primary or the November election."
21 2006-02-02 BANGALORE, India, Feb. 1 - Thousands of airport workers went on strike across India on Wednesday in an attempt to halt the government's plan to privatize the country's two busiest airports, in Mumbai and New Delhi.

Despite the work stoppage, flights took off and landed on schedule at most airports as air traffic controllers reported to work; only in Calcutta did service at the airport come to a halt, news agencies reported. Most of the striking workers across the country, employees of the government's Airports Authority of India, serve as cleaners and administrators.

In Mumbai, workers stormed the airport's main entrance shouting slogans against the government and police beat the protesters back with batons. Workers also blockaded the entrance of the New Delhi airport. In Bangalore and Madras, there was no disruption of airport services.

Union leaders were quoted by news agencies as saying the strike would continue until the government gave up its plan to privatize the airports. The leaders said 90 percent of the airport employees were participating in the strike.

The strike was called as the government announced Tuesday that two private groups had won bids to renovate the Mumbai and Delhi airports to bring them up to global standards.
22 2006-02-02 The cameras that first made Nikon famous were broad copies of products from the German company now known as Carl Zeiss. So it is perhaps fitting that Nikon's decision last month to discontinue manual focus lenses was followed by an announcement from Zeiss that it was entering the business of making traditional-style lenses for Nikon digital and film cameras.

While Zeiss largely abandoned making cameras long ago, it still supplies or designs lenses for many camera makers today, including Sony. Its new ZF series for Nikons, Zeiss said, will draw on the technologies used in the lenses it also makes for the motion picture industry.

The new lenses will fit every Nikon single lens reflex camera ever made as well as some other compatible brands. But like Nikon's own manual lenses, the ZF line cannot connect to light meters on some current models.

Zeiss will gradually roll out the lenses, starting with a 50 millimeter f1.4 model, probably at the end of next month. To keep prices down, Zeiss has contracted out the new line's manufacturing to Cosina, one of Nikon's suppliers in Japan.
23 2006-02-02 In a new legal maneuver, the Mexican media company Grupo Televisa is looking for a way to break its programming deal with the American Spanish-language broadcaster Univision. As part of a lawsuit seeking back royalties from Univision, Televisa sai...
24 2006-02-02 BCE, the parent company of Bell Canada, will shed 4,000 jobs and spin off its satellite and rural telephone operations. The company, based in Montreal, which also plans a share buyback, made the announcements yesterday after reducing its profit ou...
25 2006-02-02 Yoonew, a company based in Baltimore, was founded by two students from the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Gerry Wilson and Hagos Mehreteab, in 2004. Although Yoonew does not possess tickets to games initially, it purchases them with the proceeds from futures contracts and reserve funds, if necessary.

The company nearly failed after the Final Four college basketball tournament last year amid soaring ticket prices caused by increased demand from universities that qualified for the Final Four that were near the site of the games, and decreased supply because some coaches were caught scalping tickets.

Realizing that his company's future depended on its ability to deliver the promised tickets, Mr. Wilson liquidated his 401(k) to spend $35,000 on tickets. An investor has since poured $2 million into the start-up, shoring up its finances for now.

Mr. Wilson said that Yoonew's futures contracts do not run afoul of antiscalping laws because they are contracts for tickets, not tickets themselves, and because the contract price is typically below the face value of the ticket ($400 or $600 for this year's Super Bowl).

The relatively low price of futures contracts gives moderate-income fans a chance to attend marquee sporting events, which is a welcome counterbalance to the many corporations and lobbyists that often snap up tickets.

Last season, Yoonew posted a futures price for each team daily. Mr. Wilson said the price depended on the probability of a team's reaching the Super Bowl, the market value of tickets, stadium capacity and other factors.

Yoonew plans soon to provide an online trading platform, like Ameritrade, where people can buy and sell futures tickets at market-determined prices.

Analyzing data from last season, I found that the weekly gambling odds from SportingbetUSA explained 96 percent of the variability in Yoonew's futures prices, implying that futures can mainly hedge the uncertainty of a purchaser's team making it to the Super Bowl.

If fans are risk-averse, then ticket futures add economic value. To see this, suppose that there is a 10 percent chance of a fan's team reaching the Super Bowl and that a futures contract costs $250 while a ticket could be purchased the week of the game for $2,500. At these terms, a risk-loving fan intent on going to the Super Bowl if his team plays would wait to buy a ticket for $2,500, and a risk-averse fan would buy a futures contract for $250.

Indeed, a risk-averse fan would be willing to pay more than $250 for a futures contract in this situation. Like an insurance policy, ticket futures sell at a premium over their expected value because they help risk-averse buyers hedge against uncertainty.

To gauge the size of the premium, note that a fan could guarantee a ticket to the Super Bowl by buying a futures contract for every team in a conference; one is bound to make it. Call this expenditure the sure-thing price of a ticket. If fans were risk-neutral, the sure-thing price would equal the price that tickets are expected to cost at game time -- say $2,500 this year. The excess of the sure-thing price over $2,500 gives a rough indication of the market valuation of insuring against risk.

The futures appear to have been priced reasonably. The premium for a sure-thing ticket from Yoonew ranged from about 35 percent to 60 percent during the season, not far from the markup in some lines of insurance. Interestingly, the premium fell sharply as the playoffs advanced, perhaps because fans overestimated their teams' chances during the season.

The emerging market for futures tickets remains thin, however, as indicated by the large gap between buy and sell prices for the Final Four and next year's Super Bowl posted on TheTicketReserve.com.

To survive, the futures market will require an influx of customers.

Mr. Kocott, who is giving some of his 18 Super Bowl XL tickets to the Make-A-Wish Foundation, will do his part to spread the word. He called Yoonew's ticket futures "long overdue" and "one of the most ingenious ideas I have ever seen." He expects to buy futures for the Final Four and next year's Super Bowl.

When asked if he would consider buying a futures contract next year, Mr. McKinley, who scrambled to buy a Super Bowl ticket this week, said, "Perhaps, after verifying that the company can actually get the seats that would be part of the futures contract."

Establishing a reputation for dependability is a prerequisite for a futures market in tickets to succeed. The sports leagues could help by distributing some tickets to fans through the futures market.

ECONOMIC SCENE Alan B. Krueger is the Bendheim professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University. His Web site is www.krueger.princeton.edu.
26 2006-02-02 In the more utopian view of the shift, the breadth of songs available online and the ease of purchasing them will prompt more consumers to buy more music than ever. With the unlimited "shelf space," record companies will be able to market everything in their archives at minimal expense, breathing new life into obscure or out-of-print material and generating new profits.

But critics warn that the industry may be in for a long wait, and significant financial hardship, before realizing that dream -- particularly as sales of CD's decline.

Album sales have dropped for four of the last five years, and while sales of digital singles are booming, that has not yet been enough to offset the drop. Music companies sold more than 350 million singles last year, a jump of 150 percent over the previous year's total. Sales of full digital albums increased even more, rising more than 190 percent to 16.2 million.

Sales of older releases, known in the music business as catalog, account for a huge share of the industry's fledgling online business. Executives at the major record companies say catalog material makes up somewhere between half and two-thirds of their sales of digital singles. (Catalog accounted for about 37 percent of CD sales last year, according to Nielsen SoundScan.)

The pivotal question now is whether the boom in catalog music online constitutes primarily a new market or a drain on an old one: CD sales. Most record executives think it is some of both, and say it is too early to measure the effect on their bottom lines.

What is clear is that the "unbundling" of albums -- allowing each song to be sold individually -- is allowing fans to determine exactly which hits are the greatest, and to distill even an iconic artist's repertory to a few songs.

"Even bands with deep catalogs have hits, and then they have superstar hits," said Eric Garland, chief executive of BigChampagne, a research firm that monitors activity on file-trading networks. "There may be 20 songs from Queen that people know, but really we're talking about two or three that are more popular by orders of magnitude. They're cultural staples. If I had the option to buy 9 songs instead of 12 songs on 'Meet the Beatles,' I might have done that."

Uncertainty about such piecemeal purchases is one reason some artists whose classic albums or hits compilations enjoy steady sales have so far either declined to sell their music online (Bob Seger) or sell it only in album form, with no single-song downloads allowed (AC/DC).

The music companies have also developed a way to hedge their bets: many executives these days are buzzing about "bundles," collections of tracks that may entice fans to return to buying more than one song at a time. Rhino Entertainment, the catalog division of the Warner Music Group, last year created the Hi-Five, a five-song pack of songs from a single artist that typically sells for $3.96 on iTunes.

"There are lots of newbies out there, people who don't know of any of these bands, and they could easily buy one song," said David Dorn, senior vice president of new-media strategy at Rhino. "What keeps me up at night is, how do I get you to see that, with the Ramones, you shouldn't just buy 'Blitzkrieg Bop' and be done with it?"

In many instances, however, record executives say online sales do not appear to be hurting their best sellers.

Consider the case of Queen, whose 1992 "Greatest Hits" CD has become an evergreen seller. The band's song "Bohemian Rhapsody" has sold more than 301,000 copies online; "We Will Rock You" has sold more than 202,000. Both routinely rank among the 200 best-selling digital singles. But even if some fans are buying both songs -- suggesting that they might be interested in the complete hits collection -- their online purchases do not appear to be cutting significantly into physical sales. The CD sold an estimated 435,000 copies last year, up about 9 percent from the year before even as the industry's overall album sales declined 7 percent.

Bob Cavallo, chairman of the Buena Vista Music Group, the Walt Disney Company division that markets Queen's catalog, said he had initially feared the effect of selling singles online. "But it seems like the young kids have to buy certain albums that are classic, core albums," he said.

Executives at Disney's Hollywood Records label say their research shows that about half of the consumers who bought Queen's most recent hits CD are boys under 18 -- an audience that is also well represented among iTunes customers.

In a recent week on the Rhapsody online music service, a variety of older acts had four or more songs among the 1,000 best-selling tracks, including the Eagles, the Rolling Stones and Guns N' Roses. But the same bands have enjoyed strong sales of their hits CD's. The Eagles' blockbuster "Greatest Hits 1971-1975," for example, sold 117,000 copies last year, up about 20 percent from the year before.

Tim Quirk, executive editor of Rhapsody's music service, said he believed the bulk of these sales were coming from fans who would not have sprung for a hits CD. "If they can plunk down a buck for one song, they're going to do it," he said.

That sentiment is shared by artists like Jim Peterik, the former guitarist and keyboardist for Survivor and one of the writers of "Eye of the Tiger" -- which, in addition to its online sales, has sold an estimated 200,000 ring tones. The song is available on at least five different albums in the marketplace; collectively they sold about 90,000 copies last year.

Mr. Peterik said he had been delighted by the song's success online. But he said such sales can "coexist" with continued sales of full albums. Those buying the song "are not fans of Survivor," he said. "They're fans of 'Eye of the Tiger.' "
27 2006-02-02 Criminal and Civil Charges Expected to Be Filed Against Executives of Two Insurance Concerns  The Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission are expected to announce criminal and civil fraud charges today against three former to...
28 2006-02-03 An article by federal judge Richard Posner in the New Republic about the National Security Agency wiretapping scandal - which, by the way, really needs a shorthand name, preferably one that doesn't end in "-gate" - has prompted an online debate th...
29 2006-02-03 What makes for a successful real-estate agent? Basic arithmetic skills, for one thing. Inman News (subscription only) had an odd article today about agent success. A recent study showed that, when it comes to motivation, successful agents are "uti...
30 2006-02-03 Jill Chaifetz, a lawyer who as the executive director of the nonprofit legal group Advocates for Children of New York turned it into a force for reform in the nation's largest school system, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 41.

The cause was ovarian cancer, her brother, Lawrence Chaifetz, said.

In 1998, Ms. Chaifetz joined Advocates for Children, which defends the legal rights of students in public education, and in her time there she quadrupled its staff and budget. One of its goals was the enforcement of standards for the city school system, with 1.1 million students, most of them living in poverty. She sought to empower families who were otherwise without legal resources.

Advocates for Children, which is based in Manhattan, produced many policy papers and reports under Ms. Chaifetz's direction and provided free legal help to students who claimed they were being denied proper educations and services.

In 2003, in one of their most important cases, Ms. Chaifetz and Advocates for Children filed lawsuits against three city high schools, charging that they illegally discharged or turned away students because of their ages, poor grades, poor attendance or pregnancy. Ms. Chaifetz said that the schools had been pushing out many struggling students in reaction to new state standards that judged schools on what percentage of students passed state exams needed to graduate.

After months of skirmishing, the city settled the suits in 2004 and agreed to take back students who had been discharged.
31 2006-02-03 And Goldman's rivals have been busy. Morgan Stanley is one of the top contenders for the investment banking crown in Russia this year, after being named a lead adviser on the Rosneft initial public offering. In October, Morgan Stanley opened a full-service investment banking subsidiary in Moscow, in a ceremony attended by the firm's chief executive, John J. Mack.

In contrast, the chief executive of Goldman, Henry M. Paulson Jr. did not visit Russia once last year, according to Goldman. The lagging performance in Russia is uncharacteristic of Goldman, which is a banking leader in most major markets in the world.

Still, Goldman is trying to bulk up in Russia. The firm plans to apply for a broker-dealer license in Russia and set up a full-service investment bank that trades stocks and issues research later this year.

Goldman executives acknowledge that they are not as strong in Russia as some of their competitors. But they say they are erring on the side of caution, and that they are in the process of increasing the bank's presence there.

"Until two years ago, our involvement in Russia was not as intensive as some other banks," said Carsten Kengeter, a managing director with Goldman Sachs in London. "But the firm has a strong pipeline of I.P.O.'s that will be coming to the market in the next few months."

Goldman plans to expand its own franchise in Russia, Mr. Kengeter said, rather than buying a stake in a local bank as some of its rivals have done. Last year, Goldman tried to buy Aton Capital Group, a Moscow-based bank, according to several executives in the industry. The deal fell apart because Goldman did not want to pay what Aton was asking, they said. Goldman declined to comment about Aton.

Goldman says that it has about the same number of bankers and other professionals chasing Russian business as its competitors have. But many of Goldman's people are based in London.

Goldman's low profile in Russia is partly because the company pulled out of Russia after the 1998 financial crisis when the ruble was devalued and markets around the world shuddered. Until recently, the firm did not move to re-establish a full-fledged operation in Moscow.

After the ruble crisis, Goldman "beat a hasty retreat," said Chris Weafer, chief strategist at Alfa-Bank in Moscow. "It's a case of once bitten, twice shy."

Of course, new markets can be risky, and many banks in the past have quickly increased their staffs in a particular fast-growing country only to retreat hastily when the economic cycle turned or a financial crisis ensued.

Goldman Sach's own strategists have said that Russia will be important in the long term. Jim O'Neill, head of global economic research for the bank, predicted last year that Brazil, Russia, India and China would be members of the Group of 7, the world's leading industrial powers, by 2050, replacing Britain, Germany, France and Italy.
32 2006-02-03 For now, Mr. Flood -- and Texas in general -- has many tools that New York lacks.

An investigation by The New York Times last year into the high costs and limited scrutiny of Medicaid in New York found that the work force at the State Department of Health that was devoted to fighting fraud, abuse and waste declined from more than 200 people in the 1980's to about 50, along with several dozen from private contractors. Mr. Flood's agency has more than 200.

The difference in staff is reflected in cases of suspected Medicaid fraud that state health officials found and referred to the states' attorneys general for prosecution -- 257 by Texas in 2004, and 37 by New York. Texas is also more aggressive about recovering money in civil court.

Mr. Flood can refer cases to the attorney general and to local district attorneys, but New York's district attorneys cannot prosecute Medicaid fraud.

Texas created the Office of Inspector General in 2003, consolidating under one roof people who had been spread among several agencies, gathering and analyzing data, auditing health care providers and investigating suspected abuses. Streamlining those operations and giving them new legal authority, Mr. Flood said, resulted in an immediate 30 percent increase in the amount of money recovered.

"You have to have a single point of control for the fraud-abuse issue," he said; otherwise, agencies interfere with each other.

Gov. George E. Pataki has proposed a similar consolidation in New York, which created a Medicaid inspector general's post last year. That office is not really functioning yet, but even under the governor's plans to give it money and a staff, it would have fewer people and legal powers than Mr. Flood's office has. The Republican majority in the State Senate is pressing for a much stronger inspector general and using the experience of other states -- notably Texas -- as ammunition.

In all, Mr. Flood's office claimed $441 million in recovered payments to doctors, pharmacists, hospitals, clinics and other health providers in its 2005 fiscal year, while New York reported $323 million in the 2004 fiscal year, the most recent for which figures are available. Officials caution that state-to-state comparisons can be imprecise because definitions vary, but as a percentage of overall Medicaid spending, Texas's recoveries more than tripled New York's.

Relatively little of that stems from people intentionally cheating the system: Mr. Flood's office reported recovering about $60 million from such people last year, in returned Medicaid payments and penalties. The comparable figure for New York was $50 million.

A much larger share of the money that states recoup results from finding another payer that is liable and must reimburse Medicaid -- a private insurer, or Medicare. For example, if a person is injured in a traffic collision and Medicaid pays the bills, the state can pursue the other driver's auto insurance to get back some of the money.

Such "third party" recoveries total more than $300 million a year in Texas, more than twice as much as in New York.
33 2006-02-03 One way songs survive is to prove themselves adaptable: to become widely heard through endless rearrangements and multiple genres. Another way is to be just the opposite: so personalized and obstinate that every performance becomes one more imitation of the song's originator.

Joni Mitchell has written both kinds of song, to judge by a tribute concert on Wednesday night at Carnegie Hall. It was a benefit that raised $130,000 for the Music for Youth Foundation, which supports music education. Ms. Mitchell, who has post-polio syndrome, was not there; a statement from her said she was home with "a very sick cat that needs medicine twice a day." But her open-tuned guitar chords, her vocal slides and her vibrato were emulated by half of the 23 acts on the bill.

The concert only hinted at Ms. Mitchell's eclecticism. Representing jazz was the ballad singer Little Jimmy Scott, who performed the standard "At Last" -- which Ms. Mitchell has recorded -- as a series of short, stabbing, utterly dramatic outbursts. Most of the lineup featured singer-songwriters playing acoustic guitar or piano.

Dar Williams, Amy Grant, Shawn Colvin, Sonya Kitchell (backed by Assembly of Dust), Joanne Shenandoah, and even male performers including Martin Sexton, Marc Cohn, Jesse Malin and Mark Oliver Everett (leading Eels) stayed close to Ms. Mitchell's versions of the songs they chose. It was a measure not only of how inseparable Ms. Mitchell's songs are from her performances of them, but also of how many songwriters have modeled themselves on her since the 1960's.

On the surface, Ms. Mitchell's lyrics have the candor and detail of a diary; behind them is a meticulous organization of ideas and images. Her music has grown ever more idiosyncratic. She began her career with the simple folk harmonies and symmetrical melodies of songs like "Both Sides Now," but went on to incorporate jazz harmonies and the spontaneous rushes and pauses of conversation in her phrasing. What seems improvisational in the first verse is clearly a structure when it returns.
34 2006-02-03 A court stripped former Prime Minister Mikhail M. Kasyanov, left, of a luxury cottage in Moscow that he purchased from the state in 2004, news agencies reported. Mr. Kasyanov, dismissed by President Vladimir V. Putin after the purchase, has emerge...
35 2006-02-03 An off-duty police officer was wounded in an exchange of fire with a gunman last night, the police said. The gunman appeared to have died at the scene, but the police did not confirm his death or release other details of the shooting. The officer,...
36 2006-02-03 UNITED NATIONS, Feb. 2 - United Nations negotiators circulated a draft resolution on Thursday for a Human Rights Council that would have standards for membership, means for timely interventions in crises and a year-round existence.

The proposed 45-member council is meant to replace the widely discredited 53-member Human Rights Commission, and its creation this month is seen as a critical test of whether the United Nations can adopt meaningful reform and redeem its scandal-tarnished reputation.

The commission is scheduled to begin its annual six weeks of sessions in Geneva on March 13, and diplomats believe the new council must gain General Assembly approval by Feb. 15 to be able to replace the existing body on time.

The commission has been a persistent embarrassment to the United Nations because membership has been open to countries like Cuba, Sudan and Zimbabwe, current members who are themselves accused of gross rights abuses.

In introducing his recommendation for the new council last March, Secretary General Kofi Annan said such countries sought participation on the panel to block examination of their own records, a practice he said "casts a shadow on the reputation of the United Nations as a whole."
37 2006-02-03 BRUSSELS, Feb. 2 - As the antitrust noose tightened around Microsoft in Europe, the company went on the offensive Thursday, accusing the European Commission of denying it access to documents it needs to defend itself.

The commission quickly denied that was the case, saying it was too soon in the process for Microsoft to be making such a claim. Microsoft has until Feb. 15 to respond to the commission's December statement that the company has not complied with a March 2004 antitrust ruling.

That ruling fined Microsoft 497 million euros (about $600 million at the time) and ordered it to change the way it does business in Europe. Microsoft paid the fine, but the commission says the company has still not provided enough information on its Windows operating system to allow makers of rival software to build products that work smoothly with Windows -- one of the main requirements of the 2004 ruling. If the company does not comply with the ruling, the commission can fine Microsoft up to 2 million euros a day.

In a letter to the commission dated Monday that was leaked to the press, Microsoft accused the European antitrust regulator of "seriously prejudicing Microsoft's right of defense."

Microsoft wants to see the correspondence between the commission and the external advisers who prepared a report on Microsoft's compliance with the 2004 ruling. The letters, the company says, will help it understand how the commission reached its conclusions. "It's a basic question of fairness and transparency," Mr. Brookes said.

But the European Commission dismissed Microsoft's complaint, saying it was too early to accuse the regulator of failing to disclose relevant documents in the case.
38 2006-02-03 That obviously makes accessory makers happy. It thrills retailers, whose profit margin on the accessories is much higher than on an iPod. And it delights Apple because the racks of add-ons made just for the iPod -- 2,000 different items at last count -- send a strong statement to consumers that the Apple player is far cooler than a Creative or Toshiba player, for which there are few accessories.

Sales of all those cases, car rechargers and docking stations totaled $850 million last year, Mr. Baker said, and that is not even counting Internet sales. Sales will easily soar well beyond $1 billion this year.

"Most of us were caught a little bit by surprise by the growth trajectory," admitted Rob Humphrey, director of marketing for Kensington, a maker of computer peripherals and now one of the biggest makers of iPod accessories. The accessories now account for about 20 percent of Kensington's total sales.

An entire ecosystem has emerged around the music player, introduced by Apple in October 2001. Other manufacturers had produced MP3 players earlier. But the simple design of the iPod, plus Apple's iTunes store, quickly helped Apple to dominate the market. And that simple design -- some might even call it bland -- encouraged people to personalize the machine.

There are now more than twice as many iPod accessories as there were just last summer, according to Apple. And that number does not include the docking stations that will be available in 40 percent of cars sold in the United States this year.

About 28 percent of all accessories are cases. You can find microfiber sleeves or neoprene iPod cases made by dozens of start-ups for $10 or $20 or a $200 python-skin case made by Coach, the maker of stylish leather handbags. About 30 percent of sales are for car chargers or transmitters and the remainder are speakers and docking stations.

But the forest of products includes a baby stroller from Kolcraft with a slot for an iPod, and a belt called the TuneBuckle with an iPod holder as the buckle. For sheer extravagance, Hammacher Schlemmer lives up to its reputation for selling the ridiculously expensive in its catalogs with the $4,000 Triode-Tube iPod speakers with old-fashioned vacuum tubes that glow through see-through panels. The Sharper Image catalog has a $700 iJoy massage chair with an iPod holder in the armrest.

The iBoom is a white boom box that Digital Lifestyle Outfitters is selling for $150. At the Consumer Electronics Show in January in Las Vegas, a company showed a prototype of a black and yellow boom box, the size of a work site gasoline-powered generator, for the tiny iPod.

Apple could not be happier about this exploding iPod economy. "For us it's great because the decision to buy an iPod is reinforced when consumers see all the accessories," said Greg Joswiak, Apple's vice president for worldwide iPod marketing.

Mr. Humphrey of Kensington, which makes about a dozen iPod accessories, called the accessory market "a real phenomenon," adding, "I've never seen anything like it in my career."

Few have. Rarely does one product foster such a sizable industry around it. Many of the iPod accessory makers, like Belkin, Kensington or Logitech, cut their teeth making accessories for personal computers. But no one product, not even the Macintosh, created the kind of accessory mania that the iPod has.

Some creations, like Mickey Mouse for Disney or Barbie dolls for Mattel, created an enormous market for accessories, but most of those items, like the Mickey Mouse watch or the Barbie Dream House, were licensed or made by the same company that created the original product. In contrast, Apple has encouraged a free-for-all, and its own share of the accessories market remains small.

That will change. Apple is aware of the power of this market and is getting more active. Indeed, at the recent Macworld conference, Apple demonstrated that it wanted more of this lucrative field. It made a splash with an attachment, the $50 Radio Remote, that plays FM radio through the iPod. Meanwhile, Kensington, with a new device that transmitted music from an iPod to an FM radio and also received FM broadcasts, was overshadowed.

Until recently, Apple's add-ons have been low-impact items like colorful cloth sleeves, which it calls socks, for the iPods. "We've chosen to participate in the market, not overwhelm it," Mr. Joswiak said.

By standardizing the 30-pin electronic connection on all of its models, Apple allows companies that stick with its standards the right to use an official "Made for iPod" logo. In return, Apple gets a royalty for the logo's use.

However, Apple, always tight-lipped, does not give much else to the accessory makers. "We may get a day's notice even with our strong relationship with Apple," Mr. Humphrey said. "In a meeting you might get a hint that something is gong to happen, but you don't know what. You occasionally get a, 'I don't think you want to go in that direction,' but you never know why they say that."

It could be because Apple will introduce a new size, as it did with the Nano, or because it is moving its connector from the top of the unit to the bottom, or because Apple has plans to introduce a competing product.

Undaunted, the big makers like Logitech, Griffin, Targus and Xtreme Accessories keep working on electronics that add functions and battery power to the iPod. Devices that turn the iPod into a home media center, allowing consumers to shuttle music from one room to another wirelessly, have become popular.

One big reason for the size of the iPod economy is that retailers love the accessories business. "Retailers have a love-hate relationship with iPod," Mr. Humphrey said. They must compete against Apple's own retail outlets for sales and the gross profit margins are slim, less than 15 percent.

Retailers' margins for the iPod accessories are much higher. Mr. Baker of NPD estimates that margins for the electronics are around 25 percent, while cases offer 50 percent margins. "They make money on that and they make no money on the iPod," he said.

While there is shelf-space competition among the hundreds of vendors, there has not been a lot of price competition, so profit margins hold.The iPod economy is also wide because the accessories are not limited to retailers like Best Buy or Circuit City as they were with personal computers. IPod accessories are showing up in Urban Outfitters stores and auto dealerships.

If at times the iPod economy seems packed with iThis and iThat, it is because manufacturers have recognized the selling power of the iPod. Take clock radios, which have been a sleepy category for more than a decade. SDI Technologies turned that around by creating the iHome clock radio, which Apple says was the strongest selling accessory last year. (You dock the iPod in the machine.) The speaker maker JBL has jumped in with the $300 JBL On Time clock radio/iPod dock.

"You throw an iPod in there and you have a growth category again," said Mr. Baker of NPD. Likewise, the headphone and earphone business also took off last year, growing about 25 percent in volume and 10 percent in average price, said Robert Heiblim, senior vice president for sales and marketing at Altec Lansing, a speaker maker.

No one is predicting that the iPod economy will be slowing soon. Mr. Baker said: "We've barely scratched the surface with the video iPod."
39 2006-02-03 While major American orchestras have annual budgets of $15 million or more, 52 of the 65 Ford consortium members have budgets of less than $880,000. The project originated during a meeting of the leaders of small-budget orchestras belonging to the American Symphony Orchestra League. Wanting to make the presence of their orchestras felt, they decided to pool their resources to commission a new work.

Each of the initial participants contributed $1,000, and those presenting four regional premieres kicked in a few thousand more.

Once the American Symphony Orchestra League and Meet the Composer became involved in this grassroots effort, the number of orchestras expanded. Financing was obtained from the Ford Motor Company Fund, the National Endowment for the Arts and other sponsors. That made it possible to commission a prominent composer, create a Web site (fordmadeinamerica.org), and provide educational and promotional materials to the participants.

"The program equips small-budget orchestras with everything they need to gain the confidence and skills to present the music of our time," said Henry Fogel, president of the league.

As a result of its involvement in the $750,000 project, one community orchestra got its first review in nearly a decade; normally, coverage is limited to its higher-budget symphonic rival. In Glens Falls, where the symphony's performances are usually covered by The Schenectady Daily Gazette, orchestra administrators persuaded the editorial board of the local newspaper, which is primarily sports-oriented, to provide advance feature coverage.

"We told them that having Joan Tower here for this world premiere was like having Joe Torre come up and coach the local baseball team," said Robert Rosoff, the orchestra's executive director.

The $120,000 Cheswatyr initiative came about because Cecille Wasserman, the president of the Cheswatyr Foundation, wanted to underwrite new music. She approached contacts at WNYC, which began commissioning works in 1994 to celebrate its 50th anniversary. Together, they discussed how to provide multiple broadcasts and performances beyond the premiere. National Public Radio was a natural partner, as was the American Music Center, which administers the program. Orpheus was selected because of its high profile, musical excellence and record in commissioning new works.

Each participating institution will contribute something in the form of services. For Orpheus, it is rehearsal time; for WNYC, it is the cost of sending sound technicians to Carnegie Hall. Each suggested three candidates for the first two years' commissions.

"We sat around a table, listening to recordings and discussing for hours," said Graham Parker, the general director of Orpheus. In the first round of voting, there was an immediate consensus for Mr. Mellits and Mr. Marshall, They had both been nominated by John Schaefer, the host of "Soundcheck" and "New Sounds" on WNYC.

Cooperative ventures between commissioning organizations, broadcast partners and performers are common overseas, Mr. Schaefer has said, but rare in the United States. So the radio coverage stemming from the Cheswatyr commissions is especially valuable to the composers. And Orpheus benefits as well. "The radio exposure for Orpheus will help enhance its national touring presence," Mr. Parker said.

Aside from their geographical scope, the Cheswatyr New Music Initiative and the Ford Made in America project offer other attractions to these composers. For Mr. Mellits, 39, whose chamber music has been championed by the Sérgio and Odair Assad guitar duo and the Bang on a Can All-Stars, the Orpheus commission is his first shot at an orchestral piece. Mr. Marshall, 69, an inveterate reviser, relishes the chance to work with Orpheus, a conductorless chamber orchestra whose longer, more collaborative rehearsal process resembles that of a string quartet.

"I can actually talk to the players," said Mr. Marshall, whose works show the disparate influences of Indonesian music, electronic techniques and early American hymns. "I don't have to have this intermediary etiquette, with the conductor turning around and yelling back, 'Did the trumpet sound better?' And you yell back, 'Yeah, I guess so,' because the clock is ticking and you don't have time to run up to the stage and say to the trumpet player, 'Try it with this mute.' "

For the 67-year-old Ms. Tower, whose works have been performed here and abroad by a number of prestigious ensembles, working with smaller-budget orchestras has proved illuminating. So far, she has attended eight of the consortium performances and conducted four herself. In the process, she said, she has been charmed by the enthusiasm of the players; appreciative, like Mr. Marshall, of the increased opportunities to make small corrections or refinements in her score; and wowed by the overall community response.

"This is a phenomenal example of how a living composer could be treated," Ms. Tower said. "There's press, dinners, receptions -- wonderfully welcoming. It's very refreshing."

Yet the nature of the consortium also presented challenges for her. Where Mr. Mellits and Mr. Marshall benefit from repeated performances by Orpheus, Ms. Tower's piece must be learned anew by each participating orchestra.

"The piece grows into itself a lot quicker when it's the same group of musicians," said Mr. Schaefer, who will be the host of the live broadcast tomorrow night. Moreover, Mr. Mellits and Mr. Marshall know exactly whom they're writing for. Indeed, Mr. Mellits's 20-minute piece includes a solo passage for the Orpheus bassoonist Frank Morelli, whom the composer has long admired from afar.

By contrast, Ms. Tower had to create a piece capable of performance by musicians ranging from youth orchestras to higher-budget regional orchestras like the Vermont and Honolulu symphonies. That necessity imposed artistic limitations on her score. Ms. Tower, who spent part of her childhood in Bolivia, is known for her lively rhythms and colorful use of percussion. Since many of the orchestras involved have, in addition to a timpanist, only one other percussion player, she was asked to confine her writing accordingly.

And she wrestled with other technical concerns, balancing them against her musical objectives. "There was one place where I wanted to go high," Ms. Tower said, "so I gave the high part to the first violinist only, and backed it up with the rest of the section an octave lower. But I went a little too high on the trumpets. And that," she added with a laugh, "was because of bad advice from a trumpet player, who was being a little macho. The solution is that they can play this one section on the piccolo trumpet."

How well did she succeed?

"It's really playable," said Barbara Yahr, who conducts Sunday's performance by the 70-member Greenwich Village Orchestra, a predominantly amateur group buttressed by conservatory students and Broadway musicians. "There are a couple of difficult trumpet parts and some fast, chromatic string passages. Some of the technical challenges are not so much just having great chops but really attending to all the details. And when you insist on what Joan has written, stopping and tormenting the orchestra with little picky things, there's music in the room, and everyone feels it."

The Cheswatyr New Music Initiative and the Ford Made in America projects serve as models for the ways commissioning organizations can maximize their investments in living composers. But even these noble efforts have limitations. "You can provide multiple performances and broadcasts, but you can't make people listen," Mr. Schaefer said.

Ultimately, history will render its verdict, and many currently successful pieces may fall by the wayside, whether or not they have enjoyed broader exposure. Meanwhile, programs that circumvent the one-shot syndrome serve listeners and composers alike.

"All you want is to get your music out there, for people to hear," Mr. Mellits said. "Just give it a chance."

Please Reprise Orpheus will perform the world premiere of "Brick" by Marc Mellits tomorrow night at 8 at Carnegie Hall. Also on the program are Ravel's "Tombeau de Couperin," Prokofiev's Violin Concerto No. 2 in G minor and Beethoven's Symphony No. 8; Vadim Repin is the featured violinist. The concert will be broadcast live on WNYC-FM (93.9). Tickets: $30 to $88. (212) 247-7800.

The Greenwich Village Orchestra will perform the New York premiere of Joan Tower's "Made in America" on Sunday at 3 p.m. at Washington Irving High School, 16th Street and Irving Place, Manhattan. The performance, which is a benefit for visual and performing arts programs at the school, will also feature student performers; other works on the program are Beethoven's Egmont Overture, Vivaldi's Double Cello Concerto and Bernstein's "On The Town." Tickets are $35; $20 for students and 65+. (212) 932-0372.
40 2006-02-03 "Certainly a lot of these kids are in the country illegally, or their parents are, but that's not the issue," Mr. Tully said. "They're here, and we need them to learn English."

The problem instead, he said, is that the governor's proposal lacks any incentive for the schools to complete the task quickly, since they would be financed on a per-pupil basis rather than by a block grant.

To meet the requirements of the court order, Ms. Napolitano has proposed spending $45 million a year to expand English-language instruction in Arizona's public schools. Beginning Wednesday, the state is being assessed a fine of at least $500,000 a day until it complies with that order, and the governor, seeking a kind of down payment on her plan, has asked the court to direct the proceeds of the fine to English-language immersion programs for schoolchildren.

Mr. Tully and other Republican lawmakers suggest that the governor is using the court order as an excuse to throw money at a problem that can be solved more cheaply; they have proposed $14 million. Some Republicans also contend that her proposal would shortchange non-immigrant Arizonans and encourage immigrants to cross the border illegally to take advantage of the state's public services.

As part of their negotiating strategy on the legislation, Republicans have attached riders that would create tax credits for corporations that contribute to private and parochial schools, a way of subsidizing private-school choice for parents who do not want to send their children to public schools. The governor has vetoed the measures three times, saying the tax credits would be excessive. Her staff has calculated their cost at $50 million a year, though the Republicans say it would be much less. Ms. Napolitano has proposed a much smaller program of tax credits that would expire in five years.

Political analysts say the fight is also an effort by Republicans to scuff up the popular Democratic governor at the onset of the election year. Ms. Napolitano, who is up for re-election in November and has all but formally declared her candidacy, is soaring in the polls, and the Republicans have yet to find a credible candidate to challenge her.

"This whole education fight is clearly a proxy for the immigration debate," said Bruce Merrill, a professor at the Walter Cronkite School of Journalism and Mass Communication at Arizona State University. "A lot of people here feel if you don't build it, they won't come."

That was the idea behind two ballot measures approved by Arizona voters. One, Proposition 203, which passed in 2000, essentially outlaws bilingual education in public schools. It requires classes to be taught in English only, forcing schools to provide remedial help for non-English speakers.

The other, Proposition 200, approved in 2004, denied some benefits to illegal immigrants, though the courts have blocked parts of it.

The current financing dispute dates from 1992, when the Arizona Center for Law in the Public Interest sued on behalf of 100,000 non-English-speaking children who were receiving no language help in the schools and were lagging in achievement as a result. In early 2000, a court ruled for the plaintiffs and ordered the state to come up with a realistic estimate of the costs and to provide an adequate sum for English-language programs.

The Legislature deadlocked on both the study and the financing, and last year a federal district judge in Tucson, Raner C. Collins, ordered the state to enact a workable English Language Learners program, or E.L.L., if it was to avoid fines beginning at $500,000 a day and escalating to $2 million a day.

Governor Napolitano convened a special session for the Legislature to take up the measure in January, but she and the lawmakers reached an impasse over the amount to be spent and the corporate tax credits.

The governor said the issue was not money -- the state is running a $1 billion surplus -- but rather bad blood between her and the Legislature and a frustration with the federal government's failure to enforce the nation's immigration laws. Arizonans, she said, are tired of bearing the cost of what many consider unchecked illegal immigration.

"But my question is, What do you do with the children who are already here?" she said. "You can't take a failed federal immigration policy out on the children. They are just pawns in this."

Mr. Tully, the House majority leader, said the impasse had been building since the governor vetoed Republican bills intended to address the issue last May, legislation for which, he said, she had signaled support. "There's just not a lot of trust there," he said.

Tim Hogan, executive director of the group that brought the 1992 lawsuit, said that while politicians brawled, schoolchildren were being left behind. He said that tens of thousands of non-English-speaking students had entered Arizona schools since the suit was filed and that dropout rates were rising because many of those children did not have a command of English.

"The issue for me is simple," Mr. Hogan said. "Are you going to educate them in compliance with the law or just kick them to the curb?"
41 2006-02-03 Israel intends to reopen the Karni crossing from Gaza to Israel on Sunday, Israeli officials said, after nearly three weeks and mounting international criticism. Karni, the main exit from Gaza for agricultural and manufactured products, was shut b...
42 2006-02-03 Federal Pension Agency to Make a Claim On a Hamptons Estate to Aid Steelworkers  The federal agency that insures pensions appears poised to lay claim to a Hamptons house owned by Ira L. Rennert to make sure he delivers on hundreds of millions of d...
43 2006-02-03 John Szarkowski became part of the history of 20th-century photography by helping to define it, through his writing and a series of groundbreaking exhibitions that he organized during his 29-year tenure as director of photography at the Museum of Modern Art. The photographs he shot for much of his life don't have the same historical weight, partly because they haven't been exhibited much. But they have a similar decisive clarity and suggest a man who, whatever his involvement with the medium, has always been something of a natural.

The point is made by a small, beautiful retrospective of Mr. Szarkowski's work that has come to the Modern. It was organized by Sandra S. Phillips, senior curator at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, and was overseen here by Peter Galassi, Mr. Szarkowski's successor as head of the photography department. The show's 75 photographs come in two distinct batches: pre-Modern and post-Modern, you could say. There are photographs that Mr. Szarkowski took in the upper Midwest from 1943, when he was 18 and studying art history at the University of Wisconsin, to 1962, when he ascended to the Modern. (He was sometimes called the Pope of Photography.) And then there are photographs that were made since 1991, the year he left the Modern; most show his apple farm in upstate New York, but some depict more distant places, like the Sonoran Desert in the Southwest. (The most recent upstate pictures can be seen in an exhibition at the Pace/MacGill Gallery, his fourth there since 1995.)

At the Modern, Mr. Szarkowski shaped the understanding of photography as a modern art, and in particular highlighted the importance of street photography and of Diane Arbus, Garry Winogrand, Lee Friedlander, Eugène Atget, Walker Evans and William Eggleston. He stressed the medium's formal and technical traits over its social concerns and defined it classically, in terms of smallish well-made black-and-white prints.

He appreciated the combination of speed, chance, control, realism and passivity that the camera afforded an artist. His fluid, optimistic writing -- at its best in "Looking at Photographs" and "The Photographer's Eye" -- emphasized the inherent beauty of photographs and made them, and by extension life, seem rich yet knowable. In the 1980's, when photo-based art exploded all around him, his point of view could seem narrow, but it laid a foundation that was both built on and fought against.

Mr. Szarkowski's photographs reiterate his voice and taste in beautiful, knowable images. The early ones are consistently charged with admiration for other photographers, attentive to the picture-taking craft and less interested in human life than in the marks it leaves on the world. (The show's single portrait shows a young Robert Penn Warren, squinting haughtily into the lens as if mildly offended.)
44 2006-02-04 Mr. Cohen and Mr. Schwarzman, however, lead an exclusive crop of traders and investors who have become multibillionaires by abandoning traditional Wall Street playing fields for the richer -- and riskier -- pastures of running their own investment firms. And in doing this, they are being paid amounts that most chief executives only dream about.

Unlike the chiefs of publicly held companies, these men run their own private partnerships and are under no obligation to disclose either their returns or their compensation. There are no pesky shareholders or watchdogs to complain about their pay.

Their sole constituency is a small circle of well-heeled investors and institutions that care little how much their managers are paid as long as the returns -- from trading stocks, currencies and commodities, or from buyouts and other investments -- are there. If the magic touch suddenly disappears, so will these big investors with their billions in tow.

Indeed, managers like Mr. Cohen and Mr. Schwarzman are being rewarded for being owners, putting their own interests ahead of their clients and taking a large cut of the profits before investors are paid.

Mr. Cohen, a former trader at a midtier investment firm who started SAC Capital in 1992, takes home up to 50 percent of his hedge fund's profits; at the Blackstone Group, Mr. Schwarzman and his team divide 20 percent of the year's gains before returning the rest to their investors.

In effect, Mr. Cohen and Mr. Schwarzman have reaped outsize profits by institutionalizing Adam Smith's dictum that self-interest, not benevolence, puts bread on their and their clients' groaning tables.

"These big paydays are based on performance," said Andy Kessler, a hedge fund manager. "For capitalism, it's great these guys are taking a piece of the upside and saying we took the risk, so we get the reward."

For Wall Street, such a risk-reward relationship can be intoxicating. Many of the Street's best bankers and traders have left comfortable posts at Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley to either join established funds or start their own.

The rapid accumulation of such wealth has been felt in New York's political, society and charity circles. Mr. Cohen, 49, a member of the board of the Robin Hood Foundation, has bought more than $700 million worth of art in recent years and has established himself as one of the most aggressive buyers on the art scene. Mr. Schwarzman, 58, who is on the board of the New York Public Library and is a trustee of the Frick Collection, was an early and avid financial backer of President Bush and has recently written checks for William F. Weld, a Republican candidate for governor of New York.

Mr. Schwarzman and Mr. Cohen declined to comment for this article.

The lush payday has always been central to Wall Street's lore. The canon includes the $500 million that Michael R. Milken received during his best years as a junk bond executive and the $20 million earned by he takeover lawyer Martin Lipton for two weeks of work in 1988 advising Kraft. But, as hedge funds and private equity funds have moved from finance's periphery to becoming critical cogs in the Wall Street money-making machine, such levels of pay are becoming the norm rather than the exception.

Strange as it may seem, Mr. Cohen's annual payday of half a billion dollars carries less shock today than it did in an earlier era. When Mr. Milken's $500 million takings was disclosed, the public reaction was one of disbelief and certainty that such a gain must have been ill gotten.

The performance of Mr. Cohen's and Mr. Schwarzman's funds has been stellar, especially in light of the stock market's pedestrian gains.

Mr. Cohen, who manages more than $6.5 billion in assets, produced a return of 16 to 19 percent last year, outpacing the 8 percent average of 1,500 hedge funds, as calculated by the MSCI hedge fund index.

In 2004, when his funds returned 23 percent, he was paid $450 million, according to a yearly compensation review of hedge fund managers undertaken by Institutional Investor magazine. He tends to reinvest his earnings back into his funds.

At Blackstone, Mr. Schwarzman's $6.5 billion fund returned 70 percent, driven by $3.4 billion in asset sales last year, the best year the buyout firm has had since Mr. Schwarzman and his co-founder, Peter G. Peterson, left Lehman Brothers in 1985 and hung out their own shingle.

Hedge funds are lightly regulated pools of capital that typically use borrowed money and rapid-fire, short-term strategies of trading in stocks, commodities, currencies or derivatives to seek the largest possible gains.

Private equity funds are different from hedge funds in that they buy out public companies or take large stakes in private companies, revamp operations by cutting costs and then sell their positions through public offerings or sales to other companies. As opposed to the approach of most hedge funds, investments in buyout funds tend to bear fruit over a longer stretch of time.

As with Mr. Cohen's pay, calculating Mr. Schwarzman's compensation is an inexact science. Both SAC and Blackstone are closely held partnerships and little is disclosed. But what is known is that Blackstone takes 20 percent of the $3.4 billion, before investors get their share (the Blackstone partners will also share in $1.8 billion from their real estate investments). That $1 billion is then apportioned among the firm's 48 partners. Blackstone does not disclose how ownership breaks down, other than admitting that it once was 50-50 between Mr. Peterson and Mr. Schwarzman 20 years ago and that that ratio no longer holds true today.

Guessing Mr. Schwarzman's stake has been a favorite parlor game on Wall Street, and current and former Blackstone employees say it could be as low as 20 percent and as high as 35 percent (the guesswork tends to focus on the higher end). Depending which figure you use, the return to Mr. Schwarzman would range from $210 million to $360 million.

What also distinguishes their pay from chief executives of public companies is that it comes mostly in cash. By comparison, Henry M. Paulson Jr., the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, was paid $29.8 million in 2004. Only $600,000 of that will hit his bank account, with the rest coming as Goldman Sachs stock.

Both men took different routes to securing their returns. In an industry that puts a premium on abstruse theories and complicated financial instruments, one of Mr. Cohen's bets last year was a surprisingly conventional, straightforward one: he accumulated a large share of Google in the months after its public offering in 2004, accumulating 3.4 percent of the stock by February, when the stock was trading for $100 to $200.

People who invest with Mr. Cohen say that at the root of his success is an uncanny ability to pick the perfect time to buy and sell a stock. If a stock is going up, he holds on; if he gets the sense that a stock will drop 5 percent one day, even if its long-term prospects remain solid, he will sell, knowing that he can re-establish a position at some later point. Google would seem to be a case in point. He rode the stock up, but bailed out as it hit higher, more volatile levels. Recent filings show that he owns just 0.02 percent of the stock.

At Blackstone, last year, it seemed as if Mr. Schwarzman took a page out of Mr. Cohen's playbook. Returns last year were propelled by large sales of companies like Celanese, Foundation Coal and New Skies Satellites that in some cases came a little more than a year after the firm had bought stakes in them. In an industry known for its tortoiselike patience -- Henry R. Kravis, Mr. Schwarzman's main competitor, once waited 17 years before profitably cashing in his stake in Safeway -- such rapid turnover is unusual.

To be sure, stellar investor acumen lies at the root of their bountiful returns. But it is their size and increasing sway over Wall Street proper that must also be considered when evaluating their success. Combined, the two men shower investment banks with an estimated $1 billion in commissions and fees every year.

Both Mr. Cohen and Mr. Schwarzman are moving quickly to cash in on their good years. Mr. Cohen is currently raising money for a $2 billion fund, his first new offering since he opened his door to investors in 1992. And Mr. Schwarzman is on the verge of closing his own $13 billion fund, which will be the largest private equity fund ever.

But their rush to raise more money could be seen as a harbinger of darker times to come. "It's easy to raise money at a time like this because there is a bubble in both these asset classes," said Roy C. Smith, a former Goldman partner and a professor at the Stern School of Business at New York University. "The magnetism is so strong its like a hot-money stampede. It's a measure of how things have become distorted. Remember, however, Wall Street is nothing but a history of distortions. "
45 2006-02-04 HONG KONG, Feb. 3 - Thousands of people lined up to visit Mickey Mouse in Hong Kong this week. But when they could not get in, they got grumpy.

Crowds of angry Chinese, brandishing tickets after they were turned away at the Disneyland entrance, had shouting matches with the police and security guards. Some people clambered over the heavy green steel gates after guards closed them. In one scene played repeatedly on local television, one unhappy child had to be passed by the crowd over the spikes of the gates to his parents inside.

The culprit was a discount-ticket promotion gone awry. Disneyland had failed to anticipate the rush of vacationers from mainland China during the Chinese New Year. As the numbers of people trying to enter the park swelled, officials closed its gates and stopped admitting people who had bought tickets in advance.

Even the Hong Kong government issued a statement late Thursday calling on Disneyland to improve its ticketing and entry procedures. The park has issued an apology to disappointed ticket holders.

By Friday morning, the crowds had subsided, as most Hong Kong residents stayed away from the park and the flow of visitors became more orderly. But the lines in the park were still long, even by Disney standards, and the park announced that it would not sell more tickets at the gate for the day, and even Internet sales were temporarily suspended.
46 2006-02-04 A court in Moscow this week dismissed a civil lawsuit brought against an exhibition that a group of artists said had violated their religious freedoms by mocking Russian Orthodoxy and inciting interfaith animosity. The nine artists who filed the s...
47 2006-02-04 Isiah Thomas, not idling amid the turmoil swirling around him, made a trade typical of his tenure as Knicks president Friday by taking on an expensive player slightly past his prime, but acquiring a first-round draft pick in the process.     Befor...
48 2006-02-04 Health officials who have been tracking the disproportionate AIDS death rates among minorities over the last several years say those rates stem from factors including a failure to identify the sick and get them into treatment, as well as a failure to keep them in care and the strong stigma that AIDS carries in many minority neighborhoods.

Last week, Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, the city's health commissioner, said that changing this grim portrait of AIDS would require a radical rethinking of how to combat the disease, including changes in state law to allow health workers to test people for H.I.V. more aggressively and permit health department workers to use the information the city already collects to reach out directly to patients and their doctors to help in treatment.

Mr. Frieden would like to have patients tested for H.I.V. as part of their routine medical care. While changes would still require oral consent, he would like to ease the cumbersome process of written consent and hearing from their doctors the downside of being tested, as the law currently requires.

The city has struggled for years to find ways to provide AIDS information to certain groups, like married men who secretly also have sex with other men.

Some health care experts say, however, that the city has been too slow to act.

"The city has buried its head in the sand on this as far as I am concerned," said Dr. Karen Brudney, director of the infectious diseases clinics at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia Hospital.

"For 10 years I have seen rising rates and rising caseloads," she said. While strongly supporting Dr. Frieden's efforts, she said the city needed to focus on problems that prevent patients from getting basic care, like frequent changes in residence.

There are few financial barriers to getting care for H.I.V. and AIDS, however. Through an elaborate network of programs financed by the city, the state and the federal government, help is available and drug treatments for even the poorest patients are fully subsidized.

But the latest statistics from the Health Department show that many people who most need care fail to get it.

When AIDS largely affected gay white men, those men tended to take charge of their own care, health officials said.

That has not happened among black and Latino men and women, in large part, health officials say, because many patients would rather die than risk having family or friends find out they are sick.

For instance, Chelsea, with a large population of gay white men, continues to have the highest rate of newly diagnosed cases in the city, 153 per 100,000 people in 2004. Central Harlem is close behind, with 119 newly diagnosed people for every 100,000.

Yet infected people in Chelsea are half as likely to die from the disease.

Black women have been particularly hard hit: Heterosexual sex accounts for an increasing rate of new AIDS cases.

The increase in H.I.V. infection among young women is even more alarming. In New York, girls and women now account for 48 percent of new infections among teenagers 13 to 19, according to a December report by the New York State AIDS Advisory Council.

The rate of AIDS among black women is 27 times the rate among white women.

The report found that a variety of reasons, including cultural and gender issues, come into play in the lives of minority and ethnic women. "Women are expected to accept, or at least not to question, the lifestyles of their male partners," the report stated.

Concerns about stigma and privacy originally led to stringent laws to protect patients. But those laws, however necessary 20 years ago, also meant that many of the traditional public health approaches used in fighting other infectious diseases -- like contacting patients about their need for treatment -- could not be used. The threat of violence also deters women from trying to negotiate safer sex or resisting unprotected sex, the report said. Secrecy and denial about high-risk activity, prostitution and infidelity pervade many ethnic groups, and as better drugs became available and death rates fell, many health experts said, a sense of complacency settled in.

Correction: February 8, 2006, Wednesday An article on Saturday about the high rate of AIDS infection among black New Yorkers referred incorrectly to one statistic. According to the city health department, one in five black men ages 40 to 49 in Manhattan -- not in the entire city -- has H.I.V. or AIDS. (The citywide figure is just under 1 in 10 black men.)
49 2006-02-04 N.F.L. Commissioner Paul Tagliabue acknowledged Friday that negotiations between the league and the players union concerning a new collective-bargaining agreement were not going well.     The current deal has two years left, but the salary cap wil...
50 2006-02-04 In the last decade, these people said, he set out to rejuvenate a beloved but indebted century-old British car company, but instead it fell further into debt. Manufacturing in England has halted. Some longtime AC employees have filed claims that they were shorted weeks of wages, and some customers who had put down tens of thousands of dollars to order cars never saw a delivery. Some never got their money back.

As production unraveled in England, and finally ceased last year, Mr. Lubinsky began pursuing plans to move some of AC's operations to Malta, in the Mediterranean. The move, as well as the plans to come to Connecticut, follows two decades in which Mr. Lubinsky has led or been involved with dozens of corporate identities on at least three continents, from car leasing to magnesium research.

Some people view Mr. Lubinsky as a determined visionary who has made mistakes in some of his business decisions. Others say he secures investors for his ideas, then leaves them with little, if anything, to show.

"I just would never, ever consider recommending him to anyone for anything in any place," said Jim Price, a South African replica carmaker. He said that he lost more than $100,000 in 2002 when he invested to help keep AC Cars in business in England and that Mr. Lubinsky abruptly abandoned their arrangement for another deal.

Mr. Lubinsky, 48, disputes some complaints, including those of Mr. Price, saying that he is trying to take over his company.

"Everybody's entitled to be skeptical," he said, speaking in a phone interview from Malta on Friday. "It comes through jealousy. We have our plans and we're going to go on with our plan. There are many experts in this industry and not many of them have ever built a car."

He added, "We will do whatever we can to meet whatever commitments we have in the future in Connecticut."

David P. Raccio, a spokesman for the Department of Economic and Community Development, said negotiations with Mr. Lubinsky were confidential. "This is a very complex deal, as most international deals are," he said in a written statement. "Often times, issues arise during the due diligence process. Like many deals, we have identified some issues, and we are addressing them with AC Cars. We are hopeful that we can work through them."

By some accounts, Mr. Lubinsky, who was born in South Africa, can be charming, convincingly passionate about AC Cars and impressively confident of his ventures.

In England, a machinist who did work for AC Cars, Graham Bates, said that Mr. Lubinsky could be aloof, that he rarely came in or even called in to the factory and that, by last year, he had stopped paying his workers.

"But if you said, 'Could you lend me 50 quid?' he'd reach into his pocket and give it to you," Mr. Bates said.

The promise of manufacturing jobs for Bridgeport drew Connecticut officials' interest in AC Cars. The city has several new capital projects, including a minor league baseball stadium, and is trying to rise from years of poverty, crime and mismanagement.

Mr. Lubinsky approached the state in January 2005 with a proposal to move some of his operations to Connecticut. After several months of discussion, Mr. Raccio said, "we had enough confidence in the deal that we could recommend it to the governor."

By the November announcement, the state had tentatively agreed to loan AC Cars $1.5 million for what the governor's office described as "site preparation, construction, machinery and equipment and moving expenses." The loan must still be approved by the State Bond Commission; Mrs. Rell is the chairwoman.

Mr. Lubinsky said he planned to produce three new car models in Bridgeport under the AC Cars brand, the AC Ace and the Mk VI -- both two-seat convertibles -- and the Mamba, a hard-top coupe. Only one of the cars, the Mamba, exists even in prototype form. Mr. Lubinsky has said that 50 cars would be built in Bridgeport the first year, and that 800 could be built annually by 2012, though he now says a completed car is not likely to roll out of a Bridgeport factory until October 2007.

To avoid lengthy and expensive federal production standards, the cars would be sold to distributors as kit cars, "rolling chassis," with engines to be installed after they leave the factory. Mr. Lubinsky has said that these incomplete cars could sell for $55,000 or more.

James Seeley, who owns a composites manufacturing company in Bethel, Conn., and is vice president of manufacturing and corporate secretary for AC Cars, said he had "no clue" as to how the Bridgeport-built cars will be distributed.

Several dealers, in Connecticut, New York and Colorado, said Mr. Lubinsky had asked them for deposits for cars to be built in Malta. Some said they gave him the money and he has not delivered.

One, Ron Gafni, general manager at Riley Motorsports in Stamford, Conn., said cars Mr. Lubinsky said would arrive in October or November have not materialized. Mr. Gafni said that his dealership had paid Mr. Lubinsky a deposit of about $40,000 but had not been able to reach him since May 2005.

"We're in limbo now," he said.

In an interview, Mr. Lubinsky said that he had promised Mr. Gafni cars by last fall but that "from what I understand we've made them aware that we have delayed that until March. They asked to be refunded the deposits. We will do that when those cars get sold to a distributor."

Mr. Lubinsky said he had signed a distribution deal for Malta and Bridgeport cars with Unique Performance, a small-volume muscle-car manufacturer based in the Dallas suburbs. But it is unclear whether it would include the Bridgeport cars.

Brent Fenimore, Unique Performance's vice president of business development, said that his company was concentrating on producing replicas of other AC models and that any distribution of the Bridgeport cars was "yet to be determined."

Mr. Fenimore added: "It's kind of confusing right now. We have to get the AC name cleaned up. We want to get it back to the reputable side of life." Founded in 1901, AC Cars is one of England's oldest automotive brands. Internationally, the company's identity has been built around the AC Cobra, a tiny convertible, propelled by powerful Ford eight-cylinder engines, that became an icon on dorm room walls in the 1960's.

Mr. Lubinsky, who spent his early career selling Jaguars in South Africa, was the owner of a commercial car leasing company in England when he bought AC Cars out of receivership in 1996 for about $9 million, declaring that he would restore what had become an embattled company. But by 2002, Mr. Lubinsky had placed AC Cars back in the control of outside accountants, this time filing a form of bankruptcy and claiming debts of about $15 million.

The company, which often built cars to order, had left orders unfilled, sometimes after taking tens of thousands of dollars in deposits that were never reimbursed, according to documents. The company's workforce dwindled from more than 40 employees a few years ago to about a dozen by last year. Finally, said Mr. Bates, the former machinist, "We weren't getting paid so we all stopped working. The landlord wasn't being paid the rent, so he changed the locks."

Of the claims by workers, Mr. Lubinsky said: "Those are situations that are under legal investigation. We may have a difference of opinion."

With AC Cars bound by a creditors agreement in England, Mr. Lubinsky shifted some of his operations to Malta. Mr. Lubinsky said on Friday that he had "18 or 19" employees there and that the company would be building one car a week by "the next couple of weeks."

John Owen, AC Cars' chief engineer in Malta, said that the Malta factory employs 14 people and that he expected to begin producing one car a week "as soon as some of these parts come in; we'll be up and running by May."

The Malta factory has produced a total of six cars, four of which have been exported, Mr. Owen said.
51 2006-02-04 In October, for example, George Deutsch, a presidential appointee in NASA headquarters, told a Web designer working for the agency to add the word "theory" after every mention of the Big Bang, according to an e-mail message from Mr. Deutsch that another NASA employee forwarded to The Times.

And in December 2004, a scientist at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory complained to the agency that he had been pressured to say in a news release that his oceanic research would help advance the administration's goal of space exploration.

On Thursday night and Friday, The Times sent some of the documents to Dr. Griffin and senior public-affairs officials requesting a response.

While Dr. Griffin did not respond directly, he issued the "statement of scientific openness" to agency employees, saying, "NASA has always been, is and will continue to be committed to open scientific and technical inquiry and dialogue with the public."

Because NASA encompasses a nationwide network of research centers on everything from cosmology to climate, Dr. Griffin said, some central coordination was necessary. But he added that changes in the public-affairs office's procedures "can and will be made," and that a revised policy would "be disseminated throughout the agency."

Asked if the statement came in response to the new documents and the furor over Dr. Hansen's complaints, Dr. Griffin's press secretary, Dean Acosta, replied by e-mail:

"From time to time, the administrator communicates with NASA employees on policy and issues. Today was one of those days. I hope this helps. Have a good weekend."

Climate science has been a thorny issue for the administration since 2001, when Mr. Bush abandoned a campaign pledge to restrict power plant emissions of carbon dioxide, the main heat-trapping gas linked to global warming, and said the United States would not join the Kyoto Protocol, the first climate treaty requiring reductions.

But the accusations of political interference with the language of news releases and other public information on science go beyond climate change.

In interviews this week, more than a dozen public-affairs officials, along with half a dozen agency scientists, spoke of growing efforts by political appointees to control the flow of scientific information.

In the months before the 2004 election, according to interviews and some documents, these appointees sought to review news releases and to approve or deny news media requests to interview NASA scientists.

Repeatedly that year, public-affairs directors at all of NASA's science centers were admonished by White House appointees at headquarters to focus all attention on Mr. Bush's January 2004 "vision" for returning to the Moon and eventually traveling to Mars.

Starting early in 2004, directives, almost always transmitted verbally through a chain of midlevel workers, went out from NASA headquarters to the agency's far-flung research centers and institutes saying that all news releases on earth science developments had to allude to goals set out in Mr. Bush's "vision statement" for the agency, according to interviews with public-affairs officials working in headquarters and at three research centers.

Many people working at Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md., and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif., said that at the same time, there was a slowdown in these centers' ability to publish anything related to climate.

Most of these career government employees said they could speak only on condition of anonymity, saying they feared reprisals. But their accounts tightly meshed with one another.

One NASA scientist, William Patzert, at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, confirmed the general tone of the agency that year.

"That was the time when NASA was reorganizing and all of a sudden earth science disappeared," Mr. Patzert said. "Earth kind of got relegated to just being one of the 9 or 10 planets. It was ludicrous."

In another incident, on Dec. 2, 2004, the propulsion lab and NASA headquarters issued a news release describing research on links between wind patterns and the recent warming of the Indian Ocean.

It included a statement in quotation marks from Tong Lee, a scientist at the laboratory, saying the analysis could "advance space exploration" and "may someday prove useful in studying climate systems on other planets."

But after other scientists at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory queried Dr. Lee on the statement, he e-mailed public-affairs officers saying he disavowed the quotation and demanded that the release be taken off the Web site. His message was part of a sequence of e-mail messages exchanged between scientists and public-affairs officers. That string of messages was provided to The Times on Friday by a NASA official.

In his e-mail message, Dr. Lee explained that he had cobbled together the statement on space exploration under "the pressure of the new HQ requirement for relevance to space exploration" and under a timeline requiring that NASA "needed something instantly."

The press office dropped the quotation from its version of the release, but in Washington, the NASA headquarters public affairs office did not.

Dr. Lee declined to be interviewed for this article.

According to other e-mail messages, the flare-up did not stop senior officials in headquarters from insisting that Mr. Bush's space-oriented vision continue to be reflected in all earth-science releases.

In the end, the news release with Dr. Lee's disavowed remark remained up on the NASA headquarters public affairs Web site until The Times asked about it yesterday. It was removed from the Web at midday.

The Big Bang memo came from Mr. Deutsch, a 24-year-old presidential appointee in the press office at NASA headquarters whose résumé says he was an intern in the "war room" of the 2004 Bush-Cheney re-election campaign. A 2003 journalism graduate of Texas A&M, he was also the public-affairs officer who sought more control over Dr. Hansen's public statements.

In October 2005, Mr. Deutsch sent an e-mail message to Flint Wild, a NASA contractor working on a set of Web presentations about Einstein for middle-school students. The message said the word "theory" needed to be added after every mention of the Big Bang.

The Big Bang is "not proven fact; it is opinion," Mr. Deutsch wrote, adding, "It is not NASA's place, nor should it be to make a declaration such as this about the existence of the universe that discounts intelligent design by a creator."

It continued: "This is more than a science issue, it is a religious issue. And I would hate to think that young people would only be getting one-half of this debate from NASA. That would mean we had failed to properly educate the very people who rely on us for factual information the most."

The memo also noted that The Associated Press Stylebook and Libel Manual specified the phrasing "Big Bang theory." Mr. Acosta, Mr. Deutsch's boss, said in an interview yesterday that for that reason, it should be used in all NASA documents.

The Deutsch memo was provided by an official at NASA headquarters who said he was upset with the effort to justify changes to descriptions of science by referring to politically charged issues like intelligent design. Senior NASA officials did not dispute the message's authenticity.

Mr. Wild declined to be interviewed; Mr. Deutsch did not respond to e-mail or phone messages. On Friday evening, repeated queries were made to the White House about how a young presidential appointee with no science background came to be supervising Web presentations on cosmology and interview requests to senior NASA scientists.

The only response came from Donald Tighe of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. "Science is respected and protected and highly valued by the administration," he said.
52 2006-02-04 ConAgra Foods Plans to Sell Meat Brands, Including Armour, Butterball and Eckrich  The packaged food company ConAgra Foods said yesterday that it planned to shed most of its refrigerated meats businesses, including the Armour, Butterball and Eckri...
53 2006-02-04 Representatives for Deutsche Bank and Ernst & Young declined to comment. Sidley Austin did not return calls for comment.

Mr. Daugerdas, 55, a hard-driving tax lawyer and accountant by training, was the most senior of the three lawyers. All three have been accused in civil litigation of writing hundreds of legal opinion letters in recent years that blessed aggressive tax shelters sold by accounting firms and, in some cases, by the law firm itself, that did not pass muster with the Internal Revenue Service.

Lawyers for the three declined to comment. Lawyers in the civil litigation have sought to have the lawsuits dismissed. Jenkens & Gilchrist declined to comment.

Mr. Daugerdas left the firm in December. But he may still have ties to his former employer. In 1999 and 2001, Jenkens & Gilchrist offered him two unusual indemnification agreements in which it agreed to support him and foot his legal bills should he or the firm be sued over tax shelters, according to a person who has seen copies of the agreements.

Many former clients now suing him or the firm are among the very wealthy, including William N. Melton, who is the founder of CyberCash, an Internet payments system, and who once served on the board of America Online; Jeffrey F. Welles, a former Lazard investment banker who runs a $33 million private foundation, the Cricket Foundation; and Daniel E. Berce, a former chief executive of the mortgage lender Ameri-Credit, according to civil litigation.

The clients bought the tax shelters through Jenkens & Gilchrist or through other accounting, law or financial firms, sometimes paying the law firms hundreds of thousands of dollars for legal opinions blessing the transactions as legitimate.

According to a lawsuit filed by an Indiana investor, Henry N. Camferdam, Mr. Daugerdas used Deutsche Bank for transactions underlying a shelter known as Cobra for scores of clients. In September 1999, Mr. Daugerdas participated in a conference call with four Ernst & Young employees and others about the fees and workings of the Cobra shelter, according to the complaint.

Cobra is one of Mr. Daugerdas' claims to fame, though the accounting firm Ernst & Young also takes credit for creating the shelter, according to an allegation in a lawsuit in a dispute between Mr. Daugerdas and a former business partner, James Haber of Diversified Group, that has since been settled.

Cobra is an acronym for currency options bring reward alternatives. It involves generating artificial losses through offsetting foreign currency trades funneled through partnerships or private companies. The losses were then to be claimed on an individual's tax return as legitimate offsets to taxable income.

Cobra, which the Internal Revenue Service never considered valid for deductions, is a variation of another abusive shelter known as Son of Boss. The I.R.S., which banned Son-of-Boss-style transactions in 2000, persuaded more than 1,200 people to come forward last year and pay $3.7 billion in taxes owed.

For his tax shelter work, Mr. Daugerdas was amply rewarded. He took home $93 million from 1999 through 2003, putting part of it in a private firm he set up, with Jenkens' blessing, called Treasurex, according to people who have seen sealed court documents filed in connection with a previous class-action suit between Jenkens & Gilchrist and investors.

Yet Mr. Daugerdas, who lives with his wife and six children in Wilmette, a northern Chicago suburb, does not lead a flashy lifestyle.

"He doesn't do diamonds or Rolexes," a former colleague said.

Mr. Daugerdas had been head of futures and options trading at the Chicago office of Arthur Andersen, the accounting firm that is now defunct. There, he specialized in arcane, complex financial transactions, some of them at the heart of tax shelters now under scrutiny. He later joined the tax practice of the Chicago law firm of Altheimer & Grey.

Seeking to ramp up its growth, Jenkens & Gilchrist hired Mr. Daugerdas and a team of four from Altheimer & Grey, including Mr. Meyer and Ms. Guerin, in January 1999.

Thanks to Mr. Daugerdas, Jenkens became one of the fastest-growing law firms in revenue. By 2004, there were signs of regrets.

David M. Laney, who was chairman and chief executive of Jenkens & Gilchrist when Mr. Daugerdas was hired, told Texas Lawyer magazine that year that the tax group "ran away from me."

"You had a board that became so enamored and devoured by revenue targets that it eroded a law firm culture," he was quoted as saying. Mr. Laney declined to comment.
54 2006-02-04 In recent years, Chicago has made a similar effort, while many other jurisdictions, statistics suggest, have been more inclined to place children in foster care.

New York's reduction in the number of children in foster care happened even as the number of complaints of abuse and neglect of children have declined at a much slower rate. Indeed, for the last several years, the agency has been monitoring more children in supportive care in their homes than it has children in foster care.

Then, over the last 10 weeks, four children whose families were known to the child welfare agency have been killed in their homes by adults, the authorities say. Another drowned while his mother was in the next room.

Some of the deaths involved cases where children had been removed from potentially dangerous homes and then returned. At least one, however, involved a child whose state of peril was never determined because caseworkers failed to fully investigate her home life.

But the string of deaths, which received extraordinary news media coverage, has found the city on the defensive about its family preservation efforts. Child welfare officials have pledged to stay the course, and while conceding that a number of the deaths resulted from mistakes or possible misjudgments by caseworkers, they have disputed the notion that the children died because of the failings of a systemic philosophy.

Some supporters of the policy assert that the scrutiny itself is unfair, insisting that the deaths were terrible flukes and statistically meaningless.

They point out that children die in foster care too, and that the news media's focus on the recent deaths has prompted a panic of sorts that has resulted in children being removed from homes that may be struggling, but are hardly a menace.

Others, though, see a system that has become too inclined to keep families together -- sometime even overlooking real risks -- while failing to adequately make good on the kind of help the families need.

They point to rising rates of repeated abuse in the homes -- a red flag in child welfare work -- as a sign that the city could and should be doing better at providing help or removing children to protective care.

Administration and child welfare officials have said they are taking a hard look at whether the agency is providing quality services quickly enough to the families they leave together.

"I do not have an ideology," said John B. Mattingly, commissioner of the city's Administration for Children's Services. "I have built my entire career around fighting that sense that one or another thing is the right thing. I believe that children do best in strong, forever families. If the birth family cannot be made safe, then another family should be a strong permanent family. But families that can be helped before they become dangerous to their children should be."

The family preservation effort, in its current form, began in New York back in earnest in 1999. At the time, the system was full of children who had been brought into care as a result of the crack epidemic, as well as in reaction to the death of a little girl named Elisa Izquierdo, who herself was overlooked by overtaxed caseworkers before being beaten to death by her mother in November 1995.

The child welfare commissioner at the time, Nicholas Scoppetta, was unequivocal that the placing of children in foster care after Elisa's death had been too knee-jerk and gone too far. "I'm absolutely convinced we have too many children in foster care," he said in a 2001 interview.

Mr. Scoppetta, with the aid of Mr. Mattingly, who was then serving the agency as a consultant, put into place a system that would allow more children to stay at home, even in poor or unsettled households.

The policy had three aims: training caseworkers to make smart evaluations of the risk to children, giving troubled families help as early as possible to avoid reaching a crisis stage, and removing children from their homes if danger was imminent.

Susan Jacobs, a lawyer and executive director of the Center for Family Representation, an organization that provides representation to parents involved in Family Court, said the policy was based on two hard-learned truisms of humane child welfare.

"First, there isn't a child who doesn't want to go home to their birth parents," she said. "And secondly, just because you are not a model parent does not mean you are a terrible parent."

Over subsequent years the number of children in foster care dropped precipitously, from nearly 31,000 in fiscal year 2001 to below 17,000, where it stands today. The reasons for that were multiple, but no one disputes the new policy played a role.

Throughout, the deaths of children who had at some point been involved with child welfare authorities -- including children in foster care -- bounced roughly between 25 and 35 a year.

Over and over, in interviews with reporters and in City Council testimony, the people in charge of the child welfare system cited the decline in the number of foster children as a sign of the health of the system.

Some veteran child welfare experts, however, came to wonder if the city was capable of making judgments about who should be left at home.

"Their sole criteria for claiming reform has been the reduction of the in-custody population without regard to whether the right children are at home and the right children are in custody," said Marcia Robinson Lowry, the founder and executive director of Children's Rights Inc., an advocacy group and longtime critic of the city's child welfare policies.

Ms. Lowry, who said she admired Mr. Mattingly, the current child welfare commissioner, said that while city officials were leaving more children in at-risk homes, they were not paying attention to the critical tools for safely executing the policy -- namely the quality of the decision-making by caseworkers and the adequacy of support services that were supposed to be provided to the families. And there were clear warnings, she said, that those failings were causing children harm.

One possible sign of trouble was raised in a 2005 report in which city officials admitted that the number of children "who were the subject of repeat allegations" of abuse and neglect within one year had risen slightly.

The increase, though minor, involved a category watched closely by child welfare officials and outside experts. Two of the recent deaths involved children whose abuse or neglect had prompted repeated allegations and investigations.

David Tobis, executive director of the Child Welfare Fund, an organization that makes grants to support child welfare reforms, is a supporter of the family preservation policy. But he said that he was worried that families identified as needing help were not actually getting the services they required and were promised.

"The number of kids entering preventive services has declined slightly over the last two years," Mr. Tobis said. "It should be increasing astronomically if we are leaving so many more at home."

Andrew White, director of the Center for New York City Affairs at The New School, echoed that concern. "Every one of these cases reveals the failure to reach the family sooner with some kind of support system," he said of the five recent deaths.

The breakdowns between the caseworkers who investigate the abuse allegations and the workers in charge of providing help to the families have already come to the attention of Mr. Mattingly, who says he has made changes to fix the problem.

Mr. Mattingly said that he was working to improve a new system for evaluating the work of agencies with city contracts for providing support services for troubled families. Such a system has been in place for years to evaluate the performance of the foster care agencies that work with the city.

On family preservation, Mr. Mattingly said he was not an ideologue but thought that a child's safety had to come first.

"It is clear from these few cases, which we are looking at deeply, that there are serious practice problems in this system," he said. "If you are just plugging families into various services, it is bad practice. If you are leaving children in the home just to leave them in the home, that is bad practice and we will fix it."

Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg yesterday repeated his support for Mr. Mattingly and his policies.

"You can't remove every child from every family whenever there is the potential for a problem," he said, "because there wouldn't be enough foster homes and the foster homes have their problems as well."
55 2006-02-04 To the Editor:     We dispute the description in ''Pulling Rank,'' by John R. Lott Jr. (Op-Ed, Jan. 25), of what the American Bar Association Standing Committee on Federal Judiciary does and what it does not do....
56 2006-02-04 The Food and Drug Administration ordered a New Jersey-based broker of human tissue closed this week amid accusations the company took body parts from cadavers without family permission and did not always screen them for disease.

The agency said an investigation showed that the company, Biomedical Tissue Services of Fort Lee, had improper documentation of the cause of death of some tissue donors.

The chief executive of Biomedical Tissue Services, Michael Mastromarino, complied with the order but is appealing it, said Mario Gallucci, a lawyer for the company. "We are litigating every piece of this," Mr. Gallucci said.

The F.D.A. investigation found death certificates on file that were inconsistent in age and manner of death with certificates filed with the state. In one case, tissue documented as coming from a 63-year-old man who died of a heart attack came from a body the state had listed as a 69-year-old who died of multiorgan failure due to liver dysfunction.

Mr. Gallucci said the company was not responsible for the death certificates, having simply received paperwork from funeral parlors and other body processors. "All we were was a middleman here, and we seem to be getting the short end of the stick."

A spokesman for the Brooklyn district attorney's office, which has been looking into funeral homes involved in tissue harvesting, said an investigation was continuing.
57 2006-02-04 MOSCOW, Feb. 3 - A Russian court ruled Friday that the director of a small American-financed human rights organization had incited ethnic and religious hatred by publishing newspaper commentaries by two Chechen separatist leaders in 2004.

The court, however, imposed only a two-year suspended sentence, allowing him to go free, rather than sentencing him to four years in prison, as prosecutors had demanded.

The criminal case against the man, Stanislav M. Dmitriyevsky, director of the Russian-Chechen Friendship Society, has generated international attention and has been widely criticized as what seems to be a precursor to a legal campaign against advocacy groups and other private organizations in Russia.

President Vladimir V. Putin signed into law last month new restrictions on such groups in what critics have called an effort to stifle criticism of the Kremlin, especially regarding human rights, political freedom and the war against separatists in Chechnya.

Mr. Dmitriyevsky said in an interview after the verdict that the case served as a warning to other organizations of the danger of dissenting views. "It is not a victory," he said. "Let's wait and see what happens next."
58 2006-02-05 She did not wear a Statue of Liberty costume, or a ridiculous Jamaican wig. She failed to moonwalk or break-dance or sing with her mouth closed. When Tyra Juliette Schwartz, a Staten Island native, arrived for her audition on the Fox reality show "American Idol," which ran in January, there were no gimmicks at all. She just sang, and it worked.

Ms. Schwartz, 24, who is a wedding singer and a waitress by day and who lives in an apartment in Murray Hill with dimensions that she describes as "two by two," says she believes that more than 10 years of hard work have begun to pay off.

"Not everybody's going to love you," Ms. Schwartz, raven-haired and cheerful, said last week. "But if you love yourself and are sure of what you're doing and do it with confidence, it doesn't matter."

Having boosters back home helps, too. Kristen Rodak, a music teacher from Eltingville, Staten Island, who rode the ferry with Ms. Schwartz every day to high school, said, "All the little kids in my class are like, 'Did you watch "American Idol" last night?' " Her students, at Public School 55 in Staten Island, promise to vote for Ms. Schwartz via text messaging when the time comes to do so.

Dru Hepkins, an old friend of Ms. Schwartz's who is originally from Mariners Harbor, added, "On Staten Island, there are a lot of people who have always believed in her and watched what she's done."
59 2006-02-05 JERSEY CITY'S art scene, ever twitchy and strenuously hip, continues to evolve with several galleries opening this winter. Topping the list is Allura Gallery, a raw, dicey place on the first floor of an old cheesecake factory on a street that exud...
60 2006-02-05 For decades a familiar presence on television and the lecture circuit, Ms. Friedan, with her short stature and deeply hooded eyes, looked for much of her adult life like a "combination of Hermione Gingold and Bette Davis," as Judy Klemesrud wrote in The New York Times Magazine in 1970.

A brilliant student who graduated summa cum laude from Smith College in 1942, Ms. Friedan trained as a psychologist but never pursued a career in the field. When she wrote "The Feminine Mystique," she was a suburban housewife and mother who supplemented her husband's income by writing freelance articles for women's magazines.

Though Ms. Friedan was not generally considered a lyrical stylist, "The Feminine Mystique," read today, is as mesmerizing as it was more than four decades ago:

"Gradually, without seeing it clearly for quite a while, I came to realize that something is very wrong with the way American women are trying to live their lives today," Ms. Friedan wrote in the opening line of the preface. "I sensed it first as a question mark in my own life, as a wife and mother of three small children, half-guiltily, and therefore half-heartedly, almost in spite of myself, using my abilities and education in work that took me away from home."

The words have the hypnotic pull of a fairy tale, and for the next 400 pages, Ms. Friedan identifies, dissects and damningly indicts one of the most pervasive folk beliefs of postwar American life: the myth of suburban women's domestic fulfillment she came to call the feminine mystique.

Drawing on history, psychology, sociology and economics, as well as on interviews she conducted with women across the country, Ms. Friedan charted a gradual metamorphosis of the American woman from the independent, career-minded New Woman of the 1920's and 30's into the vacant, aproned housewife of the postwar years.

The portrait she painted was chilling. For a typical woman of the 1950's, even a college-educated one, life centered almost exclusively on chores and children. She cooked and baked and bandaged and chauffeured and laundered and sewed. She did the mopping and the marketing and took her husband's gray flannel suit to the cleaners. She was happy to keep his dinner warm till he came wearily home from downtown.

The life she led, if educators, psychologists and the mass media were to be believed, was the fulfillment of every women's most ardent dream. Yet she was unaccountably tired, impatient with the children, craving something that neither marital sex nor extramarital affairs could satisfy. Her thoughts sometimes turned to suicide. She consulted a spate of doctors and psychiatrists, who prescribed charity work, bowling and bridge. If those failed, there were always tranquilizers to get her through her busy day.

A Nebraska housewife with a Ph.D. in anthropology whom Ms. Friedan interviewed told her:

"A film made of any typical morning in my house would look like an old Marx Brothers comedy. I wash the dishes, rush the older children off to school, dash out in the yard to cultivate the chrysanthemums, run back in to make a phone call about a committee meeting, help the youngest child build a blockhouse, spend fifteen minutes skimming the newspapers so I can be well-informed, then scamper down to the washing machines where my thrice-weekly laundry includes enough clothes to keep a primitive village going for an entire year. By noon I'm ready for a padded cell. Very little of what I've done has been really necessary or important. Outside pressures lash me though the day. Yet I look upon myself as one of the more relaxed housewives in the neighborhood."

"The Feminine Mystique" began as a survey Ms. Friedan conducted in 1957 for the 15th reunion of her graduating class at Smith. It was intended to refute a prevailing postwar myth: that higher education kept women from adapting to their roles as wives and mothers. Judging from her own capable life, Ms. Friedan expected her classmates to describe theirs as similarly well adjusted. But what she discovered in the women's responses was something far more complex, and more troubling -- a "nameless, aching dissatisfaction" that she would famously call "the problem that has no name."

When Ms. Friedan sent the same questionnaire to graduates of Radcliffe and other colleges, and later interviewed scores of women personally, the results were the same. The women's answers gave her the seeds of her book. They also forced her to confront the painful limitations of her own suburban idyll.

Bettye Naomi Goldstein was born on Feb. 4, 1921, in Peoria, Ill. Her father, Harry, was an immigrant from Russia who parlayed a street-corner collar-button business into a prosperous downtown jewelry store. Her gifted, imperious mother, Miriam, had been the editor of the women's page of the local newspaper before giving up her job for marriage and children. Only years later, when she was writing "The Feminine Mystique," did Ms. Friedan come to see her mother's cold, critical demeanor as masking a deep bitterness at giving up the work she loved.

Growing up brainy, Jewish, outspoken and, by the standards of the time, unlovely, Bettye was ostracized. She was barred from the fashionable sororities at her Peoria high school and rarely asked on dates. It was an experience, she would later say, that made her identify with people on the margins of society.

At Smith, she blossomed. For the first time, she could be as smart as she wanted, as impassioned as she wanted and as loud as she wanted, and for four happy years she was all those things. Betty received her bachelor's degree in 1942 -- by that timeshe had dropped the final "e," which she considered an affectation of her mother's -- and accepted a fellowship to the University of California, Berkeley, for graduate work in psychology.

At Berkeley, she studied with the renowned psychologist Erik Erikson, among others. She won a second fellowship, even more prestigious than the first, that would allow her to continue for a doctorate. But she was dating a young physicist who felt threatened by her success. He pressured her to turn down the fellowship, and she did, an experience she would later recount frequently in interviews. She also turned down the physicist, returning home to Peoria before moving to Greenwich Village in New York.

There, Ms. Friedan worked as an editor at The Federated Press, a small news service that provided stories to labor newspapers nationwide. In 1946, she took a job as a reporter with U. E. News, the weekly publication of the United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers of America.

In 1947, she married Carl Friedan, a theater director who later became an advertising executive. They started a family and moved to a rambling Victorian house in suburban Rockland County, N.Y.

Ms. Friedan, whose marriage would end in divorce in 1969, is survived by their three children, Daniel Friedan of Princeton, N.J.; Emily Friedan of Buffalo; and Jonathan Friedan of Philadelphia; a brother, Harry Goldstein, of Palm Springs, Calif., and Purchase, N.Y.; a sister, Amy Adams, of New York City; and nine grandchildren.

"The Feminine Mystique" had the misfortune to appear during a newspaper printers' strike. The reviews that appeared afterward ran the gamut from bewildered to outraged to cautiously laudatory. Some critics also felt that Ms. Friedan had insufficiently acknowledged her debt to Simone de Beauvoir, whose 1949 book, "The Second Sex," dealt with many of the same issues.

Writing in The New York Times Book Review in April 1963, Lucy Freeman called "The Feminine Mystique" a "highly readable, provocative book," but went on to question its basic premise, writing, of Ms. Friedan:

"Sweeping generalities, in which this book necessarily abounds, may hold a certain amount of truth but often obscure the deeper issues. It is superficial to blame the 'culture' and its handmaidens, the women's magazines, as she does. What is to stop a woman who is interested in national and international affairs from reading magazines that deal with those subjects? To paraphrase a famous line, 'The fault, dear Mrs. Friedan, is not in our culture, but in ourselves.' "

Among readers, however, the response to the book was so overwhelming that Ms. Friedan realized she needed more than words to address the condition of women's lives. After moving back to Manhattan with her family, she determined to start a progressive organization that would be the equivalent, as she often said, of an N.A.A.C.P. for women.

In 1966, Ms. Friedan and a group of colleagues founded the National Organization for Women. She was its president until 1970.

One of NOW's most visible public actions was the Women's Strike for Equality, held on Aug. 26, 1970, in New York and in cities around the country. In New York, tens of thousands of woman marched down Fifth Avenue, with Ms. Friedan in the lead. (Before the march, she made a point of lunching at Whyte's, a downtown restaurant formerly open to men only.)

Carrying signs and banners ("Don't Cook Dinner -- Starve a Rat Tonight!" "Don't Iron While the Strike Is Hot"), women of all ages, along with a number of sympathetic men, marched joyfully down the street to cheering crowds. The march ended with a rally in Bryant Park, behind the New York Public Library, with passionate speeches by Ms. Friedan, Ms. Steinem, Ms. Abzug and Kate Millett.

Not all of Ms. Friedan's ventures were as successful. The First Women's Bank and Trust Company, which she helped found in 1973, is no longer in business. Nor were even her indomitable presence and relentless energy enough to secure passage of the Equal Rights Amendment.

Though widely respected as a modern-day heroine, Ms. Friedan was by no means universally beloved, even -- or perhaps especially -- by members of the women's movement. She was famously abrasive. She could be thin-skinned and imperious, subject to screaming fits of temperament.

In the 1970's and afterward, some feminists criticized Ms. Friedan for focusing almost exclusively on the concerns of middle-class married white women and ignoring those of minorities, lesbians and the poor. Some called her retrograde for insisting that women could, and should, live in collaborative partnership with men.

Ms. Friedan's private life was also famously stormy. In her recent memoir, "Life So Far" (Simon & Schuster, 2000), she accused her husband of being physically abusive during their marriage, writing that he sometimes gave her black eyes, which she concealed with make-up at public events and on television.

Mr. Friedan, who died in December, repeatedly denied the accusations. In an interview with Time magazine in 2000, shortly after the memoir's publication, he called Ms. Friedan's account a "complete fabrication." He added: "I am the innocent victim of a drive-by shooting by a reckless driver savagely aiming at the whole male gender."

Ms. Friedan's other books include "It Changed My Life: Writings on the Women's Movement" (Random House, 1976); "The Second Stage" (Summit, 1981); and "The Fountain of Age" (Simon & Schuster, 1993).

The recipient of many awards and honorary degrees, she was a visiting professor at universities around the country, among them Columbia, Temple and the University of Southern California. In recent years, Ms. Friedan was associated with the Institute for Women and Work at Cornell University.

Despite all of her later achievements, Ms. Friedan would be forever known as the suburban housewife who started a revolution with "The Feminine Mystique." Rarely has a single book been responsible for such sweeping, tumultuous and continuing social transformation.

The new society Ms. Friedan proposed, founded on the notion that men and women were created equal, represented such a drastic upending of the prevailing social norms that over the years to come, she would be forced to explain her position again and again.

"Some people think I'm saying, 'Women of the world unite -- you have nothing to lose but your men,' " she told Life magazine in 1963. "It's not true. You have nothing to lose but your vacuum cleaners."

Correction: February 8, 2006, Wednesday An obituary on Monday and in some copies on Sunday about Betty Friedan, the pioneering feminist who wrote "The Feminine Mystique," misstated the residence of her sister, Amy Adams. It is Chapel Hill, N.C., not New York City.
61 2006-02-05 To the Editor:     Re ''When You Fly in First Class, It's Easy to Forget the Dots'' (Everybody's Business, Jan. 29):...
62 2006-02-05 A tenet of social psychology is that behavior is a function both of who the creature is and of the social/situational contexts in which it finds itself. A poignant example of this might be the ''temperamental'' behaviors that some of the giant Pac...
63 2006-02-05 The death toll is especially large for a local Roma community of just 570 people, and no one disputes the main source of pollution. All three refugee camps lie within 200 yards of three huge mounds of industrial waste, the byproduct of a lead smelting factory that operated from the 1920's until 2000.

Health specialists say children are particularly vulnerable to this kind of pollution. Soon after the Roma moved in, the United Nations realized that they were living on contaminated land. Several reports by the United Nations mission and the World Health Organization dating to 2000 recommended their immediate removal.

But the Roma remained in their wooden huts, built by aid agencies, and in a hodgepodge of metal and particle board shacks that they had put up themselves.

Now the mission is planning to move families from all three camps to refurbished army barracks, where it says they will be safe.

"The W.H.O. considers this the worst environmental disaster for children in the whole of Europe," said Gerry McWeeney, an environmental epidemiologist for the World Health Organization in Mitrovica and the author of a 2004 report on the effects of the poisoning. "There are around 100,000 to 130,000 people affected by this," she said.

It is hard to miss the two vast hills of reddish gray debris from which toxic dust blows across the north part of the city. Each holds tons of industrial waste. They are about 90 feet high and 500 yards long, and stretch out of the city through a valley. Water runs off the hills and streams into the River Ibar, where in summer children play and bathe. The third dump lies outside town.

Medical specialists say overall health conditions in the refugee camps make them even more vulnerable to contamination.

Camp residents do not have running water in their homes, so they have fewer opportunities to wash their hands and food, thereby increasing the risk of contamination.

"Their skin goes yellow," said Flanza Jahirovic, a 31-year-old mother who lives in one of the camps, said of the children. "They are often feeble and dizzy, and they just want to sleep."

Tests conducted last October by Klaus Dietrich-Runow, a German medical doctor and environmental specialist, showed that all the children tested had high lead levels, most dangerously so, and had high levels of antimony, arsenic, cadmium and manganese. "The levels of toxic metals like lead, arsenic, antimony and cadmium are the highest levels that have ever have been measured in human hair samples," Dr. Dietrich-Runow wrote via e-mail. His claim could not be independently verified.

Lead poisoning can stunt growth and cause irreversible brain and nerve damage, suppression of the immune system, anemia and renal failure. It can also cause speech, language and behavioral problems.

United Nations officials say the effects of lead poisoning among the Roma may have been compounded by an illegal lead trade in the camps, which involved melting down car batteries, a practice they say has been stopped.

In 2000, when the United Nations had been in Kosovo for a year, international officials seemed acutely aware of the dangers posed by lead poisoning.

The leader of the United Nations mission, Bernard Kouchner of France, a doctor and politician, ordered a military operation to close the smelter.

But since then, parts of the United Nations mission appear to have lost sight of the hazards.

Within the last three years, local authorities built a running track between refugee camps and the toxic mounds. A United Nations sign written in English, Serbian and Albanian at one end of the course, which joggers still use, says "Alley of Health."

Last August, international officials began a campaign to alert the Roma to the risks of lead poisoning, and in November work began on the former army barracks, though it is adjacent to two of the refugee camps and close to the toxic hills.

Asked why the mission could not have acted earlier, Remi Dourlot, a spokesman, said it had "other priorities," like establishing security in the region, and that unstable conditions might have made relocation impractical.

Officials working on the $1.6 million refurbishing of the barracks said the site would be washed down once a week with a fire truck to prevent lead dust from contaminating it.

The United Nations has also begun work on a $9.7 million project to rebuild the Roma community's original homes in southern Mitrovica.

Some health specialist and members of industry in the region say the barracks is an improvement, but that the underlying safety of the city is no better.

"The whole region is polluted," said Charles Carron-Brown, the manager of the Trepca Mines complex that runs the lead smelting factory, which continues some operations. "You won't find anywhere that isn't polluted." He said the United Nations planned to cover all three toxic mounds, but until funds were found, most of the city would remain polluted.

The Roma are not convinced that their health will be better in the barracks.

"They're telling us there will be less lead there, but I can't see the difference," said Latif Musurica, who noted that the new camp was just 164 feet from his current home.

Correction: February 9, 2006, Thursday An article on Sunday about lead poisoning among displaced Gypsies, or Roma, living in Kosovo refugee camps misstated the full name of a German physician who conducted tests on camp residents last October. He is Klaus-Dietrich Runow, not Klaus Dietrich-Runow.
64 2006-02-05 But General Bostick, 49, an engineer with a master's degree from Stanford who is known for his calm demeanor, still faces a daunting challenge. Last May, the Army retrained its recruiters on ethics after several were found to have cut corners to enlist unqualified soldiers. And for the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, the Army, the Army Reserve and the National Guard all fell short of their recruiting goals. The active-duty Army missed its target of 80,000 recruits by about 8 percent, its biggest shortfall since 1979.

Since then, the results have been more mixed. The Army reached its monthly targets for October, November and December. But in at least one of those months, General Bostick said, more than 10 percent of the recruits had scores on the military's aptitude test that were near the bottom of the scale -- more than double the annual 4 percent limit set by the Department of Defense.

The Army's monthly goals were smaller, too. Recruiters sent 2,697 fewer active-duty recruits to basic training from October to December than they did during that period in 2004. Its goals for summer have been increased to make up the difference.

David Segal, a military sociologist at the University of Maryland, said the Army was struggling to compete with colleges and with private-sector companies. Parents, too, are pushing their children away from a military career, fearing that they will be assigned to combat.

"Recruiters are having a tougher and tougher time," Professor Segal said. "The economy is growing, and there is more and more opposition being voiced by parents and at high schools."

General Bostick, who described his new job as "very tough," said he was optimistic about the Army's ability to find, recruit and enlist the 105,500 soldiers it needs this year for the Army and Reserve.

He said recruiters had already signed up half of the 10,450 active-duty soldiers the Army hoped to send to basic training in July, the month with the largest quota. Though at least 20 percent will drop out before boot camp, he said, it is a sign of "steady improvement" nationwide.

Most other branches of the military, including the Marines and the National Guard, have met or exceeded their recruiting targets.

General Bostick attributed the Army's progress primarily to 1,200 recruiters added last year. The Army accounts for 70 percent of the troops serving in Iraq, and about a third of its recruiters are now combat veterans, he said.

"There is valid concern by the parents and those that are being recruited about the war," he said in the hourlong interview. "So these veterans who are coming back and able to tell their story and talk about how well trained they were and how well led -- their experience in Iraq is really helping the environment."

General Bostick said he planned to give recruiters better leads and guidance. All new recruiters, for example, now receive a nine-page document offering suggested responses to thorny questions, like "Is the Army all about killing?" (Answer: "The Army is not about killing anyone, it is about supporting the United States, and when necessary, defending it at home and abroad.")

Fort Knox is the hub of these efforts. In the brick buildings that have been the recruiting command's headquarters since the mid-1990's, hundreds of soldiers and civilians try to figure out ways to inspire people to volunteer.

GoArmy.com, the Army's recruiting Web site, went live in February 1996 and is run from the main building here. General Bostick said chat rooms had become one of the command's most promising tools.

Each month, about 20,000 people read or post messages in the forums, according to Army figures. Nearly 50 civilian contractors at Fort Knox respond to their queries.

They work as late as 2 a.m. in a lecture hall stocked with new computers and telephone headsets. On a recent afternoon, several answered online questions about what to take to boot camp and which jobs were eligible for bonuses. A recruiter speaking Arabic tried to persuade someone on the telephone to become an Army linguist.

General Bostick said that the online recruiters identified about 1,700 people last year who were thinking about enlisting. Of these, 405 signed up, a percentage he said was far better than what recruiters could do making cold calls.

To help draw people to the Web site, General Bostick said, the Army must raise awareness of what it has to offer, both among teenagers and the people who influence their lives. According to the Army's advertising and media division, about 20 percent of the media budget now pays for appeals to parents on Home & Garden Television and the Food Network and through other outlets. Appeals via text message could start soon, possibly with a new Army slogan.

General Bostick said the Army was also expanding its relationship with Nascar, the National Hot Rod Association and the Professional Bull Riders Association. According to the plan, recruiters will visit schools and malls a few days before an event, offering free tickets and the chance to meet famous drivers or bull riders.

And there are other toys meant to attract, including the customized vehicles. The Army used to rely on simulated rock walls to spur interest, said Lt. Col. Mark V. Lathem, commander of the battalion that manages the fleet. "Now it's more like an Army version of 'Pimp My Ride.' "

At the building where the vehicles are designed and loaded, a black Hummer H2 with an Army logo had a high-end audiovisual system and three flat-screen monitors. Two of them showed Army footage from Iraq, accompanied by the Toby Keith song "American Soldier," and the third displayed images from an Xbox video game. A few feet away, an empty truck trailer was about to be transformed into an exhibit of the 21st-century soldier, with displays on the latest in underwear and night-vision goggles.

On the road, Colonel Lathem said, were the "aviation van," with the chassis of a helicopter attached to a computerized simulator, and the new Special Forces vehicle, which includes a simulated parachute drop. The trailers, Colonel Lathem said, cost about $1 million each.

The payoff for all of this is one piece of paper --a "lead card." At a busy event, about 50,000 people fill them out, giving names, addresses and phone numbers to the Army, Colonel Lathem said.

Gary M. Bishop, chief of the advertising and media division, said the Army also mailed about 10 million to 15 million lead cards to teenagers each year, their addresses pulled from Selective Service registrations and private databases bought by the Defense Department.

The cards are usually funneled to local recruiters. But last year, the Army began centralized screening at Fort Knox, with 35 civilians poring through 135,000 lead cards from April to September. About 86,000 were discarded because of errors or phony names or because the sender was not qualified to serve.

Still, the process yielded 273 new recruits. And the Army plans to expand the program.

But some of the officers who helped build the Army's sophisticated recruiting system say its influence may be limited. Col. David Slotwinksi, a former chief of staff for Army recruiting who retired in 2004, said the numbers and the quality of recruits were cause for concern.

"You're in a protracted conflict, and the only way to succeed is to build inside the nation a willingness to fight and sustain the course," Colonel Slotwinksi said.

General Bostick acknowledged the problems. "We have a tough mission," he said.

But, he added, "This is our job, and we're going to do it the best we can."
65 2006-02-05 WEINSTOCK - Lillian. 94, Pompano Beach, FL, January 29, 2006. Survived by herloving children, Leonard (Terry) Weinstock and Deborah (Martin) Bloch, her grandchildren, Kenneth (Jacqueline) Perlmutter, S. Michael Perlmutter, Lauren (Rob Widell) Wein...
66 2006-02-05 Most of us want a jacket to work out in -- not one that announces, in safety-cone colors, that we just worked out. The latest high-performance shells are subtly styled and easy to toss over a sweatshirt -- but substantial enough to stand on their own.

this layering shell makes the transition nicely from winter to spring with a waterproof gore-tex outer layer, a removable fleece lining, a double-zip front and a convertible collar. $1,435.

Lightweight and fashion-friendly, THIS garment features underarm mesh inserts and a fleece lining for cold mornings. $235.

From Rlx's Sailing Line, This Water-Repellent Nylon Jacket, Designed With The Sea In Mind, Has Stretch-Knit Panels And A Draw-Cord Hem. $225; Www.Polo.Com.

This Versatile Shell Features Gore-Tex Paired With Cyclofresh, A Fiber Technology That Uses A Sugar-Molecule Derivative To Trap Odors. $150; Www.Puma.Com.
67 2006-02-05 BEFORE Dr. Evil ventured back to Swinging 60's London in his -- insert air quotes here -- time machine to purloin a certain International Man of Mystery's mojo in the 1999 film comedy "Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me," and before Sam Beckett began jumping from body to body and era to era on NBC's popular "Quantum Leap" in 1989, James Darren was somersaulting through the centuries in a pair of very tight pants.

A handsome actor who achieved teen-idol status as the surf hunk Moondoggie in a trio of "Gidget" films, Mr. Darren -- wearing those form-fitting slacks and an olive green turtleneck -- played Dr. Tony Newman on a 1966 ABC series called "The Time Tunnel." Fifteen of the show's 30 episodes, plus an unbroadcast extended version of the pilot, are now available on four double-sided discs.

A big-budget enterprise by mid-60's standards despite its lack of costume changes, the series followed two eternally emoting scientists from Project Tic Toc who inadvertently -- was there ever another way? -- found themselves racing up and down what the show's stentorian announcer called "the infinite corridors of time." Robert Colbert (who later spent a decade as Stuart Brooks on "The Young and the Restless") went along for companionship as Dr. Doug Phillips, while the former Miss America Lee Meriwether, as a fellow scientist named Dr. Ann MacGregor, watched and fretted from back home in the present.

The series ran for only one season, making it the least successful of four fantastically implausible (but fondly remembered) shows created and produced between 1964 and 1970 by Irwin Allen. "Lost in Space" is now available on DVD; Volume I of "Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea" is due out later this month; "Land of the Giants" replays only in memory.

Later known as the master of such disaster films as "The Poseidon Adventure" and "The Towering Inferno," Mr. Allen infamously considered his TV series "running and jumping" shows. To his mind, the stories didn't need to make sense as long as those screens were packed with action, smoke and flying sparks. "Time Tunnel" embraced substantially less science and considerably more fiction than its competition that season, NBC's "Star Trek."
68 2006-02-05 To the Editor: Regardless of the fact that one of us is Cambodian-American, we were highly offended by the statement that ''Cambodians, it seems to me, just want to be considered human beings,'' which was part of your article. We are sure the auth...
69 2006-02-05 You've seen those canisters on the counter at the liquor store or the diner, bearing a picture of a sad-eyed skeletal dog asking for a contribution. And you've probably asked: Am I supposed to believe that my 35 cents is not going into the pocket ...
70 2006-02-05 My dad kept his teams feeling alive by creating placards and posters and drinking glasses printed with team statistics from the previous year. I was especially fond of the glasses, wide-barreled with gold-painted rims. Dad would order these by the caseload and have them shipped to players' homes. He figured that every time a player relaxed with a drink, Dad could continue to rouse with inspiring facts.

It wasn't until years later that I realized that most of these "facts" were a bit skewed. In 1968, for instance, when Dad was coaching the Los Angeles Rams, the glass read: "Rams Made N.F.L. History -- 14 Consecutive League Wins." Fourteen victories, that is, if you included the preseason games. The regular-season record was 10-3-1. I reasoned, as the players probably did, that Dad wanted us to believe that every game mattered, whether it was an intrasquad scrimmage or an inconsequential Pro Bowl. I still have an unopened box of 1968 glasses. I know how years of dishwashing can scrub away the glory, how even the blatant clarity of hindsight can make the luster fade.

When we lost Super Bowl VII, Dad didn't design any glasses. He had to think of another way to motivate the team. To do this, he considered his own mistakes. In the two weeks before the game, Dad had prepared his players for all possible events on the field. He even went so far as to chart the course of the sun across the Coliseum from 12:30 to 3:30, to study how sunlight and shadows would fall during that long afternoon. Off the field, Dad made sure there were no Hollywood distractions by housing the Redskins several freeways away in Santa Ana. Wives were sequestered an entire county and area code away, at a hotel in West Los Angeles.

But in retrospect, Dad felt he hadn't prepared his players mentally. After the game, several of them admitted that the team had seemed emotionally run-down. We were flat, they confessed. And for this, Dad took full responsibility because he hadn't given the team the usual "this is the biggest game of your life" speech. He had figured, Gee, didn't they know it was the biggest game of their life?

That off-season, my father made up a placard that read: "The Team Is Never Up." It was his way of letting the guys off free, to head into the 1973 season unburdened and unafraid. He put the placard on his desk at Redskin Park, where it would remind him, daily, of his error.

That spring, when the team returned to work, there were no signs of Super Bowl VII at Redskin Park, just the team photo from the 1972 N.F.C. Championship. The picture was taken one week before the Super Bowl, just days after the team had shut down the Dallas Cowboys on New Year's Eve. Game balls were given to each player and assistant coach bearing the score of the game: Redskins 26, Cowboys 3. And so the team began brushing off the Super Bowl loss as something not as big as it was made out to be. In time, we came to believe that the N.F.C. title game was our Super Bowl.

The Dolphins are still celebrating their Super Bowl. Whenever a team dares to challenge their flawless record, a few of them ceremoniously set champagne on ice. As soon as the team succumbs to defeat, the guys pop corks and raise a toast to commemorate their place in N.F.L. history.

For years, the way I've managed to swallow that climactic letdown is by recalling a game that I'm surprised my father failed to ever mention. It was in the preseason, Aug. 31, 1972, at R.F.K. Stadium, the very last game the Dolphins lost before that perfect season.

The Stakes Jennifer Allen is the author of the memoir "Fifth Quarter: The Scrimmage of a Football Coach's Daughter."
71 2006-02-05 We loved "Survivor," but were kind of embarrassed about loving it, and Mr. Probst embodied everything shaming about the show. He was corny, with his dimpled pretty-boy looks and his gigantic torch snuffer. He didn't seem connected to the made-up rituals. He just stood there in his shorts and mouthed the lines: "Survivors, go!" and "The tribe has spoken." And he barely even pretended to believe the fiction that he ran the game. In that first season Mr. Probst just seemed to be a jolly campmate who was never voted off.

But in the second season he became cooler, more dignified. He stopped making friends with the contestants and started asking them questions. He became what he is now: a methodical, meticulous interviewer, more police investigator than talk-show host. He has a knack for asking just the right question and then, of all things, actually listening to the answer.

Mr. Probst's agile questioning challenged my assumption that he was a mere mouthpiece. Indeed, Mark Burnett, the show's creator, explained that Mr. Probst is not fed his material. "Jeff gets some information about what's going on, but he doesn't need to know much," Mr. Burnett said. "He likes to figure out on his own what's going on. Some tribal councils might last one-and-a-half to two hours while Jeff gets the talk to where he wants it to be. Jeff is very interested in people and things, and that comes across."

It was during the Pearl Islands season -- the fall of 2004 -- that Mr. Probst really came into his own. For starters, he had great material to work with. That season saw some of "Survivor's" biggest personalities ever: the piratic Rupert, the slimy Jonny Fairplay, the sport-coat-clad lawyer Andrew Savage, and the buff-yet-exhausted Ostin.

It was in his exchanges with Jonny Fairplay and Ostin that Mr. Probst's new steeliness came into view. At tribal council, he asked, "What are you basing your vote on?" Jonny Fairplay, with his tangle of bleached curls and his weasel's face, answered, "Whatever the astrological signs tell me." And then something happened that you rarely see on television: pure silence. Mr. Probst stopped and just stared at Jon. All of a sudden Mr. Probst looked like an immunity idol himself. Perfectly still. Perfectly comfortable with the quiet and with the tension he was causing. Finally he asked, "Is that a respectful way to treat somebody you've lived with for 12 days?" When he sent the group home from tribal council that night, he looked as though he was sick of the sight of them.

A couple weeks later Ostin decided to quit. A big, brawny, gym-built guy, he said his body -- which he referred to, unfortunately, as his "temple" -- just couldn't take it anymore: "My temple has nothing to offer me right now." At tribal council, Mr. Probst duly snuffed Ostin's torch but didn't give him the respect of the traditional goodbye. Instead he said, "Ostin, per your wishes, go home." Then he turned to the remaining group: "With all due respect to Ostin, people work too damn hard to get in this game and fight to stay alive." Mr. Probst's message was clear: Don't disrespect this game.

Those episodes seemed to kick off a new era. Mr. Probst isn't just a host anymore -- he has become the game's guardian. He has no patience for people who, as they say in England, lower the tone. He still roots for players and is excited by a good challenge, but as often as not he conducts tribal councils in the key of I've Had It With You People. Sometimes he throws in a half-laughing dose of Utter Disbelief.

And with good reason. "Survivor" is now in its 12th installment, and contestants still arrive not knowing how to make fire. They still haven't thought about how to build a shelter, or what they'll do if an alliance swings against them. They still boss each other around and pick ridiculous fights. It makes it hard to identify with them. But "Survivor" is not a show about contestants anyway -- anyone you might root for is likely to be booted off the island. It encourages a cooler, more detached way of viewing. You savor the characters like a cannibal contemplating a feast: Who's next?

Non-"Survivor" people who say, "Oh, it's all just done with editing" are missing the point. "Survivor" fans love the editing. We love the -- forgive me -- artistry of the show. We love the twists, the ingenious casting and the deprivations. The producers are like the Greek gods, sitting on Mount Olympus, setting dramas and scenarios and defeats into motion. As we sit at home trying to guess what's going to happen next, we feel closer to these gods than we do to the actual contestants.

Mr. Probst is in a unique position. He's a producer, one of the gods, but he's also a viewer like us. Like the gods, his job is to protect his realm. Like the viewers, he just cannot believe what he's seeing. His gift is that he has found a way to project both these personae at the same time: He's simultaneously haughty and fascinated. This weird hybrid makes him the best reality-show host on television, though to some that might sound more like an insult than a compliment. At any rate, he has one thing nailed down: These days he always wears pants.
72 2006-02-05 To the Editor:     We are very fortunate to have a number of exceptional medical facilities in Westchester and nearby in New York City. Your article about the Open Door Family Medical Center (''Rx for the Poor: Care Within Reach,'' Jan. 29) highli...
73 2006-02-05 APPLETON--John Johnston. 81, on January 30, at home in NYC. Editor, writer, friend of all who crossed his path. Survived by his wife of 43 years, Myra; a brother, William W.; a sister, Tina Bishop; various nephews, nieces, cousins and godchildren....
74 2006-02-05 It was a dismal week for the stock market, which declined on concerns about even more interest rate increases and on disappointing earnings reports from some highflying companies, including Google and Amazon.com.      The interest-rate worries ste...
75 2006-02-05 DANIEL P. BUTTAFUOCO, a personal injury lawyer in Woodbury, often provides his clients with more than legal advice. Mr. Buttafuoco, an elder in the Bethpage Assembly of God and a seminary student as well, also offers pastoral care.     ''When peop...
76 2006-02-05 On a cold East Harlem morning in 1966, when I was 15, my new best friend Stinky and I ran inside an old tenement building to shoot up. After scaling six flights, we arrived at the landing that led to the roof. Our day's first stab at ghetto kids' roulette was about to begin. We were gleefully unfolding the pouch containing our heroin and paraphernalia when trouble arrived. The faint sound of footsteps activated our "uh-oh" meter. As the sound grew louder, Stinky and I looked at each other before harmonizing out loud, "The po-lice!"

We made a break for the door, anticipating an activity almost as scary as a bust -- roof jumping -- but it was nailed shut. Trapped, we discarded our razor-blade-size cellophane packets of poison in the void of the spiraling stairwell, thinking in terms of a "not mine" defense. Looking down, we saw a strong arm in cop blue extend itself and turn its palm upward. And then we watched one packet flutter right into the palm of the dusky hand.

Cornered like rats, we were soon confronted by a young, six-footish, well-built African-American known on dope-fiend row as Mike the Cop. He patted the club in his hand. "First things first -- I'm not going to have to use this, am I?" he asked. Stinky and I vigorously shook our heads in the negative. We were powerless children.

I was already on juvenile probation, so everything that came out of Mike the Cop's mouth sounded to me like "incarceration." This bust would buy me three to five years of jail mail. I started to imagine myself in my impending prison garb, with a long line of numbers on the chest. Stinky was in even worse shape. Having just turned 16, he had crossed the line between juvenile and hard core.

Mike ordered us up against the wall. After picking up the paraphernalia, he commanded us to face him. But then I had a fear-driven impulse: I got down on my knees and started singing "Mammy." I sang for my freedom with the passion of the great Al Jolson during his Winter Garden peak. From an early age, I had been forced to respect education, and the work was now paying a surprising dividend, for I was able to enunciate, articulate and gesticulate beyond the ghetto pale. I could feel Stinky's jealousy as Mike's attentiveness increased.
77 2006-02-05 What a great article (Charles Siebert, Jan. 22)! We have come a long way since Jane Goodall was ridiculed for giving names to the chimpanzees she lived with and observed. It is affirming to know that scientists are learning about animals that are ...
78 2006-02-05 "We're going through a long-term recovery from stupid oversold levels," said Fred Sturm, who manages the Ivy Global Natural Resources fund. "Prices of many of these commodities were unsustainably low." In the late 1990's and early 2000's, he pointed out, gold and oil traded at nearly 20-year lows after having fallen by more than two-thirds.

The depressed prices helped to force commodity producers to merge -- Alcoa and Reynolds in aluminum, for example, and Exxon and Mobil in energy -- and to take other steps to improve their finances. That drove the first move in what he expects to be a three-stage rally in commodity markets.

The last stage, he predicted, will be "a true scarcity phase when Mother Nature slaps us in the face and grabs our attention and tells us we're running out of commodities like oil when people keep wanting more."

But that's well in the future, Mr. Sturm said. Right now, "we're in a big fat middle phase where commodity prices are expected to remain above their average ranges but will not continue to trend higher," he said. "We expect them to modify from recent levels in energy and in some of the metals, including copper."

He described his view of commodity stocks during this stable period as "persistent but moderated bullishness" and said valuations "are still very attractive, even if earnings don't continue to grow at the same supercharged pace" as in recent months.

A bit more than half of Mr. Sturm's fund is invested in energy suppliers, including ChevronTexaco, Thai Oil and Massey Energy, an American coal mining company. For the last six months, he said, he has been allocating more of the fund's $2.5 billion in assets to producers of precious metals as a play on growth in developing markets.

"Gold remains a form of money, and in much of the emerging world where they don't trust what comes out of the A.T.M. machine, people may buy an extra gold bangle and store it as money," Mr. Sturm said. He said, too, that energy producers in the Middle East and elsewhere were prone to buying gold with surplus cash, of which they have plenty these days.

His bet on precious metals is also a hedge against unforeseen negative events. "Gold is the best form of insurance when you're not sure what you're insuring against," he explained. Among the miners of precious metals in his portfolios are Buenaventura in Peru and Impala Platinum in South Africa.

John Hill, an analyst at Citigroup, says he also thinks that the rally in gold has further to go. He has told clients that prices have continued to climb against an economic backdrop often associated with weakness for the metal, including rising interest rates, controlled inflation and a stronger dollar.

"We continue to be positive on gold," he wrote, citing "healthy underlying supply-demand fundamentals in the form of Indian fabrication, Chinese retail investment and recycled Middle Eastern petrodollar flows."

Citigroup's analysts have buy ratings on Newmont Mining and Barrick Gold and they are neutral on another large North American producer, Placer Dome. They also recommend buying Alcoa, United States Steel and the specialty steel maker Nucor. Other prominent components of Mr. Sturm's portfolio are Aracruz Celulose and Suzano, the Brazilian pulp and paper companies; Nalco, an American water treatment company; and Companhia Vale do Rio Doce, or CVRD, a Brazilian miner of base metals.

Mr. Sturm highlighted one segment -- chemical making -- that benefits when prices of other commodities fall. Energy is a major cost in chemical production, and with energy prices due to moderate, in his opinion, the chemical makers could thrive.

He is especially optimistic about suppliers of industrial gases. "Companies may enjoy stronger profitability and an ability to pay down debt" for the next two years as prices increase for the gases they manufacture, he said. Shares of companies like Praxair, Air Liquide and Air Products and Chemicals "are more attractive than they may appear." The outlook for Praxair appears so bright that one investor who seldom buys commodity producers, Rick Drake, co-manager of the ABN Amro Growth fund, keeps it in his portfolio.

Mr. Drake shuns commodity stocks. "They tend to be cyclical companies," he said, "and our focus is on consistent, sustainable growth through all parts of the cycle."

"They do well when prices skyrocket," he added, "then eventually someone comes along and builds up supply, the price comes down and companies get hurt."

Praxair's performance is not nearly as volatile, he said. It is a basic materials company producing hydrogen, and Mr. Drake expects its use to expand. "The hydrogen business has been real strong because of oil," he said, "not because oil prices are higher, but because environmental laws are such that when you get low-grade crude oil, you need more hydrogen to refine it."

Hydrogen also produces efficiencies in steel making, Mr. Drake noted, and is used in clean rooms for, among other things, semiconductor production. "It is more of a play on industrial production" than commodity price inflation, he said, describing Praxair as "a very steady, consistent growth company."

STEADY growth is desirable, but investors are often willing to take a chance on companies with more volatile earnings streams if they believe they can catch the upswing. Gil Knight, a senior portfolio manager at Gartmore, contends that the rally in commodity prices is robust enough to warrant significant exposure to the sector, although he also worries that prices may have moved ahead too fast.

Mr. Knight has long held shares of oil drilling and exploration companies, such as Halliburton, Ensco International, Southwestern Energyand Range Resources, but he warned against following his lead.

"I wouldn't buy any of these stocks up here," he said. "They're in nosebleed territory." Still, he said, "in terms of percentage gains versus other industries, I don't think they're going to do as badly as people think."

He finds greater opportunity in other industries. He said he added to his position in Freeport-McMoRan Copper and Gold in January, when the stock dipped slightly amid allegations that the company had inappropriate ties to the Indonesian military. Its shares have risen about 50 percent in the last six months.

His other favorites include Joy Global, a manufacturer of mining equipment that he called "a fantastic little company," and two suppliers of cement and other basics, Florida Rock and Vulcan Materials.

He agreed that commodity prices would be supported by strength in emerging economies. "If you pay attention to growth," Mr. Knight said, "you have to stick with energy stocks and probably some commodity stocks this year."
79 2006-02-05 Her attacker is in critical condition. Win is careful what he tells her. It is, to say the least, a highly unusual situation. She is accustomed to asking the State Police anything she wants and having nothing withheld from her. She is the district attorney, is in charge, is programmed to demand details and get them.

"Ms. Lamont," Sammy says respectfully, "as you know, he had a gun, and Win here did what he had to do. Things happen."

But that's not what she's asking. She looks at Win, holds his gaze remarkably well considering that just hours ago he saw her nude, lashed to her bed.

"What do you know about him," she poses it not as a question but a command.

"This much," Win says. "Your office prosecuted him in juvenile court about two months ago."

"Possession of marijuana, crack. Judge 'Let 'em Loose' Lane gave him a reprimand."

"The prosecutor certainly wasn't me. I've never seen him before. What else?"

"Tell you what," Win says, "how about letting us get our job done first, then I'll tell you anything I can."

"No," she says. "It won't be what you can. It will be what I ask."

"But for now . . . ," Win starts to say.

"I got a question." It is Sammy who says this from his remote position near the wall. "About your getting home last night."

His ruddy face is grim, something in his eyes. Maybe it's embarrassment. Maybe talking to the district attorney after she's been through something like this somehow makes him a voyeur. Lamont ignores him, ignores his question.

"I had dinner with you," she says to Win. "I got in my car and drove back to the office to finish up a few things, then drove straight home. Because I didn't have my keys, I went around to the back of the house, put my code into the key box, got out the spare key and was unlocking the back door when suddenly a hand clamped over my mouth and someone I couldn't see said, 'One sound, you're dead.' He pushed me into the house."

Lamont does a fine job reciting the facts. Her assailant, now identified as Roger Baptista of East Cambridge, an address not far from the court building where Lamont works, forced her up to her bedroom, began yanking electrical cords from lamps, from the clock radio. Then her home phone rang. She didn't answer it. Then her cellphone rang. She didn't answer it.

Her cellphone rang again, and she thought fast, said it was her boyfriend, he was getting worried, might show up, so Baptista told her to answer the phone and if she tried anything he'd blow her head off and then kill her boyfriend, kill everybody, and she answered. She had the brief, peculiar conversation with Win. She says she ended the call and Baptista forced her to undress and tied her to the bedposts. He raped her. Then put his pants back on.

"Why didn't you resist?" Sammy asks her as delicately as possible.

"He had a gun." She looks at Win. "I had no doubt he would use it if I resisted, probably would use it, regardless. When he finished with me. I did what I could to control the situation."

She hesitates, her eyes cutting away from him, says: "Meaning, I told him to do what he wanted, acted as if I wasn't frightened. Or repulsed. Did what he wanted. Said what he told me to say." She hesitates. "As calm and noncombative as I could muster under the circumstances. I, uh, I said it wasn't necessary to tie me up. I, well, I worked with cases like this all the time, understood them, knew he had his reasons. I, well, I.. . . "

The small room echoes with the ensuing silence, and it is the first time Win has ever seen Lamont's face turn red. He suspects he knows exactly what she did to stall Baptista, to calm him, to connect with him in the remote hope he would let her live.

"Maybe you acted like you wanted it a little," Sammy suggests. "Hey, women do it all the time, make the rapist think it's O.K., they're good in bed, fake an orgasm and even ask the guy to come back another time like it's a date or.. . . "

"Out!" Lamont fires at him, pointing her finger. "Get out!"

He leaves the room, leaves Win alone with her, not his first choice. Considering he critically injured her assailant, it would be preferable and prudent to interview her with at least one witness present.

"Who is this animal?" Lamont asks. "Who? And do you think it's a goddamn coincidence he decided to show up at the house the same night my keys mysteriously disappeared? Who is he?"

"That's not what I'm asking."

"When's the last time you saw your keys?" Win says. "You lock up with them when you left for work this morning? Actually, yesterday morning."

She is silent for a moment, then, "I didn't come home that night."

"Where were you?"

"I stayed with a friend. Left there for work in the morning. After work I had dinner with you, checked by my office. That's the chronology."

"You mind telling me who you stayed with?"

"I'm not the one who committed a crime." She stares coldly at him.

"Monique, I assume your alarm was set when you unlocked the door with your spare key," Win pointedly says. "Baptista clamps his hand over your mouth as you're unlocking the door. So what about the alarm after that?"

"He told me if I didn't disarm it he'd kill me."

"No panic code that silently alerts the police?"

"Oh for God's sake. And you would think of that if it were you? See what security precautions you revert to when someone's got a gun to the back of your head."

"You know anything about a can of gasoline and some rags found by your back door, in the bushes?"

"You and I need to have a very important conversation," she says to him.

Sykes drives her personal car, a '79 blue VW Rabbit, through the Old City, as Knoxville's historic downtown is called.

She passes Barley's Taproom and Pizzeria, the Tonic Grill, deserted and dark, then a construction site that was shut down the other day when a backhoe dug up bones that turned out to be cow, the site a slaughterhouse and stockyard in a long-ago life. Her uneasiness, the jitters as she calls them, gets worse the closer she gets to where she's going. She sure hopes Win's insistence that she track down the Vivian Finlay case records immediately is really urgent enough to merit her waking up the academy director, then the chief of the Knoxville Police Department, next several other people with the Criminal Investigative Division and Records, who couldn't find the case, only its accession number, KPD893-85.

Last and most unpleasant of all, Sykes woke up the former detective Jimmy Barber's widow, who sounded drunk, and asked what her late husband might have done with his old files, paperwork, memorabilia, et cetera, when he retired and packed up his office at headquarters.

All that junk's in the basement. What you people think he's hiding down there, Jimmy Hoffla? The damn Da Vin-shay code?

I sure am sorry to bother you, Ma'am. But we're trying to locate some old records, careful what she said, mindful that Win made it clear something unusual was going on.

I don't know what's got such a bug up y'all's.. . . It's 3 damn o'clock in the morning! Mrs. Barber complained over the phone, swearing, slurring, nasty.

In what the locals call Shortwest Knoxville, the city begins to fray around the edges, disintegrating into housing projects before it improves a little, not much, about two miles west of downtown. Sykes parks in front of a small rancher, vinyl siding, the yard a mess, the only house with empty supercans haphazardly parked near the street because Mrs. Barber is too lazy to roll them back to the house, it seems. The neighborhood has very few streetlights and a lot of souped-up gaudy old cars -- Cadillacs, a Lincoln painted purple, a Corvette with those stupid spinning hubcaps. The garbage-rides of dirt bags, drug dealers, no-account kids. Sykes is mindful of the Glock .40-caliber pistol in the shoulder holster under her jacket. She follows the sidewalk and rings the bell.

"Who is it?" a voice slurs from the other side of the door.

A burglar chain rattles. A deadbolt lock snaps free. The door opens, and a cheap-looking woman with dyed blond hair and makeup smudges under her eyes steps aside to let Sykes in.

"Mrs. Barber," Sykes politely says. $(3$)I sure appreciate.. . . "

"I don't get what all the fuss is about, but go on." Her housecoat is buttoned crooked, eyes bloodshot, smells like booze. "The basement's that-a-way," she indicates with a nod, fumbles to relock the door, has a very loud voice with a very strong twang. "Rummage through his junk all you want. You can load it in a truck and haul it the hell away for all I care."

"I won't be needing to load it in a truck," Sykes says. "I just need to look through some police files he may have had in his office once."

"I'm going back to bed," Mrs. Barber says.

Lamont seems to have forgotten where she is.

It crosses Win's mind that she's delusional, believes she's in her big office surrounded by her big glass collection, maybe in one of her big-ticket designer suits, sitting at her big glass desk instead of in a hospital gown, in a plastic chair, inside a hospital examination room. She acts as if she and Win were doing their usual thing, working a high-profile case, a bad one destined for a lot of complications and press.

"I'm not sure you're hearing me," she says to Win as a knock sounds on the shut door.

"Just a minute." He gets up to answer it.

It's Sammy, pokes his head in, quietly says, "Sorry."

Win steps out into the corridor, pulls the door shut. Sammy hands him this morning's Boston Globe, the local section. The headline across the top of the front page is big and bold:

"Four things you should know," Sammy says. "First, your name's all over this thing, a damn road map for how you're supposedly going to solve the governor's whodunit. More accurate, her whodunit" -- he looks at the shut door -- "since he's delegated it to her. Good luck if the killer's still out there and reads all this. Second, well the second thing's sure as hell not good."

"Baptista just died. To state the obvious, now we don't get to talk to him. Third, I went through his clothes, found a thousand bucks in hundred-dollar bills in his back pocket."

"Plain white envelope, no writing on it. Bills new looking, you know, crisp. Not folded or nothing. I called Huber at home. The labs are going to process them right away, look for prints."

"The media's found out about.. . . " he again nods toward the shut door. "There's like three TV trucks and a crowd of reporters out there in the parking lot, and it isn't even daylight yet."

Lamont is sitting in the same plastic chair. It occurs to him she's got nothing to wear unless she can handle the warm-up suit she put on before he drove her to the hospital. After the assault, she couldn't shower, he didn't have to give her instructions, she knows the routine. She still hasn't showered, and it's not a subject he is entirely comfortable bringing up.

"The press has found out," he says, sitting back down on the stool. "I need to get you out of here without them ambushing you. I'm sure you know you can't go back to your house right now."

"He was going to burn it down," she states.

The gas can was full. It certainly wasn't left there by her yard man.

"He was going to kill me and burn down my house." A steady, firm voice, the D.A. working the case as if she were talking about some other victim. "Why? To make my death look like an accident. To make it look like I burned up in my house. He's no beginner."

"Depends on whether it was his idea," Win says. "Or if someone gave him instructions. In any event, disguising a homicide with fire isn't very reliable. Most likely, the autopsy would have revealed soft-tissue injury, the bullet and possible damage to cartilage, bone. Bodies don't completely burn up in house fires. You know that."

He thinks about the money in Baptista's pocket, something telling him it's not a good idea to give that detail to Lamont just yet.

"I need you to stay here," she says, tightly gripping the blanket she holds around herself. "Forget the lady in Tennessee, what's her name. We need to find out who's behind this. Not just some little nobody piece of.. . . Maybe someone else who put him up to it."

"Huber's already getting the labs mobilized.. . . "

"How does he know about it?" she blurts out. "I haven't told.. . . " She stops short, her eyes wide. "He's not going to get away with this," and she's talking about Baptista again. "This is one case that isn't going to be.. . .I want you in charge of it. We're going to bury him."

He resists the obvious pun, says, "Monique, he's dead."

"Justified or not, struggle or not, I killed him. It was a good shooting. But you know what happens. Your office can't investigate it alone, will either have to transfer the case to another D.A.'s office or bring in the Boston homicide unit. Not to mention Internal Affairs doing its thing. Not to mention the autopsy and every other test known to man. I'll be put on administrative duties for a while."

"I want you on this right now."

"Not even a mental-health day? That's nice."

"Go drink a few beers with the stress unit. I don't want to hear about your so-called mental health." Her face is livid now, her eyes dark holes of hate, as if he were the one who attacked her. "If I don't get a mental-health day, I'll be damned if you do."

Her change in demeanor is startling, unnerving.

"Maybe you don't grasp the magnitude of what just happened," he says. "I see it all the time with other victims."

"I'm not a victim. I was victimized." Just as suddenly, she is the D.A. again, the strategist, the politician. "This has to be handled precisely right or you know what I'll be known for? The gubernatorial candidate who was raped."

"Any crime, any time, including mine," she says.

Next week: Lamont takes her story to the press.

THE FUNNY PAGES: III: SUNDAY SERIAL Previous chapters are online at www.nytimes.com/funnypages.
80 2006-02-05 The lounge where bettors congregate at Caesars is vast and thriving; six jumbo TV screens tower above the betting counter. Tucked behind all this is Esposito's windowless office, decked with sports memorabilia from his native Chicago. He is monitoring today's games on his own TV sets, seven small and aging models. Without checking his computer, Esposito knows full well which teams need to win today for Caesars to make money. How do things look so far? "As you can see," he says, grinning, "I'm not under my desk, and I haven't had to use the defibrillator today."

The most certain way for a bookmaker to turn a profit is to balance his book -- that is, to set a point spread that produces an equal number of dollars wagered on both sides of the line. Since only losers pay the house a 10 percent fee (known as the vigorish, or vig) on top of wagers, a balanced book guarantees the house a 5 percent gain. The conventional wisdom holds that bookmakers set point spreads to achieve this balance. "It's a myth when they say that every game is balanced," Esposito says. "If we could do that on every game, we would win every game, but it's impossible to do. The point spread is the equalizer, but you still can't talk the public into betting one side or the other."

The reason the public can't be talked into betting a particular side, at least not too often, is that the public has biases. For every bettor smart enough to stick to home underdogs, there are 5 or 10 bettors who systematically prefer favorites or who underestimate the impact of home-field advantage. (It isn't clear why bettors prefer favorites, but such a tendency characterizes most betting against a spread.) Then there are the bettors who disproportionately take the "over" in an over-under bet (in which a bettor wagers on the total number of points scored in a game), presumably because, when it's time to watch the game you've bet on, it's a lot more fun to root for points to be scored than for points to not be scored.

So does Esposito exploit those biases to increase his winnings? "But I don't know when the public's wrong, I really don't," he says. "That's a myth, too. I hear that all the time: 'You know who's going to win.' I wish I did."

In determining where to set the opening line, and when to adjust it, Esposito works hard to read public sentiment. One good clue is when a team's jersey starts to spike in popularity among Caesars customers. (This season it was the Cincinnati Bengals and the Chicago Bears.) He notes which teams, despite their success, fail to become "public" teams. (The Seattle Seahawks and the Carolina Panthers.) But the most valuable tool is what Esposito calls "booking to faces" -- that is, monitoring the betting counter to note which bettors are placing which bets. "If someone comes in, his rich uncle died and left a gazillion dollars, and he wants to bet $100,000 on the line, we probably won't change the line," he says. "But if we get a $5,000 bet from a handicapper we know to be really smart, we may well move it."

By Esposito's estimate, about 20 percent of the money bet on football comes from sophisticated bettors -- the "sharp guys" -- with the remainder

coming from a group known industrywide as the squares. The trick is to set a line that will satisfy both constituencies and make the casino lots of money.

Unfortunately, Esposito couldn't open up his books to show us just how this plays out at Caesars. (Transparency has its limits.) But a different set of data, taken from a handicapping contest run by the online casino CaribSports.com, can address the same issue. In these data, 285 bettors made more than 20,000 wagers on N.F.L. games. What do these data show?

The 285 bettors exhibited the typical preferences mentioned above -- a strong bias toward favorites and a weaker one toward visiting teams. The bookmaker, meanwhile, didn't merely acknowledge these biases and balance the book down the middle; it appears that the bookmaker strategically set point spreads to exploit these biases.

How does this work? Let's say that a bookmaker is handicapping a game between the Broncos and the Pittsburgh Steelers. He first studies every conceivable element of the game: strengths and weaknesses, momentum, injuries, tendencies, weather forecast, etc. He then decides that the true line -- that is, a line that he figures will give each team a 50 percent chance of winning the bet -- happens to be Denver minus 7 points. But because of bettor bias, perhaps as much as 80 percent of the money will inevitably flow to the favorite. So what if the bookie sets the line a little higher, at 9 points? Denver is still likely to draw the majority of the wagering, but its chances of winning the bet are now slightly less than 50 percent. The bookie has thus managed to tempt the majority of the wagering toward an outcome that is unlikely, even if only slightly, to happen. Over time, this pattern will yield the bookie a gross profit margin 20 to 30 percent higher than if he had simply balanced the wagering. In other words, why should a bookie play for the safe 10 percent vig when he can play it only slightly less safe and make much more money?

Chuck Esposito, though he is too smart to come out and say so, seems to be doing precisely the same thing at Caesars. What he will admit is that he doesn't mind if the wagering on a given game comes in at 80-20 instead of 50-50, as long as he thinks that Caesars is on the right side of the imbalance.

the super bowl, meanwhile, is an entirely different beast. A look at the past reveals this interesting anomaly: whereas only one-tenth of regular-season N.F.L. games have a final point spread in the double digits, fully one-third of the past Super Bowls (13 out of 39) had double-digit point spreads. This is especially surprising since the Super Bowl matches the best team from each conference, whereas regular games often pit a good team against a poor one.

What does this yawning gap mean? It suggests that faced with the risk of wiping out a season's profits, bookmakers play it safe on Super Bowl Sunday. Unlike a typical N.F.L. game, the Super Bowl gives a bookie incentive to balance his books and simply pocket the vig. To do so, he needs to inflate the spread against the favorite even more than usual, bringing in more underdog money and making the odds of the favorite's covering the bet even lower than usual.

A strategy of consistently betting the underdog has not done so well in past Super Bowls, paying off only 17 times in 39 years (the favorite covered the spread 19 times, and there were three pushes). But a small sample set should not get in the way of a larger truth: the economics of bookmaking suggest that betting the underdog today remains the single best bet of the year.

The Wager Stephen J. Dubner and Steven D. Levitt are the authors of "Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything." For more information on the academic research behind this article, go to www.freakonomics.com.
81 2006-02-05 The state's two aquariums swapped sharks on Wednesday. The Maritime Aquarium at Norwalk traded two juvenile sand tiger sharks for Veronica, Mystic Aquarium's hulking 9-foot-long, 210-pound sand tiger.     Mystic Aquarium needed to find a new home ...
82 2006-02-05 To the Editor: Having just returned from Cambodia ourselves, we concur with Matt Gross's article ''Why Is Everyone Going to Cambodia?'' (Jan. 22) that despite their hardships, the Cambodians are ''some of the sweetest people you'll ever meet.'' Th...
83 2006-02-05 To the Editor: Having just returned from Cambodia ourselves, we concur with Matt Gross's article ''Why Is Everyone Going to Cambodia?'' (Jan. 22) that despite their hardships, the Cambodians are ''some of the sweetest people you'll ever meet.'' Th...
84 2006-02-05 Ms. Meeropol said of her grandparents, "I don't know what they did, but I know they couldn't get a fair trial, that the death penalty was wrong, and that they weren't guilty of what they were convicted of."

Suppose Soviet archives conclusively revealed that her grandfather was a spy?

"It's not something I've spent much time thinking about," she replied. "What I take from my understanding of them is a sense of strength, resistance, being involved in political struggle. I think I have a pretty fully formed opinion of what they were like as people. It's not something that's dependent on Russian sources or the latest document disclosure."

"Today, I'm sure they would still be progressive people," she said. "And they would be terrified by the parallels in targeting and repression."

Ms. Meeropol, a staff lawyer at the center -- where the median salary is about $60,000 -- is representing Muslim immigrants, among hundreds of noncitizens who were rounded up for visa violations in the weeks after 9/11. Many were held for months in a federal detention center in Brooklyn as "persons of interest" to terror investigators and then deported. The class-action lawsuit against government officials and guards charges that the immigrants were abused and that they were deprived of due process because of their religion or national origin. Several of the immigrants returned to New York to give depositions in a Manhattan hotel last week.

"The kind of torture, interrogation and arbitrary detention that we now associate with Guantánamo and secret C.I.A. facilities really started right here, in Brooklyn," she said.

Ms. Meeropol is herself a plaintiff in a suit filed last month by the Center for Constitutional Rights, contending that her communications with clients at the detention center may have been monitored illegally by the National Security Agency.

The granddaughter of the Rosenbergs accusing the government of spying? It is an irony that has not been lost on conservative Web logs. "It's incredibly simplistic to look at what I'm complaining about and find it ironic," she said. "What I'm complaining about is a new version of that same type of misconduct: when a threat from the outside causes the government to curtail civil liberties. You can draw parallels to what happened to my grandparents.

"It's a different population being affected -- they're vulnerable," she added of the immigrants, contrasting the climate now and then. "In terms of the human toll, it's just as bad if not worse than under McCarthy. If anything, it's worse because of the secrecy with which this administration operates."

Ms. Meeropol, who just turned 30, grew up in western Massachusetts, where her father, a lawyer, runs the Rosenberg Fund for Children, which supports children whose parents have suffered because of their progressive politics. (Her older sister works for Campus Compact, which promotes community service.) She majored in anthropology at Wesleyan, and graduated from New York University's law school.

"I grew up reading my grandparents' letters, and they were emotionally affecting," she said. "Maybe it was as a teenager, thinking about what it means to be in prison, that I felt compelled to get involved in that struggle."

Ms. Meeropol was asked whether being a lawyer means she thinks the justice system works.

"I don't think the system works," she replied. "I don't think that being a lawyer, not a street radical, means I believe the system works. I'm kind of a nerd. I like to read, to write. This is the way I'm more comfortable participating."

She lives in Brooklyn. Her boyfriend is studying education policy at Teachers College. She met him at a progressive summer camp where the Meeropol name was iconic, so she never had to flaunt her political pedigree.

"I don't usually use it as a pickup line," she said.

Ms. Meeropol is a registered Democrat but a self-described radical, and her family background leads to questions one might not ordinarily pose to an ordinary lawyer.

For example, can she envision any circumstances under which she could justify passing secrets to a foreign power?

"Can I imagine any situation where I would feel the balance of power is so dangerous to humanity that it would be O.K. to do something like that?" she replied. "Sure."

Suppose one of her clients confided that he was a terrorist and had planted an atomic bomb?

"As an attorney, if you believe your client is giving you information that would lead to imminent death, you have an ethical obligation to report that," she said. "I would try to figure out a way to stop that bomb from going off."

How does she reconcile being a radical and an officer of the court?

"Part of our mission at the center is to bring cases other people might be too timid to bring," Ms. Meeropol said. "I'm devoted to trying to make the law work."
85 2006-02-05 Siebert considers the question of whether both human and nonhuman animals possess personalities or whether personality is a distinctively human trait. He might, however, have considered another alternative: perhaps neither has personalities. If by...
86 2006-02-06 An ensemble gains prestige from introducing a new piece of music, but there is far less glory in second or third performances. So every year dozens of new works have their premieres with great fanfare and are then promptly consigned to oblivion. Various organizations have tried to address this problem. The latest worthy effort is the Cheswatyr New Music Initiative, a sensible joint project of the Orpheus chamber ensemble, WNYC Radio, the American Music Center, National Public Radio and the Cheswatyr Foundation.

Each year, the project plans to commission one work, which will have its premiere in Carnegie Hall and then will be broadcast on local and national radio and performed more widely by Orpheus. Marc Mellits was the first composer to receive this enviable treatment, and his new piece, "Brick," was heard at Carnegie on Saturday night.

A sincere tribute to the composer's mother and grandfather, it consists of seven short, vivid movements written for chamber orchestra in a direct and accessible style, a kind of mellifluous minimalism with Neo-Romantic trappings and churning accompaniments that vigorously push out into the open. The movement called "Refrigerator Wisdom" had a tuneful solo written expressly for Orpheus's bassoonist, Frank Morelli. Other movements had titles like "Terracotta Soup" and "Cinderblock Pudding," though on first hearing I wished for more of the wry humor, playful surprise or textural contrast these titles suggested.

Orpheus filled out the program with solid performances of Ravel's "Tombeau de Couperin" and Beethoven's Eighth Symphony, giving the latter ample heft and strong rhythmic profile. As the evening's guest soloist, the noted Russian violinist Vadim Repin lent his sleek technique to Prokofiev's Second Violin Concerto. The lyrical slow movement, played with a large, plush tone, made the strongest impression, but the outer movements, despite Mr. Repin's bravura feats and virtuoso fingerings, lacked the core expressive urgency that allows this concerto to hit its deeper mark. To these ears, Mr. Repin's playing can be rather chilly and disengaged, but Saturday's crowd found plenty to appreciate, calling the violinist back until he complied with an encore of fiddle fireworks.
87 2006-02-06 New York City, a leader in medical research, has the nation's densest concentration of hospitals and medical schools, many of them nationally renowned. So it is a pretty good place to get hospital care, right?

In fact, only seven hospitals statewide -- and just two in the city -- made the list of hospitals in the country where patients have the lowest risk of death or serious complications, according to a report to be released today. The study, by HealthGrades, a health care analysis firm, is in its fourth year, and each year has yielded disappointing results for New York.

Still, having seven hospitals on the list was an improvement over previous years; last year, the state had four.

By comparison, Florida has 50 hospitals in the top tier this year; Ohio, 27; California; 23; Illinois, 21; Texas, 17; Pennsylvania, 14; and New Jersey 9.

Officials at the Healthcare Association of New York State, a hospital industry group, said they had not yet had a chance to take a thorough look at the findings.
88 2006-02-06 A poll published by the newspaper El País in late January found that nearly half of the Spaniards who responded felt the proposal threatened to split Spain apart. It is not widely popular even in Mr. Zapatero's Socialist Party.

Yet Mr. Zapatero has resisted pressure to reject the proposal outright and has instead chosen to modify it through negotiations.

After receiving a briefing on its contents, Eduardo Zaplana of the center-right Popular Party said at a news conference on Thursday that the revised proposal still presented a risk to the nation's stability.

A central concern of Mr. Zaplana and other critics has been an agreement on one point that Mr. Zapatero has made public -- to let Catalonia, among the richest of Spain's 17 regions, keep 50 percent of its income taxes, up from 33 percent.

The concession drew requests from other regions for equal treatment, which the government granted, fueling fears that the regions would seek more control of their own funds, leaving the central government without adequate resources.

With Spain already transferring powers to the European Union, the simultaneous surrendering of money and authority to the regions threatens to drive the Spanish government toward irrelevancy, Mr. Zapatero's political opponents contend.

Anxiety over the issue is in the air here. "For the first time in my life, I am worried about the future of Spain," said Francisco Javier de la Mota, 30, a landscape architect who lives near Madrid.

He said that the uncertainty over Catalonia was inevitably a topic of conversation when he gathered with friends, even those who did not regularly follow politics.

Mr. Zapatero says fears of a fragmenting Spanish state are exaggerated, conjured by his opponents in hopes of scaring the public into turning against the Socialists, who lead the government, though without a majority in Parliament.

To secure the votes necessary to pass legislation over the past two years, Mr. Zapatero has regularly relied on the support of a Catalonian separatist party, Esquerra Republicana. He defends his approach, contending that there is no use denying greater autonomy to a region whose leaders demand it with near unanimity.

He says that the proper response in a democratic Spain is to negotiate, offer compromises and embrace the concept of a pluralistic country. He insists that nothing in the revised proposal would enable the Catalonians to challenge the authority of the central government.

But one of the chief Catalan negotiators, Artur Mas, president of Convergència i Unió, the largest political group in Catalonia, has already undercut his argument. He says the agreement with Mr. Zapatero will allow Catalonia to address the Spanish government on equal terms.

Only days after the negotiations with Mr. Zapatero concluded, Mr. Mas said his party would begin lobbying for additional freedoms.
89 2006-02-06 MIDDLETOWN, Conn., Feb. 3 - It is hard to imagine anyone but Liz Lerman taking on developmental biology as the subject for a dance, as she has in her new "Ferocious Beauty: Genome," a world premiere Friday night here at Wesleyan University's Center for the Arts. Ms. Lerman has been addressing unlikely, increasingly complex themes for 30 years. But she is still at her best when focusing on microcosmic individual stories.

"Ferocious Beauty: Genome" was developed over three years of work with science faculty members and students at Wesleyan, a major sponsor of the project. Ms. Lerman had been pondering the exploration of genetics through dance when she was introduced to Laura Grabel, the dean of natural sciences and mathematics and a modern dancer.

Ms. Lerman's concept was to develop visual ways to communicate ideas about complicated subjects like the genome, which contains the total genetic information or hereditary material possessed by an organism. One goal seems to have been to link the arts and the sciences. But "Ferocious Beauty" is most powerful when it sticks to pure dance or pure science.

There is nothing quite like the passion and the clarity of video commentary by the Wesleyan professors interviewed for this multimedia production. A segment in which two scientists "choreograph" is very funny. And a small stand-alone section toward the end cuts through the production'ssprawling, scattershot elements to the heart of the subject.

Early in her career, Ms. Lerman began to integrate trained and untrained performers in their 60's and older into her pieces, expertly and unsentimentally. One of those performers, Martha Wittman, meditatively talks of apples as she peels one, wearing a saucepan as a jaunty hat. She contemplates cooking, the resemblance of a spiral of apple peel to the DNA chain, and the genetic material contained so compactly in apple seeds.

The light dims. Video of a small woman moving on spiky steel crutches crowds out projections of globelike apples. The woman, Suzanne Richard, enters the stage in a wheelchair. A hugely, defiantly expressive presence on her own and in the video close-ups of her upper body, Ms. Richard takes a boldly active part in the evocative dance with able-bodied performers that follows. Then, quietly, Ms. Wittman appears, musing aloud about the perfect, tasteless supermarket apples of today. "No more tart surprises," she wistfully murmurs.

"Ferocious Beauty" and its production elements -- Michael Mazzola's lighting, Darron L. West's soundscape and Logan Kibens's video and effects editing -- are likely to settle into a clearer whole with repeated performances, and the choreography and the verbal and visual material may meld more completely. But in that single remark about apples and in the way she, Ms. Wittman and Ms. Richard arrive there in that simple, powerful segment, Ms. Lerman makes an irrefutable case for the place of perceived biological imperfection in the span of human genetics. Her argument has nothing to do with ethics. And it is a case that could be made only by an artist.
90 2006-02-06 The following equity and convertible debt offerings are expected this week:       Acorda Therapeutics, an initial public offering of 5.5 million shares. Banc of America Securities.     AmComp Inc., an initial public offering of 10.5 million shares...
91 2006-02-06 To the Editor:     David Brooks (''The Nation of the Future,'' column, Feb. 2) presents a compelling case for America's future economic prosperity, with one caveat: intellectual property theft....
92 2006-02-06 "This was a worst-case scenario, a nightmare scenario," said Thomas May, the Danish consul general in Dubai. "I don't think anyone in their wildest imagination would have expected an escalation like what we have seen."

Late on Sunday, the Lebanese interior minister, Hassan al-Sabaa, offered to resign over the way the episode was handled. The Interior Ministry said that 21 members of the country's internal security forces had been injured, and a source in the state security service, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to provide the information, said that 174 people had been arrested and that most of them were not Lebanese.

Lebanese Muslim leaders quickly condemned the attacks and appealed for calm. Lebanon's grand mufti, Muhammad Rashid Kabbani, denounced the violence, saying there were infiltrators among the protesters trying to "harm the stability of Lebanon."

Muhammad Khalil, an Islamic teacher from Akkar, in northern Lebanon, and an organizer of the march, said: "The burning of buildings and the destruction of cars is unacceptable. This was supposed to be a peaceful demonstration, but people who love God and Muhammad are becoming overwhelmed by their anger."

On Sunday night, several Lebanese Christian political parties, including the Phalangists, the Aounists and the Lebanese Forces, held an unusual counterdemonstration near the Maronite church that was damaged during the earlier protest. "We are here to say that nobody can get the Christians out of Lebanon," said Mark Mahfouz, 34, a member of the Lebanese Forces. Prime Minister Fuad Saniora also urged calm, declaring that "this is absolutely not the way we express our opinions."

But many Lebanese also spoke of unity, the memory of the 15-year sectarian civil war still fresh in many minds. At the counterdemonstration, a Christian woman who would give her name only as Rita and who lives near the Danish Mission said men leaving the demonstration had entered the bakery where she worked.

"They were apologizing," she said, and saying, " 'We didn't mean for this to be a violent demonstration. We only wanted to say that we stand behind the name of Muhammad. But we believe that we are all Lebanese together.' "
93 2006-02-06 Betty Friedan, the feminist crusader and author whose searing first book, ''The Feminine Mystique,'' ignited the contemporary women's movement in 1963 and as a result permanently transformed the social fabric of the United States and countries aro...
94 2006-02-06 A.I.G. Is Said to Be Near Settlement With State and U.S. Regulators  American International Group, the insurance giant, is expected to announce a settlement with federal and state regulators that will require the company to pay about $1.6 billion ...
95 2006-02-06 Mr. Bastian's collection also includes navy sports jackets that begin at $1,700 and fitted dress shirts approaching $400. What separates them from Gap basics is in the details: messages like "lucky day" or "fake it" on sweaters in intarsia, printed in reverse so they are legible when the wearer looks in the mirror; shirt collars designed to ride higher than the standard; and bodies articulated with vents and darts to accommodate the modern gym body.

But some men still may wonder what sets these $400 garments apart from the trim muscle cuts of Abercrombie & Fitch shirts, or, for that matter, what is special about a fine cashmere rugby by Mr. Bastian that looked not much different than one they could have bought at J. Crew last fall.

"Men's wear is a game of millimeters," Mr. Bastian said. "You can find really cheap stuff out there, but you'll never wear it."

For a certain segment of the population, that may be true. But the entertainment publicist Steven Huvane, who could most likely afford Dior, was walking around the Generra showroom last week during a presentation by its designer, Tony Melillo, and he was dressed head to toe in gently priced Generra. You have to wonder who is going to buy all that expensive men's wear when Mr. Melillo's $280 cotton canvas blazers and $150 twill pants look just as nice. "Some people just think they are too cool for this price bracket," Mr. Melillo said.

The return to formality in men's wear also tends to drown out Mr. Bastian's point when there are so many tailored suits on the runways that no one quite reinvents the wheel, beyond coming up with clever names for their labels. Nathan Bogle and Marcus Wainwright of Rag & Bone made suits with one button on the sleeve. From Duckie Brown, by Steven Cox and Daniel Silver, there were suits with flowing pant legs and worn with oversized knit sweaters that lacked the humor or rough-hewn appeal of their past collections. It was a matter of being either too far out, or not far enough.

Kenneth Cole also demonstrated some finesse in outerwear with heavy military coats, but his efforts to make them look more expensive with leather and fur trims and an artsy wash-and-spin treatment had the wrong effect. They looked fake.

On the other hand, for a designer who usually only dips his toe in the style pool, which is the way most men seem to like their fashion, John Varvatos offered a collection in which every piece looked thoughtfully designed for the rugged outdoorsman with a taste for cashmere and exotic animal skins. Mr. Varvatos could not expect a checked wool poncho with stained edges or his many variations of herringbone jackets trimmed and whip-stitched with leather to have broad appeal, but even the most basic pants and jackets in this collection looked well worth the cost.

His jeans with a low waist, baggy crotch and long, tight legs -- already the silhouette of the season, ripped from the body of Pete Doherty, the troubled English rocker -- were made palatable in finer fabrics with the texture of oilcloth.

Mr. Varvatos's challenge to the status quo for men was meek in comparison with that of John Bartlett, who based his collection on a hairy and hypermasculine segment of the gay population known as "bears," and within that category of manly gay men, a subset that paradoxically likes fashion. As Mr. Bartlett described the clothes -- including a loden cashmere peacoat and see-through merino wool long johns he set to a dance remix of the music from "Brokeback Mountain" -- what makes them more appealing than, say, an affordable wool jacket from Pendleton, is that "even the most butch of creatures love luxury."

Some designers would tell men that the difference between luxury and affordable is a matter of apples and oranges. But not Mr. Bartlett, who sees only bananas.

Correction: February 8, 2006, Wednesday A picture caption on Monday with a review of men's fashion misspelled the name of a clothing line. It is Generra, as the article said, not Genarra. The Fashion Diary article on the same page misspelled the name of a designer. He is Jack McCollough, not McCullough.
96 2006-02-07 ZipRealty, the discount brokerage, is offering a useful feature on its Website. It lists the percentage of properties in the market that have been reduced in price. You'll have to register at the site to use the feature, but it comes up with some ...
97 2006-02-07 Wire-tapping, black ops, and death threats would all seem to be part of a story about a government gone wrong, but it's actually just a day in the life of sunny Hollywood. Anthony Pellicano, friend to the elites, was charged with 110 counts of wir...
98 2006-02-07 Mr. Knoop has hired a Los Angeles entertainment lawyer and said that he hopes to sell a movie about his experience. (New York Magazine yesterday cited an anonymous source saying that Mr. Knoop was seeking a book deal about the Leroy story, which Mr. Knoop denied.)

Mr. Knoop's statements and first-hand account — the first by anyone involved in the deception — may help solve once and for all a truly bizarre literary fraud, one that drew in countless people, many of them celebrities and noted literary figures who had lengthy contact in person and on the phone with someone they thought was making literature out of a terrible childhood.

"People were generous because they thought they were helping an H.I.V.-positive former drug addict, ex-prostitute, who used the hardships of his life to make art," said Ira Silverberg, JT Leroy's former literary agent and an early champion.

In the interview, Mr. Knoop outlined the origin and execution of the scheme, which he said was motivated initially by his and Ms. Albert's shared desire to have their artistic work — his music and her writing — acknowledged by a wider audience. Ms. Albert's attorney, Peter Cane, of Manhattan, declined to comment. A person answering the phone at Ms. Albert's home hung up on a reporter.

Mr. Knoop said the ruse began in 1996, when Ms. Albert sought to get in touch with Dennis Cooper, a noted gay writer of edgy fiction whose work she admired. Concerned that Mr. Cooper might not be interested in communicating with a woman in her 30's, Ms. Albert had the idea to approach him as a troubled teenage boy nicknamed Terminator, with the biography of a street hustler.

Mr. Cooper said his memory of that early call was consistent with Mr. Knoop's account. He said that Terminator's life story seemed almost taken from the pages of one of his own novels.

"He was very much like one of my characters, so I was interested," Mr. Cooper said.

The conversation went off without a hitch, Mr. Knoop said, and soon Mr. Cooper and Terminator — Ms. Albert later changed his name to JT ("Jeremy Terminator") Leroy — were speaking frequently about Ms. Albert's writing. Eventually Mr. Cooper championed JT Leroy to writers like Bruce Benderson as well as several prominent Manhattan editors. As JT Leroy, Ms. Albert also successfully solicited editorial advice from writers like Michael Chabon and Dave Eggers.

As the books of JT Leroy built an audience — the first, "Sarah," was published in 2000, followed by "The Heart Is Deceitful Above All Things" in 2001 — Mr. Knoop said, media interest in JT Leroy and his improbable story increased. When a German television station asked for an interview around the time "Sarah" was published, Mr. Knoop said, he and Ms. Albert recruited his half sister, Savannah, to stand in. She wore a wig and sunglasses as a disguise, he said, an outfit that would become JT Leroy's trademark.

"At first it was just to validate it," Mr. Knoop said. "There was a lot of buzz, but you couldn't meet JT."

"We just need to make an appearance or two," he said, summing up the thinking at the time. "Then JT would go back to being a reclusive writer."

But that didn't happen. Instead, in 2002, Ms. Albert put together a six-week European book tour with JT Leroy's various European publishers. Savannah Knoop went along to play Leroy in public, with Ms. Albert in the role of his chaperone. The trip culminated with a large event in Rome, at which Ms. Knoop, as JT Leroy, conducted a reading while hidden under a table.

But the ruse, Mr. Knoop said, eventually began to take its toll on the couple's relationship. He said he had tried to convince Ms. Albert to abandon the deception, either by taking credit for the works of JT Leroy, or simply by letting the persona quietly fade away, but that she refused.

Though Mr. Knoop and Ms. Albert lived together for years, they were not legally married. If Mr. Knoop is to share in any of the monies generated by JT Leroy's books and films, he might need to demonstrate that he was an integral part of the deception.

Mr. Knoop's account also sheds light on one of the most confounding aspects of the Leroy story, the involvement of a Bay Area psychologist, Dr. Terrence Owens, whom JT Leroy often credited with starting his writing career. Several writers, including Mr. Benderson and Patti Sullivan, a screenwriter who worked on a film script for "Sarah," said that they took part in conference calls with Dr. Owens and JT Leroy when the writer was supposedly experiencing psychological problems. The involvement of a legitimate psychologist lent credibility to the ruse, they said.

Mr. Knoop said that Dr. Owens himself was a dupe. He conducted his sessions with JT Leroy by telephone, Mr. Knoop said, and met a stand-in only once, in the late 1990's.

In a phone call, Dr. Owens said that he did not know Mr. Knoop and that patient confidentiality constrained him from speaking. "I know it doesn't meet the public curiosity, but it's a different obligation I'm held to," Dr. Owens said.

Mr. Knoop said he did not believe Ms. Albert would ever admit to her role in the JT Leroy scheme.

"For her, it's very personal," he said. "It's not a hoax. It's a part of her."
99 2006-02-07 MEDAL EVENTS: 4 (1 men's, 1 women's, 2 pairs)     Contested in the signature building of the Turin Olympics, the Palavela, which features a sail-shaped concrete roof, and coming off a scandal-marred 2002 Games, figure skating should once again dom...
100 2006-02-07 Over the course of the season, the Knicks have seemed to shift from one lineup plan to another while putting together a 14-32 record that is tied for the second worst in the N.B.A.

When Isiah Thomas became the Knicks' president in December 2003 and traded for Stephon Marbury soon afterward, he spoke of the importance of improving the team quickly and not engaging in a full-scale rebuilding process.

But Thomas began to shift his emphasis when he concluded that the injured Allan Houston would never be an effective player again. He began speaking of the need for the Knicks to get younger, and getting three first-round picks last June reinforced that notion.

Brown apparently came aboard last summer with his own ideas. Never known for relying on rookies, he had said he took the Knicks job assuming that veterans like Tim Thomas and Mike Sweetney, both subsequently traded, would play significant roles.

At the beginning of the season, Brown relied on some of his remaining veterans. But the three players taken in the first round began to show promise and took on more prominent roles.

Frye, the eighth selection in the first round, won rookie-of-the-month honors in November and was in the early running for rookie of the year. He was put in the starting lineup.

But three weeks later, Frye was coming off the bench again. And though Robinson, not always a sound decision maker, remained a starter longer than Frye, he has seen a bigger reduction in minutes than Frye.

As for Lee, his short stay in the starting lineup ended Jan. 21, and he did not even play Sunday. Ariza, once billed as part of the youth movement, has languished on the inactive list and is mentioned in trade talk.

Whether the Knicks' on-again, off-again emphasis on youth is a shifting strategy meant to rationalize a terrible season is hard to tell. But Brown spoke up for his new system Monday, contending that the younger players will benefit from playing alongside the veteran Rose, with his knowledge and confidence rubbing off on them.

"The more guys that are threats, and the more guys that have ability to pass, I think the better off everybody is," Brown said. "That's been a big problem all year -- we haven't had facilitators, guys that move the ball. I think they've all tried to move the ball, but I think we need more guys with experience, that understand when a guy is open, who know with double-teaming who is going to be free."

"He'll hit you when open," Brown said of Rose. "He knows rotations, he knows personnel. He'll get you in positions where you can be successful on both ends of the court."

When Brown was asked about Marbury, his injured point guard, he maintained that Marbury had been doing those types of things, but that it would help the Knicks to have a second player capable of intelligently moving the ball around.

For Brown, it was another day in an already long season. Rose will play and some young players will sit, and maybe the Knicks will start winning a few games.
101 2006-02-07 McCALL -- Janet J. (nee Jones). Wife of Julien L. McCall of Hunting Valley, OH, beloved mother of Melissa of Hunting Valley, OH, Alison G. of NYC, NY and Julien L. Jr. (Lash) of London, England. Loving grandmother of Blinn L., Julia L. and Andrew ...
102 2006-02-07 To the Editor:      ''Children, Media and Sex: A Big Book of Blank Pages'' (Personal Health, Jan. 30) misses the root cause of why we need to monitor young people's exposure to sex in the media. Yes, we need to address the saturation of packaged s...
103 2006-02-07 Two of the authors have consulted for pharmaceutical companies that make antidepressants or have accepted research money from them.

The researchers found that 68 percent of 207 women who discontinued their medicine relapsed into depression while they were pregnant, but only 26 percent of those who continued their medicine through at least 16 weeks of gestation had a relapse.

According to the authors, these rates of relapse are similar to those of depressed women who are not pregnant and stop their medicine. Being pregnant, in other words, apparently provided no protection.

The second paper, published yesterday in The Archives of Pediatrics & Adolescent Medicine, reported that newborns exposed in the womb to Prozac and similar antidepressants, called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors or S.S.R.I.'s, could develop neonatal abstinence syndrome.

This condition creates a physically uncomfortable withdrawal period of about 48 hours and can bring on crying, tremors, sleep problems and gastrointestinal disturbances, among other symptoms.

Israeli researchers tracked 60 infants exposed to S.S.R.I.'s during gestation, and found that 18 of them suffered the syndrome. None of a matched group of 60 infants whose mothers had not taken S.S.R.I.'s had the problem. The women had been taking various drugs, including Prozac, Zoloft, Paxil and Celexa.

The withdrawal usually does not require treatment and appears to have no immediate negative consequences, the researchers said. But, they wrote, "The long-term effects of in utero exposure to S.S.R.I.'s have not been demonstrated clearly."

The researchers acknowledged that their sample size was small and that they depended on mothers to report their own use of the drugs.

Yet stopping the medication also presents problems for mother and child, said Dr. Margaret G. Spinelli, an assistant professor of clinical psychiatry at Columbia, who was not involved in either study. One concern about depression in pregnancy is adverse outcomes to the baby, she said.

"Depressed mothers don't eat properly, they don't tend to their prenatal care and they're more likely to be smoking," Dr. Spinelli said. "Many physicians just stop the medicine without even thinking. We have to be aware of these things."

Dr. Gil Klinger, the lead author of the Israeli study and a neonatologist at Tel Aviv University, agreed. "Pregnant women should not stop treatment because depression during pregnancy has its own risks," he wrote in an e-mail message. "However, it should be kept in mind that prolonged S.S.R.I. exposure has at least a short-term effect on the newborn."

Dr. Cohen of Massachusetts General also stressed weighing the risks and said that the data helped to refine the risk-benefit decision of doctors and patients. "Hopefully those decisions can now be made in a more informed fashion so that we worry not just about the risks of exposure to antidepressants but also about risks to the patient from depression if they stop their medicine," he said.

"My hope is that it will be less of a reflex to stop the medicine and more a collaborative decision that weighs all the risks," he added.
104 2006-02-07 John Vaught, who coached the University of Mississippi to national football prominence and developed the star quarterbacks Charlie Conerly and Archie Manning, died Friday in Oxford, Miss. He was 96.

His death was announced by the university.

In 25 seasons as head coach, Vaught took Mississippi to 6 Southeastern Conference championships and 18 bowl games. He had a record of 190-61-12, and his teams were among the top five in the major national polls every season from 1959 to 1963. He was elected to the College Football Hall of Fame in 1979.

Conerly, who was a longtime quarterback for the Giants, starred at tailback on Vaught's first squad, the 1947 SEC champions. Manning, later an outstanding quarterback for the New Orleans Saints, led Mississippi to a 1970 Sugar Bowl victory.

Vaught coached Mississippi to an unbeaten and untied season in 1962, when his team went 9-0, then defeated Arkansas in the Sugar Bowl, a source of pride for a university scarred by the most violent episode of the civil rights movement.

In the early fall of 1962, a mob of segregationists tried to block James Meredith from becoming the first black student at the university. The football team's nickname, the Rebels, embodied the Old South, but Vaught was enlisted by the Kennedy administration in a futile effort to avert bloodshed.
105 2006-02-07 India's bellwether Sensex stock index breached the 10,000-point level for the first time. The much-watched 30-share index touched 10,002 points in the afternoon, later settling at 9,980, a record close. Traders on the Bombay Stock Exchange, Asia's...
106 2006-02-07 White House Budget Includes More Spending On Military and Cuts in Domestic Programs  President Bush proposed a $2.77 trillion budget that would increase spending on the military and homeland security, while calling for substantial cutbacks in dome...
107 2006-02-07 Local tow companies, which already hated collecting abandoned cars because there is no money in it, resisted pitching in after the city said it could not pay them to do so.

"For salvage yards, it might be a gold mine," said Doris Arnold, co-owner of Arnold's Towing Service, which has hauled cars here for 25 years. "For a towing company, it would break our back."

Over the city's protests, Arnold's and the three other operators that contract with the city for normal towing -- after accidents, drunken driving arrests and run-of-the-mill illegal parking -- refused to haul the flood-wrecked cars away as part of their regular duties. Most had limited space to store abandoned vehicles, which must be held at least 37 days before disposal.

If nobody claims a car during the state-established waiting period, towing companies must try to find the owner and let him know by certified mail that they are going to dispose of it. They also have to inform the public through newspaper advertisements before selling abandoned cars, usually to a scrap yard 160 miles north in Miami.

Cecilia Gonzalez, who owns a towing company with her husband, Ray, said she could file a lien against the owners of abandoned cars, who would then not be able to register another vehicle in Florida or get drivers' licenses renewed without paying the towing charges. But many who abandon cars are drifters who drove in from other states and are hard to find through records searches. Many cannot afford the fees anyway.

Chief Mauldin said a recent meeting with the city's four contracted tow operators had yielded a potential solution. Mrs. Gonzalez's company, A1A, agreed to tow the remaining abandoned vehicles as long as it had sole responsibility for the job. The company gets $60 to $70 per ton of crushed car, she said.

"We have the means to make it a little profitable," said Mrs. Gonzalez, whose company has several acres of storage space and does salvage as well as towing. "If we can just have the whole volume, we can keep the pace up and help the city."

Despite the challenges involved in finding many owners, the city is also moving to impose stiff fines on people who desert their cars: $500 plus a storage fee of perhaps $35 a day, Chief Mauldin said.

At the Conch Republic Cigar Factory on Greene Street, near the heart of Key West's tourist district, Linda Willoughby was still fuming about the minivan from New Jersey that took up a prime parking spot outside the shop for three months. Constant calls to the city proved fruitless, she said, so last month the shop paid $450 to have the minivan towed.

"I'm mad at the people from New Jersey for leaving their trash on our doorstep," said Ms. Willoughby, the store's manager.

Elsewhere in Key West, several residents said the situation had improved in recent weeks: eyesore cars were finally disappearing. But some were still in evidence amid the lush foliage, picket fences and pastel-trimmed homes of Old Town.

On Emma Street, a Chevrolet Corsica sat with its hood popped and windows gone. On Thomas Street, a Suzuki beach buggy with a Grateful Dead sticker rusted away in the twilight. And on Catherine Street, a BMW took up a parking space for city employees, its interior strewn with sand, trash and stray clothing. A notice on the windshield warned that it would be towed on Dec. 22.

"This is a huge elephant," Chief Mauldin said. "We are going to take one bite at a time of this, and eventually we're going to whittle this thing down."
108 2006-02-07 A. Framingham can't tell us everything. You can probably count the number of blacks in the original study on one hand. Well, maybe two. It's no one's fault. When that study was first begun in 1948, the town of Framingham was mostly populated by second-generation immigrants and Yankees. That's just what it was.

But if there are unique risks and environmental agents triggering cardiovascular disease in African-Americans, Framingham's data can't be that helpful.

Q. Is there a special problem with heart disease in African-Americans?

A. For the nation as a whole, death from cardiovascular disease has declined since 1963. Yet, if you look at African-Americans in regions like Mississippi, mortality from heart disease is flat, or trending upward. This is particularly true for women. A middle-aged black woman in Mississippi will have four times the risk of death from cardiovascular disease than a white woman elsewhere in the country.

We have reasonable guesses why this is so. We think obesity is hugely important. We also think that smoking, inactivity, high blood pressure and access to health care figure into the problem, too. But we have to pin it down. We need more information on things like social support, anger, hostility, optimism. There may also be some unique buffers against stress within our community -- like religion and extended family.

When you do a study like this, you want to figure out what's killing people. You enroll a large number and follow them. Over the years, some people will get sick; others won't. So the job is to try to determine the difference between those who got sick and those who didn't.

Q. Why do a health study in Jackson?

A. What did the bank robber Willie Sutton answer when asked why he robbed banks? "Because that's where the money is!" Mississippi is where the heart disease is. We have the highest rates of it in the country.

Q. You've just finished collecting your base line data. Have you found anything interesting?

A. Very high levels of obesity, higher than the national average. African- American women lead the way in obesity nationally, and our numbers here are significantly higher than that. The rates of diabetes and hypertension are quite high.

Interestingly, alcohol consumption among the women is much lower than average. There are some other findings, but we'll have to hold off on announcing them until they are published in professional journals.

Q. Are you looking at the unique stresses that African-Americans experience -- racial discrimination, for instance?

A. We have questionnaires that zero in on discrimination. But we also look at the response, how you cope with it.

Also, a lot of the areas where blacks live are economically depressed. One of the things we're looking at is, What kind of access do you have to a healthy lifestyle?

Can you get out of there to walk, do exercise -- or is the level of violence in your immediate surroundings so high that this would be a risky proposition? We look at how many grocery stores are in a certain area. Do you have to rely on the corner market with its jars of pickled eggs and pigs' feet on the counter?

Q. Is the traditional diet of Mississippi a problem related to heart disease?

A. Yes. In the traditional diet, the fat and calories are astronomical. They add up to our being the fattest state in the union. The soul food diet needs a lot of tweaking if it's ever to be remotely healthy.

There was a study of blacks and whites in a Georgia county in the 1960's. It showed that even given the traditional diet, blacks had a surprisingly low rate of coronary heart disease. The big difference: they were sharecroppers, people who did physical work. They didn't have nearly the access to bad things all day long that people have now.

The problem today for people living under stressful conditions is that harmful stuff is sometimes a cheap way to take a load off their lives and feel less stressed. I think that drives a lot of eating and smoking.

Q. Do you think that some people are going to hate your message of heart health?

A. Some will think we're further stigmatizing a group with a lot of problems already. But if you have conversations with African-Americans from the South, they already suspect that a lot of things they love are no good for them.

Q. Do you try to intervene in the lives of the people you're studying?

A. We're an observational study. But we have to be careful. If you don't share helpful information because you don't want to interfere with the natural history of their disease, then you're on a slippery slope. That was the rationale behind keeping information from the sick in the Tuskegee study.

People around here remember that. So, of course, we take an active role in spreading the word about prevention.

Also, when one of our medical exams shows something of clinical importance in a participant, we contact their physician. If they don't have one, we have a group of local doctors who've volunteered to take them on.

Q. Did you grow up in the South?

A. Near Birmingham. My mother was a teacher; my father a steelworker, active in his union.

During my childhood, I think there were two big influences, beyond my family: the incredibly heroic acts you saw from individuals like Martin Luther King, and the space program. I wanted to grow up and help my people. I also dreamed about science. For me personally, the wonderful thing about working on this study is that it's a way for me to do both.
109 2006-02-07 It's true that Lancelot and King Arthur had warm feelings for each other, even though both loved Guinevere. But relatively few versions of the Arthurian legend actually include a ménage à trois.

This is Camelot from the women's point of view. "The Mists of Avalon," Marion Zimmer Bradley's 1983 novel, told this story, as did a 2001 TNT movie based on it. It takes place in a pagan time, when Druids ruled, the supreme deity was the Goddess and this thing called Christianity was just beginning to replace what the characters refer to affectionately as "the old ways."

Morgaine (Jordana Oberman), better known as Morgan Le Fay, is the central character, a young woman who goes to Avalon to develop her second sight under the tutelage of Viviane (Randi Sobol), the Lady of the Lake. Viviane wants only the best for Morgaine but deceives her on one crucial occasion.

On Beltane (Celtic May Day), a masked couple, unknown to each other, have sex as part of the rites. Viviane arranges for Morgaine to participate but doesn't mention that her partner is her half-brother, Arthur (Matthew Sholler). Appalled when she finds out, Morgaine gives the child born of that night to Viviane's hard-edged sister Morgause (Yvonne Roen).

In Camelot, Lancelet (Matthieu Cornillon), Viviane's son, pines away for Gwenhwyfar (Cameron Peterson), Arthur's new wife. This Gwenhwyfar is a mousy, giggly adolescent who desperately wants a child. When she and Arthur are unable to conceive, Arthur suggests that Lancelet try his luck impregnating Gwenhwyfar. As long as all three of them are in the bedroom, Arthur decides he might as well stay.
110 2006-02-07 "I'm afraid the problems we've had could put us under the control of the U.S.O.C., and it could take us 15 or 20 years to get back to where we were at," said Jim Shea Sr., president of the bobsled and skeleton federation. "I don't know how optimistic I can be right now."

Add the recent woes to the ridicule the sport has endured for most of its 120 years, and skeleton craves an image overhaul. Even participants of the other sliding sports -- bobsled and luge -- often deride skeleton for its seeming lack of grace or required skill. In skeleton, racers push the sled through the start before flopping on and riding down the track facefirst at speeds of 70 to 80 miles an hour.

Skeleton has bounced in and out of the Olympics twice, adored mainly by the people of its birthplace, St. Moritz, Switzerland, where a group of British tourists spawned the sport in the 1880's. Skeleton's previous stints as an Olympic sport were when St. Moritz played host to the Games, in 1928 and 1948.

Before the 2002 Olympics, however, it received a lift. Organizers for the Salt Lake Games were looking for a way to increase post-Olympics demand for the new bobsled and luge track in nearby Park City. Led by the organizing committee chairman, Mitt Romney, they lobbied to have skeleton placed on the Olympic program.

The sport had been experiencing a surge of popularity in Europe, and it was a perfect fit for the modern Winter Games, whose newest events, like snowboarding and freestyle skiing, thumb their noses at convention. Like snowboarding and freestyle skiing, skeleton is a combination of bravado and speed, full of thrill-seekers.

It did not hurt matters when the United States won the men's and women's gold medals in 2002, with Jim Shea Jr. becoming one of the inspirational stories of the Games. He won his gold medal weeks after his grandfather Jack Shea was killed, at age 91, by a drunken driver in a car crash. Jack, a double gold medalist in speedskating in the 1932 Games, was the first generation of Shea Olympians. He was followed by Jim, who competed in cross-country skiing in 1964, and Jim Jr., who carried a picture of his grandfather in his helmet during his Olympic runs.

Despite their sorrow, Jim Shea Sr. said, "it was great for the sport."

The number of sliders swelled, to more than 400 in the United States from fewer than 100 competitors in 2002. Skeleton attracted athletes who struggled to crack the more established sports of bobsled and luge, and some athletes who had never seen a track but loved its daredevil appeal.

Now the sport is full of people like Eric Bernotas, who tells the story of how he ended up in Lake Placid, N.Y., after taking a wrong turn while on vacation with his girlfriend. There, he met a skeleton coach, and at age 30, found a new sport. Less than four years later, he is third in the World Cup standings and headed to the Olympics.

Lund, who was No. 1 in the world before his failed drug test, started in luge. Jim Shea Jr. was a bobsledder. Noelle Pikus-Pace came from track and field and quickly rose up the ranks to become the World Cup overall champion last season. She broke her right leg in October, when she was run over by a bobsled finishing a practice run; she will not be at the Games.

Katie Uhlaender, the only woman to make the United States skeleton team this year, was going to college in Colorado two years ago, playing softball and considering a career in snowboarding, when a friend talked her into trying skeleton.

"Three weeks later, I was junior national champion," Uhlaender said. "Eight weeks later, I was national champion, and four weeks later I was seventh in the world."

When Pikus-Pace was injured, Uhlaender, 21, became the country's top female competitor. When the team qualified only one sled for the Games, she clinched it.
111 2006-02-08 What do you do when even the mayor of your city points out the obvious - that real estate prices have peaked? You tout a report that says prices in the previous year skyrocketed. The Real Estate Board of New York released a report yesterday, its f...
112 2006-02-08 The chef is Paul Liebrandt, with whom well-fed New Yorkers are well familiar. A proponent of avant-garde cuisine, Mr. Liebrandt worked briefly at Atlas, where he paired eel with crystallized violets. He moved from there to Papillon (no relation to a new brasserie by that name) and staged meals at which diners sucked dessert soup from baby bottles and bobbed for foie gras.

Gilt finds Mr. Liebrandt in a less provocative mood. He's not as intent on gadgetry and eccentric flavor combinations, but he remains too invested in intricate constructions, with so many facets they fatigue.

Take the ocean trout on a recent tasting menu. The pink rectangle of fish, cooked sous vide, had a dreamy richness and succulence. It deserved to be big, on a stage of its own.

Instead it yielded perhaps four bites and was mobbed by an unruly cast. There were squid ink gnocchi and sea beans, neither of which provided much flavor or textural contrast. Additional sponginess came courtesy of braised snails, which had been encased in a Thai basil and chicken mousse and then dusted with black trumpet mushroom powder. A sheet of Shanghai cabbage roofed the trout, while squiggles of razor clam flanked it.

All of this wasn't much bigger than a hockey puck. Mr. Liebrandt may use more ingredients per square inch than any chef in Manhattan.

While that tendency sometimes works against him, it springs from an admirable thoughtfulness. Mr. Liebrandt, 29, isn't some vacuously flamboyant bad boy, as his detractors have claimed. He's an evolving young artist who needs to draw sharper distinctions between his greater and lesser ideas.

Gilt gives him his grandest showcase, one with all the elegance of Ducasse or Daniel but less solemnity. A high-ceilinged lounge has a sleek white bar, a splash of purple light against a honeycomb screen of sorts and a futuristic shimmer. Lights behind banquettes in the dining area give ornate paneling above them a red glow.

The rooms are like two Kubricks in one, a "Space Odyssey" segueing into "Eyes Wide Shut." With a palate wide open, you embark on a feast worthy of "Barry Lyndon," beginning with all those canapés and ending with as many petits fours, including chocolates in a treasure chest that a server unlatches for you.

Given such extravagance, the prices — $92 for three courses, at least $135 for a longer tasting menu — aren't crazy. When Gilt opened, many dishes came with supplemental charges, and wines by the glass were ludicrously exorbitant. Now the supplements are fewer and the wines slightly less expensive.

My favorite dishes from Mr. Liebrandt's frequently changing menu tended to the most straightforward ones. A velouté of golden nugget squash was at once creamy and sharp, a gorgeous cradle for langoustine tortellini so delicate they brought to mind jewels.

A woodsy scent clung to loin of lamb, which had been slow-roasted with pine needles, and the tender flesh was bracketed by bits of veal sweetbread as delicate as the tortellini.

Those sweetbreads illustrated one advantage of Mr. Liebrandt's gilding. It creates a smorgasbord of scattered pleasures: some quail in the wings, a few chanterelles in the shadows. All the meat and fish I had were cooked to ideal temperatures and textures, no matter the method: slow-roasting for superb Banyuls-lacquered venison, sous vide for poularde with foie gras jus.

But there were questionable conceits. Dover sole had been rolled into a multilayer cylinder, an attempt to give it a heft this fish isn't meant to have. It was topped with Comté cheese, which was in turn topped with a tarragon mustard sabayon. What a lost sole.

The pastry chef, Oscar Palacios, produced desserts in fittingly whimsical shapes, and he brokered inspired partnerships, like the cardamom dust over a peanut butter parfait and the grilled pine nuts with chestnut ice cream.

But none of them rivaled Mr. Liebrandt's wasabi and green apple sorbet, a spellbinding holdover from his previous restaurants. Served as a palate cleanser, it included crystals of Maldon sea salt and — the final touch — a gloss of Tuscan olive oil, poured tableside.

Ceremony enough? Not at Gilt. Women received a lighter oil from one bottle, while men got a heavier one from another. Gilt could provoke the first condiment-based gender discrimination suit.

It's exhilarating in parts, exhausting in sum. One friend complained of so many elements to every course, pre-course and mid-course that "there was food I forgot to eat."

Another friend could remember little but the bread, but then the bread is fantastic. It includes soft buns flavored with serrano ham and crisp rolls filled with a sweet chestnut paste. Mr. Liebrandt makes it in-house, and it proves that when he avoids excess, he's an ace.

ATMOSPHERE Glimmering rooms in the 19th-century Villard Mansion section of the New York Palace Hotel are the setting for lavish, jacket-required dining.

WINE LIST A blessing to the wealthy connoisseur of French vintages, a bit of a curse to others. Check out the lengthy volume of more affordable teas.

PRICE RANGE For lunch, three-course prix fixe, $60; limited two-course prix fixe, $45. For dinner, three-course prix fixe, $92; chef's tasting menu starts at $135.

HOURS Lunch Monday through Friday from noon to 2 p.m. Dinner Monday through Saturday from 6 to 10 p.m. Closed Sundays.

RESERVATIONS For a prime dinner time, call at least three weeks in advance.

WHEELCHAIR ACCESS Street-level entrances to the hotel on 51st and 52nd Streets; elevator to restaurant, on second floor, and to accessible restrooms, on fourth floor.

WHAT THE STARS MEAN:

(None) Poor to satisfactory

* Good

** Very good

*** Excellent

**** Extraordinary

Ratings reflect the reviewer's reaction to food ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change.
113 2006-02-08 In addition, Zillow uses software to offer a free home-value estimator. The "Zestimate" service tries to do what has been a primary function of the real estate agent. And in contrast to many other real estate Web sites, like Realtor.com, run by the National Association of Realtors, or HomePages.com, owned by Housevalues Inc., Zillow does not try to connect its users with agents.

Many real estate agents worry that Zillow could be a first step in an online evolution that could threaten their $60 billion commission-based business, just as Expedia, Travelocity and other online sites disrupted the business of travel agents.

Mr. Barton said it was not his intent to take part of the agent's commission, which averages slightly less than 6 percent and is split between the buyer's and seller's agents. Instead, Zillow is an advertising-supported site.

Mr. Barton said he expected to sell advertising on the site because the information there will create in nearly every American city a community of people interested in real estate. New York City will be the notable exclusion, because of the complexity of mapping multistory multiowner condominiums.

Zillow's sizable capitalization is already causing anxiety among online companies that match real estate listings with interactive maps and other data. PropertyShark.com, a site that began with New York City listings and has since expanded to 15 other cities, for instance, is wary of Zillow because of its venture backing.

PropertyShark has no outside financing. "It is scary, and frustrating and nerve-racking," said Matthew Haines, the site's founder. "It made it quite clear that we are underfunded."

Redfin, though less well financed than Zillow, is perhaps even more ambitious in its aim to take on the work of agents. The site, which maps listings with other sources of real estate data for Seattle, added a feature last week that allows a visitor to buy a property online.

A real estate agent is not cut out of the process; in fact, Redfin is itself a real estate brokerage company. But the site automates the paperwork of making a bid and then rebates to the buyer two-thirds of the buyer's agent's commission, which is usually 3 percent. Redfin, as the buyer's agent, takes only a 1 percent commission.

Redfin shows the potential savings on every listing. For instance, the "direct savings" on a $699,000 house currently for sale in the Queen Anne district in Seattle is $13,980. The buyer gets the money at closing so it can be used for the down payment or to pass to the seller if it was used to sweeten an offer.

Right below the description of that property are two buttons, one to "see it" and the other to "buy it." A click on the see button helps the potential buyer arrange a tour of the property. Clicking on the buy button leads the visitor through online forms that generate the paperwork for an offer.

"We won't replace the agent," said Glenn Kelman, Redfin's chief executive. "We let people who are self-reliant do the legwork and gain 2 percent." Redfin has been financed with $1.25 million, with most of that coming from the Madrona Venture Group of Seattle. The company said it was seeking additional financing to expand to other cities.

All of these real estate sites are chipping away at the agent's business of matching clients with a property and then negotiating a deal. The Web is already displacing the initial contact that agents have with customers. A recent National Association of Realtors survey found that 77 percent of home buyers use the Internet to search for a home. About 24 percent said they first learned of a home from the Internet, up from 15 percent in a 2004 survey.

Mr. Barton does not exclude the possibility that the role of the agent, and his site, may change.

"People want Realtors," he said. "But is it rational to pay Realtors what they are paid?" He says he thinks they are overpaid because customers are doing more of the work themselves.

Zillow, for instance, has a number of other features that do the work of the agent. Someone wanting to compare properties can use pull-down menus to estimate the value of remodeling projects that are not reflected in the price. Because of the Internet, agents are spending less time with clients, Mr. Barton said. "Agents have to ask, What kind of value am I adding?"

Still, Mr. Barton said, "it is not our intent to dislocate the agent."

Mr. Kelman of Redfin said he recognized that change might be difficult. "We are like the penguins on the edge of an iceberg when no one wants to jump in first. Redfin is going in first," he said. "Maybe that isn't such a good analogy. The first penguin in usually gets eaten by sharks or something."
114 2006-02-08 SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 7 - Cisco Systems, a maker of equipment used to route Internet traffic, reported second-quarter earnings Tuesday that narrowly exceeded the projections of Wall Street analysts.

For its second quarter, which ended Jan. 28, Cisco reported sales of $6.6 billion, which was a 9.3 percent increase from the $6.1 billion in the comparable period a year ago and matched Wall Street projections.

The company said pro forma profit was 26 cents a share, compared with Wall Street projections of 25 cents. A year ago, Cisco reported pro forma income of 22 cents a share.

Excluding one-time charges and the cost of expensing stock options, Cisco's profit for the second quarter this year was 22 cents a share.

Net profit was $1.375 billion, down from $1.4 billion a year earlier, Cisco said. The returns, while far from showing the explosive growth enjoyed by Cisco during the heyday of the Internet boom, indicate that the company is headed in the right direction, said Stephen Kamman, a telecommunications equipment analyst with CIBC World Markets.
115 2006-02-08 JERSEY CITY, Feb. 7 - Some Manhattan-bound commuters were surprised yesterday to become part of the federal government's latest experiment in preventing terrorism on the nation's rail network.

Shortly after 10 a.m., the Department of Homeland Security started selectively screening passengers and their bags for explosives as they entered the PATH station at Exchange Place in Jersey City. A team of 11 screeners flown in from California asked commuters to walk through metal detectors and pass their briefcases and backpacks through scanning machines, just as they would at an airport.

Unlike airline passengers, the PATH riders did not have to empty their pockets or remove their shoes, leaving most of them grinning rather than grousing about erosion of civil liberties.

"Thankfully, my materials didn't get tossed," said Bernard McGovern, a human-resources manager from Caldwell, N.J. He was delayed less than a minute before being grilled about the experience by reporters, but said he doubted that regular screening would always be so quick.

"I can't see it not being a delay," Mr. McGovern said.

The screening, which will continue for three weeks, is part of a test of how technology can be used to head off bombings like those in the London subway last summer and on commuter trains in Madrid in March 2004. A second phase of the study, which will involve methods of screening passengers from a distance, possibly using infrared scanners, is scheduled for later this year, but a location has not been chosen, said Larry Orluskie, a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security.
116 2006-02-08 Democrats said they had not yet figured out how to counter the White House's long assault on their national security credentials. And they said their opportunities to break through to voters with a coherent message on domestic and foreign policy -- should they settle on one -- were restricted by the lack of an established, nationally known leader to carry their message this fall.

As a result, some Democrats said, their party could lose its chance to do to Republicans this year what the Republicans did to them in 1994: make the midterm election, normally dominated by regional and local concerns, a national referendum on the party in power.

"I think that two-thirds of the American people think the country is going in the wrong direction," " said Senator Barack Obama, the first-term Illinois Democrat who is widely viewed as one of the party's promising stars. "They're not sure yet whether Democrats can move it in the right direction."

Mr. Obama said the Democratic Party had not seized the moment, adding: "We have been in a reactive posture for too long. I think we have been very good at saying no, but not good enough at saying yes."

Some Democrats said they favored remaining largely on the sidelines while Republicans struggled under the glare of a corruption inquiry. And some said there was still time for the party to get its act together. But many others said the party needed to move quickly to offer a comprehensive governing agenda, even as they expressed concern about who could make the case.

Their concern was aggravated by the image of high-profile Democrats, including Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, challenging the legality of Mr. Bush's secret surveillance program this week at a time when the White House has sought to portray Democrats as weak on security.

"We're selling our party short; you've got to stand for a lot more than just blasting the other side," said Gov. Phil Bredesen of Tennessee. "The country is wide open to hear some alternatives, but I don't think it's wide open to all these criticisms. I am sitting here and getting all my e-mail about the things we are supposed to say about the president's speech, but it's extremely light on ideas. It's like, 'We're for jobs and we're for America.' "

To a certain extent, the frustrations afflicting Democrats are typical for a party out of power. In Congress, the Democrats have become largely marginalized by the Republican majority, depriving them of a ready platform either to make attacks or offer their own ideas. Presidential campaigns typically produce prominent party leaders, followed around the country by a cluster of reporters and television crews, but that is at least two years away.

Yet in many ways, the Democratic Party's problems seem particularly tangled today, a source of frustration to Democratic leaders as they have watched opinion polls indicating that the public is souring on the Republican Party and receptive to Democratic leadership.

And the problems are besetting Democrats at a pivotal moment, as they struggle to adapt to a shifting American political landscape, and a concerted effort by this White House to make permanent inroads among once traditional Democratic voters.

Since Mr. Bush's re-election, Democrats have been divided over whether to take on the Republicans in a more confrontational manner, ideologically and politically, or to move more forcefully to stake out the center on social and national security issues. They are being pushed, from the left wing of the party, to stand for what they say are the party's historical liberal values.

But among more establishment Democrats, there is concern that many of the party's most visible leaders -- among them, Howard Dean, the Democratic chairman; Senator John Kerry, the party's 2004 presidential candidate; Mr. Kennedy; Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House minority leader; and Al Gore, who has assumed a higher profile as the party heads toward the 2008 presidential primaries -- may be flawed messengers.

In this view, the most visible Democrats are vulnerable to Republican attacks portraying them as out of the mainstream on issues including security and budget-cutting.

One of the party's most prominent members, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, has been relatively absent for much of this debate, a characteristic display of public caution that her aides say reflects her concern for keeping focused on her re-election bid. Mrs. Clinton, who has only nominal opposition, declined requests for an interview to discuss her views of the party.

Mr. Kerry said the party's authority had been diluted because of the absence of one or two obvious leaders, though he expressed confidence that would change.

"We are fighting to find a voice under difficult circumstances, and I'm confident, over the next few months, you are going to see that happen," Mr. Kerry said in an interview. "Our megaphone is just not as large as their megaphone, and we have a harder time getting that message out, even when people are on the same page."

Beyond that, while there is a surfeit of issues for Democrats to use against Republicans -- including corruption, the war in Iraq, energy prices and health care -- party leaders are divided about what Democrats should be talking about and about how soon they should engage in the debate.

In a speech last week in Washington and in an interview, Senator Evan Bayh of Indiana, who is considering a run for president in 2008, sharply criticized fellow Democrats who were arguing that the party should focus only on domestic issues and turn away from national security, since that has been the strong suit for this White House since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11.

"I think the Republicans are ripe for the taking on this issue," Mr. Bayh said in the interview, "but not until we rehabilitate our own image. I think there's a certain element of denial about how we are viewed, perhaps incorrectly but viewed nonetheless, by many Americans as being deficient on national security."

In his speech, to the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Mr. Bayh said: "As Democrats, we have a patriotic duty and political imperative to lay out our ideas for protecting America. Frankly, our fellow citizens have doubts about us. We have work to do."

Some Democrats argued that the party had time to put up its ideas, and that it would be smarter to wait until later, when voters would be paying attention.

"When you bring it out early, you are going to leave it open for the spinmeisters in Rove's machine, the Republican side, to tear it to pieces," said Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois.

But former Senator John Edwards of North Carolina, the party's 2004 vice-presidential nominee and a prospective presidential candidate for 2008, said he thought Americans were eager to hear the contrasting case.

"What the American people are hungry to hear from us is, what is the difference?" Mr. Edwards said in an interview. "What will we do? How will we deal with the corruption issue in Washington? How will we deal with the huge moral issues that we have at home? This is a huge opportunity for our party to show what we are made of."

Historically at least, Democrats should be in a strong position. The out-of-power party typically gains seats in the midterm elections of a president's second term. And Democrats said they had a particularly compelling case for voting out the party in power this year because of investigations centered on the White House and Congress, including the influence-peddling case involving the lobbyist Jack Abramoff.

"We're going to keep hammering this," said Mr. Dean, the party chairman, referring to the scandals. "One thing the Republicans have taught us is that values and character matter."

Yet some Democrats warned that it would be a mistake to talk only about ethics.

"It's absolutely required that the party talk about things in addition to the Abramoff scandal," said Martin Frost, former leader of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. "I think the climate is absolutely right to take back the House or the Senate or both. But you can't do it without a program."

And Mr. Bayh said, "I don't believe we will win by just not being them."

Ms. Pelosi of California, the House Democratic leader, did not dispute that argument. But, pointing to the Democratic strategy in defeating Mr. Bush's Social Security proposal last year, she said there was no rush.

"People said, 'You can't beat something with nothing,' " she said, arguing that the Democrats had in fact accomplished precisely that this year. "I feel very confident about where we are."

And Senator Barbara Boxer, also a California Democrat, said: "We have a strategy. First is to convince the American people that what's happening in Washington is not working. We have achieved that. Now we have to, at this stage, convince people that we are the ones to bring positive change."
117 2006-02-08 In 1979, he helped found the National Black Pastors Conference, a group of 3,000 Protestant and Roman Catholic black priests and ministers, and later led the organization. He said he believed that black churches, banded together, could be a strong political force, one not as dependent on white benefactors as many civil rights organizations were.

"We have our finger on all the black churches in this country," Dr. Jones said in an interview with The Times in 1980. "Just imagine 12,000 black churches saying, 'Go out and vote.' We could change the nation and change the world."

After serving as the New York chairman of Operation Breadbasket, the economic development arm of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, he succeeded the Rev. Jesse Jackson as the national chairman.

Dr. Jones did not play things safe. When Rudolph W. Giuliani was running for mayor in 1993, he said, "Elements that can best be described as fascist seem to have grown up and flowered around Mr. Giuliani."

Mayor David N. Dinkins, who was standing by Dr. Jones's side at a rally at Bethany when he made the remark, quickly disavowed it.

In 1988, when a black girl, Tawana Brawley, contended that she had been beaten and raped by white racists, Dr. Jones came to her aid. He housed her mother, Glenda, in his church for 40 days so she could avoid testifying under oath. (A state grand jury later ruled that Tawana's accusations were lies.)

Dr. Jones provided platforms for controversial black speakers like Leonard Jeffries, a professor at the City College of New York who has been widely criticized for anti-Semitic statements. When Alton H. Maddox Jr., one of Tawana Brawley's lawyers, was ordered to appear before a grievance committee questioning his conduct, he took Dr. Jones with him.

Mr. Maddox said in a speech reprinted in The Amsterdam News in 1993 that he had chosen Dr. Jones because he was "big enough and bad enough."

Dr. Jones said the Rev. Al Sharpton's mother asked him to look after her son when he was a boy; he later recruited Mr. Sharpton as a youth leader in Operation Breadbasket. In 1994, Mr. Sharpton, a Pentecostal minister from the age of 10, went to Dr. Jones's church to be baptized as a Baptist.

"Reverend Jones has always been an anchor to my family," Mr. Sharpton told The Times.

William Augustus Jones Jr. was born on Feb. 24, 1934, in Louisville, Ky. He graduated with honors in sociology from the University of Kentucky, where he regretted that he could not play basketball because blacks were then barred from the team.

He graduated from Crozer Theological Seminary, near Chester, Pa., the same seminary attended by King. He later earned a doctorate from the school, now part of Colgate Rochester Crozer Divinity School.

He enlisted in the Army in 1954 as a private and was discharged in 1956 as a first lieutenant. He was called to the ministry of the First Baptist Church of Paschal in Philadelphia.

He joined Bethany in September 1962 and within 10 months was leading 75 ministers in a protest at the State University of New York's Health Science Center at Brooklyn, charging discriminatory hiring practices by unions. More than 700 people were arrested, including Dr. Jones's own children; in the aftermath, blacks increased their participation in the building trades.

The A.&P. protest, which involved raucous demonstrations at the company's headquarters in Manhattan, also resulted in changing some hiring and buying practices.

In 1969, Dr. Jones became the first African-American to run for Brooklyn borough president, finishing third in a field of four.

Dr. Jones is survived by his wife, the former Natalie Barkley Brown; a son, William Augustus III of Lexington, Ky.; three daughters, Elsa Elisabeth Jones of Rocky Hill, Conn., and Lesley-Diann Jones and Jennifer Jones Austin, both of Brooklyn; three brothers, the Rev. Lamont Jones Sr. of Lexington, the Rev. Henry Wise Jones of Atlanta and Byron Timothy Jones of Frankfort, Ky.; two sisters, Phyllis Jones Meade and Sylvia Jones Harris, both of Atlanta; and eight grandchildren.
118 2006-02-08 The largest study ever to ask whether a low-fat diet reduces the risk of getting cancer or heart disease has found that the diet has no effect.     The $415 million federal study involved nearly 49,000 women ages 50 to 79 who were followed for eig...
119 2006-02-08 James F. Avigliano, the Passaic prosecutor, said recently that his detectives believed that Dr. Angara was killed in "an altercation that got out of hand, one of these spur-of-the-moment things."

But he added, "Absent a motive, absent any evidence, absent any witnesses, it is a very, very difficult case to solve."

Because of the restricted access at the plant, which is operated by the Passaic Valley Water Commission, investigators are nearly certain that one of the plant's 85 employees at the time killed Dr. Angara. They had focused their investigation on eight "people of interest" and then came up with three "people of real interest," according to the authorities.

One of those three had worked for Dr. Angara, knew she had been planning to go to the basement and reported finding pieces of a beaker to his supervisor the day she disappeared, the police said. All three were asked to take a lie detector test. One passed and one refused, while the results for the third were inconclusive, according to Detective Lt. James Wood of the Passaic County prosecutor's office.

"Unless there is some new bit of information or evidence that comes to light, we have exhausted every possible way we can go on this case," Lt. Wood said.

Dr. Angara, who was 43, was married and had three children, now ages 10, 14 and 20. She was a senior chemist at the plant, where she had worked for 12 years. She had earned her Ph.D. in organic chemistry at New York University.

"This is a happy nest, and that nest was removed, destroyed," said her husband, Jaya Angara, 51, a banker. He added that he was angry and frustrated with the lack of progress by the police.

Several of Dr. Angara's co-workers, who would speak only if granted anonymity because they still work at the plant, described Dr. Angara as bright and cheerful. But one of them also said that some of her co-workers -- who he said owed their jobs to politics -- may have resented her and kept her from being promoted because they were jealous of her Ph.D. and her expertise. "A lot of people feel threatened all the time, afraid she may take their job," the worker said.

Dr. Angara's husband and one of her sisters, Saranya Rao, said that the week before Dr. Angara was killed, she was out sick, and the plant had problems with a slight pink discoloration in the water. It was fixed, but not according to the protocol at the plant. After Dr. Angara returned, she was asked to retrain people on how to handle such problems. Her relatives wondered whether that had led to her killing.

The family had also raised the possibility that her death was connected to the failure last August of the new plant's ozone system to purify the water. Prosecutors said that this angle had not proved fruitful; they noted that the system had failed because of inadequate welding.

Mr. Angara had also questioned why a sensor in the tank was broken and did not register the disturbance when she was thrown in. This has led him to believe, he said, that "there are other people helping this killer."

But John F. Latoracca, the county's chief assistant prosecutor, said the sensor had not been tampered with, and may not have been sensitive enough to register such a disturbance. Investigators also looked into the issue of the pinkish water and concluded it was not related to the murder, he said. They believe it is more likely that her killer acted alone.

The family's lawyer, John Leonard, said he is in the process of asking the New Jersey attorney general and the United States attorney to join the investigation. He also said he was exploring the possibility of filing a civil lawsuit for wrongful death.

Mr. Avigliano, the prosecutor, said he was open to having other law enforcement agencies look into the case. "If anyone feels that some agency out there can do a better job than the homicide detectives in my office, they can feel free to come in here," he said.

A year after Dr. Angara's death, some of her former co-workers said morale was low at the plant. "To know somebody in the plant did something like this, of course it's an eerie feeling," said one.

The worker also said the killing raised serious questions about security at the plant, which recently signed a $650,000 contract for armed guards to patrol inside and outside the facility 24 hours a day.

"If somebody could go and do one of the worst crimes you could do, taking a person's life, of course, who knows what they could do to a water supply," he said.

For investigators, about all that is left to do is speculate.

"You have longstanding, deep-seated resentment on one end of the spectrum, or the purely spontaneous, where she saw somebody doing something and confronted them, that kind of thing," said Mr. Latoracca, the assistant prosecutor.

"It could be anywhere in between."
120 2006-02-08 Pfizer said yesterday that it would explore spinning off or selling its consumer health care division, a unit that had $3.9 billion in sales last year and whose brands include Listerine mouthwash and Benadryl allergy medicine.

Pfizer, the world's largest drug maker, has taken several steps recently to bolster its flagging stock, including raising its dividend and trying to streamline its operations. Spinning off the consumer unit would be another step to please Wall Street, because investors view the division as outside Pfizer's core business of prescription drugs, analysts said.

The unit accounted for less than 8 percent of Pfizer's $52 billion in sales last year, and about 4 percent of operating profit. Based on the price-sales and price-earnings multiples of other consumer products companies, the division could be worth $8 billion or more as an independent company. Pfizer did not disclose whether it expected to lay off any of the division's 3,500 employees as part of a sale.

"It's at the margin," said Robert Hazlett, an analyst at SunTrust Robertson Humphrey. "It's $3 billion and change of a $50 billion company, so it's not inconsequential, but is it critical to the growth of the company going forward? No."

Besides Listerine and Benadryl, the unit's other well-known brands include Rogaine, Zantac, Rolaids, Bengay and Lubriderm. The unit has nine brands with more than $100 million in annual sales, according to Pfizer.

Pfizer made the announcement yesterday afternoon, after the close of trading on the New York Stock Exchange. In after-hours trading, Pfizer shares rose almost 46 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $25.64.
121 2006-02-08 The moves are eventually expected to reduce the company's annual structural costs by more than $900 million, with the dividend cut helping preserve $565 million in precious cash each year. Over all, the company is aiming to cut about $7 billion from its annual structural costs.

But two big steps that have been widely anticipated by G.M. were not part of the company's announcement.

G.M. did not disclose any developments in the long-awaited sale of a portion of its G.M.A.C. finance unit. Nor did it disclose an agreement concerning the U.A.W. and the Delphi Corporation, G.M.'s former parts unit, which is operating under bankruptcy protection.

As a result, many analysts said the troubles at G.M., which lost $8.6 billion in 2005, were far from over.

"We believe that there is more to come," John Murphy, an industry analyst with Merrill Lynch, wrote in a research note. "Ultimately, we believe that an active downsizing of the company to a defensible market share will be necessary."

On Tuesday, G.M. shares fell 53 cents, to $22.81. Before Tuesday, G.M. last cut its dividend in 1992, amid a deep financial crisis that resulted in the ouster of its top management team.

Along with its losses, G.M.'s market share in the United States fell to just over 26 percent last year, its lowest since 1925. In November, G.M. said it would close all or part of 12 plants and eliminate 30,000 jobs through 2008.

Yet, its biggest shareholder, Kirk Kerkorian, wants the company to do more -- and G.M. is at least partly listening. Its latest moves were announced a day after the company gave a seat on its board to Jerome B. York, an adviser to Mr. Kerkorian.

Mr. York, in a speech in Detroit on Jan. 10, called for many of the steps that G.M. took, saying the company needed to move more swiftly on the turnaround effort that began late last year.

But the company also rejected several of Mr. York's recommendations, like broader cuts in executive pay and paring back its car and truck divisions.

Moreover, G.M.'s chief executive, Rick Wagoner, declined at a news conference Tuesday to predict when G.M. would return to profitability, resisting Mr. York's call for the company to set clear financial goals.

"We will let you know when we think we are ready to do that," Mr. Wagoner said, citing more "big issues" that G.M. needs to address.

As recently as Jan. 6, Mr. Wagoner did not seem ready to take even the actions G.M. announced today. At that time, he said that shareholders had suffered enough, given the 52 percent decline in the value of G.M. shares last year.

As part of the turnaround effort, Mr. Wagoner, who received $2.2 million in 2005, will take a 50 percent pay cut, to $1.1 million. a

A vice chairman, Robert A. Lutz, who earns $1.55 million a year, will take a 30 percent cut, as will John Devine, another vice chairman, and the chief financial officer, Frederick Henderson.

G.M.'s chief counsel, Thomas Gottshalk, will take a 10 percent cut. Cash compensation for G.M. directors, now $60,000, will fall by half. The directors also receive $140,000 in shares each year.

Mr. York wanted G.M. to do more, calling for a sliding scale of cuts affecting executives, managers and salaried employees. Such steps have taken place at bankrupt airlines like Delta and Northwest.

At Delta, for example, Gerald Grinstein's annual salary was set at $500,000, substantially below market levels, when he took over as chief executive in 2004 and he forfeited half his salary that year.

In 2005, Mr. Grinstein's salary was cut by 10 percent to $450,000 in line with the across-the-board reduction applied to all nonpilot employees.

At Ford Motor, the chief executive, William Clay Ford Jr., whose family-controlled company lost $1.1 billion in North America last year, said last year that he would not accept compensation until Ford was back on its feet.

In 1978, Lee A. Iacocca, then chief executive of the beleaguered Chrysler Corporation, reduced his pay to $1 a year, after union members took a $2 hourly pay cut. Both moves came in the wake of a federal bailout effort.

Union members have also contributed to the G.M. recovery effort, voting last year to accept a plan that would require them to pay for part of their health care coverage, which had been virtually free.

On Tuesday, G.M. said it was capping health care coverage for 100,000 retired salaried workers, and 26,000 active employees who joined the company before 1993. G.M. no longer offers health care coverage for its salaried retirees.

Retirees are also going to be called on to pay higher monthly contributions, deductibles, and prescription drug payments. G.M. said it also could make changes in retirees' medical, dental, vision and prescription drug plans. Eventually, G.M. said the move would save it $900 million a year, although its savings will begin only in 2007.

G.M. estimates that it spent $5.4 billion on its health care plan last year, or the equivalent of $5,090 a person. But a G.M. spokesman, Jerry Dubrowski, said the automaker could not estimate how much more its retired salaried workers would pay.

The company said it planned to freeze its retiree pension program, and introduce a defined-benefit plan or cash balance plan, as well as make other changes in its retirement program for future retirees. Current retirees and surviving spouses will not be affected, G.M. said. Details will not be made available until next month.

On Tuesday, the U.A.W.'s president, Ron Gettelfinger, said G.M. was doing "the right thing." Like Mr. York, Mr. Gettelfinger has called for shared sacrifices across the company.

But asked at a union conference in Washington whether his workers might contribute more, Mr. Gettelfinger said: "Absolutely not. We've done our share. We're ready to move forward."

For his part, Mr. Wagoner tried to play down suggestions that the company's moves were meant as a message to the U.A.W.

"This is the kind of thing we need to do," he said. "I don't have a big scoreboard in my office" depicting which groups had taken cuts, Mr. Wagoner said. "I think you can say the whole family is participating in the effort to turn G.M. around."

Mr. Wagoner said the auto company was approaching its problems "as systematically and aggressively as we can."

He said it was on track to reduce its structural costs by about $7 billion a year, including Tuesday's moves, or about one-sixth of its annual expenses. Yet, G.M. has estimated that it may have to pay as much as $12 billion to cover its liability from the bankruptcy of Delphi, a part of G.M. until 1999.

About 4,000 Delphi workers have the right to come back to G.M. if jobs are available for them, making G.M. responsible for the cost of their benefits. On Tuesday, the U.A.W. vice president, Richard Shoemaker, said the three parties -- G.M., the U.A.W. and Delphi -- were not making progress in their discussions.

Until the Delphi situation is resolved, analysts said, G.M. would have trouble completing its sale of a stake in G.M.A.C., the credit unit, a deal that would generate much-needed cash. While Tuesday's cuts will help the automaker save money, "these important wild cards have gotten lost in the shuffle," Mr. Murphy said.

Correction: February 9, 2006, Thursday A front-page article yesterday about a decision by General Motors to cut its dividend and the pay of some executives misstated the makeup of compensation for directors. They will forgo cash compensation and receive $100,000 in restricted stock -- not $30,000 in cash and $70,000 in stock.
122 2006-02-08 STOCK--Robert E., 75. Died February 6, 2006. Beloved husband of Nadine, father of Richard, Matthew and Wayne and their wives Dana, Irina and Melina. Loving grandfather of Gianna, Cooper, William, Maxim and Denis. Art teacher at Bayside High School...
123 2006-02-08 ROCHESTER, Feb. 7 - William F. Weld, campaigning for the Republican nomination for governor, intensified his attacks on Eliot Spitzer on Tuesday, criticizing the Democratic candidate for his positions on taxation.

Speaking to a Rotary club here, in Rochester, Mr. Weld cited reports that Mr. Spitzer, the state attorney general, would consider shifting the primary source of local government tax revenue from property taxes to income taxes if he were elected governor.

"I simply do not know how one does this without raising income taxes," said Mr. Weld, who served two terms as governor of Massachusetts. "When they get raised, they tend to get raised a lot, and quickly. It's a slippery slope and, in my view, not a way to go."

Instead, Mr. Weld called for amending the State Constitution to cap the property tax levy at 2.5 percent of a municipality's total property value and to limit subsequent increases to 2.5 percent of that amount per year, with an exception for new construction.

He also proposed limiting annual state spending to the previous year's tax revenue, adjusted for inflation and population growth, with half of any surplus going toward tax rebates and the other half into what he called a rainy-day fund to be used to make up emergency shortfalls.
124 2006-02-08 Carolyn L. Smith, the club's president, confirmed the controversy but said she was not sure how widespread the opposition is. "Fewer than dozens, I think," she said. "We have almost 800 members, and I'd be surprised if there wasn't someone unhappy about it."

Ms. Smith said that the sale had been discussed for more than a year before Grolier's council, the oversight body equivalent to a board, approved it, and that 14 of the 21 council members had voted in favor.

Six voted against, however, and some have continued to press their case, seeking legal counsel in hopes of finding a way to break the contract signed by the club. Ms. Smith, the one abstaining vote, said she had recused herself to avoid any appearance of conflict of interest because she is a member of Christ Church, which stands to receive $30 million for its air rights if the deal stands.

Getting the opponents of the sale to voice their concerns for the record has proved challenging. "I have very strong feelings about this thing, and while I'd love to tell you things, I'm in a position where I really can't," explained one club member who is opposed to the sale, echoing three others who offered similar reasons for speaking on the condition of anonymity. "I've been involved with this club for years. I know the people there, and I don't want to damage those friendships, which are very dear to me."

The space above the Grolier is crucial to the project because the Zeckendorfs can transfer only the air rights contiguous to the site where they plan to build. They cannot transfer the church's air space to their site without also having the club's.

Arthur Zeckendorf said he and his brother and partners, who consider the deal done, were paying a premium price.

"Also, there's really only one buyer for those air rights, us, because we own the buildings directly west of the club," he said. "It's not like they can go sell them to Donald Trump or somebody else for more."

Opponents on the council and other club members charge that the decision to sell was tainted by conflicts of interest, like the one Ms. Smith cited in recusing herself, and a failure to follow state legal restrictions governing the sale of major assets by nonprofit organizations.

They pointed to the vote of David Alan Richards, a real estate lawyer who is a member of the council and who served as an adviser to the club on the deal. Ms. Smith said the council had voted to allow him to continue to participate in the club's governance while serving as its business representative.

Some opponents are also concerned about the impact of the planned high-rise on their neighborhood and on the structural soundness of the 1917 town house cum clubhouse.

Their objections were aired at a meeting on Dec. 12, after Ms. Smith sent a letter to the membership about the council's plan to approve a sale. Two of the club's former presidents, William B. Warren and Robert D. Graff, rose to denounce the plan, according to members who attended.

And Leonard L. Milberg, chairman of Milberg Factors, vigorously opposed the sale and criticized Ms. Smith for having any part in it because of her membership in the church, according to four members who attended. The outburst by Mr. Milberg, who declined to comment, reduced Ms. Smith to tears and shocked the 40 to 50 Grolier members at the meeting.

"Several people expressed sort of regrets, and one member was violently opposed," recalled Stephen C. Massey, a book and manuscript appraiser and consultant who has appeared on Antiques Roadshow, though he did not name any members in particular.

Mr. Massey, who served on the council from 1993 until last spring, said he thought the deal to sell the air rights was "magnificent," though he would have preferred slightly different terms. "My rapture is heavily modified by the fact that I'd rather we had some real estate space in the new building and less money," he said.

Martin Hutner, another longtime member, said that Charles Tanenbaum, a well-known collector of 18th century books, maps and other documents, had proposed that the opponents raise an equivalent amount through donations. "Because he didn't like the idea of selling the air rights, Mr. Tanenbaum courageously offered $250,000," Mr. Hutner said. "But no one else in the room came forward."

Ms. Smith said the bulk of the $6.9 million the club will receive from the deal will go into its endowment, more than doubling it.

New York State law requires that certain types of nonprofit corporations, like the Grolier, seek court approval for major asset sales, that they notify the attorney general's office of their plans and that they obtain approval of the sale from a majority of their members.

Ms. Smith said that law applied only to the sale of what it calls "all or substantially all" of an organization's assets. "Our clubhouse itself is probably worth a minimum of $15 million, our endowment is about $5 million and our collection of books is worth at least $10 million," Ms. Smith said. "This is not a substantial asset for us."

A guide from the New York State attorney general's office on the sale of significant assets by nonprofit groups notes that there is no set standard for determining what constitutes a substantial asset. "Court approval is required where the asset to be sold represents a large portion of the corporation's assets," the guide states.

At the agreed-upon price, the Grolier's air represents roughly 20 percent of its assets. In the profit-making world, anything with a value of 5 percent or more of total assets is considered substantial.

M. Myers Mermel, a real estate broker who is working pro bono on the deal for Christ Church, said the church planned to sign its contract this week. It and the club will then seek court approval, he said.

The opposition from some Grolier members is unsettling to the church, which hopes to use the $30 million from its part of the deal on various missions to help the poor, Mr. Mermel said.

"Their case has no merit, but I've been surprised at the lengths to which they've gone to snatch defeat from the jaws of victory and put at risk the opportunity for this money to help so many needy people through the church," he said.
125 2006-02-08 G.M. Cuts Executive Pay, Halves Dividend And Changes Benefit Plans for Retirees  General Motors, under pressure to show its blue collar workers that investors and executives will also sacrifice to help overcome its deepest losses in more than a de...
126 2006-02-08 India forecast that economic growth would be 8.1 percent in the fiscal year that ends in March, exceeding the expectations of analysts. The government attributed the gain to robust growth in manufacturing and services and higher productivity in fa...
127 2006-02-09 Readers respond to David Brooks's Feb. 9 column, "Drafting Hitler": Joseph Dipierro, Raleigh, N.C.: Since the Cartoon Wars began, the hypocrisy of the American Right has been astounding. I have never heard so many people so passionately committed ...
128 2006-02-09 New shows in New York include "Elliot, a Soldier's Fugue" and "December Fools."...
129 2006-02-09 This e-mail from a University of Washington computer science professor is being passed around and it is pretty funny. One of them played around with the Zillow.com computerized home price estimator, branded as the Zestimator. (I had some problems ...
130 2006-02-09 Gail Berman, the president of Paramount, has complained that she is getting mau-maued by a bunch of underinformed bloggers, but more than the blogosphere is chattering about how fleeting her hold on the job might be. Brad Grey, head of Paramount, ...
131 2006-02-09 Every workplace that prides itself on banter or turmoil imagines it could become a television series. Most places couldn't. But whatever barber first laid down his scissors and said, "You know, we could do a show right here" — he, at least, was onto something.

O.K., maybe not a sitcom: "Barbershop: The Series" on Showtime is just all right, and "Cuts" on UPN doesn't look long for this world. But a reality show set in a barbershop is a remarkably promising idea, and not a new one. In 1894, the Edison company produced a silent short film called "The Barbershop." One summary goes: "Interior of Barber Shop. Man comes in, takes off his coat; sits down, smokes; is handed a paper by attendant, who points out a joke; both laugh. Meantime the man in the chair is shaved and has his hair cut. Very funny."

Into this noble tradition, then, comes "The Shop" on MTV. It's irresistible. Set in Mr. Rooney's Barbershop in Jamaica, Queens, the show gleefully loads the dice for MTV's audience. For one, the shop's owner is the rotund maestro Cory Rooney, a songwriter and record producer who has generated hits for Jennifer Lopez, Jessica Simpson and Mary J. Blige. His clients are not jobless no-hopers; they're stars. On the premiere last week, in walked Tony Yayo, the rapper and jailbird, and Chris Brown, the demure teenage rhythm-and-blues singer.

The other way the show is manipulated for maximum MTV-ness is that Mr. Rooney's has been outfitted with a giant plasma television that regularly plays new videos. When one comes up — and the image transfers suspiciously well from the shop's screen to our screen — the barbers all turn to watch it, comment on how well it works ("They got a lot of fine women in this video") and repeat the musician's name. There — a plug for MTV's poor old music videos, which can use all the attention they can get.

But this rigging and product placement does not obscure the central asset of the show: the warm rapport among the barbers. If Bobby, Pop, Teddy, Deb, Tim and Van were cast on their headshots I don't want to know about it; I want to believe they've been cutting hair and mouthing off for years, far from the cameras. In any case, what's good about their routine is how much they complain about their jobs. On the first episode, when Cory walks into the shop and announces that it's too early for so much hair on the floor — "I know you all don't cut this much; I know you all don't cut this fast" — the barbers reflexively pass the buck. Finally, it becomes clear it's the fault of Teddy, the handsome one.
132 2006-02-09 Dr. Taylor — who said he was not paid for his research, though the foundation did reimburse the university for its equipment and time — offered no final conclusions about the works' authenticity. But he said his finding put the onus on Mr. Matter to provide a plausible explanation for "why the patterns are different and why they're varying."

"Certainly my pattern analysis shouldn't be taken in isolation but should be integrated with all the known facts — including provenance, visual inspection and materials analysis," he said.

Yesterday, scholars associated with the effort to organize an exhibition of the newly found paintings said they did not feel Dr. Taylor's work yielded enough evidence to decide whether the paintings were real or not. Claude Cernuschi, a Pollock scholar and art historian at Boston College who is writing a chapter for a catalog to accompany the exhibition, said that more than 6 of the 24 paintings should have been examined. He added that simply because the six did not exhibit Pollock's signature patterns did not necessarily mean they were painted by someone else.

"Pollock's techniques was very experimental, and it could be that he started to test how the paint would behave rather than trying to make a bona-fide finished painting," he said.

Mr. Matter discovered the 24 paintings, along with 8 other drawings and pieces of ephemera thought to be by Pollock, among possessions that the elder Mr. Matter had left when he died in 1984. They were wrapped in brown paper inscribed in his father's handwriting, labeling the works as Pollocks painted in the late 1940's. After the paintings were discovered, Mr. Matter, with a Manhattan art dealer, Mark Borghi, sought the advice of Ellen G. Landau, the author of a well-regarded 1989 Pollock monograph and one of the world's most respected authorities on the artist's work.

Dr. Landau, a professor at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, came to the conclusion that the works were authentic and agreed to help with scholarship for an exhibition this year, the 50th anniversary of Pollock's death.

But after Dr. Landau's role in supporting the works was announced last spring, the Pollock-Krasner Foundation, which had declined to enter into authentication disputes for almost a decade, became involved. It enlisted Eugene V. Thaw, a veteran art dealer, and Francis V. O'Connor, an art historian, who wrote the four-volume catalogue raisonné, or complete listing, of Pollock's work. Both Mr. Thaw and Dr. O'Connor said their initial opinion was that the paintings were not by Pollock and could in fact have been painted by more than one artist; one of Mr. Thaw's theories is that they were the creations of Mercedes Matter and her art students, trying to imitate Pollock's technique.

Dr. O'Connor, Mr. Thaw and Dr. Landau had once worked as a team on the Pollock foundation's authentication board, examining and often discrediting paintings claimed to be originals. But the board disbanded in 1996 for reasons that remain unclear. And in the case of the newly discovered paintings, the sharp disagreement between Dr. Landau and her former colleagues has sometimes taken on personal overtones.

"I've spent nearly half my life working on Pollocks," Mr. Thaw said last year, "and if Ellen Landau's opinion prevails, people will happily buy them and they'll go into museums and books, but not the ones that I have anything to do with."

Dr. Landau, in a statement issued yesterday with Mr. Matter and Mr. Borghi, said: "Authentication in art is never a single test. A range of eminent scholars have spent the last year actively engaged in examining these works from historical, stylistic, archival and other analytical vectors. This is a full, rich picture of these works, which will be presented in a full-scale catalog as soon as it is completed."

The statement also called fractal analysis a "very new and contested field in art authentication" and criticized the foundation for not providing Dr. Taylor's analysis — which has been completed for several months — to Mr. Matter, saying that secrecy "impeded a scholarly debate and consensus."

In a later e-mail message, Dr. Landau added that she did not feel comfortable commenting directly on Dr. Taylor's report because the Pollock foundation had not provided it to her. She said she was continuing her research into the paintings and into the artistic relationship between Pollock and Herbert Matter, which she said she had found to be "nothing less than astonishing." Dr. O'Connor said that he had chosen the six paintings to be examined by Dr. Taylor. Three were selected because they were paintings that Mr. Matter had widely publicized and shown at a Web site, www.pollockexhibit.com. The other three, Dr. O'Connor said, were chosen as representative of the various styles among the 24 paintings.

Dr. O'Connor said in an interview that he did not exclude the possibility that some additional evidence — a letter from Pollock or a picture of him painting the works — could emerge to change his mind. But he said that Dr. Taylor's research had reinforced his initial doubts after examining the paintings.

"What I saw was that these works had very little connection if any with Pollock's oeuvre as we know it, and further, that they appeared to me to be painted by more than one artist," he said.

The foundation said it was withholding final opinions on the attribution of the newly discovered paintings until further research was done and scholars reached a consensus.
133 2006-02-09 As for the state's $75 gift ban, the commission has until recently interpreted it as pertaining to separate gifts. As a result, lobbyists could buy legislators gifts of $74.99 or less -- dinners, rounds of golf, concert tickets -- as often as they pleased.

But it is not certain that the new policy of an annual limit will stick. The lobbying panel's administrative staff is enforcing the ban only because the commission last year adopted a set of guidelines used by the state's Ethics Commission that members did not fully realize included a new gift policy.

On Wednesday, the commission deferred voting on whether to support the new interpretation until its meeting on Feb. 23, since three new commissioners were appointed to the six-member panel this week.

Among the veteran commissioners, Andrew G. Celli Jr. and Patrick J. Bulgaro, appointees of Democratic legislative leaders, said they supported the new policy, while Kenneth J. Baer, an appointee of the Republican Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, would not say how he would vote.

Civic groups were disappointed that the commission did not vote Wednesday.

"There's not a lot of deep thought on whether you support a gift ban of $75 per incident or one for $75 per year," said Blair Horner, the legislative director of the New York Public Interest Research Group.

The stricter gift ban would hardly end the flow of money. Aside from current loopholes that permit Montreal rail excursions, for example, lobbyists can pour money into campaign accounts that legislators use for meals, hotels or travel.

On Wednesday, in something of a reversal from his previous position, Mr. Grandeau said that he would support recommending to the Legislature a total gift ban with no exceptions. The commission would need to approve such a proposal.

The commission also reached a settlement in a matter involving David L. Paterson, the Democratic Senate minority leader who is now a candidate for lieutenant governor. Last year, Mr. Paterson flew to Albany from Westchester on a developer's jet while ill with pneumonia so he could attend the governor's State of the State address.

On Wednesday, the commission imposed a $13,500 civil fine on the developer, of which Mr. Paterson will pay $4,500.

"Now that the lobbying commission has adjusted its rules, I will comply with its determination," Mr. Paterson said in a statement.
134 2006-02-09 Under pressure, phone companies and cable providers are altering their services to compete with upstarts like Vonage, which are not dependent on big capital investments and are not subject to federal regulation. Cable providers like Cablevision and Time Warner Cable, and even some Bell companies like AT&T, appear to be cutting into Vonage's business by offering Internet phone services.

As a result, Vonage's losses have been growing even as revenue has grown -- to $174 million for the first nine months of 2005, compared with sales of $79.7 million for the whole of 2004. Its loss for the first nine months of 2005 was $189.6 million, up from $71.5 million for 2004.

The big question for Vonage, said Maribel Lopez, a telecommunications industry analyst with Forrester Research, is "how can it keep the momentum going before the cable companies turn on the big engines?"

In its filing, Vonage said it intended to use the proceeds of the public offering to help develop technology and, in particular, to expand its marketing to new customers. It is not uncommon for technology companies to spend millions to attract customers even though they may not yet be profitable. That strategy failed for many companies in the dot-com era, but it worked for others, including wireless providers and Amazon.com.

"To grow our revenue and our customer base and enhance awareness of our brand, we have chosen to spend significant amounts on our marketing activities and we intend to continue to do so," the company wrote in its offering. It said that it now had 1.4 million customers, around one-quarter of the VoIP market, according to industry analysts.

Ms. Lopez said that it cost Vonage $215 to acquire each customer, and that was an expensive proposition as the company tried to keep its lead over new competitors, like the cable companies. The Vonage filing does not indicate the date of the proposed offering and the company declined to comment further. It did not disclose the number of shares to be offered or the shares' price range.

"The I.P.O. is useful at this point," said Ford Cavallari, senior vice president with Adventis, a telecommunications consulting firm. Vonage "needs the money to gain scale and to become profitable."

Ms. Lopez estimated that some cable companies were gaining market share. Time Warner reported a million digital phone customers in December, and Cablevision was estimated to have 740,000 at the end of 2005.

In its filing, Vonage said that Jeffrey Citron, a company founder, was giving up his duties as chief executive to become chairman of the board and chief strategist. Michael Snyder, who has been president of ADT Security Services, succeeds him as chief executive. Mr. Citron said in a statement that he was hoping to focus more on marketing.

But the timing of the management changes raises questions, particularly given Mr. Citron's past history with the securities regulators, said Mr. Cavallari, the telecommunications industry consultant.

In 1999, Mr. Citron resigned as chief executive of Datek Online, where he had helped pioneer the concept of day trading but also drew scrutiny from regulators who asserted that Mr. Citron and associates exploited loopholes in automated trading systems. Under a settlement in 2003, Mr. Citron paid a fine of $22.5 million, though he admitted no wrongdoing, and was banned from the securities business.

Mr. Citron's move to step aside as chief executive at Vonage "was a bit of a surprise," Mr. Cavallari said, adding, "It might be a way to assuage any potential concerns the broader markets might have" about Mr. Citron's past.

At the same time, Mr. Cavallari said, Vonage could miss Mr. Citron as chief executive because he is seen as innovative and has a great knowledge of the Internet phone industry.

Timothy Horan, a telecommunications industry analyst for CIBC World Markets, said that the Vonage public offering was good for consumers because it would give the company more money to develop and market its products -- and, in turn, to further its challenge to the traditional telecommunications companies.

The offering, he said, "makes the telephone and cable companies a little bit nervous."

Correction: February 10, 2006, Friday An article in Business Day yesterday about the initial public offering of Vonage Holdings, a provider of Internet-based telephone service, misstated a precedent. Vonage is not the first Internet phone company to go public; several have already done so.
135 2006-02-09 The place was New York City. Crime was the dish of the day, and the main course was injury to an animal with a side of petty larceny. The victim was Burt. Burt was a Boston terrier. He was about to find a friend who looked more like a foe.

The case unraveled over six months, with an indictment this week. The details spilled from court documents and interviews with investigators and Burt's owner, Raymond Reid.

For four years, Burt had been under the care of Steven Vassall, 28, an unemployed lab technician who styled himself a licensed veterinarian. Mr. Vassall gave Burt vaccinations and heartworm treatments and sometimes boarded him. Mr. Reid liked Mr. Vassall. Mr. Vassall made house calls.

Mr. Reid left for vacation in August, but he got an urgent call from Mr. Vassall. Burt was in a bad way. Burt had swallowed a foreign object. Burt was going to die.

Mr. Reid came home and said he wanted to see Burt. Mr. Vassall let Burt out of the car and drove away. Burt had an open wound along his abdomen, and he was licking the blood.
136 2006-02-09 Vonage, an Internet Phone Provider, Files for an Initial Public Offering  Vonage Holdings, a provider of Internet-based telephone service, filed for an initial public offering with the Securities and Exchange Commission to sell up to $250 million ...
137 2006-02-09 THE ponytail, the default hairstyle of lazy people, is making a play for the red carpet. No longer emblematic of a paparazzi shame payday (imagine Melanie Griffith circa 1986, when jeans and a ponytail meant a presumed trip to the gastroenterologist), ponytails, like jeans, can now be paired with diamonds. They can be paired with bronze satin.

Ponytails are no longer the surrender flag waved by the fashion maladroit, the new mom, the soccer mom, the hungover mom, the shirking celebrity, the gym enthusiast or the roots-showing victim of a bad hair day.

The ponytail is a nod to our more tousled and casual American roots (think of Marilyn Monroe in "The Misfits" or Ali McGraw in "Love Story"), an impromptu style born not of beauty anxieties, but of industry. Why do you pull your hair into a hasty ponytail? Because you're about to do something. The hair must be out of the way so you can pore over that international torts tome. You are tousled because you have better things to do than detousle yourself: you are working.

Then again, some modern ponytails suggest a very different kind of work. As with all so-called natural hairstyles, like the bed-head craze of yore, the perfectly tousled ponytail requires a paid wrangler with a strange assortment of tools and a can of ozone-destroying hair poly.

Steven Berg, a hair stylist at Pashah on the Upper East Side, talked me down. "There is no perfect ponytail," he said, but even that must be qualified. There are rules, which are yours to respect or ignore.
138 2006-02-09 A federal judge in Washington has dismissed the main part of a lawsuit brought by four former Guantánamo detainees who were seeking damages from Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and other military officials who the suit said were responsible ...
139 2006-02-09 Every year, 950,000 people and 500,000 cars take the 75-minute ferry ride. The fee is $41 one-way for vehicles and $15 for walk-ons. The regulars include briefcase-toting sales representatives, bankers, computer workers, backpack-wearing house painters and construction workers. The new surcharge has meant delays of up to an hour as the fee is collected from grumbling commuters, making them late for work, dinner and other engagements.

They have been carping so vociferously over the last few days that the Port Authority hired a city police officer to stand by its collectors as they gathered the surcharge from passengers waiting to board. On Wednesday, the collector was Suleyman Haj, an immigrant from Somali. He greeted people with a dazzling smile, but his limited English prevented him from responding to irritated passengers like Jonathan Bruzas, an insurance executive.

"I don't even know what it's for," said Mr. Bruzas, who was sitting in an idling car, waiting to board. "What's it for? He doesn't speak English."

"Is it a gas surcharge?" asked his business partner, Pat Dill.

The $1 actually is being charged by the Bridgeport Port Authority, a quasi-public agency that oversees the operation of the dock, to defray the cost of defending against a lawsuit filed three years ago by its tenant, the Bridgeport & Port Jefferson Steamboat Company, the operator of the ferry, said Joseph A. Riccio, executive director of the Port Authority.

That lawsuit has cost the authority "several hundred thousand dollars in legal fees," he said.

"We expect this to be a temporary surcharge; we have every intention to remove it as soon as this matter is resolved," Mr. Riccio wrote in a letter given to commuters on Feb. 1.

Mr. Riccio estimated in an interview on Wednesday that the surcharge could net annual revenues of $300,000 to $400,000. He said that he had received "several nasty letters" and that people had been "mouthy" to the police about the surcharge.

"Nothing is worth the aggravation we've gotten," he said.

So, the surcharge is not worth it?

"Ask me in two years."

The lawsuit questions the legality of a tariff the Port Authority has imposed on tickets since 1993, Frederick A. Hall, vice president and general manager for the Bridgeport & Port Jefferson company, said.

That lawsuit awaits a trial date. Bridgeport's mayor, John M. Fabrizi, said on Wednesday that he urged the parties in his office last Friday to go to court as soon as possible, a request agreed to by both sides.

After receiving letters and phone calls of complaint from dozens of passengers, the Port Authority allowed those who buy monthly passes to pay a $5 a monthly fee to cover the daily surcharge. The tickets of these passengers are stamped with a blue star to indicate they have paid, but many said the collectors did not recognize the stamp.

"They don't believe us when we show them we've paid," said Mr. Bhadra, a computer associate. "It's as if no one has told them, so you have to argue about it."

Jennifer Abruzzo, 46, an investment banker and ferry commuter, said: "We don't know who is right and who is wrong. We just know the passengers are suffering."
140 2006-02-09 But an agreement with the Philharmonic players changed the fee structure, Mr. Mehta said, and allowed the moves. Instead of receiving flat fees and relinquishing rights, the musicians will share in any future revenues.

It is by no means clear whether the deals will be profitable. The New World project is going forward only because of foundation support.

As for the possibilities of making money from downloading, Mr. Mehta said: "There will be some money to be made. But in the heyday of the record industry, artists made money but orchestra institutions never made that much money. What it did was really provide income for the musicians. It made them feel worthwhile. It was a great calling card."

In the rubble of the current classical recording landscape, all sorts of experiments are being tried. Opera houses are providing online streaming. The Sydney Symphony in Australia will provide 10 streamed and downloadable concerts. The London Symphony Orchestra produces its own CD's. The Philadelphia Orchestra has a three-year deal with the Ondine label, under which it will produce its own concerts and Ondine will distribute and market them. The Milwaukee Symphony this year began MSO Classics, which offers concerts for downloading on iTunes.

"This is such a new world to all of us," Mr. Mehta said. "We don't know at this stage what the market is for it." In the Philharmonic's case, Deutsche Grammophon will market the recordings and pay the orchestra a percentage of revenues.

Billboard magazine recently reported that the downloading of digital albums grew 94 percent in 2005, compared with a 15 percent decline in album sales.

The Los Angeles Philharmonic is negotiating with Universal to make its concerts available for download. Its music director, Esa-Pekka Salonen, predicted the death of CD's in a recent interview, saying that his children did not go to stores for music but used their iPods.

Mr. Mehta described the recording plans during a news conference to announce the orchestra's 2006-7 season, its 165th.

Two major commissions will be played: a trombone concerto by Melinda Wagner, to be performed by the orchestra's principal trombonist, Joseph Alessi, and a piano concerto by Mr. Salonen, who will conduct. It will be his first appearance with the orchestra since his 1986 debut.

Three previously announced long-term relationships will start next season, with Riccardo Muti conducting four weeks of concerts and David Robertson and Alan Gilbert two weeks each. Colin Davis will mark his 80th birthday with a Mozart program. The early-music specialists Harry Bicket and Bernard Labadie will make their first appearances with the orchestra.

The Philharmonic will follow recent performances of "Candide" and "Sweeney Todd" with a semistaged performance of Stephen Sondheim's "Company." "The orchestra can swing," Mr. Mehta said.

Mr. Maazel will conduct six programs of Brahms, the first time he will have done any of the symphonies since taking over the orchestra. His predecessor, Mr. Masur, did them often and well, he said. "I felt we should have a decent waiting period," he added.

Next season will be Mr. Maazel's fifth as music director, with two more to go, and he implied that he would not be extending the contract. "By the end of my fifth season," he said, "I will start to gradually think how sad it will be to leave the orchestra after my seventh."
141 2006-02-09 Elliot Gould and Connie Stevens, above right, were among members of the Screen Actors Guild and the Writers Guild of America, West, who picketed the Beverly Hills Hotel in Los Angeles yesterday morning to protest a conference on product integratio...
142 2006-02-09 The MetroStars won an M.L.S. lottery for the rights to David Arvizu, a 17-year-old striker from Santa Ana, Calif.   JACK BELL (NYT)...
143 2006-02-09 Mr. Weld said he believed his fiscal record -- particularly, cutting taxes 19 times as governor of Massachusetts -- would ultimately win over Conservatives.

" 'High wall' is how Mike put it to me," Mr. Weld said of Mr. Long's assessment of his chances. "I hear Conservatives saying the economic issues are predominant to social issues. If that were true I'd be running away with this. But I'm going to see the Conservatives Monday and play straight baseball and hope for the best."

Some Republicans believe the Conservatives will ultimately cut a deal to support Mr. Weld. But Conservative leaders say they are ready to lose with their own horse and settle for a consolation prize: winning enough votes to regain their cherished third position on the ballot, which they had lost to the Independence Party. Vote totals for each party decide the order on the ballot.

"There are a lot of Conservatives who would rather show some guts and go with a guy who really shares our values, and at least win the third position, rather than go with Weld," said Ralph Lorigo, the influential Conservative leader in Erie County. "The Republicans need to realize, our ideals matter to us."

Mr. Weld's three Republican rivals, meanwhile, have begun battling for the Conservative endorsement. Each is trying to become the anti-Weld, following the news that Tom Golisano, a popular upstate Republican, will not run.

One of those rivals, John Faso, came under a surprise attack this week by a Conservative ally of another candidate, Assemblyman Patrick Manning, over his work as a registered lobbyist in 2005. Also this week, Mr. Manning and the third rival to Mr. Weld, Randy A. Daniels, won new endorsements from Conservative and Republican leaders and stepped up their overtures to others by professing their loyalty to the Second Amendment, lower taxes and Ronald Reagan.

Mr. Weld, who was also a former United States Justice Department official in the 1980's, tried to outflank his rivals on Tuesday in a speech upstate, where he praised his "old boss," Mr. Reagan, and described himself as "a supply-sider."

Conservatives often note how their party provided the margin of victory for George E. Pataki when he unseated Mario M. Cuomo in 1994, with their ballot line giving Mr. Pataki more than 300,000 votes. In the election before that, in 1990, the Conservatives ran their own candidate, Herbert London (who endorsed Mr. Weld on Monday); the Republican candidate, Pierre A. Rinfret, suffered a crushing defeat. Mr. Weld's opponents are mindful of that history.

"If the Conservatives run their own candidate, the Republican is doomed on Election Day, pure and simple," said Mr. Daniels, who was until recently secretary of state under Governor Pataki, who is leaving office this year after winning three terms as a Republican-Conservative candidate.

"What you're seeing now are other candidates who are desperate for the Conservative nod, who are trying to explain away the past or reinvent themselves," Mr. Daniels argued. He was referring to Mr. Weld, who now says he opposes gay marriage, and Mr. Faso, who is trying to shrug off the lobbyist label.

In essence, the Conservative Party is playing a game of chicken with the Republicans, in hopes of foisting its preferred candidate, probably Mr. Faso, on them instead of Mr. Weld.

This is the strategy: The Conservatives are threatening to select their own nominee before the Republicans designate one at their convention in May. Mr. Faso, a former assemblyman who was the Republican-Conservative nominee for comptroller in 2002, has a strong edge right now among the 350 committeemen, Mr. Long said. If Conservatives pick Mr. Faso, the Republicans could face a choice of going with Mr. Faso or eventually losing the general election in a Weld-Faso split.

All four Republican candidates have told Mr. Long that, if endorsed, they will run on the Conservative ballot line even if they do not get the Republican line as well. Mr. Faso, in an interview, said he knew he could not win on the Conservative line only but did not expect it to come to that.

"I think most Republican Party officials know they can't win without Conservative support," said Mr. Faso, whose opposition to abortion rights and pledges to cut taxes and state spending has won him Conservative allies.

The state Republican Party chairman, Stephen J. Minarik III, who is supporting Mr. Weld, acknowledged there were "risks" for both parties if they nominated different candidates. The Conservatives might have a hard time winning at least 50,000 votes, the number required to stay on the ballot in the next election. And the Republicans, of course, might lose.

"I hope it doesn't come to a split, believe me," Mr. Minarik said.
144 2006-02-09 So many companies landed in the cross hairs of asbestos litigation because the material, which was inexpensive, versatile and fireproof, was widely used in manufacturing for much of the 20th century.

It is no surprise that McDermott is in favor of the legislation. It has more than $600 million riding on the outcome of the debate. In 1978, McDermott acquired Babcock & Wilcox -- which used asbestos in the boilers it made -- along with its asbestos liability. Overwhelmed by asbestos claims, Babcock & Wilcox sought bankruptcy protection in 2000.

Under a plan that would allow it to emerge from bankruptcy as soon as this month, Babcock & Wilcox created a trust to compensate victims. That trust will initially be funded with $350 million from the company. (Its insurer will add $1.1 billion.) But if the asbestos bill is not passed by Nov. 30, the company is on the hook for an additional $605 million.

USG, parent of United States Gypsum, structured a similar deal in bankruptcy courts in late January. The company has said it used asbestos in building materials.

"In our case, the effect of this legislation is crystal clear: It will cost us $900 million if the Fair Act passes and $3.95 billion if it does not," said Robert E. Williams, a USG spokesman. Critics use that discrepancy as an indication that the bill is a bailout for large companies, but Mr. Williams says the big difference actually shows "the problems and inefficiencies in the tort system."

But for A. W. Chesterton, a 122-year-old company based in Stoneham, Mass., that used asbestos fibers in its industrial fluid sealing products, the amount of money it would be responsible for under the bill could destroy it, according to its outside legal counsel, John B. Manning.

"Its assessment under the Fair Act is going to be a minimum of $16.5 million annually for 30 years," Mr. Manning said. "That $16.5 million is more than double a year's profit for this company."

By contrast, large corporations will, at most, be responsible for $27.5 million a year for 30 years. "You've got large companies making billions and billions a year in profits," Mr. Manning said. "Having to come up with $27.5 million is nothing to them."

Some small companies say they are probably better off fighting in the courts than paying their share under this bill. They argue that the cases against them have fallen sharply. They attribute that in part to measures in several states that have raised the bar for product liability litigation, and to growing skepticism about a number of asbestos cases amid evidence that some doctors simply rubber-stamped the filing of many questionable claims.

"We have seen a huge drop-off in the number of suits in which we have been named," said David M. Lascell, vice president of Hopeman Brothers, which years ago installed wall and ceiling panels containing asbestos in the interiors of ships. "And one of the reasons is that there has been terrific success with tort reform in states like Texas and Mississippi." Under the bill, Hopeman would have to pay $16.5 million a year for 30 years. "Five years of our earnings wouldn't pay for that," Mr. Lascell said.

The bill's supporters include some unlikely allies, including Richard F. Scruggs, a trial lawyer famous for his role in tobacco litigation, who has made a great deal of money in legal fees suing on behalf of asbestos victims. "This bill stops companies from going bankrupt and prevents trial lawyers from going after these companies and bringing them down," said Mr. Scruggs, who came out in support of the bill last week.

Chris Mather, a spokeswoman for the American Trial Lawyers Association, which opposes the bill, noted that Mr. Scruggs appeared to be the only trial lawyer in the country who supported the legislation.

Yesterday, the White House renewed its call for Congress to adopt legislation creating an asbestos trust, although it was not entirely satisfied with the Senate measure.

"Although the administration has serious concerns about certain provisions of the bill, the administration looks forward to working with Congress in order to strengthen and improve this important legislation," said a statement from the Office of Management and Budget. It did not specify which provisions the administration disliked.

Meanwhile, an analysis by Democrats on the Senate Budget Committee said the measure was "seriously flawed" and could force taxpayers to pay as much as $150 billion to make up for a shortfall in financing.

The bill "sets up a fund that is destined for a taxpayer bailout, or it will provide only a fraction of what is promised to victims of asbestos," said Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, the ranking Democrat on the committee. "It offers a false promise to victims of asbestos."

Senator Arlen Specter, the Pennsylvania Republican who is the bill's chief sponsor, has said it is adequately financed and, in any event, taxpayers would not have to bail out the fund because if there were shortfalls, victims could return to court.
145 2006-02-10 In the forthcoming March/April issue of Foreign Affairs, Paul R. Pillar - the C.I.A.'s senior analyst for the Middle East from 2000 to 2005 - writes that the failures and mistakes of the intelligence community did not lead the nation to war with I...
146 2006-02-10 He may look like the corporate guy next door, and he has no patience for showy theatrics on the podium, but this probing Latvian-born conductor has quietly risen to the top rungs of his profession. After stints in Pittsburgh and Oslo (the latter f...
147 2006-02-10 "Renault is not in crisis, but Renault is fragile," Mr. Ghosn said at a news conference in this suburb of Paris. "What Renault needs today is not restructuring. Renault needs growth."

The trick for Mr. Ghosn will be finding this growth in a European market that is stagnant, competitive and likely to become even more cutthroat as Toyota and other Japanese carmakers begin making the same inroads here that they made in the United States over the last decade.

In contrast to Nissan, where Mr. Ghosn was an outsider and could challenge Japanese conventions, he is an insider at Renault, working within the confines of French society. Some analysts suspect that he avoided talk of layoffs for political reasons, with France entering an election season.

"It's a higher-risk plan," said Adam Jonas, an auto analyst at Morgan Stanley in London, comparing Mr. Ghosn's program for Renault with what he did at Nissan. "It's missing some of the ingredients of a classic Ghosn turnaround. There's no sense of crisis, no sense of urgency."

Urgency might be in order, Mr. Jonas said, given the deepening problems in Europe. Sales of cars in Europe declined 3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2005, and are not expected to rebound much this year. Renault's unit sales in the region tumbled 7.3 percent in the second half of last year, contributing to a 37 percent decline in its 2005 operating profit.

Moreover, the Japanese are quickly developing the expertise in diesel engines that has been a competitive edge for the Europeans. Mr. Jonas predicts that the major Japanese carmakers, plus Hyundai, will increase their share of the European market to more than 20 percent, from 17 percent, by the end of the decade.

Mr. Ghosn acknowledged Europe's poor prospects with a startling number -- of the 800,000 extra cars a year he plans to sell, 550,000 will be sold outside Europe, 250,000 within the Continent.

"We do not see the European market better in 2009 than it is today," he said, citing rising interest rates and energy prices as additional hurdles. "Most of the growth will come from outside Europe."

Mr. Ghosn said he saw sales opportunities for Renault in India, Iran and South Korea. But he ruled out returning to the United States anytime soon, and sounded wary about the Chinese market, where Renault has lagged behind German rivals like Volkswagen and DaimlerChrysler.

In a session with journalists, Mr. Ghosn said his experience at Nissan would give him an insight into the strategies of his Japanese rivals. In any event, Renault's alliance with Nissan serves as a sort of hedge.

"We are part European, part Japanese," he said. A Brazilian-born Frenchman of Lebanese descent, Mr. Ghosn is one of several high-profile European executives, struggling to recapture the momentum at Europe's best-known carmakers.

While Dieter Zetsche of DaimlerChrysler and Wolfgang Bernhard of Volkswagen are relying heavily on cost reductions -- Mr. Zetsche has announced 14,500 job cuts at Mercedes-Benz -- Mr. Ghosn is betting that he can transform Renault into a more full-fledged competitor to the Germans.

Among his plans is a luxury line that would compete with Mercedes and BMW. He pledged that Renault's new Laguna sedan, to be introduced in 2007, would rank in the top three in quality in its category.

Propelling a mass-market carmaker into the luxury segment is both costly and prone to failure. Volkswagen foundered in its effort to sell a $75,000 sedan, the Phaeton, despite its undisputed high quality.

Mr. Ghosn said the effort was necessary to make Renault less dependent on the Megane, a popular compact that accounts for half of its sales. "We are working to recover Renault's brand," he said.

Polishing the Renault name with stylish new cars, Mr. Ghosn said, should enable the company to achieve a profit margin of 6 percent by 2009, compared with slightly more than 3 percent last year. That would put Renault at the same level of profitability as BMW and Toyota.

He also made a commitment to raise the annual dividend to 4.5 euros a share, compared with 1.8 euros a share in 2005. But Mr. Ghosn played down the chances that Renault would buy a luxury brand, like Jaguar, to vault it into the market for higher-priced cars.

Renault's 44.3 percent stake in Nissan, however, is a clear source of strength. Mr. Ghosn said the sharing of technology and parts between the companies would allow Renault to move faster in its overhaul.

The only downside for Mr. Ghosn is the inevitable comparison between his dramatic success at Nissan, and the murkier job he faces at Renault. The comparison, he says, is flawed. "They needed shock treatment, so as to deal with problems that had never been dealt with before," he said.

In any event, Mr. Ghosn radiated confidence. "I don't have a pattern of not meeting my objectives," he said.
148 2006-02-10 "I'm desperate," Emily Arroyo, the mother of the second grader, said last week, after prosecutors refused an immigration judge's suggestion that they drop the two-year-old deportation case against her son, José Arroyo Rodas. Instead, they demanded that she buy him a one-way ticket to Canada by next week.

"I'm American -- they're making me leave my country, too, because of course I'm not going to let him go alone," said Ms. Arroyo, a hairstylist raised in Guatemala, who calculates that she has spent $10,000 in legal fees trying in vain to fix José's paperwork problem. But on Wednesday, hours after this reporter asked United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials in Washington for comment about the case, an agency spokesman, Marc Raimondi, said that prosecutors reviewing the matter had found that it met the guidelines for prosecutorial discretion. "A dismissal recommendation to the immigration judge is planned," he said.

Kelly Klundt, a spokeswoman for Customs and Border Protection, which is also part of Homeland Security, said that as its officers process 86 million air travelers a year and enforce 400 different laws, "there are unfortunately going to be a few instances that do not demonstrate perfect discretion."

"Achieving a balance of being a welcoming nation and keeping the borders secure is terribly difficult," she added. "We are seeking to improve the way we handle all of these types of situations."

But a case like José's only confirms that without exceptional outside attention or high-level intervention, rigidity prevails, said Diane M. Butler, a Seattle lawyer who heads the American Immigration Lawyers Association committee that works with Customs and Border Protection.

Most officers, she said, "are trying to do the right thing" but lack training in how to apply discretion. But, in some instances, she added, officers seem newly emboldened by campaigns against illegal immigration to express their resentment of foreigners by denying or delaying entry whenever possible. She said her business clients reported remarks like, " 'You're just trying to take jobs away from Americans.' "

Other immigrant advocates say that low-level employees often act out of fear. "The people on the front line are told that if they make a mistake, their jobs are gone," said Amy L. Peck, an immigration lawyer in Omaha who heads the association committee that works with Immigration and Customs Enforcement. "So that translates into this rigid -- what one could also describe as extreme -- policy of turning away and not using discretion in cases that scream for it."

The Irish professor, John McCourt, 40, said that on Jan. 7, an immigration officer at Philadelphia International Airport initially offered to correct a paperwork omission on the spot if he paid a $265 fine. Professor McCourt said he readily agreed, but five minutes later, the officer returned and said she had changed her mind -- "that I was a university professor and should have known better" and would be sent back the same night.

In an e-mail message, Professor McCourt, a James Joyce specialist at the University of Trieste in Italy, wrote: "I was told that if I protested I would simply be deported and never be let back."

At 11 p.m., six hours after his arrival, he was transported in handcuffs to the Montgomery County jail, along with another traveler denied entry, Kerstin Spitzl, a pregnant German woman who says that immigration officers abruptly canceled her visa, insisting that she was planning to violate its terms by working.

Worse than the cold, windowless cells at the jail, they said in separate interviews, was a sense of powerlessness. "You're scared," said Ms. Spitzl from her home in Wuppertal. "You have no rights. You cannot contact nobody, nobody can contact you."

In Italy, Professor McCourt quickly fixed his paperwork at the American consulate in Florence, and returned to start his classes at Penn a week late. But in New York last week, where he spoke at Fordham University on "Joyce and Judaism," he said his experience had confirmed his European friends' worst fears about America.

"At the moment, America is easy to hate," he said, "So people say, 'That does it for me. I'm not going to risk that happening.' "

Ms. Klundt, of Customs and Border Protection, said she could not comment on individual cases. But she quoted Robert C. Bonner, who retired as the agency's commissioner in November: "Isolated incidents of rude and hostile conduct reflect poorly on our agency and our country and they are inconsistent with C.B.P. law enforcement professionalism."

In an August 2004 memo, announcing an agency "professionalism initiative," Mr. Bonner also said: "Since the overwhelming majority of travelers pose absolutely no threat to our national security, C.B.P. will use discretion to permit entry, whenever the law allows, for individuals that have committed a technical or inadvertent immigration violation, but who otherwise pose no threat whatsoever."

Guidelines on prosecutorial discretion were also issued last October by the chief counsel to Immigration and Customs Enforcement, William J. Howard, "to reallocate limited ICE resources to priority cases by dismissing appropriate cases," like deportation proceedings against people whose applications to stay in the United States, though backlogged, were likely to be approved.

Sometimes the case for leniency is in the eye of the beholder. In the case of the Tibetan monks, Ms. Peck said they had been abandoned without money in Arizona by their sponsor, the Church of Shambhala, because they refused to recognize its leader as the reincarnation of Buddha and Jesus. They traveled to Omaha for Buddhist workshops, unaware that their visas had been revoked, she said. But Mr. Raimondi defended the arrests, saying that the monks had been notified that their visas were revoked, and became "fugitive aliens" when they left Arizona.

In José Rodas's case, prosecutorial discretion may be the only way to cut through a tangle of law and circumstance -- and as of last night, the boy's lawyer, Irwin Berowitz, said he had received no word of the government's change of heart. José cannot automatically derive American citizenship from his mother because she was reared in Guatemala, and his absent father is not American.

A petition to set the boy on the road to United States citizenship has been approved, but obstacles include a two-year processing backlog, his lawyer said. And as long as prosecutors remain opposed, an immigration judge has no authority to dismiss his deportation case.

At one hearing, Ms. Arroyo said, the judge had to take a break to regain her composure after she and José both started crying. "He kept saying," Ms. Arroyo recalled, " 'Mommy, I don't want to leave.' "
149 2006-02-10 A.I.G. Agrees to $1.64 Billion Settlement With Regulators Over Insurance Practices  Apologizing for deceptive business practices extending as far back as two decades ago, American International Group, the global insurance giant, reached a $1.64 bi...
150 2006-02-10 American laws that strip convicted felons of the right to vote, barring nearly five million from the polls in the last election, are the most punitive and regressive laws of their kind in the democratic world. Several states have recently softened or eliminated the voting bans, and many others are considering laws that could eventually establish voting as a basic American right that should never be curtailed in a way that bars a whole class of people from the polls.

This attitude is gaining traction even in the Deep South, which pioneered voting bans to disenfranchise black Americans in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. But the new trend toward fairness has somehow vaulted over Pennsylvania, where the Republican majority in the State House is pushing to pass one of the most odious felon-voting bans ever seen above the Mason-Dixon line.

Under current Pennsylvania law, people can vote once they leave prison. But a bill pending in the Legislature would disenfranchise those on parole or probation. The bill would go further and bar convicts from voting until the dates when their maximum sentences would expire -- even if they had been fully released from the system much earlier.

Pennsylvania, a swing state that will hold some critical elections this fall, is being barraged by legislation, championed by Republican lawmakers, that would raise voting barriers, especially for groups that tend to be Democratic. One measure would institute one of the most restrictive voter-identification laws in the nation, in a state that currently requires only first-time voters to prove their identities. Pennsylvanians -- who have been at the forefront of fairness in voting rights issues -- should not allow partisanship to erase that legacy.
151 2006-02-10 And the Tonya Harding-Nancy Kerrigan affair in 1994 launched figure skating into a new stratosphere of soap opera proportions. An associate of Harding's whacked Kerrigan on the knee at the national championships, keeping television viewers riveted to their meeting at the Olympics.

But Salt Lake's Games introduced a new platform for Olympic controversy. The French judge Marie Reine Le Gougne became the focus of international intrigue after she said she was pressured into helping a Russian pair win. Thanks to insistent television announcers and an enraged North American audience, the silver medalists Jamie Salé and David Pelletier became the sympathetic victims of a fix. They eventually walked away with their own set of gold medals, matching those of the Russians Anton Sikharulidze and Yelena Berezhnaya, after the I.O.C. intervened.

A sport that had always been at the mercy of murky judging was suddenly under siege.

"That was 2002, but it reflected something that had happened for a half-century or more," said the figure-skating commentator Dick Button, who was not analyzing the competition that night. "This wasn't anything new. It just came to the forefront in a very public way."

It came to the forefront to the great horror of the I.O.C. and the International Skating Union, which scrambled for several days to deal with the scandal. The double gold medals quelled the initial furor somewhat, but the scoring system took two more years to reform.

Le Gougne, who denies the conspiracy charges, was banned from international judging for two years, but she now says that she believes the scandal was worth it because the skating union was forced to install a new judging system before another worldwide audience would pay rapt attention again.

"Without my affair, it was impossible to have voted in such a revolutionary system in the I.S.U., because, at that time, the huge institution that is the I.S.U., it was just inertia," Le Gougne said in a recent telephone interview.

The new system has been generally applauded by the athletes, although some are still struggling to learn its nuances. It replaces the old, simple 6.0 system, in which deductions were taken from the 6.0 to produce a set of technical scores and a set for artistic impression.

Now, a routine is evaluated in what appears to be a blizzard of numbers, assigning values to each element performed based on its difficulty. Judges are still given a set of marks to judge artistry as well, all rolled into a confounding total. Sasha Cohen won the United States championships with a 185.98.

"I think it's alienated a few in the public because it's complicated," said Peter Oppegard, a former Olympic pairs skater and current coach. "They look at those numbers and say, 'What does that mean?'

"You lose that immediate reaction of, '6.0, wow.' You do lose that excitement. But if it means these athletes are competing on a more even playing field, it is a good tradeoff."

That was ostensibly the purpose of the new system. In the old one, judges were allowed to give the same score to several skaters and decide later how to rank them. It was standard practice to judge early skaters lower in order to "leave room" for the more accomplished skaters to come.

All that is gone. What exists now is anonymity. There may be a French judge, but no one will know. The skating union insisted on this because it said judges felt it would keep nations and federations from trying to influence their judging.

"It worries me that the system is so corrupt that judges cannot make proper judgments without anonymity because of retaliation," Pound said. "That's a problem."

Pelletier agrees. "A system that protects the judges makes me laugh," Pelletier said in a recent teleconference. "It should be a system that protects the skaters."

The United States Figure Skating Association argued against anonymity when the new system was formulated, but has since supported it because the I.S.U. instituted a judge-review process. Now, a panel reviews the judges' marks at every competition. Wayward marks draw an official reprimand, which affect that judge's future international assignments.

But the general public's ability to match a set of marks with a judge is gone.

"Before, I think people liked to see the country identified with the judges and could understand it very quickly," said Jim Scherr, chief executive of the United States Olympic Committee. "Now it's something of a black box."

Pound and others say a better solution is for the International Skating Union to train a staff of professional judges instead of relying on each country's federation to train and nominate judges for international duty, leaving them open to outside influence.

Still others say that judged sports, by their very nature, can never be free of controversy.

Many skaters will point out that under the new judging system, the Russian pair would have finished first and the Canadians second. All the upheaval would not have changed that result.

"I was sitting in the front row and I saw both teams compete," said John Baldwin, half of the top American pair, with Rena Inoue, at this Olympics. "What happened was one team won by a tenth of a point. That's how figure skating is. It's a judged event. I don't know if you're ever going to get rid of that.

"The new system is good on the technical side. But as long as it's a subjective sport, you're not going to get rid of it."

The sport of figure skating was turned upside down, but may have landed nearly where it started.
152 2006-02-10 The Procter & Gamble Company has expanded its relationship with Wieden & Kennedy in Portland, Ore., awarding the agency its largest assignment to date, the worldwide creative duties for the Old Spice line of men's products. Spending was estimated ...
153 2006-02-11 That effort has also helped unite a scattered and diverse group of immigrants and second- and third-generation Arabs, Muslims and Christians alike. "Prior to Sept. 11, I felt the Arab community was a lot like the Mideast itself, made up of insular communities," said Heather Raffo, a half Iraqi and half American playwright who was raised as a Catholic. She wrote and acted in "Nine Parts of Desire" about contemporary Iraqi women. "But since that time it's become an immediate, all-inclusive, wanting to create together."

In Chicago, the playwright Jamil Khoury (his father is Syrian, his mother is Polish and Slovak) and his partner Malik Gillani, founded the Silk Road Theater Project after 9/11 to showcase plays about the countries along that historical route, from China to Europe and including the Middle East.

After 9/11, Nibras, an Arab-American theater collective based in New York, performed "Sajjil," Arabic for "Record." It was an ensemble piece based on interviews with Arabs and non-Arabs about what they think when they hear the word "Arab." The collective includes Nathalie Handal and Najla Said, the daughter of the scholar Edward Said. The production won a Fringe Festival Award in 2002.

And in San Francisco, Golden Thread Productions was founded in 1996 to present theater about Middle Eastern culture. It co-produced the first performance of "Back of the Throat" in 2005.

"Throat," which runs through March 8, is about an Arab-American writer who after the Sept. 11 attacks is suddenly caught up in a Kafkaesque encounter with federal agents.

To Mr. El Guindi the terrorist attacks were "hideous." But in the days after, he said, he and his Arab-American friends began to feel increasingly paranoid.

Seattle, where Mr. El Guindi lives, is a liberal city, he said. "Friends were questioned, friends of friends," he said. "The Patriot Act came in, and suddenly you didn't know what your rights were. You started hearing these stories of people getting stopped for what they were reading at airports, of the F.B.I. going to galleries and questioning the artist if the exhibit was politically charged."

"I began to look at my apartment," he continued. "What do I have in my apartment if an F.B.I. agent came in? I have books on assassins, guns, Islam, research materials, the Koran, that would identify me as interested in the Middle East. In my paranoia, I started to imagine what could happen."

In the play, the agents who arrive at Khaled's rather messy apartment couldn't be more polite at first. "We appreciate this," says one, Bartlett, (Jason Guy). But slowly, things turn ominous. As the skein of insinuation unfolds, a chance encounter by Khaled (Adeel Akhtar) with a terrorist (Bandar Albuliwi) is distorted by the agents into a conspiracy.

For all its atmosphere of menace, though, the play has humor. At one point, Bartlett gives Khaled an evaluation form. "We're trying to get direct feedback from the public," he says. "Especially from our target audience."

Mr. Guindi said he doesn't feel obligated to write about politics. "I wish there were more political plays," he said. "The problem with the American theater is it's not addressing what's going on."

At one point a look of anxiety crossed his face and he clutched his cheeks when talking about politics. "Am I being too political?" he asked.

Politics is almost always a subtext in Arab-American plays. Prominent among them is Ms. Handal, who wrote "Between Our Lips," about a Palestinian woman about to be executed for her husband's murder. Betty Shamieh's play "Roar" is about Palestinian-Americans in Detroit during the Gulf War.

But certain issues can be trigger points within the Arab-American community. In 2002, the Cornerstone Theater in Los Angeles commissioned Mr. El Guindi to write a play as part of a cycle about different religious communities. The result was "Ten Acrobats in an Amazing Leap of Faith," about an Arab-American family in which the younger generation questions its parent's traditions. At a staged reading, "conservative elements in the Muslim community objected because of the gay character," Mr. El Guindi said, adding, "There's also a son who begins to question his religion."

Mr. El Guindi, 45, is of Muslim heritage, but he said "I'm not very religious." He has lived in the United States since 1983 and has been a citizen since 1996. His voice is lightly inflected with a British accent from his childhood in England after his family fled Egypt in 1963 when Gamal Abdel Nasser began nationalizing their businesses. His Arabic, he said, is rudimentary.

He graduated from American University in Cairo in 1982. "My father said I should get to know my own country," he said. He then came to the United States and got a Master of Fine Arts at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh.

One reason Mr. El Guindi is an important playwright, said Dina Amin, a director and professor at the University of Delaware who studies Arab-American theater, is that "although he is of the first generation, he tries to see the Arab-American predicament from within the second."

Mr. Khoury of Silk Road said that conservatism within Muslim culture may be one reason for the scarcity of Arab-American playwrights. Representations of the human form are frowned on, he said: women dancing, or performing in front of men is considered reprehensible.

And until now, at least, Mr. Khoury said, "there was a sense among Arab-American writers who may be interested in theater that there was not going to be an outlet for being produced."

Ms. Amin said that "publishers are not interested in the plays unless they are stereotypical, unless they deal with topics like veils or female circumcision."

But many of the playwrights insist their stories are universal. Ms. Handal said a non-Arab woman in the audience can identify with "Between Our Lips," "not because they're Arab but because they're a woman, a daughter."

To Ms. Said, "Arabs are just like any ethnic group." She has written a performance piece based on her first visit to Palestine with her father. She said that growing up in New York, with many Jewish friends, "I might as well have been Jewish."

Correction: February 14, 2006, Tuesday An article in The Arts on Saturday about the Arab-American playwright Yussef El Guindi and his new play, "Back of the Throat," erroneously attributed a view about the scarcity of Arab-American playwrights. It was Rabiah Ahmed, a spokeswoman for the Council of American-Islamic relations, not Jamil Khoury, a founder of the Silk Road Theater Project in Chicago, who said that conservatism within Muslim culture might be one reason, and that representations of the human form were frowned on and that dancing or performing by women in front of men was considered reprehensible.
154 2006-02-11 As a stained-glass artist, Patti Kelly has a passion for old buildings. She has admired St. Brigid's, built 158 years ago to tend to refugees from the Irish potato famine, for years while walking to her East Village studio.

So she said she was sad when Cardinal Edward M. Egan, the Roman Catholic archbishop of New York, ordered the church closed in 2001. The City Buildings Department had determined the building, overlooking Tompkins Square Park on the Lower East Side, to be unsafe. Her sense of foreboding mounted when the archdiocese closed the parish in 2004.

Now a Manhattan judge has cleared the way for the archdiocese to demolish the church building with the dismissal of a lawsuit brought by a group of former parishioners and the Committee to Save St. Brigid's. Ms. Kelly is a member of the committee.

In court papers, the committee said the archdiocese applied to the Buildings Department in September 2003 to turn the church into residential apartments. Last July, the committee obtained a temporary court order barring demolition. The archdiocese estimated the cost of repairing the church at $6.9 million, which it said was prohibitive. The committee argued it would cost closer to $500,000, and asked the judge to order the archdiocese to use about $103,000 collected by the former parish priest, Michael Conway, for repairs.

In a decision made public yesterday, Justice Barbara R. Kapnick of State Supreme Court declined to interfere, citing legal precedent related to religious property. "This court finds that it would be an 'impermissible intrusion' into Cardinal Egan's ecclesiastical authority to mandate that he use those funds to reopen the building as a church and/or to require him to operate a parish therein," Justice Kapnick wrote.

Ms. Kelly said the committee was raising money to appeal. "Every time one of these buildings is taken down, we lose a sense of what New York is all about," she said. Although she is a lapsed Catholic, she said, "That doesn't mean I don't have faith."
155 2006-02-11 "I believe the most important and interesting fact about this discovery is that it came after 80 years," said Dr. Salima Ikram, former professor of Egyptology at the American University in Cairo.

The tomb was discovered 16 feet from the tomb of King Tutankhamen, who reigned during the 18th dynasty, a time in which Ancient Egypt's power peaked. Thebes, now known as Luxor, was the capital.

Mr. Bouriak said that although the archaeologists had not entered the tomb, they had observed its contents through a 5 by 6 foot vertical shaft.

"One thing we are sure of, those mummies are not royal," Mr. Bouriak said. Royal sarcophagi carry certain signs and epitaphs and more, he said.

"Studying them will help us know who those people were, what they did," he said.

Led by an Egyptologist, Otto J. Schaden, the team consisted of up to nine archaeologists, some from the Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology at the University of Memphis, in Tennessee, and from the University of Akron, in Ohio.

Dr. Schaden, who has been working in Egypt since 1992, discovered the tomb 13 feet below ground, hidden under rubble and workmen's huts. Dr. Schaden said in a statement that this suggested that the tomb had been concealed since at least the latter part of 19th dynasty.

Mariam Ayad, assistant director of the Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology, said in a telephone interview that Dr. Lorelei H. Corcoran, the director of the institute, and an Egyptology student, Sharon Nichols, had been with Dr. Schaden when the tomb was discovered. They arrived in Egypt in December as part of an annual expedition.

"It is an honor to be buried in the Valley of the Kings," Dr. Schaden said in a telephone interview from Luxor. "They could be relatives of the king, his brother-in-law, a gardener or a minor person in the palace given special honor by the king." He added that sarcophagi carried the names and all information about the person buried, but that so far the team had not been able to enter the burial chamber and could see only through a hole in the shaft.

Dr. Hawass, of the antiquities council, said the archaeologists had also found eight pits possibly used by ancient Egyptians to enter and leave the tomb. He added that the mummies might have been buried in the small tomb very rapidly.

Between 1887 and 1922, several other tombs were found in the vicinity, including a major find of 40 intact royal mummies in 1887, the priests of Amun and 100 sarcophagi in 1891, and 12 royal mummies in the tomb of King Amenhotep II in 1898.
156 2006-02-11 Rulings of the arbitration court are not subject to appeal.

"I'm obviously very disappointed," Lund said on a conference call. "As an athlete, I always thought the anti-doping agencies were there to support athletes, to support fair play. I don't feel that has been achieved in this process."

Lund's lawyer, Howard Jacobs, had successfully argued Lund's case in front of the United States Anti-Doping Agency, which gave Lund only a public warning in January after deciding that information about masking agents was misleading on the Web site of the international federation for skeleton and bobsled.

But the World Anti-Doping Agency appealed and the case went to a panel of the Court of Arbitration for Sport, which attends every Olympics so that cases are handled quickly.

"We felt U.S.A.D.A. made the proper ruling," Jacobs said. "It seems to me the anti-doping rules are lacking any notion of common sense."

Lund also said he thought the rules were too black and white, but Olympic anti-doping rules are intended as a no-tolerance system. An athlete's intent may be weighed in determining the length of a sanction, as in this case. But it does not, by rule, excuse a positive test.

The United States Bobsled and Skeleton Federation probably did not help Lund's cause. The federation failed to immediately report Lund's positive test to the United States Anti-Doping Agency as is required, instead deciding that Lund's declaration of the drug was enough.

Lund said he intended to return to the sport after his reinstatement and hoped to make the Olympic team again in 2010.

NO AMERICANS ON I.O.C. BOARD -- The diminished United States clout in the Olympic movement slipped even further Friday, when Jim Easton failed to retain a seat on the International Olympic Committee executive board. Anita DeFrantz withdrew her own candidacy at the last minute to try to give Easton a better chance.

"I let down the U.S. by not being able to keep a place on there," said Easton, who had served as an I.O.C. vice president for four years.

The events Friday mean that the United States has no representative on the executive board.

The loss of influence comes down to several factors, including anti-American sentiment, growing European control of the I.O.C. and the fallout from political turmoil and leadership changes at the United States Olympic Committee in recent years.

The signs were clear last July when New York finished fourth out of five candidates in the vote to be the 2012 Olympic host city. At that same meeting, the I.O.C. voted to scrap baseball and softball, traditional American sports, for the 2012 London Games. Thursday's rejection of attempts to reinstate the sports was another blow.

Europe is by far the biggest bloc in the 115-member I.O.C. After Friday's elections, Europe holds 9 of the 15 seats on the policy-making executive board. There are three Asians, two Hispanics and one African.

The last time the United States had no member on the board was a seven-month transition period between the end of DeFrantz's term as vice president in July 2001 and Easton's election in February 2002. Otherwise, there had been a continuous American presence since 1989.

The next chance for an American member to be elected to the board will be at the 2007 I.O.C. session in Guatemala.
157 2006-02-11 To the Editor:     John Tierney suggests that the 1978 fuel-economy standards made vehicles lighter and thus less safe. But the fact is that after the standards took effect, 85 percent of fuel economy gains came from gas-saving technologies, not r...
158 2006-02-11 WASHINGTON, Feb. 10 - Thousands of applicants for federal emergency relief money after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita used duplicate or invalid Social Security numbers or bogus addresses, suggesting that the $2.3 billion program was a victim of extensive fraud, a Congressional auditor will report Monday.

The examination of the so-called Expedited Assistance program determined that the Federal Emergency Management Agency failed to take even the most basic steps to confirm the identifies of about 1.4 million people who sought expedited cash assistance, leaving the program vulnerable to the "significant fraud and abuse," the Government Accountability Office intends to report.

The auditors did not try to estimate the total dollar amount of fraudulent claims. But the report says that FEMA itself had found that 900,000 of the 2.5 million applications for all forms of individual assistance were "potential duplicates."

Even when FEMA's automated computer system picked out what might be fraudulent applications, payments were at times still sent, says the advance testimony of Gregory D. Kutz, the managing director of the G.A.O.'s forensic audits unit.

The controls were so lax that auditors were able to secure their own $2,000 relief check by using "falsified identifies, bogus addresses and fabricated disaster stories," and then simply waiting for the money to arrive in the mail, says the report for the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, a copy of which was obtained by The New York Times.
159 2006-02-11 Visteon Posts a Fourth-Quarter Profit, Helped by the Sale of Assets to Ford  The auto parts maker Visteon Corporation posted a quarterly net profit yesterday after recognizing a gain of $1.83 billion on the sale of plants and other facilities to i...
160 2006-02-11 Those elevated levels of hemoglobin recently discovered in the skiers could stem from training at high altitude or from dehydration. But they could also be an indication that athletes had used illegal blood-doping methods to enhance their performance. These methods include transfusions or taking synthetic hormones like erythropoietin, known as EPO.

The suspensions of the skiers will last for five days, causing some of them to miss the 15-kilometer women's pursuit and the 30-kilometer men's pursuit. On Monday, the athletes whose tests showed high hemoglobin levels will be retested.

But Lund will not get that chance. He was barred for one year after losing his appeal for testing positive in November for using a banned masking agent, finasteride, which can also be used as a treatment for hair loss.

At a news conference Friday afternoon, Jacques Rogge, the International Olympic Committee president, was adamant that no athlete had failed a doping test at these Games. Twenty-three athletes failed doping tests at the Summer Games in Athens in 2004.

The cross-country athletes involved, and their coaches, denied that the skiers had taken banned substances.

"I'm absolutely certain that the Americans are not doping," said Jim Galanes, who coaches Kikkan Randall of Anchorage, one of the skiers whose test revealed high hemoglobin levels, the other American being Leif Zimmermann of Bozeman, Mont.

"The athletes are in a terribly awkward situation of having to defend themselves against doping charges and worry about passing the next test, and that's a shame," Galanes said. "Whether you're a cross-country skier or Lance Armstrong or Tyler Hamilton, you're assumed guilty because you have high hemoglobin levels, but I know it's very easy and natural to bump over the maximum levels."

Galanes said the maximum hemoglobin levels used in the federation's testing procedures are not sufficiently high, and that they do not take into account that athletes often train at high altitudes, which raises their hemoglobin levels.

Altitude training can raise an athlete's hemoglobin levels, said Dr. Lawrence Rice, a hematologist and professor at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston. He said that even people living in a high-altitude city like Denver can have hemoglobin levels above the maximum for the cross-country skiers.

But Rice, part of a research team that this week won a grant from the United States Anti-Doping Agency to improve testing for blood doping, also said that only severe dehydration would cause a substantial spike in hemoglobin levels.

"In an airplane, you can drink all the water you want, so I'm skeptical of that excuse," Rice said. "But if you were cheating, wouldn't you come up with something like that, too?

"That's exactly why the drug testers there are doing more tests. The higher levels of hemoglobin are red flags that something illegal might be going on."

Rice said the athletes whose hemoglobin levels were high could try to manipulate those levels before Monday's retest by drinking a lot of fluids and also by bleeding themselves, producing a lower hemoglobin count. In the meantime, he said, drug testers would be preparing for another round of tests, which could include more blood testing, but also urine testing, which more accurately detects synthetic hormones.

"The key is to figure out whether those high levels represent some banned activity, or whether there is a legal reason behind it," Rice said. "If they are cheating, could they get away with it? Yes. It's just like committing a crime in the U.S. Sometimes you get caught, sometimes the physical evidence just isn't there and you go free."

Cross-country skiing has had doping cases involving high hemoglobin levels in the past.

During the 2003 Nordic world championships, skiers Kaisa Varis of Finland and Svetlana Nagejkina of Belarus received five-day suspensions after testing for a high level of hemoglobin. When announcing the suspensions, the International Ski Federation spokesman Toni Noetzli said, "It's not considered doping; it's for the protection of the athletes."

Both athletes were later cleared to compete. Varis and officials of the Finnish Ski Association said her high levels likely were a result of her use during training of a room that simulates high altitude.

In April 2003, Varis received a two-year ban after testing positive for endurance-enhancing EPO.

At the 2002 Winter Games, Larissa Lazutina was barred from the 20-kilometer relay after testing positive for a high level of hemoglobin. She later tested positive for darbepoetin and was stripped of the gold medal she won in the 30-kilometer race. Belmondo was then bumped up to the silver medal from the bronze.

On Friday night, the torch lighting by Belmondo followed the parade of athletes set to American disco tunes, including "YMCA" and "Disco Inferno." Among those marching in the athletes' parade were the American skier Bode Miller and figure skater Michelle Kwan, while First Lady Laura Bush waved from the dignitaries' box. The Italian team, dressed in silver, fur-trimmed coats, brought much of the crowd to its feet.

The Americans were led by their flagbearer, Chris Witty, a five-time Olympian competing in her last Games. In all, athletes from a record 80 countries came to participate in the Games, including one-athlete contingents from Kenya, with cross-country skier Phillip Boit, and Ethiopia, with cross-country skier Robel Teklemariam.

Teklemariam was among the four skiers suspended from competition Friday, but he was allowed to carry his country's flag.

Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi skipped the ceremony at the stadium, originally built by Mussolini and renovated for the Games.

Security faced no apparent troubles, with even the normally tangled Turin traffic easing with schools closed for the duration of the Olympics. It was a spring-like day, with temperatures in the 50's and sunshine glisteningoff the distant Alps.

In those mountains, in the central plaza of Sestriere, where the alpine events will be held, the opening ceremony was broadcast on a big-screen projector. But fewer than 20 people were watching, and most of them were Olympic volunteers.

A bar in the plaza was host to members of the Swiss contingent. Another was filled with people, none of whom appeared to be particularly excited about the ceremony that was playing on television screens around them.

A stage was erected in the corner of the plaza. On it were speakers who shouted commentary in German, the only noise in the air.
161 2006-02-11 But proponents of traditional make-believe play, who objected last year when toy companies marketed digital electronics to "tweens" -- children 8 through 12 -- are expected to protest even more loudly when they are advertised to toddlers.

"This is a big leap," said Reyne Rice, a toy trends specialists for the Toy Industry Association. "A 3-year-old with a digital camera is unusual."

But the financial incentive to develop the technology has grown. Children's electronics have proved to be a bright spot in an otherwise slumping toy industry.

From 2003 to 2005, sales of children's electronics rose 3 percent, to $600 million, according to the NPD Group, a market research firm.

No wonder, perhaps, that last year Hasbro introduced a digital video camera for children ages 8 and older and Disney introduced an MP3 player for children as young as 6.

Executives at Fisher-Price, a division of Mattel, said the company's MP3 player and digital camera, both priced at $70, are specifically designed for young children, with a rugged design that can survive repeated four-foot drops and big easy-to-use buttons that simplify the technology.

The Kid-Tough Digital Camera, for example, has two view finders -- much like a pair of binoculars -- rather the single window found on the adult version; two large handles to steady it before shooting a picture; and a two-step process for deleting unwanted pictures verses the four- or five-step version on a typical camera.

Because not all preschoolers can read a song title before hitting the play button, the Digital Song and Story Player relies on easily recognizable icons to symbolize each song, like a star for "Twinkle, Twinkle Little Star" or a barn for "Old McDonald."

Both products take a minimalist approach. The digital camera has only five buttons. "We analyzed what kids did with these products and what appealed to them and threw out what they didn't need," said David Ciganko, vice president for product design at Fisher-Price.

Company executives said the digital camera and music player promote creative expression -- like snapping a photo of family members, or, perhaps given the age of the photographers, stuffed animals, or learning the words to a children's song.

Lisa Mancuso, vice president for marketing at Fisher-Price, said that with the camera "there is a sense of accomplishment, of 'Mommy, look what I did.' "

With both technologies, however, it is mommy and daddy who will have to do some of the accomplishing. A parent's help is required to download new songs on the digital music player and upload photos to a computer before printing. Fisher-Price said it has developed easy-to-use software that makes the setup fairly simple.

Independent toy analysts expressed concern about the products. Marianne Szymanski, creator of Toy Tips, a research firm based in Milwaukee, said that for the most part digital electronics promote a solitary pattern of play, for example, a child sitting alone listening to music on headphones.

"I am not saying tech is bad, but we need toys that encourage social interaction in the preschool years, not those that don't," she said.

For now, Fisher-Price's rival at Hasbro, Playskool, is steering clear of digital electronics for preschoolers. Lorrie Browning, general manager of infant and preschool toys at Hasbro, said Playskool was using electronics -- but inside traditional toys like a new teddy bear, T. J. Bearytales, that gestures while it tells stories.

"What we are hearing more and more from parents," she said, "is that it's really important that children not lose the key basic building blocks for their development."
162 2006-02-11 Mr. Barnes cited the values expressed by the founding members of the club, then the Group of 6, in 1975 in Rambouillet, France. Besides economic principles, like low inflation and free trade, the group stressed democratic governance, he said.

"Should a country that clearly doesn't meet the criteria hold the presidency?" he asked.

The two subjects Russia is expected to focus on may not necessarily help its profile. Its choice of a theme for its term at the helm, energy security, turned into an embarrassment after a natural gas pricing and transit dispute with Ukraine, a fight that risked leaving Europe short of fuel last month. The Kremlin is likely to be questioned closely on its reliability as a supplier. Some nations are also seeking some loosening of Russia's natural gas monopoly, Gazprom.

Russia also wants to focus on a debt-relief program for the developing world. Russia has said it will pre-pay $11 billion to $12 billion of Soviet-era debt in the first half of this year. It is proposing that G-8 governments transfer those payments to the International Monetary Fund or World Bank, which would use that cash to cancel third world debt.

But Russia, the world's second-largest oil exporter after Saudi Arabia, has more than the means to pay its debt; holding onto the cash runs a risk of overvaluing the ruble and hurting exports. In addition, the sacrifice proposed in the plan applies only to the creditor nations, not to Russia itself.

The World Bank's director, Paul D. Wolfowitz, was scheduled to attend the talks in Moscow on Saturday, Russia's minister of economy, Aleksei L. Kudrin, said this week.

Russia is also sponsoring a discussion on creating a uniform system of accounting for oil reserves. Mr. Kudrin said that would improve the accuracy of oil price projections by reducing uncertainty on supply. "Projections in the market now are very weak," he said. Russia will also discuss encouraging investment to increase oil production amid extremely tight world supplies.

Mr. Kudrin also said Russia was fighting money laundering in Central Asia, where drug money from Afghanistan's heroin trade is cycled through the banking system. Russia spends $3 million a year on this program, he said.

Still, some critics were not convinced Russia was ready to take a leadership role in a club of wealthy democracies, a question that has dogged the country since it joined under President Boris N. Yeltsin.

Russia's economy is not among the eight largest in the world; it is in 10th place. Mr. Putin countered that last week, saying Russia's presence would keep the G-8 from becoming an "assembly of fat cats" because his country still sees economic problems from the perspective of a developing nation.

Barry F. Lowenkron, an assistant United States secretary of state, cited a new law in Russia that strictly monitors nongovernment organizations, and the persecution of a Russian-Chechen Friendship Society. Speaking to Congress on Wednesday, he said the current trajectory on democracy was "discouraging."

The United States "will speak honestly about our concerns with Russian officials; we do this as a friend of Russia," he said. Some members of Congress have even suggested ousting Russia from G-8 for democratic backsliding.

Yevgeny G. Yasin, who was economy minister when Russia joined the Group of 8 in 1998, said membership was seen then as an incentive for the country to make greater economic and political reforms.

That has changed with Mr. Putin's emphasis on oil and gas exports as a rationale for Russia's membership, he said. Russia is still excluded from some of the group's financial meetings.

"I'm afraid the Western community will stop relating to Russia as a member of the club, but as a source of energy," he said in an interview Friday. "That would be a shame. You relate differently to a member of your family than to a trading partner."

He added, "This is a democratic club, and Russia should fit in. If it doesn't, there should be a timeline" to meet the standards.
163 2006-02-11 To the Editor:      Re ''Burn, Baby, Burn,'' by John Tierney (column, Feb. 7):     It's nice that after filling up his tank, Mr. Tierney can afford to say, ''I'm good enough, I'm rich enough, and doggone it, the people in the Middle East like my m...
164 2006-02-11 Mr. Barnes cited the values expressed by the founding members of the club, then the Group of 6, in 1975 in Rambouillet, France. Besides economic principles, like low inflation and free trade, the group stressed democratic governance, he said.

"Should a country that clearly doesn't meet the criteria hold the presidency?" he asked.

The two subjects Russia is expected to focus on may not necessarily help its profile. Its choice of a theme for its term at the helm, energy security, turned into an embarrassment after a natural gas pricing and transit dispute with Ukraine, a fight that risked leaving Europe short of fuel last month. The Kremlin is likely to be questioned closely on its reliability as a supplier. Some nations are also seeking some loosening of Russia's natural gas monopoly, Gazprom.

Russia also wants to focus on a debt-relief program for the developing world. Russia has said it will pre-pay $11 billion to $12 billion of Soviet-era debt in the first half of this year. It is proposing that G-8 governments transfer those payments to the International Monetary Fund or World Bank, which would use that cash to cancel third world debt.

But Russia, the world's second-largest oil exporter after Saudi Arabia, has more than the means to pay its debt; holding onto the cash runs a risk of overvaluing the ruble and hurting exports. In addition, the sacrifice proposed in the plan applies only to the creditor nations, not to Russia itself.

The World Bank's director, Paul D. Wolfowitz, was scheduled to attend the talks in Moscow on Saturday, Russia's minister of economy, Aleksei L. Kudrin, said this week.

Russia is also sponsoring a discussion on creating a uniform system of accounting for oil reserves. Mr. Kudrin said that would improve the accuracy of oil price projections by reducing uncertainty on supply. "Projections in the market now are very weak," he said. Russia will also discuss encouraging investment to increase oil production amid extremely tight world supplies.

Mr. Kudrin also said Russia was fighting money laundering in Central Asia, where drug money from Afghanistan's heroin trade is cycled through the banking system. Russia spends $3 million a year on this program, he said.

Still, some critics were not convinced Russia was ready to take a leadership role in a club of wealthy democracies, a question that has dogged the country since it joined under President Boris N. Yeltsin.

Russia's economy is not among the eight largest in the world; it is in 10th place. Mr. Putin countered that last week, saying Russia's presence would keep the G-8 from becoming an "assembly of fat cats" because his country still sees economic problems from the perspective of a developing nation.

Barry F. Lowenkron, an assistant United States secretary of state, cited a new law in Russia that strictly monitors nongovernment organizations, and the persecution of a Russian-Chechen Friendship Society. Speaking to Congress on Wednesday, he said the current trajectory on democracy was "discouraging."

The United States "will speak honestly about our concerns with Russian officials; we do this as a friend of Russia," he said. Some members of Congress have even suggested ousting Russia from G-8 for democratic backsliding.

Yevgeny G. Yasin, who was economy minister when Russia joined the Group of 8 in 1998, said membership was seen then as an incentive for the country to make greater economic and political reforms.

That has changed with Mr. Putin's emphasis on oil and gas exports as a rationale for Russia's membership, he said. Russia is still excluded from some of the group's financial meetings.

"I'm afraid the Western community will stop relating to Russia as a member of the club, but as a source of energy," he said in an interview Friday. "That would be a shame. You relate differently to a member of your family than to a trading partner."

He added, "This is a democratic club, and Russia should fit in. If it doesn't, there should be a timeline" to meet the standards.
165 2006-02-11 To the Editor:      Re ''Burn, Baby, Burn,'' by John Tierney (column, Feb. 7):     It's nice that after filling up his tank, Mr. Tierney can afford to say, ''I'm good enough, I'm rich enough, and doggone it, the people in the Middle East like my m...
166 2006-02-12 It's unclear how the ability to add influences a real estate agent's success. But what does? Inman News (subscription required) continues to grapple with that significant question. Age, gender and whether the company has an in-house training progr...
167 2006-02-12 Dog owners prepare for the long journey to New York for the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show ....
168 2006-02-12 It can be argued, as David Keene, chairman of the American Conservative Union, pointed out, that Hagel has taken a more conservative position than the Bush administration every time he has broken with it on a major issue. Keene's outfit gave the senator a 100 percent rating for his votes in 2003. His lifetime rating for his first eight years in the Senate stood at 85 on the union's scorecard, which translates into baseball talk as better than a .300 batting average. Here's a certified conservative, then, who has regularly decried partisanship — even during the do-or-die Florida showdown in 2000, when he suggested a statewide recount — and doesn't go on about "values." (He has them; most people have them, he says, so seeking to impose one's own values on others isn't right.) A regular churchgoer, an Episcopalian who sends his two children to Catholic school, he thinks religion is a private matter. In today's partisan climate, what are so-called movement conservatives to make of such a man? Facing conservative audiences, he struggles to overcome the suspicion that he's unpredictable, a throwback to old-school G.O.P. moderation, a dissident.

That suspicion isn't altogether baseless. Hagel is typically more interested in facts on the ground than doctrine. For instance, while he's reliably anti-abortion — earning a legislative rating of 100 from the Christian Coalition in 2004 — he's ready to think through an issue that's a litmus test for some religious groups without bothering to figure out what it might cost him. I asked whether he, like the Bush administration, resisted assistance to groups that distribute condoms in the fight against AIDS in Africa. The senator didn't have a potted answer, so I got to watch him think. He said he thought the United States should be careful about the conditions it lays down; he also had no problem with contraception, he said. As far as I could tell, the answer had come through unfiltered, without political calculation.

None of this easily adds up to a mandate to seek the presidential nomination of the Republican Party, even if you're the senator and happen to believe strongly that the party has lost its way at home and abroad. Hagel leaves no doubt that this is how he feels, even when he's trying to hold in check the reflexive, often surprising directness that makes him a favorite on Sunday-morning TV gab shows. ("I sometimes question whether I'm in the same party I started off in," he will say. Or, "This party that sometimes I don't recognize anymore has presided over the largest growth of government in the history of this country and maybe even the history of man.") Though he can be scathing about the Bush administration's policies, he almost always avoids direct criticism of the president (except to express astonishment that a Republican could go five years without vetoing a single spending bill). He also doesn't praise him.

The problem with making a revival of old-time values of fiscal restraint at home and restraint in the use of American power abroad the starting point for a race is that it presumes a level of disillusion that latter-day Republicans — the people who'll vote in primaries in 2008 — show little sign of feeling. Even when George W. Bush was bottoming out in national polls, Republicans gave him a favorability rating of about 80 percent. Nevertheless, Chuck Hagel is still thinking hard about running, even though party professionals place him at the back of the pack; even though running would more than likely entail standing against John McCain, whom he supported in 2000, one of only four senators to do so, and his closest neighbor in the Russell Senate Office Building. McCain, a former naval officer who calls Hagel "Sergeant," is not only another Vietnam vet and therefore a soul mate, he's also the member of the Republican caucus, Hagel will say even now, who has the best shot at giving the party a new direction and balance. But, among other things, they've differed on Iraq.

Before he can worry about potential rivals, Hagel says, he has to look into himself to see if he has the mettle and ideas needed to offset the disadvantages that make also-rans of senators who discover their Washington experience and voting records only handicap them when they go up against fresh-faced governors able to boast that they're not part of the problem. A veteran of previous administrations who's in fairly regular touch with the senator said he admired him for his seriousness and "brain power," his fresh and independent approach to the toughest issues in foreign affairs especially, but hadn't yet detected the "single-minded zeal" that marks successful candidates for the highest office. Judged as a possible president, the former official said, Hagel could be considered impressive, but judged as a possible candidate, he seemed "basically a dilettante."

Michael McCarthy, an Omaha merchant banker who once made Chuck Hagel president of his investment bank and is now among his most stalwart backers, said he doubted that Hagel could get very far in presidential politics. But he didn't rule out a race. "Chuck's a complicated guy," he said. "He thinks with the clarity of an actuary but decides with the heart of an Irishman, so I don't know where at the end of the day he'll land. He sure as hell can overcome doubt and decide to go where his heart tells him to."

The issue that could propel him into the campaign is not one on which candidacies normally rise or fall. Call it the issue of competence. Hagel is a small-government man who believes government can be made to work, that it should be managed well. And while he doesn't exactly say that the current administration has been careless and incompetent, that theme cries out between the lines of much of what he does say. After the botched reconstruction of Iraq and the nonchalant response to the hurricane on the Gulf Coast, it's not a stretch to hear an implied critique when he says, as he did talking to local reporters in Ames, Iowa, last fall, that the president should "stay focused on governing the country" and "reach out to Congress." It was a polite way of saying the president had done neither. Later, in an interview in his Senate office, I asked how he thought history would judge George W. Bush. He said it would be "rather harsh" if things continued for the next three years the way they've gone for the last five. The verdict would depend on Iraq, "on what happens to the deficit and the debt and some of these issues we've not paid attention to over the last five years." His list of "these things" is familiar and long, in both foreign and domestic affairs. It includes global warming, an issue Hagel has fastened on ever since sponsoring a Congressional resolution with Senator Robert Byrd, the Democratic elder from West Virginia, that opposed the Kyoto Protocol because it placed no caps on emissions by rising industrial powers like China and India; on climate change, he feels strongly, the Bush White House has muffed a chance to demonstrate that conservatives can say something more useful than no, that they can actually advance ideas and programs.

An earnest legislator who seeks to legislate across a broad range of big, looming issues, Hagel managed to pass a couple of bills that offered corporations loan guarantees and tax breaks to come up with processes and devices that limit greenhouse gases. Unlike the administration, he actually got to the point of drafting a Social Security reform bill. And finding allies across party lines — Tom Daschle of South Dakota in the last session, Barack Obama of Illinois as well as a fellow Republican, Mel Martinez, in this one — he shaped a package of immigration-reform bills that aim to create a system that's not dysfunctional: tough on illegals coming into the country, not impossible for illegals who are already here and manageable for employers who want to obey the law. (To understand why a Nebraska senator might interest himself in immigration issues, it's enough to visit an Omaha meatpacking plant. On the cutting floor, the universal language is Spanish.)

"Competent Governance" may not be a slogan to set Republican pulses racing; and pledging to be "a uniter rather than a divider" and to be "humble" in dealings with the rest of the world are, in any case, themes that have already been tried. Recently, instead of the pallid term "competence," Hagel has been talking about "competitiveness" as he tries to find language that will give some urgency to his sense that the party in power, his party, has failed to address issues that are just as urgent as terrorism.

t may say something about the politics of "tending to the base" that Chuck Hagel appears today to be the longest of long shots, for he's a politician with attributes that are supposedly sought by the people who package candidates and by the casual, least opinionated voters for whom they package them — those who drift back and forth between parties, actually deciding elections. The packagers like candidates with what in the trade is called "a good story." Hagel's story wouldn't have to be reshaped by an editor in a cutting room. Voters claim they look for someone who comes across as genuine, talks straight, means what he (or, for argument's sake in the coming campaign, she) says, even if they're not in perfect sync with the candidate on issues. Hagel has that quality of going beyond plausibility to believability, possibly to a fault (in that it sometimes comes with a senatorial tendency to tell you more than you wanted to know; a related liability is that he likes to write his own speeches, which he weighs down with lessons of history and high-minded quotations from his reading, as if he feels a need to show how studious he is).

A Republican campaign pro, after an astute analysis of Hagel's virtues and drawbacks, zeroed in on a factor no one else had mentioned, one that he seemed to feel said a lot about the reason Hagel's party hasn't warmed to him, and therefore about his limited prospects.

"He doesn't have a happy face," the pro said.

That's something a good story — real life, in other words — can do to a person.

It's not that Chuck Hagel can't flash a smile. I watched him in Iowa patiently pose with members of his audience who lined up to have their pictures snapped. The strain started to show only after seven or eight little flashes. He also laughs easily, at his own jokes and others'. A tireless networker and campaigner who revels in small-town parades, he never seems to need prompting to attach a name to a face. But his gregariousness, the habit of a lifetime, takes concentration. When he's small-talking his way around a room, he seems to lean into conversations; and his fingers are usually working, if not grabbing elbows or patting shoulders, then knitting themselves together or kneading the palms of his hands, as if typing out signals to his brain to remind him he's on stage. If you had to choose a word to describe him at such moments, it might be "focused," even "conscientious"; it wouldn't be "happy." Later, while he's waiting to be introduced, his roughly chiseled features may look a little tired or pensive but never less than alert. This is a politician who works at his job.

That usually animated, hardly woebegone face has taken more than its share of battering. His nose was broken twice in high school and college football games and at least once more in a fistfight. (There was the fight on a dance floor in Schuyler, Neb., when some players from another school started picking on a pal, and another at a party in Lincoln when he advised some crashers to leave a friend's home.) And there was Vietnam, where the left side of his face was scorched after a mine went off under the armored personnel carrier in which he was riding. Harder to read are the tracings of a difficult childhood, over which Hagel usually drops a kind of scrim to obscure the roughest parts.

If he tells the story of his hard-luck dad, who came down with malaria in the Pacific theater, he's apt to leave out the drinking. And if he mentions the binges, it takes some prompting for him to acknowledge the effect on himself, the eldest of four sons. More often he dwells on the conversion of his German-French father — Charles Dean Hagel, known as Charlie — to the Roman Catholicism of his Polish-Irish mother and the lead role he then took in building a small church in the town of Ainsworth, where Chuck and Tom became altar boys. Or he humorously turns the fact that the family had homes in seven different small towns that describe a loop around Nebraska into a bountiful political legacy, one that makes it possible for him to say it's good to be home again practically anywhere he campaigns in his state.

Hagel, who will turn 60 this year, was born in North Platte, in western Nebraska, less than a year after his parents were wed, and christened Charles Timothy. They then moved north to Ainsworth, where his dad worked for his own father in a lumberyard, loading and unloading trains. When they couldn't get along, he got himself reassigned to a lumberyard in Rushville, farther west. By then the senator's dad had already been hospitalized twice, for polio and for severe injuries sustained in a fall at the Ainsworth yard. When the family caught up to him in Rushville, he was again in the hospital, this time with a broken back, the result of a car crash when he'd been drinking.

"We lived," Hagel told me, speaking haltingly, not relishing the details, "in the basement of this old hotel called the Travelers Hotel in downtown Rushville — downtown Rushville is like two streets — and when Dad got out of the hospital, we couldn't find a house. It was like a furnace room. I mean it literally was a furnace room. I mean we had cots down there. It was all dirty. Mice and everything." After Rushville came Scotts Bluff, farther west, near the Wyoming border; then Terrytown, just across the Platte River, where his dad would be fired for drinking; then, moving east again, York and the basement of another hotel, the St. Cloud, where young Chuck, by now a freshman in high school, bused tables. "It was a little better than Rushville," he said, "but not much."

By then, he was winning notice for his athletic promise and precocious interest in politics. It was 1960, and he was in a Catholic school called St. Joseph's. "I was the only kid in the school who was for Nixon," he said. "The nuns and priests were wild, just completely wild, for Kennedy, and everyone was very upset with me because I had a picture of Nixon on one of my books." It was also about then that he started getting into occasional confrontations with his dad. As he guardedly puts it now, "Some of it was physical." Feeling that he had a responsibility as the eldest, he'd step between his parents when his father, livid with drink, started badgering his mother. I asked whether his dad ever took a swing at him. He paused for a moment, then said, "Yeh, uh-huh." Again he paused. "Well, you wouldn't swing back at him," he went on. "I'd just push him back."

In his steadier moments, the father was hugely proud of his eldest son, attending all his games, forecasting a great future for him and seeming not to notice that he was slighting his next in line, Tom, who was not an athlete. At the end of a year in York, the family moved north to Columbus, the easternmost point in its circuit of the state, about 80 miles from Omaha. There his dad had one more drunken smash-up. Then on Christmas morning in 1962, the Hagel boys were startled by the sobbing of their mom, who'd come home from early Mass to find her husband dead in bed at 39 of a heart attack. Chuck, just 16, imagined he had to fill the void.

n the five years between his dad's death and his departure for Vietnam, the new man of the family was sturdy, attentive to his brothers and rudderless in his own life. His first goal, set by a football scholarship to Wayne State College, was thwarted early on when an injury left him with a pinched nerve in his neck that surgery couldn't correct. He then drifted to the University of Nebraska at Kearney (pronounced Carney) and from there, dropping out on a sudden impulse, to a school of broadcasting in Minneapolis, where he tried to support himself by going door to door near the airport, in an attempt to sign up United Airlines stewardesses for the Encyclopedia Britannica. It would be a smart investment, he'd tell them, for the children they didn't yet have. "Well, I did make some sales," the senator said.

When his number came up at the draft board in January 1967, he went willingly. And when, after training, he received orders to go to Germany, he requested a transfer to Vietnam. He hadn't been touched by anti-war protests. Where he came from, the feeling was that if there was a war on, that's where a young American soldier belonged. In that reflex, which many would still call patriotic, he briefly found a purpose.

It's unclear to the two brothers today how they wound up in the same infantry squad. Tom, drafted as soon as he finished high school, went initially to a reconnaissance unit up north, where he saw heavy fighting. He put in for a transfer, hoping to get closer to his brother, who was serving in the south. Soon they were on patrol together in canopied jungle near the Cambodian border. Over a period of about four weeks, each got a chance to save the other's life. When the first incident occurred, on March 28, 1968, their squad leader had just taken them off point and moved them to the middle of the column. One of the soldiers who replaced them hit a trip wire, setting off a mine that had been placed in a tree so that it would detonate at face level. Bodies, body parts and shrapnel were blasted back into the ranks as the squad was crossing a stream. Tom picked himself up and looked for his brother. What he saw, he says, was a "geyser" of blood gushing from Chuck's chest. Tom, then only 19, stanched the bleeding and bandaged the wound, only then noticing that he'd been hit himself in the arm. By the time the medevac choppers had taken off the dead and critically wounded, the Hagel boys were deemed well enough to continue on, which meant going off the booby-trapped trail and hacking through thick undergrowth.

Twenty-five days later, it was Chuck's turn to rescue Tom, when their troop carrier hit a hand-detonated mine as it emerged from a village in the delta. Tom had been in the turret behind a .50-caliber machine gun. He was unconscious, not obviously alive, when his brother got to him. The blast had blown out Chuck's eardrums and severely burned his left side, but knowing the carrier might soon explode, he worked feverishly to pull Tom from the wreckage, then threw his body on top of Tom's as Vietcong fighters in ambush sprayed the area with gunfire.

Chuck left Vietnam in December 1968, Tom the following February. Back in Omaha, they roomed together for a time, then followed separate paths to readjustment to civilian life. Beset by nightmares and feelings of guilt that sent him off on binges, Tom had the most to get over, what seemed to be the harder time. He also had the clearest idea about the war, which seemed to him futile and cruel. Before they could get used to their new lives, their youngest brother, Jimmy, was killed in a car crash at 16, yet another piece of Hagel hard luck.

In his reaction to all he'd been through, Hagel mixed repression and a fierce focus on the future. He would do his best to put the war out of his mind, get through his studies finally — he was in his third college — and move on. "I was probably going through something that I didn't quite understand," he acknowledges. "I don't think I'm a person who doesn't reflect, because I do — I reflect on a lot of things — but in this case I wanted to get it behind me. . .I wanted a life." It happened relatively fast. Working part time as a radio reporter in Omaha, he interviewed the only Republican on the county board, John Y. McCollister, who then was elected to the House of Representatives when Hagel was about to graduate, finally, from the University of Nebraska at Omaha. The young veteran asked the new congressman for help finding a Washington job. A month later, McCollister and his wife invited their protégé to stay in their home. Soon his boss was bringing him coffee in bed in the mornings and driving him to work. A year and a half after that, Hagel was his chief of staff, at 26.

"It wasn't very long before he knew everyone on Capitol Hill," McCollister told me. "That's the history of Chuck Hagel. He meets people easily." The subsequent lines on Hagel's dense résumé had everything to do with this talent for getting to know people.

Within 10 years, as Ronald Reagan swept into the White House, he was well-enough connected in Republican circles to be made the second-ranking official of the Veterans Administration. In that capacity, he turned up as one of the main speakers at the groundbreaking for the Vietnam War Memorial. Five months later, in what might be seen as his first declaration of independence, he quit in open protest against cuts in benefits for Vietnam vets, which he'd resisted unsuccessfully.

The resignation opened a new chapter in his life. He would now turn his hand to making money. Cashing in his life-insurance policies and selling his car to his mother and stepfather, he managed to raise $5,000, enough to make him a partner in a batch of new companies that would compete in a lottery for licenses to set up systems for a new kind of telephone that worked without wires. The company he helped found, after stock swaps and the arrival of new partners, grew up into Vanguard Cellular Systems. By the time it went public in 1988, it had become one of the country's biggest cellphone companies, and Chuck Hagel's stake made him a wealthy man. By then he'd traveled to some 15 countries, negotiating with governments, usually unsuccessfully, for contracts to set up wireless systems.

He'd also married and remarried. The first marriage lasted less than two years. The Nebraska Catholic then got to know a Mississippi Baptist, Lilibet Ziller, who handled press for the House Veterans' Affairs Committee. Their search for a church where they could both be comfortable led them to St. John's Episcopal Church across from the White House, where they now worship and where their two children were baptized and confirmed. (Hagel realizes that if he were to try a national run, he might be called on to explain his choices in religion to Christian groups that are part of the conservative coalition his party has fused together. He doesn't especially like the idea. "I don't question or critique any other politician's style, but I know who Chuck Hagel is," he said. "I know what fits me, and I know what fits my wife. Religion is important to us, spirituality is important, but it's also private.")

His financial independence eased his return to the political sphere and made it only a question of time as to when he'd run for office. He toyed briefly with the idea of running for governor of Virginia, then returned to Nebraska in 1992, going to work for Michael McCarthy as an investment banker. One of the companies he looked after, American Information Systems — later rechristened Election Systems and Software — manufactured voting machines in partnership with The Omaha World-Herald, the state's biggest daily.

It's sometimes said that Nebraska has two Republican parties, one of which calls itself Democrat. That party had won every Senate race for two decades when Hagel started driving from town to town in 1995 to make himself known. In a state with fewer than a million voters, personal contact matters. Dick Robinson, who runs a steel company in the town of Norfolk, said he'd never heard of his visitor when Hagel dropped by to ask for his support. Ten years later, in his skybox at the always-sold-out stadium in Lincoln where the University of Nebraska plays football, Robinson seemed glad to have a distraction from a game the once-indomitable Huskers were giving away to Oklahoma. "It was great to meet a politician who could look you in the eye and say, 'I disagree,' " he said. "We've been fast friends ever since."

Although their state is one of the two or three most lopsidedly Republican in presidential voting, Nebraskans cling to the notion that their wide open spaces — populated by nearly four times as many cattle as people — nurture a spirit of political independence, an indifference to partisanship. Bob Kerrey, a Democrat who couldn't help calling President Clinton "an unusually good liar," is the most recent example. George Norris, a Senate titan for three decades, supported Al Smith in 1928 and Franklin Roosevelt in 1932 against Herbert Hoover while still a Republican, writing an article for Liberty magazine entitled, "Why I Am a Better Republican Than President Hoover."

Chuck Hagel isn't likely to go that far. Having resided full time in Nebraska for only 7 of the last 34 years, he's not apt, in any event, to present himself as a Prairie independent. Viewing himself as a self-made man who started out with nothing besides his own inner resources, he has neither broken with his party nor allowed it to define him. Nor did he wait for his party to decide when it was his turn.

In 1996, in his first race, he took on a Republican attorney general in the Senate primary and won by nearly two to one. In the general election, he upset a popular Democratic governor, Ben Nelson, by a margin of 14 percentage points. Realizing too late that he was trailing, Nelson ran attack ads portraying Hagel as a Washington insider who'd used his connections to enrich himself in the cellphone business. Hagel had earlier resisted demands by Alfonse D'Amato of New York, then chairman of the Republican campaign committee in the Senate, that he order up a series of attack ads by a favorite D'Amato demolition specialist.

Stung by Nelson's barrage, Hagel countered with an ad in The Omaha World-Herald calling them "the most scurrilous and false attacks ever made in Nebraska politics." Not the forgiving sort, he has never quite forgotten his grudge against Nelson, who, for the last five years, has been the state's junior senator. Senator Nelson has since been heard to ask how it could be that he managed to get over a big loss while his colleague has yet to get over a big win.

In the blogosphere, where conspiracy theories enjoy a certain immortality, the scale of Hagel's upset victories in 1996 made him an object of suspicion after the Florida voting fiasco of 2000. Here was a virtual unknown who'd once been an officer of a company that made the voting machines on which most ballots were cast in Nebraska. But these were scanners, not digital counters; paper ballots survived, available for a recount that neither of his rivals sought. (When he ran for re-election in 2002, he won even bigger, capturing 83 percent of the vote, a Nebraska record. Out on the Web, suspicion lived on.)

What Hagel thought he'd showed in his face-offs with Nelson and D'Amato — who'd called him a "prima donna" (and then some) — was that heavy reliance on attack ads wasn't a winning strategy. After not quite two years in the Senate, he put himself up for the campaign committee's chairmanship, sending around a manifesto to his colleagues that promised to thin the ranks of consultants as a step toward cleansing "the political culture in America by 'defining up' the standards of debate, political discourse and campaigns." It was a direct challenge to the leadership, which he accused of running "issueless campaigns." And it flopped. His colleagues weren't responsive to his musings on the state of the political culture. They decided that winning was still "the only thing," voting 39-13 in favor of Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky. Not for the last time, Hagel's position was shown to be lonelier than he'd realized.

He may not have become a leader of his caucus, but, to the likely dismay of the White House, he's also not an outcast. On a personal level, he's still a man who forges connections. In addition to John McCain, he gets along well with the chairmen of his key committees — Pat Roberts of Kansas on Intelligence and Richard Lugar of Indiana on Foreign Relations — and counts Democrats Joe Biden of Delaware and Jack Reed of Rhode Island as among his best friends on the Hill. "I've been in the Senate a long time, and there's nobody I've liked more than Chuck Hagel," Biden told me.

By the time of his loss to McConnell, Hagel had nearly persuaded himself that he felt a fresh breeze blowing in the party from Austin, Tex., which he'd visited in April 1998 for a laid-back overnight at the governor's mansion that included a meandering walk through the gardens with his host, a quiet dinner with just George and Laura Bush, then more talk on an upstairs porch. It was the first real encounter between the two and the most time they'd ever spend together.

He found Bush "a very charming, gregarious person," and when, several months later, on a swing through Nebraska, he was asked whom he liked as the next Republican nominee, he all but endorsed the Texan, citing his name recognition, success in a big state, age and conservative profile.

It proved to be the first time that Bush learned he could not take Chuck Hagel for granted. Before long, John McCain knocked on the Nebraskan's door, divulged his own ambitions and asked his friend to be co-chairman of his campaign. Hagel had to know there were differences in temperament and outlook between himself and McCain, who was more moralistic about international issues, less fascinated by the intricacies of diplomacy, more inclined, perhaps, to brandish military power. But in the Clinton years, these did not loom large. He knew the senator far better than he knew Bush — who was pretty much a blank on national-security issues anyway — and admired him, above all, for his readiness to take lonely stands.

He was sitting with McCain when the South Carolina primary returns came in following a campaign in which McCain's mental stability was questioned and calls were made to likely Republican voters telling them the former P.O.W. and his wife had a black baby, without mentioning that the little girl had been adopted at an orphanage in Bangladesh. Reached by Don Walton, the respected political reporter of The Lincoln Star Journal, Hagel said Bush had "sold his soul to the right wing." He called it "the filthiest campaign I've ever seen."

"I'd say the same thing today," he said when I asked about South Carolina, nearly six years later.

Considering how he'd disappointed Bush after the attention lavished on him in Austin and what he'd said about South Carolina, it's remarkable that Senator Hagel then found himself on the short list for running mate in 2000. To this day, he doesn't know whether he was seriously in contention. Possibly there was some thought that the former member of the Texas Air National Guard could benefit by picking, or at least appearing to consider, a twice-wounded Vietnam vet. Hagel says he spent $15,000 on accountant fees assembling the information the campaign demanded. Dick Cheney, the chief talent scout, interviewed him twice and sent his son-in-law around to pick up a box of documents before it was discovered that the talent scout was actually the talent.

"I still have the box," Hagel said. Nothing could be more unanswerable than the question of what might have happened in Iraq had he been picked. It's a testament to the vice president's influence that it even occurs.

agel had been to Iraq four times by the time Cheney paid his first visit as vice president in December 2005. Today the war is so much in the front of the senator's mind that it pops into just about any answer he gives to a political question, sometimes more than once. When I asked whether he saw himself as a maverick, his reply boiled down to saying he was a consistent conservative. But here's how it began: "When I think of issues like Iraq, of how we went into it — no planning, no preparation, no sense of consequences, of where we were going, how we were going to get out, went in without enough men, no exit strategy, those kind of things — I'll speak out, I'll go against my party."

A minute later, still chewing on the same question, Hagel was relating the retort of a Nebraska friend to a Republican who'd complained that the senator was still out of step with the president. Pretty much the same litany then tumbled out as, speaking in what was supposed to be the friend's voice, Hagel went on: "Who's the conservative here? Who votes against the Medicare reform bill, who votes against No Child Left Behind, who votes against the farm bill, who's opposed to invading another country, occupying another country, with no plans, no exit strategy and not enough troops? Now you tell me who the conservative is."

The trouble with Iraq as an identifying issue for a potential candidate today is that practically everyone except Senator Russ Feingold of Wisconsin and Congressman John Murtha of Pennsylvania, who have flirted with the idea of a deadline for withdrawal, purports to be in essentially the same position with regard to what needs to be happen: hoping that the insurgency will wane, that the Sunnis will somehow be mollified, that the number of U.S. troops can be drawn down this year, that Iraqis will be able to finish the war, more or less on their own. Everyone, for the moment, includes George W. Bush, Hillary Clinton and Chuck Hagel. Some are more hopeful (Bush), and some decidedly less (Hagel). No one now can really know how Iraq will play out in our politics.

It's not, in any case, an issue on which Hagel can easily "position" himself the way most senators who are not satisfied with being senators would. As this least partisan Republican stews on his decision on whether to go national with his sense of frustration, he has to know that his independence and forthrightness, the qualities that so far have defined him, are also his most obvious limitations in the roughhouse game of presidential politics as we know it. A candidate who worries about the price he may have to pay for anything he says would not have called for active engagement with Iran and Cuba as Hagel has regularly done in foreign-policy speeches over the last several years. And he would probably not be displaying, as Hagel has recently done, a newfound sensitivity on civil liberties matters. Through the end of 2004, Hagel's rating on the legislative scorecard of the American Civil Liberties Union was an anemic 22 percent. But at the end of December, as Congress rushed to adjourn, he was one of only four Republican senators whose votes held up an extension of the Patriot Act, arguing for checks on federal powers to invade homes and private records that had passed the Senate unanimously but then had been dropped in conference.

"When government continues to erode individual rights, that's the most dangerous, dangerous threat to freedom there is," he said, calling it "far more dangerous than terrorism." His reaction was similarly sharp when he first heard of the report in this newspaper that the president had claimed authority to order domestic wiretapping without court approval. "If, in fact, this is true," he said, "then it needs to stop." When the White House acknowledged it was true, Hagel pressed for Congressional hearings and a national debate. "I think Congress has failed the country in many ways," he said at a forum in California last month. One way was to allow the administration "to completely overpower the debate based on, 'I'm the commander in chief, and I know what's best.' "

As he road-tests themes for a possible campaign, he argues that his party is running low on ideas for the country's future, so fixated has it been on the threat of terrorism and maintaining itself in power. The importance of terrorism can't be minimized, he hastens to say, but through neglect of research and infrastructure, through failures in education, the country is losing its edge in a competitive world economy. Sure, globalization causes dislocations, this devout free trader and new-economy entrepreneur says, and, sure, the rise of China presents problems, but these are facts of life "that we are not going to unwind." Forty-six years after a senator last made it directly to the White House, he gropes for words in which to talk about national purpose, about a Manhattan Project for alternate energy sources, about getting the country moving again. These themes are in the air; President Bush latched onto them in his State of the Union address in January.

Earlier in the month, Hagel had already tried them out at a breakfast talk to a conservative group in Orange County, Calif. The breakfast had opened with an invocation in which "the vision of a former lifeguard called Dutch" and the American engagement in Iraq had been gratefully cited as part of "God's plan" to spread freedom around the globe. That left Hagel sounding a little impious when he gave his cool assessment of the venture on the Euphrates. Iraq may yet work out, he said. "I don't think it will, but it may." But as for the conservative revolution in America, "Where," he asked, "is Phase 2?"

The audience — youngish businessfolk who had formed a new political action committee called Atlas, after Ayn Rand's paean to competitiveness, "Atlas Shrugged" — seemed mildly appreciative rather than shocked.

"This administration has kept America on such a narrow ledge," he remarked after the talk. "Everything is terrorism."

In Washington, I asked Senator McCain whether he saw his pal next door as a serious candidate in 2008. The senator, who rode a campaign bus he called the Straight Talk Express in 2000, knows something about the advantages and disadvantages of candor in a national campaign. In this instance he either misconstrued or sidestepped my question. He replied that Hagel was definitely serious, one of the two, three or four leading voices on national security and foreign policy in the Senate. "Chuck really works at it," he said.

McCain was an early enthusiast for the war in Iraq, Hagel an early skeptic. Could he imagine the co-chairman of his first national race having a place on a McCain ticket or in a McCain administration? I asked. "I'd be honored to have Chuck with me in any capacity," McCain replied. "He'd make a great secretary of state."

Propriety and common sense argue that it's too early to place such bets. Hagel isn't ready to have the conversation with McCain that he knows he'll have to have. He's still at the stage of testing audience responses, of looking into faces to see if they give back any hint of encouragement, even recognition. "Hello," he'll say, sticking out his hand to a receptionist or a registration clerk, "I'm Senator Chuck Hagel." He has done it often enough to know that the likely response is a blank stare, but still he persists as he travels beyond Washington and Nebraska, to Los Angeles, New York, Iowa, New Hampshire, even McCain territory — he had a fund-raiser in Phoenix last month — trying to identify potential donors and supporters.

Whatever he concludes, he promises he'll go on saying what he thinks a senator should say about issues as they arise. "I don't have to be president; I don't have to be a senator," he said over dinner in an Omaha steakhouse. "I have to live with myself." More striking than the words was the urgency with which he spoke them. He seemed to be speaking more to himself than his companions, as if repeating a vow. Of course, we know, or think we know, that people who don't have to be president are unlikely to get the chance.
169 2006-02-12 I love Beetles. They are perky and whimsical.

Her philosophy of presidential living: I've been president of three universities and worked in the White House, so I have strong views about what a president's house should be. It should be elegant and warm. It should reflect the taste of the occupant. Most of all, it should be accessible. In this house you can put your feet up on anything.

Her roommate: Sweetie is a rescue dog. She was found beaten and lying in a Dumpster. She's like a toy German Shepherd, but she'd be upset if she knew I told you that.

She wouldn't want to be described as small.

Personal hero: I have always admired Amelia Earhart. She was brave and she was willing to risk everything to achieve her goals.

What's always by her bed: The cheapest and simplest alarm clock you can find. I want an alarm clock that I don't have to worry about setting or programming.

What she's reading: Right now I am reading about health care, because I am teaching a class in it.

Book she has read the most times:

James Hilton's "Lost Horizon." It's a novel about a group of people whose plane crashes

in Tibet. It's really about morality.

How she beats the heat: All the rooms have fans.

I hate air-conditioning. I don't want to pretend that we don't use air-conditioning in the summer, but I don't like it.

I love to sit and look out the back window and see my lawn and the waterway leading to the bay.

Sweetie's favorite place in house: She has four dog beds here and there. You'll find her relaxing on one of those wherever people have congregated.

Gadget she can't live without: My iPod. I just love it. I listen to it when I travel and when I walk the dog. I put books on it. At the moment I have the opera "Madame Butterfly" on it.

Favorite design element: Political cartoons about me. My favorite one shows a little girl telling a little boy: "You be the doctor. I'll be the secretary of health and human services."

At age 5, what she wanted to be: A journalist.

A 1790 French country cabinet from the estate of the late Washington Post columnist Meg Greenfield. I always loved it and admired it, and it reminds me of Meg and the times I spent with her.

I bought it when I came down here because I have a dock, and I thought it would be fun. But I just don't use it enough. If anyone wants it, it's for sale. It seats 12.

Favorite Washington memento: A photo of me in the Oval Office with President Clinton's old dog, Buddy. Everybody in Washington has pictures of themselves with the president. I've got one with the First Dog.

Favorite Republican: Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska. He's always been committed to women's sports. I used to play tennis with him when I was in Washington, and I just like him.

What's always in the fridge: Yogurt, Lebanese pita bread -- my family is Lebanese -- some mangoes or grapefruit that I've picked in my garden and dog food.

Guilty pleasure: I don't really like sweets, so I'd say an Iranian lamb kebab with white rice. I shouldn't eat the white rice. It's quite fattening, but I love it. Also, popcorn.

Favorite sport: Tennis. My strengths are my backhand and drop shot. My weaknesses: I'm not as quick as I used to be, and I don't have a great serve.

Person she would most like to meet: Bono.

Talent she covets: More language skills. I speak Arabic, Farsi, English and a little French, and I read German. I'm studying Spanish, but it hasn't been easy for me, and you have to understand that my Farsi and Arabic are marginal.

Procrastination technique: Surfing the Web. I look at sports Internet sites. I especially read all the insider columns about college sports.

Household chore she's most fastidious about: Not leaving food around. In Florida it can be quite dangerous, with the bugs.

Household chore she's least fastidious about: Making my bed. Fortunately someone comes around and makes it for me.

Favorite vacation spot: The kingdom of Bhutan. I am partial to isolated places with big mountains near them. The cold air clears my head.

Collection: I started buying rugs in 1962 when I was a Peace Corps volunteer in southern Iran. I collect tribal rugs, not Persian rugs, because they often used child labor to tie the tiny knots in Persian rugs.

Favorite rug: I have a wonderful kilim in my foyer that I actually used as a bedspread in Iran, because it was so cold in the desert at night. It reminds me of my youth, and of adventure, and of the tribes of Iran, whom I came to admire.

Broken item she can't part with: A 15th-century tray that I bought in Kashmir. It's battered and plain and really sort of ugly, but I had a base made for it and use it as a table.

Favorite recent gift: The minimalist artist Richard Tuttle gave me a montage he made in 2001 called "Art and Power."

Most evenings I have something to do. There is often a reception of some sort, or a dinner at the house. Once a week I'll entertain at home. My guests can be anyone from high school counselors to the Dalai Lama.

Where dinner is served: I had a special table built by local craftsmen. It's three square tables that together seat 12 people, but you can take the tabletops off and attach large round tabletops that seat 24.

Greatest misconception about job: People think it's really hard, but I think it's easy. I like doing many things at once. The more complicated and messy it gets, the happier I am.

Favorite Clinton memento: When his term was over, he gave each cabinet member a beautiful Lenox bowl with text that says, "Thanks for Making America a Place Called Hope."

Possession that best defines her: There's a drawing of me done by the artist Susan Kapilow, which was a study for my official portrait at Health and Human Services. When I said I wanted the sketch, Susan said, "It's unfinished." I replied, "I'm unfinished." Interview by Edward Lewine
170 2006-02-12 McCALL -- Janet J. (nee Jones). Wife of Julien L. McCall of Hunting Valley, OH, formerly of Darien, CT, beloved mother of Melissa of Hunting Valley, OH, Alison G. of NYC, NY and Julien L. Jr. (Lash) of London, England. Loving grandmother of Blinn ...
171 2006-02-12 According to a score of responses by members of the National Association of Personal Financial Advisors, there are legions of investors who know these basics but are largely innocent of other important elements of tax law governing mutual funds.

For example, long-term investors who plow back dividends and capital gains distributions into their mutual funds, most often automatically, commonly fail to include these in the cost basis of shares to avoid overpaying taxes when shares are eventually sold.

"The yearly taxation on mutual funds is maddeningly difficult to manage if dividends are reinvested," said Steven Podnos, the proprietor of Wealth Care in Merritt Island, Fla. Even a meticulous record-keeper will have trouble figuring the cost of holdings that include perhaps dozens of lots of shares reinvested over a financial lifetime.

The solution recommended by Mr. Podnos and others is to violate conventional investment advice and to take dividends in cash. That, he said, will "keep the basis as original for later capital gains calculations." While this does not directly affect the amount of tax due, it sharply reduces paperwork and makes errors on the eventual sale of shares less likely.

There are many other considerations. The law offers choices for figuring the cost basis of holdings, a process that can become especially complex for investors who both reinvest dividends and capital gains and periodically sell off some of their fund shares.

One option is to use the average cost of your shares -- a method that can be used for mutual fund sales but not for those of individual stocks. Another is to designate specific lots of shares to be sold, usually those that cost the most. A third option, the default if you don't choose one of the others, is FIFO, for "first in first out," which assumes that the first shares bought are the ones sold. A fourth choice is a refinement of the average cost method, in which a distinction is drawn between long-term and short-term holdings.

Average cost is the most commonly used method, and most fund groups now routinely calculate and provide this figure for you. If you are looking to minimize the tax hit of a sale, however, the best method is the most flexible one: the designation of specific shares.

Keeping track of specific lots of shares, of course, requires assiduous bookkeeping. You need not only a lifetime of purchase records, including reinvestments of dividends and capital gains, but also documentation of instructions for fund sales.

"Unless you want to go through all that," advised Sam Beardsley, director of investment taxation at the T. Rowe Price Group in Baltimore, "most people would select average cost." And the hiring of an accountant to help you use specific identification, he added, would probably cost more than the tax savings.

Keep in mind that once you choose any of these methods, you must stick with it year after year.

Another tax consideration is the set of rules governing "wash" sales; these rules deny a deduction if you sell fund shares at a loss and then buy them back within 30 days. You can avoid this problem by reinvesting your money in a different fund, even one that invests in similar kinds of stocks and bonds. However, the I.R.S. has never ruled on the question of whether selling one index fund and buying another that holds essentially the same securities would be allowed.

As if fund taxation weren't already complicated, the 2003 tax law shifted incentives governing the location of fund assets. "It used to be that stock funds would be put in tax-deferred accounts and income-based investment would go in taxable accounts," said Warren McIntyre, the owner of VisionQuest Financial Planning in Troy, Mich. This, he said, reflected higher tax rates of an earlier time and the fact that retirement income is normally taken first from taxable accounts.

But the tax act further cut capital gains rates and chopped the maximum rate on qualified dividends to 15 percent. The new law prompted Mr. McIntyre to shift income-oriented funds that do not qualify for the 15 percent dividend rate -- real estate investment trusts and high-yield bond bonds, for example -- into retirement accounts. He has moved growth stock money -- preferably in funds with minimal portfolio turnover -- into taxable accounts.

He also said that the new law made variable annuities, which he dislikes, even less attractive. These contracts defer tax liability and pay out varying amounts, depending on the market value of the underlying investments. "With dividends and capital gains capped at 15 percent," he asked, "why would you want to build up a tax liability in an annuity when you will eventually have to pay the tax at ordinary tax rates, which are much higher?"

SOME advisers, however, wonder whether that 15 percent rate, scheduled to expire at the end of 2008, will survive huge projected federal budget deficits.

"I have been encouraging more clients to take profits," said Emerson Bell, principal of Fee Only Financial Planning in Dallas. "I can't see that 15 percent staying around much longer."

Amid the legislative twists and turns, however, it always pays to consider tax consequences, without letting them dictate basic investment decisions.

"Paying attention to taxes is one of the most effective tools to enhance wealth over time," said Duncan W. Richardson, executive vice president and chief equity investment officer at Eaton Vance in Boston. "The easiest way to add value to a portfolio is to understand the tax code enough to properly locate assets and know which ones to sell first should you need to liquidate."

Investors who buy and sell mutual fund shares face an assortment of tax issues. Here are some recommendations from financial planners.

Remember that switching funds, even within the same fund family, can have tax consequences.

Avoid buying shares late in the year so you are not liable for taxes on gains in which you did not participate; sell before the distribution date.

Consider taking distributions in cash rather than reinvesting them in new fund shares. That will simplify bookkeeping.

Evaluate the various methods of determining the cost basis of shares before making what will be a permanent commitment.

Keep in mind the rules governing "wash" sales, which can make reinvestments as well as repurchases hazardous.
172 2006-02-12 To the Editor: I applaud and appreciate Seth Kugel's in-depth and well-researched feature, ''Preservation: Sure, It's a Good Thing, but '' (Journeys, Jan. 15), which accurately captured many of the site-level complexities of dealing with tourism i...
173 2006-02-12 North Jersey is well known for its legendary hot dog havens, and all of them have their champions. For the most part, though, none of the restaurants have tried to break new ground, staying with traditional accouterments to dress the dogs.      At...
174 2006-02-12 In The Guardian, Germaine Greer took critical measure of a fellow feminist, Betty Friedan, the author of ''The Feminine Mystique,'' who died on Feb. 4 at 85.      In its time, ''The Feminine Mystique'' was a book that spoke to American women loud ...
175 2006-02-12 BAGHDAD, Iraq, Feb. 11 - Shiite political leaders failed to agree Saturday on their nominee to be Iraq's new prime minister, saying they would take a vote on Sunday if efforts to pick a candidate by consensus had not succeeded by then.

The Shiite United Iraqi Alliance, which won the largest bloc of seats in the December elections, had expected to formally nominate Adel Abdul Mahdi on Saturday, spokesmen said. Mr. Mahdi, a moderate Islamist and vice president who belongs to the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq, the alliance's largest faction, is well liked by many Sunni Arab and Kurdish leaders, who will take part in a national unity government.

But Ibrahim al-Jaafari, Iraq's current prime minister and the other leading candidate for the post, has refused to withdraw his name from contention, and he still commands wide support in the Shiite ranks.

"All of us want to pick a new prime minister by consensus," said Sami al-Askari, an independent Shiite member of the alliance. "But it seems none of the candidates are willing to withdraw."

The Shiite leaders will meet Sunday in one more effort to pick a premier by consensus, and if that fails, as is now expected, they will conduct a secret ballot, the results of which will be final, Mr. Askari said. The largest bloc in Parliament has the constitutional right to pick a prime minister, who will lead the country's first full-term government.
176 2006-02-12 To the Editor:     I disagree with the idea that job status governs the allotment of menial tasks in the home.      The fact is, most men do not care if the shower ever gets cleaned or the pans get washed. Women care, so they just do the work.    ...
177 2006-02-12 To the Editor:     Re ''Yes, Towns Can Seize Land, but Aren't There Limits?'' (Feb. 5):     Eminent domain sits at the pinnacle of the regulatory chain that elevates the communal good over the individual's use of property. The arguments pit develo...
178 2006-02-12 To the Editor:     We should not devalue all care-giving work traditionally associated with women. The truth is, every diaper change is an opportunity for a parent or other caregiver to look lovingly into a child's eyes and raise that child's self...
179 2006-02-12 "It's no secret that we don't know where they are," Morten Hojem Ervik, the police prosecutor who is coordinating the case, acknowledged in an interview.

Sitting on a wooden bench outside an Oslo courthouse before yet another wearying pretrial hearing, Mr. Hojem Ervik tried valiantly to put a positive gloss on the situation. But the fact that the paintings are still at large is as much a source of embarrassment to Norwegians as is the original crime.

"These paintings are national treasures, but also international icons," Jorunn Christoffersen, director of communications at the Munch Museum, said in a recent interview.

Followers of this sort of crime may remember that "The Scream" was stolen once before, in 1994. But that was a different version, the one owned by the National Art Museum across town (there are four versions in all, each a slight variation of the others; one is in private hands and one is a work on paper). And that theft was risibly amateurish, involving a ladder propped up against a second-floor window and a thief so nervous he fell off, nearly braining his accomplice. Timing their crime for maximum public exposure on the morning of the first day of the Winter Olympics in Lillehammer, the thieves escaped with "The Scream" and left a snide little note behind. "Thanks for the poor security," it said.

That story had a happier conclusion. The police recovered the painting four months later after an elaborate undercover sting operation, and it once again hangs in the National Art Museum (away from the windows).

But the 2004 theft was slicker and more violent, and the ensuing investigation has proved to be that much more difficult. From the beginning, everything seemed to conspire against the investigators, starting with the glaring lack of security at the Munch Museum, which had not so much as a cordon to keep people away from the art on the walls. "As easy as robbing a kiosk," one police officer was quoted as telling reporters.

The police took so long to arrive that by the time they did, the crime scene had been contaminated with additional visitors, and many of the witnesses, including tourists sick of hanging around, had already left. Although the closed-circuit television cameras in front of the museum were working, they showed only grainy hooded figures moving swiftly across the grass -- no help for identification purposes.

The police do know something of what happened next. Clutching the paintings, breaking off bits of their frames (and twice dropping "Madonna" on their way out), the thieves bundled into a black Audi idling outside and were driven away by an accomplice. They abandoned the car shortly thereafter, after spraying its interior with a fire extinguisher in an effort to obliterate forensic evidence. The police found it later that day.

The Munch Museum waited for a ransom demand. Dozens of calls came in -- one from a psychic who claimed to feel the paintings' presence in the United States, another from a trio of Filipino witches who said they could intuit the paintings' whereabouts, though only if they received an original Munch first -- but nothing credible. And then, nothing at all.

If the thieves were looking to make a splash, they certainly succeeded. Munch painted both works in the 1890's during a period of great, tortured creativity. "Madonna" (1893-94) is precious, but "The Scream" (1893) is part of the national psyche. Its arresting image -- the strong, swirling brush strokes; the bold, vivid colors; the anguished skeletal figure at the center, his mouth frozen in a rictus of psychic pain -- makes it one of the world's most recognizable paintings.

A favorite of tortured adolescents, of readers of Dostoyevsky and Schopenhauer, of anyone who has ever felt overwhelmed by the horrors of existence, "The Scream" has been widely appropriated in popular culture. It has been evoked by Macaulay Culkin in "Home Alone," turned into a brisk-selling line of inflatable plastic dolls and used on anti-Bush buttons (and toilet paper) in the 2004 election with the question, "Bush again?" (An exhibition, "Edvard Munch: The Modern Life of the Soul," is scheduled to open on Feb. 19 at the Museum of Modern Art.)

The worth of "The Scream" and "Madonna" together has been put at anywhere from $40 million to $100 million. But the reality is that such paintings are far too recognizable, and their histories too well known, to be sold openly.

"They're never going to come on the legitimate art market," said Sarah Jackson, recoveries and historical research director of the Art Loss Register, which keeps a database of some 160,000 stolen and looted artworks and antiques.

"Paintings like that are commonly sold for ransom purposes or as a tool for reducing your sentence if you're arrested for some other crime," said Detective Sgt. Vernon Rapley, commanding officer of Scotland Yard's art and antiques squad.

Many such pictures turn up years and even decades later, after they have passed through dozens of hands. Some never surface again.

The authorities say they know, at least, where the Munchs were hidden for a month after the theft: in a bus parked on farmland north of Oslo belonging to Thomas Nataas, a man said to be on the fringes of Oslo's criminal community.

In a recent interview with Reuters, Mr. Nataas, 25, who is to stand trial on charges of handling stolen goods -- the other defendants face different charges -- claimed that the paintings had been stashed in his bus, covered in plastic sheets, without his permission. (The police dispute that, saying he had allowed his bus to be used.) When the thieves finally told him they were there, Mr. Nataas says, he saw the paintings briefly, long enough to determine that "Madonna" had a small rip in it and that "The Scream" was undamaged.

Speaking on Norwegian television, Mr. Nataas also said the police had been eavesdropping on him via a wiretap. "I don't know why the police didn't come and pick up the paintings," Mr. Nataas said. "They had full control."

But by the time the police did arrive at the farm, the thieves had retrieved their loot and the trail was once again cold.

Mr. Hojem Ervik, the prosecutor, acknowledged that some undercover officers had indeed been close by when the paintings were moved. "We had some information that these pictures could change hands, but we didn't know where or who was involved," he said. "We had too little information to move in. When the undercover unit arrived, they had already left."

A full eight months passed before the police arrested Petter Rosenvinge, 38, who has been charged with selling the getaway car to the thieves. He in turn led them to the other defendants in the case, they say. These are Bjorn Hoen, 37, who has previous convictions for robbery and fraud and who has been charged with orchestrating the entire operation; Morten Hugo Johansen, 38, charged with storing and delivering the getaway car; Petter Tharaldsen, 34, who is serving time for another robbery and has been charged with driving the getaway car; and Stian Skjold, 30, who has been charged with the actual robbery. (The other robber is still at large, as well as others said to be involved.)

According to Norwegian law, the police do not discuss individual defendants or the charges against them before a trial. But Mr. Hojem Ervik is willing to discuss his theory about how they pulled it off: "We think this is part of an organized robbery network," he said.

The Norwegian news media has aggressively followed leads about the suspects' wider connections to the European criminal underworld, particularly the violent Kosovar Albanian gangs with footholds in the region. But Mr. Hojem Ervik insisted that the theft was a homegrown affair, "planned by Norwegians and carried out by Norwegians."

In fact, some see a link to a theft that took place four months earlier, which remains one of the most spectacular robberies in Norwegian history. A gang of criminals parked a truck in front of the police station in the town of Stavanger, set fire to it and tossed tear gas at the officers running from the building. With the police incapacitated, more than a dozen men armed with automatic weapons used sledgehammers to break into the counting room at Nokas, a cash transport service nearby, in the basement of Norway's central bank. Firing repeatedly at the police, most of whom were unarmed, they killed one officer and escaped with $8.5 million.

The theory that the Munch paintings were stolen as a way to distract the police from the Stavanger case -- as well as to demonstrate that the criminal world can do what it likes -- is popular in the Norwegian news media. Rolf Wideroe, who has been covering the two cases for Verdens Gang, one of Norway's largest newspapers, said in an interview that the Munch defendants were connected to David Toska, who has been charged in the Stavanger case.

Mr. Hojem Ervik declined to say one way or another.

"His name is mentioned," he said of Mr. Toska, "but we have not wanted to comment."

Mr. Toska and Bjorn Hoen, the Munch defendant, were also associated with William Ellingsen, a longtime figure in the Norwegian criminal underworld, who was shot and killed in February 2004 outside an Oslo nightclub, Mr. Wideroe said. In another strand of the cat's cradle of connections, Mr. Ellingsen was one of the men behind the 1994 Munch robberies, according to the authorities. (He was convicted, but freed on appeal when a court ruled that the operation to recover "The Scream" had been illegally carried out.)

With six defendants awaiting trial, why can the police not persuade them to reveal where the lost Munchs are?

"The main reason is that they're terrified of retaliation," said Charles Hill, a former detective with Scotland Yard's art and antiques squad, who orchestrated the return of "The Scream" in 1994 and now works as an art recovery consultant. "If any of these guys talk, the criminals will go after their families."

With the paintings still missing, the authorities have been attacked at every turn: for lax security, for inept detective work and, by some critics, for devoting too much time and money to the case.

Mr. Hojem Ervik claims the investigation has had a secondary benefit, however: it has brought the number of violent robberies way down, in part because more criminals are in custody, and in part because the rest know the police are watching them. "We have really put the heat on these criminals, and I think they know that," he said.

As for the museum, it closed after the robbery and reopened 10 months later, after a $6 million security overhaul. The galleries have been reconfigured to make it harder to get in. Visitors now walk through metal detectors. Employees must use special cards and numerical codes to enter offices and conference rooms.

For a time, the museum did a brisk business selling a "Scream" board game in which players could take on the roles of the robbers and the police. But it was pulled in response to public complaints.

Speaking in the cafeteria, feet away from where the thieves entered the museum in 2004, Mrs. Christoffersen tried not to criticize the police, saying she believed they were doing the best they could. But a museum without its masterpiece is like a body without a limb.

"For us, the important thing is to have our paintings back," she said.
180 2006-02-12 To the Editor:     Judith Warner says that the feminist revolution did not take us far enough.     As a woman who had to disobey her father to send herself to college, and as an artist and writer, I was fully sympathetic to that revolution.      B...
181 2006-02-12 The votes on Mr. Alito weren't the first to raise a reader's ire. Andrew Patner, of Chicago, got specific in a Dec. 22 e-mail to me. "In the last week alone we have seen tight votes on at least four matters of great importance -- matters judged to be so by editors of The Times who have seen fit to place the coverage of these stories on the paper's front page," he said, but without "any list, box, or other table of the actual votes cast." A clear contrast emerged with Mr. Patner's citation of a Dec. 21 Senate vote on oil drilling in Alaska; twice before, The Times had printed the roll-call vote on a Senate measure involving Arctic drilling, my assistant, Joseph Plambeck, found.

Richard W. Stevenson, a deputy bureau chief in Washington with responsibility for Congressional coverage, acknowledged that a change has taken place. "With space tight, we have drifted away in the last few years from printing roll-call votes in the newspaper," he said. "There are cases where we should make a greater effort to find space for them in the print version of the paper; Supreme Court confirmations would certainly be among them."

Not only are fewer roll-call votes appearing in the paper; the Metro section has also eliminated its regular listing of votes cast by legislators from the New York City area. "Faced with shrinking space, we decided to discontinue that feature," Patrick LaForge, a deputy metro editor, said in an e-mail.

Space in the paper is limited, as John Geddes, a managing editor, explained in my Q&A with him on Jan. 29. But it's generally not an issue online, and providing roll-call votes would seem to be in the sweet spot of the paper's Web site.

Yet the Web site has been inconsistent in providing reader-friendly access to votes, including during the Alito nomination. The site does provide the Congressional Guide box on the Washington home page (nytimes.com/politics), which can eventually lead readers to key votes in Congress -- but it requires multiple clicks and no surefire results. Not often enough, the Web site provides a link to roll-call votes next to an article about the vote.

"We think it would be great to link to more of this kind of information to make it simpler for readers to find," Richard J. Meislin, associate managing editor for Internet publishing, said. "But all these things require degrees of human and mechanical intervention that we need to weigh against other improvements to the site that are in the works. I'm confident their time will come."

Lisa Tozzi, the senior producer for national, Washington and metro coverage at nytimes.com, said, "We try to make a practice of linking to the roll-call votes on big stories." Since creating direct links to roll-call votes is difficult to automate, they demand time from someone at nytimes.com, she said. "We would need a producer to find the vote and manually add the link to the vote in the story," Ms. Tozzi noted.

Some in the newsroom suggest that when a vote hews closely to party lines, readers are adequately served if the story takes a paragraph or two to name the legislators who crossed over to vote with the opposition. The Times's Feb. 1 article on the final confirmation vote on Mr. Alito named the one Republican senator who opposed the nominee and the four Democrats who supported him. This is better than nothing, but shouldn't stop the Web site from providing an easy link or from directing print readers to the vote online.

The printed paper's juggling of a fixed amount of total news space to cover events such as Katrina or Iraq shouldn't be allowed to drive out core public-service journalism such as important roll-call votes. I'm thinking of Congressional measures that get substantive treatment in a Times news article with a major headline. Even if space is horribly tight, readers can still be served. "At a minimum," Mr. Stevenson correctly pointed out, "we should be more systematic about ensuring that votes on important bills and nominations be posted on the Web site and that we direct readers of the print newspaper to that information."

Online priorities may need to be reviewed. Mustering human and technical resources to provide video clips of votes, as it did with the final Alito vote, or launch edgy blogs can help make nytimes.com a stronger player -- one better positioned to give readers the news they need in an increasingly digital world. But finding the resources to simply give readers links to roll-call votes on all significant stories seems to be getting too low a priority.

In a column last August, I assessed The Times's expanded use of freelancers and its efforts to check outside contributors for possible conflicts of interest.

At the time, there wasn't any formal procedure for vetting freelancers for possible conflicts. My Aug. 14 column offered examples of situations where freelancers had been belatedly found to have a conflict of interest. In one case, where the article had appeared, an Editors' Note was published; in another, the completed story was discarded before publication.

But editors at The Times said that a planned electronic system for freelancer contracts and payments would include a process requiring all outside contributors to respond to a set of pointed questions about possible conflicts of interest. Editors said the questions would be incorporated in the new electronic system throughout the newsroom "within a few months."

Following up six months later, I found that the conflict-of-interest questions aren't yet incorporated in the system or required of anyone. "The system has required more tweaking than we imagined in order to meet the differing requirements" of various departments, William E. Schmidt, an assistant managing editor, said. "Constraints on resources have had an impact on the rollout of a number of projects, forcing us to juggle priorities." Mr. Schmidt now expects the vetting questionnaire to be online in most departments by "the end of March."

The Times Magazine and the Book Review, both heavy users of outside contributors, aren't yet being served by even the contracts and payments parts of the electronic system. The rollout of the questionnaire there will take longer, Mr. Schmidt said.

Human intervention will be required. Editors will be instructed not to make assignments unless the system shows the freelancer has completed the questionnaire.

The electronic system will provide backup, although it theoretically could come after publication. It won't allow a freelancer to get paid unless the conflict-of-interest questions have been answered.
182 2006-02-12 To the Editor:     Many women today think they can have full-time jobs and raise children and do everything else. They are fooling themselves. It's a myth, and women were unrealistic to think this was ever a possibility.      In this respect, men ...
183 2006-02-12 That made the night Heil's, and Heil's alone. As the two-time defending World Cup champion, she came in as the favorite and never faltered.

She finished first in the qualifying round. Then, with a full moon glowing, she had a beautiful final run down the dimpled moguls course, her legs acting like pogo sticks as she bounced over the bumps, her body defying gravity as she flew into the air for her two jumps.

Her first trick was a 360-degree spin. For her second, she did a back flip with her skis crossed; that gave her a chance to see the crowd while she was upside down, she said.

Heil's score was 26.50 points, a sizable lead over her idol, the four-time Olympian Kari Traa of Norway, who finished second with 25.65. Sandra Laoura of France was third with 25.37.

"I was relaxed for the first time in a long time," Heil, 22, said. "So I knew it was going to be a good day for me."

Between qualifying and the final, Heil kept loose by riding a spinning bike in her hotel room. She then asked her mother to bring her favorite lunch, a turkey-and-ham sandwich. She was calm because she remembered how the 2002 Olympics unfolded for Traa.

In Salt Lake City, Traa finished first in qualifying, then went on to win the final. Heil, who missed the bronze medal in 2002 by one-hundredth of a point, used Traa's example as inspiration on Saturday.

"She's pushed the sport so far; it's been amazing to compete with her," Heil said of Traa, 32, who sat next to her and nodded. "This is her third Olympic medal, and I think it's an honor to compete with her."

Heil and Traa made it easily into the final round of 20 competitors, while the American skiers struggled.

Kearney, who tucks her long blond braids into the strap of her ski goggles, was the first American down the course in qualifying. She failed to get into a rhythm and stumbled after the second mogul, then continued to slide all over the course.

At the bottom, Kearney, 19, stayed to see if her run was good enough to make the final. When she learned it was not -- she was 22nd -- she flipped down her red-rimmed goggles and tried to stay calm.

"I was kind of out of control, trying to pull it in and I couldn't," she said, sniffling as her eyes grew glassy behind the goggles. "It wasn't quite good enough."

Just after saying, "It's not the end of the world," she walked away, buried her face in her gloves and sobbed.

Kearney slid on dark sunglasses and showed up to watch her teammates compete in the final. Their performances did not boost her mood.

"Unfortunately, it was a momentum thing," said Jeff Wintergreen, the coach of the United States freestyle skiing team. "When Hannah didn't ski well at the beginning, it kind of filtered down to everyone else as the day went on."

"It's crushing," he said of Kearney's performance. "We had a great shot at winning this thing."

Vogtli said it just was not her day. Michelle Roark, who was 18th, said she was too revved up and botched her first jump. Of the American team's results, she said in a wavering voice, "We're so sorry."

Bahrke, the spark plug of the team, said she had felt energized for the final. She put sparkly silver makeup around her eyes. Her mother painted red, white and blue stars at the outer edges of them. As she stood at the top of the course, she looked at the huge full moon behind her, then pumped her arms three times and was ready to go.

But Bahrke's first jump, an off-axis, or crooked, 720-degree spin, was sloppy, and she could not recover.

"It's disappointing because I won't be on the 'Today' show this time," she said, comparing this experience with her second-place finish at the 2002 Olympics. "There's nothing like winning an Olympic medal."

That is something Heil learned firsthand.
184 2006-02-12 But these humane efforts were dashed by the battlefield necessities of World War I. In April 1915, hoping for a military breakthrough, Germany launched the war's first major chemical attack, releasing chlorine gas to blow toward French and Algerian troops in their trenches at Ypres, in Belgium. As Tucker gruesomely recounts, along four miles of the front line, tons of yellow-green gas rose to a height of 30 feet as the wind slowly edged it forward. The lethal cloud scorched the eyes and lungs of the terrified French and Algerian soldiers, who vomited and collapsed in agony. Hundreds died, coughing up blood and green froth. The soldiers' silver insignia and buckles immediately turned greenish black. Five months later, Britain launched its own retaliatory chlorine attack, and by 1916 both the Allies and the Central Powers were using artillery packed with chemicals -- a total collapse of the Hague declaration.

The diplomats tried again in 1925, with the Geneva Protocol banning the use of chemical weapons in war, although not the manufacture and stockpiling of them. But the United States would not ratify the treaty until 1975, and Weimar Germany and the Soviet Union signed but secretly developed chemical weapons anyway. And even though Italy had ratified the Geneva Protocol, Mussolini used mustard agent during the 1935-36 conquest of Ethiopia.

Nazi Germany pioneered a new generation of odorless and quick-killing nerve agents like sarin, designed to overcome Allied protective gear. In a report for Hermann Göring, the head of I. G. Farben's board of directors boasted that chemical weapons were "the weapon of superior intelligence." But Hitler, while mass-murdering defenseless Jews with Zyklon B, was more cautious on the battlefield: fearing Allied retaliation against German cities, he planned to use chemical weapons in World War II only if the Allies did first.

During the cold war, the United States and the Soviet Union raced to improve their arsenals of nerve agents, and America used Agent Orange and tear gas in Vietnam. By the 1960's, the technology spread into the developing world. During its 1962-67 war in Yemen, Egypt (another cheating Geneva member) used chemical bombs on villages. Although Iraq was also a party to Geneva, Saddam Hussein authorized chemical warfare against Iranian troops in the 1980's (using weapons made with help from West German, Dutch, Swiss, American and French companies) and gassed his own Kurdish population in the 1988 Anfal extermination campaign. In 1983, in a 90-minute meeting with Hussein in Baghdad to discuss improving ties with Iraq, Donald Rumsfeld, as Reagan's special envoy, never mentioned Iraq's chemical strikes.

The current stage of chemical proliferation, Tucker warns, involves terrorist groups, like the Aum Shinrikyo cultists who killed 19 people with sarin in two incidents in Japan in 1994 and 1995. Two years before the 9/11 attacks, Osama bin Laden said that he had the right to seek nuclear, biological and chemical weapons.

Tucker wants to strengthen the effectiveness of international norms. He optimistically notes that the overwhelming majority of countries have joined the Chemical Weapons Convention, isolating and stigmatizing nonsignatories like North Korea and Syria, and helping to keep precursor chemicals beyond their grasp. But he warns that "determined cheaters may not be deterred without a credible threat of economic or military sanctions." America and Russia are both taking too long to destroy their huge stockpiles, as well as insisting on the right to use incapacitating chemicals to foil terrorists -- as Russian security forces disastrously tried to do during the 2002 Chechen terrorist seizure of a Moscow theater, where Russian gas accidentally killed 127 hostages. Tucker's book makes a sobering case for a less poisonous world, but governments do not seem to be getting much wiser.

'War of Nerves: Chemical Warfare From World War I to Al-Qaeda,' by Jonathan B. Tucker Gary J. Bass, an associate professor at the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton University, is writing a book on humanitarian intervention.

Correction: March 5, 2006, Sunday A review on Feb. 12 about "War of Nerves: Chemical Warfare From World War I to Al-Qaeda," by Jonathan B. Tucker, referred imprecisely to the United States' use of tear gas and the defoliant Agent Orange in the Vietnam War. Unlike most of the other substances discussed in the review, neither was designed to cause direct casualties. However, the use of tear gas to flush enemy soldiers from hiding and Agent Orange to destroy overhead cover provoked debate about whether they should be counted as true chemical weapons under international law.
185 2006-02-12 IT was only after eating flaming sausages at Tasca el Corral and fried sardines at La Plata that we got down to the business of nibbling pig's lips at Bar Celta, a brightly lighted, blue-painted wood tapas bar in Barcelona that specializes in Gali...
186 2006-02-12 To the Editor:     Re ''And the Nominees Aren't'' [Jan. 29]:...
187 2006-02-12 I can also state without reservation that the taxi drivers I have represented have little confidence in the fairness of the commission's court. This is in large measure because its judges are hired by the commission, and can be fired or have their hours reduced at any time. In short, their paychecks depend on the commission.

The Taxi and Limousine Commission is not alone. The judges at the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, for instance, also work directly for the agency.

Other administrative courts reside within larger agencies. The Environmental Control Board, for example, is part of the Department of Environmental Protection; the Parking Violations Bureau is overseen by the Department of Finance.

Regardless of the agency, the city's administrative judges have an incentive to serve their own interests, and not those of the public, for one glaring reason: they have no job security. They are not civil servants, have no term in office and no contractual rights. With few exceptions, they work on a part-time or per diem basis. When a judge's income depends on the goodwill of the prosecuting agency, it's too much to expect that he or she will hold the balance of justice clear and true.

The ballot measure that passed in November called on the city to impose its first "codes of professional conduct" on administrative judges. It's a good idea. But the measure gave little guidance as to what the code might include. And it said nothing about the way the judges are hired and how they are paid.

Spurred perhaps by the initiative, Mayor Michael Bloomberg has said he intends to appoint an administrative justice coordinator to work with him, the agency heads and the city's chief administrative law judge to review the entire administrative court system. This effort could lead to genuine reform. The chief administrative law judge, as it happens, works for the Office of Administrative Trials and Hearings, a distinct agency. Judges in this court are hired for five-year terms, serve full time and hear cases only from outside their agency.

Because its judges serve for fixed terms and are not part of the city's regulatory apparatus, this court can rightly boast of its status as independent. As the court says on its Web site, the independence "of the decision maker from the prosecuting agency invites a higher level of confidence in the fairness of the adjudicative process."

This is an example that the city's other administrative courts, prompted by the mayor and renewed public concern, would do well to follow.
188 2006-02-12 The day of opening favorites is fading away. Years ago you could depend on a champion's wearing his heart on his sleeve. Long before he became world champion in 1948, Mikhail Botvinnik had an unshakable love for the French Defense. But after Mikhail Tal made mincemeat of that in the first game of their 1960 championship, Botvinnik gave it up in favor of the Caro-Kann. Forever.

That brought in a wave of eclecticism. Everybody plays everything. There are few openings you can trust completely. So one must continually switch from one attack to another, one defense to another.

Computers have had a powerful hand in the transformation. Their speed means that without any foreknowledge, you can become steeped in an opening in a matter of hours, not months. You can get a computer to analyze a new idea lickety-split.

In the Pamplona International Tournament in December, the winner, Ruslan Ponomariov of Ukraine defeated Zviad Izoria of Georgia in Round 2 in a conservative variation of the Caro-Kann Defense. But when Jan Timman of the Netherlands confronted him with that same defense, in Round 5, Ponomariov took no chances, just in case Timman had something special to spring on him. He switched to a quite different approach to the Caro-Kann, and won in a different way.

Black introduces the solid Caro-Kann Defense with 2 d5. The old main line, 3 Nc3 de 4 Ne4 Bf5 5 Ng3 Bg6, yields White superiority in space, yet it is hard to penetrate Black's Maginot line formation. Ponomariov still accomplished this in his game against Izoria. He must be ambidextrous.
189 2006-02-12 Matt Bai (Jan. 29) foresees a future where''businesses will not be forcedto buckle under the soaring costs of what should be an American birthright.''First, however,a public debate is necessary regarding those soaring costs.What limits on heroic c...
190 2006-02-12 To the Editor:     Judith Warner's anguish over the unfairness of stay-at-home mothers' having to do all the errands and deal with laundry and dirty floors makes me want to scream or cry, or both. Not once does she point to poverty as a soul-crush...
191 2006-02-12 The researchers note that the mispricing that comes from T+1 accounting is not the same as the stale pricing that was the basis of the mutual fund trading scandal exposed several years ago by Eliot Spitzer, the attorney general of New York. Mr. Spitzer's office had no comment on the current study. His investigations focused on funds whose securities had not traded for several hours when N.A.V.'s were calculated at 4 p.m. in New York. This is often the case for foreign securities, for example, whose last prices were set as of the closing of the exchanges on which they trade. For exchanges in Asia, that can be 14 hours earlier than the close of trading in New York.

Professor Tufano and his colleagues focused not on stale prices but on stale quantities. Consider the mutual fund prices that appear in newspapers this weekend, ostensibly reflecting funds' assets per share as of the end of trading on Friday. In fact, in almost all cases those share values reflect the application of Friday's closing prices to the number of shares that the funds owned as of Thursday's close; profits or losses of Friday trades are ignored.

How much inaccuracy can T+1 accounting cause? The researchers could reach a definitive answer for just 26 funds, those for which they could get complete trading data over a several-year period. At one fund, they found, the accounting method led it to report that it had lost just 0.73 percent on a particular day when, in fact, it had lost 4.74 percent. At another fund on another day, the reported return was 3.66 percent when the actual return was 5.31 percent.

For buy-and-hold investors, the consequences depend on a number of factors. For example, did the fund execute a given day's trades at prices better or worse than the closing prices of the stocks bought or sold? And how many fund shares were bought or sold on that day?

Consider a fund that sold a stock during the day at a price significantly higher than the closing price. Because of T-1 accounting, the fund calculates its per-share value for that day on the assumption that it still holds the stock, and will value it by using that day's closing prices. As a result, the fund's reported per-share value for that day will be too low. This, in turn, will benefit investors who bought shares of the fund that day.

Could T+1 accounting be exploited to realize unfair profits? That would require knowing when a fund was buying or selling -- information that fund shareholders don't typically have. The researchers noted that a fund insider would have that knowledge, but they said they didn't know whether any insiders had actually taken advantage of it.

For buy-and-hold fund shareholders without insider knowledge, T+1 accounting means that they may sometimes be subsidizing frequent traders. If a fund's N.A.V. is artificially high on a given day, and there were more sellers than buyers, buy-and-hold investors are subsidizing the shareholders who sold. By contrast, on days when a fund's N.A.V. is too low and there were net purchases of the fund, the subsidy goes to those who bought.

The researchers were unable to measure the exact extent of the subsidy because they had access to the necessary data for only a small number of funds. Based on their sample, they estimate that for equity funds alone, T+1 accounting leads to an annual total of $104 million that is unwittingly transferred among various fund shareholders.

But even that is likely to underestimate the true cost of T+1 accounting. Professor Tufano and his colleagues found from interviews with fund traders that they sometimes alter their trading activities because of this accounting practice. To minimize the inadvertent wealth transfer that T+1 can sometimes cause, fund managements occasionally urge traders to execute all trades as near as possible to that day's close. Because those traders might otherwise be able to execute their trades at more favorable prices, T+1 can cause a fund's longer-term performance to suffer.

WHY do funds use T+1 accounting? The researchers speculate that the reason "is a holdout from earlier days, when fund managers could not reliably collect information about their portfolio by 4 p.m. nor transmit this information in a timely manner to fund administrators who calculate N.A.V.'s." Professor Tufano and his co-authors acknowledge that funds would incur a cost in shifting from T+1 to more accurate methods. But at least in many cases, the benefits would outweigh the costs, in their view. In any event, they say, all funds should tell shareholders how they calculate share values.

Until funds change their accounting practices, you may want to avoid funds that do not restrict frequent trading, because you otherwise run the risk of buying or selling at unfavorable prices. And when particular funds alter their methods to remove this potential mispricing, you may want to favor them over funds that don't.

STRATEGIES Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.
192 2006-02-12 EVER since John Cheever, suburban characters have been shot with starter's pistols when they are not wasting their hollow lives at cocktail or key parties. After six years of actually living a life in the suburbs, I am left with a pair of questions about these apparently very bankable assumptions.

Where are all these cocktail and key parties? And why am I never invited?

Hungry for a countervailing thought, I sat in my spiritually corrosive suburban home, emotionally distant to everyone but the bird dog at my feet, thinking about swimming my neighbors' pools one by one, but most of all eagerly awaiting a trip to Yonkers to see "Westchester: The American Suburb," the new Hudson River Museum exhibition.

Made possible in part by the county, it promised to challenge "the prevalent notion of a dull, homogenous, sterile environment" and offer "a more nuanced definition by identifying key issues that place suburbs at the intersection of American values and aspirations."

Forgive me for being a little apprehensive about the idea that our county government could play a role in reimagining a half-century of artistic boilerplate, but with the neighbors' pools shut for the winter I had little else to do. So I went to check out the Yonkers show and peek in on three others addressing the suburbia theme, in Katonah, White Plains and Pleasantville.

I was only halfway disappointed. In seeing the suburbs as worthy of artistic expression and historical treatment that went beyond Levittown, the exhibitions did the notion of accuracy a service. In the end, however, too much of the work and too many of the artifacts seemed to enshrine old thoughts and themes. Cheever movies were shown at the Jacob Burns Film Center; endless loops of old sitcom episodes were played, and still advertisements shown, for perfect, problem-free lives in the suburbs; and we apparently live on McDonald's food.

It's hard to dial up any outrage over what have become such harmlessly predictable themes. The more interesting question is where the artist or writer who actually wants to say something can do so. In part from reading the book that accompanies the Yonkers exhibition, "Westchester: The American Suburb," edited by Roger Panetta, and in part from my rich experience as a failed screenwriter, I am going to give hipster hacks everywhere a few new leads:

About the only people who can stay in cities these days have trust funds; many immigrants head straight to suburbia, and Westchester is about a third nonwhite. Where are the stories? Where are the immigrant tales, set not on the Lower East Side but in Eastchester?
193 2006-02-12 To the Editor:     Re ''The Parent Trap,'' by Judith Warner (Op-Ed, Feb. 8):     I wholeheartedly agree that ''The Feminine Mystique,'' by Betty Friedan, is as relevant today as it was upon its publication in 1963....
194 2006-02-12 MOSCOW, Feb. 11 - Finance ministers from the world's richest countries and Russia said Saturday that "high and volatile" energy prices posed a risk to global economic growth that otherwise appeared solid.

With booming growth in China and India absorbing oil, attention has been focused on the effect of rising demand in pushing up oil prices. The Group of 8, a club of the world's richest capitalist democracies and Russia, meeting Saturday in an icy, mist-covered Moscow, focused instead on the extremely tight supply around the world.

"We're all concerned about the risk of rising energy prices and what they do to global growth," John W. Snow, the United States treasury secretary, said after the meeting at a hotel.

The solution for a world parched for oil, he said, would come in market mechanisms to open oil producing regions to investment and more transparent energy deals, and improving ties between producing and consuming countries.

The ministers called for greater accuracy on the part of oil exporting nations in reporting reserves and production figures, according to a statement by the ministers. They also called for greater investment in exploration and pipelines.
195 2006-02-12 To the Editor:     Re ''The Parent Trap,'' by Judith Warner (Op-Ed, Feb. 8):     Frankly, if a woman is married to a creep who won't pick up his socks and controls all the family decisions and won't help with cooking or cleaning, then she will be ...
196 2006-02-12 SHUNNED across much of eastern Long Island and hardly winning popularity contests farther west and in Connecticut, Broadwater Energy has found a friend in the North Fork Village of Greenport for its plans for a floating natural gas plant in Long I...
197 2006-02-12 Dr. Fisher's lifework has been to demonstrate that romantic attachments, far from being the result of ineffable and unpredictable forces, have a biological and chemical basis. "People believe that depression, anger and fear have chemistry, but they somehow relegate romantic love to the supernatural," she said. "I thought there was a chemistry to love and looked into it because it was the last frontier."

For her latest book, "Why We Love: The Nature and Chemistry of Romantic Love" (Henry Holt, 2004), she recruited volunteers by posting fliers asking, "Have you just fallen madly in love?" She scanned her subjects' brains in a lab and concluded that certain cerebral regions are flooded with chemicals like dopamine and serotonin while in the grip of romantic rapture.

It was this work that caught the attention of Match.com, which needed a way to rekindle its own dating flame. At Match and other online dating services the excitement of members has cooled at a rate approximately equal to the millions who discovered that an e-prospect turned out to be married and 30 pounds heavier than in the picture.

Although 22 million Americans subscribe to online dating services, growth has slowed substantially. From a torrid 77 percent expansion in 2003, growth slid to 19 percent in 2004 and just 9 percent last year, according to JupiterResearch. At Match, Jim Safka, the chief executive, laid off 10 percent of his workforce in 2004 and experienced a drop in profits of 37 percent.

"A whole generation is spending an increasingly significant amount of time in front of their computers," Mr. Safka said. "I thought, 'How could the market be flattening out?' "

Research indicated that services like Match.com were not meeting the needs of many members, Mr. Safka said. "They prefer being introduced to someone than searching in the Wild West of the Internet." This is the formula followed by a number of competing services, including eHarmony.com and PerfectMatch.com, which ask members to fill out lengthy questionnaires and then provide the names of other members who are supposedly compatible. And eHarmony boasts of a scientific approach because it is run by a clinical psychologist.

So Match.com put out a call to Dr. Fisher, who began with a case of the butterflies. "At first I wanted to be anonymous because I was scared that I would lose my reputation," she said. "As a group anthropologists are not too fond of people who work in the business world."

Mr. Safka asked her the right question, "Why do people fall in love?" This is what Dr. Fisher had been studying as a scientist.

Sitting at a dining room table in her apartment on the Upper East Side, surrounded by paintings by her twin sister and a sculpture by her mother of two monkeys swinging in a tree (Dr. Fisher calls them Huxley and Darwin), she explained her theory of the chemistry of romantic love.

"I know that dopamine is associated with creativity, spontaneity and focused attention," she said. "I know that serotonin is associated with calm, popularity and regard for social norms. I knew that I could point to academic sources that proved this chemical type was associated with this chemical system."

Dr. Fisher identified four personality types she said are associated with chemicals in the body. "Scientists know that women gravitate to men who have a different immune system from theirs," she explained. "Both sexes also gravitate to individuals who have a somewhat different dopamine system, serotonin system and estrogen and testosterone system from their own."

She named the four basic types: the Explorer, the Builder, the Negotiator and the Director. Explorers, for example, have an active dopamine system in the brain, Dr. Fisher said. "They tend to take risks and seek novelty," she said. They are good matches with Builders, who are noted for their serotonin system and who tend to be calm, managerial and to follow social norms.

A questionnaire she created for Chemistry.com establishes which of the four personalities a dater has. It includes questions like, "Do you find unpredictable situations exhilarating?" "My hypothesis is that we're unconsciously drawn to chemical personalities that compliment our type, and it has a genetic purpose," Dr. Fisher said. "It means that we're pooling our genes to raise more healthy babies."

AND the reaction of her scientific peers? One, Andreas Bartels, a neuroscientist with the Max Planck Institute in Germany, thinks she may be onto something.

"From a purely theoretical point of view it makes sense," he said. "I'm not a hormone expert, but there is no doubt that everything comes down to our brain's hormones, and research studies show that particular character types are correlated to particular brain receptor types."

But Gary Marcus, a psychologist at New York University, said dividing people into four groups is grossly simplistic. "The Myers-Briggs test says there are four dimensions," he noted, referring to the popular personality-type assessment, "but within the test you multiply this out, so there are actually 16 different personalities types, and doing this is even too crude."

Dr. Bartels said, "To me it seems more business than science, and of course it's attractive to have a scientist for a company's marketing image."

Dr. Fisher is not the only relationship guru that Match.com has partnered with as it attempts to reinvigorate its business. It also hired Dr. Phil McGraw, the self-help author and talk-show host, to help create another online dating site, MindFindBind.com, which also asks users to fill out questionnaires.

Nate Elliott, a technology analyst with JupiterResearch, said the prospects looked good for Chemistry.com, which says that in the short time since it began it has signed up 200,000 members, who pay $49.95 for a basic one-month package and $159.95 for six months.

"Match.com is using Chemistry.com to attract serious daters," Mr. Elliott said. "It's a very attractive segment of the online dating market because these daters are more likely to convert to paid subscriptions."

Charity Smith, 32, an inventory manager in Capistrano Beach, Calif., met a man on the Web site, and they have been dating for two months.

"It seemed less random and arbitrary than just fishing in this huge pool," she said. "I trusted a process where they took my qualities and matched them with someone else's. I didn't think about the science behind it, but it turns out that he and I are matched on the fundamentals."

Michael Butler, an information technology consultant at Accenture in Reston, Va., hasn't found the right match yet, but he says the dates he has gone on through Chemistry.com seem to have more of an immediate connection than those from Match.com.

Of course plenty of happy couples meet in elevators, on the street or on a blind date without the benefit of knowing their chemical personality types. Unconsciously they may just be Explorers blindly searching until they find their Builders. Or, in Dr. Fisher's view, a dopamine-rich nervous system pining for its seratonin heartthrob.
198 2006-02-12 Win looks at Lamont, says, "You got some safe place to stay?"

"Where in Boston? I need to know."

"You have an apartment in Boston?" That's news to him. Why would she have an apartment less than 10 miles from her house?

She doesn't reply, doesn't owe him any further explanations about her life.

He tells Sammy, "Get an officer to meet her when she lands, escort her to her apartment."

He gets off the phone, looks at her, has one of his bad feelings, says, "Words aren't enough, Monique, but I can't tell you how sorry.. . ."

"You're right, words aren't enough." She gives him the same disconcerting stare.

"I'm out of commission for a few days, starting now," he says. "It's the best thing to do."

Her eyes bore into him as she stands in the small white room, the white blanket wrapped around her.

"What do you mean, the best thing? I should think I'm the one who decides what the best thing is for me."

"Maybe this isn't only about you," he says.

"Monique, I need a few days to take care of things."

"Right now, your job is to take care of me," she says. "We have to do damage control, turn this into something positive. You need me."

She stands perfectly still, her eyes staring. Behind them is a darkness seething with hatred and rage.

"I'm the only witness," she states in a flat tone.

"Are you threatening to lie about what happened if I don't do what you say?"

"I don't lie," she replies. "That's one thing people know about me."

"You're threatening me?" He says it again, and now he's a cop, now he isn't the man who saved her life. "Because there are more important witnesses than you. The silent witnesses of forensic science. His body fluids, for example. Unless you're going to say it was consensual. Then I guess his saliva, his seminal fluid are irrelevant. Then I guess I inadvertently interrupted a tryst, some creative sex scenario. Maybe he thought he was protecting you from me, thought I was the intruder, instead of the other way around. That what you're going to say, Monique?"

"I'm pretty good with scripts. You want a few more?"

"No. How dare you. I just saved your goddamn life."

"You sexist pig. Typical man. Think all of us want it."

"Think all of us have some secret fantasy about being.. . ."

"Stop it!" And then he lowers his voice. "I'll help you all I can. I didn't do this to you. You know what happened. He's dead. He got what he deserved. The best revenge if you want to look at it that way. You won, made him pay the ultimate price, if you want to look at it that way. Now let's repair what we can, get things on the right track as best we can. Damage control, as you put it."

Her eyes clear. Thoughts move in them.

"I need a few days," Win says. "I need you to refrain from taking this out on me. If you can't do that, I'll have no choice but to.. . ."

"Facts," she interrupts him. "Fingerprints on the gas can. DNA. The pistol -- is it stolen? My missing keys, probably a coincidence unless they were on his person, in his residence. If so why wasn't he waiting inside my house?"

"Right." She paces, wrapped in her white blanket like an Indian chief. "How did he get to my house? Does he have a car? Did someone else drive him? His family. Who did he know?"

Past tense. Her attacker is dead, and she thinks of him as dead, already. It hasn't even been an hour. Win looks at his watch. He calls Sammy. The chopper's nine minutes out.

The Bell 430 lifts off from Mount Auburn Hospital's rooftop helipad, hovers and noses around, flies off toward the Boston skyline. It's a $7 million bird. Lamont had a lot to do with making sure the Massachusetts State Police has three of them.

At the moment she doesn't take much pride in that, doesn't take much pride in anything, isn't sure what she feels except heavy, stony. From where she sits in back, she can see frantic journalists on the ground, their cameras pointed in her loud, dramatic direction, and she shuts her eyes and tries to ignore her desperate need for a shower and clean clothing, tries to ignore areas of her body that were invaded and violated, tries to ignore nagging fears about sexually transmitted diseases, pregnancy. She tries to concentrate on who and what she is and not on what happened hours earlier.

She takes a deep breath, looks out the window, looks at the rooftops passing below her as the helicopter beats its way toward Massachusetts General Hospital, where the pilots plan to land so some state policeperson can pick her up and transport her to an apartment no one is supposed to know about. She'll probably pay for that mistake, doesn't know what else she could have done.

"You all right back there?" a pilot's voice sounds through her headset.

"We'll be landing in four minutes."

She is sinking. She stares without blinking at the partition that separates the pilots from her, and she feels herself getting heavier, sinking lower. Once, when she was an undergraduate at Harvard, she got drunk, really drunk, and although she never said a word about it to anyone, she knew that at least one of the men she was partying with had sex with her while she was unconscious. When she came to, the sun was up and birds were making noise, and she was alone on a couch, and it was obvious what had happened, but she didn't accuse the suspect she had in mind, certainly didn't consider an examination by a forensic nurse. She remembers how she felt that day -- poisoned, dazed. No, not just dazed, maybe dead. That was it, she recalls as she flies into the downtown skyline. She felt dead.

Death can be liberating. There are things you don't have to care about anymore if you're dead. People can't injure or maim parts of you that are dead.

"Ms. Lamont?" a pilot's voice sounds in her headset again. "When we land, it will take us a minute to shut down, and I want you to sit tight. Someone will open the door for you and get you out."

She imagines Governor Crawley, she imagines his ugly, smirking face when he hears the news. He probably already knows. Of course he does. He'll be sympathetic, heartbroken, and degrade and destroy her in the election.

"Then what?" she says, pushing the mike close to her lip.

"The state police officer on the ground will tell you.. . ." one of the pilots answers.

"You're the state police," she says. "I'm asking you what the plan is. Is the media there?"

They are hovering over the hospital's rooftop helipad now, a blaze orange windsock whipping around in the rotor wash, some state policewoman in a blue uniform bending her head against the wind. The helicopter sets down, goes into flight idle, and Lamont sits, staring out at the unfamiliar, plain-looking female officer, someone low on the food chain who's supposed to get the traumatized and besieged D.A. to safe asylum. A damn escort, a damn bodyguard, a damn woman to remind Lamont that she's a woman who has just been violated by a man and therefore most likely doesn't want to be escorted by a man. She's damaged. A victim. She imagines Crawley, imagines what he'll say, what he's already saying and thinking.

The engines go silent, the blades whining quietly, winding down, then braked to a stop. She takes off her headset and shoulder harness and imagines Crawley's smarmy, pious face looking into the camera and offering compassion from the people of Massachusetts to Monique Lamont. Victim Lamont.

Victim Lamont for governor. Any crime, any time, including mine.

Lamont opens the helicopter door herself before the officer can, climbs out herself before anybody can help her.

"I want you to find Win Garano for me. Right now," Lamont says to the officer. "Tell him to drop everything he's doing and call me right now," she orders.

"Yes, Ma'am. I'm Sergeant Small." The woman in blue offers a handshake, does everything but salute.

"An unfortunate name," Lamont says, walking off toward a door that leads inside the hospital.

"You mean the investigator, right? The one they call Geronimo?" Sergeant Small catches up with her. "If I was fat, it would be a really unfortunate name, Ma'am. I get made fun of enough." She removes her radio from her big black belt, opens the door. "I've got my car downstairs hid out of view. You mind some stairs? Then where can I take you?"

"The Globe," she says.

Jimmy Barber's basement is dusty and mildewy with nothing but one low-watt bare bulb to illuminate what must be a hundred cardboard cartons stacked to the rafters, some labeled, most not.

Sykes has spent the past four hours pushing aside boxes of miscellaneous trash -- ancient tape recorders, scores of tapes, several empty flowerpots, fishing tackle, baseball caps, an old style bulletproof vest, softball trophies, what must be thousands of photographs and letters and magazines, and files, notepads, the handwriting horrible. Trash and more trash. The man was too lazy to organize his memorabilia, so he just threw it into boxes, packed up everything short of fast-food wrappers and what was in his wastepaper basket.

So far, she's been through plenty of cases, ones he probably thought were worth saving: a fugitive who hid in a chimney and got stuck, a deadly assault with a bowling pin, a man struck by lightning while sleeping in an iron bed, an intoxicated woman who stopped in the middle of a road to throw up, forgot to put her car in gear, ran over herself. Cases and more cases that Barber shouldn't have decided were his to carry home when he retired. But she has yet to find KPD893-85, not even in a box that contained a lot of papers, correspondence and cases for 1985. She calls Win's cellphone for the third time, leaves another message, knows he's busy but takes it personally.

She can't help thinking that if she were someone really important, maybe like that Harvard-educated woman D.A. he complains about so much, he'd call back promptly. Sykes went to a tiny Christian college in Bristol, Tenn., flunked out her second year, hated school, didn't see a practical reason in the world why she should learn French or calculus or go to chapel twice a week. She's not the same caliber as Win and that D.A. and all those other people way up North who are part of his life. She's practically old enough to be his mother.

Sykes sits on top of an overturned five-gallon plastic pickle bucket, staring at stacks of cardboard boxes, her throat scratchy, her eyes itchy, her lower back aching. For a moment she is overwhelmed, not merely by the task before her, but by everything, sort of the way she felt when she began the academy and on Day 2, the class was taken on a tour of that notorious University of Tennessee research facility known as the Body Farm, two wooded acres littered with stinking dead bodies in every condition imaginable, donated human remains rotting on the ground or under concrete slabs or in car trunks or in body bags or out of body bags, clothed or naked, anthropologists and entomologists wandering around day after day, taking notes.

Who could do this? I mean, what kind of person does something this disgusting for a living or graduate school or whatever? she asked Win as they crouched down, looking at maggots teeming over a partly skeletonized man whose hair had slid off his skull, looked like road kill about three feet away.

Better get used to it, he said, as if the stench, the insects didn't bother him at all, said it as if she didn't know squat. Dead people aren't nice to work with, and they never say thanks. Maggots are good. Just little babies. See? He picked one up, put it out on his fingertip, where it perched like a grain of rice, a wiggly one. Snitches. Our little friends. Tell us time of death, all kinds of things.

I can hate maggots all I want, Sykes said. And I don't need you treating me as if I just fell off the turnip truck.

She gets up from her pickle bucket, surveys layers of boxes, wondering which ones contain more old cases that walked out of the office with Detective Barber. Selfish, pinheaded idiot. She lifts a box four layers up, grunting under the weight of it, hoping she doesn't pull something. Most of the boxes are open, probably because the old goat couldn't bother retaping them shut after going in and out of them over the years, and she starts rummaging through charge-card statements and phone and utility bills going back to the mid-80's. It's not what she's looking for, but funny thing about bills and receipts. They often reveal more about a person than confessions and eyewitness accounts, and she entertains an idle curiosity as she imagines Aug. 8 20 years ago, the day Vivian Finlay was murdered.

She imagines Detective Barber going to work that day, probably as if it were any other day, and then being called to Mrs. Finlay's expensive riverfront home in Sequoyah Hills. Sykes tries to remember where she was 20 years ago in August. Getting divorced, that's where. Twenty years ago she was a police dispatcher in Nashville, and her husband worked for a recording company, exposing himself to new female talent in a way that turned out to be a little different from what Sykes thought was acceptable.

She pulls out files sloppily labeled by month and sits back down on the pickle bucket with credit-card receipts and utility and telephone bills. The address on the envelopes is the one for the house that belongs to this hellhole of a basement, and as she looks over MasterCard charges, she begins to suspect Barber lived alone back then, most charges made at places like Home Depot, Wal-Mart, a liquor store, a sports bar. She notes that throughout the first half of 1985, he made very few long-distance calls, in some months no more than two or three. Then in August, that abruptly changed.

She shines the flashlight on a phone bill and recalls that 20 years ago cellphones were these big cumbersome contraptions that looked likeGeiger counters. Nobody used them. Cops didn't. When they were away from their desks and needed to make calls, they asked the dispatcher to do it and relay the information over the radio. If the information the detective needed was confidential or involved, he returned to headquarters, and if he was on the road, he charged the calls to the department and then had to fill out forms for reimbursement.

What cops didn't do was make case-related calls from their homes or charge them to their home numbers, but beginning the evening of Aug. 8, when Mrs. Finlay was already dead and in the morgue refrigerator, Barber started making calls from his home phone, seven of them between 5 p.m. and midnight.

Next week: Sykes finds some curious evidence in the Finlay case.
199 2006-02-12 To the Editor:     Re ''The Broadwater Battle'' (editorial), ''Greener Pastures,'' by Steve Israel (Op-Ed), and ''Application Is Filed for Floating Gas Plant'' (In Brief, all Feb. 5):...
200 2006-02-12 The first-round Davis Cup meeting between the United States and Romania this weekend has made the La Jolla Beach and Tennis Club look like a sick bay.      On Friday, the American Andy Roddick required medical assistance for cramping and a stomach...
201 2006-02-12 BEHIND every successful work of art, there are often several dozen failures, sometime years of trial and error. This is one reason why artists, when they hit upon a winning formula, stick to it. And it is also why artists, when they look to change...
202 2006-02-12 To the Editor:     ''Yes, Towns Can Seize Land, but Aren't There Limits?'' quoted me accurately as saying that I moved to Ossining 43 years ago because I wanted my kids to grow up in the real world. However, you might have added my next sentence, ...
203 2006-02-12 Curry, 23, who signed a six-year, $56 million deal in October, has not been able to help make up for Marbury's absence. During the Knicks' losing streak, he has just six blocks, five of them in a loss at Toronto on Feb. 3. He is averaging 11. 5 points and 5 rebounds during the eight-game streak. Curry scored only 5 points against Philadelphia's Samuel Dalembert on Jan. 28, and Brown took that occasion to criticize Curry, wishing he could be more like Dalembert.

On Friday night, Curry scored 11 points against the Hornets' P. J. Brown, who is not a true center. Brown said Saturday that Curry was "so afraid to foul on the offensive end."

Brown added: "I think he thinks he's trying and I can respect that, but I just think he can't get down. He's got to go out every single day and push himself. I don't want to raise the bar where he can't achieve what you ask him to do. But I think I can set pretty high standards for him. I think he has that much to give. I think he wants to. And I let him know that."

When asked if Curry recognized he was the franchise player, Brown said: "I don't want to put that on him because right away people will say, 'Oh, we're losing games because,' " he said, trailing off. "I'm the coach. So it's on me."

Penny Hardaway, who has been in Houston since Jan. 1 rehabilitating his legs, appeared at the Knicks' practice Saturday with his physical therapist. The Knicks are shopping Hardaway and his $15.7 million contract, which expires after this season. Portland would be interested in him to cut its payroll, but wants to include Ruben Patterson in a deal with Theo Ratliff. Hardaway said that Isiah Thomas had told him there was trade talk right now, but "nothing solid." Hardaway has weakness in his left leg and tendinitis in his right knee. He will begin running next week and said he believed he could return from his injuries. He also said he was shocked when the Knicks traded Antonio Davis to Toronto for Jalen Rose, because "I was always told I'd be the one going for Jalen."
204 2006-02-12 The man in the wheelchair sprang to his feet. A miracle?

"What you drop?" he demanded. "I get it for you. No problem."

I turned my back. I couldn't let them see my despair. I waited for the doors to close. But the doors did not close.

"I go down there for you?" the man said. One of his eyes was gray and cloudy.

"It's all right," I said. "I can get it."

"I go for you!"

The train was still there. It was being held in the station. I turned to face the people in the car.

"I can see it," one of the men on the train said. "It's safe."

I went over and peered down through the crack. There it was on the black, grimy floor.

"If you go and tell them, they'll get it for you," someone else said. It was a sympathetic crowd.

The guy in the wheelchair had returned to his wheelchair. His body language suggested that it was a seller's market. I would come around. Or not. It was all the same to him. I took out my wallet, hoping to see a 10. Five would seem too cheap, and 20 would be profligate. But no. I could not pay a man in a wheelchair to do my dirty work, even if his actual need for the wheelchair was now dubious.

I waited until the train and the two that followed it were finally gone. The iPod lay there on the floor of the tracks. The tunnel was dark and quiet. My knees were a little loose, like those of someone about to jump off a diving board.

New York is a vertical town. The emphasis is on things that rise. But the New Yorker's panic-stricken need for accomplishment -- the need to go up -- is matched by a kind of vertigo that comes with being constantly aware of the distance below.

I took a breath and hopped down. I grabbed the iPod, its whiteness streaked with dirty water. I stood there a moment rubbing it dry, petting it, really, as if it were a small animal that had gotten itself into trouble. Then I dropped it into my pocket, planted my hands on the filthy platform, and hoisted myself up.

I didn't make it. I bonked my shin, and fell back down. On the next try, no problem. But in the few seconds between the two tries, I felt a pang of awareness. I was on the tracks. I'd stared down at the tracks all my life. It had always been rats, the third rail and garbage that provided that space with its faint air of horror, but it turns out that the most powerful feeling while I was down there was simply being lower, almost beneath, everyone else. I looked up and saw a lot of knees. I wanted only to rise.

Back on the platform I brushed myself off. An older woman, well dressed, looked at me as though I were the Loch Ness monster.

"You get it?" yelled the man in the wheelchair, still shaking his change cup.

"Yes!" I yelled back. And I thanked him profusely for some reason and pushed $10 into his cup. Perhaps for giving me courage, even if it arrived via shame.

The iPod, though now scuffed, worked fine. I washed my hands several times before I sat down to lunch half an hour later. I kept rinsing and soaping and rinsing and soaping long after my hands seemed perfectly clean.

The whole episode should have been a fleeting moment, something barely remembered, but that evening, my fiancée said, "What happened to your leg?"

I LOOKED at my shin. There was a small cut, no more than a tiny red line, and a bump.

I explained about the iPod. She was amused as I described it skidding across the platform, and the fellow in the wheelchair jumping up to help. Then her face darkened a little. There were three months to the wedding.

"You didn't go down there, did you?"

"I couldn't bring myself to hire the guy in the wheelchair," I said.

"You went down on the tracks?"

When I said I had, she got worked up. It really bothered her.

"You're not alone anymore!" she said. She asked me to promise that I would not jump down onto the subway tracks in the future. I promised. She shook her head.

"I ought to put some of your sperm in the freezer," she said.

NEW YORK OBSERVED Thomas Beller's most recent books are "How to Be a Man," a collection of essays, and "The Sleep-Over Artist," a novel. He is the editor of Open City magazine and books and Mrbellersneighborhood.com.
205 2006-02-12 In Somers, residents unanimously passed an $850,000 appropriation in December to help buy a 286-acre parcel known as Whitaker Woods. Woodstock voters on Wednesday approved in a referendum for the town to contribute up to $275,000 to maintain the 94-acre Eddy farm as a working farm and prevent it from being developed.

In Tolland, voters have approved more than $3 million in open-space acquisition bonds since 2000, and the town has bought more than 500 acres for preservation. Suffield's master plan has set a goal of preserving half the town's land as open space. In Willington, the town in November received a $73,125 state grant to buy 28 acres for open-space preservation.

Elizabeth Brothers, assistant director of the Land Acquisition and Management Division of the D.E.P., said municipalities were increasingly interested in preservation. "We most definitely are seeing an increased interest," she said. "They are asking about the grant program. We hear over and over again, 'We have to save this property before it's developed.' "

The Legislature in 1998 set a goal of preserving 21 percent, or about 673,000 acres, of Connecticut's 3.2 million acres by 2023, Ms. Brothers said, and is at about 70 percent of its goal. She said about half the land would be owned by the state, and the rest by municipalities, land trusts and water utilities.

The most recent round of open-space grants, announced in November, totaled $6.8 million for about 2,000 acres in 24 municipalities.

Ms. Brothers said the governor had proposed that the state earmark $13 million for two open- space preservation grant programs in fiscal 2006 and another $10 million in fiscal 2007. In addition, a new law took effect last October that provides money for preservation by setting aside part of the fees property owners pay to record land documents at town halls. The money is going to the D.E.P's open-space grant program, she said.

Town officials said such state support was essential because towns often combined their resources with private land trusts and state and federal agencies to cement land acquisition deals.

"Working with partners is the best way to make things happen," said Ms. Wetherell of Mansfield. "There are things that a land trust can do that a town can't."

In Somers, for example, the town joined with the Northern Connecticut Land Trust to buy the $1.2 million Whitaker Woods parcel and will recoup most of its expenditures through a $450,000 state grant and the sale of about five acres of the site for development, said David Pinney, the first selectman of Somers.

"Because we were successful in getting the state open-space grant, we were able to go forward," he said.

Culver Modisette, president of the Northern Connecticut Land Trust, said the town had asked the trust to raise half the cost of the property, which it did in about a year. Ultimately, the trust will be deeded the entire parcel, which is adjacent to the Shenipsit State Forest and also helps protect an aquifer, he said.

"To my knowledge, this was the first time we had this type of municipal involvement," Mr. Modisette said.

There was a proposal about 10 years ago to subdivide the property into about 100 housing lots, a proposal that sparked the efforts to preserve the land, Mr. Pinney said.

In Woodstock, it has also been a cooperative effort to save the Eddy farm. Town officials have worked with the national nonprofit Trust for Public Land and received state and federal grants totaling $650,000 to help preserve the farm. There is also a private fund-raising campaign to raise money, said Dawn Adiletta, chairman of the town's Open Space Land Acquisition Committee.

"Starting in the late 90's, the town became more concerned about losing its farmland," she said.

The town has already preserved six farms, and the Eddy farm would be the seventh.

When town officials heard the farm would likely be put up for sale, they were concerned about the potential for development at the site, said Melissa Spear, a project manager for the Trust for Public Land. The trust has a contract with the farm's owners, Timothy and Marianne Eddy, to buy the $1.65 million property and should close on it next month, she said. The trust will then look for someone to farm the property.

In Wednesday's referendum, residents voted 1,237 to 113 to provide $275,000, an amount the town already has set aside in a municipal open-space and farmland-preservation fund, Ms. Adiletta said.

In Mansfield, the town has been receiving state open-space grants since the 1970's, said Gregory Padick, the town planner.

"Then, we realized we had to do more," he said.

Since voters approved $1 million for open space in 1993, and another $1 million in 2000, the town has acquired 650 acres of land, said Jennifer Kaufman, the town's parks coordinator.

In November 2005, voters rejected a referendum to provide more money for open space, but officials attributed the vote to low voter turnout.

Mr. Padick said that residents were concerned about maintaining the town's rural beauty and preventing potential groundwater pollution caused by development. Most residents have private wells for drinking water.

"Mansfield is very concerned about losing its rural character," he said. "There's also a dedication by residents and officials to protecting the groundwater. It takes the will of taxpayers to make the commitment to preserve land."
206 2006-02-12 WEINSTOCK--Harold . The New York Times records with deep sorrow the passing of Harold Weinstock, associated with The Times since December, 1967 until retiring in June, 1980....
207 2006-02-12 So, some ask, why expect that a small change, like replacing whole milk with skim, would affect children's weights?

"I don't want to say there is no such remedy that will ever work," said Dr. Jeffrey Friedman, an obesity researcher at Rockefeller University. "But the burden should be on those who want to impose them to show they work. To my knowledge, no one has ever done this."

It's not that no one has tried. In the 1990's, the National Institutes of Health sponsored two large, rigorous studies asking whether weight gain in children could be prevented by doing everything that obesity fighters say should be done in schools -- greatly expand physical education, make cafeteria meals more nutritious and less fattening, teach students about proper nutrition and the need to exercise, and involve the parents. One study, an eight-year, $20 million project sponsored by the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, followed 1,704 third graders in 41 elementary schools in the Southwest, where students were mostly Native Americans, a group that is at high risk for obesity. The schools were randomly divided into two groups, one subject to intensive intervention, the other left alone. Researchers determined, beginning at grade five, if the children in the intervention schools were thinner than those in the schools that served as a control group.

They were not. The students could, however, recite chapter and verse on the importance of activity and proper nutrition. They also ate less fat, going from 34 percent to 27 percent fat in their total diet. Alas, said the study's principal investigator, Benjamin Caballero, director of the Center for Human Nutrition at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, "it was not enough to change body weight."

The paper appeared in The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition in 2003 to no acclaim, Dr. Caballero said. No press release, no media coverage, no invitations to speak about the results at scientific meetings. On the journal's Web page, a search of articles that refer to the study comes up empty. It has not been cited anywhere.

The second study, of 5,106 children in 96 schools in California, Louisiana, Minnesota and Texas, had a similar design and the same results: all that help made no difference in the children's weights.

The principal investigators of both studies think they know the problem. In interviews, both Dr. Caballero and Philip R. Nader, who directed the study of 96 schools and is an emeritus research professor at the University of California at San Diego, came to the same conclusion: the intervention was not enough. It is necessary to change the children's total experience, not just what happens at school. "Not only the school, but the family, the community, the grocery store," Dr. Caballero said.

Others researchers are not so sure.

No one knows why children got fatter, says Dr. Rudolph Leibel, an obesity researcher at Columbia University. It is clear, of course, that they must be eating more or exercising less, but the difference may be tiny -- a few dozen extra calories a day will, over the years, pile on pounds and a change like that is "unmeasurable," Dr. Leibel said. And no one has any good evidence that proposed solutions will make any difference.

He understands the concern. "There is a sense of fear and desperation and concern that spills over into calls for various interventions that look sensible but may not be," he said. And, he added, those interventions should not be imposed without first showing they have an effect.

Dr. Leibel and other skeptics say they are not surprised that, even with two studies showing the ineffectiveness of intervention in schools, communities continue to mandate those same changes. Scientists and the public, said David Freedman, a statistician at the University of California at Berkeley, "have this wonderful capacity for ignoring negative evidence."

Dr. Freedman, who has written books on the science and history of clinical trials, says he is reminded of a story about a pioneer in the medical application of statistics, Pierre-Charles-Alexandre Louis.

In the 1830's, Dr. Louis studied the effect of bloodletting, or bleeding -- the standard treatment of the time -- on pneumonia.

"The data showed that bleeding didn't work," Dr. Freedman said. But, he said, "Dr. Louis rejected this as terrifying and absurd."

So, he made a recommendation: bleed earlier and bleed harder.
208 2006-02-12 Dr. Michael Bell, associate director for infection control at the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, has done the bump a few times already. When Ebola breaks out in Africa, he's usually on the team sent to fight it.

"I'll arrive on the tarmac and stick out a hand to say hello," Dr. Bell said, "and someone from the W.H.O. team will say: 'No, no, no, we don't do that. We do the elbow bump now.' "

In truth, he said, they do it mostly to set a good example. To stop an Ebola outbreak, visiting doctors must persuade villagers in Angola or the Congo basin to refrain from washing dead bodies and using their bare hands when nursing family members dying of hemorrhagic bleeding.

Those distancing measures would be easy to enforce in a pandemic in New York City. But other likely steps will strike at things New Yorkers are loath to give up. Dr. Isaac Weisfuse, the deputy city health commissioner in charge of avian flu preparation, said his first move would probably be to ban Major League Baseball games, Broadway shows, movies, parades and other large gatherings.

Closing schools or shutting the subways might be even more effective, because children are much more efficient than adults at spreading flu, and subways are enclosed spaces where sneezes linger in the air -- but doing that would be harder to pull off, Dr. Weisfuse said. "People talk about 'flu days' like snow days," he said, "and if it was just days or a week, that would be simple. But if it's weeks or months, that becomes another matter." Without mass transit, no one gets to work and the economy collapses, he pointed out, and many poor children depend on the free breakfasts and lunches they get at school.

An alternative is to limit people to necessary travel and to have them wear masks -- a tricky thing.

Getting people to don masks in Asia is relatively simple, Dr. Bell said. Particularly in Japan, it is considered polite for anyone going to work with a cold to wear one. And in Asian cities full of soot and diesel exhaust, people often wear gauze masks on the street.

But in the United States, "we don't have a culture of courtesy mask use," he said, and people may feel foolish wearing them.

The government of Taiwan faced that problem three years ago during the SARS epidemic. It ordered everyone who had a cough or fever, or who cared for a family member or patients who did, to wear a mask if they ventured outdoors. The head of Taiwan's version of the Centers for Disease Control correctly noted that studies showed that masks do much more good if the sick wear them, keeping sneeze droplets in, than if the healthy do.

But masks were rare on the streets, and the mayor of Taipei, the capital city, decided to ignore the data and pay more attention to the psychology. The sick and exposed would never wear masks, he reasoned, if it marked them as disease carriers. So he simply issued a mayoral order: no one without a mask could ride the subway. The next day, everyone in Taipei was wearing them. Within a week, they had become a fashion item, printed with logos like the Nike swoosh, the Burberry plaid and the Paul Frank monkey.

Pictures of the 1918 flu epidemic include much evidence of that sort of mass psychology. In a photograph of ranks of Seattle police officers, all are wearing masks; in one of 45 Philadelphia gravediggers digging trenches for the dead, none wear them. In a photograph of dozens of beds in a military field hospital, almost all of the patients, doctors and nurses seem to have masks -- but most in the foreground have pulled them down for the photographers. People act as the group acts.

When a disease seems far away, as avian flu still does, notions like mask fashion and elbow bumping sound like jokes. But when people start dying, panic ensues, and nothing seems too far-fetched to try. In the 1918 epidemic, Prescott, Ariz., outlawed handshaking. Some small towns tried to close themselves off, barricading their streets against outsiders and telling any citizen who left not to plan on coming back. In factories, common drinking cups gave way to a new invention: the paper cup.

Under pressure, people don't adopt only sensible precautions, they overreact, said Dr. Michael T. Osterholm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota. During the anthrax scare of 2001, he said, nervous citizens submitted 600,000 specimens of white powder to public laboratories. The samples included brownies with powdered sugar. Dr. Osterholm said he feared that public reactions would be out of sync with any epidemic; that people would get scared too early, then say the fear was overblown and dismiss it. Then, if a pandemic lasts for weeks, fatigue will set in. "We tend to be a just-in-time, crisis-oriented population," he said.

It is all in the timing, said Dr. Harvey V. Fineberg, president of the Institute of Medicine, the medical arm of the National Academy of Sciences. "In the middle of a major pandemic, with people dying, we're likely to see people hungry for clear instructions," he said. "What would backfire would be for you to say, 'Start bumping elbows now.' People would look at you as if you were from Mars."
209 2006-02-12 FEW kitchen cupboards are stocked with emulsifiers like polysorbate 60 or soy lecithin, to say nothing of red dye No. 40. As a result, creating a precise facsimile of a Hostess Twinkie, the snack cake, is more or less impossible, as these multisyllabic and numbered ingredients are all vital to the product's look and taste. But with the aid of the Twinkies Brand Bake Set, a budding chef can at least approximate the treat's tubular shape, spongy texture and cream-filled center.

"We're not saying you can produce a Twinkie," said Bruce Aronson, president of A. Aronson Inc., the kitchenware maker in New York that created the bake set. "We call what you can produce a Twinkie-shaped mini-cake."

The kit's centerpiece is a no-stick pan with eight cylindrical cavities; batter is poured inside and baked. When the cakes are done, a syringe-like injector is used to flood their middles with sugary filling. The imitation Twinkie can then be transported to work or school in the set's plastic carrying case, which is fashioned to resemble the cowboy-hat-wearing mascot, Twinkie the Kid.

A. Aronson began developing the bake set last spring, after getting a license to make Twinkie-related products from the Interstate Bakeries Corporation, the Kansas City, Mo., company that owns the Hostess brand. The pan was easy enough to design: once the cake's dimensions were established, samples made of rolled, coated steel were stamped out. Those were sent to an independent laboratory, which verified the safety of the pan's nonstick coating.

A much trickier task was perfecting the cream injector. Standard confectionary injectors, Mr. Aronson said, did not have the power to force the filling into each cake's dense interior. The solution was to increase the injector's size, so that it was slightly bigger than the cake itself.
210 2006-02-13 For some Californians, it feels like every other neighbor is a real estate agent. They wouldn't be too far off. The state had 449,107 agents as of last June. (There are at least 20,000 more by now.) That means there is one agent for about every 25...
211 2006-02-13 In advance of what could be harsh Congressional questioning this week, Yahoo plans to issue a statement today outlining its belief in openness and freedom of speech -- even when it is forced to violate those beliefs by laws in China.

Yahoo and three other technology companies are to testify Wednesday before a House human rights subcommittee about their business dealings in China.

"We are deeply concerned by efforts of governments to restrict and control open access to information and communication," an advance copy of the statement said. "We also firmly believe the continued presence and engagement of companies like Yahoo is a powerful force in promoting openness and reform."

In addition to pledging to work with industry, government and other groups to develop policies for doing business in restrictive countries, Yahoo, which censors the results on the Chinese version of its search engine to meet government demands, also said it would strive to make those restrictions apparent to users.

Yahoo's general counsel, Michael Callahan, will join executives from Google, Microsoft and Cisco before the House subcommittee on Africa, Global Human Rights and International Operations on Wednesday.

All four companies have come under fire for their dealings in China -- from agreeing to censor their search or blogging tools to providing hardware that makes government surveillance of Internet users easier.
212 2006-02-13 The following equity and convertible debt offerings are expected this week:    Acquicor Technology, an initial public offering of 17 million units. Each unit consists of one share of common and two redeemable warrants. Wedbush Morgan and ThinkEqui...
213 2006-02-13 That playlist includes generous selections of hip-hop, doo-wop, 1970's funk, R&B, gospel, the blues and even a hilarious snippet of "Dreamgirls," all accompanied by Mr. Power's inventively rhymed vernacular verse, more commonly known, of course, as rap. The players are a gifted cast of a dozen singers and dancers in assorted sizes, shapes and skin colors who infuse the production with heat-generating energy even during the lulls. (The choreography is by Bill T. Jones, happily cutting loose with street moves to keep the stage in fluid motion.)

None of those lulls occur when Edwin Lee Gibson's Oedipus is gracing the stage. Strutting and sliding in flashy pimp regalia across the raised platform that dominates Richard Hoover's set, Mr. Gibson's Oedipus is the show's presiding spirit: smooth of tongue, limber of leg and always in your face. (Not blind, but never mind.)

As classics scholars will be noting with suspicion, Oedipus is not an actual presence in "Seven Against Thebes," which revisits the tense moments when his two sons, Eteocles, the Theban king, and Polynices, who is besieging the city's seven gates with seven bands of warriors, battle for control of Thebes as the citizens bemoan their fate inside. (Much to the king's annoyance, that: his windy admonitions to the chorus can be boiled down to the phrase "shut up!")

Mr. Gibson and Mr. Power briskly stride over any lit-crit quibbles. Preening over the mess his curse has made, his slick moves suggesting a cross between Sylvester and James Brown, Mr. Gibson's Oedipus grabs ample stage time from Aeschylus to retell his sorry story in one of the production's liveliest rap soliloquies. He also invades the psyches of his truce-making sons, who had agreed to end the family trouble by living in peace and ruling Thebes in turn.

Polynices (often spelled Polyneices), played as a sweet soul with sinewy sex appeal by Jamyl Dobson, has abandoned Thebes for a nature frolic and some yogic maneuvers with his pal Tydeus (a witty, gangly Flaco Navaja). Back in Thebes, Benton Greene's feisty Eteocles takes a liking to ruling over a docile populace, with his nimble white henchman, Right Hand (an amusingly hyperactive Tom Nelis), jumping out of his pinstripes to do his bidding. Dad puts brothers back on a collision course by playing up their rivalry, and in the second act, which hews more closely to the original, Polynices assembles a band of brothers (and sisters) to invade the city, resulting in hella bloodshed, as someone in "The Seven" might put it.

Mr. Power's unflagging verbal inspiration keeps the show buoyant -- rhymes that feature gag references to Ali G and "The X-Files," Phat Farm and the Acropolis just keep coming. But when things get mildly serious in the second act, the conceit (O.K., the gimmick) loses some of its savor. Unlike "The Gospel at Colonus," Lee Breuer's much-revived transcription of a Sophocles tragedy as a Pentecostal church service, Mr. Power and Ms. Bonney's production is primarily and most successfully a lampoon of its ur-text; it doesn't attempt to recreate the cathartic majesty of tragedy, but rather to pull it off its pedestal and give it the "yo mama" treatment by putting it in the incongruous context of today's urban America.

When it makes a few perfunctory attempts at political statement and more ritualistic staging in the second act, with the chorus accusing Eteocles of "tryin' to hold back and hide classified information," or a host of seers predicting doom, the engine begins to idle.

At which point you may wonder why Mr. Power, possessed of a fine facility for dramatizing a story in an idiom all but unknown in today's musical theater, wanted to borrow the ponderous gravitas of Greek tragedy -- or at least to upend it -- to display his talents. Aeschylus has plenty of street cred already. He was doing fine without Mr. Power. And impressive as "The Seven" is, it will be more interesting to see just what Mr. Power can do without Aeschylus.

Text and composition by Will Power; direction and development, Jo Bonney; choreographer, Bill T. Jones; sets, Richard Hoover; costumes by Emilio Sosa; lighting by David Weiner; sound by Darron L. West; image design, Kelly Bray, Reese Hicks, Richard Hoover, Frank Luna and Robin Silvestri; music production and additional composition, Justin Ellington; additional composition, Will Hammond; music direction and vocal arrangement, Daryl Waters; production stage management, Wendy Ouellette; assistant stage management, Missy Guisinger and Sharika Niles. Presented by New York Theater Workshop, James C. Nicola, artistic director; Lynn Moffat, managing director. At 79 East Fourth Street, East Village; (212) 239-6200. Through March 12. Running time: 1 hour 50 minutes.

WITH: Uzo Aduba (Second Woman/Amphiarus), Shawtane Monroe Bowen (Third Man/Hippomedon), Jamyl Dobson (Polynices), Amber Efé (D.J.), Edwin Lee Gibson (Oedipus/Laius), Benton Greene (Eteocles), Manuel Herrera (First Man/Eteoclus), Flaco Navaja (Tydeus), Tom Nelis (Right Hand), Postell Pringle (Second Man/Capaneous), Pearl Sun (First Woman/Parthenopaeus) and Charles Turner (Aeschylus),
214 2006-02-13 MEHLMAN - Emily. Of Brookline, MA, February 11, 2006. Beloved wife of Rabbi Bernard Mehlman. Devoted mother of Jonathan and his wife Marla, David and his wife Marcy, all of New York. Dear grandmother of Sarah, Jillian, Aliza and Ari. Loving sister...
215 2006-02-13 Photos of dogs preparing for Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show in New York City...
216 2006-02-13 But Mr. Jaafari's surprise victory illustrated the growing political power of Mr. Sadr, who led two bloody uprisings against the American occupation and the interim government in 2004 and has made it clear that he favors a prompt American withdrawal from Iraq.

In recent visits to Iran and Syria, Mr. Sadr has expressed solidarity with the leaders of those countries and angry opposition to American policy toward them. Mr. Sadr also commands the Mahdi Army, a broad-based militia that has been largely quiet since 2004 but is still armed and is said to be behind some recent deadly attacks on British troops in Basra.

Until the weekend, Shiite leaders had said they expected the prime minister's job to go to Adel Abdul Mahdi, an economist and a member of the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq, or Sciri. Mr. Mahdi has a reputation for decisiveness and consensus-building, and he is more popular with Kurdish and Sunni Arab leaders than Mr. Jaafari is. But Mr. Jaafari refused to withdraw, and after efforts to achieve consensus broke down in rancor, the alliance's leaders agreed to decide the issue with a vote.

Afterward, Shiite leaders made a show of unity at a news conference, with Mr. Mahdi congratulating and praising his rival on a podium surrounded by banners bearing Shiite religious slogans. "It's not important who won; the important thing is that the United Iraqi Alliance stays unified," Mr. Jaafari said.

A number of Iraqi leaders outside the Shiite alliance expressed surprise and concern about the selection of Mr. Jaafari and about what appeared to be the influence exercised by Mr. Sadr's followers.

"I was surprised and rather disappointed," said Adnan Pachachi, a former foreign minister and member of the secular alliance led by the former interim prime minister, Ayad Allawi, that has 25 seats in the 275-member Parliament. "If he follows what the Sadrists want, we will not be able to have a government of national unity."

In Washington, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice rejected the suggestion that Mr. Sadr had played a important role in the choice of prime minister. Asked about Mr. Sadr's influence, she said on the ABC News program "This Week" that "Iraq is a complex place with a lot of voices" and "there are many forces behind the apparent election of -- or selection of Jaafari."

Mr. Jaafari's government has been especially unpopular with Sunni Arabs, who have accused the Interior Ministry of backing death squads that have rounded up and murdered hundreds of Sunnis in Baghdad and elsewhere in recent months. Many Sunnis have also accused Shiite militias, including Mr. Sadr's Mahdi Army, of playing roles in the killings.

"Jaafari failed to provide security and protect Iraqis," said Mahmoud al-Mashadani, a Sunni Arab and a leader of the Iraqi Accordance Front, which has the third-largest bloc in Parliament, with 44 seats.

Talks on forming a cabinet are still in the earliest stages, and Parliament has yet to meet. But signs of tension were already apparent on Sunday, as the president, Jalal Talabani, a Kurd who has often sparred with Mr. Jaafari, angrily criticized Shiite leaders for trying to exclude Mr. Allawi's group, the Iraqi National List, from the new government.

"We will never under any circumstances allow the Iraqi National List to be excluded from the next government," Mr. Talabani said, speaking at a news conference. "Those who reject the Iraqi National List should understand that they are rejecting the Kurdish alliance as well. I say it loud and clear."

Some Shiite leaders had said last month that they intended to form a government in which they would share power with the main Kurdish and Sunni groups, relegating Mr. Allawi's secularists and some smaller parties to the opposition. (Under the Constitution, any group that controls two-thirds of the seats in Parliament can form a government.) But the mostly secular Kurds, who have the second-largest bloc with 53 seats, appear to be vetoing that option.

Sunni Arab leaders also insist on a broader coalition. In the past week, the Iraqi Accordance front announced that it was teaming up with Mr. Allawi's group and a smaller Sunni Arab party to form a single negotiating bloc, the Joint Council for Patriotic Work, with 80 seats.

The task of accommodating all these groups within a single government will now fall in large measure to Mr. Jaafari. A white-haired doctor with a quiet, apologetic manner, Mr. Jaafari, 59, fled Iraq in 1980 and spent years living in Iran, where he established close ties with Iranian leaders, like many other members of his Dawa Party.

Since Mr. Jaafari became prime minister last year, suicide bombings and assassinations have surged and oil production and exports have plummeted. Some Iraqi leaders, including fellow Shiites, have said he was not decisive enough for the job. Others said he allowed Shiite militias to infiltrate Iraq's police forces and the military, leading to a rash of sectarian killings in Sunni neighborhoods that have harmed efforts to draw Iraq's Sunni insurgents into the political process.

The expanded power of Mr. Sadr could further complicate the process. Last fall, in an effort to keep Mr. Sadr from forming his own party, leaders of the United Iraqi Alliance offered his followers 30 seats -- the same number as Sciri, the largest Shiite party. A small Sadrist party also won two seats in the December elections, and in recent days they have joined the alliance, making Mr. Sadr's faction the largest.

It is unclear how much control Mr. Sadr exercises over his followers in Parliament. During the past year he has often suggested that he is a clerical figure above the fray of politics. He has been similarly vague about his ties to the Mahdi Army, which unofficially polices parts of Baghdad but is regularly accused of carrying out assassinations and bombings.

Nassir Saadi, one of Mr. Sadr's followers in Parliament, said Sunday that he and other members of the group would be free to vote their consciences. But he said all of the members met regularly with a three-man committee that was in constant touch with Mr. Sadr. Mr. Aaraji saidhe expected the Sadr bloc to be given control of four or five ministries when a government was formed.

On some issues, Mr. Sadr's views are at odds with those of fellow Shiites and could provide a bridge to other elements within Parliament. Most Shiite representatives, for example, favor the creation of semiautonomous regions within Iraq, a proposal that has caused tremendous anger among Sunni Arab leaders. Mr. Sadr has said he believes that it would be premature to create such regions now. His strong opposition to the American presence is also echoed by many Sunni figures.

Mr. Jaafari's election came as insurgent violence left at least a dozen people dead across Iraq on Sunday. In southern Baghdad, a suicide bomber wearing an explosive belt blew himself up near a mosque, killing three police commandos and a woman and wounding four people, Interior Ministry officials said.

Gunmen opened fire on a truck near a food market in the Shiite Shola district, killing two people inside, the officials said. Elsewhere in the city, a roadside bomb exploded near a passing Iraqi police convoy, killing an adult civilian and a child and wounding three others.

At least three more bombs exploded in other areas of Baghdad, including two near a downtown bakery that wounded a dozen people.

Interior Ministry officials said two unidentified bodies, blindfolded and handcuffed, were found in western Baghdad with bullets in their heads.
217 2006-02-13 Merrill Lynch Said to Be Close to Selling Asset Management Unit to BlackRock  Merrill Lynch is nearing a deal to sell its asset management division to BlackRock, a fast-growing fund manager, in exchange for a large stake in the company, according ...
218 2006-02-13 Kelly, Wyo. - THE 130th Westminster Dog Show comes to New York today, with its thousands of contestants, ranging in size from two-pound Chihuahuas to 120-pound Great Danes. As the highly groomed dogs prance down the runways of Madison Square Garden -- the floor-length coats of the Afghan hounds swaying, the teased coiffures of the poodles bouncing -- it's hard not to think of a fashion show.

In the case of dog shows, a given breed's parent club sets the standard for the breed's look or style. These standards describe an ideal specimen and are supposed to relate a dog's form to the original function it performed. But given that dogs are the most plastic of species, and people are inventive, some remarkable varieties of dogs have been created to serve our notions of beauty, novelty, companionship and service.

Unfortunately, in some breeds, form has trumped function. The Pekingese and the bulldog, whose flattened faces make breathing difficult, are two examples. Such design flaws -- often perpetuated by breeders trying to produce a dog with a unique look -- have enduring consequences for individual dogs, their progeny and the people who love them.

Of the 180 breeds listed on one popular Web site for choosing purebred puppies, 42 percent have chronic health problems: skin diseases, stomach disorders, a high incidence of cancers, the inability to bear young without Caesareans, shortened life spans. The list is as disturbing as it is long, and poses a question: dazzled by the uniqueness of many of the breeds we've created, have we -- the dog-owning public -- turned a blind eye to the development of a host of dysfunctional animals?

Fifteen years ago, I was just such a starry-eyed dog buyer, poring over dog magazines and litters of pups registered with the American Kennel Club. Fate intervened. While kayaking on the San Juan River in Utah, I met a 10-month-old pup roaming free and making his own living in the desert. He wore no collar and looked to be a cross between a yellow Lab and who knew what -- a golden retriever, a redbone coonhound, a Rhodesian ridgeback -- a dog who seemed to shape-shift before my eyes. It was love at first sight.
219 2006-02-13 Wanda Clayton, a home health aide who was late for an appointment, picked the wrong place to be during yesterday's snowstorm: the Franklin Avenue shuttle in Brooklyn.     While most subways across the city muddled through, the Franklin Avenue line...
220 2006-02-14 There must be a revolution brewing in real estate when agents are proclaiming manifestos. Jon Strum, the agent who writes the "L.A. real estate blog," just put up his Manifesto for the Future for the world to read. He starts out slow: Now, many me...
221 2006-02-14 Readers respond to Paul Krugman's Feb. 13 column, "Debt and Denial" Andrew Levin, Hilo, Hawaii: The president's top economic advisor was interviewed by Wolf Blitzer about a week ago, and said that the middle class now pays a lower proportion of ou...
222 2006-02-14 Rufus, a 5-year-old colored bull terrier from Holmdel, N.J., won the 130th Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show....
223 2006-02-14 LISS--Stanley. Forever in our hearts, love on your birthday. Ellen, Robert and Barbara, Allyson and Adam, David and Adam, Mason and Ian...
224 2006-02-14 To the Editor:     Your Feb. 12 editorial depressingly discusses the president and ''the trust gap.''     The next day, Paul Krugman demoralizes us about the economy and its ''debt and denial.'' Across the page, Bob Herbert adds to our fever with ...
225 2006-02-14 In October 2004, Totmianina was injured in an even more violent fall, tumbling from the top of a lift and hitting the ice headfirst. She sustained severe bruises and a concussion, but returned to skate only two weeks later.

When asked about Zhang Dan recovering enough to finish the competition, Totmianina said, "I could not finish my program because I was unconscious."

For Totmianina and Marinin, the recovery process was difficult. She had to muster enough courage to return to the sport, and Marinin said he was devastated about dropping his partner. He wondered if she would ever trust him again, but for her, it was not a question. She insisted they return to training as soon as possible.

When they finished their long program Monday, awash in relief and joy, Marinin dramatically knelt in front of Totmianina and kissed her hand. "It was a show of appreciation," he said.

They became the 12th straight Russian or Soviet pair to win Olympic gold, but to them, it was a journey of two people fighting for each other. They said afterward that it was the final performance of their career, that they planned to turn professional. They skated to "Romeo and Juliet," but instead of a tragic ending, they created a triumphant one.

Their score of 135.84 in the long program was the highest in the competition, and combined with their score from the short program Saturday, gave them a total of 204.48. They were so far ahead of Zhang and Zhang (189.73) and Shen Xue and Zhao Hongbo of China (186.91), who won their second straight bronze medal, that the pairs controversy of four years ago became a distant memory.

At the Salt Lake Games, the Russian pair of Elena Berezhnaya and Anton Sikharulidze won the gold over Jamie Salé and David Pelletier of Canada, but controversy erupted when it was revealed that a French judge said she had been pressured to vote for the Russians over the Canadians. That prompted the International Skating Union to award Salé and Pelletier matching golds, and a new scoring system was devised to discourage future conspiracies.

In this Olympics, however, controversy was replaced by three stories of human perseverance.

Shen and Zhao, the bronze medalists, had their Olympics hopes put in question in August, when Zhao ruptured his left Achilles' tendon. They were not sure until recently if they could even skate here.

"This year was so difficult for us," Zhao said. "This is sort of a miracle."

Totmianina said she believed these things worked out this way for a reason. "You have to be born to be an Olympic champion," she said. "You have to be born under a lucky star."

Zhang and Zhang did not feel so lucky when their dream seemed to collapse to the ice, but their determination to finish their program may go down in Olympic lore as one of the most courageous figure skating performances.

"The quad throw takes a lot of risk," Zhao said of his countrymen. "We admire their spirit."

Zhang Dan limped onto the podium to receive her medal, her left knee heavily wrapped. She seemed reluctant, despite being asked several times, to describe how painful it was.

"I think if I can do the first element that I can do all the others," she said. "We didn't say a word about giving up. We say we want to go on."

They skated to a silver with a moment that will be remembered longer than the golden one.
226 2006-02-14 To the Editor:     The Bush administration has been, and continues to be, empowered by the solid support of Congressional Republicans. Until enough of them acknowledge the truth behind your editorial, and place their country ahead of their party, ...
227 2006-02-14 At the same time, a national group of evolution defenders has bombarded 5 of the 19 board members considered crucial to a vote against the lesson plan with 30,000 e-mail messages over the past week, and just Monday, the president of the National Academy of Sciences urged the board to change the lesson and the underlying curriculum guidelines to "conform to established scientific standards."

"All of that adds up to a sense of urgency and a sense of now is the time to clean up our act," said Robin C. Hovis, a stockbroker from Millersburg who is one of two board members pushing an emergency motion on Tuesday to delete the "critical analysis" language and the lesson plan. "There is an atmosphere among the board, at least a growing atmosphere, that this is a misguided policy and we better get rid of it."

Though the lesson plan is optional and never uses the words "intelligent design," its explanation of concepts like homology, the fossil record and endosymbiosis parallel those in the texts "Icons of Evolution" and "Of Pandas and People," written by proponents of intelligent design.

The Discovery Institute, in Seattle, the intellectual home of the design movement, had distanced itself from the Dover case but has long heralded Ohio's "critical analysis" approach as a model for the nation, and is ardently defending the lesson plan.

On Monday, the institute released a Zogby International poll it had commissioned showing that 69 percent of Ohio voters believed that scientific evidence against evolution should be included in curriculums, and 76 percent agreed that "students should also be able to learn about scientific evidence that points to an intelligent design of life." The institute has also proffered letters from two science professors supporting Ohio's standards and model lesson plan.

John G. West, associate director of the Center for Science and Culture at the institute, said: "This just shows the extremism of the other side. They think Dover is their wedge to try to stop any even voluntary critical analysis of Darwin's theory in the classroom. They obviously don't think they can win in the court of public opinion on the issue, and that's why they're using scare tactics."

Local supporters of the standards echoed Mr. West's confidence that, unlike the Dover curriculum, the one in Ohio could pass constitutional muster. The Pennsylvania ruling is not binding elsewhere.

"If I had the money, I'd pay for the lawsuit," said David Zanotti, president of the conservative American Policy Roundtable in Strongsville, Ohio. "They should sue or shut up."

Debate over evolution here dates to 2000, when the board began developing statewide academic standards, which do not dictate curriculum to the 613 local districts but provide a blueprint for standardized tests.

A proposal to teach intelligent design alongside evolution was rejected. Instead, the board in December 2002 unanimously adopted standards requiring that 10th graders be able to "describe how scientists continue to investigate and critically analyze aspects of evolutionary theory," with a parenthetical note that "this benchmark does not mandate the teaching or testing of intelligent design."

Since then, New Mexico, Minnesota and Kansas have adopted similar standards, and Pennsylvania lists evolution among half a dozen theories to be critically analyzed. But only Ohio has a model lesson plan, adopted by a divided board in 2004, that provides teachers a practical how-to guide. It is unclear how frequently it is used.

Besides the Dover decision, the disclosure in December of documents detailing internal discussions of the lesson plan helped revive debate here. Obtained by Americans United for the Separation of Church and State, a group considering a suit on the plan, the documents show that department scientists and outside experts condemned the lesson as "a lie," "crackpot," "religious," "creationism" and "an insult to science."

Asked whether the lesson connects skills to the real world, an external reviewer wrote: "Not the real scientific world. The real religious world, yes, the real world based on faith, yes, the real world of fringe thinking, yes!"

Patricia Princehouse, an evolutionary biologist and historian of science who has led the charge against the lesson plan, said, "Basically critical analysis is intelligent design relabeled, just as intelligent design was creationism relabeled."

Governor Taft entered the fray in early February, telling newspaper reporters and editors that the board should ask the attorney general to review the lesson; that intelligent design should not be taught or tested; and that he should have questioned candidates more vigorously on the issue before filling the eight board seats he controls.

Tuesday's expected showdown comes a month after the board voted 9 to 8 against an emergency motion to delete the lesson plan. Martha W. Wise, a board member who sponsored that motion, said that this time she would propose removing both the lesson plan and the critical analysis benchmark, while also restoring a fuller definition of science to note that its theories "while not 'believed in' through faith may be accepted or rejected on the basis of evidence."

Ms. Wise said she was unsure whether she had secured 10 votes for the emergency motion, but expressed confidence that a majority would at least call for a reconsideration of the lesson plan by the board's lawyers and a committee.

But Deborah Owens Fink, the board member who originally supported the dual study of evolution and design and has been the leading defender of the standards, said, "The lesson has been in use for two years, and certainly a hole hasn't been cut in the ozone or anything."
228 2006-02-14 To Sergeant Feder and his supporters, the case is not about police regulations but about free speech. Paul Bergrin, his lawyer, said that since Sergeant Feder's act had never made any reference to his day job, people in the community who might not appreciate scatological humor and odes to sexual deviance would have no reason to associate his act with the Police Department.

"This is a man who risks his life every day to protect the public and uphold the Constitution," said Mr. Bergrin, who will defend Sergeant Feder at his departmental hearing on Feb. 23. "It's sad that the Police Department is trying to deprive him of his constitutional right of self-expression just because they're worried about getting political pressure."

Sergeant Feder got his start in comedy by working as a bodyguard for Mr. Clay, the comedian who became wildly successful by making brash sexual references, including many that gay activists considered homophobic, and with unsparing diatribes about the physiques of female audience members.

Mr. Clay would often invite Sergeant Feder onstage to deliver a few jokes. His countless requests to "get me a club soda, Kenny," led to Sergeant Feder's stage name. The sergeant took a brief leave of absence more than a decade ago to join Mr. Clay's national tour and, after returning to the force, began making occasional appearances at local comedy clubs and more recently on the XM Satellite Radio program "Opie & Anthony."

Mr. Bergrin said that Sergeant Feder had never received complaints from any comedy club patrons. He said he suspected that the CD was sent to police officials as an act of retaliation by a rogue police officer Sergeant Feder had investigated. "It's hard to imagine who else might do such a thing," he said.

Police officials say they are still not sure who sent the CD. But once they heard Sergeant Feder onstage delivering punch lines about raping a bride at knifepoint, having sex with his dog and sexually molesting his own 5-year-old son, they opened an investigation that led to several departmental charges, they said. The department alleges that he used a police computer to write one of the controversial monologues. It has also charged that he violated the regulation requiring officers to notify their superiors about moonlighting.

But Mr. Bergrin said that Sergeant Feder's performances did not qualify as moonlighting because he was not paid for them and, even if he had been, police supervisors were notified about his work onstage.

As for the primary charge -- that Sergeant Feder violated the department's moral turpitude clause -- his supporters say that obscenity is in the eye of the beholder. The West Orange Police Department's uniform standards of conduct prohibit any "deeds, signs or actions that violate public morals or the common sense of the community."

But Jamie Masada, who owns the Manhattan comedy club where Sergeant Feder gave the performance that landed him in trouble, said that the public was clearly sophisticated enough to recognize when comedians are trying to wield offensiveness as an art form.

"Howard Stern has made $500 million talking about sex with midgets," said Mr. Masada, who founded the Laugh Factory comedy club. "So people obviously find it to be entertaining. That's what entertainers do -- talk about things that the public finds funny."

But Chief Abbott's opinion on the matter is likely to offend even Sergeant Feder. He thinks his sergeant's routine is outdated rather than amusing.

"Back in the '80s, when Andrew Dice Clay and all these shock comics were coming up, it was funny because it was shocking," he said. "You couldn't believe they were actually saying all these things. But now they've said it all already, so it's not shocking or funny. And no one wants to hear it from a police officer."
229 2006-02-14 To the Editor:     ''The Trust Gap'' (editorial, Feb. 12), concerning very important issues for Americans, did not go far enough.      Extremely credible sources, like Paul Pillar, a former intelligence official whom you mention, have said that th...
230 2006-02-14 To the Editor:     Yes, I agree with you: We ''can't think of a president who has deserved that trust less'' than George W. Bush. Yet the biggest problem is not Mr. Bush, because people get the government they deserve....
231 2006-02-14 To the Editor:      With a methodical precision mostly unopposed by a compliant Congress, the Bush administration has steadily chipped away at America's basic liberties. It is likely that years from now, we will grieve over the irreparable damage ...
232 2006-02-14 Interior Department Plan Forgoes $7 Billion In Royalties for Domestic Oil Drilling  The federal government is on the verge of one of the biggest giveaways of oil and gas in American history, an estimated $7 billion over five years. New projections...
233 2006-02-14 To the Editor:     Your Feb. 9 editorial about scheduled helicopter service at the Downtown Manhattan Heliport was unfair. It is wrong to criticize the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey for working with the private sector to help revitaliz...
234 2006-02-14 Even though all of this might suggest that kissing is in our genes, not all human cultures do it. Charles Darwin was one of the first to point this out. In his book "The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals," he noted that kissing "is replaced in various parts of the world by the rubbing of noses." Early explorers of the Arctic dubbed this the Eskimo kiss. (Actually, it turns out the Inuit were not merely rubbing noses, they were smelling each other's cheeks).

All across Africa, the Pacific and the Americas, we find cultures that didn't know about mouth kissing until their first contact with European explorers. And the attraction was not always immediately apparent. Most considered the act of exchanging saliva revolting. Among the Lapps of northern Finland, both sexes would bathe together in a state of complete nudity, but kissing was regarded as beyond the pale.

To this day, public kissing is still seen as indecent in many parts of the world. In 1990, the Beijing-based Workers' Daily advised its readers that "the invasive Europeans brought the kissing custom to China, but it is regarded as a vulgar practice which is all too suggestive of cannibalism."

If kissing is not universal, then someone must have invented it. Vaughn Bryant, an anthropologist at Texas A&M, has traced the first recorded kiss back to India, somewhere around 1500 B.C., when early Vedic scriptures start to mention people "sniffing" with their mouths, and later texts describe lovers "setting mouth to mouth." From there, he hypothesizes, the kiss spread westward when Alexander the Great conquered the Punjab in 326 B.C.

The Romans were inveterate kissers, and along with Latin, the kiss became one of their chief exports. Not long after, early Christians invented the notion of the ritualistic "holy kiss" and incorporated it into the Eucharist ceremony. According to some cultural historians, it is only within the last 800 years, with the advent of effective dentistry and the triumph over halitosis, that the lips were freed to become an erogenous zone.

For Freud, kissing was a subconscious return to suckling at the mother's breast. Other commentators have noted that the lips bear a striking resemblance to the labia, and that women across the world go to great lengths to make their lips look bigger and redder than they really are to simulate the appearance of sexual arousal, like animals in heat.

A few anthropologists have suggested that mouth kissing is a "relic gesture," with evolutionary origins in the mouth-to-mouth feeding that occurred between mother and baby in an age before Gerber and still takes place in a few parts of the world today. It can hardly be a coincidence, they note, that in several languages the word for kissing is synonymous with pre-mastication, or that "sweet" is the epithet most commonly applied to kisses.

But kissing may be more closely linked to our sense of smell than taste. Almost everyone has a distinct scent that is all one's own. Some people can even recognize their relatives in a dark room simply by their body odor (some relatives more than others). Kissing could have begun as a way of sniffing out who's who. From a whiff to a kiss was just a short trip across the face.

Whatever its origins, kissing seems to be advantageous. A study conducted during the 1980's found that men who kiss their wives before leaving for work live longer, get into fewer car accidents, and have a higher income than married men who don't. So put down this newspaper and pucker up. It does a body good.

Op-Ed Contributor Joshua Foer is working on a book about the science of memory.
235 2006-02-14 To the Editor:     Trust is something that is earned, and what has this president ever done to earn our trust? Nothing.     In fact, he's done everything to earn our mistrust, which is why he is always saying to us, ''Trust me.''    Barbara Davilm...
236 2006-02-14 SHOW dogs pranced beneath chandeliers as the dog writers (in dog ties, pins and earrings) shuffled into the cocktail hour, name tags identifying publications (Dog Fancy, Celebrating Greyhounds, Canine Chronicle).

Seventy years ago, it was not so. On Feb. 13, 1935, a group of 30 reporters who specialized in writing about dogs formed the Dog Writers Association of America in the Westminster Kennel Club's room in the old Madison Square Garden. On Sunday, a big storm outside, they gathered for their annual banquet at the Affinia Manhattan Hotel to hear who had won their writing competitions.

The hotel happens to be one of the few in the city that welcomes dogs as guests.

The parade was a mix of old-timers and hip newcomers, as well as a relatively new breed, dog bloggers. Nominated writing crossed all categories -- "24 Hour Party Pooches," "Citizen Canine," "Stop Mounting Behavior" and "Corgi Haiku."

"It's the only place you can get an 'Attaboy,' " said Mordecai Siegal, 71, president emeritus of the association. He's a former playwright who left the stage for the larger audience of the dog house, and the author of "Good Dog, Bad Dog." ("It's the 'Joy of Cooking' of dog training.")

A member of the association since the late 60's -- when it was "a very exclusive little mafia" -- Mr. Siegal started covering dog shows because, he said, "I wanted to be part of that elite group."
237 2006-02-14 A federal immigration court judge in Manhattan yesterday dismissed the deportation proceedings against José Rodas, a 7-year-old whose case was described in a front-page article in The New York Times on Friday about how low-level immigration gatekeepers and prosecutors are using their growing discretionary power over travelers who pose no security risk.

Immigration authorities had been trying to deport José over the protests of his mother, Emily Arroyo, a United States citizen born in New York, ever since he returned from a brief trip to his native Canada two years ago without the right visa.

Earlier this month, the judge, Sarah M. Burr, suggested that lawyers for United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement use their discretion to close the case administratively. They refused, and instead demanded that José's mother, a hairstylist reared in Guatemala, buy him a one-way ticket to Canada by yesterday's hearing.

After the article appeared, immigration prosecutors joined the boy's lawyer, Irwin Berowitz, in a motion for permanent dismissal of the case, finding that José's situation fit government guidelines for prosecutorial discretion. As the minor child of a citizen, José is eligible to apply for permanent residency now that he is no longer in deportation proceedings.

"The judge said to me, 'Please just let your client and his mother know that I wish them the best of luck,' " Mr. Berowitz said.
238 2006-02-14 "If sites for those mobile homes are not approved in Louisiana, it is possible they will never be used for hurricane relief," said Nicol Andrews, a FEMA spokesman.

The report on the mobile homes, as well as widespread fraud in FEMA's emergency assistance to hurricane victims, came as the federal government's top three domestic security and disaster relief officials vowed to fix flaws in the nation's emergency response programs.

"I am accountable and accept responsibility for the performance of the entire department, good and bad," the homeland security secretary, Michael Chertoff, told local and state disaster officials at a conference in Alexandria, Va. "I also have the responsibility to fix what went wrong."

The changes will include a cadre of new disaster response workers who will be available to respond quickly to any natural disaster or terrorist attack, Mr. Chertoff said, which could number as many as 1,500, a department official said.

The Homeland Security Department is also setting up specialized reconnaissance teams -- with access to helicopters, airplanes and high-tech electronic equipment that can send live video feeds to Washington -- to make sure officials know what is going on in a disaster zone.

Mr. Chertoff and R. David Paulison, the acting FEMA director, and Frances Fragos Townsend, President Bush's domestic security adviser, also promised to revise rules on debris removal and temporary housing, so local and state governments could move faster to clean up after a disaster and house the homeless.

Mr. Chertoff, Mr. Paulison and Ms. Townsend, repeating plans Mr. Chertoff outlined last year, also said they would improve communications systems and the registration process for disaster victims, so there would be fewer delays in getting help for those most in need.

"Hurricane Katrina is a defining moment in the history of emergency management," Mr. Paulison said at the conference, organized by the National Emergency Management Association.

Ms. Townsend, who at the request of Mr. Bush has been conducting her own investigation into the government's response to Hurricane Katrina, said she would issue a report by the end of the month that would have more than 100 recommendations for improving disaster response.

"We must restore and re-earn your confidence and trust," she told the local and state officials, "so that when somebody says 'I am from the federal government and I am here to help,' you can believe it and not laugh."

Back in Washington, members of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee were learning of problems still unfolding.

To date, about 72,000 travel trailers have been installed and occupied, of the roughly 100,000 that have been bought. Mr. Paulison said the agency was moving to order 10,000 more of the units, which cost about $10,000 each, while mobile homes cost on average $34,000. FEMA officials said that they had installed both trailers and mobile homes after previous disasters and that they had no reason to believe that Hurricane Katrina would be different.

But Bill Croft, coordinator for the hurricane housing task force in Louisiana, said federal officials should have realized that many hard-hit communities are in a flood plain, where a federal regulation bans mobile homes. "They are the ones who make these rules," Mr. Croft said.

He suggested that FEMA relax the regulation to allow the mobile homes near the coast. Another alternative would involve having the federal government pay Louisiana for the full cost of providing services if large, so-called FEMAvilles with hundreds of mobile homes were created in rural or suburban areas.

Ms. Andrews, the FEMA spokeswoman, said that relaxing the flood-plain regulation was not the answer.

"There are areas throughout Louisiana and the southeastern United States that aren't in a flood plain," she said.

As it stands, Richard L. Skinner, inspector general at the Homeland Security Department, told the Senate panel, many of the mobile homes might have to be sold as surplus, stored for some future disaster use or given to another federal agency.

"If they're sold as surplus property, what kind of return can you expect on that?" Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, asked Mr. Skinner.

"It's certainly not going to be very high," he responded, given the way they were being stored at a spot where some are sinking into the mud. "Some of the trailers that we inspected are actually warping, have lost wheels, and some have been cannibalized, parts taken out, and we don't even know where the parts are right now. So their value is going to decrease tremendously."
239 2006-02-14 Magic Mountain in Londonderry, Vt., opened on Monday, the first weekday since Jan. 30, thanks to four inches from the weekend storm coupled with manmade snow.

"It's catastrophically bad," said Michael Gerow, a lift operator there. "We're fighting it tooth and nail all the way, no question about that."

Across northern New England ice fishing tournaments have been called off, while the New England Sled Dog Club in Andover, Vt., has canceled or postponed three of its five races this year because of a lack of snow.

But some areas with snowmaking ability could not be happier that areas like Boston and New York City bore the brunt of the storm.

"It's great. What we find is that when people get snow in their backyards they think about skiing and snowboarding," said Laurie Newton, a spokeswoman for Mount Snow in West Dover, Vt., which got four inches Sunday and where 79 of 104 trails were open. "When you're in this business, you expect the ups and downs of the weather. To be honest, we know the snow will come; it's just a question of when."

Others are not so optimistic. Warren Miller, the owner of the Elmore General Store in Elmore, Vt., said that on a normal winter weekend 600 to 800 snowmobilers gas up and take a break for sandwiches and coffee at his store. Last weekend about a dozen stopped in, Mr. Miller said.

"We've been here 24 years, and this is our worst ever," he said. "There's flat out no snow. When there's no snow, there's no business in Elmore. It's that simple."

The region is only about five or six inches below its normal snowfall totals, with 46.8 inches having fallen in Burlington, Vt., so far this year, said John Goff, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service there. An abnormally warm and rainy January made things melt quickly, Mr. Goff said, although it has been very cold in recent days.

For some ski areas, the problem is not a lack of snow but a perception that the slopes are not covered.

"People come up here on a whim thinking that the conditions won't be that great, but they try anyway and are extremely surprised at how well-kept the mountains are," said Matt Zogby, a spokesman for Killington Mountain, Vt., which used 10 million gallons of water last week to make snow. "It hasn't been all bad for us, and now that the temperatures are staying a lot colder, it improves the amount of snow we can make."

Art Woolf, a professor of economics at the University of Vermont, said he could not declare this winter a bust because not all of the economic data had been reported. But, he said, all signs point to a bad season for winter businesses.

"I can't believe it's going to be a very good year," Professor Woolf said. "It's just a light snowfall year. The impulse travelers are the ones who are probably not going to be here this year."

He added: "I think you'll see a lot of people not going to Vermont this weekend and staying in Massachusetts to ski."
240 2006-02-15 ....
241 2006-02-15 As the investigation of Anthony Pellicano continues to ripple, substantial numbers on Hollywood's A-List are beginning to develop facial tics. It's a town where not only does everybody know every one else; they have probably sued each other a time...
242 2006-02-15 The state pharmacy board ruled that Wal-Mart pharmacies were required under state law to stock and dispense emergency contraception pills. Three women sued the chain this month, citing a state law requiring all pharmacies to stock and dispense com...
243 2006-02-15 KARACHI, Pakistan - OF course this isn't about freedom of speech."

I've heard that line countless times in Karachi lately about the Danish cartoon controversy, including from journalists who fiercely guard their own right to work without censorship. There is nothing but condemnation here for European newspapers' publication of the cartoons.

But there are two separate threads to this condemnation. The first relates to the extreme religious offense caused by the cartoons, which has prompted an increasing number of protests, with a worrying trend towards violence. The small rallies a week ago were heartening in their peacefulness, but yesterday the protests claimed two deaths in Lahore and significant destruction. Though the numbers taking to the streets are still not vast by Pakistani standards they are growing.

The second thread to the condemnation concentrates not on the offense itself, but on the motive behind it. The idea that the cartoons were a deliberate provocation to get us to behave badly is being encouraged by officialdom: various political groups have condemned "the planned conspiracy by the West to instigate the Muslims"; the Foreign Office has said the cartoons are part of "sinister agendas"; the chief minister of the country's most religiously conservative province, himself a leading member of the religious alliance that gains much of its popularity from its anti-Western stance, has said the cartoons are aimed at bringing about "the clash of civilizations."

"Do you think people buy this line?" I asked a businessman whose political opinion I've always respected.

"Yes," he said. "But there are two ways in which that can be played out. One is that your 'fringe element,' who often turn to violence, mute their responses in order to defeat this alleged agenda of provocation. And the other is that they say, 'You want a fight, O.K., we'll give you a fight.' It all depends on how the religious leaders direct them for their own political ends."
244 2006-02-15 BRUSSELS, Feb. 14 - The European Commission, acting with the Justice Department on Tuesday, raided air-cargo carriers on both sides of the Atlantic, seeking evidence of a broad price-fixing cartel.

A statement by the commission, the year-round administrative arm of the European Union, said it had "reason to believe that the companies concerned may have violated laws which prohibit practices such as price-fixing."

In Washington, an antitrust spokeswoman for the Justice Department, Gina Talamona, said it was "investigating the possibility of anticompetitive practices in the air cargo industry" and described the inquiry as "industrywide."

Neither authority would name the companies involved in the investigation, but later in the day British Airways, Lufthansa, Air France, KLM and Cargolux, a Luxembourg-based carrier, confirmed they were cooperating with European investigators.

A spokesman for American Airlines, Tim Wagner, said representatives from the Justice Department came to company headquarters on Tuesday to hand officials a subpoena. Earlier, he described the subpoena as being "in connection with its investigation regarding practices in the air cargo industry."
245 2006-02-15 Jayson Hale of the United States tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee Tuesday during a solo training session for the snowboardcross and will miss the Olympic competition.     Hale, a 20-year-old from Sugar Bowl, Calif., was injure...
246 2006-02-15 Retail Sales Rose 2.3 Percent Last Month, Showing Promise of a Strong 2006 Economy  Shaking off a middling holiday shopping season and fears of higher heating bills, Americans spent freely in January as retail spending rose 2.3 percent in the mont...
247 2006-02-15 "As we look at Avastin and Herceptin pricing, right now the health economics hold up, and therefore I don't see any reason to be touching them," said William M. Burns, the chief executive of Roche's pharmaceutical division and a member of Genentech's board. "The pressure on society to use strong and good products is there."

Studies show that Avastin can prolong the lives of patients with late-stage breast and lung cancer by several months when the drug is combined with existing therapies. Genentech expects to seek federal approval later this year to sell it specifically for those diseases. But even now, doctors, who are free to prescribe the drug as they see fit, are using Avastin for some breast and lung cancer cases -- and finding its cost beyond the means of some patients.

"Avastin is a superb drug, but its cost is already discouraging patients and doctors from using it," said Dr. David Johnson, who heads the cancer unit at Vanderbilt University and is a former president of the American Society of Clinical Oncology. "I wish it were one-tenth the cost, and if it were I would be giving it to almost everybody."

With colon cancer, a year of Avastin treatment costs about $50,000. But the drug will be used at higher doses for lung and breast cancer, and Genentech does not plan to reduce the unit price, even though the additional cost of producing a higher dose is minimal. Roche executives described the pricing plans were described in a recent interview.

Because Genentech is a leading developer of cancer therapies, some doctors also fear that the company's pricing plans for Avastin -- around $8,800 a month -- may encourage other companies to charge more for their own oncology drugs. That could potentially drive up the overall cost of cancer treatment to unsustainable levels, they say.

Right now, one of the few cancer drugs with a higher monthly price than the level planned for Avastin is Erbitux. The drug, used for colon cancer, sells for $9,600 monthly, but is not as widely prescribed as Avastin and is typically used only as a last-resort treatment for a few months.

Dr. Susan Desmond-Hellmann, the president of product development of Genentech, which is based in South San Francisco, Calif., said that Genentech had set Avastin's price based on "the value of innovation, and the value of new therapies." Genentech, which had more than $6 billion in sales last year, has many programs to help patients afford its medicines, and last year contributed $21 million to charities that help patients with their insurance co-payments, she said.

Genentech intends to file an application later this year with the Food and Drug Administration to expand the drug's label to include treatment for breast and lung cancer. While nothing stops doctors now from prescribing Avastin for those diseases, F.D.A. approval would let the company promote and advertise it for such treatments and make insurers more likely to pay for the treatments.

For now, insurers are deciding case by case whether to cover Avastin for breast and lung cancer, and in many instances they are rejecting coverage or at least delaying decisions.

"Insurers may say, 'It's not approved for that indication, so we're not paying for it,' " said Dr. Paul A. Bunn Jr., the director of the University of Colorado cancer center.

In those cases, patients must sign a waiver agreeing to reimburse the hospital for the price of treatment if the insurer will not agree to do so. And some patients are afraid to sign the waivers, Dr. Bunn said. "A couple of patients have refused to sign or take treatment."

So far, insurers are generally covering Avastin's use in colon cancer, and they say they will probably cover its F.D.A.-approved use with other cancers.

Other medicines as expensive as Avastin are typically prescribed only for rare conditions affecting small numbers of patients, and their makers justify the costs as necessary for getting a return on their up-front investments in the drugs. A few medicines, like Ceredase, a treatment for Gaucher disease (pronounced go-SHAY) from the biotechnology company Genzyme, can cost as much as $500,000 a year for some patients. Gaucher disease is a rare metabolic disorder whose symptoms include anemia.

Avastin is currently used mainly in cases of late-stage colon cancer, a disease that affects about 50,000 Americans annually. On average, those patients take the drug for 11 months and it extends their lives an average of 5 months, compared with other treatments.

Genentech and Roche are also testing Avastin for use in earlier stages of colon cancer, lung and breast and cancer, which collectively are diagnosed in almost 500,000 Americans a year. Genentech and doctors hope that if the drug is used earlier in treatment it can extend lives much longer -- although that would require patients' finding the means to pay for it longer, too.

Earlier this week Roche stopped recruiting patients for one clinical trial that included Avastin, while researchers try to explain the deaths of several patients. But doctors generally view Avastin as one of the safest cancer treatments. About 200 clinical trials including Avastin are taking place worldwide.

With Avastin's expanded use, analysts expect the drug's sales to soar to $7 billion in the United States alone by 2009, compared with $1.1 billion last year. Over the same period, Genentech's overall profits are forecast to triple, to $4 billion in 2009, as sales -- $6.6 billion last year -- climb to $18 billion.

"They are certainly blazing new ground with the price of the drug," said Geoffrey C. Porges, an industry analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. "They're saying, we think this is fair value, at least on a relative basis."

Genentech has always been aggressive in pricing its therapies, Mr. Porges said. But insurers and government agencies have eventually accepted Genentech's terms, because its treatments, which include Herceptin, its current breast cancer treatment, have been shown to prolong life.

When they were originally discovered, drugs like Avastin, which aim at the blood vessels that tumors use to grow, were expected to replace traditional chemotherapy, which directly fight tumor cells. Instead, the drugs have been found to work best when used in conjunction with chemotherapy. That has caused the overall cost of cancer treatment to soar, said Dr. Len Lichtenfeld, deputy chief medical officer of the American Cancer Society.

"The financial resources are not limitless," he said. "There are tremendous pressures on the cost of cancer therapies today."

The high prices are especially discouraging for patients who have been told that the new drugs may have only marginal benefits for them.

Ellis Minrath, who has pancreatic cancer, said he had chosen not to take Tarceva, a drug from Genentech that is approved for lung cancer and has shown promise in pancreatic cancer. He did so after learning that it would cost him about $1,000 a month in co-payments, even though he is covered by Medicare.

"If anybody came out and said, 'By God, this is the stuff. You want to get well, find a way to buy it,' that would be one thing," said Mr. Minrath, who is 87. "But that isn't the case. The forecast of how much it's going to do is not that wonderful."

But Dr. Desmond-Hellmann, the Genentech product development chief, said she would recommend that Mr. Minrath be treated with Tarceva. "I don't think any patient should go without a Genentech drug for an inability to pay," she said. "If this is about money, that would disturb me."

The higher cost of using Avastin in breast and lung cancer, compared with colon cancer, is a result of cancer drugs' being priced on the basis of weight. In colon cancer, Genentech tested Avastin at a dose of 5 milligrams of the drug per kilogram -- or 2.2 pounds -- of the patient's body weight. But in lung and breast cancer, the company tested the drug at a dose of 10 milligrams per kilogram of body weight.

Because the actual cost of producing Avastin is a fraction of what Genentech charges for it, some analysts and doctors had expected the company to lower Avastin's price per milligram for use in lung and breast cancer.

Dr. Leonard Saltz, an oncologist at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York, noted that Genentech had not tested the Avastin at the dose level for colon cancer in large-scale trials of lung and breast cancer. As a result, no one really knows whether the lower dose might turn out to be equally effective in lung and breast cancer, he said. Besides costing less, he said, a lower dose might have fewer side effects.

"There are no meaningful data to allow us to address that question," he said.

Dr. Desmond-Hellmann said that Genentech was assuming that some cancer doctors might, in fact, use Avastin at the lower dosage to treat breast and lung cancer. That is a reason the company does not want to lower Avastin's per-milligram price, she said, because doing so would cut too deeply into revenues if doctors do not prescribe the higher doses that were used in the breast and lung cancer trials.

"We don't actually know whether physicians will actually use Avastin as was used in the clinical trials," she said.

But Dr. Saltz and other doctors said that they would almost certainly stick to the higher Avastin dose that was tested in the clinical trials, for fear that a lower dose might not be as effective.
248 2006-02-15 France Télécom said it that would cut 17,000 jobs, or about 8 percent of its work force, as it predicted a shift into Internet telephony by the end of the year. ''What has changed is the pace of evolution,'' said Didier Lombard, the chief execut...
249 2006-02-15 In an interview with investigators, Mrs. Raisch changed her story. She implicated Mr. Mangelsdorf and acknowledged having a nonsexual but "emotionally inappropriate" relationship with him at MidAmerica Nazarene University.

Mrs. Raisch was convicted of first-degree murder last May. Shortly before her trial, Mr. Mangelsdorf was also charged with murder and spent a week in jail before being released on a $300,000 bond. He adamantly denied having any involvement in the killing and said he would never accept a plea deal.

But in the court hearing on Monday, Mr. Mangelsdorf admitted to participating in the murder of Mr. Harmon, a friend. He struck a deal with prosecutors, who agreed to drop charges of first-degree murder.

"I don't think most people are capable of killing others," said Paul J. Morrison, the Johnson County district attorney, who went to the murder scene as a young assistant prosecutor and recalled it as one of the bloodiest he had visited in his two decades in law enforcement. "But this does stand for how some humans can seal off horrible things and bury them. I don't think everyone can. But these two could."

Prosecutors said they were prepared to argue at Mr. Mangelsdorf's trial that he and Mrs. Raisch had become romantically involved and had conspired to murder Mr. Harmon so she would not have to face the stigma of a divorce. They contended that the two devised a plan in which Mr. Mangelsdorf would kill Mr. Harmon and Mrs. Raisch would tell the police that he had been murdered by two black intruders.

They carried out their plan in the early hours of Feb. 28, 1982, according to the authorities. Mr. Mangelsdorf attacked Mr. Harmon with a crow bar while he slept and struck him in the head at least a dozen times, the police said.

Law enforcement officials were skeptical of their story, but they lacked evidence to pursue charges against them.

After attending Harvard, Mr. Mangelsdorf worked for a time as the chief operating officer of Omni Services, a uniform provider that was acquired by the Cintas Corporation, and was also hired to run a carbonated beverage division at Parmalat, the huge Italian food and dairy company. He has recently been working as a consultant.

Despite his guilty plea, Mr. Mangelsdorf remains free on bond and can return to his three-story home in Pelham, which he bought in 2003 for $1.3 million. He lives there with his wife, Kristina, the head of marketing for PepsiCo's diet beverage division, and their two children, one of whom was born in December. He has three children from a previous marriage. In an e-mail message yesterday, Mr. Mangelsdorf declined to comment, saying that "with sentencing approaching and with a desire to be granted parole at the earliest opportunity, there is no explanation that we can provide that doesn't carry downside risk."
250 2006-02-15 It is 10:30 a.m. on Feb. 11, the much anticipated opening day of Omotesando Hills, a sprawling, upscale Tokyo shopping development spanning the Harajuku and Aoyama neighborhoods and running along the historic tree-lined Omotesando Avenue, the Japa...
251 2006-02-15 After returning from a cruise around the Hawaiian Islands last year, she told him about a "full-blown production" of "Grease" in the ship's theater, Mr. Jacobs said. "She phoned me and said it's not just people doing one song from the show, they're doing it full-out," he said.

Mr. Taft said he believed that some cruise lines had staged "Grease," in whole or in part, several hundred times without seeking a license from the authors. He said that a lawyer representing Celebrity Cruises admitted to him that "Grease" had been performed aboard its ships 356 times. But, Mr. Taft said, that lawyer told him no permission was required because the shows occurred "in the middle of the ocean" and beyond the reach of United States copyright laws.

Michael Sheehan, a spokesman in Miami for Royal Caribbean Cruises, which operates the Royal Caribbean International and Celebrity cruise lines, said officials of the company would not comment "by virtue of the fact that there is pending litigation."

Vance Gulliksen, a spokesman for Carnival Corporation in Miami, which operates 12 cruise lines, also declined to comment. Last week, Carnival mentioned the suit by Mr. Jacobs in its annual report to shareholders, telling them, "We intend to vigorously defend this lawsuit."

Immunity from American copyright laws would probably be the strongest defense against a suit like the one filed by Mr. Jacobs, theatrical lawyers said. Any show producer who makes use of the story, dialogue or lyrics of a musical beyond singing a few of its songs is required to purchase a license for what are known as grand performing rights, said Gordon P. Firemark, an entertainment lawyer in Los Angeles.

"If this was happening on dry land, I would say it was a no-brainer," Mr. Firemark said, referring to the alleged unlicensed performances. "They're supposed to pay royalties and if they don't, they're infringing." Still, he added, "copyright infringement cases are hard to win."

The litigation is complicated by the corporate structure of the big cruise lines. While many of them have their headquarters in American cities, most of them are incorporated in other countries. For example, Royal Caribbean, whose stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange, is incorporated in Liberia.

But Mr. Taft said the dispute went beyond which flags the ships fly. The cruise operators are contracting with American production companies, selling tickets to Americans in the United States and sailing out of ports like New York and Fort Lauderdale, Fla., he said. Even if they had no contact with the United States, they would still be bound by the laws of the country where their ships are registered, Mr. Taft said, and those countries tend to respect copyrights.

Some cruise operators seem to think they do not need licenses because they stage abridged versions of plays, Mr. Taft said. But even high school drama teachers know that copyright laws require permission to stage an established show like "Grease" or to make any changes in its script, he said.

Fielding such requests is part of his job. On Thursday, he said, he received a call from a high school in Louisiana that was closed for a few weeks last year because of Hurricane Katrina. An official there wanted permission to switch gears from performing the whole show to having students simply sing some of its songs. The official offered to pay $200 for the license. Mr. Taft said he granted permission but declined the payment.

The enduring popularity of "Grease," which originally ran on Broadway from 1972 until 1980 and is scheduled for a second revival next spring, is rewarding to Mr. Jacobs, both financially and psychically. But some days, it is just plain annoying, he said. The freshest offense came before breakfast one day last summer aboard a Disney Cruise Line ship, when he encountered two people in chipmunk costumes entertaining children to the tune of "Born to Hand Jive," a song from "Grease."

His first thought, he said, was "Do we get paid for this?" His second: "Shouldn't I at least get some free pancakes?"
252 2006-02-16 New shows in New York include "Jump/Cut," "I Love You Because" and "Paradise."...
253 2006-02-16 Disney Online, best known for Toontown, a massively multiplayer Internet game for children, has begun a $50-a-year subscription service for the most discriminating of audiences: preschoolers.

The service, Playhouse Disney Preschool Time Online, marries Web features (for managing a child's progress and dispensing biweekly doses of learning games) with larger downloads of content that can reside on a hard drive, providing fast-playing games and TV-like animation.

After an 85-megabyte download from www.preschooltime.com, the program can be customized, with birthdays, favorite colors and so on, for up to five children. The service requires Internet Explorer, with firewalls either disabled or modified so that Disney's automated downloads can take place. Unfortunately, turning off firewalls can make a computer vulnerable to other programs, not so well intentioned.

The service was developed in consultation with the designers of classic software series like Reader Rabbit and the Living Books. It may help fill the need for high-quality, safe interactive media for young children. If it succeeds, others will certainly follow.
254 2006-02-16 BHP Billiton, the world's largest mining company, announced a 48 percent jump in profit for the latest six-month period, as soaring prices for iron ore, coking coal and copper raised its earning margins even as costs spiraled. Net profit for the s...
255 2006-02-16 But Chief Justice Deborah T. Poritz noted that the institution had undergone dramatic changes in recent decades in allowing people of different races to marry, and granting women more rights. "What is the state resting this on?" she asked. "Just that there's been a definition for a long time?"

Officially called Lewis v. Harris, the case represents the final step of a legal journey through the state system that began in 2002, when the couples -- who have been together for 13 to 34 years -- claimed that New Jersey's Constitution gave them the right to marry.

The court is expected to rule in a few months. Should it approve same-sex marriage, New Jersey and Massachusetts would be the only states where such marriages are legally condoned, though there are cases pending elsewhere, including Washington, New York and California. In Vermont, the Legislature, under court mandate, created civil unions, which confer domestic partnership benefits but are not recognized in most states.

But New Jersey's high court, legal scholars say, is particularly interesting because it has been considered one of the most liberal, and has also been unafraid to recommend solutions in other controversial matters, including schools and housing, that some people argue could have, or should have, been done by the Legislature. And while a number of states have moved to ban same-sex marriages, New Jersey has been going in the opposite direction and expanding its modest package of domestic partnership benefits.

"How the court frames the decision could have an influence, a bearing, on other courts throughout the united states," said William B. Rubenstein, a law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, and author of "Sexual Orientation and the Law." "If it comes against same-sex couples, it's a blow to the momentum."

As might be expected, Wednesday's proceeding was bookended by demonstrations and rallies, and drew hundreds of people. All but a handful were aligned with the plaintiffs.

One prominent New Jersey conservative who did show up, John Tomicki, executive director of the League of American Families, said before the proceedings, "We hope that the court will resist the temptation to legislate from the bench."

But one plaintiff, Cindy Meneghin of Butler, delivered one of the more memorable lines of the day, when she talked about her hopes for her partner of 31 years, Maureen Kilian, and their two children, Josh, 13, and Sarah, 11.

"I want to get married before my children do," she said.
256 2006-02-16 Saying it wants to accelerate preparations for a possible flu pandemic, the venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins is setting up a $200 million fund to invest in companies developing products to battle influenza and other infectious diseases.      T...
257 2006-02-16 In the study, Dr. Nicholas Christakis of Harvard Medical School and Paul Allison, a sociologist at the University of Pennsylvania, studied the medical records of 518,240 married couples enrolled in Medicare in 1993, most of whom were over 70. They found that losing a spouse increased the risk of dying prematurely by 20 percent, to 6.7 percent from 5.6 percent for men, and to 3.1 percent from 2.6 percent for women, in the first year of the study. But having a husband or wife hospitalized also increased their mortality, by about a quarter as much as being widowed did. The researchers examined nine years of records of the couples.

"What it shows is that people are interconnected, and their health is interconnected, and seeing a person you love suffer, seeing them ill, harms you," Dr. Christakis said.

Separating out the effects of specific diseases, that study found that fatal illnesses, like terminal cancer, were the least burdensome, perhaps because they are well defined, often predictable and tend not to rob people of their lucidity until the very end, the researchers said.

The diseases that caused the highest increase in risk for spouses who were providing care were psychiatric disorders and dementia: men whose wives were hospitalized for these diseases had about a 20 percent increased risk of dying themselves -- the same risk associated with being widowed. Women caring for similarly afflicted husbands were at a higher risk of dying than if their husbands died.

It is no surprise, experts say, that the illnesses that produce the most stress are those, like dementia, that seem to leach away a loved one's intelligence and personality while leaving them physically functional for years -- there but not there -- a process that some have called ambiguous loss.

"When something like this happens and you are alone, you're the only one, it's a very, very draining situation," Dr. Bloom said.

The researchers said they were now analyzing the medical records to find out more about what caused the deaths of the caregivers. Stress-related illnesses appear to have been more common in the first months after a spouse fell ill, and loss of social support may have been more of a factor later on, they said.
258 2006-02-16 In his strongest comments to date about the unsolved murder of a security guard during the filming of a music video in Brooklyn 11 days ago, Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly chided the rapper Busta Rhymes yesterday for failing to meet with investigators, saying he was exasperated by the lack of cooperation.

"No one has come forward, no one has volunteered to be questioned in this matter," he said. "I find it quite frankly, quite disturbing."

Speaking at a news conference at police headquarters yesterday, Mr. Kelly said he was dismayed that Busta Rhymes, 33, whose real name is Trevor Smith, was not cooperating with efforts to solve the killing of Israel Ramirez, a 29-year-old who was gunned down Feb. 5 outside a recording studio in the Greenpoint section as a crowd of people, including Mr. Smith, stood by.

The police say they believe that Mr. Smith was standing on the street in the moments before the gunfire that killed Mr. Ramirez, who was his employee. Mr. Kelly said that requests to Mr. Smith's lawyer seeking his cooperation had gone unheeded.

"I mean, this individual worked for him, I'd think he'd be knocking on the door to come in and give us information," Mr. Kelly said of Mr. Smith. "This is not that difficult to figure out. Someone is your employee, is murdered in front of you, you'd think he might want to talk to the police, but that hasn't happened."

Mr. Kelly's comments reflected the growing frustration of investigators trying to sort out events surrounding a crime they believe was witnessed by scores of people. At the time of the shooting, as many as 500 people were inside the studio, including hip-hop luminaries like 50 Cent, DMX, Missy Elliott and Mary J. Blige. Initial hopes that people would come forward have since been dashed and detectives say that Mr. Smith's silence has had a chilling effect on the investigation, influencing others to withhold their cooperation.
259 2006-02-16 City Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr. yesterday proposed expanding New York City's property tax rebate program to give about 81,000 low- and middle-income elderly homeowners up to $600 a year, on top of the standard rebate of up to $400 they al...
260 2006-02-16 The commission said in a statement Wednesday that it would consider Microsoft's response carefully. "It is the commission that decides if Microsoft is in compliance with the ruling, not Microsoft," said Jonathan Todd, the commission's spokesman on competition matters.

On Dec. 22, the commission said Microsoft had not yet complied with its ruling. The agency said that "Microsoft had not yet provided complete and accurate specifications of the interoperability information which it is obliged to disclose."

Microsoft, however, said it had filed the technical documents to the commission by the Dec. 15 deadline. Those documents answered the remaining questions the commission had on the company's compliance, Microsoft said.

The commission, however, said it received nothing from Microsoft until after its public statement on the company. "This documentation was actually supplied on Dec. 26," the commission said.

Microsoft insists it has complied with the 2004 ruling, which among other things ordered the company to reveal technical details about the Windows operating system that would allow rival server software programs to work as well with Windows as Microsoft's own server software does.

"Microsoft has complied fully with the technical documentation requirements," the company said Wednesday.

An independent monitor approved by Microsoft who oversees the company's compliance with the ruling found, however, that the documents provided by Microsoft last fall did not meet the commission's requirements.

The monitor, Neil Barrett, a computer science professor at Cranfield University in England, told the commission last fall that he could not use Microsoft's instructions to make rival server software comparable to Microsoft's.

On Wednesday, Microsoft also complained that the commission failed to inform it of shortfalls in its response in time.

"The commission waited many months before informing Microsoft that it believed changes were necessary to the technical documents, and then gave Microsoft only a few weeks to make extensive revisions," the company said in its filing to the commission.

Microsoft has requested an oral hearing with antitrust officials and rivals in the software industry. The hearing will probably be held some time in the next two to three weeks, the commission said.

After the hearing, the commission will consult with national antitrust regulators from the 25 member states of the European Union. At that point, if it still believes Microsoft has not complied with the 2004 ruling, it will issue another ruling against the company, fining it 2 million euros a day retroactively to Dec. 15, the date Microsoft was supposed to have submitted all the necessary information.
261 2006-02-16 In His First Congressional Testimony, Bernanke Offers Upbeat View of Economy  In an upbeat, generally soothing assessment of the economy before Congress, Ben S. Bernanke, the new Federal Reserve chairman, suggested that the Fed might still have to...
262 2006-02-16 United States and Yemeni analysts said the circumstances of the escape suggested that the prisoners might have received help from guards or other Yemeni government employees. "It would be hard to imagine pulling something like this off without some inside help," one official in Washington said. "What isn't clear is at what level, and how many people were involved."

The men broke out of the maximum-security prison run by the Political Security Department early on Feb. 3, squeezing through a tunnel leading from the basement prison cell where they were all held to a mosque, on a main street on the edge of the Yemeni capital. They dug the tunnel in the soft soils around the prison in three months using makeshift tools, all the while hiding the operation and the dirt they excavated from the prison authorities.

Among them were Jamal Ahmed al-Badawi, the suspected organizer of the October 2000 bombing of the United States destroyer Cole, who had pulled off a previous prison break, and Fawaz al-Rabeei, who was convicted of leading a cell that bombed the French oil tanker Limburg off the Yemeni coast in 2002.

Also with them was Jaber Elbaneh, an American-Yemeni implicated along with the Lackawanna Six, a reputed sleeper cell in Buffalo, N.Y. Six of the seven pleaded guilty to providing material support to a terrorist organization and are serving prison terms. Mr. Elbaneh was convicted in absentia, and the United States placed a $5 million bounty on his head.

In Washington, the former commander of the Cole said he was outraged that the government allowed the man convicted of plotting the attack to escape from a local prison -- for a second time. "Justice with respect to those who attacked the U.S.S. Cole is not being served," said Cmdr. Kirk S. Lippold, in an unusual public complaint by a naval officer. He was in command of the Cole in October 2000 when the destroyer was attacked by Qaeda suicide bombers, killing 17 American sailors.

Acknowledging that he was speaking in an interview without official Navy approval, Commander Lippold called on American leaders to do more to pressure the Yemeni government, and to offer help catching the fugitives.

The breakout comes at a particularly difficult moment for the government, which has been fighting rebel Shiite forces near the Saudi border. Last week, 15 rebels and 5 Yemeni soldiers were killed in the clashes. It also raises the threat level for Americans in the country, with the United States Embassy urging them to "review their personal security practices," particularly for those times when they are neither at home nor at work.

"This is more than embarrassing, this is a disaster," said a Western diplomat in Sana, who spoke on condition of anonymity so as not to embarrass the government. "You can be sure that these men aren't going to go back to being farmers or open convenience stores. They are going to try to get back in the fight."

But Yemenis say cases like that of Mr. Elbaneh -- who has been held here since 2003, and without a reasonable charge, they say -- is one reason many sympathize with the escapees. Diplomats said Mr. Elbaneh had been arrested for "financial" crimes, in addition to the warrant by the United States. Yemen's Constitution forbids the government from extraditing him to the United States, said Khaled Saleh Alanesi, a human rights lawyer who represents Mr. Elbaneh and at least one other fugitive. "You won't hear anybody criticizing their escape because their arrests were illegal," Mr. Alanesi said. "After all, who do you think most people sympathize with, the government, or the ones who appear to have gotten away from an unjust imprisonment?"

As men gathered Wednesday for the daily ritual of chewing khat, a leaf chewed by many Yemenis as a mild stimulant, the men, who asked that that their names not be used for fear of retribution, debated the implications of the breakout.

While many expressed sympathy, a heavy-set man who led a political party here added a degree of skepticism. "Most of these guys were old friends of the political security service," he said, speaking of the 1980's, when the security services organized groups of Yemenis to fight in Afghanistan. "You can bet these men were sure that they were going to get out of the prison when they got there."
263 2006-02-16 President Evo Morales, who this week was reappointed to lead the coca growers federation that he rode to political prominence, said American antidrug officials were welcome to remain in the country. Coca farmers have demanded that the agents be ex...
264 2006-02-16 MOSCOW, Feb. 15 - Russian government officials said Wednesday that they were in talks with the country's large oil companies to restore a cap on gasoline prices here.

In September, the oil companies made an agreement with the government to freeze gasoline prices at their current levels until the end of the year. Since then, some companies have kept to the deal, while others have raised prices at the pump.

Now the government wants to reintroduce the moratorium. German O. Gref, Russia's economy minister, said Wednesday that "it is necessary to urgently resume work with oil companies to ensure a moderate pace of growth of prices for petroleum products in 2006," the Interfax news agency reported. A spokeswoman, Svetlana R. Suleimanova, confirmed that the ministry and an antimonopoly agency were in talks to restore the price cap.

While gasoline prices swoop and dive on markets in Western Europe and the United States, they have remained mostly on an even keel in Russia. Analysts say this is a result of government control, though the Kremlin has portrayed it as voluntary on the part of the oil companies.

The talks suggest Russian officials are worried about inflation, a stubbornly high 10.9 percent last year, though analysts believe the price rises are overwhelmingly driven by a tide of returning oil revenues. The gasoline pact is seen mostly as a populist measure to appease drivers angered by prices at the pump.
265 2006-02-16 "Reading Hemingway is to listen to him, to 'hear' the dialogue," said Patrick Hemingway, the author's son, who joined yesterday with Simon & Schuster to announce that audiobook versions of major novels by Ernest Hemingway, right, would be sold to the general public for the first time beginning in May. The first three titles, "A Farewell to Arms," "For Whom the Bell Tolls" and "The Old Man and the Sea" will be released in May on CD and in downloadable format. (Simon & Schuster is waiting for contracts to be signed before announcing the readers.) One or more titles are then to be released monthly through January. Previous spoken-word editions of Hemingway's major works, which are published by Scribner, a division of Simon & Schuster, were available for libraries but not for sale to the public. Simon & Schuster Audio previously released three volumes of Hemingway short stories (read by Stacy Keach) and an audio version of the posthumous "True at First Light: A Fictional Memoir" (read by Brian Dennehy). EDWARD WYATT
266 2006-02-16 A $36 million wrongful conviction lawsuit filed on behalf of a Wisconsin man who was charged with murder last year after having served 18 years for a sexual assault he did not commit has been dismissed. The man, Steven Avery, 43, will receive a $4...
267 2006-02-16 Here's one tactic the befuddled Democrats haven't yet tried: translating the party platform into rap routines. Make the midterm elections a Def Democrats Jam! It's a long shot, sure, but what have they got to lose?

Credit Brian Dykstra's new play at the 59E59 Theaters, "Clean Alternatives," with suggesting this alternative approach to getting out the message, which may bring to mind a similar turn of plot in the Warren Beatty movie "Bulworth." In Mr. Dykstra's talky, improbable comedy, a businesswoman turned environmental advocate takes on a pollutant-spreading megacorporation, and the government, by setting her rants to rhyme.

"Clear skies? Clean Air Act? They're lies," she fumes in a monologue that opens the second act. "Not fact. Not here, not nearly. Clearly fear, steering tearing mean eyes to dry out dying unclean streams. With no plan. No means. Not here. Not next year. Or next. That's wrecked. That's clear."

This unlikely mode of political discourse isn't the only oddity in "Clean Alternatives." The play also depicts the moral transformation of a rapacious lawyer into a love-smitten puppy dog ready to fight the good fight. Call it a fairy tale for our time.

Mr. Dykstra stars alongside Mark Boyett as a pair of hired guns commissioned to bully the owner of an environmentally sound but money-losing factory into agreeing to a deal favorable to their client. She gets enough money to stay afloat if she'll sign over to the big bad corporation her rights to spew pollutants into the atmosphere.
268 2006-02-16 An extensive dog hunt was begun yesterday at Kennedy International Airport when a prize-winning whippet from the Westminster Kennel Club show escaped from her cage yesterday afternoon, officials of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey said.

As of last night, a helicopter and police officers had not yet found the dog on the 4,900-acre airport complex or in the adjoining marshland. The dog, whose full name is Bohem C'est La Vie but is also known as Vivy, disappeared around noon from the cargo area of Delta Air Lines as she was being loaded onto a flight to return to California with her owners.

It was not known how Vivy slipped out of her cage.

"We are working with the local authorities to retrieve the animal," said Susan West, a Delta spokeswoman, who said she could not comment further because of the company's privacy policy regarding customers.

"They are looking pretty extensively and are working with the dog's owners," said Tiffany Townsend, a spokeswoman for the Port Authority, which oversees the major airports in the New York City area.

Vivy won an award of merit in the whippet category on Tuesday at Westminster's 130th annual dog show at Madison Square Garden.

According to The Canine Chronicle, Vivy is ranked fourth nationwide among whippets, medium-sized dogs that resemble greyhounds and were originally bred by working-class people in England to catch rabbits for food and to race for sport.

According to the Westminster Web site, Vivy was born on April 21, 2002, the daughter of Chelsea Long Kiss Goodnight SC and Bohem All About Eve. She was bred by Bo Bengston of Ojai, Calif. Her owners are listed as Jil Walton and Paul Lepiane.
269 2006-02-16 NASD will unveil today a financial education program it has developed exclusively for members of the armed forces and their families. The effort is part of the financial regulator's response to published reports about military personnel being widely exposed to deceptive and misleading sales pitches for insurance and other financial products.

The plan will be presented at a news conference in the Capitol building with several senior members of Congress in attendance, including Representative Michael G. Oxley, the Ohio Republican who heads the House Financial Services Committee, and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, the New York Democrat who serves on the Senate Armed Services Committee.

The money for the new education effort comes from a multimillion-dollar settlement paid in late 2004 by First Command Financial Planning, a military financial sales company based in Fort Worth. Without admitting or denying wrongdoing, the company agreed to pay $12 million to resolve civil charges by regulators that it used lies and misinformation to sell its financial products to young cadets and officers.

According to NASD, more than $5 million of that settlement has been used to reimburse military customers for excessive sales charges they paid for the high-cost mutual funds sold to them by First Command. (The company stopped selling the funds, called systematic investment plans or contractual plans, just before the regulatory settlement.)

The remaining money was paid into the NASD Investor Education Foundation and earmarked for military financial education.

The program reinforces Pentagon financial literacy efforts that have been stretched thin by the war in Iraq. It will provide training for the military's consumer advisers and will feature on-base events and print, radio and television advertisements.
270 2006-02-16 In an e-mail message yesterday, Ms. Cook-Anderson, who now works as a writer and editor for NASA through a contractor, said, "While I can't discuss these matters, I won't disagree with that description of what took place."

Mr. Mahone has since left NASA. He did not return several calls seeking comment yesterday. Dean Acosta, a political appointee who was then Mr. Mahone's deputy and is now Dr. Griffin's press secretary, said he had never pressed Ms. Cook-Anderson to cut back on news releases. "I was not part of any meeting that would have been party to that," Mr. Acosta said.

But archives of news releases on the NASA headquarters Web site show a sharp change in the number of such releases, to 12 in 2005 from about four dozen in 2004, a figure that had helped lead to the pressure to cut back. (The figures do not count routine announcements of events like satellite launchings.)

Dr. Griffin announced the review of communications policies after complaints last month by James E. Hansen, the agency's top climate scientist, that political appointees were trying to stop him from speaking out on global warming. After those complaints were reported in The Times, other scientists and press officers came forward with similar stories.

In a more recent example of possible political pressure at the agency, press officers and scientists cited an e-mail message sent last July from NASA's headquarters to its Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif. It said a Web presentation describing the uncontroversial finding that Earth was a "warming planet" could not use the phrase "global warming." It is "standard practice," the message went on, to use the phrase "climate change."

NASA officials said the intent was to use the most general term to describe climate fluctuations. But other public affairs workers and some scientists at the agency called it an effort to avoid mentioning that global temperatures are rising.

The e-mail message was written by Erica Hupp, a civil servant at headquarters. She did not reply to several requests for comment, but several people who work with her, and others who preceded her in managing earth-science news in the office, said this was a standing unwritten order from political appointees in public affairs.

"There was this general understanding that when something in this field was written about that it was to be described as climate change and not global warming," said Elvia H. Thompson, who recently retired from the same office.

Some efforts to delay or alter news releases on earth science involving the Jet Propulsion Laboratory were reported last fall by Rosemary Sullivant, a writer working for NASA, to an ethics group at the laboratory and to David Baltimore, the president of the California Institute of Technology, which manages the laboratory.

Ms. Sullivant declined to discuss the matter, but yesterday, Charles Elachi, the director of the laboratory, said he and Dr. Baltimore had conferred about the complaints and determined that while such activities had occurred, there was no evidence they were still going on.

Dr. Elachi added that he had told public affairs officials at the laboratory that he wanted to know immediately about any future efforts to influence the tenor of science findings.

"I will contact headquarters and tell them that that will be an issue," he said.

The recent accusations of political interference appear to reflect an intensifying debate between a small but influential cluster of presidential appointees at NASA headquarters and longtime civil servants and career scientists dispersed at space agency research hubs around the country.

"The issue is where does science end and policy begin," said David Goldston, chief of staff to Representative Sherwood Boehlert, chairman of the House Science Committee.

The subject is likely to come up today at a NASA budget hearing before the Science Committee.

A central point of division within NASA is how much "openness" is appropriate when such expressions conflict with administration policy.

Last Thursday, in comments at the National Space Club in Washington, Dr. Griffin said the agency must ensure that its scientists can speak freely on the implications of their work for policy -- as long as they do not imply they are representing NASA.

Answering a question, he described a divide within the agency between those seeking "to enforce a line between what's true and what to do about what's true" and experts at NASA with strong personal views.

"Some folks don't wish to observe that line," he said, according to a transcript provided by a NASA official. "And if they don't, as long as people speak as private citizens, my attitude is, let me hold your coat for you. You can get into that fray and get beat up. You just can't label it as an agency position."

David R. Mould, NASA's assistant administrator for public affairs and a political appointee, said none of the appointees had brought a political agenda to the agency.

"We've received no marching orders from anyone," Mr. Mould said.
271 2006-02-17 The Bagger was speaking in Rochester, N.Y., and the flight back was just long enough to accommodate an episode of the American version of "The Office." The episode, from season one, was called "Office Olympics" and had the Bagger making funny nois...
272 2006-02-17 The Postal Service said it would reissue last year's stamp commemorating President Ronald Reagan with a value of 39 cents, the first-class letter rate that went into effect Jan. 8. The service also said recently that it would do the same for the P...
273 2006-02-17 Savvy moviegoers know that the early part of the year is when big studios turn much of the country's movie theaters into a dump; it's the big-studio equivalent of early spring cleaning or, if you're feeling less charitable because life can seem particularly short when the movies are so bad, throwing out the trash. This week's contribution to our national slag heap and an early candidate for worst film of the year is "Freedomland," an inept, lethally dull drama directed by Joe Roth and written by Richard Price, based on his novel, about a white child who may have gone missing in a New Jersey public housing complex, where the residents are all black.

Samuel L. Jackson plays Lorenzo Council, a detective on the job in the projects when the call comes in. Along with his partner, Boyle (William Forsythe, always a sight for sore eyes), Lorenzo helps keep the peace in a tough neighborhood, where the white working-class town next door seems to pose as much of a threat as the usual social ills, if not more. Neither apparent saint nor evident sinner, Lorenzo soon proves himself a thoroughly lousy cop after he takes charge of a witness, Brenda Martin (Julianne Moore). Having wandered into a hospital at night, her hands slicked with blood, Brenda initially tells a story about being carjacked in the projects by a black man. Then she adds an explosive detail: her 4-year-old, Cody (Marlon Sherman), was asleep in the back seat.

Boom! Lorenzo starts bellowing at Brenda and flailing for his asthma inhaler as the camera starts flopping around like a newly hooked trout. As inexplicable as it is inappropriate, Mr. Jackson's eardrum-rattling delivery can't help but bring to mind Dave Chappelle's lethally funny sendup of the actor's performance style in a phony beer commercial on "Chappelle's Show." In that bit, the comic plays Mr. Jackson dressed in old-fashioned garb à la Samuel Adams and madly engaged, at full roar, with getting restaurant patrons to drink his beer. "Can you stop yelling at me, please?" one customer pleads. "No, I can't stop yelling," the imitation Mr. Jackson replies between expletives. "Cause that's how I talk! You ain't never seen my movies?" Apparently, Mr. Roth has.

Mr. Jackson is certainly capable of doing better, as is Ms. Moore, who here delivers one of the few authentically awful performances of her career. Wildly miscast as a grammatically challenged former drug addict, the actress wanders through much of the movie in a blanked-out daze, pausing only to deliver a morsel of exposition and, in one scene, a soliloquy in which she explains how she ain't done nothing right in her life but had this kid.

It's no wonder that Mr. Price, who shows up for a brief cameo, looks embarrassed. There's more, including a severe-looking Edie Falco as part of a missing-child organization, some implausible dramatic turns and a handful of fine actors -- including Aunjanue Ellis, Anthony Mackie and Clarke Peters -- who all deserve permanent deliverance from the Hollywood ghetto.

"Freedomland" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). There is a fair amount of profanity and some violence.

Directed by Joe Roth; written by Richard Price, based on his novel; director of photography, Anastas Michos; edited by Nick Moore; music by James Newton Howard; production designer, David Wasco; produced by Scott Rudin; released by Columbia Pictures. Running time: 113 minutes.
274 2006-02-17 Over the last few years, real estate speculators looking to make a quick gain also snapped up preconstruction condos in Chicago, Miami and San Diego. With prices rising by more than 20 percent a year, short-term buyers figured that by the time the condos were ready to occupy, they could sell them without ever moving in, clearing thousands of dollars in profits.

But as more speculators look to cash out in recently hot condo markets around the country, some economists say they could put even more downward pressure on prices in those buildings where for-sale listings are swelling. In Miami, at the Jade Residences at Brickell Bay, more than 20 percent of the building's 352 units are on the market. In San Diego, about a third of the 96 units in the Alicante, a condominium that opened last fall, are listed for sale and sellers are already starting to cut asking prices.

In Donald Trump's luxury condos at 120 Riverside Boulevard in Manhattan, owners of more than one-fifth of the building's 250 units are currently marketing their apartments. With so much inventory, said Ilan Bracha, a broker with Prudential Douglas Elliman in New York, "the buyers are coming in, checking the best views and then they negotiate. This is the reality."

While investors made up only 9.5 percent of residential mortgages nationally in the 10 months through October, according to First American Corporation's LoanPerformance, a San Francisco mortgage data firm, the numbers are much higher in places like San Diego, where investors represented 13.5 percent of residential mortgages, and Miami, where they were 16 percent.

Hans Nordby, research strategist at Property and Portfolio Research in Boston, said those numbers underreport the real level of speculation in those markets because many buyers disguise their intentions when they get their mortgages. As those speculators flood the market, he said, they will put pressure on other sellers to cut prices, too. "A rising or sinking tide affects all boats," Mr. Nordby said.

Still, a sell-off in speculative condos is unlikely to start a widespread housing crash, because condos were more overbuilt than single-family homes during the recent boom, said Joseph Gyourko, professor of real estate and finance at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. But weakness in the condo market, he said, "is a consistent indicator that the great boom has really ended."

For those buyers who had dreamed of quick riches, the change in the market has come as a sobering lesson. A little over a year ago, Shabana Qureshi, a 26-year-old engineer, put deposits down on two condos in Arlington. "My friends were making hundreds of thousands of dollars off of properties," Ms. Qureshi said. "I just thought I'll take this risk now and not think about it too much, and once the time comes I can either sell it or use it depending on my needs."

She moved into a one-bedroom condo at Clarendon 1021 with hardwood floors, granite kitchen countertops and a heated pool on the roof. But having taken a pay cut with a new job, she can no longer afford the mortgage and maintenance fees, which are almost $3,000 a month.

Last week, she put the condo, for which she paid $438,000, on the market for $470,000 and plans to move into the other condo she bought in Arlington. She is selling the Clarendon condo herself to save on the real estate commission. But even if she gets her asking price, she figures she will break even after closing costs.

Having scrimped to buy at what she said she believed was the peak of the market, Ms. Qureshi said she regretted her investments. If she had to do it all over again, she said she would have spent more money on travel and a new car. "I would have been more carefree and invested once I had a family," she said.

In the last few years, speculators were drawn to real estate because of double-digit appreciation. Nationally, median condo prices increased by nearly 13 percent, to $218,200, in 2005, according to the National Association of Realtors. But earlier this month, the group, which is based in Washington, forecast a slowdown in the rate of appreciation, saying that median home prices for all housing types -- single family, townhouses, condominiums and co-ops -- would rise by only 5 percent this year.

Already, the rate of appreciation in some of the hottest markets for speculators has slowed. In San Diego, the median home price (the exact middle of all prices) rose at an annual rate of just 2.5 percent in January, compared with 20 percent a year earlier, according to DataQuick Information Systems, a research firm.

Last week, in a sign of a broader slowdown in the housing market, Toll Brothers, the luxury home builder, said orders for new homes fell by nearly 30 percent in the three months ended Jan. 31. On Monday, KB Homes also said that orders were down significantly and that more buyers were canceling contracts.

At the same time, developers are still building condos in Miami, New York and Chicago, so speculators trying to sell will also have to compete with new units coming on the market.

The slowdown will affect all sellers, of course, but speculators may be more acutely affected if they were expecting speedy profits or are paying mortgage and maintenance costs on empty apartments. In some cases, even if they rent them out, the rents will not cover their costs.

This is not the first time that condo markets have been influenced by investors. In the late 1980's, developers converted thousands of condo units in the Northeast and many of them were bought by speculators, said Karl E. Case, an economist at Wellesley College. Many of those investors, he said, ended up losing money when they sold in the early 1990's. "It was ugly," he said.

More experienced investors take a philosophical view of what they see as inevitable setbacks. R. Dawn Stahl, a lawyer in San Diego who bought two apartments in the Alicante, is now trying to sell both of them.

But in a city where there are about 6,200 condos for sale, up from about 3,100 this time last year, according to the San Diego Association of Realtors, it has been difficult to lure buyers. Ms. Stahl has yet to receive any offers, so she has already lowered her asking price on one of the listings from $650,000 to $599,000.

She paid $499,000 for that two-bedroom apartment and said she believed she would make a small profit after paying commissions and capital gains taxes. But if she cannot sell within a few months, she will rent the apartments out instead.

"I knew thatwas a risk that I took," Ms. Stahl said.

But a reason that a speculative sell-off is not likely to lead to a bursting bubble is that unlike stocks, where investors can panic and sell large volumes in a matter of hours, owners of real estate will only slash prices so far. "People resist and don't sell," said Mr. Case. "It tends to stabilize prices."

A year and a half ago, Erez Abkzer, who owns a window treatment business in New York, signed a contract for a one-bedroom condo facing the river in 120 Riverside for $850,000. "The market was booming and I decided to jump on that wagon," he said.

He closed on the apartment last month and immediately listed it for $1.1 million. He said he would rent the apartment rather than lower his price. "Otherwise it would all be in vain," Mr. Abkzer said. "I won't make money on it."

Some brokers say that speculators have unrealistic profit expectations. "I think a lot of sellers are saying I should make X percent," said Eve Thompson, an agent with Long & Foster in Fairfax, Va. "But your chances of being able to do that are as good as going to Oracle and telling them you want more for your stock."

In Miami, where there appears to be a large overhang of investor properties, sellers are still making profits, said Ron Shuffield, president of Esslinger-Wooten-Maxwell Realtors. But with the inventory of available condos having jumped from about 5,400 listings at the end of December 2004 to about 12,750 now, he said, asking prices have come down in the last three or four months. Mr. Shuffield said he was confident that there would eventually be takers for most of those condos because of the influx of buyers from Latin America and Europe as well as baby boomers from the Northeast.

But some real estate watchers say there is evidence that demand is starting to slacken in Miami. According to Michael Y. Cannon, managing director of Integra Realty Resources-South Florida, a market analyst, the volume of sales of existing condos declined by 9.6 percent in South Florida between 2004 and 2005.

For now, the bumper crop of properties is a boon to buyers. In San Diego, Tom Hinks, a 21-year-old who is looking to buy a condo downtown, has realized he can take his time.

His approach might scare some sellers. Since Mr. Hinks started looking four months ago, he has viewed 30 condos. "I've actually liked quite a few of them," he said. "But every day it seems like the prices are starting to trim down so I don't want to pay too much."
275 2006-02-17 HYDERABAD, India, Feb. 16 - The United Nations envoy for human rights in Nepal, in a report released Thursday, accused both the military and the rebels there of violating international humanitarian law.

The report said the rebels had abducted and assaulted civilians and the Royal Nepalese Army had been guilty of indiscriminate bombings that failed to distinguish between civilian and military targets.

In the report, the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights called on the army to ensure that soldiers guilty of rights violations were not permitted to take part in lucrative United Nations peacekeeping operations.

The report said the office had received accusations that people in army custody had been tortured, including beatings, kicking, electric shocks and sexual assault. It cited a "serious inadequacy of efforts by security forces to investigate and hold accountable those responsible for violations of human rights and international humanitarian law."

The report is submitted to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, which convenes next month and deliberates over whether to impose sanctions on any of its member nations. The government had no comment on the report.
276 2006-02-17 Alan M. Levin, a documentary filmmaker whose work exploring political and social issues won major awards during a long career in television journalism, died on Monday at his home in Maplewood, N.J. He was 79.

Mr. Levin died in his sleep, his son Marc said.

Mr. Levin's work in the television industry began in the 1970's with PBS. He was one of the original news producers at WNET, New York's public television station, and in 1979 produced the Emmy-winning, six-part series "The New Immigrants," about the new wave of non-European immigrants.

He and Bill Moyers worked together on a number of award-winning programs, including "The Secret Government: The Constitution in Crisis," a history of covert C.I.A. operations leading up to the Iran-contra affair. The program won the national Emmy Award for news and documentary in 1988.

Mr. Levin also had a long collaboration with Sheila Nevins, the president of HBO's documentary division. With his son Marc, who is also a filmmaker, and their producing partner, Daphne Pinkerson, he made an HBO documentary "Thug Life," about incarcerated young black men in Washington, that won the 1999 National Emmy for outstanding nonfiction special.

Mr. Levin, a veteran of World War II who grew up in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn, sought to use television as an instrument for social change, his son said.

He was one of the first journalists to report on the rise of America's religious right, with the 1982 film "Portrait of an American Zealot." In 1986, "Inside the Jury Room," his program for the PBS "Frontline" series, captured the first jury deliberation ever recorded for television.
277 2006-02-17 Icahn Is in Negotiations to End His Campaign Against Time Warner  The financier Carl C. Icahn is backing away from his attempt to break Time Warner into pieces -- looking instead to negotiate some smaller changes at the company in exchange for dro...
278 2006-02-17 But at a press conference yesterday, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg disagreed with that account. He said the utility had stopped charging the city for power to that location much earlier, in 1999, an indication that the power had been shut off then.

"One of the things about Con Ed, which is a wonderful company and they have good billing facilities, if there had been, they would have billed us," Mr. Bloomberg said.

City officials could not say last night exactly when the streetlight was removed, but the utility acknowledged yesterday that it was asked to cut off service in March 1999. "Based on our review, this was not done," a spokesman, Chris Olert, said in a statement. "We extend our heartfelt condolences to Barkis's family."

Last summer, the utility agreed to spend nearly $10 million on mobile detectors to inspect for stray voltage throughout its service area as part of a settlement with a state regulatory commission. The settlement followed the 2004 electrocution of Jodie S. Lane, a graduate student who died while walking her two dogs on a wet street in the East Village. The utility later found that a metal service plate Ms. Lane had stepped on had been accidentally electrified because of insufficient insulation.

On Sunday, four people were mildly shocked near the Port Authority bus terminal in Manhattan. Two were hospitalized but not seriously injured. The utility said a frayed cable had energized the cover of a nearby service box.

In a telephone interview, Mr. Olert said engineers were still working to determine what had caused the pavement where Barkis was killed to become electrified. Mr. Kapilian said that Barkis had been walking across a patch of concrete, not a steel plate or a manhole cover, when he was electrocuted.

"All of a sudden, the dog started yelping and jumping," Mr. Kapilian said, "and I thought maybe it was the rock salt on the street. I bent down to clean his paws, but he went crazy, and he started running in circles and gnashing his teeth, and then fell on his side on the edge of the sidewalk and started going into convulsions."

Mr. Olert said engineers were exploring the possibility that water from the melted snow, mixed with street salt, had made the pavement unusually conductive to stray voltage.

Engineers inspected the spot on Jan. 17, he said, and recorded no stray voltage there. Such problems may be intermittent, as street vibrations can shift around power cables and bring frayed ones into and out of contact with the sidewalk or with other pieces of equipment.

Mr. Kapilian said two emergency veterinary technicians who arrived at the scene received shocks when they tried to move Barkis to a stretcher. Despite their efforts, the dog died about an hour later.

"He was sweet, devoted and patient," he said.
279 2006-02-17 A United States District Court judge in Brooklyn dismissed a lawsuit against the United States by Maher Arar, a Syrian-born Canadian detained at Kennedy Airport in 2002, flown to Jordan and delivered to a Syrian prison, where he said he was held f...
280 2006-02-17 The high price charged for Avastin, a drug that has proved moderately effective against colon cancer and is about to be used against breast and lung cancer, seems hard to justify on any ground other than maximum profit for its maker. The pricing scheme planned by Genentech and its majority owner, Roche, is a sign of how the rising cost of new life-extending drugs may affect American health care unless ways are found to mitigate the trend.

As The Times reported on Wednesday, Genentech's pricing for Avastin will drive its cost to $8,800 a month for lung cancer and $7,700 a month for breast cancer, up from the $4,400 cost for colon cancer patients. The manufacturers go beyond the standard argument that high prices are needed to recoup research costs and add a new twist: the price reflects the value of this medicine to society.

That is surely debatable. Avastin, while prized by oncologists as a genuine advance, extends the life of a typical patient with late-stage colon cancer by only five months. The drug will add several months to the lives of patients with late-stage breast and lung cancer, though individual patients may do better or worse.

Those gains seem modest. This is not a miracle drug, bringing huge benefits to society. The high price seems to have been imposed mostly because the companies figured the market would bear it.

Some patients are declining very high-priced drugs rather than making co-payments that can reach $1,000 or more a month. It is a judgment that each patient must make, based on how beneficial the drug is likely to be and how burdensome the cost is. A year of added life of reasonably good quality might be worth a lot to some patients.

The main cost of such drugs, of course, is typically borne by insurance -- Medicare for most of the elderly and private insurance for most others. Drug costs are still a relatively small part of the nation's health bill, but if extra-high prices become common, Congress may need to grant Medicare more power to push them down, and private plans will need to find ways to rein in the spending.
281 2006-02-17 Dubai, surrounded by oil wealth, has already become the booming home of over-the-top hotels, condos, offices and tourist attractions that are attracting billions in investments from its neighbors. But as it ventures further abroad, it is attracting more attention, not all of it positive.

Mr. Sulayem, who put the P.& O. deal together, has a simple explanation for the emirate's success in transforming what was just a sleepy local port two decades ago into a global titan.

"It's the product of 30 years of hard work," Mr. Sulayem said in a interview here at Duke's Hotel, near Buckingham Palace. "We are reaping the benefits of taking chances in investment in our country."

Responding to questions raised earlier this week by Senator Schumer about the P.& O. deal, Mr. Sulayem said, "We are working closely with the Americans."

Mr. Sulayem personally signed on to an American security initiative, he said, that allows Coast Guard officials to examine containers at its ports. Moreover, he noted, American aircraft carriers frequently dock safely in Dubai's own ports.

"We're very active with the States and they are very happy with our cooperation," he said.

DP World, the Dubai port company, said in a statement Thursday that it had received all the necessary approvals from United States regulators, and that it planned to maintain or enhance security arrangements at American ports.

Dubai's economy is very different from that of its Mideast neighbors.

While oil was found in Dubai in the 1970's, its rulers also found that they did not have very much of it. The Maktoum royal family decided to diversify immediately and use the oil profits to turn the state -- about the size of Rhode Island -- into a shipping, tourism and financial center for the region. Success has come from sticking to that plan, Mr. Sulayem said.

"The region has been through many crises," he said. "The one thing that we did that the rest of the region didn't is that we pressed on investing." Today oil revenue accounts for just 6 percent of Dubai's income.

"It was a very well-planned, thorough development strategy," said Simon Williams, a senior economist with the Economist Intelligence Unit in London who specializes in the Middle East.

Dubai has "grown rapidly in a sophisticated and coordinated way," Mr. Williams said.

Deciphering how much Dubai has invested is difficult, because its privately run companies do not make figures available. Some analysts in London estimate that Dubai has invested $100 billion in new projects, but Mr. Sulayem said that may be a bit low.

Overall profit margins and revenue are also not available, but Mr. Sulayem said that every sector in the emirate was enjoying double-digit growth.

Sheik Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, the crown prince of Dubai who became emir when his brother died in January, has been the driving force behind the emirate's push to diversify, Mr. Sulayem said.

"When I was a graduate student," he said of his time at Temple University in Philadelphia, "I happened to be meeting with our ruler," who had decided to start an airline. It was in the early 1980's, and Mr. Sulayem said that "I thought it was a very big mistake."

As it turned out, the sheik was right and Mr. Sulayem was wrong, he said. The Emirates Group of Dubai earned 2.6 billion United Arab Emirates dirham (about $708 million) in its 2004-5 fiscal year, up 48 percent from the year before.

But outsiders say that Mr. Sulayem has played a big role in Dubai's growth.

Mr. Sulayem is one of "three people in Dubai right now who are trusted without a doubt" by the Maktoum family, according to one investment banker who has done deals in Dubai but said he did not want to be identified by name so as not to appear to be publicly flattering Mr. Sulayem. "He's part businessman and part diplomat," the banker said.

Sheik Mohammed, he added, "asks a lot of questions and these three guys go looking for the answers."

Joining Mr. Sulayem in that inner circle are Mohammad al-Abbar, chairman of the Emaar Group, a real estate business, and vice chairman of Dubai Bank; and Mohammad al-Gergawi, chief executive of Dubai Holding, the huge investment company responsible for developing real estate and media businesses in the region.

Like many who work at Dubai Inc., Mr. Sulayem wears many hats. He serves as chairman of DP World, the company that runs Dubai's port and which acquired P.& O. He also serves as executive chairman of Nakheel, the United Arab Emirates property developer that is building a giant palm-shaped man-made island off Dubai to house luxury vacation homes.

And he is executive chairman of Istithmar (Arabic for investment), a private equity fund. In his (presumably scarce) free time, he relaxes by taking part in long-distance horse races and spends time with his eight children.

Bankers and advisers from outside Dubai who have done business in the region say that they sometimes view the three men as competitors, who vie to top each other by doing more spectacular deals and creating bigger real estate projects. Mr. Sulayem acknowledges there is some competition.

"Dubai is like someone who owns many horses," he said. "He doesn't just put one horse in the race, he puts many with many chances of success."

Dubai's fans warn that its double-digit growth could be cut short by a drop in oil prices. "Dubai presents itself as a nonoil economy, but it is very much riding the oil boom," said Mr. Williams of the Economist Intelligence Unit.

Whatever the future holds, Mr. Sulayem still has plenty of partners.

"Dubai has truly established itself," said Greg Norman, the Australian golfer turned entrepreneur, in an e-mailed response to questions. Mr. Norman is designing three golf courses for Nakheel, the real estate company that Mr. Sulayem runs.

"The strategic future for Dubai," Mr. Norman said, "is that of tourism and a destination for international business."
282 2006-02-17 And this year, perhaps more easily than ever before, the foreign film nominees are available to see. All five will have arrived in New York and Los Angeles by the end of next month, gradually opening around the country soon after. Even if they don't turn up at the local mall, they will become available on DVD.

The themes of war and of blighted childhoods are fraught with the risk of preachiness, but the best of the nominated films, "Paradise Now" and "Tsotsi," thoughtfully consider these issues instead of bashing viewers with didactic answers. "Paradise Now" never names the political group that the suicide bombers are part of, but their mission in Tel Aviv is to avenge the killing of one of its heroes. The Israelis in "Munich" are also engaged in retaliation, for the assassination of their Olympic athletes by Palestinians. The two films together may say more about the cycle of Middle East violence than either does alone.

There is even some dispute about what to call the provenance of "Paradise Now." Leaping into treacherous political waters, the Academy's official Web site says the film is from Palestine, which has resulted in complaints that no such country exists; now the Academy is reconsidering its terminology. Bruce Davis, the executive director of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, said in a phone interview that while a decision had not been made, "I suspect that on Oscar night you'll be hearing the words 'Palestinian territories' " when the nominations are read.

Whatever is decided, the dispute shouldn't distract from the film. With grippingly realistic, no-frills moviemaking, "Paradise Now" doesn't glorify the bombers; it turns on the question of whether they'll go through with the mission. Tackling a crucial subject from a perspective rarely seen in the United States, the movie is first of all suspenseful.

It is also still running in New York and Los Angeles almost four months after opening. "Tsotsi" may have a similar potential to reach an audience that sees it simply as a movie, not some foreign object. When a petty criminal raised on the streets, called Tsotsi -- a nickname that means thug -- carjacks a BMW, he finds a baby in the backseat. For days, Tsotsi tries to care for the child, carrying him around in a shopping bag. Poignant though that image is, the film eventually takes some unsentimental turns.

Based on a novel by Athol Fugard and updated from the 1950's to post-apartheid South Africa, the film becomes more about class than race. Tsotsi kidnaps the child from a well-off black couple living in an alarmed and gated house. Like "City of God," set in the slums of Brazil, "Tsotsi" has the flavor of its native country yet depicts social problems that are recognizable everywhere.

Like this year's American best-picture nominees, the foreign film contenders are not exactly cheerful. What does it tell you when the most upbeat film is a World War I movie? "Joyeux Noël" dramatizes a familiar historical event: the Christmas truce called by French, German and British soldiers on the front line. The film's true subject is not World War I, though. Its message is that ordinary soldiers on all sides become pawns of their political leaders.

Like "Joyeux Noël," which has some dialogue in English and German as well as in French, many of the nominees reach across more than one country. In "Don't Tell," the young woman in Rome who is disturbed by the gaps in her childhood memories travels to Charlottesville, Va., to talk to her older brother. This increasingly global landscape -- with many foreign films co-produced by more than one country -- reflects a world linked by instant communications, in which issues like childhood abuse and its psychological scars are without national borders.

The least surprising choice among the nominees may be the earnest "Sophie Scholl." But then the Oscar nominees have never represented the best foreign films out there, just the best that have made it through the Academy's maze of regulations. Each country gets to submit one film, and if a country chooses not to -- Spain didn't submit two recent Pedro Almodóvar films that are among his best, "Talk to Her" and "Bad Education" -- there is nothing anyone can do about it.

One of this year's strongest foreign films, "Caché" (Hidden), was disqualified. Its director, Michael Haneke, is Austrian, and Austria submitted it. But this haunting story of a Parisian family stalked by someone videotaping them is in French; the rules say the film has to be predominantly in the language of the country that submits it.

Fifty-four countries submitted films this year, and from that list an Academy committee of about 400 members selected the nominees. What could those people have been thinking when they passed over the Belgian submission, the extraordinary "L'Enfant" (The Child), by Jean-Pierre and Luc Dardenne? This depiction of a callous young man who lives on the streets and suddenly finds himself a father -- and what happens to the child -- is among the Dardenne brothers' most eloquent works, stirring and immediate, with unexpected sympathy for the hapless father. Tougher than most of the nominees and without a trace of sentimentality (maybe that's what bothered the committee), it would deserve to win if only it were in the race.

But then second-guessing the Oscars is part of the fun in any category, and it makes sense to add foreign films to the mix. We all read news crawls while watching television; why not subtitles?

Where or When

Here is information about where and when to see the films mentioned in the Critic's Notebook.

CACHÉ (HIDDEN) -- Now playing across the country.

DON'T TELL -- Opens March 17 in New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco.

JOYEUX NOËL (MERRY CHRISTMAS) -- Opens March 3 in New York and Los Angeles. Wider release in mid-April.

L'ENFANT (THE CHILD) -- Opens March 24 in New York and Los Angeles. Wider release on April 7.

PARADISE NOW -- Playing across the country. In Manhattan, Sunshine Cinema, 143 East Houston Street, East Village. Will be released on DVD on March 21.

SOPHIE SCHOLL: THE FINAL DAYS -- Opens today in New York (review, Page 1). Wider release next Friday.

TSOTSI -- Opens next Friday in New York and Los Angeles. Wider release on March 10.
283 2006-02-17 JERUSALEM, Feb. 16 - The militant group Hamas on Thursday appeared poised to name its candidate for Palestinian prime minister, while Israel's Defense Ministry drew up sanctions likely to be imposed after the new Palestinian parliament dominated by Hamas is sworn in on Saturday.

Hamas plans to nominate Ismail Haniya, viewed as one of its less radical leaders, for prime minister, The Associated Press reported, citing a Hamas official in Damascus. Mr. Haniya, speaking in Gaza City, told Reuters that no final decision had been made. But other Hamas officials, who did not want to be identified because the decision was not yet official, said they expected his nomination to be formalized on Friday or Saturday.

The new Palestinian government, with a prime minister and a cabinet in place, still appears to be at least a couple of weeks away. But the Israeli foreign minister, Tzipi Livni, said the "rules of the game" would begin to change once the Palestinian parliament took office.

Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz held talks about possible restrictions to be imposed to reduce Israel's already limited contact with the Palestinians. The measures would include preventing Palestinian workers from entering Israel and making it even more difficult for Palestinians and their goods to move between the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.

Israel also refined its position on financial aid for the Palestinians. Funds channeled through private aid groups will be permitted, but Israel will oppose the provision of money directly to the Palestinian Authority, Israeli officials said. "Israel will not transfer money to a terrorist authority," Ms. Livni told Israel radio. But she added, "We have to look at things logically and decide how to differentiate between a terrorist authority and causing a humanitarian crisis."
284 2006-02-17 After the hearing, Dr. Griffin told reporters that "certain individuals have done things they shouldn't have" but that he doubted there was a widespread practice of muzzling NASA scientists or misrepresenting science.

He added that agency employees needed to feel free to speak out and that NASA was particularly concerned about openness because in the wake of the space shuttle disasters of 1986 and 2003, "people said certain views" had not been listened to beforehand.

Dr. Griffin said his review should be completed, and a new policy put in place, "in the next few weeks."

Two efforts aimed at change are under way. Shana Dale, the deputy administrator, established a group of 12 NASA scientists, administrators and public affairs employees on Wednesday to recommend provisions of a policy to replace the existing one, which dates from 1987 and is largely unknown within the agency. And other senior administrators, several officials said, are reviewing reports of communications trouble that are flowing from NASA's research centers around the nation.

Franco Einaudi, director of the Earth-Sun Exploration Division at the agency's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md., said some of the problems reported by scientists or staff members were simply cases of public affairs officers' getting the science wrong.

"Communication needs a lot of cooperation," Dr. Einaudi said. "Generally scientists don't know how to write and public affairs people don't know the science."

But in some cases, he said, changes have been made in which "it is clear that the motivation is not just to make the English better." He declined to discuss those incidents because the review had just begun.

In an interview, David R. Mould, the assistant administrator for public affairs, defended the agency's handling of news releases and the media, saying his goal was to keep it free of spin of any sort.

"I wouldn't want anyone's political agenda to be associated with NASA publications," Mr. Mould said.

But many NASA scientists and public affairs workers have said they have felt far more influence on the flow of information than their predecessors did during the Clinton administration.

Paul C. Light, a professor at the Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service at New York University, who is an expert on political appointees, said the issues surfacing at NASA were a result of a general ballooning of political influence in government public affairs offices over the last decade, "with a particular acceleration under Bush."

"The units are focusing heavily on editing, spinning, doctoring just about anything that leaves their agencies via reports, interviews, Congressional testimony," he said.

But Robert E. Moffitt of the Heritage Foundation, co-author of a 2001 paper that called on the Bush administration to increase political appointments in influential offices within government agencies, said public affairs offices were ideal places for people hired to promote an administration's worldview.

"Better to have them in a public affairs office, where they can speak for the president, than, for example, servicing the space shuttle," he said.

James E. Hansen, the NASA climate scientist who was the first to complain of restrictions on his speaking and news media contacts, said that Dr. Griffin's recent statements were encouraging but that the political appointees at headquarters might not yet have gotten the message.

"The administrator has it exactly right," Dr. Hansen said. "We live in a free country and work for the taxpayer. We should provide useful information, not propaganda. But based on their recent remarks, public affairs still doesn't get it."
285 2006-02-17 A man convicted 20 years ago in one of organized crime's most infamous assassinations was charged again yesterday with murder and racketeering.

This time, the mob figure, Anthony Indelicato, 58, of Howard Beach, Queens, is accused of plotting to kill a rival by masquerading as a police officer.

Mr. Indelicato is identified by prosecutors as a soldier in the Bonanno crime family. He was charged along with a Bronx man they say is the family's newly minted acting boss, Michael Mancuso, 52.

The two men were added yesterday to an indictment that already charges the crime family's previous provisional leader, Vincent Basciano, with killing another mob figure.

That case is expected to go to trial next year in United States District Court in Brooklyn. Mr. Mancuso and Mr. Basciano, who is known as Vinny Gorgeous because he used to own a beauty salon called Hello Gorgeous, are both eligible for the death penalty. Mr. Indelicato faces life in prison.
286 2006-02-17 Russia, eager to make the biggest splash possible, will float shares in the state oil company Rosneft on foreign and domestic stock exchanges simultaneously, the country's top securities regulator, Oleg Vyugin, said at a news conference. Rosneft h...
287 2006-02-17 "We are excited to participate in Amazon's launch," said Greg Scholl, the chief executive of the Orchard, the largest digital distributor of independent music. The Orchard, he said, has not reached a final agreement to provide music to Amazon's service. "Given the quality of Amazon and its team, I'm sure it will be an innovative and successful music product," he said.

Mr. Scholl declined to discuss any details of his negotiations with Amazon.

In a conference call with investors last month, Thomas J. Szkutak, Amazon's chief financial officer, highlighted digital media as a major area of growth. "As we move forward with digital, we think Amazon is especially well-positioned to capture a bigger part of that business," Mr. Szkutak said.

Patty Smith, an Amazon spokeswoman, declined to elaborate on the company's plans.

Amazon's intention to tie a subscription service to its own music player was reported yesterday by The Wall Street Journal.

Music subscription services have been offered by Napster, AOL, Real Networks and Yahoo for several years, and have attracted about two million customers, industry executives said.

One reason that the subscription services have not fared well is that the experience of using them with portable players is more difficult than using an iPod. The Microsoft software that all these services use has been awkward, and the players -- made by several manufacturers like Samsung, iRiver and Creative Labs -- have not been as appealing to consumers as those made by Apple.

Amazon hopes to remedy these problems by designing its own player in conjunction with a consumer electronics maker, and ensuring that the software works easily with it. The player would be discounted for customers who agreed to buy the music service for a specified period, the music executives said.

Amazon plans to load the player with songs of a customer's choosing before shipping it, the music executives said. And because Amazon maintains records of the CD purchases of its customers, it can also use that information to recommend music to be downloaded onto the players.

The company, in fact, is looking to leverage its role as a major vendor of CD's as it moves into digital music. It has discussed with music labels the possibility of offering discounts to subscribers of its music service on CD purchases.

It has also talked about giving CD purchasers digital versions of the songs, saving them the time and trouble of creating their own digital files to move onto the portable players. Record company executives say that the financial arrangements that underlie these potential discounts have not been finalized. They add that Amazon has said it hopes to introduce the service by summer.

Ross Rubin, the director of industry relations with NPD, said that Amazon's plan to create its own brand of player faced challenges. A similar effort to create a Napster-branded player made by Samsung faltered, he said.

"The branded music player approach hasn't worked because of Apple's considerable iPod marketing and brand power," he said. But he did say that Amazon's customer relationships may give it an edge.

"It's a unique advantage for them," he said.

Correction: February 18, 2006, Saturday An article in Business Day yesterday about plans by Amazon.com to offer a digital music player to challenge the iPod misstated the number of iPods sold last year by Apple Computer. It was 32 million; 14 million was the figure for the fourth quarter.
288 2006-02-18 What is happening in Chad, a Central African country twice the size of France, is an important test of the idea that international institutions like the World Bank can influence governments of poor countries to spend newly tapped riches on their people instead of using the money to further entrench themselves in power.

The proposition is particularly challenging as oil prices surge, because now nations like Chad can attract investors who make few or no demands on how the profits are spent.

High-level talks in Paris to resolve the crisis with Chad ended inconclusively this month, though World Bank officials still hope for a settlement that preserves the government's promise to use its oil money to build schools, clinics and roads rather than to support an army that has recently experienced a rash of defections among rebellious officers.

As a rising tide of oil money flows to poor African countries in the coming years, the bank will have little choice but to grapple with its role.

"It's not clear at all how to get your hands around it," said Paul D. Wolfowitz, who became president of the bank last summer. "But I think to stand back and say the whole thing is a dirty business and we in the World Bank don't want to have anything to do with it is very shortsighted."

Africa is in the midst of an oil boom, with countries that have already struck oil aiming to double production by the end of the decade.

Billions of dollars have been invested in new production capacity, much of it to feed a thirsty American market. The United States already gets about 18 percent of its oil from sub-Saharan Africa, a share that will rise in coming years and could outpace imports from the Persian Gulf, experts say.

But the United States also faces fierce competition for Africa's oil from countries like China, Taiwan, India and Malaysia.

From Angola to Nigeria, Gabon to Sudan, riches from oil have often ended up in the pockets of the ruling elite, inciting conflict over the spoils. In Congo, the off-again-on-again fight over a very similar issue, that vast country's mineral riches, has killed four million people, more than any conflict since World War II. Most died of disease and hunger as wars over diamond and copper mines raged.

Chad has been ranked with Bangladesh at the world's two most corrupt countries by the corruption watchdog Transparency International. The hope that Chad would chart a more humane path fractured when its Parliament voted recently to soften the oil revenue law, allowing the money to be diverted.

"We have our backs against the wall," said Hourmadji Moussa Doumgor, Chad's minister of communications, explaining that the nation was out of money and facing a rebellion from former soldiers seeking to overthrow President Idriss Déby. "We have lived without oil in the past, and we are prepared to do it again to preserve our dignity. And there are other partners we can pursue."

That Chad's government faces a crisis is beyond doubt. Civil servants went on strike for weeks when their salaries were not paid for several months, and retired people have not received their benefits since 2004. The ailing Mr. Déby, president since 1990, is facing an armed rebellion in the east of the country. Some experts say he may believe that he needs money now to buy weapons and the loyalty of restive military officers.

The crisis in Darfur, the region of neighboring Sudan that borders Chad, has also put enormous pressure on Chad, which is now host to 200,000 Sudanese refugees. Complicating matters, Chad and Sudan have accused each other of supporting rebels on each other's soil.

Chad has demanded that the consortium led by Exxon Mobil that built the pipeline begin depositing the oil royalties directly in the country's central bank rather than an account designated in its agreement with the World Bank. Chadian officials said they were prepared to "close the faucets" of the oil pipeline if no settlement was reached.

Exxon, responding to written questions, said only that it hoped that the bank and Chad could address Chad's financial distress while preserving the poverty-reduction framework.

The Exxon-led consortium was willing to build the 665-mile pipeline from landlocked Chad to the sea only with the World Bank's backing, said Rashad Kaldany, director of oil, gas and mining for the bank and its private investment agency, the International Finance Corporation. With Chad's history of civil war, ethnic strife and corruption, its oil lay untapped for decades because no one was willing to put capital at risk here.

In 2000, the bank approved the project and lent Chad $37 million for its stake in the pipeline, while its finance agency lent the companies building the pipeline $100 million. Their support was conditioned on Chad's commitment to adopting a law requiring that most of the oil revenue go to poverty alleviation.

The royalties were to be deposited in an offshore account, and an independent oversight committee was to vet, approve and monitor all spending.

But once the oil revenues began to flow into the government's coffers in 2004, the model program quickly ran into trouble.

"This project could not survive contact with the reality of Chad," said Gilbert Maoundonodji, who runs a Chadian nonprofit group that investigates petroleum spending in the country. "It is the most corrupt country in the world."

The oversight group officially charged with monitoring the oil spending laid out a damning catalog of malfeasance and bungling last May, from overspending on office equipment to bungling or abandoning entire public works projects.

In the town of Moïssala, a water tower was approved, and an advance of $360,000 paid to the builder. But when monitors checked its progress, they found no water tower, and no one in the local government had ever heard of the project.

Many of the wells that were supposed to be dug in rural areas were still unfinished, while others were dug, but not deeply enough. The builders filled them with water from a cistern to try to fool the inspectors, said Thérèse Mekombe, vice president of the oversight panel.

The group found that the Ministry of Higher Education had bought a computer for $5,300, a secretary's chair for $3,600 and scooters that should have cost $1,000 for triple the price. Companies that won contracts to make desks for schools used scrap wood, producing desks with bucked legs and tops.

The Ministry of Health commissioned a clinic in the town of Bierre, but the builder abandoned the site with no explanation.

The largest amount of money -- $51 million through last year -- has been devoted to public works, mainly roads. Of that, $48 million has been assigned to a partnership formed between a foreign construction company and a company led by President Déby's brother, Daoussa Déby, according to the oversight committee.

Government officials say Daoussa Déby's company won contracts though competitive bidding and got so much of the work because few companies have the capacity to complete big projects. Asked about the propriety of a member of the president's family receiving so much money, Mr. Doumgor, the government spokesman, shrugged.

"This is universal," he said. "The ones who have the big fortune, all the money, are those in power. I don't say it's right, but it is the same in every country."

The panel's findings toughened the World Bank's reaction to Chad's insistence that it needed to change the law regulating how it spent the oil money, said Ali Khadr, the bank's director for Chad.

The bank told Chadian officials it was willing to consider amendments to the law, but first wanted Chad to explain its deepening fiscal woes. "They kept saying to us: 'No, no, no, there's no time for that. You're either with us or against us,' " Mr. Khadr said.

Members of the oversight committee and outside watchdog groups say the bank did not do enough to ensure that the monitors had adequate resources.

Mr. Khadr disagreed. For its first three years, the bank and its International Finance Corporation provided $1.3 million to support the oversight committee's operations. The publication of its critical report was itself "pretty good evidence that its capacity, if not ideal, is at least adequate," he said.

But Ms. Mekombe of the oversight committee said that even when the monitors documented problems, their recommendations were often ignored, while officials and companies cited as corrupt were never investigated by the government. "All the work we have done, all the sacrifices we have made, sometimes I think it is all for nothing," she said.

Critics say the bank moved too hastily to move the project to completion before this unstable, corrupt and autocratically-governed country was ready for it. Though aware of the risks, bank managers said they felt that other investors with no stake in poverty reduction would eventually build the pipeline anyway.

Mr. Kaldany, the bank's International Finance Corporation official, pointed out that another oil project just over the border in Sudan had been undertaken by a consortium led by China with no controls on how the government spends the money.

Indeed, as oil prices have soared, even difficult-to-reach fields with low-quality oil like Chad's have become attractive to investors. And as flawed as the reality of Chad's experiment has been, even some of its fiercest critics say they are glad the World Bank is here.

"Without the World Bank, we would be in an even bigger disaster," said Boukinebe Garka, a labor union leader. "Someone else would have built the pipeline, and then we would be in the same situation as Angola or Sudan. At least now we have some control, even if it is not perfect or even very good. It is a start."
289 2006-02-18 CURTISS--Edward I. On Wednesday, February 15, 2006; Beloved husband of Zelda. Beloved father of Laura (Warren) Sutnick and Julie Curtiss. Brother of Alan Curtiss. Grandfather of Michael, Sarah and Emily Sutnick. Services at Ralph Schugar Chapel, I...
290 2006-02-18 CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla., Feb. 17 - Six of the seven astronauts who are to fly the next space shuttle mission made their first joint appearance here on Friday, and the commander said NASA continued on course for a liftoff in May.

"Technically, there's a whole bunch of things going on, and all that has to line up," the commander, Col. Steven W. Lindsey of the Air Force, said in an interview after the astronauts' news conference at the Kennedy Space Center. "We are scheduled for early May, and we're still holding to that schedule."

The mission, by the shuttle Discovery, will be the second since the loss of the Columbia and its crew of seven in February 2003. That disaster was caused by a 1.67-pound piece of insulating foam that broke off the external fuel tank at liftoff and punched a hole in the left wing, causing the shuttle to disintegrate when it re-entered the atmosphere 16 days later.

Last summer, the shuttle program resumed with a 14-day mission by the Discovery to the International Space Station. But despite two years of efforts to repair the foam problem, another piece broke away from a ramp on the fuel tank about two minutes after liftoff. The fleet was again grounded after the Discovery returned.

The space agency has decided to remove foam from that area of the tank and has conducted aerodynamic tests to make sure it can be done without additional risk.
291 2006-02-18 "We feel terrible about this show dog, but honestly, lost dogs are nothing new to us here," Ms. Giordano said yesterday. "In fact, it's the reason we set up here in the first place."

Ms. Giordano's modest shelter has 25 dogs in its care, most of which were found in or around the airport, which she calls something of a catch basin for stray or unwanted dogs. Some, like Vivi, were being shipped and were either found in their crates or wandering around. In such a case, the airline usually puts out urgent notices, and when found, the dog is returned.

But most of Bobbi's strays are picked up in or around airport property with few clues as to how they got there. Many have simply been driven to the airport and abandoned, Ms. Giordano said, and others wander in from nearby neighborhoods and get lost.

"We get Pomeranians, Pekingese, poodles and Chihuahuas, but most of them have one thing in common: They were found on airport property," said Laura Miller, 26, a shelter employee who tended to a three-legged pit bull named Zena on Wednesday night. Every situation is different, she said. Among recently rescued dogs, one was bound for Brazil; another was picked up as it headed toward the Belt Parkway. One was too sick to go on to Las Vegas, and another was dodging traffic on the Van Wyck Expressway.

In December, two Doberman pinschers were found in an unmarked crate on an airport road. Recently, two German shepherds on a layover from Jordan were taken in because they were too sick to continue traveling. Last summer, a schnauzer puppy was left in a crate with a Brazilian address.

"We told the recipients what it would cost to get the dog the shots and papers to pass customs, and they didn't want to pay," she said. The puppy was quickly adopted.

Other stories abound: A beagle with hypothermia dashed from a crate down to the tidal marshlands. Police officers found it, wrapped it in a coat and rushed it to the shelter.

On Wednesday night, Ms. Miller looked in on Kate, a bull terrier found on airport property, and then Bruno, a pit bull found at the shelter's front door one recent morning.

Maxine Rauh, 15, of Queens tended to Sunny, a shepherd mix who was one of three dogs flown up to the shelter after they were separated from their owners in Hurricane Katrina. "But mostly," she said, "we have airport strays. We find them here all the time. Why can't we find this show dog?"

Actually, she adds, the shelter often gets reports of dogs missing from the airport and never hears about them again. One airline put up fliers asking for help in its search for a German shepherd that had escaped from a crate on the runway last summer. It was never found, she said.

"A friendly dog will tend to go towards people for the first couple days it's lost, so those dogs we'll find," said Ms. Miller, 26, of Island Park, who adopted three dogs from the shelter. "But after that, they run off and survival instincts kick in, and they tend to go off and hide."
292 2006-02-18 Asked to explain why she would choose to perform a needlessly risky aerial maneuver in such a crucial situation, Jacobellis, from Stratton, Vt., said: "I just was trying to grab my board on the jump so I could stabilize myself. You're not trying to create style there. You're trying to create stability." She softened her case somewhat during a teleconference two hours later, acknowledging that she was possibly trying to have some fun and may not have made the best choice.

Jacobellis refused to paint herself as a showboat, but it was impossible to argue with the pictures on the big screen. After watching a video replay in the media center, the United States snowboardcross coach, Peter Foley, said: "She definitely tweaked it a little harder than she needed to. If she saw it, she'd say, 'Oh yeah, that's a little much.' "

Although snowboardcross, in which four riders race down the mountain at the same time, does not award style points, participants are still snowboarders, flamboyant and carefree, and they often punctuate victorious runs with fashionable jumps. Jacobellis, a top snowboardcross racer who is also a decorated halfpipe rider, went for the kind of move that captured gold for the American halfpipers Shaun White and Hannah Teter. Her timing, however, could not have been worse.

Late in the final heat, with Jacobellis leading, two of the other three racers had already crashed. The third, Frieden, was so far behind that she had lost sight of Jacobellis. "I was just stoked to have silver," Frieden said.

Foley said that as he watched on television, he was screaming at the monitor: "Keep racing! Keep racing!" When coaches from other countries came up with premature handshakes for his assistant, Jeff Archibald, Archibald shouted, "No!"

At the moment of the fall, the Jacobellis family appeared to go silent. Foley grabbed his face in agony. And Frieden, coming around a final turn, recalled yelling, "Whoa!" She quickly flashed back to an X Games race a couple of years ago when she was comfortably in the lead and came out of her crouch before the finish line. Jacobellis, crouching all the way, overcame her at the wire.

But the Olympics are not the X Games, and Jacobellis acknowledged that she was more nervous than usual heading into her last run. In the Visa commercial that stars Jacobellis, her coach tries to calm her nerves by telling her: "You can do this. Don't look at them, look at me. Picture yourself alone on the mountain. Imagine yourself on the medal stand. No one can touch you."

Foley, on the other hand, talked strategy atop the hill. He told Jacobellis to grab her board if she did not feel comfortable with a jump. Jacobellis said she was particularly uneasy about the second-to-last jump of the course.

It is curious, then, that Jacobellis would attempt a trick on the very jump that she was so worried about. "Sometimes it's subconscious, but that was putting on a show," Seth Wescott, who won the men's snowboardcross Thursday, told The Associated Press.

Wescott stood at the bottom of the mountain, wearing his gold medal, as Jacobellis walked away with her head bowed and her shoulders slumped. Jacobellis is Wescott's teammate. But Frieden is his girlfriend. His loyalties were divided.

Conflicts and crashes have come to define the Olympic debut of the snowboardcross. In the final race, Canada's Dominique Maltais careered through a side net and her fellow Canadian Maelle Ricker fell so violently that she had to be taken by helicopter to a trauma center in Turin. But Maltais improbably came back to win the bronze medal and Ricker was released from the hospital Friday night.

While Jacobellis will inevitably be criticized, Foley made the point that performing is as important to snowboarders as winning. Despite all the medals and endorsement deals, snowboarding remains a sport founded on radical risk and a sense of spontaneity.

"If she got caught up in the moment, what are you going to do?" Foley said. "And if people think that's a big deal, they still miss the point of snowboarding."
293 2006-02-18 Now I hear endless talk about pooch problems and training techniques. And what surprises me is that not only are regular obedience classes an option, but so too are personal trainers who come to the house, work with the dog and serve as an on-call therapist for the owner.

This got me thinking: who regulates this industry? Can anyone call herself a dog trainer? If I were to get a dog -- which I'm not (hear that, kids?) -- how would I choose a trainer?

First, I learned, there are no government licensing requirements.

"Now you can take a puppy to puppy class and say, 'That was fun, I'll be a dog trainer,' " said Diane Whitney, president of the Certification Council for Pet Dog Trainers, a nonprofit organization.

Ms. Whitney's group is trying to change that by certifying dog trainers. To be certified, a trainer must meet the following criteria: be at least 18 years old and have a high school diploma or the equivalent; have at least 300 hours of dog training experience within the last five years; have references from a veterinarian, a client and a colleague; and pass a 250-question exam that costs $350 to take.

So far, Ms. Whitney said, about 1,000 trainers have been certified since the organization was established in 2001; they are listed on the Web site www.ccpdt.org.

This means, however, that the vast majority of dog trainers don't have national certification. They may, however, have certification from a dog training school, which is worth asking about when checking out a trainer.

What about dog obedience classes, versus a personal trainer? "In general, going to a class is better than individualized training," according to Dr. Bonnie V. Beaver, past president of the American Veterinary Medical Association and a professor in the college of veterinary medicine at Texas A&M. "It reinforces being around other dogs, and if they don't show appropriate behavior, such as barking at another dog, it can be corrected right away."

But, Dr. Beaver warned, don't just send the dog to school; go with it. Otherwise the dog will learn to obey the trainer, but won't do a thing for you.

"If you don't have time to teach a dog initially, you don't have time for a dog," she said.

Steve Diller, director of the Center for Animal Behavior and Canine Training in Elmsford, N.Y., said it was a good idea to get a dog trained in the presence of other dogs.

"If you just train it in your kitchen, you'll have a highly trained dog in your kitchen," Mr. Diller said.

But classes aren't for everyone. Consider my neighbor Amy Chosky. She got her Westie, Rocky, at 11 weeks old, from a pet store. Rick Ricciardi, a dog trainer who works at the store one day a week, was there. He is also a personal dog trainer, primarily in southern Westchester.

"Rick gave me his card," Amy said. "After two days, I was going crazy. I called him."

Admittedly, Rocky was doing things like urinating in his crate, which was worrisome because animals instinctively are not supposed to soil where they live.

"I needed immediate help or I was going to send him back," Amy said.

Mr. Ricciardi not only helped train Rocky, but also reassured Amy in many phone calls that everything was going to be O.K.

"He's absolutely a therapist as well," she said.

Mr. Ricciardi, who wears a leather jacket emblazoned with "professional dog trainer," and has a license plate that says "K9Treinr," ("a guy in Glen Cove got the 'a' "), estimates that in more than 15 years working full time, he has trained some 700 dogs.

He doesn't come cheap; a package of 10 sessions, each lasting an hour, costs $800, although those can be spread out. And phone calls are free.

In comparison, Mr. Diller's school charges about $350 for a six-week program of one-hour obedience classes.

In choosing a class, Teoti Anderson, president of the Association of Pet Dog Trainers (www.apdt.com), which bills itself as the world's largest organization of pet dog trainers, suggested that the owner attend first without the dog.

"Is the trainer a good communicator? Are the dogs having fun? Dog training doesn't have to be boot camp," Ms. Anderson said. "Get references. Interview like a tutor for a child."

Not surprisingly, there are several schools of thought on training dogs. There are people who use positive reinforcement, such as food and praise, along with negative reinforcement, such as pinch or choke collars or loud noises.

On the other side are those who argue that there is never a need to use negative methods. Indeed, Dr. Beaver said, she doesn't even believe in talking harshly to a dog.

"But I might need to speak sharply to the owner," she said.

Mr. Diller said any dog owner should be suspicious of a trainer who used one method for all animals.

"The personalities of the owner and the dog have to come into play," he said. "It depends on what's effective and what the owner is comfortable with. I can put a pinch collar on, but if I know the owner is going to take it off the minute he's out the door, that's not going to work."

Mr. Ricciardi agreed that classes were a good option, but "a mom with three kids can't do that." Also, he said, many people prefer the one-on-one help.

Susie Fallon said that's why she hired Mr. Ricciardi. She wants her Springer Spaniels, Rudy and Ivy, trained better than her last dog.

"I just want them to come when they're called at all times," Ms. Fallon said. "My last one did it about 80 percent of the time."

Around her Bronxville kitchen were little piles of Cheerios and Coke cans filled with pennies -- rewards and punishments. She said she leaves them out all the time so the training tools can be at her fingertips. Her pockets are also filled with Cheerios.

Mr. Ricciardi worked with Rudy and Ivy, both 4 months old, for almost an hour, complimenting them profusely for staying and sitting. He also lavished praise on Ms. Fallon for following his training techniques exactly.

"I say I teach the dog and train the owner," he said.

Without a client's willing participation, Mr. Ricciardi said, no dog trainer can promise a dog will behave at home.

"The only guarantee I can make," he said, "is that the dog will do it for me."
294 2006-02-18 Even as the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, fired 61 city employees yesterday during what her aides called a restructuring, she moved quickly to fill at least one of those newly vacated positions with a longtime political operative.

Michael P. Keogh will become the Council's new finance director, with primary responsibility for negotiating the city's $50.2 billion budget with the Bloomberg administration, Council aides confirmed.

Mr. Keogh will replace Larian Angelo, the longtime finance director, who was fired along with 17 of her staff members, or roughly 40 percent of the budget department.

Mr. Keogh, a lawyer, worked most recently for the mayor's Office of State Legislative Affairs. He graduated from New York Law School, and previously worked for the Council's finance division, and also for the municipal workers' union, D.C. 37.

His wife, Karen Persichilli Keogh, is a top aide to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and worked for the former Council speaker, Peter F. Vallone.
295 2006-02-18 ENGINEERING VICTORY -- The Olympics figure in two articles in the current issue of Wired, although the focus is on the science behind potential victories. Researchers in Britain spent $89,000 developing a "sensor-laden broom in the hopes of optimizing" the strokes of their curlers. Curling is the sport in which players brush the ice in front of a large sliding stone.

Writes Brett Zarda: "The women's team used an early iteration of the brush prior to winning the gold in 2002."

Elsewhere, the magazine writes about Michael S. Holden, a 67-year-old aerospace engineer who heads the Calspan-University of Buffalo Research Center. He is studying how to reduce drag on skiers, speed skaters and the athletes competing in sledding events.

"He has contributed to seven U.S. gold medals, donating time that would otherwise cost $1,000 an hour at the facility," writes Geoffrey Gagnon. "Two decades of work have rendered him the de facto Team USA physicist."

Mr. Holden keeps his work in perspective. Talking about one group of potential Olympians he has worked with, he says, "if they can't ski, they still end up in the trees -- just a little faster."

COLLABORATIVE CUSTOMERS -- People often point to such things as price, quality or technical shortcomings to explain why new products fail, but the reason is simpler than that, two professors write in The MIT Sloan Management Review.

"The main culprit has been a faulty understanding of customer needs," says Susumu Ogawa of Kobe University in Japan and Frank T. Piller of the TUM Business School in Germany.

Their solution is to incorporate potential customers into product development, an idea that they say is already being followed by companies like Procter & Gamble and Unilever.

Customers would be asked to submit their ideas and vote for company concepts online; concepts that received the most votes would be pursued. Then the company would ask customers for a commitment to buy the product -- perhaps at a discount -- before beginning final development and manufacturing. If there were not enough preorders, the product would be abandoned before major investments in final development, manufacturing and marketing.

The authors contend this process, called collective customer commitment, is more efficient than focus groups that measure whether customers like an idea, not if they will buy a product, and is less expensive than test marketing.

FINAL TAKE -- In its current design issue, Wallpaper names winners in such categories as best glassware (Baccarat) and best watch (Rolex.) But in a move we hopes catches on, it also names products that did not make the grade.

"This year's award for truly unappealing hotel interiors goes to London's Courthouse Hotel, which has a bar sporting three former prison cells and frightening, eclectic furnishings."

The magazine also hated the Rolleiflex MiniDigi camera, which "has a 'film advance' lever, even though there is no film. Form and function passing like ships in the night." PAUL B. BROWN
296 2006-02-18 American International Drops Starr Business, Moving Further From Its Former Chairman  In another move to distance itself from its former chairman, the American International Group said that it had terminated its relationship with the Starr Technic...
297 2006-02-18 It has long been something of a quirk in the grim universe of diabetes: a small number of pregnant women would become temporarily diabetic. With proper care, the consequences were often thought to be mild. The babies were usually healthy. And the ...
298 2006-02-18 "This, without a doubt," said Ebersol, the chairman of NBC Universal Sports and Olympics, "is shaping up as the most competitive night in the history of American television."

Some perspective now from David Poltrack, the president of CBS Vision, the research division of CBS. He said the Thursday night clash would not set a record for four-network viewing. But a precedent may be set.

"It's four very strong franchises going against each other," he said. "That'll make it unique."

He said there were many cases when two top-20 shows went head-to-head, but not four. "You might have gotten a 'Survivor' against a 'Friends' against a World Series game," he said. "But that's three."

Ebersol knows the potency of three strong reality series, starting with "Idol," which occupies the top two positions in the network prime-time race, "Dancing," which is seventh, and "Survivor," which is No. 11.

By virtue of their serialized nature, they cannot take a hiatus during the Olympics. If they did, they would risk outrage from the seriously hooked audience.

Ebersol said he knew several weeks ago that Fox would be using its "American Idol" hammer against the Olympics by adding an episode Thursday, after adding an extra hour to episodes on Tuesday and Wednesday.

"You're talking about the single biggest phenomenon in TV," he said. "And 'Dancing' is the darnedest new hit." Come Feb. 26, the night of the closing ceremony, NBC will once more go up against "Dancing."

This is the kind of turf that Ebersol has not yet played on. For most of his Olympic run since the 1996 Summer Games in Atlanta, his network has been No. 1 in prime time. NBC had "Seinfeld," "Frasier" and "Friends," and "E.R." and the original "Law & Order" were in their heydays.

Four years ago, NBC faced no original top-10 programming during the Salt Lake City Winter Games. In 1998, ABC's "Home Improvement" was the only top-10 show with a new episode facing CBS's Winter Games in Nagano, Japan.

By being perpetually atop the prime-time standings, NBC rarely faced first-run episodes from its competitors during the Olympics. But when fortunes turn and you're the No. 4 network, as NBC is, the Olympics are no reason for the competition to cower behind reruns.

"I command my rivals for being smart enough to believe in their serialized megahits and go up against the Olympics," Ebersol said.

Quite a sporting attitude for an executive who has remained at NBC only because of the Olympics. They are his prized possession. He spends 20 hours a day producing them and has joyfully led missions to ensure that his network rivals can't get their mitts on any Olympic rights until at least 2014.

"What am I supposed to do, jump up and down and whine?" Ebersol said. "If this were 15 years ago, I'd be bemoaning my fate. But I'm in my late 50's, and the realities of life have shown themselves clearly to me."

In November 2004, the plane crash that killed his youngest son, Teddy, also seriously injured him and his son Charlie.

"But don't think I'm not in the control room," he said, "looking for ways to make up for where we lose out to our increased competition."
299 2006-02-18 For instance, The Catholic University of America in Washington and Providence College in Rhode Island, among others, have sent productions of "The Vagina Monologues" off campus, and four other Catholic colleges have canceled the performances. The Georgia Baptist Convention voted late last year to break with Mercer University in Macon, Ga., in part because the school permitted a gay rights group to operate on campus.

For many, the disputes at Notre Dame arise from different ideas about what it means to be Catholic. Those who oppose the events say they contradict the church's core teachings on human sexuality. Others contend that prohibiting events runs counter to a Catholic intellectual tradition of open-mindedness.

"The Catholic Church in many respects is a multicultural place," said Ed Manier, a professor of philosophy, a graduate of Notre Dame and a Catholic. "Practicing Catholics do not hold exactly the same beliefs about how the faith needs to be translated into the public sector, matters of law or even into issues as serious as moral development of children."

Founded largely by religious orders, Catholic universities were originally meant to educate Catholic immigrants and to train workers for Catholic institutions like hospitals and schools. The struggle to balance academic freedom and adherence to church teachings began in earnest after the Second Vatican Council from 1962 to 1965, as many Catholic universities opened further to the secular world and sought to become top-tier schools by hiring more lay faculty members and broadening curriculums.

In 1967, a group of Catholic university presidents, led by the president of Notre Dame, the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, issued the Land-of-Lakes Statement, which said a university could not thrive without institutional autonomy and academic freedom, an idea still disputed by some Catholics.

"There was a real effort to beef up the academic respectability of universities," said Patrick J. Reilly, president of the Cardinal Newman Society, a watchdog group. "Our view is that that went too far, and Catholic colleges strayed from Catholic teaching."

Notre Dame, in South Bend, Ind., has 12,000 students, about 85 percent of them Catholic. Compared with other prestigious Catholic universities like Georgetown University and Boston College, Notre Dame has the reputation of being largely more conservative on thorny social issues, including sexuality, students and faculty members said.

In the last three to four years, the university has received "scores of complaints" about the play and the film festival, said Dennis K. Brown, a spokesman. This year, the Queer Film Festival changed its name to Gay and Lesbian Film: Filmmakers, Narratives, Spectatorships. Mr. Brown said Father Jenkins did not call for the change. Liam Dacey, a recent graduate who founded the festival three years ago, said the university insisted because the old title was deemed celebratory of homosexuality.

The university prohibited "The Vagina Monologues" from fund-raising after it collected $15,000 last year for groups that fight violence against women. The university said the play was an academic event and, as such, was not allowed to raise money. The play's proponents said that the fund-raising was halted because anti-abortion activists complained that the groups involved had given money to support abortion.

Father Jenkins was traveling and answered questions by e-mail. Mr. Brown said the president hoped to articulate his plan for balancing the university's religious and academic missions by the end of the spring semester and that it would include a decision about the sponsorship of the play and the festival.

Father Jenkins has heard from critics on both sides. This month, Bishop John M. D'Arcy of Fort Wayne-South Bend Diocese, called for the university to cancel the play. A new group, United for Free Speech, is asking faculty members and students to sign a petition requesting that the university maintain its openness in sponsoring academic endeavors. It has 3,000 signatures, said Kaitlyn Redfield, 21, an organizer.

The central question is whether the school's sponsorship of the film festival and the play, and similar events, amounts to an endorsement of values at odds with Catholic teaching. Father Jenkins commended "The Vagina Monologues" for trying to reduce violence against women. But he objected to the work's "graphic descriptions" of various sexual experiences.

In his speech last month he said. "These portrayals stand apart from, and indeed in opposition to, the view that human sexuality finds its proper expression in the committed relationship of marriage between a man and a woman that is open to the gift of procreation."

Faculty members whose classes explore sexuality and gender worry that their work might be limited because of the subjects they broach, Professor Manier said. "Sponsorship isn't the same as endorsement," he added. "Sponsorship means an idea can be discussed and performance can be discussed."

Some students said that the understanding of academic freedom at a Catholic university should be different from that at a secular university. "We have our own measures of what's good and what's right," said Nicholas Matich, 22, the politics editor of The Irish Rover, a conservative student newspaper. " 'The Vagina Monologues' is performed everywhere else in the academic world. It doesn't mean Notre Dame should do it, too."

Catholic universities do not move in lockstep on controversial issues, and much depends on campus culture, said Michael J. James, executive vice president of the Association of Catholic Colleges and Universities. Of the 612 American colleges that are staging the play from Feb. 1 to March 8, 35 are Catholic universities, one more than last year, according to V-Day, an anti-violence organization affiliated with the play.

"There are people who say that the play has no place on a Catholic campus," the Rev. Kevin Wildes, president of Loyola University New Orleans, wrote last year in a statement sanctioning the play. "To exclude the play from a Catholic campus is to say either that these women are wrong or that their experience has nothing important to say to us. I would argue that these are voices that a Catholic university must listen to if we are to understand human experience and if we are to be faithful to the one who welcomed all men and women."

Catholic teachings seem to allow divergence on complicated issues like human sexuality. In the last decade, the number of gay and lesbian groups at colleges, including religious ones, has risen steadily, according to gay rights and academic groups. Notre Dame does not have an officially sanctioned group for gay and lesbian students. Many other Catholic institutions do, including 24 of the 28 members of the Association of Jesuit Universities and Colleges, an increase from a decade ago, said the Rev. Charles L. Currie, the association president.

Watching the controversy unfold at Notre Dame is Father Hesburgh, who, though long retired, retains a campus office. He said Father Jenkins's effort to define what Notre Dame stood for was important. But in an interview, Father Hesburgh also said a modern university had to face the crucial issues of the times.

"I think the real test of a great university," he said, "is that you are fair to the opposition and that you get their point of view out there. You engage them. You want to get students' minds working. You don't want mindless Catholics. You want intelligent, successful Catholics."
300 2006-02-19 The Ostrander Ski Hut, an icon of simpler times, offers rest and inspiration to backcountry skiers....
301 2006-02-19 Some of the many of the artists, writers and poets who contributed the bohemian movement in the West Village have been photographed by Michael Sofronski....
302 2006-02-19 Despite worries about inflation that weighed on the stock market Friday, the three main market gauges rose for the week, buoyed by strong earnings reports and the possibility of a big utility merger.     On Friday, the market fell on a government ...
303 2006-02-19 Before the decision was made to demolish the boathouse, the Connecticut Trust for Historic Preservation included it on its list of the state's most important threatened historic places.

Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act requires federally financed projects, like the new bridge, to "avoid, minimize or mitigate any adverse effects on historic properties." But at this point there is little mitigation possible, and the course chosen relates only marginally to historic preservation.

Mark Rolfe, program manager for the project, said that except for a few feet of finials on the northern part of the boathouse, the bridge would clear the 1911 building. But the state needs the boathouse site for staging, he said, and the new bridge would be so close to the Adee's roof that it would make construction difficult, perhaps impossible. Mr. Rolfe said the boathouse is to be taken down sometime this year.

The Connecticut Department of Transportation and the City of New Haven considered moving the boathouse intact to the city's Long Wharf tourist area, but that proved too expensive. Connecticut has instead agreed to pay up to $30 million to build a general replica of the boathouse at the Long Wharf location, salvaging as many elements of the 1911 structure as possible, like the bulldogs, some of the terra cotta decoration and a wooden chimney breast in a lounge on the second floor.

The replica is to be used in connection with nearby boating activities.

The state has also recorded the boathouse for posterity, with seven black and white photographs of the exterior of the historic building.

The rowing program at Yale began in 1843, and by the 1860's Yale's crew team had a simple barnlike boathouse, at the mouth of the Quinnipiac, used by students like George Augustus Adee, class of 1867, who was a particularly devoted oarsman. Yale experimented unsuccessfully with rowing on nearby lakes because New Haven harbor was exposed to strong weather, and the river itself was full of piers and shipping.

Adee, a banker and lawyer, maintained his connection with the "Yale Navy" until his death in 1908. By that time fund-raising was already under way for a new boathouse -- and none too soon.

In February 1909, The New York Times reported that Yale's first practice had been canceled when many floor beams in the existing boathouse were found broken.

The new $100,000 structure, named for Adee, opened in 1911, resting on 500 piles, with space for 50 rowing shells, and a broad boat ramp leading down to the water. At the time, Yale's fleet consisted of two launches, 27 eight-oared shells, five four-oared shells and nine smaller boats.

The building was designed by Peabody & Stearns -- Robert Swain Peabody was Harvard, class of 1866. The Tudor-style multipaned windows and squarish finials set the Adee boathouse well apart from the industrial structures of the workaday harbor.

The same firm had also designed Harvard's 1907 Weld Boathouse, on the Charles River, which has the character of a country mansion in France.

The Yale boathouse was originally surrounded by water, accessible by a small bridge to Forbes Avenue. But later landfill has left only the ramp side open to the sea.

New Haven harbor got worse and worse, especially as ships increased in size. In 1916, Yale decided to move its rowing program to a stretch of the Housatonic River at Derby and relocate the Adee boathouse upriver on barges.

The Times reported that Yale was relieved that "the day is past when a squad of 200 Yale undergraduates will cool their heels lounging around the Adee boathouse day after day" because of rough weather or fog.

But instead of moving the old boathouse, Yale changed its mind and built a new one. The new Derby boathouse opened in 1923, designed by the architect James Gamble Rogers -- class of 1889 -- who produced a tepid, Mediterranean-style structure with a stucco exterior.

Yale kept the Adee boathouse, but used it less and less, and sold it in the 1950's. Until recent years, it was used as an office building.

The project to rebuild Interstate 95 as it winds past New Haven and across the Quinnipiac -- with the new bridge -- is now at ramming speed, with the Adee boathouse dead ahead; the highway's earthen ramp across the water has just been finished, and points directly at the empty structure.

Why was there little controversy about the loss of the boathouse, one of New Haven's most distinctive waterfront structures? Karen Gilvarg, executive director of New Haven's City Plan Department, said that in the 1990's, the initial drawings showed a bridge pylon going right through the building -- so it appeared impossible to preserve the boathouse where it is.

She said preservationists never knew that the bridge plans had been revised to the point that only a few details -- the finials -- would absolutely need to be destroyed. "If we had known," she said, "we probably would have fought to keep it up."
304 2006-02-19 To the Editor:     Your article on Robert M. Greenberg (''Madison Avenue's 30-Second Spot Remover,'' Feb. 12) explains exciting new developments taking place in the advertising world....
305 2006-02-19 Melissa Roxanne Unson Ladines and Eric Mario Galang Mejia were married yesterday in Pasadena, Calif. The Rev. Francis Mendoza, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony at St. Andrew's Catholic Church.

The bride, 28, is a publicity manager in New York for Levi Strauss & Company. She graduated from California State Polytechnic University, Pomona.

She is a daughter of Maria U. Ladines and Dr. Robert E. Ladines of Pasadena. Her father, an internist, has a practice in Pomona, which is managed by the bride's mother.

The bridegroom, 26, is a stock trader in New York for Pax Clearing, a securities-transaction processing division of Merrill Lynch. He is also an owner of Maker's, a pub in New York. He graduated from Columbia.

He is the son of Dr. Fredeswinda Mejia and Dr. Mario Mejia of Wheeling, W.Va. His father, also an internist, has a practice in Martins Ferry, Ohio. The bridegroom's mother, a retired pediatrician, manages her husband's medical office. The bridegroom's parents are on the board of the Tri-State Philippine Medical Association, which is based in Wheeling.
306 2006-02-19 Malissa F. Yung-Grubb and the Rev. Kahli Chad Mootoo were married yesterday at Battery Gardens, a restaurant in Manhattan. The Rev. Ronald L. Ivey, an African Methodist Episcopal minister, officiated.

Mrs. Mootoo, 28, teaches fourth grade at the Lab School for Children at Public School 315 in the Bronx. She graduated from Rhode Island College and earned a master's degree in education from the City College of New York.

Her mother, Malina Yung of Beijing, is the executive director there of the China Charity Federation Children's Fund. The bride's stepfather, Peter Yung, lives in Manhattan.

Mr. Mootoo, 33, is an associate minister at St. Matthew's A.M.E. Church in the Bronx and is a candidate for a Master of Divinity degree from the New York Theological Seminary. He is also the New York State director of affiliate services for the National Black Leadership Commission on AIDS, which promotes public policies to fight the disease. He graduated from the John Jay College of Criminal Justice in Manhattan

His mother, Barbara Elizabeth Nesby of the Bronx, is an elder at the Lord's Church Family Worship Center and also works as a geriatric social worker for the Visiting Nurse Service of New York, both in the Bronx. His father, Carlos Antonio Mootoo of Tampa, Fla., is a senior staff supervisor there of the Agency for Community Treatment Services, which provides prevention, intervention, residential and outpatient services for adolescents and adults with mental health or substance-abuse problems.
307 2006-02-19 To the Editor:     The advertising world needs more change agents like Robert M. Greenberg (''Madison Avenue's 30-Second Spot Remover,'' Feb. 12)....
308 2006-02-19 The additional fees are relatively new. Though they are now typically broken out on credit card statements as foreign currency transaction fees, unless you use a calculator or call your bank you won't know whether your bank is charging you 1 percent, 3 percent or some other percentage.

"The 3 percent charge has been coming into effect over the past year, but a lot of smaller banks and credit unions only charge the 1 percent, and American Express is still at 2 percent," Mr. Perkins said. Depending on how much you plan to charge and how often you travel, it may be worth signing up for cards that charge the lower fee.

Many banks, including large ones like MBNA, now charge an additional 2 percent for foreign transactions on top of the 1 percent charge by Visa or MasterCard. Capital One, however, is traveler-friendly. Not only does Capital One not charge an additional foreign exchange fee, but it also does not even pass along the 1 percent currency conversion charge that Visa and MasterCard charge for all purchases made abroad.

Most travelers don't live by credit cards alone, so when it comes time for getting currency from an A.T.M., make sure you reach for the right piece of plastic. "If you need cash, use a debit card to get money from an A.T.M. instead of a credit card, since the fees are generally much lower," Ms. Openshaw said. "The biggest mistake I see is travelers taking cash from their credit cards, since you get hit with the A.T.M. fee, a cash advance fee and the currency exchange fee. A $1,000 withdrawal from a credit card account can easily end up costing another $50 to $100 if you're not careful."

Using a debit card to withdraw money from one of your bank accounts will typically incur only a currency exchange fee and perhaps an A.T.M. fee. But you should check if your bank has partnerships with foreign banks or A.T.M. networks that will reduce the cost of withdrawals and eliminate additional fees.

For example, Mr. Perkins said, "With a checking account at Bank of America you can have no fee withdrawals from a handful of major oversees banks, such as Barclays in United Kingdom or Deutsche Bank in Germany, that are part of their global A.T.M. alliance. Or if you have a checking account with Citibank, you can get no-fee withdrawals from Citibank A.T.M.'s throughout the world."

If you're using a debit card to get cash from an A.T.M., make sure your debit card is linked to the accounts you want to use. "You might also want to unlink your debit card from accounts that you won't need access to before you go, since a thief could do a lot of damage," said Linda Sherry, a spokeswoman for Consumer Action, a nonprofit agency that publishes an annual credit card survey. An alternative can be a prepaid, reloadable cash card not linked to your bank account, like the American Express traveler's check card. Although the card has a one-time $14.95 fee, it is good for three years and travelers can load money onto the card in dollars, euros or pounds. And with a surcharge of 2 percent, they can use the card in a different currency. Withdrawals using the card at A.T.M.'s in the American Express network are $2.50 a transaction, regardless of the amount.

But transaction fees aren't the only concerns, as credit card companies and banks are cracking down more aggressively on fraud. While that may sound reassuring, it might end up being upsetting: charges suddenly coming from a foreign country can set off alarms at your bank.

Without some notification on your part, you could wind up in an awkward (or at least bothersome) situation at a hotel or restaurant in a foreign country with your credit card charges declined. "Using credit cards while traveling can put you on a high fraud alert, so that after you make a few transactions your card may be denied and you will have to call the bank," Ms. Openshaw said. "You could end up in a situation where you can't use your credit card at all."

To avoid this, it's important to call your credit (and debit) card companies and let them know when and where you're going on vacation. That way their fraud detection procedures won't be triggered, or if they are, your plans will already have been recorded. "It doesn't hurt to call both your bank and credit card companies to tell them that you're going to Greece or will be out of the country between certain dates so they won't shut you down," Mr. McNaull of AAA said. "Technology is allowing them to track charges more aggressively, so it's possible that an international shopping spree may create a fraud alert and they will deny legitimate charges."

Making sure you've armed your wallet with the most cost-effective array of credit and debit cards takes a little work before the trip. "Be prepared for some runaround when trying to find out the fees for foreign transactions," Ms. Sherry of Consumer Action said. "A lot of representatives don't have a clue, so you have to be persistent."

Of course, regardless of how much homework you've done or how many pieces of plastic you carry, it's always smart to have options, she added. "Make sure you have a backup position too. Just put a couple of $100 bills in your wallet, because currency is a good way to protect yourself. If you need money, you can almost always go to an exchange bureau."
309 2006-02-19 The hiring record for general managers has been worse. Since Williams became general manager of the Chicago White Sox on Oct. 24, 2000, teams have named 26 general managers, including 9 this winter if the Red Sox maneuvers are included, which they should be.

After Theo Epstein walked off the job, the Red Sox named Jed Hoyer and Ben Cherington co-general managers, then replaced them with Epstein when he decided to return.

Of the 26 post-Williams general managers, only 2 have been minority candidates, and they were the same person -- Minaya, first with the Montreal Expos, then with the Mets.

At last November's annual general managers' meetings, Solomon addressed the matter.

"The demographic of that meeting was pretty predictable," Solomon said. "When I went to my first general managers' meetings in 1991, the demographics were not much different than they are today."

The key to making blacks and Hispanics general managers is hiring them in the first place for lesser positions and letting them advance. Except for Epstein and Pat Gillick of Philadelphia, who is with his fourth team as general manager, this spring's new general managers had been assistants and were in a position to be interviewed for the top job.

"The diversity isn't there," Solomon said. "To have opportunities to get general managers' jobs, you need diversity at levels below general manager. A lot of the young guys were in the pipeline. They had the opportunity to work with others in the pipeline. If diverse candidates don't get that same opportunity early on, they won't get the opportunity later on."

Solomon explained that reality to the general managers in November.

"I used the White Sox as an example," he said. "They are a very successful diversity model. I went on to say diversity will be highlighted even more when we take our game global. I thought it was time we recognize that this is a very diverse world we live in."

Increasing the number of minority executives is good for business, Solomon added. "If we're going to expect to get fans from diverse backgrounds and create dollars from a diverse fan base," he said, "we're going to have to reflect that diversity in our structure."

Baseball has "some very talented guys in the pipeline" who are getting needed experience, Solomon said, "but we need more."

Kevin Brown pitched in successive World Series -- in 1997 with Florida and in 1998 with San Diego -- then signed a seven-year, $105 million contract with the Los Angeles Dodgers. Baseball life would never be the same.

The contract completed, Brown, who will turn 41 next month, has concluded that life. His career is over.

"Kevin didn't have me pursue any teams because he wanted to see how his health was," his agent, Scott Boras, said. "He decided after the painful process last year he was not going to play. His arm is still remarkably good, but it's about his back. He had to endure a lot to throw last year."

Brown's back strains limited him to 13 starts with the Yankees last season, sent him to the disabled list three times and ended his season July 23. He finished his career with a 211-144 record.

Roger McDowell was part of one of the worst trades the Mets ever made. He and Lenny Dykstra went to Philadelphia for Juan Samuel on June 18, 1989. The Mets made the trade because Davey Johnson, then the manager, wanted it.

"Davey lost confidence in me, and rightfully so," McDowell said. "I stunk. I didn't pitch well early that year and was banished to mop-up."

McDowell, however, pitched another seven and a half seasons, relieving effectively in some of them. Now he has a new job. He is the pitching coach of the Mets' chief division competition, the Braves. He replaces Leo Mazzone, who left after 16 years to go to Baltimore.

"I love Leo; I am a huge admirer of Leo Mazzone," McDowell said. "The success the Atlanta pitching staff attained under his guidance is second to none."

McDowell took an unlikely route to be Mazzone's successor.

"After I retired in '96, I just wanted to spend some time at home," McDowell related. "I really didn't envision getting into coaching. But after spending a couple of summers at home, it was boring and I really missed the game."

Jim Gott, a former teammate, was doing community relations work for the Dodgers and suggested that McDowell join him.

"That's what I did for a year and a half," McDowell said, "and I found out that wasn't enough. I wanted to be back on the field. I couldn't do without the competition."

Was it possible, he was asked, that his wife, Gloria, decided that she could do without him being home all the time?

"It very well could have been," he said, laughing. "I won't discount that theory."

Throughout their unparalleled run of 14 consecutive division championships, the Braves have remarkably been unable to find a consistently effective closer. They had Mark Wohlers, but he did not last long. In desperation, they switched John Smoltz from starting to closing, and he was terrific.

But last year they uncharacteristically encountered a shortage of starters, traded for Dan Kolb to be their closer and put Smoltz back in the rotation. Kolb failed, requiring them to try Chris Reitsma and Kyle Farnsworth. They would have been happy this year using Farnsworth, who had 10 saves in 10 chances, but he signed with the Yankees as a free agent. Now they begin anew in their search for a closer.

"Yes," General Manager John Schuerholz said, "our intention is to have a closer. We're confident we'll have someone do that for us. We just don't know who it will be."

Is that person likely to come from the team? "Probably," Schuerholz said. "To think we could make a deal for a bona fide closer isn't reasonable."

The early prime candidates are Reitsma, who squandered 9 saves in 24 chances last season; Joey Devine, the team's top draft choice last summer, and Oscar Villarreal, who "before his arm was pitched into mush by overuse in Arizona had an electric arm."

Other candidates are Macay McBride, a first-round draft pick in 2001, and Brad Baker, signed as a minor league free agent. Devine and McBride spent some time with the Braves last season. Villarreal pitched in 86 games as a rookie in 2003, but has pitched in only 28 games since because of his elbow, which required surgery.

Manager Bobby Cox, Schuerholz said, "feels more strongly than I that we're going to find someone in our uniform who will do the job."

He never tested positive for steroids use, but the ostensibly retired Sammy Sosa will take his place in baseball history as a symbol of the steroids era.

After never having hit more than 40 home runs in a season, Sosa slugged more than 60 three times, the only player to do that, and averaged nearly 60 -- 58.4 -- in a five-season stretch. It should be noted that it was a noticeably larger-sized Sosa who hit those home runs.

Once baseball began testing for steroids, Sosa's size and his home run total were quickly deflated.
310 2006-02-19 Inside the coat closet near the front door, he opens a safe built into the wall, gets out his Smith & Wesson .357, Model 340, internal hammer, or "hammerless," so it doesn't get snagged on clothing, and constructed of a titanium-and-aluminum alloy, so lightweight it feels like a toy. He tucks the revolver into a pocket and walks into the kitchen, fixes a pot of coffee, looks through mail Farouk has stacked on the counter, most of it magazines, thumbs through Forbes while coffee drips, skims an article on the fastest cars, Porsche's new 911, the new Mercedes SLK55, Maserati Spyder.

He heads into his bedroom with its brick walls, another chalkboard (for keeping score, he tells some of the women he dates, winks at them, just kidding), sits on the bed, sips coffee, thinking, his eyes heavy.

Sykes wishes she had thought of bringing a bottle of water with her and something to eat. Her mouth is dry, tastes like dust. Her blood sugar is dropping.

Several times she has thought about venturing upstairs again and asking Detective Jimmy Barber's widow for a little hospitality, but the one time she went up to inquire if she could use the bathroom, Mrs. Barber, who was supposed to be asleep, was sitting at the kitchen table drinking straight vodka and as unfriendly and unpleasant as a skunk.

"Go on." Drunk as hell, jerks her head toward the bathroom down the hall. "Then get on with your business and leave me the hell alone. I'm sick and tired of all this, done my bit."

Alone and exhausted in the basement, Sykes continues studying Barber's baffling phone bills, trying to make sense of his charging so many of them to his home phone. Five of them have the area code 919, the same number each time, and Sykes tries it, gets an answering service for the North Carolina state medical examiner's office, someone asking if she wants to report a case.

"No. Oh, I'm sorry," she says. "I must have the wrong number," and hangs up. She notes that at least a dozen other calls Barber charged to his home phone over the days after Vivian Finlay's murder have the area code 704. She tries the number and gets a recording: the area code has been changed to 828. She redials.

Sykes checks her watch. It's almost 7 a.m. She says: "Really sorry to bother you so early, sir. But do you mind telling me how long you've had this phone number?"

He hangs up on her. Maybe it wasn't the best approach. She tries again and says right off: "I promise this isn't a crank call, sir. I'm an agent with the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation and I've come across this phone number in a case I'm looking at."

"No, sir. Serious as a heart attack. A case that happened 20 years ago."

"Good Lord," he says. "You must mean my aunt."

"And that would be?. . ." she asks.

"Vivian Finlay. This number was hers. I mean, we've never changed it."

"So I'm assuming she had another home besides the one in Knoxville."

"That's right. Here in Flat Rock. I'm her nephew."

Sykes calmly asks, "Do you remember Jimmy Barber, the detective who worked your aunt's case?"

She hears a female voice in the background: "George? Who is it?"

"It's all right, honey," he says, then to Sykes, "My wife, Kim." Then back to his wife, "I'll just be a minute, honey." Then to Sykes: "I know he tried hard, probably too hard. Was downright territorial about it, and I kind of blame him for it not going anywhere. You know, the case of his career, him not sharing information, working in secret. I bet you're familiar with things like that."

"As best I recall, he seemed to have this notion he was on to something, hot on the trail, wouldn't say just what that trail was, guess nobody else knew what it was, either. That's probably one reason it never got solved. That's always been my belief."

Sykes thinks of the calls made from Barber's home phone. Maybe that's the explanation. He was secretive, didn't want any dispatchers or his fellow investigators to catch the scent of what he was following. Maybe Barber wanted to solve the case himself, didn't want to share the glory. Yes, she's all too familiar with that M.O.

"Honey," George is talking to his wife again, clearly trying to soothe her. "Why don't you go make us some coffee? It's all right." Back to Sykes: "Kim took it the hardest, was as close to my aunt as a daughter. Oh, Lord, I hate that this has to all come up." He keeps sighing.

Sykes questions him a little further. George was in his early 40's when his aunt was murdered, is the son of her only sibling, Edmund Finlay, and when Sykes tries to make sense of how George and his aunt could have the same last name, he explains that she was quite strong-willed, proud of her distinguished family name, and she refused to give it up when she married. George is an only child. He and his wife, Kim, have two grown children who live out West, the couple spend all of their time in Flat Rock, left Tennessee for good not long after the murder, just couldn't be there anymore, couldn't handle the memories, especially Kim couldn't, practically had a nervous breakdown afterward. Sykes promises to get back to him, or more likely, an investigator named Winston Garano will. George doesn't sound very happy when he hears that part.

"It's just awfully painful to open up all this," he explains. "You mind my asking why it's necessary after all these years?"

"We're just looking into a few things, sir. I appreciate your cooperation."

"Of course. Whatever I can do to help."

He'd rather eat dirt than help, Sykes thinks. When the anger goes away and the ugliness fades, a lot of people don't care about justice anymore. They just want to forget.

"Too bad," she mutters to Barber's dark, wretched basement. It's not as if I'm having fun, either. She ponders and contemplates, perched on the pickle bucket like that statue "The Thinker," resumes going through the bills, finds a MasterCard bill for September, pulls out what is in the envelope, finds something that gives her a disk error, as she calls it.

"What the hell?. . ." she mutters, staring at a document with a cover sheet stamped with an autopsy case number, then another case number, this one a police file number sloppily scribbled in pencil: KPD893-85.

The page underneath it is a medical examiner's inventory of Vivian Finlay's personal effects, and stapled to it is a Polaroid photograph of mutilated male body parts, grimy and gory: feet, arms and legs, pieces and parts, guts, a decapitated head, arranged on top of a steel autopsy table covered with a green sheet. The case number written on a six-inch ruler used as a reference scale indicates the death occurred in North Carolina in 1983.

Win wakes up with a start, for an instant not sure where he is. He realizes he's been asleep for more than two hours, still in his clothes, his neck stiff, the coffee on his bedside table cold.

He checks his phone messages, skipping over the earlier ones left by Sykes when he was too busy with Lamont to deal with the Finlay case. Sykes has left him another message: she's sent him files over the Internet and he needs to look at them right away and call her. His computer is neatly centered on a Stickley desk (yard sale), and he sits down, enters Sykes's number, gets her on her cellphone.

"Good God!" She hurts his ear. "I just heard!"

"Whoa," he says. "You near a land line?"

She gives him a number he recognizes as the academy. He calls her back.

"Good God!" she starts in again. "It's all over the news. Good God, Win! What happened?"

"I'll tell you all about it later, Sykes."

"You get in a shootout and you're going to tell me later? At least you killed him. Goddamn, and her. How's that gonna work? The D.A.? That's all anybody's talking about down here."

"Can we move on, Sykes?"

"The part I don't get is how you ended up at her house, walked right into it. She invite you there for a nightcap or something?"

It doesn't take a detective to pick up on her jealousy. The beautiful, powerful Lamont, all the more formidable because Sykes has never met her, and now she imagines him heroically saving her life, probably thinks Lamont is devoted to him forever, wants to quit her job for him, get married, have his children, throw herself on a funeral pyre when he dies.

"Tell me what you've got," he says. "You find the file?"

"After spending half the night in Barber's damn basement, everything but."

He sips his cold coffee, goes into his e-mail. Sees files from her, converts them to documents as she talks fast, hardly takes a breath, tells him about MasterCard and phone bills, about Barber's probable territoriality and glory-hunting and secrecy, what Mrs. Finlay's nephew had to say. Then gets to the part about some man who had a bad encounter with a train in Charlotte two years before Mrs. Finlay's murder.

"Whoa, slow down," Win interrupts her, scanning a document on his screen. "What's a train death got to do with anything?"

"You tell me. You looking at the picture?"

"Looking at it now." He studies the photograph on his screen, not very good quality, a Polaroid of raggedly severed limbs and intestines and chunks of flesh piled next to a mutilated torso and severed head, what looks like black grease and dirt everywhere. White guy. Black hair. Pretty young as best Win can tell. "You checked it out with the M.E's office?"

"You know, I didn't realize this was my case." His cellphone rings. He doesn't answer, impatiently silences it.

"Hey," Win says to Sykes. "Don't be nasty."

"I'm not being nasty," Sykes says angrily.

"Good. Because plenty of people are being nasty, and I don't need you added to the list."

"You mean after what you did?. . ."

"Exactly. I've tried to tell you. She's borderline, a sociopath, Bonnie without Clyde, doesn't need a Clyde, thinks all of us are Clydes. Hates Clydes, actually."

"You saying Lamont doesn't like men?"

"Not sure she likes anybody."

"Well, it'd be nice if you'd say thanks," Sykes tries to sound gruff. "I've been up all night because of you, and I'm supposed to be in class in five minutes, and where am I? In the damn media room sending files to you, trying to call people, mostly getting cussed at. I'm going to look at the case later today, on a flight to Raleigh, the M.E.'s office in Chapel Hill."

"Who cussed at you?" He smiles a little. When she gets riled, she sounds like a little kid, one as Southern as pecan pie.

"Some damn Charlotte cop. And who's going to reimburse me for my plane ticket, by the way?"

"Don't worry. I'll take care of everything," he says, scrolling through another file, information that came from Detective Barber's basement, puzzled by a medical examiner's inventory of personal effects removed from a dead body in the morgue. "What did the damn Charlotte cop who worked the train fatality have to say?"

One pair of ruffled blue tennis panties with ball pocket, he reads the inventory.

His cellphone rings again. He ignores it.

"The big jerk," Sykes continues to vent all over the map. "He's the police chief now, you know what they say about what floats to the top."

He zooms in on a number written in pencil on the upper-right corner of the personal-effects report.

". . .Said I'd have to submit my request in writing if I want copies of the reports, which by now would probably be on microfilm," she is saying. "But he said he didn't understand the interest, there was nothing to it.. . ."

"Sykes? KPD893-85. Vivian Finlay? She was wearing tennis clothes when she was murdered?"

"Try telling that to him, the guy smashed to smithereens by the damn freight train. Nothing to it.. . ."

"Sykes! This inventory is Vivian Finlay's personal effects when she came into the morgue?" "That's the next bizarre part, the only thing I could find from her case file. Where the hell's the rest of it?. . ."

"These bloody tennis clothes are what's been in the Knoxville P.D.'s evidence room for 20 years, what's being tested for DNA in California?"

"You sure this personal-effects form is from her case?" Win asks.

"That's her case number for sure. I looked at every damn thing in every damn box while that roller-derby drunk wife of his rattled around in the kitchen upstairs, stomped around, made sure I knew how unwelcome I was. There's nothing else."

He looks at the personal-effects inventory again, realizes something he should have noticed immediately.

"Her nephew says he'll be glad to talk to us," Sykes says. "Well, not glad. But he will."

"Size 10," Win says as someone knocks on the door. "The tennis clothes are size 10. A five-foot, 91-pound woman doesn't wear size 10. Now what?!" as the knocking becomes more insistent.

"Got to go," he tells Sykes, gets up from his desk, walks into his living room as the urgent knocking continues.

He looks through the peephole, sees Sammy's flushed unhappy face, opens the door.

"I've been trying to get you for a damn hour," Sammy blurts out.

"How'd you know I was here?" Win asks, confused, his mind going everywhere.

"I'm a detective. Your home phone's busy. She just screeched at me like an air-raid siren."

"Who do you think? You got to come with me right now. She's waiting for you at The Globe."

Next week: Lamont takes her case to the press.

THE FUNNY PAGES: III: SUNDAY SERIAL Previous chapters are online at www.nytimes.com/funnypages
311 2006-02-19 That sale, in December, which some say raised the bar on Hamptons waterfront prices, illustrates the first half of the trend of the East End market over the last six months: high prices, but far fewer homes sold.

In Amagansett, the median home price increased by 27 percent, to $1.4 million, in 2005, but the number of homes sold dropped by 20 percent from 2004. Because of sales like the Further Lane home, the total dollars exchanged in home sales increased by 20 percent.

The East End market caters mostly to second-home buyers, and its explosive price rises exceed those of communities farther west in Suffolk and even in Nassau County. The median price in Nassau rose nearly 8 percent, to $480,000, and in Suffolk, rose almost 7 percent, to $390,000, compared with January 2004, according to the Multiple Listing Service of Long Island. But all over the region, inventories are up; the number of homes on the market rose 65 percent over January 2004.

Mr. Turino said Wall Street wealth over the last two years has driven "asking prices to the sky" for some properties in the Hamptons. "Now the asking prices are at record-high levels as a result of all that activity," he said.

But as the bull real estate market on the East End begins to ebb, Mr. Turino and others aren't sure how well the high-end homes will sell in coming months. "Can you still make record sales?" Mr. Turino said. "That's what we're waiting to see."

In the town of East Hampton, which encompasses Amagansett, the median price rose nearly 23 percent, to $849,000, but the number of homes sold dropped more than 11 percent.

"The same number of homes comes onto the market at any one time," said Htun Han, a partner at Hamptons Realty Group in East Hampton. "But because they're not getting bought as quickly, there's a little bit of a traffic jam and more houses are currently on the market."

Sellers are also not as bold in setting prices on homes owned for just a few years, unless they have completely renovated them or made major repairs. "It used to be people would think nothing about increasing the price by $50,000 or $100,000 for no reason, just because the market seemed to bear it," Mr. Han said.

The larger inventory of homes, a majority of them in the $700,000 to about $3 million price range, Mr. Han said, gives buyers many more choices, "which leads to a longer time to make a decision."

To the west, in the village of Southampton, the median price rose a whopping 40.7 percent, to $1.33 million, while sales tumbled 20 percent in 2005.

In July, a home on 2.4 acres on Meadow Lane in Southampton sold for $24 million. In May and June, two other homes on the same street sold for $14.8 million and $14 million. All three contributed to the 21 percent increase in dollar sales in the village, to $409 million.

The larger town of Southampton showed more modest, but similar, changes. There, the median price rose nearly 17 percent, to $737,000, and sales dropped 12 percent. The median price increase was less striking than the rise of 26 percent in 2004.

"The market now is more healthy than it was during the frenzied phase," said Paul Brennan, regional manager for the Hamptons for Prudential Douglas Elliman.

Money loses its meaning in a frenzied market, he said, when banks are lending hand over fist and people are buying homes, then flipping them at a profit two months later. "People have slowed down," Mr. Brennan said, "because probably they're scared themselves."

On the North Fork, where acres of vineyards and golf courses have stemmed the pace of development, Hamptonites have stepped up their search for good real estate deals.

Waterfront property on the bay on the North Fork sells for about $3 million, according to Enzo Mirabito, a broker with Prudential Douglas Elliman who focuses on the North Fork. In the Hamptons to the south, the same house will cost $5 million, he said. "So it's a difference of about 40 percent," Mr. Mirabito said. "When it gets to that point, people start switching forks."

The other lure, he pointed out, is that many houses on the north side of Peconic Bay "get beautiful sunrises."

There are also more buyers looking for lower-priced waterfront homes on the North Fork's many creeks. Hot sellers include homes on the peninsula of land bordered by Jockey Creek and the larger Goose Creek, which open onto Southold Bay, he said.

"It's around $1.2 million for a tear-down or fixer-upper," Mr. Mirabito said of the creek-front properties. "You can put in a dock; you can have a boat. There's a big market for that on the North Fork."

It's difficult to draw conclusions about smaller villages and hamlets from the Suffolk Research Service data, most real estate agents agree, because of the small volume of homes sold in those areas.

But in the town of Southold, which encompasses at least nine hamlets and villages, median prices rose 11.4 percent, to $490,000, while the number of sales rose less than 1 percent, to 533. In 2004, the number of houses sold there increased by 15 percent.

Riverhead, the other North Fork town, which begins at the junction of the two forks, experienced a moderate 5 percent increase in median prices. The number of sales, according to the Suffolk Research data, rose by nearly 11 percent, mostly because of a resurgence in Riverhead village and downtown revitalization.

Back on the South Fork, Mr. Turino said he is in a wait-and-see pattern. Buyers and sellers cannot draw absolute conclusions from the data, he said, with spring and summer only a couple of months away.

"There's a lot of Wall Street bonus money out there," Mr. Turino said, "and traditionally that money gets invested out here, or at least, a good portion of it."
312 2006-02-19 A $12 million shortfall in sales-tax revenue for 2005 has triggered a call for belt-tightening in Nassau County.      The $952.7 million the county received from sales taxes last year accounted for 40 percent of its $2.4 billion budget. Sales-tax ...
313 2006-02-19 Charles Siebert's article (Jan. 22) intrigued but didn't surprise me. Anyone who grew up on a farm knows about the wide variety of animal personalities: the calf who won't acknowledge your presence until she is spoken to, the sow who has to hear h...
314 2006-02-19 Three Biloxi casinos -- the IP Hotel & Casino, the Isle of Capri Casino Resort and the Palace Casino Resort -- are back in business on the hurricane-damaged Mississippi Gulf Coast. In "Letter from Biloxi," on the Web this Wednesday, Mary Billard w...
315 2006-02-19 ONE of the world's greatest flowerings of art and creativity occurred in the West Village from the 1940's to the 1970's, and although many of the artists, writers and poets who contributed to the era's richness have passed on, a few remain.

Twenty of them have been photographed by Michael Sofronski, a native New Yorker; his images are on view in "The Last Bohemians," an exhibition at the Westbeth Gallery, at 55 Bethune Street. The exhibition, which includes interviews with the subjects by Dylan Foley, a writer, runs through Saturday.

The photographer's goal was to document the bohemians before they are all gone; in fact, one died before the work was complete.
316 2006-02-19 Joe Baumann steered slowly across Speedway Boulevard before the Daytona 500 in 2000.

As some of the 160,000 fans raced toward their seats at Daytona International Speedway, Baumann could not keep pace. Three weeks removed from double hip-replacement surgery, he made his way through traffic with the help of a two-wheel walker, and a little unexpected inspiration.

Other fans, seeing the determined Baumann shuffling along, acknowledged his dedication by honking and shouting words of encouragement.

"As a fan, that was one of the greatest days I ever had," Baumann, 67, said.

There have been others, like his first Nascar race, the Daytona 500, in 1963.

"Tiny Lund won it," he said. "Fireball Roberts ran out of gas with about three laps to go."

Joseph Charles Baumann of Erie, Pa., who grew up in a time when teenagers were tooling with hot rods, not iPods, has attended auto races for more than half a century. He is still a man with motor oil in his veins.

"When I was growing up, everyone had their own flathead Ford," Baumann, a carpet salesman, said. "Everyone was drag racing and rebuilding carburetors. Everyone was totally into cars."
317 2006-02-19 That left Austin, and from its brick factory in a rough section of Hartford that belies the elegance of the product it makes, the company worked on the Mormon Tabernacle organ, and the organ for the Forbidden City Concert Hall in Beijing. In 2000, an Austin organ went into Bethesda-by-the-Sea, an Episcopal Church in Palm Beach, Fla., that has become a tourist attraction. The church's Web site includes a note from its music director: "Many folks continue to rave about our 1999/2000 Austin organ."

The towering First Presbyterian Church on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan has an Austin Organ. St. John's Episcopal Church in Northampton, Mass., also has one, as does the First Presbyterian Church in Tulsa, Okla. Several Austin organs did not have to travel far. In Hartford alone, the Asylum Hill Congregational Church, the Horace Bushnell Memorial Hall and the chapel at Trinity College have Austin organs.

John Rose, Trinity College's organist and its director of chapel music, called Trinity's Austin organ "one of the finest instruments ever built." It would cost about $2 million to replace, Mr. Rose said. Trinity bought the Austin organ when a steam pipe burst where the chapel's original organ stood, damaging it beyond repair.

"This organ was installed in 1971, and I arrived in 1977, so it was almost a new organ when I got here, and it's still playing beautifully," Mr. Rose said. "We are right here in the heart of Austin country, and this organ is considered one of the finest instruments in the area, if not beyond that. I'm delighted to hear the company is up and running again."

Mr. Taylor and Mr. Fazio, wisecracking choirmasters who stride about the massive factory practicing a well-honed shtick more likely to appear on the Comedy Channel than in a church, recently pointed out the collection of organ-making machines that John Austin, the company's founder, had built himself at the turn of the 20th century. When they needed a tool to make a part, Mr. Austin and his workers made it themselves. Mr. Austin revolutionized the construction of the organ, creating a chest that could be easily entered, an unheard-of feature that allowed workers to fix the organ without having to take it apart.

Austin Organs built a massive organ for the Panama Pacific Exhibition in California in 1915 that subsequently became the municipal organ for the city of San Francisco.

"You could serve a dinner for 75 inside that organ's chest," Mr. Fazio said. "I don't know whether anybody ever did, but they said they could."

That organ is in storage in San Francisco, and the new owners of Austin Organs are hoping they get to rehabilitate it.

"Right now, there's critters living in it," Mr. Taylor said.

John Austin's creations, and those of his employees, have left a large collection of one-of-a-kind museum quality tools and parts that would, if the company had closed for good, "been just kindling wood, gone to the four winds," Mr. Taylor said.

But hands grabbed them once again after Jan. 27. Mr. Fazio and Mr. Taylor not only called several workers back to their shifts, but brought others from the Chester factory.

On a recent chilly day, one of those workers from Chester, Colin Coderre, 19, sat at a long table in the Austin Organs factory assembling a manual motor. Mr. Coderre, whose father is a boat builder in Chester, began working at American Classic Organ in high school.

"It's something different every day, it's never boring," he said. "Plus, I have great bosses." He grinned broadly at Mr. Fazio and Mr. Taylor, who laughed.

That day, the two men walked the four floors of the building, past dozens of wooden file cabinets with papers dating from the 1890's. The company has built more than 2,000 organs.

"They never threw anything away," Mr. Taylor said.

They walked past boxes of organ devices called stop-actions, some of which had not been used in years.

"Every organ was made for a specific location; they're all custom," Mr. Taylor said. "So you never know when an older organ is going to need this part. Like I said before, they never threw anything away."

At its height, the company had 50 employees. Six workers are employed there now, and then there is Marilyn Austin, the only original shareholder to still be affiliated with the company. Mrs. Austin's husband, Donald Basil Austin, who died in 2004, was a grandnephew of the company's founder. Mrs. Austin, whose new title ranges from consultant to executive chairwoman emeritus depending on whom you ask, stood at a desk decorated with her nameplate.

"When times got a little more difficult, the stockholders decided to reorganize themselves," she said. "We did not declare bankruptcy. We decided it was time to get some new blood in, and Mr. Taylor and Mr. Fazio were the most interested in keeping Austin, Austin."

The two men met when Mr. Taylor was the factory foreman at the Berkshire Organ Company in West Springfield, Mass., and Mr. Fazio serviced organs for Berkshire. The Berkshire company closed, and Mr. Taylor decided to open his own. Looking at Mr. Fazio, Mr. Taylor said: "Since he was the vision of youth, I asked him to go into business with me. He was dumb enough to say 'yes.' "

Mr. Fazio said American Classic Organ would move its service to the Hartford factory. The Chester site would become a private workshop for Mr. Fazio.

Jadwiga Majewski, who started at Austin in 1972 soon after she arrived in Hartford from Poland, sat at a table in the factory that day, working on a stop-action. "He's a genius," she said of Mr. Fazio. "He can fix everything, improve everything, manage everything."

The challenge, though, is the lead time needed to build an organ, sometimes five years. A typical church organ costs about $350,000 to $400,000.

Organ builders typically work on only one or two organs at a time, and they need money to keep the business going while building the organ. That money often comes from repairing and rebuilding existing organs.

Now, trends may be going the company's way. Large organs are back, said Orpha Ochse, a professor emerita of music at Whittier College in California and the author of "Austin Organs," published by the Organ Historical Society.

"The truly large organ has recently come back into focus in the general musical scene," Professor Ochse said. "There isn't a new concert hall opening up that doesn't have a large organ in it."

Jim Bennett, the factory superintendent who weathered last year's closing by doing organ service work, said the new atmosphere in the old factory is a happy change.

"I'm glad, so very glad," he said. "A year or two before the closing, we were all waiting for the ax to fall. I'm excited to be back, because I think there's a lot of potential to be realized."
318 2006-02-19 Siebert's article was interesting. It would have been great if it had addressed the moral and ethical implications of the data it presented. If animals share so many feelings with people -- love, fear, altruism, etc. -- what justification is there...
319 2006-02-19 Look beneath the surface, he said, and you'll find that riskier assets are not doing all that well. Among the best-performing industry groups in 2006, Mr. Ankrim noted, are agriculture and steel -- not the types that generally attract the most aggressive investors. The worst-performing groups have included online retailers and online service companies, which have been volatile holdings in recent years.

Chris Orndorff, head of equity strategy at Payden & Rygel in Los Angeles, says he thinks that speculation has yet to be fully wrung out of the market, but that the risks investors are taking "are a little more discerning."

"The difference between this year and a couple of years ago," he said, "is that people are not losing sight of valuations." In recent weeks, for instance, there have been major sell-offs in expensive stocks, like Google, that failed to meet earnings expectations. This leads him to believe that investors aren't willing to give their investments, especially riskier ones, a long leash.

So how can long-term equity investors take on enough risk to reap some of the market's rewards while still being able to sleep at night?

A simple way is to consider valuations within all asset classes. Investors who still want to bet that small caps will beat large caps, for example, may feel more comfortable betting on less-expensive small stocks.

Over the last three years, the average small-cap stock fund returned 26.8 percent a year, on average. But funds that stuck with small stocks trading at below-average price-to-earnings ratios returned 27.6 percent. And by some measures, these funds were less volatile.

Investors may want to consider another strategy: hanging on to their winners -- in this case, small-cap or emerging-markets shares -- for a bit longer.

That may seem dangerous, given the importance of booking profits periodically. But Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at S.& P., recently studied this issue and found that it's often better to follow the adage of letting your winners run and cutting your losers short.

Mr. Stovall examined how stocks in the best-performing industry groups each year perform during the next year. Since 1970, an investor who bought a portfolio of the previous year's best-performing industry groups, held it for a year and then repeated the process, would have earned nearly 14 percent a year. That is nearly twice the average annual gain of the S.& P. 500 during that 36-year stretch.

To be sure, it is important to rebalance your portfolio periodically so that you sell some winners and buy losers to reduce overall risk.

But Mr. Stovall says that you can do this while still giving your winners more room to run. Instead of selling highflying small stocks just because a year has passed, for example, consider setting a target for them, as well as for your other asset classes. If you have 25 percent of your portfolio in small stocks, wait until that allocation changes by 5 to 10 percentage points before rebalancing. In other words, you might let them grow to, say, 35 percent of your portfolio before doing some trimming.

Finally, the risk takers and the risk-averse agree on one tactic in the current market: holding onto a chunk of cash.

Mr. Schaeffer says investors should hold more cash today than they usually do -- though he contends that they should embrace risk elsewhere in their portfolios. The cash provides a buffer for those bets, as well as more flexibility to move into alternate assets if they become more attractive.

Under normal circumstances, investors would look to add to their bond holdings for extra ballast. But Mr. Schaeffer argues that the bond market is so overvalued that "the return is not worth the risk." For example, in the Treasury market, long-term bonds, which expose investors to greater risk because of their longer maturities, are paying lower yields than short-term debt.

NICK NANDA, an asset allocation specialist at GMO in Boston, says he also believes that cash is important, but for a different reason. Mr. Nanda is in the risk-averse camp, largely because GMO is forecasting that most asset classes will disappoint, after adjustment for inflation.

For instance, the firm expects domestic stocks of all sizes to lose value, after inflation, over the next seven years. GMO doesn't expect foreign stocks to do much better, although it predicts that emerging markets may manage real gains of about 3 percent a year.

In a time of such meager expectations, "cash is a very good investment right now," he said.

Mr. Stovall likens risk-taking today to the plight of a frog sitting in a cold pot of water on the stove. "You know the pot is gradually getting hotter," he said, "but you're not willing to jump out just yet."

Of course, it's almost impossible to know the right moment to jump out of this pot. But some extra dollops of cash may let you stew in it a bit longer.

FUNDAMENTALLY Paul J. Lim is a financial writer at U.S. News & World Report. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com.
320 2006-02-19 To the Editor:     Re ''IPod on the Tracks,'' by Thomas Beller (New York Observed, Feb. 12):...
321 2006-02-19 To the Editor:     Thomas Beller provided an interesting perspective on the importance of his iPod and his willingness to risk life and limb to recover it after it fell to the tracks as he ran for the subway. Unfortunately, Mr. Beller missed the p...
322 2006-02-19 BEHIND every successful work of art, there are often several dozen failures, sometime years of trial and error. This is one reason why artists, when they hit upon a winning formula, stick to it. And it is also why artists, when they look to change...
323 2006-02-19 "Welcome," one says, slapping down a card. "Grab a bunk."

Yosemite Valley, with its courthouse and auto garage, grocery store and acres of asphalt, has for decades looked like the sprawl that many visitors seek to escape. Traffic is jammed, and armed law enforcers hover like chaperones at the prom.

Within a park that is such a monument to accessibility, the Ostrander Hut is an anomaly -- a destination recalling the days when a park visit required a modest expedition. And while it's tempting to call the hut a throwback, it's more accurately a holdover from an era that never quite happened.

Before the introduction of the chairlift, skiing was not today's billion-dollar industry of slick outfits and slopeside condos. It was the daring realm of eccentric Bavarians and Scandinavians who climbed their local mountains by fastening strips of seal skin to their wooden skis. The purpose of the sport was to get to the backcountry, and to stay out there as long as possible.

In the 1930's, Yosemite was poised to become the West Coast's first major ski center. At the helm of the Yosemite Park and Curry Company, the park's longtime concessionaire, were two skiers: Don Tresidder, a future president of Stanford University, and his wife, Mary Curry Tresidder. In hope of drawing visitors year round, they retained a crew of European experts to teach the arcane sport and envisioned a village and a series of huts modeled after places they had visited in the Alps.

When the Tresidders brought the first chairlift in the West to Badger Pass in 1935, "running downhill only" was considered an exercise for novices to develop the skills to tour in the backcountry. Along with the National Park Service and conservation groups like the Sierra Club, the Curry Company predicted that the future of skiing in Yosemite was not in the graceless mobs of downhillers, but in the sublime adventure of multiday backcountry touring.

Plans for an expansion of the Badger Pass ski area were scrapped. The first of three proposed huts was built by the Civilian Conservation Corps in 1941, nine miles from the Badger Pass chairlift.

It was an exquisite lodge. The walls are two-foot-thick granite, cut from nearby blocks of glacial moraine. The rafters and beams are local lodgepole, joined with heavy iron bolts. Even in the fiercest of storms the place doesn't creak or sway.

But the maxim "If you build it, they will come" did not hold true. In its first winter, the hut drew 154 skiers. Meanwhile, more than 70,000 rode the lifts at Badger Pass. When the war ended, downhill skiing boomed, and resorts on Lake Tahoe and in the Rocky Mountains dwarfed the Yosemite ski hill. No more huts were built.

Ostrander continued to draw a thousand or so hearty skiers yearly, and was maintained by husband-and-wife couples who served meals and split firewood. But the place was unprofitable and difficult to maintain. In 1968, Curry pulled its caretakers, and the hut seemed doomed.

Thirty-eight years later, Ostrander feels distinctly unmodern. There is no telephone or running water. Drinking water is hauled in plastic buckets from a hole chopped in the frozen lake, then stored in a 30-gallon barrel. A propane stove burns in the kitchen, but the only source of heat is that wood stove.

A few light bulbs hang from the ceiling -- recent additions powered by solar panels on the deck. The outhouses shelter portable toilets that along with the propane and firewood, are hauled in each fall by mule teams.

After my welcome, I unpacked the lobster bisque and cheese and wine and shared it with the caretaker, Kelsey Ripple. Kelsey, 33, has been a part-time hutkeeper for five years, usually working 5-to-10-day shifts, and he was happy to have some fresh food. In fleece pants and sheepskin slippers, he wandered out to the porch where he gets cellphone coverage and called his wife. She was supposed to ski in the next day, but the rain was brewing into a big snowstorm, and she said she would wait it out.

In the morning, we sat by the wood stove drinking tea and playing dominoes while the storm wailed. Joining us in the game were a couple who had been coming to this hut for more than a decade, and another who were first-timers. The two couples had skied in the day before, cutting the tracks in the fresh snow that we followed in. Storm forecasts continued on the radio, but we had everything we needed in the hut and cooked up a skillet of eggs and sausage and cheese. After the previous day's trek, we were content to take it easy.

The radio scanner crackled. There had been a report of marijuana smoke from a campground in Yosemite Valley. Within seconds, two law enforcement units were in motion, surrounding the campsite, whispering into their radios.

We became restless and changed into bibs and coats, and skied out of the hut to a nearby bowl. It was still raining lightly, but the snow wasn't bad. We made telemark turns through the trees to a flat spot in a draw, then skinned back to the top and did it again. After two runs we were tired enough to head back to the hut, break out the wine and dominoes and listen to the wind the rest of the day.

Enjoying the hut might not be possible without one man's effort. In the early 1970's, with cross-country skiing in a brief resurgence, the park service began to assign rangers to the hut. One visitor was Howard Weamer, a graduate student wandering the Yosemite wilderness for a doctoral dissertation on "geology and aesthetics."

He fell in love with the hut and the surrounding forested ridges, granite peaks and domes, and in 1974 took the seasonal position of caretaker. He never finished the Ph.D., but this year, he unrolled his climbing skins and skied out for his 33rd winter at Ostrander.

With a trademark gray beard, Mr. Weamer looks the part of a mountain hermit. But he speaks with the weariness and occasional outrage of a veteran of three decades of squabbling with the federal bureaucracy.

"I'd just shimmy out the roof peak," he told me, describing how over the years he has cleaned and repaired the chimney. "That is totally illegal now. You have to belay someone up there."

FOR the park's managers, saddled with accommodating three to four million annual visitors, Ostrander -- with fewer than 1,500 visitors a winter -- is a nuisance and has never escaped the threat of closure. Since the early 80's, when the park once again abandoned Ostrander, the hut has been operated by the nonprofit Yosemite Association.

So Mr. Weamer holds a unique place: while he's not technically a National Park Service employee, in his tenure at Yosemite fighting to keep the hut open, he has outlasted nine superintendents, as well as countless rangers, bureaucrats and inspectors.

"They'd literally have me carrying a gun," Mr. Weamer said, listing just one reason he is not an actual ranger. "I do what I do exactly because I don't want that stuff in my life."

These days, Mr. Weamer spends more time on photography and splits the hutkeeping shifts with Kelsey and another caretaker. In 1995, he published a history of the Ostrander Hut, "The Perfect Art: The Ostrander Hut and Ski Touring in Yosemite," featuring his photographs.

Mr. Weamer's advocacy has earned him some unlikely allies. The Ostrander is a cause that both liberals and conservatives can support: on one hand, a triumph of natural values over development; on the other, an example of citizens besting the government in managing a national treasure.

Representative George Radanovich, a Republican whose district includes much of Yosemite, has often sparred with environmentalists, but he has lobbied to keep the hut open. Mr. Radonovich even made the trek to the hut in 2004, eschewing the high-tech garb of so many skiers and arriving, as Kelsey recalled, in blue jeans and a flannel shirt.

That night, the congressman and the park superintendent, Mike Tollefson, sat around the wood stove swapping stories, an especially unusual occurrence considering that rangers -- to say nothing of administrators -- rarely go this far out. And like all visitors, the congressman apparently found the ski-out quite a challenge on skinny cross-country skis. "I heard he got a bit schooled on the downhill," Kelsey told me.

All Mr. Radanovich would admit to in a recent interview was, "I found the downhill harder than the up."

But he added, "I am in complete love with the high country, and any way to get up there, I'm open to it." The congressman said he would even support the original idea of creating a string of huts to allow longer ski trips.

Afternoons and evenings, the prime entertainment at Ostrander Hut is making bets on when the new arrivals will show. Just before dark, a young couple pushed through the door, soaked with rain and sweat, cheeks flushed and jaws slack. They climbed upstairs to change clothes and a few minutes later were out cold, wrapped up in sleeping bags on a cot.

Later, a lone skier arrived. His group of eight was moving slowly up Horizon Hill, three miles away. He dropped his pack and went back out to help them find the way.

As darkness fell, Kelsey was pacing. The skiers had not arrived. It got to be 7 o'clock, then 8, then 9. The caretakers frequently spend evenings skiing in the dark, looking for visitors who've not yet arrived, although, Kelsey said, "I've found that as soon as you get dressed, they always show up."

Finally, he buckled up his ski boots and packed up a radio and a couple of bottles of hot soup. Sure enough, as he was knocking the ice off his skis, we saw dots of light out in the woods.

Over the next 45 minutes, the eight skiers straggled in, wide-eyed, panting, relieved. They left Badger Pass about 12 hours earlier. That night, the hut had 22 visitors -- just three short of capacity.

Skiing out early the next morning, I was a bit schooled on the downhill myself. Overnight, the temperature had dropped, and the slushy snow had frozen. I rattled down the ice and, when I dropped a knee to turn, broke through the crust and face-planted.

It's not a very steep slope, but we were all falling down. Tim broke a pole and bound it together with duct tape.

It was a brilliant day, with the flank of Half Dome shimmering and the Clark Range jagged on the horizon. Down the hill, we ran into Kelsey's wife, Adonia, working her way up the trail. The next storm was a day away, and this was her window.

We talked weather and snow conditions for a minute, but she wanted to get to the hut while the light lasted. Rolling up her sleeves, she pushed off and glided up into the hills.

The Ostrander Ski Hut is open December through April. The most popular weekends are reserved by a lottery in October. Rates are $20 a person a night, plus park fees, most commonly $20 a week per car. Reservations can be made with the Yosemite Association (209-379-2646).

The association, which operates the hut, strongly recommends that only skiers of at least intermediate level in good physical shape attempt to ski to the hut. They should carry food and sleeping bags, know how to use a map and a compass, and be prepared to camp in the snow.
324 2006-02-19 SWISS--Keith Arthur. 81 years young. Beloved husband, confidant and partner of Shirley Myra for 57 years. Loving and devoted father of Nancy and Nelson, Jonathan, and Abbe and Stephen. Cherished grandfather (PaDaddy) of Amanda, Megan, Ashley, Hail...
325 2006-02-19 To the Editor:     Re ''Greetings Kill: Primer for a Pandemic'' (Week in Review, Feb. 12):     The ''social distancing'' of ourselves is a given, if the avian flu goes pandemic, but to suggest that the ''filthy practice of shaking hands'' be repla...
326 2006-02-19 It is all too easy to make fun of opera plots. Even the great Verdi maestro Riccardo Muti joked recently that he would be hard pressed to lay out the plot of "Il Trovatore."

A few decades ago, the San Francisco Opera offered a classic synopsis of another Verdi tangle, "Simon Boccanegra." Referring to the conspiracy against the doge, the writer reported in dead earnest that several characters had to be imprisoned "until the plot had cleared." Wouldn't it be nice if we could do that with other contorted plots? "O.K., everybody into the slammer, and we'll let you out one at a time when we figure out just what it is you do here." But more often, characters wander free -- and engage one another in dizzyingly complicated dynamics.

Pitying the poor operagoer who is left to sort it all out, one high-profile production has undertaken a novel bit of Mozartean whimsy. The program book for a production of "La Finta Giardiniera" that was part of the recent Mozart Week in Salzburg, Austria, and will be revived this summer at the Salzburg Festival, included a five-page synopsis of the convoluted plot. But instead of describing it in sentences and paragraphs, it offered something between a schoolgirl's doodle and a molecular diagram, sketching the characters' various love interests and misadventures with hearts, arrows and mere wisps of verbal description.

The "Fake Gardener" of the title, Sandrina, is Marchesa Violante Onesti, disguised and presumed dead. She is in love with Count Belfiore, who is in love with Arminda, a gentlewoman. Violante's servant Roberto -- also disguised, as Nardo -- loves Serpetta, the Mayor's maid, who loves the Mayor (Podestà), who loves Sandrina. Meanwhile, Ramiro -- oh, forget it.

In the diagrams, the hearts, color-coded in various combinations and shadings, mean in love with (red), jealous of (yellow) and angry at or hurt by (blue). The asterisks indicate mild confusion (one), moderate to strong confusion (two, in Act I) and insanity (three). "Sucht" means seeks; "folgt," follows.

Can the complexities of opera, with its heated passions and secret schemes, really be explained in a two-dimensional diagram? And if so, why not the rest of life? Daily interactions might go a lot more smoothly if they were preceded by a cheat sheet warning of jealousy and confusion. Even if the warnings were in German.

The Salzburg production didn't make the opera's plot, which hardly repays a moment's serious contemplation, all that much easier to follow: it transplanted the action from the Mayor's garden to a home gardening depot, and confusion ran a pretty steady two and half asterisks. Perhaps, with or without an engaging synopsis, all will be lucid in a more modest production of "La Finta Giardiniera" at the Little Opera Theater of New York, beginning on Wednesday. Just don't bet the farm on it.
327 2006-02-20 I spoke to an audience of Washington University alumni last December at the new Muhammad Ali Center in Louisville, one of the most impressive monuments ever built to the memory of an athlete, living or dead. It would have been hard to imagine in t...
328 2006-02-20 The International Ski Federation fined the ski racer Pierre-Emmanuel Dalcin 5,000 Swiss francs ($3,800) for unsportsmanlike behavior. He made an obscene gesture after failing to finish Saturday's super-G.   NATHANIEL VINTON (NYT)...
329 2006-02-20 The Latest Digital Advances Threaten Camera Brands That Long Held Prestige  At the annual Photo Marketing Association International show next week, Sony, Panasonic and Samsung are expected to outline their plans to move into photography's top tier...
330 2006-02-20 A New Jersey police lieutenant who last month won a long campaign to pass on pension benefits to her domestic partner died on Saturday.

The lieutenant, Laurel Hester, 49, had lung cancer, and her battle with the disease lent her cause a profound urgency as the Ocean County freeholders repeatedly refused to consider a resolution allowing county law enforcement employees to designate someone other than a spouse as a pension beneficiary.

The freeholders reversed their position on Jan. 25 after negotiations led to a statewide change in the rules, allowing police and fire department employees to name anyone, not just a spouse, as a beneficiary.

Lieutenant Hester died in the house in Point Pleasant that she owned with her partner, Stacie Andree. "I can't help but feel relieved that she's not in pain anymore and she's going to be taken care of," Ms. Andree said yesterday. "She's done a lot of good."

Lieutenant Hester began her career with the Ocean County prosecutor's office in 1982, said Dane Wells, who worked as her partner in the prosecutor's office. She was placed on sick leave in the fall of 2004, Mr. Wells said, and officially retired last month.
331 2006-02-20 Dai Ailian, the doyenne of dance in China, who as founder of the Beijing Dance Academy and director of its affiliated National Ballet combined her ballet and modern-dance training in the West with pioneering research into China's folk traditions, died on Feb. 9 in Beijing. She was 89 and had divided her time in recent years between Beijing and London.

Her death was reported by The Independent in London and The Shenzhen Daily in China.

Ms. Dai was a familiar figure in international dance circles, first as a dancer and choreographer who performed in London in the 1930's and in New York in the 40's, then as the guiding force in China's first state-sponsored national ballet institutions after the Communist government came to power in 1949.

In her remarkable life's journey, she both established ballet in China and introduced the country's little-known ethnic traditions abroad. When the Central Ballet of China, as the National Ballet of China was then called, made its New York debut at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in 1986, Mayor Edward I. Koch paid tribute to Ms. Dai from the stage.

Born in Trinidad and of Chinese descent, Ms. Dai spoke no Chinese when she left London, where she had been studying, for China at the end of 1939. At the outbreak of World War II, the China Institute in London offered to repatriate Chinese students living there.

Ms. Dai was included although she was several generations removed from China: her great-grandparents, she said, immigrated to Trinidad, where she was born on May 10, 1916. "I had never been to China, but being Chinese, I always wanted to go," she said. "My interest was to discover the Chinese dance and to develop it."
332 2006-02-20 The following equity and convertible debt offerings are expected this week:       Allscripts HealthCare Solutions, 7.3 million shares. Lehman Brothers and UBS....
333 2006-02-20 Cheek clicked on the message. "Appreciate the effort," he read. "Obviously, we receive many great applicants." Two months later, the rest of his rejection is a blur.

"I was devastated," Cheek said. Then he smiled. It was Sunday afternoon, the first day of the second week of the XX Winter Olympics, and the whole world, it seemed, was laughing with Cheek, who has become the unofficial good-will ambassador of these Games, the breakout Gets-It guy.

It started when Cheek won a gold medal in the 500 meters. He announced he was donating his $25,000 United States Olympic Committee bonus to Right to Play, a humanitarian organization based in Toronto that is focused on helping disadvantaged children through sports. The next day, Right to Play's Web site, which had been averaging 14,000 hits a day during the previous two weeks, received 93,329.

Since Cheek spoke up, Gap, the United States clothier, has pledged $25,000, joining others in a money chain that has surpassed $300,000. And thanks to his silver-medal performance Saturday in the 1,000 meters, and another $15,000 bonus from the U.S.O.C., Cheek's total donation to Right to Play has reached $40,000.

That is roughly the amount a world-class speedskater can earn from his sport in a really good year. "It's like a snowball," said Nancy Shea, spokeswoman for Right to Play. "It keeps rolling down the hill and getting bigger and bigger. He has really touched people."

Cheek is an antitoxin for those who have been fed a steady diet of showboating, sniping, self-absorbed Olympians. "To be that inspiration for people to do better in the world, I love that," said Johann Olav Koss, the four-time speedskating gold medalist from Norway, who is Cheek's childhood inspiration and the force behind Right to Play.

"It takes a special person to be able to do what Joey did; I think what makes him unique is he has a very large intellectual capacity," Koss added. "I would recruit him as my American C.E.O., no problem."

That's swell. Would Koss care to put that in writing and send it to the admissions department at Harvard? Koss laughed. "I have no problems doing that," he said.

When Koss's offer was relayed to him, Cheek, who had just finished sitting for one quick interview after another, appeared to blush through his TV makeup.

"That's really flattering," he said.

He said he had received 300 to 400 e-mail messages since winning the 500 meters.

Cheek, who will race in the 1,500 on Tuesday, has not heard from Harvard admissions, but several people professing to be Harvard alumni have reached out to him.

"Several of them have said, 'We would love to have you,' " Cheek said. He said others had said, "Don't sweat it because we went there and it's not that big a deal."

Cheek laughed. "A few have offered to do anything they can to help," he said. "I love it. If there was some way I could get in, I'd take it."

He paused to consider that last comment. He said cheerfully that by letting it be known he wanted to get in, he had probably hurt his chances. "In their defense," he added, referring to Harvard, "I wasn't a gold medalist in the fall when I applied. I was a bronze medalist."

But that is still an amazing accomplishment, right? "Yeah," Cheek replied. "But you know how it is in the U.S."

Cheek, who wants to study economics, has not been in a classroom since the age of 16. So he had that going against him. Then there was the math.

"There were 22,000 applicants for 1,600 spots," Cheek began, launching into a nonauthoritative, lighthearted riff on Harvard admission policies. "Forty percent are legacy. So we're down to 1,000. Half men, half women, so you're down to 500. Students in sports, you're down to 250. Half-minority, half blond-haired, blue-eyed, middle-class white boys, and you're finally at maybe 75."

Turning serious, Cheek added, "Think how many kids there are who are valedictorian with perfect SAT scores that deserve to go to Harvard, and you can understand why I didn't get in."

Cheek, who has since applied to other universities, said he had only himself to blame. "I worked hard at skating because I had to or I wouldn't have been any good," he said. "In school, I can't say that I always worked as hard as I'm capable of.

"At 26, I have the perspective to look at it now and say I hurt myself by doing that. I look at it like I learned my lesson."

What he learned goes beyond any college degree -- that athleticism and altruism are two sides of the same gold medal.

"That's what I think is the beauty of this," Koss said. "These things, it's not possible to plan. You can never expect it to happen. When it does, it's fantastic."
334 2006-02-20 American carriers combined have spent about $10 billion in the last three years to upgrade their networks. Verizon Wireless now offers 3G services in 181 markets, while Sprint expects to match Verizon's coverage in the coming months. Cingular uses a different 3G technology that is available in 52 cities. (T-Mobile, the fourth-largest carrier, plans to introduce 3G services next year.)

With individual subscribers spending less on standard voice-only plans, the carriers are banking on consumers to move rapidly to more expensive 3G services and do more than talk on their handsets. But the experience of carriers that introduced 3G services in Japan, Korea and elsewhere is sobering. In those countries, it took years before phones and plans were cheap enough to entice consumers to use the new data features, and even longer before carriers saw any return on their investment.

American carriers have not released separate figures for 3G cell subscribers. But industry analysts say there may be fewer than five million 3G phones in use, or less than 3 percent of the market, and only two million of those are connected to a 3G data plan.

"The biggest impediment is not pricing or technology, but consumer behavior," said Charles S. Golvin, an analyst at Forrester Research. "Most people still look at these things as phones."

To be sure, the amount that consumers spent on data services has nearly doubled in the past year, and revenue from those services now makes up nearly 10 percent of overall sales at the largest carriers. Last Wednesday, Sprint Nextel said that its customers had downloaded one million songs from its music site since it opened in October (some were promotional giveaways; others sold for $2.50 a song). Verizon said that in the fourth quarter, its customers sent 7.4 billion text messages and 135 million photos with their handsets.

But thus far, the bulk of the data being swapped on phones -- short messages, ring tones and photos -- can be handled by the current generation of phones. Only about one-quarter of Verizon Wireless's handsets are even capable of providing 3G services, though the company is steadily adding more models to its lineup.

The carriers are trying to keep prices for the new phones in line with other high-end handsets, lest they scare away customers. Verizon Wireless's LG 8100, which lets customers watch television clips, play games and listen to music, costs $150 after rebates.

Verizon's 3G data service, called V Cast, which allows users to watch CNN, CBS News and MTV segments, among other programs, costs an additional $15 a month.

Sprint has a $15-a-month plan that lets subscribers watch segments of ABC News and other programs, listen to a Sirius radio channel and roam the Web. For $20 or $25 a month on Sprint, users can watch extra programming from ESPN, Animal Planet and other channels that have been reformatted for the small screen.

While watching video on cellphones may be novel, the experience is hardly overwhelming. As Mr. Harper and others have found out, downloading a video clip can often take as long as watching it. The program clips on V Cast are updated only a few times a day and often there are only a handful for each category, some of which are sports, news and entertainment.

"All the services are lacking," Mr. Harper said. "Verizon's V Cast is better than Sprint's, but it ain't there yet."

Cingular has introduced a more complete TV experience called MobiTV, which gives subscribers 25 channels of live television, including CNBC, Fox Sports and Discovery, on their phones for $9.99 a month in addition to their data and voice plans.

Verizon also plans to introduce a similar type of video service created by Qualcomm called MediaFLO that will provide access to live television broadcasts.

Still, for business users like Mr. Harper, few phones have all the functions he needs. Many business executives still buy devices like the Treo or the BlackBerry because their larger screens make it easier to read e-mail and open large attachments. Adding a 3G data plan makes sending and receiving those messages faster as well.

One bright spot for the carriers is that many companies are starting to buy their broadband PC cards, which plug into laptops to enable them to connect wirelessly to a 3G network.

Doris Mosblech, the network manager at Embarcadero Systems, which provides technology to shipping companies, is using PC cards from Sprint Nextel to let her company's workers access their e-mail with their laptops. The cards, priced at around $250 retail, can send data up to 10 times faster than older PC cards. With the new PC card, a user still needs to subscribe to a monthly 3G plan.

"As time has gone on, the applications we use require more broadband," Ms. Mosblech said, referring to larger e-mail attachments, videoconferencing and Internet phones. "The new cards felt almost like the speeds we get on our desktops."

In time, carriers may cut the prices for the cards and the PC data plans, which now cost between $40 and $80 a month. That was the pattern in other countries where 3G services were introduced.

American carriers, while late to 3G, have also learned from what has succeeded and flopped overseas. Verizon and Sprint have relied heavily on Samsung and LG, two companies with experience making 3G handsets in South Korea. Other manufacturers have ironed out many of the kinks -- like poor battery life and bulky size -- that plagued the first 3G phones released in Japan in 2001.

The carriers are also introducing flat-rate data plans; the Asian providers learned that consumers did not like having to pay by the piece for the data they sent.

Still, though customers are upgrading their phones and plans in Japan, the amount that individual subscribers spend has declined, a trend that may make American carriers think twice about expecting any windfalls from their 3G networks.
335 2006-02-20 But useful as they may be, Mr. Gainer said, catalogs were simply not ringing the registers as loudly. Disney spent $18 million to mail 30 million catalogs last year -- half of them sent in the holiday season. The holiday mailing went to similar groups as the previous year's did, yet Disney had a 45 percent drop in phone orders. The number of customers who responded to e-mail and other online marketing messages, meanwhile, skyrocketed.

"I think it's time to focus just on e-commerce, and see how great we can be," Mr. Gainer said.

Jim Coogan, president of Catalog Marketing Economics, a consultancy based in Santa Fe, was critical of Disney's decision, calling it "something I see a lot from the e-commerce world."

"What almost inevitably happens," Mr. Coogan said, "is that the business has lower costs, as expected, but a much greater-than-expected drop in sales. Typically companies expect to hold onto almost all the Web sales and are surprised when that doesn't happen."

Disney isn't the first cataloger to cut back radically on its mailings in an effort to shift more business to the Internet. In 1999, Lands' End cut its catalog circulation by 9 percent; its revenue soon fell by nearly twice that percentage, in an experiment that many online executives still point to as evidence that catalogs are more critical to driving Internet sales than they may appear.

But Mr. Gainer says 2006 is a much different selling environment online. Not only have high-speed Internet connections led to more aggressive online buying by mainstream customers, but search engines are considerably more effective in helping attract those customers than they were in 1999.

Mr. Gainer said the unit, which sold $160 million of products last year, did not make the decision lightly. His team tested various catalog mailing approaches in the last six months to analyze if it should keep the catalog operation running. But no matter the approach, online orders grew much faster than telephone sales, to the point that more than 80 percent of Disney Shopping's sales now come online. In fiscal 2005, Disney's consumer products division, which includes stores, product licensing, catalog and the Internet, sold nearly $21 billion globally.

By eliminating the catalog, Disney will save a substantial amount of money. In addition to closing a call center in Kansas earlier this month, Mr. Gainer said he had eliminated an undisclosed number of other staff positions. "We had some people with expertise in print, production and photography," he said. "Some have been restructured, some will be replaced with online-specific positions."

The $18 million that went into the catalog division will instead be used to buy search-engine advertisements, improve the company's e-mail marketing campaigns and develop a more extensive roster of third-party sites, known in industry parlance as affiliates, to help refer buyers to Disney.com.

Disney.com will see "consistent double-digit sales growth" as a result of this switch, Mr. Gainer predicted, compared with just 5 percent sales growth in 2005. "Our marketing will be much more efficient online than with print."

While that may be true, Disney is not getting much slack from the analyst community. "I think this is really short-sighted," said Donna L. Hoffman, professor of marketing at Vanderbilt University.

Ms. Hoffman said that customers who shopped using a particular retailer's stores, catalogs and Web site spent 15 percent more with that company than those who shopped through just one of those three components. "Disney's just leaving all of that on the table," she said.

Catalogers have struggled to maintain costs amid rising postage and printing costs in the past year, Ms. Hoffman said. "And people are definitely cutting back. They're printing fewer catalogs, with less pages and they're reducing their call center staff. But no one's saying 'Let's get rid of catalogs because they cost too much.' "

Ms. Hoffman also suggested that reversing course could be difficult. "It's really hard to get back the cataloging expertise they're throwing out. What if they decide it was a mistake, and need to get those back, which at some point if they're flush with cash they might do?"

Not a chance, said Mr. Gainer. The company plans two final catalog drops of a million pieces each, in March and April.

"You may see print materials in the future, a postcard or something, but it will only be to drive traffic online," he said. "There won't be another 80-page catalog."
336 2006-02-20 Tucked into the larger question is the issue of how many of the nation's 100 million or so acres of wetlands have a close enough connection, or nexus, to regulated waters to fit under the same regulatory umbrella.

The twin cases, blending questions of hydrology and federalism, take aim at the constitutional and legal underpinnings of the federally run system that controls the health of the nation's web of waterways. The developers argue that the federal custodians of the Clean Water Act have overreached by asserting jurisdiction over ditches and wetlands far from the large waterways over which Congress has clear authority.

In addition, the cases bring a rich cast of characters to the court. It includes a cantankerous developer who has likened environmental regulators to Nazis, a legal foundation dedicated to reining in government and a diverse group of supporters on both sides, including the Western Coalition of Arid States, the Association of California Water Agencies, the American Petroleum Institute and the libertarian Cato Institute.

M. Reed Hopper of the Pacific Legal Foundation, who represents one developer, John A. Rapanos, argues that the existing interpretation of the law infringes on the rights of states and individuals and impermissibly gives the federal government authority over "any area over which water flows, including a public street with an attached storm drain, a private lawn that drains to the street or, quite literally, the kitchen sink."

In response, the government, backed by major environmental groups, federal and state regulators and a bipartisan group of former administrators of the Environmental Protection Agency, says that the theories of Mr. Rapanos and his fellow developer, June Carabell, would remove more than half of existing waterways -- perhaps as many as 99 percent, by one estimate -- from federal water pollution controls.

In addition, they argue, if the court were to uphold the developers' position, the result would be to upend a decades-old regulatory system.

Wetlands are nurseries for creatures at the bottom of many food chains, filters that keep some nutrients and pollutants out of streams, and buffers against flooding.

If the court interpreted the Clean Water Act as controlling only actually navigable waterways and their immediate tributaries and adjacent wetlands, "then discharges of such materials as sewage, toxic chemicals and medical waste into those tributaries would not be subject" to regulation under the law, the solicitor general, Paul D. Clement, wrote in the government's brief.

Both developers sought to fill wetlands to make way for development -- in Mr. Rapanos's case, a shopping mall in Midland, Mich.; in the case of Ms. Carabell, a condominium in Chesterfield Township. Mr. Rapanos defied state regulators, who, acting with federal authority specifically delegated by the E.P.A., told him not to fill his wetland without a permit. Ms. Carabell applied for a permit from the Army Corps of Engineers and was rejected.

The two cases present physical as well as legal differences. The wetlands owned by Mr. Rapanos -- two others, in addition to the one where the shopping center was once planned -- are as far as 20 miles from local rivers, but adjacent to ditches that drain into tributaries of those rivers. Ms. Carabell's wetlands abut a ditch that drains into nearby Lake St. Clair, but are separated from the ditch by an earthen berm.

The legal arguments in the briefs pit two recent Supreme Court precedents against each other. In a 1985 California case, United States v. Riverside Bayview Homes, the court observed that Congress had intended "to regulate at least some waters that would not be deemed 'navigable' under the classical understanding of that term." Referring to the role of wetlands in protecting larger waterways, the court said that activity in wetlands abutting open waterways could be controlled by the corps.

In this case, the government argues that the court should extend the authority of the corps to wetlands abutting tributaries of actually navigable waters. The constitutional lever through which the control is exercised is the Commerce Clause, which provides for federal control both over direct avenues of commerce -- like waterways crucial to trade -- and over issues that "substantially affect" interstate commerce.

In 2001, in an Illinois case, Solid Waste Agency of Northern Cook County v. United States, the court said the corps overreached its legal and constitutional authority by claiming control over an isolated quarry. The quarry had filled with water and was used by migratory birds, which are protected under federal law. The court ruled that there had to be a "significant nexus" between the regulated wetland or stream and true "navigable waters." If not, regulation of the water body fell to the state.

Most states represented in the amicus briefs, minus Alaska (where most of the country's wetlands are located) and Utah, back the government. A brief for state and regional water pollution officials said states "know they cannot adequately protect these resources acting alone."

As Douglas Kendall, one of the lawyers for these officials, explained, a downstream state could suffer the pollution from a neighbor raking in tax revenues off the associated development. The downstream state, he said, would have clear economic incentives to do the same.

But the brief for Alaska, Utah, the California Farm Bureau and several Western water authorities argues that "the wetlands in these cases did not have a 'significant nexus' to navigable waters because they were not adjacent to navigable waters; did not significantly affect navigation or interstate commerce in such waters; and had no apparent, significant effects on the actual flows or condition of such waters."

That brief argues that it is the federal control over navigation that gives the E.P.A. and the corps authority over navigable waters, and that unless their regulations directly prevent impediments to navigation -- unless, for example, they deal with issues like the level of river flows -- the issues fall to the states. The act, the brief argues, "authorizes federal jurisdiction up to the limits of the navigation power but not beyond."
337 2006-02-20 Although Harrell, who is black, sensed some bias in the sport in his day, he and others -- black and white alike -- agree that the issue cannot be simplified.

Those familiar with the sport have mentioned several possible reasons for the inability of a black athlete to break through as a bobsled pilot, including cost, geographical limitations and the structure of the sport.

Joe McDonald paid little attention to the roadblocks associated with being named a driver when he became a pilot in 1996.

McDonald, who retired last year, has never driven in an Olympics, but he is believed to be the only black athlete to have driven on the World Cup tour.

"I felt like I had a better control of my destiny if I was a pilot," McDonald, who is from Kingston, N.Y., said in a telephone interview. "As a push athlete, you find yourself at the mercy of someone else's decision."

With Lake Placid, N.Y., and Park City, Utah, serving as the only homes of bobsled tracks in the United States, it is easy to see why blacks -- and most of mainstream America, for that matter -- receive little exposure to the sport.

"Bobsled is not something you're going to be doing in your backyard," said Walker, a Heisman Trophy winner who spent 12 seasons as a running back in the N.F.L. "That's something very unique; it's something you have to grow up being around."

But that was not the case for the United States' No. 1 driver, Todd Hays. He is from Del Rio, Tex., which is not exactly a hotbed of winter sports. Hays, who is white and played football at Tulsa, is considered one of the top pilots in the world.

Brian Shimer is also white and from a warm climate (Naples, Fla.), but he competed in four Olympics as a driver and capped his career in Salt Lake City in 2002 by piloting the four-man team that won the bronze medal.

To Shimer, anyone willing to put in the effort can be a driver, regardless of race. Right out of Morehead State, Shimer said, he used bobsledding to see the world and eventually fell in love with the sport.

"You got to put a lifetime into this to become a driver," said Shimer, who drove for Walker in the 1992 Olympics and is the driving coach for this year's team. "If you're prepared to do that, you can become successful in the sport."

Most drivers, including Shimer, started in the sport as pushers. Some have said the primary reason that there are no elite-level black drivers is that none of the black push athletes wanted to make the switch.

"I think they've just been comfortable being a pusher," Walker said.

Chris Coleman, a two-time Olympic push athlete who is black, said the financial barriers were the main reason for not making the switch.

"To enter the sport of bobsled as a push athlete is a very low economic barrier of entry," Coleman, an associate director of partnership marketing for the United States Olympic Committee, said by telephone. "However, to take that next step to being a driver requires a lot more capital investment."

To begin their driving careers, pilots are expected to buy their own sleds, which start at $10,000 but cost about $40,000 for the world-class models. As they make names for themselves, drivers could receive financial support from the United States Bobsled and Skeleton Federation.

Drivers may also have to pay for their push crews and for travel expenses.

"In order to do that, some bobsled drivers of the past have had systems set up that would support them," Coleman said. "African-American athletes are working on developing those economic systems."

The federation generally finances its top three drivers and provides them with the best sleds. But the allotments, some have said, are arbitrary.

McDonald said he did not want to play the race card, but he was suspicious of some instances in which he was passed over for financing and sleds.

"I'm not entirely sure" it was because of race, he said. He added, "When I weighed all the other reasons why I was getting the short end of the stick, it seemed to be the only factor that was standing out."

Vonetta Flowers, who became the first black athlete to win a gold medal at the Winter Olympics by pushing for Jill Bakken in the 2002 Games, said she hoped to inspire blacks to drive. She will push Monday for Jean Prahm, but she said she planned to pursue driving after the Games.

"I hope that my explosiveness and speed will enable me to gain an advantage over my competitors," Flowers wrote in an e-mail message, "and allow me to be successful so that I can inspire a new generation of bobsledders."

2006 OLYMPIC WINTER GAMES -- BOBSLED Correction: February 23, 2006, Thursday Because of an editing error, a sports article on Monday about the absence of black drivers in Olympic bobsled competition referred incorrectly in some copies to the distinction held by Joe McDonald on the World Cup tour. He was its first African-American driver; black drivers from other nations had competed on the tour.
338 2006-02-20 A founder of a black police organization said yesterday that he was facing departmental charges for publicly criticizing the city's handling of a terror alert last fall.

Eric Adams, a captain who heads 100 Blacks in Law Enforcement Who Care, will attend proceedings this week over accusations that his appearance on a television news program in October is grounds for termination, one of his lawyers, Norman Siegel, said at a news conference.

On the program, on WCBS-TV, Captain Adams castigated the city for deciding to wait four days before publicizing a Department of Homeland Security warning about a possible terror attack in the subways.

At the time, Captain Adams suggested that the city released the information when it did to distract attention from Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's failure to appear at a candidates' debate at the Apollo Theater in Harlem. The threat later turned out to be unfounded.

If the disciplinary action were to result in dismissal, Captain Adams, a 22-year veteran scheduled to retire on March 17, could lose his pension. Mr. Siegel said that the captain was planning to run in Brooklyn for a seat in the State Senate.
339 2006-02-20 MEXICO CITY, Feb. 19 - A roiling scandal here over the attempts of a state governor to jail a reporter has raised questions about whether the rich and powerful are using their influence with politicians to silence critics.

It began in December when a Cancún journalist who had written a book about child pornography and pedophile rings in the resort town was arrested with no warning and driven across the country to the state of Puebla. The writer, Lydia Cacho, was then charged under state law with defaming a textile businessman, Kamel Nacif, in her book, "The Demons of Eden." In her book, Ms. Cacho wrote that Mr. Nacif was a friend of Jean Succar Kuri, a man accused of pederasty in Cancún, and was paying for his legal defense.

Defamation and slander are criminal charges in Mexico, and Ms. Cacho was held briefly in jail before being released while state prosecutors began their investigation into the charges. In Mexico, with no grand jury system, an arrest can be made before the charges are substantiated.

Last week, however, someone gave an audiotape to a Mexican radio station and a national newspaper, La Jornada, that renewed the debate over Ms. Cacho's arrest. The recording carries an ugly conversation celebrating Ms. Cacho's arrest between two male voices that the journalists from the newspaper and the radio station said had been identified as the Puebla State governor, Mario Marín, and Mr. Nacif.

On the tape, the voice that is said to be the governor's tells the other man that he has dealt a blow to someone presumed to be Ms. Cacho, using an expletive to refer to her. "I told her here in Puebla the law is respected, and there is no impunity," the voice continues.
340 2006-02-20 But in October, Meredith Linsky, who directs the pro bono group in Texas, notified immigration officials that Border Patrol agents had placed a 22-year-old woman from Honduras into expedited deportation proceedings without asking whether she feared return. Immigration officials intervened to stop the deportation to allow the woman to be given a "credible fear" interview.

Domestic security officials say such cases are extremely rare. "If they exist at all, I am very confident that they are very small and very isolated," said David V. Aguilar, chief of the Border Patrol. "The training of our agents is very involved, and there are safeguards in place within the process to ensure that nobody drops through the cracks."

But Mark Hetfield of the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, the federal commission that released a study on expedited removal in 2005, said the government's decision to expand expedited removal without first fixing its flaws left asylum seekers at risk.

In September, domestic security officials announced that they would detain and summarily deport illegal immigrants apprehended along the border with Mexico. (Until then, expedited removal was primarily used to deport illegal immigrants who arrived by plane or by sea.)

In January, the policy was expanded to include the border with Canada. The policy, which is intended to address national security concerns by stemming the flow of illegal immigrants, is currently directed primarily at illegal immigrants from countries other than Canada or Mexico.

"We were pretty explicit that expedited removal should not be expanded until the flaws we identified were fixed," said Mr. Hetfield, who directed the study. "Yet none of the problems we have identified have been fixed, save one."

This month, domestic security officials put into effect one of the commission's most important recommendations, naming the Department of Homeland Security's first senior adviser for refugee and asylum policy to help ensure that adequate safeguards for asylum seekers and refugees are in place.

The new adviser is Igor V. Timofeyev, who came to the United States as a refugee from Russia. He joined the department from the law firm of Sidley Austin in Washington and previously served as associate legal officer for the president of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, clerk for the Supreme Court and clerk for the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.

Mr. Timofeyev said the department took the commission's recommendations seriously and was studying them to determine what action should be taken. Last week, he met with staff members from Human Rights First, an advocacy group, and with officials from the United Nations, two groups that have raised concerns about the expedited removal process.

"Just the fact that I'm here is an illustration of the fact that the department and Secretary Chertoff take the recommendations seriously," Mr. Timofeyev said, referring to Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff. "These issues will not fall through the cracks.

"We want to close the border to people who want to do us harm, but we also have to keep the door open to people who want to come here legitimately," Mr. Timofeyev said. "People who are legitimate refugees from persecution, they should certainly be able to come to this country."

Domestic security regulations require that immigration officials refer an illegal immigrant for a credible fear interview if the immigrant indicates "an intention to apply for asylum, a fear of torture or a fear of return to his or her country."

The commission found, however, that even when its experts were present to observe, immigration officials failed to refer illegal immigrants to credible fear interviews 15 percent of the time, including in cases in which the immigrants expressed fear of political, religious or ethnic persecution.

The study also found that asylum seekers were often treated like criminals while their claims were evaluated; they were strip-searched, shackled and often put in solitary confinement in local jails and federal detention centers. And it reported disparities in who was granted asylum, depending on where asylum seekers sought refuge, what country they were from or whether they had a lawyer.

Among other recommendations, the commission said that domestic security officials should clarify the often conflicting instructions given to Border Patrol and airport inspectors about how to handle asylum seekers, and should routinely videotape border agents when they interviewed asylum seekers.

The group also suggested that domestic security officials send anonymous field testers to see whether agents were following procedures; expand access to legal representation for immigrants; improve detention conditions; and release asylum seekers from detention when they posed no flight risk or security risk.

"The changes are long overdue at this point," said Eleanor Acer, director of the asylum project at Human Rights First. "And yet, despite the fact that the commission found significant problems, the expedited removal process has been expanded over and over again."
341 2006-02-20 To the Editor:     Thanks to Ted Kerasote for shedding light on the many health problems associated with various purebreds. I can attest to some of those problems, having recently adopted a purebred Himalayan cat....
342 2006-02-20 To the Editor:      Re ''Dogs Like Us,'' by Ted Kerasote (Op-Ed, Feb. 13):...
343 2006-02-21 In an extraordinary run that showed his multisport versatility, he called 7 Super Bowls from 1967 to 1979, 10 consecutive World Series from 1966 to 1975, 12 Rose Bowls, 24 N.C.A.A. men's basketball championship games and 7 Olympics. ABC Sports had wooed him to be the first play-by-play announcer for "Monday Night Football," but NBC would not release him from his contract.

While most of his network assignments were for NBC, he was the host of "The American Sportsman" for ABC. The program played to his lifelong love of the outdoors (a state park is named for him in Wyoming) and served as a counterbalance in pace and content to the high-adrenaline games he called. With no one keeping score, Mr. Gowdy hunted and fished for 20 years with the likes of Bing Crosby; the bandleader Phil Harris; the actors Peter O'Toole and Robert Stack; former President Jimmy Carter and his wife, Rosalynn; and the former Boston Red Sox slugger Ted Williams, one of his closest friends.

"Harris was an excellent wing shot," Mr. Gowdy told The New York Times in 1984 before the program's 20th and final season. "Some years ago, we did a pheasant-hunting show in Nebraska, and he showed up with a 28-gauge Winchester pump. When our Nebraska host saw it, he said, 'Mr. Harris, I'm not being smart, but these Nebraska pheasants are big and tough and you can't bring them down with that little thing.' He was wrong."

Curtis Gowdy was born in Green River, Wyo., where his father, a Union Pacific Railroad superintendent, taught him to hunt and fish.

"I was a very lucky guy," he said in 2002. "I grew up in Wyoming. My father was the best fly fisherman in the state. We had free access to prime-time fishing and hunting. The outdoors was a way of life for me. I should have paid them to host 'American Sportsman.' "

At the University of Wyoming, he was an accomplished basketball and tennis player. A spine injury cut short his Army Air Corps service, enabling him to start his sportscasting career on a radio station in Cheyenne, Wyo. He made his debut standing on a wooden grocery crate, calling a football game between two six-man teams.

Success in Cheyenne led him to Oklahoma, and at a propitious time: Bud Wilkinson was coaching the University of Oklahoma football team and Hank Iba was coaching the basketball team at Oklahoma A&M, which became Oklahoma State.

But it was in New York that Mr. Gowdy truly learned his craft. In 1949 and 1950, he was Mel Allen's partner on Yankees radio broadcasts on WINS-AM. Recalling those years in Curt Smith's book "Voices of the Game," Mr. Gowdy said Mr. Allen taught him "how far from a hotshot I was."

"Timing, organization, reading a commercial -- I had so many bad habits, but Mel's polish helped me learn," Mr. Gowdy said. Rather than linger as an apprentice to the popular Mr. Allen, who died in 1996, Mr. Gowdy wanted to be a baseball team's lead announcer. So he left for Boston, where he called Red Sox games for the next 15 seasons.

Perhaps his most memorable moment as the voice of the Red Sox was his call of Ted Williams's final at-bat in the major leagues, on Sept. 28, 1960:

"Everybody quiet now here at Fenway Park after they gave him a standing ovation of two minutes knowing that this is probably his last time at bat. One out, nobody on, last of the eighth inning. Jack Fisher into his windup, here's the pitch. Williams swings -- and there's a long drive to deep right! The ball is going and it is gone! A home run for Ted Williams in his last time at bat in the major leagues!"

Mr. Gowdy also famously called the Jets' victory in Super Bowl III in 1969 against the heavily favored Baltimore Colts; the game demonstrated to National Football League stalwarts that the upstart American Football League was its equal.

A few months before, Mr. Gowdy and his partner, Al DeRogatis, were involved in the infamous "Heidi" game. The Jets were ahead of the Oakland Raiders, 32-29, with 65 seconds left when NBC, at 7 p.m., switched to a scheduled showing of a film about the Swiss girl Heidi. The Raiders went on to score two touchdowns to win, but Mr. Gowdy's final calls were heard by no one.

"I didn't know we were off the air," Mr. Gowdy said in an interview with The St. Louis Post-Dispatch. "When the game was over, I was packing to get out of there, and the stage manager yelled at me, 'Hey, you've got to do those two touchdowns again!' " Mr. Gowdy quickly returned to the booth to reconstruct his call, which ran on NBC's news programs and on the next morning's "Today" show.

In 1970, he became the first sports broadcaster to win the George Foster Peabody Award. But five years later, NBC forced him off the baseball beat, replacing him with Joe Garagiola a month after Mr. Gowdy called the 1975 World Series. The network denied that its decision had resulted from an accusation by an American League umpire, Larry Barnett, that Mr. Gowdy and Tony Kubek, his broadcast partner during the Series, had partly been responsible for threats on the lives of Mr. Barnett and his family. The announcers, especially Mr. Kubek, said that Mr. Barnett had failed to call interference on a Cincinnati Reds pinch-hitter in Game 3 of the Series against the Red Sox.

Without baseball, Mr. Gowdy fulfilled his NBC contract by calling football and other events before leaving the network to call baseball for CBS Radio.

In later years, he was the host and producer of "The Way It Was," a public television series in which a panel of former players reminisced about great games. He also provided historic commentary for the HBO sports program "Inside the NFL."

Mr. Gowdy became wealthy through his ownership of five radio stations, a business that he started to pursue when a back problem kept him from working for part of the 1957 baseball season and made him wonder if he would return to sportscasting, his son Curt Jr. said. Mr. Gowdy is also survived by his wife, Jerre; another son, Trevor; a daughter, Cheryl Ann; and five grandchildren.

In 2003, Mr. Gowdy returned to Fenway Park to call a Red Sox game against the Yankees as part of an ESPN promotion that brought back great broadcasters. He thought at the end of the game that he could have done better.

"We'll give you another chance," ESPN's Chris Berman said.
344 2006-02-21 It is medicine's eternal quest, these days, to sell impressive science to unimpressed patients, and it is hard to think of a group less equipped to do it than doctors. Doctors are specifically trained not to think like normal people, not to see what others see or to reason as others reason. They -- er, we -- come to operate in an atmosphere so thin, so heady and attenuated with the power of statistical analysis, that one might wonder whether we are really on the same planet as the patients we try to convince of our truths.

"Exercise helps the elderly." The doctor sees, from a perch suspended somewhere up in the sky, a large football field filled with the elderly. There are thousands of them down there, all dressed in sweats and sneakers, dumbbells at their feet. Half of them are using the dumbbells, or are down on their backs, doing leg lifts. The others just stand around.

Over the years, of course, the ranks thin. The doctor watches, counts. It begins to look as if there are more exercisers left. After decades, there are definitely more exercisers. Of course, there are still a few sloths standing around (and one of them looks suspiciously like my mother). But by and large, the exercisers come to rule the field.

That is the view from on high. Down on the field, of course, the view is quite different. You are standing in a thick crowd, minding your own business, living your life, but you cannot help noting that the man over there threw his back out with all that exercise, and the woman next to you, grunting to lift her dumbbell, had a heart attack. You cannot see to the other end of the field and have no idea what is happening there. But watching all the sweating and grunting and seeing some of those exercisers disappear anyway, you decide to opt out.

And when that voice from the sky issues the command, "Exercise!" you say you're too busy.

Who can honestly say one perspective is right and one is wrong? They both have their problems. Up in the sky, it is impossible to distinguish one individual from another. The subjects are identified by sex, race, age, weight, coexisting illnesses, but of course, those variables have little to do with who these people are and what they value, how they prefer to spend their time, what they know about their own bodies.

Down on the field, no one sees anything but the people who happen to be nearby. No big picture there: you know what's going on around you, and nothing else. And if you happen to be in a crowd of exercisers who happen to get no benefit from it, then that is your reality.

And, be it exercise, smoking, diet or medication for any condition you can name, whether you are pro or con boils down to the difference between the same two perspectives.

Good doctors learn some tricks, over the years, to let patients see what they see. It helps, sometimes, to descend part of the way down from the sky and give a smaller version of the big picture. ("Of all my patients, it's the ones who exercise who do the best.") Sometimes it helps to get down completely, and see what the patient sees ("Your grandmother smoked till she was 90, but you may not be so lucky.")

But sometimes there is no convergence of views. The patient who sees only from the ground, the doctor who sees only from the sky may simply have to agree to disagree, and have the same dialogue over and over again.

"You need to get some exercise."

"Not that again. Stop."

"Do you mind if I write a column about you? So others can learn from this ridiculous stalemate?"
345 2006-02-21 I have been inspired recently by the way science challenges the conventional wisdom. This year, two surprising stories have come out of the Women's Health Initiative, a huge study of 49,000 women, one on fat and the other on calcium.

It turns out that a low-fat diet didn't live up to its advance billing as a defense against cancer and heart disease. And calcium didn't prevent broken bones the way it was hoped it would.

These findings are causing a big debate and getting lots of attention. So I've decided to do a major study of my own, part of my continuing effort to bring the world of science and culture together. So far, I can't say that either world appreciates it much. Never mind.

I already have some important findings. Although I didn't realize it at the time, I've been doing a retrospective study my whole life. It just needed a name. So I'm calling it the Liar, Liar, Pants on Fire Survey of Annoying Sayings. My first surprising finding concerns this well-known saying:

Really? What kind of practice would that be? Batting practice? Batting is something baseball players are always practicing, and the best of them are nowhere near perfect. Any hitter would kill for a .400 average, meaning 4 hits in every 10 at bats. Perhaps the saying refers to practicing on a musical instrument. I am told that even the most brilliant musicians are not perfect, although, because of the depths of my own musical imperfection, I can't tell. But even if, say, Joshua Bell did happen to achieve perfection once, we use this saying to browbeat average children into scratching violin strings and banging on pianos. But we know perfectly well none of those children will end up perfect. That's just cruel.

Kids, are you reading this? Adults are lying to you. Nobody's perfect. Practice can make you pretty good, or if you have talent, really good, but try to relax, and remember this saying instead:

"The perfect is the enemy of the good."

Another proverb I have discovered to be wrong is:

"It's not the size of the dog in the fight. It's the size of the fight in the dog."
346 2006-02-21 Oil Prices Surge as Attacks in Nigeria Shut Down One-Fifth of Its Production  Oil prices rose 2.6 percent after a series of militant attacks in the Niger Delta shut down nearly a fifth of Nigeria's oil production. Brent crude oil for April deliver...
347 2006-02-21 The film also shows a woman named Elaine, who admits that she illegally sold enough dogs to Martin Creek Kennel's owner to pay off her mortgage. Some of the dogs were stolen, she said, and no questions were ever asked.

"I feel guilty; Bob doesn't," she says, referring to her husband. "He likes the money. But I think, 'That could be a child's dog.' "

"I don't think that anybody knows about 'B' dealers, that people can buy dogs at county fairs for $15," Tom Simon, a producer of "Dealing Dogs," said in an interview. "The big take-out from this is that the enforcement stinks."

Darby Holladay, a spokesman for the United States Department of Agriculture, which regulates the dealers, said in an interview that 110 veterinary medical officers and animal care inspectors were responsible for inspecting 4,843 Class A breeders (bred on site and sold wholesale), 1,209 Class B dealers, 2,573 exhibitors (a zoo or circus, for example), 1,113 research facilities, 278 intermediate handlers (who transport animals), 180 carriers (like an airline): more than 10,000 licensees and registrants.

"They conduct at least one unannounced annual inspection," Mr. Holladay said. "Several receive more than one inspection. Those who need more inspection get more inspection," as determined by compliance history.

In the case of Martin Creek Kennel, "we did the most we could do" to remedy the situation and to fine the owner, Mr. Holladay said. Federal investigators corroborated all the information obtained by the Last Chance investigation.

Mr. Simon, an independent producer whose credits include the documentary "Inca: Secrets of the Ancestors" on NBC, said he and his fellow "Dealing Dogs" producer, Sarah Teale, obtained Pete's tapes from the Last Chance investigators and began to document his mission to get the goods on the kennel. Pete was then living in Hardy, a small Arkansas town.

"We knew that Pete was in danger," said Ms. Teale, whose previous films for HBO include "Bellevue: Inside Out" and "Mumia Abu Jamal: A Case for Reasonable Doubt?"

"If they had found out he was wearing a wire, they could have been stupid about it and we never would have heard from him again," she said.

Wearing a cap and dark glasses to protect his identity, Pete tells the camera that Martin Creek, near Williford, Ark., owned by C. C. Baird and his family, was known as the "biggest, baddest" Class B operation in the country. The kennel had 600 dogs at any given time, which were sold to universities across the country. The dogs generally were bought for $10 to $20 and sold for $250 to $500.

A vegan who drives a white pickup truck, Pete gets a job hosing the dogs down, joins the Church of Christ where Mr. Baird is a minister and even eats meat with his co-workers to fit in. He shows how dogs spend hours in the wet concrete kennels, without proper medical care. He estimates that five to eight dogs die each week, with the dead dogs sometimes lying undiscovered for long periods.

"When I was 16, I saw a video of animals being slaughtered at various slaughterhouses across the country, and I became a vegetarian the next day," Pete said in a telephone interview about his involvement in the animal rights cause. He could not disclose any details of his life, he said, because he was still working undercover. "To most of my friends, I have a job I don't talk about," he said.

The hardest part of his undercover work, he said, is not being able to help animals that need it. "I've seen animals on the last legs of life, choking on their blood or emaciated or lying under a pile of dead dogs, suffering," he said.

This story, at least, has a happier ending.

Mr. Baird ended up paying $262,700 in civil penalties for "deplorable standards" and other violations at the kennel, and his Class B license was revoked by the U.S.D.A. The fine was the largest penalty in an animal welfare case since the passage of the 1966 Animal Welfare Act, Mr. Holladay said.

Additionally, Mr. Baird pleaded guilty last year in Little Rock in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas to conspiracy to launder money and to falsifying purchase records in a mail fraud scheme in the sale of the dogs to research laboratories, said United States Department of Justice officials. As part of their plea agreement, Mr. Baird and his wife, Patsy, surrendered 700 acres of land worth $1.1 million, including their home and the kennels. They also forfeited $200,000 in cash and reimbursed $42,400 to animal rescue groups who cared for the dogs taken by federal agents in 2003.

Chris DeRose, the founder and president of Last Chance for Animals, said he hoped "Dealing Dogs" would speed the passage of the Pet Safety and Protection Act, which amends the Animal Welfare Act to ensure that dogs and cats used by research facilities are obtained legally. "We want to put them out of business," Mr. DeRose said of the crooked Class B dealers.
348 2006-02-21 The Food and Drug Administration will soon decide whether to accept the advisory panel's advice and require a strong warning on the drugs' labels.

Doctors who treat adults and children with stimulants like Ritalin and Adderall say the risk is remote, given that an estimated 2.5 million children and 1.5 million adults are taking the medications, and a handful of them will die suddenly each year, whether taking drugs or not.

But psychiatrists and cardiologists say that people with high blood pressure, heart murmurs or other cardiovascular problems should talk to their doctors to determine whether they need to be more closely monitored or should taper off the drugs altogether.

"Ideally, doctors should be screening patients for these things up front, before prescribing the drugs," said Dr. James Waxmonsky, a psychiatrist at the University at Buffalo, part of the State University of New York.

Some panel members expressed concerns about children with structural heart abnormalities who might be given stimulants. Perhaps the most common abnormality is hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy, a thickening of the muscle that can cause a blockage -- and death -- when under stress.

Such problems are often not diagnosed before drug treatment begins, but a good pediatrician who is aware a child is being considered for stimulant treatment will often pick up a soft heart murmur that might reflect an abnormality, said Dr. Steven Nissen, chief of cardiology at the Cleveland Clinic and a panel member. "This seemingly small step could save a life," he said.

Norine Eaton, 50, of Williamsville, N.Y., who has been on stimulants for attention problems for six years and who has two teenage sons on the medications, said she read about the panel's warning in a newspaper article.

"If I had any family history of heart disease, I would absolutely have stood up and called my doctor," she said in a telephone interview, "but I have not noticed any heart problems in myself or my sons."

The biggest worry for adults is high blood pressure. Stimulants usually prompt slight increases in heart rate and raise blood pressure, and even these changes can increase the risk of heart problems in someone who is vulnerable, Dr. Nissen said.

Adults with hypertension who are considering the drugs should have their blood pressure stabilized first, doctors say.

"A smoker with high cholesterol and a family history of heart disease: that's a person I would be very concerned about taking stimulants," Dr. Nissen said.

Lew Mills, 49, a therapist in San Francisco who takes a stimulant for attention-deficit disorder, said he first worried about the drugs' effect about a year and a half ago, when he was moving after a divorce and felt overwhelmed by stress. He said he went to a doctor and found that his blood pressure was elevated. "I was concerned that the medicine was adding to the blood pressure problem," he said.

But Dr. Mills said that he stayed on the stimulants and resumed exercising, and that once the divorce was complete, his blood pressure soon returned to normal.

Dr. Wilens of Massachusetts General has just completed a study of 13 men and women, ages 20 to 55, being treated for high blood pressure who were also taking Adderall, a strong stimulant.

The patients spent six weeks on Adderall and two weeks off, while doctors monitored their blood pressure.

Two of them had mild increases in blood pressure, one while taking the stimulant and the other while not.

"It's a small study, but we found the same rate of symptoms" whether people were on the stimulants or not, said Dr. Wilens, who consults widely with drug makers.

Answers to just a few questions can tell a doctor a lot about a person's risk. Are there any congenital or structural heart defects? Are there unexplained bouts of dizziness or heart palpitations? Is there any family history of heart disease, in particular sudden deaths in close relatives who died young?

Doctors considering stimulant treatment should be asking all these questions. And if the answers are not forthcoming -- many parents have no idea if a child has an underlying heart abnormality, for example -- at least families will be aware of possible risks and can investigate further.

"Over all, I think some type of warning is a good idea, and it does lead to more in-depth discussions between doctors and families," Dr. Waxmonsky said in an e-mail message. "However, it would be helpful to know what the exact risk is so that we could provide patients with some meaningful numbers instead of just theoretical concerns."

William Pelham, a psychologist at the University at Buffalo who studies psychosocial treatments for attention-deficit disorder, said that a warning might also prompt parents to consider addressing the problem without drugs. "As it is, most parents don't even hear about the alternatives to medication," he said.

In a recent trial that involved 154 children, most of them on stimulants, Dr. Pelham found that an intensive summer-long course of behavior modification allowed most parents to reduce the level of drugs their children were taking or wean them off the medication altogether.

Still, many patients say they will take their chances with stimulants even if they have heart problems in their families.

Joseph Neal, 29, a student and Web designer in Nashville, said he had totaled two cars as a result of attention-deficit problems. "Quite simply, it is not safe for me to operate a motor vehicle while unmedicated," he wrote in an e-mail message.

He said he found the concerns over rare side effects "quite absurd."

"I need these medications to be a fully functional human being," Mr. Neal said. "If there was a one-in-four chance that I'd grow a second head, I'd take it. Besides, the second head might work better."
349 2006-02-21 Part of the answer is that while interest rates are low, hedge funds are able to lend money at sky-high rates. SageCrest, for example, charges LawCash 16 percent annually for what it borrows. But the trend also reflects the fact that as some 8,000 hedge funds look for ways to put their billions of dollars to work, they are pushing further into uncharted territories in search of high returns.

"Hedge funds seem to be sticking their nose into just about everything these days," said Charles M. Roame, managing principal of Tiburon Strategic Advisors, a San Francisco management consultant to financial services companies. "They're in every crazy asset class you can think of" including bottles of wine, paintings and coin collections, he said. "The esoteric-ness of the alternative investments just keeps getting more and more esoteric."

Lending, an old and seemingly ho-hum business, is now one of the hottest new investments for hedge funds. The funds are making investments in consumer credit card debt and specialty finance companies, and are going head-to-head with banks to provide loans to small companies and even individuals.

"We have seen phenomenal growth in the last couple of years in hedge funds expanding their horizons to the credit space," said Chad Leat, head of global credit markets at Citigroup. "It wasn't that long ago that they were thought to be long-short equity investors."

Besides hoping for a big payoff in these types of loans, hedge funds are also seeking returns that are not related to movements in the stock or even bond markets.

"In the past several years, the hedge fund industry has undergone dynamic changes where managers are seeking to utilize strategies which do not correlate to traditional market gyrations," said Ron Geffner, a lawyer at the New York law firm of Sadis & Goldberg.

Besides trading weather derivatives and complex life insurance products, some of Mr. Geffner's clients are preparing to start hedge funds that will invest in class-action lawsuits and precious coins.

The greatest activity by hedge funds has been in the credit business. Last spring, Citadel Investment Group, a $12 billion Chicago-based hedge fund, was part of a group that made a £275 million loan (about $475 million) to Malcolm Glazer to finance his takeover of the Manchester United soccer club. And in October, Och-Ziff Capital Management and Farallon Capital Management, two hedge funds known for unusual investing, lent $64 million to Pay By Touch, a San Francisco-based company that sells devices to make payments using a fingerprint.

"Pay By Touch has found that hedge funds are a better fit with our capital needs, providing us with both flexibility and lower dilution for our existing investors," said Gus Spanos, the company's chief financial officer, in an e-mail message.

Market participants say the entry of hedge funds has increased the availability of money in the market. As a result, small and midsize companies may have greater access to loans at a time when most big banks have abandoned that market.

It is unclear how long this will last. While some hedge funds have long-time horizons for their investments, the majority are known for moving rapidly in and out of sectors as they seek the next great investment idea. And hedge fund investors have the ability to redeem their investments, which could force a hedge fund to exit a business sooner than it would necessarily like to raise money.

The more important issue for hedge funds as they venture further out on the risk scale is what types of loans and investments are appropriate. In one case, Citadel and Wells Fargo Foothill got into a legal tangle after making a $60 million loan in 2000 to Jack Abramoff, the lobbyist who has since been indicted, to help him buy SunCruz, a company that operated floating casinos in Florida. When SunCruz went bankrupt and the loan went unpaid, Citadel sued Wells Fargo Foothill, Mr. Abramoff and other parties, claiming it had been defrauded out of its investment. Eventually, the case was settled out of court for an undisclosed amount.

Still, the promise of tantalizing returns continues to attract hedge fund money to some of the far-out sectors of lending, like LawCash.

LawCash, started in the late 1990's with $3 million in equity, is risky and -- like the industry over all -- unprofitable so far, the company's chief executive, said Dennis Shields, and the co-founder, Harvey R. Hirschfeld. From a small, windowless office, where seascape prints hang on the walls and stacks of cans of Dr. Brown's soda line the small kitchen, they said the company advances money only to claimants who have filed personal-injury suits and who have lawyers.

LawCash's borrowers need no collateral. More than 70 percent of the time, clients need cash to prevent foreclosure on their homes or apartments. If the case is settled, LawCash receives a share of the claim proceeds to cover its principal and its fees. If the individual drops the case, LawCash loses its investment.

"It's a great product for hedge funds," said Mr. Shields. "They can get the yield they need and people benefit from it."

While consumers pay high rates for the money -- usually about 24 to 45 percent a year -- Mr. Shields said the company was borrowing money itself at a rate of about 18.5 percent. Hoping to reduce that rate, it struck a deal with SageCrest for a line of credit at 16 percent. SageCrest did not return a call seeking comment.

It was not LawCash's first dealings with a hedge fund. In 2003 and 2004, LawCash sold a portfolio of $4 million in advances it had already made to clients to Fortress Investment Group, a $5.5 billion hedge fund. Fortress made a 31 percent return on the investment, Mr. Shields claimed. "We didn't make money," he said. "Fortress made money."

Mr. Hirschfeld said another hedge fund manager laughed when he heard the size of the loans, suggesting that LawCash call again when it needed $50 million, not $5 million. "They would give us a loan if we wanted to buy Peru," Mr. Hirschfeld said. "But not $5 million."
350 2006-02-21 Analysts say that workers are too caught up with buying the latest gadgets, forgetting that their data is far more valuable than the device it runs on.

That is why some companies, realizing the potential for damage, are getting ahead on mobile security by actually buying small gadgets for their employees, albeit with security strings attached. Seitlin, a small insurance brokerage based in Miami, illustrates the point.

The firm decided to buy Palm Treo cellphone-organizers for about 30 of its 250 employees. The company could then dictate what data was stored on the devices, and it could install software to monitor them from afar and even lock them over the air if they fell into the wrong hands, said Ed Whipple, the company's vice president for sales and technology.

Seitlin sales agents, rather than carry client records on their Treos, must use a Web site to access claims histories and other private information. These files can be viewed but not stored on the devices through an online service called Nexsure from XDimensional Technologies. If an agent on the road is offline and needs information about a client, he calls the office for it, Mr. Whipple said.

If an employee reports that his cellphone is stolen, Mr. Whipple can send a text message to the device, which locks it and asks for a security code, using software called Butler. If the security code is not entered immediately, the memory on the device is wiped clean.

The catch is that the Treo must be turned on and transmitting over a wireless or cellular network for Butler to work. For this reason, some companies set up their devices to store all data on a removable SD memory card, which scrambles the data and renders it useless if the card is removed.

Seitlin also uses software from Intellisync that allows Treos to act like BlackBerry devices and automatically send e-mail messages without the user having to manually download them. This also allows the devices to stay synchronized with a server in the office.

"That's the beautiful thing," Mr. Whipple said. "If I drop my Treo in the water tomorrow, I can go out and buy another one," and the technology department can rebuild the software on a new one to look just like the old one, including all his personal contacts and calendars. This can be done in minutes over the air.

John Pescatore, a security analyst at Gartner, a market research company, said that forcing all users to synchronize their data to a single server over the air has another benefit over letting them use their office PC's for backing up data: it creates a log of all information moving to and from the devices. Monitoring software can be set up to search through the data exchanges to make sure no confidential data passes to unauthorized devices, he said.

Mr. Pescatore expects this year to be a turning point for mobile security, in the same way that personal firewalls and antivirus software on PC's gained importance early in the decade because of viruses like I Love You and Melissa. "The market doesn't demand security until something bad happens," he said.

Of course, security breaches get the most attention when they happen at big companies. But as hardware and software prices have dropped in recent years, small businesses are catching up to larger ones in terms of technology -- and vulnerability.

By the end of the year, smart phones with so much storage and processing power will represent about half of all cellphones in the United States, compared with about 30 percent today, Mr. Pescatore said. The proliferation could get people in the habit of sending one another executable files like games, which can carry viruses.

More than that, the success of devices that use Microsoft's mobile operating system will mean a decline in the diversity of software, Mr. Pescatore added. Just as Microsoft's domination in PC's made it attractive for programmers to write viruses for Windows, the same could happen to hand-held devices.

In computing, as in nature, diversity is the great inoculator.

A Way to Foil Theft of Data When employees buy their own hand-held devices and store company files on them, there is a risk that sensitive data will fall into the wrong hands. By buying equipment centrally for employees, companies can set the devices to:

Lock automatically if the wrong password is used. Restrict what kinds of files can be saved. Allow for over-the-air monitoring and erasing. Synchronize data to a single server so that inbound and outbound files can be tracked.
351 2006-02-21 ''Eight Below'' (Buena Vista), an Antarctic survival picture starring Paul Walker and Jason Biggs -- and a team of abandoned sled dogs that are the ones doing the surviving -- was the top film over Presidents' Day weekend, with an estimated $25 mi...
352 2006-02-21 A depressed woman is more likely to be delinquent about prenatal care. She may miss doctor appointments, eat and sleep poorly, fail to take vitamins, have difficulty forming a healthy attachment to her unborn child, and experience stress that can expose the fetus to harmful levels of hormones and neurotransmitters.

To alleviate depressed feelings, some women may turn to alcohol or cigarettes, which themselves can harm an unborn child.

Untreated depression during pregnancy has been linked to higher rates of miscarriage, stillbirths, premature deliveries, intrauterine growth restriction and low-birth-weight babies. Though they often catch up early in life, babies born smaller than they should be for their gestational age face higher than average rates of high blood pressure and heart disease as adults.

The untreated depression can also damage a woman's relationship with her spouse and other children. The inability of a depressed person to cope well with stresses, however small, can result in undue irritability and impatience.

Finally, depression is unlikely to end once the baby is born. As Dr. Shaila Kulkarni Misri noted in her recent book, "Pregnancy Blues" (Delacorte Press, $23), "If depression goes untreated during pregnancy, it will worsen and more than likely continue postpartum."

Postpartum depression not only robs a woman of the joy of having a new baby, it can seriously impair her ability to nurse and care for the infant, and it prompts some women to harm the baby.

A woman taking antidepressants before becoming pregnant may assume that the safest course is to stop the medication until the baby is born or after she stops nursing. But a study published Feb. 1 in The Journal of the American Medical Association found that such an interruption greatly increased the chance that major depression would recur during the pregnancy.

Even stopping treatment only for the first 12 weeks, when the baby's organs are forming, increased the chance of a relapse, the researchers, headed by Dr. Lee S. Cohen, perinatal psychiatrist at Massachusetts General Hospital, found.

Dr. Misri emphasizes that pregnancy, "far from being protective against psychiatric illness, as many continue to believe, can actually trigger depression for the first time, exacerbate an already existing condition, or cause the relapse of a depression that had previously been under control."

She calls pregnancy-related depression "an equal-opportunity illness" that can strike any woman, rich or poor, socially well-connected or isolated, previously healthy or suffering from years of recurrent depressions.

Two new studies have raised questions about the safety of leading antidepressants during pregnancy, the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or S.S.R.I.'s, like Prozac and Zoloft.

One study, published in February in The Archives of Pediatric & Adolescent Medicine, examined 60 newborns who had been exposed in utero to S.S.R.I.'s. Eighteen of them showed mild to severe signs of "neonatal abstinence syndrome" -- withdrawal from the drugs at birth.

Symptoms included high-pitched crying, disturbed sleep, feeding difficulties, tremor and muscular stiffness that lasted a week or two. The effects were dose-related, and the drug Paxil, a longer-acting S.S.R.I., was linked to the most severe symptoms.

The researchers, headed by Dr. Rachel Levinson-Castiel of the Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel, recommended that infants exposed in utero to S.S.R.I.'s be kept in the hospital for observation for at least 48 hours or until symptoms subside.

The second study, published Feb. 9 in The New England Journal of Medicine, highlighted a rarer though more serious risk: the development of persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn, or P.P.H.N. With it, the baby fails to convert from fetal circulation, when oxygen and nutrients are supplied by the mother through the placenta. A baby with the disorder breathes normally but the blood supply bypasses the lungs because pressure there is too high.

The researchers, headed by Christina D. Chambers of the University of California, San Diego, examined 377 women whose infants had the disorder and 836 matched control women and their healthy babies. Fourteen infants with the disorder had been exposed to S.S.R.I.'s after the 20th week of gestation, compared with six infants in the control group. This meant that exposure to an S.S.R.I. after the midpoint of pregnancy raised the chances that the baby would develop the disorder by a factor of six.

An earlier study by the University of Pittsburgh found that about 1 percent of babies exposed to antidepressants in the last third of pregnancy developed serious respiratory problems.

The California researchers emphasized that the "absolute risk" that a baby exposed to S.S.R.I.'s would develop the hypertension disorder was extremely low: "about 99 percent of women exposed to one of these medications late in pregnancy will deliver an infant unaffected." Still, they urged that this risk be factored in when deciding to take an S.S.R.I. late in pregnancy.

The risk has to be weighed against a possibility of a relapse of depression and postpartum depression if the drug is stopped in the third trimester .

There are, of course, other drugs to alleviate depression, and the safest are the tricyclic antidepressants. Although these drugs have more discomforting side effects, neither they nor the S.S.R.I.'s cause birth defects or lasting developmental harm to children exposed in utero, long-term studies show.

These studies found no significant effect of in-utero exposure to the trycyclics S.S.R.I.'s on I.Q., language development or behavioral development among children followed to age 7.

PERSONAL HEALTH Correction: March 3, 2006, Friday The Personal Health column in Science Times on Feb. 21, about depression and pregnancy, used an incorrect estimate from a medical journal for the number of women affected. As many as 800,000 women in the United States each year suffer moderate to severe depression during pregnancy -- not 80,000.
353 2006-02-22 The Chicago Tribune performs triage on the motives on a trio of folks responsible for "Corpse Bride," "Crash" and "History of Violence," and finds out that, "An Oscar's nice if you can get it, but awards or peer recognition can't hold a candle to ...
354 2006-02-22 The two iconic shirts from the final scene of ''Brokeback Mountain,'' which was nominated for eight Academy Awards, sold for a staggering $101,100.51 to a Hollywood collector, after an auction on eBay on Monday night. In the Ang Lee film, and the ...
355 2006-02-22 "This election has become a plebiscite on whether Museveni should stay or go," said S. K. Simba, a political science professor at Makerere University here in the capital. "It's not about issues other than that."

It took Mr. Museveni 10 years after taking office to create a constitution and hold elections, and even then, opposition parties were not allowed to run. It then took nine more years to introduce multiparty democracy. And when his second term neared an end last year, he pushed through a constitutional amendment allowing him to run for another five-year term.

Even if he loses, some doubt that he will actually go. "You don't just tell the freedom fighter to go, like you are chasing a chicken thief out of the house," he said at a campaign rally in January.

He seemed to amend that sentiment last week, suggesting that on the off chance that he loses, he will return to the life he had before entering politics. "My cows are waiting for me," he said.

There are plenty of issues that should be central to the race. The capital is plunged into darkness every other day, the result of a dire electricity shortage. A 20-year war in the country's north, against a brutal rebel group called the Lord's Resistance Army, continues to terrorize the local population. Poverty lingers, and corruption is considered a plague.

But the slugfest between Mr. Museveni (pronounced Mu-SEVEN-ee) and Mr. Besigye (pronounced BESA-gee), former friends and rebel comrades who fell out after Mr. Besigye began questioning the president's rule, has drowned out everything else.

Backers of Mr. Museveni's National Resistance Movement have questioned whether Mr. Besigye, a doctor who used to be the president's personal physician, really finished primary school. Mr. Besigye's Forum for Democratic Change has accused the president of offering several hundred thousand dollars to two senior judges to encourage them to keep the candidate in jail.

Then their spouses got involved. The president threatened to sue Mr. Besigye's wife, Winnie Byanyima, for libel for making the bribery allegations. Ms. Byanyima struck out at Mr. Museveni's wife, Janet, who is running for Parliament and has condemned opposition candidates for insulting her husband.

"If you can't stand the heat, you get out of the kitchen," Ms. Byanyima said of Mrs. Museveni. "She has absolutely no moral basis to complain about the few missiles fired at her husband, who has continuously insulted and threatened opposition leaders."

As if that were not enough, Ms. Byanyima, who is a former girlfriend of the president, threatened to reveal embarrassing secrets about him if he continued throwing mud.

Amid the volley of insults have been physical clashes. Unknown assailants fired on Mr. Museveni's motorcade, and a military reservist killed three opposition supporters near one of Mr. Besigye's campaign rallies.

Mr. Museveni blames irresponsible opposition activists for the violence and links Mr. Besigye, one of five candidates vying for the presidency, with terrorist organizations. "They think they can intimidate people to nullify the huge movement support," he said.

Mr. Besigye contends that Mr. Museveni has begun a "terror campaign" against his presidential bid. Mr. Besigye finished a distant second to Mr. Museveni in the last election, in 2001, and then fled into exile in South Africa, saying his life was threatened. He returned last year and drew large crowds around the country.

Ronald Ssekito, 24, raised two fingers in the air at the president at a campaign rally at Makerere University this week, a bold gesture indicating that he backs Mr. Besigye. "We need jobs," he said, explaining that he will graduate next year and does not want to join his two brothers as unemployed university graduates.

Paul Karatunga, 21, at the same rally, was putting his thumb in the air, the sign for Mr. Museveni's party. "You remember what the country was like before the movement?" he asked, evoking the chaotic days before he was born. "We don't want that anymore."

Despite the country's progress, there are fears that Mr. Museveni has not done enough to entrench democracy. Donors have already pulled financing from the country to protest his strong-arm tactics.

"I wouldn't say we are moving in a straight line from totalitarianism to democracy and that it's irreversible," said Mr. Simba, who teaches a course on democracy and human rights. "We have developments that are in both directions."

Mr. Museveni brushes off the criticism and expresses confidence that his government will prevail at the polls, just as it has in the past. If foreign donors have grown tired of him, he suggests, so be it.

"We, the freedom fighters of Africa, lost confidence long ago in the international community," he told reporters last week at his ranch in western Uganda. "If the international community has lost confidence in us, then that is a compliment, because they are habitually wrong."
356 2006-02-22 Five of six suspects accused of murdering a Kazakh opposition leader are members of an elite unit within Kazakhstan's intelligence agency, the government said, casting fresh suspicions over the second mysterious death of a prominent opposition fig...
357 2006-02-22 In an effort to improve outcomes for the rising number of women who get temporary diabetes during pregnancy, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced yesterday that the city would routinely send information packets about the condition to all women who get the disorder.

Speaking at the health department's district office in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, a community ravaged by the surge in diabetes and its harrowing complications, Mr. Bloomberg called the effort, aimed at so-called gestational diabetes, "an unprecedented outreach program." He portrayed it as part of an evolving wider campaign to confront diabetes, the only major disease that is growing in the city.

The program follows closely on the heels of the city's plan requiring laboratories to furnish the health department with blood sugar tests of diabetics--known as A1c tests -- so that it can track management of the illness and mount interventions.

The packet to new mothers includes a letter (in English, Spanish, Chinese and Urdu) from Thomas R. Frieden, the health commissioner, that begins, "Congratulations on your new baby!" and follows with a warning about gestational diabetes and preventive steps for mother and infant to stave off permanent diabetes ("lose weight," "get more physical activity," "limit TV, video and computer games that keep your child from moving").

Besides these communications, Mr. Bloomberg said that the health department would also remind more than 30,000 doctors, nurses and midwives, among other health care providers, to screen for gestational diabetes, discuss the risks with pregnant women and urge appropriate changes in behavior.
358 2006-02-22 To the Editor:      You do a great disservice to your readers by having them believe that fish is the only source of omega-3 fatty acids. Why is there no mention of the plant sources? Flax seeds, evening primrose and borage oils, broccoli, spinach...
359 2006-02-22 Charlie McGreevy, who oversees the European single market, strongly criticized Poland, France and Luxembourg, accusing them of unfairly seeking to stop cross-border deals. Mr. McCreevy, left, the commissioner for the internal market, said moves by...
360 2006-02-22 Joanne Beretta could be the salty next-door neighbor who has lived in your Greenwich Village apartment building for decades and mellowed into a garrulous repository of local bohemian lore -- in her case, the area's cabaret life, in which she was once a vital participant. Now, after years of retirement from nightclubs, she has returned to Danny's Skylight Room with the pianist Franklin Underwood in a program that mixes songs, personal anecdotes, outspoken political rants and comedy.

Her songs and stories merge into a semi-improvisatory shtick that epitomizes the stage-is-my-living-room style of cabaret entertainment that flourished in New York in the 1950's and 60's and still percolates mostly below the radar in clubs like Danny's and the Duplex.

I never saw Ms. Beretta in the 60's and 70's when she was a cabaret cult figure. But at this point in her career, musical finesse has much less to do with her appeal than personality. Technically, her singing is ragged and shaky, if a bit more secure at the lower end than at the top; Mr. Underwood provides rudimentary piano support. But those restrictions didn't prevent Ms. Beretta on Friday evening from turning lyrics into bluntly personal, upbeat statements that redefined the perspectives of some famous songs.

Bob Dylan's "Just Like a Woman," translated into the first person singular, became the confession of a mature woman admitting she could still "break just like a little girl."

Joni Mitchell's signature torch song, "A Case of You," ended on a note of triumph in which the final words, "I could drink a case of you and still be on my feet," became an assertion of having no regrets. Judy Collins's "Since You Asked" came across as a satisfied look back at life's journey; the Beatles' "Across the Universe" as an even more emphatic life-loving affirmation.

Ms. Beretta can be amusing. If her political jokes were already late-night clichés, her ominous German-accented rendition of "These Boots Are Made for Walking" as an ersatz Brecht-Weill number aggressively tickled the song's funny bone.
361 2006-02-22 Testimony in the case is set to continue on Thursday, and a decision is not expected until March 17, said Norman Siegel, one of the lawyers representing Captain Adams.

The case is fraught with political overtones from the last election and is resurrecting an issue that has receded from the public eye.

On Thursday, Oct. 7, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly, along with the chief of the F.B.I. office in New York, announced the terror threat about an hour before a mayoral debate in Harlem that the mayor had already chosen not to attend..

There is little dispute that the city waited to alert the public about the threat. City officials have said Washington asked them to hold back while federal authorities pursued leads overseas. The issue in Captain Adams's trial is whether he was out of line in criticizing the city's response and incorrect in his chronology.

Days after the alert was made public, Captain Adams, who had endorsed the mayor's Democratic challenger, Fernando Ferrer, said he suspected Mr. Bloomberg had timed the announcement to divert attention from his decision to skip the debate, a notion the Bloomberg administration dismissed.

Captain Adams, who is set to retire on March 17 after a 22-year career and plans to run for a seat in the State Senate, was served with departmental charges in December.

He is charged with appearing on the TV program as a representative of the Police department and speaking without permission on official department business. He has also been accused of conduct "prejudicial to the good order, efficiency or discipline of the department by disseminating misinformation to the public regarding this N.Y.P.D. operation."

If the charges are upheld, Captain Adams will face discipline, possibly suspension, demotion or firing, which would jeopardize his pension.

But in opening arguments before Michael D. Sarner, assistant deputy commissioner of trials, Mr. Siegel said that Captain Adams did not need permission from the Police Department to appear on the show. "The comments are First Amendment protected," he said, adding that the issue of free speech was at the "core" of the case. Mr. Siegel, one of Captain Adams's lawyers, said that Captain Adams was speaking as accurately as he could on the television show.

The testimony of one witness for the department was embraced by Captain Adams and his defense team. The witness, Deputy Inspector Theresa J. Shortell, commanding officer of the Sixth Precinct, said her commanders did not brief her about the specifics of the threat. She also said that on the night of the alert, a platoon of about 15 officers was held over on overtime for about two hours in the precinct but not deployed.

But Capt. Andrew D'Amora, the commanding officer of the operations unit, testified that hundreds of additional police officers were sent to subway stations on Oct. 6, the day of the announcement, but acknowledged on cross-examination that most of those officers had been sent to stations in Lower Manhattan. In the television interview, Captain Adams was introduced as a leader of 100 Blacks in Law Enforcement Who Care, and Mr. Siegel said it was clear he was speaking as a critic of the department. But during the interview, Captain Adams portrayed himself as a captain who had information about the department's response and believed it to be wrong.

"When we first found out about this incident on Monday, we should have immediately deployed police to the transit location," he said during the interview.

Correction: February 24, 2006, Friday An article on Wednesday about charges against Capt. Eric Adams, a police commander on departmental trial for criticism of New York City's response to a terrorist threat last fall, referred incorrectly at one point to the date the city announced the threat. It was Oct. 6, as noted elsewhere in the article, not Oct. 7.
362 2006-02-22 A former business owner from Brooklyn pleaded guilty yesterday to failing to report more than $1.9 million in income he received between 1998 and 2001, said Christopher J. Christie, the United States attorney. The man, Abie Moskowitz, 56, admitted...
363 2006-02-22 President Says He Would Veto Legislation to Prevent Port Deal  President Bush, trying to put down a rapidly escalating rebellion among leaders of his own party, declared that he would veto any legislation that blocks a deal by a government-owned c...
364 2006-02-22 Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn met yesterday with dozens of Council workers, seeking to smooth over relations and boost their morale after she abruptly dismissed 61 people -- about one-fifth of the central staff -- on Friday.

Ms. Quinn spent several hours meeting with every division at the Council's offices at 250 Broadway, across the street from City Hall, Council aides said. But when asked directly by a staff member, she refused to rule out additional action, said several people who attended the meetings.

Maria Alvarado, a spokeswoman for Ms. Quinn, said later that there would not be a second round of mass dismissals. Ms. Quinn's aides have said the Council is in the midst of a "significant restructuring."

While Ms. Quinn is certainly not the first speaker to clean house to make room for her own supporters, the extent of the dismissals and the manner in which they were carried out caught many by surprise.

Among those who lost their jobs were Larian Angelo, the finance director, and 17 members of the budget department, as well as secretaries, receptionists and lawyers. The employees received hand-delivered letters, were locked out of their computers within the hour, and were told to leave by the end of the day.

Ms. Quinn is expected to replace Ms. Angelo with Michael P. Keogh, who worked most recently for the mayor's Office of State Legislative Affairs. Mr. Keogh's wife, Karen Persichilli Keogh, is a top aide to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton.

Ms. Quinn was elected last month with the support of the Democratic organizations in Queens, Brooklyn and the Bronx, and has already started hiring party loyalists in return for their support, several council members and lobbyists said.
365 2006-02-22 An agency's poor choice of words in a news release yesterday led its parent to issue a hasty clarification.     In the release, Howard, Merrell & Partners in Raleigh, N.C., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, said it had withdrawn from con...
366 2006-02-22 SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 21 - In a sign of the video game industry's continuing struggles, Electronic Arts said on Tuesday that it planned to sell its much-awaited Godfather video game next month for $39.95, which is 20 percent less than it typically prices new games.

The discount strategy is the latest disappointment for Electronic Arts surrounding the game, which is based on the Godfather movie and book, and which the company spent $10 million to $20 million to develop in hopes of creating a blockbuster.

The game was supposed to be in stores for the holiday selling season, but Electronic Arts said its developers needed more time. The game goes on sale March 21, the company said.

The company said a side effect of the delay is that consumers may be less eager to buy the game, because, the company said, the game industry is in a transition to a new generation of gaming consoles and customers may be delaying purchases of games until they buy an Xbox 360 or a Playstation III, which is due in stores later this year.

"There's pricing pressure as you go from one console transition to the next," and $39.95 "is the right price given the transition dynamics," said Tammy Schachter, a spokeswoman for Electronic Arts.
367 2006-02-22 WASHINGTON, Feb. 21 - The head of a leading gay rights advocacy group in New York has begun criticizing Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's position on same-sex marriage and encouraging gays and lesbians to stop giving money to her re-election campaign.

In a memorandum to board members, Alan Van Capelle, the executive director of the group, the Empire State Pride Agenda, said Mrs. Clinton was "a complete disappointment," taking issue with her opposition to same-sex marriage and her support for a proposed constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage known as the Defense of Marriage Act.

In his memo, which was reported on Tuesday on the Politicker Web site of The New York Observer, Mr. Van Capelle said that he refused to "lend my name and sell tickets" to any fund-raiser sponsored by a gay group for Mrs. Clinton's re-election campaign. He said supporting such fund-raisers for Mrs. Clinton would "actually hurt" the gay and lesbian community.

"It will send a message to other elected officials that you can be working against us during this critical time and not suffer a negative pushback from the gay community," he said. "We have become a community that throws money at politicians, and we demand nothing in return. And that's what we get: nothing. It's the wrong message to send."

Mrs. Clinton's advisers countered that her support within the gay community runs deep, noting that a fund-raising event planned for next month will have prominent gay politicians and activists as hosts, including Christine C. Quinn, the New York City Council speaker, and Ethan Geto, a well-known lobbyist.
368 2006-02-22 Hoping to improve the way charitable groups handle their disaster responses, Microsoft is donating $41 million in software and cash to two groups of humanitarian agencies to foster collaboration and communication.

The grants will be used to upgrade technology systems that have been pieced together over decades, assess the groups' technology needs and create forums online so they can exchange information and work on problems together.

The intent is to bring together executives responsible for the technology needs of their organizations and those in charge of orchestrating responses to emergencies.

One of the groups, NetHope, represents 17 relief organizations and seeks to promote the best use of technology for humanitarian purposes. The other recipient, the International Working Group on Emergency Capacity Building, is a consortium of seven humanitarian groups focused on improving disaster response.

"With the chief information officers and program leaders working together, they'll hopefully get more impact out of the new technology we're providing," said Pamela Passman, vice president of global corporate affairs for Microsoft.
369 2006-02-22 A 21-year-old man was arraigned yesterday on cruelty to animal charges after 20 mistreated pit bulls, apparently used for fighting, were found in his yard, the Nassau County police said. On Monday, the police received a report from an official wit...
370 2006-02-22 On a slow day, like last Friday, Robert Schaeffer of FairTest handled calls from The Honolulu Star-Bulletin, Lakeland Ledger, Associated Press and Hartford Courant and Bloomberg News.

On busy days, like July 13, 2004, reporters call by the dozens. That was the day FairTest helped reveal that scoring mistakes by the Educational Testing Service on its teacher licensing test had caused 4,100 men and women in 18 states to fail when they had actually passed the exam.

A few years ago, California officials were considering ending their support of the National Merit Scholarship program because it relied exclusively on a single score on the College Board's PSAT test to pick semifinalists.

"We contacted the College Board about validity and fairness studies of the PSAT, but they didn't give us information that addressed our concerns," said Michael Brown, chairman of a state committee that makes recommendations on admissions policy for California's public colleges. "So I asked FairTest, which got back with significant information on the limited reliability of a single PSAT score."

Last year, the University of California system ended its financial support of the National Merit program.

But for all FairTest's impact, its days may be numbered. Never before has standardized testing so dominated American public education, thanks to the 2002 federal No Child Left Behind Law. Every child from grade 3 to high school must now take state tests. And the Bush administration is considering extending those tests to colleges.

"With N.C.L.B., a lot of people feel the debate is over," said Monty Neill, director of FairTest, officially the National Center for Fair and Open Testing. "The attitude seems to be, 'Testing is so pervasive, what's the point?' " Support from foundations has virtually dried up and individual donations have not made up the difference. "Our board has seriously discussed whether to fold the operation," Mr. Neill said.

Mr. Toch, Mr. Hiss and Mr. Brown all said this would be a major loss.

"There is no watchdog over the testing industry except FairTest," Mr. Brown said.

Christopher Hooker-Haring, dean of admissions at Muhlenberg College, called FairTest "an important voice that pushes back against the test mania in the U.S."

(This reporter and several others at The New York Times have used FairTest as a source through the years. And last fall, after more than a dozen major publications had reviewed this reporter's children's novel, FairTest also reviewed it, in a newsletter, along with several other children's books with testing themes.)Four companies -- Pearson, McGraw Hill, Harcourt and Houghton Mifflin -- along with the nonprofit Educational Testing Service, dominate the nation's $2.3 billion testing industry. They will shed no tears if FairTest disappears.

Kurt Landgraf, the president of the testing service, which administers the SAT, wrote in an e-mail message: "Perhaps if they had been more attuned to the public's support for using tests to help teachers teach and students learn, then they might have had wider support."

The companies criticize FairTest for dwelling on testing mistakes, which they say are minor compared with all the successfully administered exams. Privately, they call it NoTest, complaining that the group never met a test it liked.

BUT Mr. Schaeffer said it was not so much the tests that FairTest opposed, as the overreliance on them to make decisions about which students get promoted and graduate, which schools are failing under federal law and who gets a teacher's license. The test companies' own research indicates that the margin of error is too great to use the tests this way, he said.

FairTest has always been a David versus the testing industry. At its high point in the mid-1990's, FairTest had seven staff members and a budget of half a million dollars. Today it is down to one full-time worker, Mr. Neill; one half-time employee, Mr. Schaeffer; two phone lines; a one-room office; and a $168,000 budget.

That has not quieted them. Mr. Schaeffer pointed out after examining Educational Testing Service's most recent public disclosure forms that at least 21 E.T.S. executives make salaries larger than FairTest's entire budget, starting with Mr. Landgraf, who earned $1.07 million in 2004, and three vice presidents, who each earned over half a million.

"Those are outrageous salaries for a nonprofit," Mr. Schaeffer said.

Mr. Landgraf countered, "The salaries we pay are benchmarked against other organizations in the nonprofit sector and reflect our commitment to hiring the best and brightest."

FairTest has a knack for catching the testing companies at their worst, sometimes by using the companies' own research.

In a recent newsletter, FairTest printed an analysis of SAT results, using, and crediting, College Board research showing the direct correlation between family income and SAT scores. For every extra $10,000 a family earns, children's combined math and verbal scores go up 12 to 31 points. So children whose parents earn $50,000 score better on average (a combined 996 SAT) than students from families who earn $40,000 (967) but worse than students from families who earn $60,000 (1014).

For politicians and testing executives bragging about how No Child's testing emphasis is closing the achievement gap, these are not promising numbers.

In 2004, the College Board demanded that its data breaking down SAT scores by income, race and sex be removed from the FairTest Web site, claiming that the posting was a copyright infringement. But after FairTest showed the letter to reporters, the College Board backed down, calling it a mistake by a junior staff member.

Chiara Coletti, a spokeswoman for the College Board, which develops the PSAT, said the group worked hard to address California's concerns about that test, and stood by it. She was more generous about FairTest than her E.T.S. counterparts. Though FairTest's criticisms are painful, she said, "every industry needs a watchdog."

Mr. Schaeffer, who is a good tester himself (his 800 math SAT helped get him into M.I.T.), plans to keep watch until the money runs out.
371 2006-02-23 The Biovail Corporation, a Canadian pharmaceutical company, has sued SAC Capital Management, one of the most powerful hedge funds on Wall Street, accusing it of colluding with independent research providers to issue misleading reports to drive dow...
372 2006-02-23 Lynn Zinser reports on how the most burdened skater performed with the least burden of all.
373 2006-02-23 New shows in New York include "Barefoot in the Park" and "Odchodzi (Passing Away)."...
374 2006-02-23 In my course of reporting for my Sunday column about Internet companies in China, I came across the fact that China blocks websites that use a derogatory form of the name of Jiang Zemin, China's former president. So I tried to figure out what that...
375 2006-02-23 COLUMBO--Alicia. The Board of Trustees and the Maimonides Medical Center family mourn the passing of Alicia Columbo, mother of our esteemed colleague, Veronica Santilli, M.D. We extend our sincere condolences to Dr. Santilli and her extended famil...
376 2006-02-23 His killing follows the death last fall of another popular opposition figure, who was shot twice in the chest and once in the head. The Kazakhstan police have said that the death was a suicide, and in this more recent case the government has taken pains to defend its investigation into the killing. To increase the investigation's credibility, the Kazakhstan government requested an American F.B.I. agent to aid the local authorities in the investigation, and promptly received one.

Kazakhstan is a close ally of the United States, both in energy matters and as a partner in fighting terrorism in Central Asia. The American Embassy declined to give details of the assignment but confirmed the presence of an agent.

Although mindful of Kazakhstan's history of occasional high-profile, politically-motivated assassinations, people close to Mr. Sarsenbaiuly said he had not considered the political climate to be a reason to fear for his life. Three years ago Mr. Sarsenbaiuly, who once served as Kazakhstan's ambassador to Russia and was personally close to Mr. Nazarbayev, defected from the president's inner circle to help lead an opposition party called For a Just Kazakhstan.

For a Just Kazakhstan struggled for traction in the country's December presidential election, which was marred by allegations of fraudulent voting, voter intimidation and a nearly total boycott of any opposition politicians on national television. However, Mr. Sarsenbaiuly was widely viewed as the most promising of the candidates likely to win any future contest for president.

"Killing Sarsenbaiuly is exactly what I would do if I were a strategic planner for the government," said Oraz Jandosov, co-chairman of the Democratic Party of Kazakhstan, a political party with close ties to For a Just Kazakhstan.

Mr. Jandosov rejected the government's contention that independent "rogue" officers were completely responsible for the killing, instead suggesting that people close to the president ordered it as a pre-emptive strike. "The police and judicial system have become increasingly politicized -- that is the larger context," he said, but added that "it's important to focus on the powerful people with a lot of money who do the ordering. These are the people who are looking at an election in 7 or 10 years and they don't need someone like Sarsenbaiuly around."

Sergei Duvanov, a leading Kazakhstan human rights advocate, said: "I have no doubt this is the work of 'young wolves,' a younger generation who can organize criminal acts without needing permission from anyone. What's being created is a climate of fear."
377 2006-02-23 Arbitrator in Citigroup Case Accused of Conflicts of Interest  A big WorldCom shareholder, who lost a $900 million securities arbitration against Citigroup in November, is asking a federal court to overturn the decision because an arbitrator overs...
378 2006-02-23 The other companies behind the complaint are Nokia, Red Hat, RealNetworks, Opera, Corel and Linspire.

The complaint focuses on the Microsoft Office bundle of applications, which includes the PowerPoint software, made for use in public presentations.

The commission's spokesman for antitrust issues, Jonathan Todd, said competition officials would examine the new complaint carefully. Microsoft said it had expected the new complaint. "We have come to expect that as we introduce new products that benefit consumers, a few competitors will complain," it said in a statement.

It dismissed the trade association as "a front for I.B.M. and a few other competitors," adding that when faced with innovation, "they choose litigation."

The association said it believed that the issues raised in its complaint were vital to restoring competition in software. The Office bundle of software applications are especially important to businesses and its inability to work smoothly with applications like those in Star Office software, has prevented rivals from gaining a foothold in the market for desktop operating systems.

Open-source desktop operating system manufacturers have "effectively been kept at bay by the lack of interoperability of the Office applications," said Thomas Vinje, a partner in the Brussels office of the law firm Clifford Chance.

The lack of interoperability of Office applications was never part of an antitrust case in the United States, though the state of Massachusetts raised the issue in a discussion with Microsoft over public procurement. The state government said it would only order Office software if it worked well with open, interoperable software formats.

Microsoft agreed, and said it would open up Office. The new version, Office 12, which is to be released before the end of the year, will use extensible markup language, or XML, an industrywide standard, said Tom Brookes, the company's spokesman in Brussels.

Microsoft has submitted Office 12 to Ecma International, the industry standards body, to be registered as a standard software format interoperable with all rivals.

The trade association however, dismissed the move. "We are well aware of the XML standardization initiative, and we reached the conclusion that it doesn't solve the problem we are complaining about," Mr. Vinje said.
379 2006-02-23 "We still don't have a foundation down for how we play now," Marbury said. "We're 50-something games in. Every day, we're doing something different. We're trying to figure it out. We don't do just one thing consistent, because if we did, we would be sticking to it."

Other than the rookie Channing Frye, who led the team with 17 points, every Knick struggled. Nate Robinson, flushed from his All-Star dunk contest victory, missed defensive assignments and rushed shots. Jalen Rose -- the hoopla over his trade three weeks ago already faded -- added 5 points.

Eddy Curry had another foul-plagued game, even if it was against O'Neal. Upset with a dirty play from Malik Rose in the fourth quarter, O'Neal later got into a scuffle with him.

The Heat dashed to a 19-point lead in the first half. While the Knicks pulled to within 10 points midway through the third quarter, Wade slammed the door on the game when he lead the Heat on a 13-2 run.

Pat Riley, the Heat's president and coach, defended Thomas's acquisition of Francis, although both Francis and Marbury shoot first and are ultracompetitive guards not known for their defense.

"I know all of you look at this as one of the worst things going on, but they have accumulated a tremendous amount of talent, and ever since he's come here, the talent level has gone through the roof," Riley said.

Thomas has brought 29 different players to the Knicks while 15 have left in trades and free agency.

Riley, who was booed soundly in introductions by Garden fans remembering how he jolted the Knicks to coach the Heat in 1995, has also stockpiled talent. But the Heat is 34-20.

"Whether or not it's going to work one day is going to be up to whoever coaches the team," Riley said, although Brown still has four years and $40 million left on his contract to coach the Knicks. Then he added of Thomas: "He has a whole summer now to take a tremendous amount of talent and mold it, trade more of it, whatever he wants to do. But the cupboard's full."

Right now, so far as guards go, it is overstocked.
380 2006-02-23 Mr. Meshal has been touring Muslim countries seeking funds for the Palestinians. On Monday, Iran's supreme religious leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, asked Muslim countries to give the Palestinian Authority annual funding to foster spiritual unity.

President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran, who has called for Israel to be wiped off the map, hinted Monday after meeting Mr. Meshal that Iran would provide overt funding. "Since the divine treasures are infinite, you should not be concerned about economic issues," he told Mr. Meshal, the IRNA news agency reported.

Mark Regev, a spokesman for the Israeli Foreign Ministry, said that Israel would try to stop Iranian money from reaching a Hamas-led Palestinian Authority. "We would be entitled to use all legal means to prevent that money reaching terrorists," he said. He said the new Palestinian leadership "has to decide if it wants to be part of the legitimate international community" or "to align itself with international pariahs."

In Cairo on Wednesday, the leader of Israel's Labor Party, Amir Peretz, asked Muslims to understand that Israel could not deal with Hamas. "It's a clear, moral position that we cannot recognize a party that calls for Israel's destruction," he told reporters after meeting with President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt.

Mr. Larijani said Wednesday, "America showed that it is not after democracy in the region after it cut its financial aid to Palestine" even after "Hamas was elected by popular vote."

The United States has not yet cut its aid, but has announced a review, while demanding that the Palestinian Authority return $50 million it got last year to improve infrastructure, but that has gone almost entirely unspent for that purpose, after Israel pulled out of Gaza. The Palestinians have used all but $400,000 of the money as collateral for loans to pay salaries, Palestinian officials say.

In Gaza City, Hamas leaders held talks on Wednesday with the defeated Fatah faction, which said that it would continue to try to find "common ground" with Hamas and could take some seats in a new government. Fatah has said it would remain in opposition, but Azzam al-Ahmad, the leader of Fatah's parliamentary faction, said, "We want to find common ground and we hope we will seal an agreement."

But Fatah insists that Hamas accept Mr. Abbas's program of negotiations with Israel and only peaceful resistance to Israeli occupation.

Mahmoud Zahar, the leader of the Hamas faction in parliament, said, "There is an intention by all factions to participate in the coming government, including the brothers in Fatah."
381 2006-02-23 Yet in cases when a company has problems -- and when short sellers aggressively highlight those problems -- it may be unclear whether the stock price is falling because of fundamental problems with a company or because short sellers have simply persuaded other investors that the price is headed down.

In late October 2003, Biovail reported quarterly earnings that were weaker than expected and its stock fall sharply. The company, whose American operations are based in Bridgewater, N.J., is currently being investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal Trade Commission. Biovail, however, sees another force behind the decline in the stock: it accuses the hedge funds of conspiring with proclaimed "independent" research providers to create reports with the express purpose of battering its stock price.

The complaint, which seeks damages of $4.6 billion, lists 22 defendants, including Steven A. Cohen, the founder of SAC (the initials are his); various of his affiliate funds and their employees; Gradient, which was formerly Camelback; James Carr Bettis, founder and chief executive of Gradient and Donn Vickrey, founder and co-owner of Gradient, Mr. Maris of Banc of America Securities, the investment banking arm of Bank of America; and the Gerson Lehrman Group, a company based in New York that connects investors with experts in fields like pharmaceuticals.

A Bank of America spokesman said it had not received a copy of the lawsuit but added that "we have the highest degree of confidence in the integrity of David Maris's research."

According to the complaint, analysts at Camelback Research regurgitated reports from hedge funds, including SAC, reports that Camelback employees referred to as "hatchet jobs."

"The analyst contributed no meaningful analysis to the report but merely served as a scrivener of the client's stated position," the lawsuit says.

Biovail also accuses Camelback of holding up the release of its reports to allow clients to build meaningful positions in stocks to maximize the benefit of the negative impact from the report and contends that the research firm misrepresented to clients that it did not manage money. Mr. Bettis and Mr. Vickrey managed various hedge funds including Pinnacle, Helios and Hallmark from the same office where the independent research was being conducted, according to the lawsuit.

"These charges are completely false, malicious and they misrepresent the relationships between Gradient, its clients and owner-affiliates," said Karen Hinton, a spokeswoman for Gradient. "The patently false claims are made by a troubled company with a history of questionable accounting practices and book-cooking incidents that have been the subject of regulatory scrutiny in the United States and Canada and numerous class-action lawsuits."

The lawsuit accuses the Gerson Lehrman Group and other defendants of paying two doctors in 2003 to give false information to reporters suggesting Biovail had set up a program to bribe them to prescribe a Biovail drug. Camelback issued another negative report on Biovail with details of the bribes in late July.

The suit takes personal aim at Mr. Cohen, whose management fee for running his fund has "regularly" exceeded $400 million and is one of Wall Street's most powerful customers, doling out $150 million in commissions annually.

"Cohen uses his enormous financial leverage to support SAC's trading strategies by demanding access to material nonpublic information from the financial institutions with whom SAC does business, including nonpublic inside information concerning public companies and other clients to whom those institutions owe fiduciary and other duties of nondisclosure," the suit says.
382 2006-02-23 Prudence: I think the term is "original cast album," but I know what you mean. Anyway, "Indoor/Outdoor" has its moments. I liked Samantha's savvy jokes about pop culture. I chuckled when she said, "I sit in front of the TV 90 percent of my life, what do you expect?"

Jane: But even by the standards of anthropomorphic animal theater -- not a genre rife with masterworks, let's face it -- this one's a bit sloppy. It's dangerously unstructured, for instance, and not in a good, Chekhovian way. It just goes on and on.

Prudence: I hate to say it, Jane, but I think that comedy about "man's best friend" was better. You know, the A. R. Gurney off Broadway a while back, starring what's-her-name, with the hair like an ungroomed cocker spaniel.

Jane: Sarah Jessica Parker. She went from playing a dog onstage to chasing dogs on that HBO show. What a career!

Prudence: She needs a new agent. But we digress. Unfortunately, Mr. Finkle falls headlong into the usual trap of excessive cuteness here. Even the names: Shuman and Matilda. Humans with adorable names. Ugh.

Jane: It's enough to give you hairballs, but let's not go there. I mean, I'm not 100 percent sure, but I heard a rumor that we were named after a Barbara Pym novel.

Prudence: A Pinter moment. I didn't know. But that explains a lot.

Jane: To get back to the play, I also found the whole lonely-human-bonding-with-cat thing mildly offensive. To humans, I mean.

Prudence: And the indoor-outdoor dichotomy is so reductive. Be honest with me: do you pine for a nature frolic?

Jane: Not in this neighborhood.

Prudence: The kids tried hard, though. A lot of energy on that stage. Although I'm not sure why Emily ----

Jane: Make that Ms. McDonnell, honey. We're in The Times.

Prudence: Sorry, I'm not sure why Ms. McDonnell thinks a cat should talk like a little girl on too much Ritalin.

Jane: A good point. But Mr. Finkle's writing doesn't offer them much. He really shouldn't have stooped to that "cat got your tongue" line.

Prudence: Whence this mania for ascribing human consciousness to animals, anyway? It's disrespectful, is what it is. Why not let us retain our own, ineffable otherness?

Jane: The ineffable -- we're back to Chekhov!

Prudence: It's pure egotism, really. They're a very species-centric species, without question. The truth is, "Indoor/Outdoor" is really just another play about dysfunctional human relationships, with little whiskers drawn on.

Jane: And as such, about as fresh as last week's Fancy Feast. The usual gooey homilies about learning to communicate. If you ask me, communication is highly overrated. That's why we get along so well with these creatures. Communication is necessarily primitive.

Prudence: Absolutely! And for that matter, I think they overrate the whole consciousness thing, too.

Jane: I prefer unconsciousness, actually. Let's go back to sleep.

By Kenny Finkle; directed by Daniel Goldstein; sets by David Korins; costumes by Michael Krass; lighting by Ben Stanton; sound by Walter Trarbach and Tony Smolenski IV; general manager, Adam Hess; production stage manager, Brian Maschka; production manager, Shannon Case. Presented by Margo Lion, Hal Luftig and Daryl Roth, in association with Lily Hung. At DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 239-6200. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes.

WITH: Mario Campanaro (Oscar and others), Brian Hutchison (Shuman), Emily Cass McDonnell (Samantha) and Keira Naughton (Matilda/Mom/Sister).
383 2006-02-23 Mr. Chen said agriculture and rural savings had helped finance the boom in China's cities and coastal regions, so money now must be redirected into the countryside.

But he said the program did not include any immediate changes in rural land policy, an issue that many experts consider to be at the heart of the urban-rural inequality problem. Illegal land seizures have caused rising rural protests and violence in recent years as local officials have confiscated farmland and resold it to developers for fat profits. Farmers are often cheated and left with little compensation.

The resulting social instability has alarmed the government, and even Prime Minister Wen has warned that China must avoid a "historic error" over illegal land grabs.

Inequality has also widened in recent years, with rural residents each earning about $400 a year, less than a third of the incomes of their urban counterparts. But many researchers say the gap is actually far larger when health care and other social benefits provided to many urban residents are factored in.

Under the Chinese Constitution, farmland is collectively held by villages, so individual farmers, who hold leases, have limited control. Local governments have easily exploited the law to claim land for development projects.

Some experts say that government should be eliminated as a middleman in land sales and that farmers should be granted rights to negotiate and profit from selling land. In cities residents cannot own land, but they can own apartments, houses or commercial real estate that sit atop it. As a result, a real estate boom has helped city residents but largely bypassed the countryside.

Pointing into the indefinite future, Mr. Chen acknowledged that China would eventually need "to propose steadily reforming the land acquisition system itself." But he said any changes must happen slowly to protect the country's farming output.

Meanwhile, Mr. Chen said, farmers will be given more compensation after land confiscations. He suggested that urban social welfare benefits should be extended to peasants who were left landless.

He said China already had strict laws on land confiscations but conceded that the "implementation" of those laws had lagged. Indeed, violent protests by farmers trying to block local government land grabs recently erupted in Guangdong Province. At least four people were killed in the city of Dongzhou after the police fired on protesters.

Mr. Wen, the People's University scholar, said that land privatization alone could not ensure rural prosperity and noted that other developing countries with private land rights still suffered from widespread rural poverty. By turning its attention to the countryside, China is following the path taken by Japan and South Korea, which both bulked up rural development as their economies grew and social tensions arose, he said.

But he added that defusing social unrest is only one incentive for China to improve the rural economy. China's economy, now built largely on foreign trade, depends on expanding its consumer market, and rural areas represent a drag on domestic demand. Even though roughly two-thirds of China's 1.3 billion people are rural residents, the countryside accounts for only a third of retail sales for consumer products in China.

"If you can invest in rural areas and increase the cash income of people," Mr. Wen said, "you can increase domestic demand. China must increase domestic demand and not just depend on foreign trade."
384 2006-02-23 Sharp increases in energy and food costs pushed consumer prices higher last month, but prices of other goods and services rose more modestly, the government reported yesterday.

The report appears to allay fears that the increase in energy prices from last year would speed inflation in the broader economy, but analysts said they suspected it might not be enough to dissuade Federal Reserve policy makers from raising interest rates at least once and maybe twice before stopping.

Consumer prices were up 0.7 percent in January, after dropping 0.1 percent in December and falling 0.7 percent in November, the Labor Department reported. The core index, which excludes food and energy, was up 0.2 percent last month, after a 0.1 percent increase in December and 0.2 percent rise in November.

Energy prices jumped 5 percent in the last month, and the price of fruits and vegetables rose 1.7 percent. Oil, gasoline and other energy commodities, which fell at the end of last year from highs set in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, began climbing last month on concerns about Iran's nuclear ambitions and strife in Nigeria. Retail gasoline prices jumped 6.4 percent last month.

Economists have been expecting businesses to pass on higher energy costs to consumers, but that has not happened in a significant way thus far, with the apparent exception of certain items of food.
385 2006-02-23 The European Commission has ordered De Beers, the world's biggest diamond company, to stop buying rough diamonds from Alrosa of Russia as of 2009 in order to open the market to more competition. De Beers accounts for 70 percent of all rough diamon...
386 2006-02-23 Prime Minister José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero said that he would not use the government's so-called golden share in the electricity company Endesa to block its acquisition by the German utility E.On, a sign that Spain may be charting a different c...
387 2006-02-23 Linda Chatman Thomsen, the commission's director of enforcement, said, "This case represents the S.E.C.'s willingness to litigate important accounting fraud allegations against major accounting firms and their audit partners, even where the accounting was complex."

And Paul R. Berger, associate director of enforcement for investigations, added: "The Xerox fraud was a wide-ranging four-year scheme to defraud investors. Investors and the marketplace are the victims and deserve better from their corporate executives and auditor gatekeepers."

The settlements brought an end to one of the most contentious fights between the S.E.C. and an auditing firm. Even after Xerox restated its results and accepted a fine of $10 million, KPMG insisted that it had acted properly and that the S.E.C. was pursuing the case to justify its large expenses in the investigation.

An additional $22 million was paid by six former senior executives of Xerox.

KPMG argued that it forced Xerox to restate earlier financial results in 2000, although not by as much as it eventually did, and that much of the argument over other issues dealt with complicated accounting questions that had no clear answer. The commission, though, said the record showed that KPMG repeatedly fought with Xerox but gave in and allowed bad accounting.

KPMG settled with the S.E.C. in April 2005, as new leadership at the firm sought to put the legal issues behind it. The firm paid $22.5 million in penalties, interest and forfeiture of auditing fees from Xerox. It also agreed to change its business practices.

The partners sought to have the charges dismissed after extensive discovery proceedings. But in December, a United States District Court judge in Manhattan, Denise L. Cote, ruled that the case could go to trial though she dismissed some charges. That appeared to lead to the settlement negotiations.

In addition to the fines, the three partners who accepted consent decrees were suspended from practicing before the S.E.C., which means that they cannot audit public companies. Mr. Safran can reapply in three years, Mr. Conway in two and Mr. Dolanski in one.

Mr. Yoho and Mr. Safran remain KPMG partners. Mr. Dolanski left the firm in 1998 to take another job and Mr. Conway retired in 2004.

A lawyer for Mr. Yoho said his client was pleased to have put the matter behind him. Lawyers for the other partners either could not be reached or had no comment.
388 2006-02-23 Mr. Bush and his top aides are strongly resisting that. Even before the transfer became known, the administration's review of foreign business deals had come under criticism for not being sufficiently sensitive to national security.

In September, the Government Accountability Office, an investigative arm of Congress, said the Treasury Department, as head of the interagency committee that reviews such deals, had used an overly narrow definition of national security threats because it wanted to encourage foreign investment.

The department disputed those findings, saying that the committee had used an adequate definition and that decisions had been reached by consensuses of agencies with differing interests.

The review began in mid-October. The chief operating officer of Dubai Ports World, Edward H. Bilkey, said he and other executives met in December with Mr. Kimmitt's committee and then had numerous additional meetings before the final decision.

"There is no big deal about it," Mr. Bilkey said in an interview. "We complied with what the requirements were, and there was no problem."

Scott McClellan, the president's spokesman, said Mr. Bush became aware over the weekend of the deal, for some of the facilities in several major ports, including New York, Baltimore and Miami.

"One thing the president did, and even after all this press coverage of this transaction, was go back to every cabinet member whose department is involved in this process and ask them, 'Are you comfortable with this deal going forward?' " Mr. McClellan said. "And each and every one expressed that they were comfortable with this transaction going forward."

In a rare admission of error and in an indication that the White House might be seeking a deal with Capitol Hill to halt the furor, Mr. McClellan also said, "We probably should have briefed Congress about it sooner."

Republicans said an agreement by the White House to delay the transfer would help.

"If the president announces between now and next Monday or Tuesday that he is going to hold it for 45 days, have an investigation and consult with Congress, I think that would at least buy time," said Representative Peter T. King, a New York Republican who is a leading opponent of the new port management.

He said Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois had assured him that they "were on the same page" on halting the sale.

The White House dispatched aides to brief advisers to the Republican leadership on the rationale for the deal, and the port company retained high-powered help to deal with Capitol Hill, including former Senator Bob Dole and the lobbying firm of former Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright.

Mr. Bush threatened on Tuesday to veto any bills to block a deal for the company to run the ports.

Lawmakers and aides said the nearly united Republican resistance in Congress was a new atmosphere for a White House accustomed to strong public support for its policies and the willingness to settle any disagreements privately. But it was not seen as a permanent break.

"Over the past five years, the president has made the right call over and over again," said Eric Ueland, chief of staff for Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, the majority leader. "This is one time. Nobody wants to come to a giant battle over this. We want homeland security. He wants homeland security."

Democrats who joined in the call to scuttle the port transfer said they considered Congressional Republicans newcomers on port security. They began circulating voting records to show that Republicans had rejected increases in spending on port safety.

"All of the sudden, they want to act really tough," said Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. "But when it came to strengthening port security and implementing the 9/11 commission recommendations, they were nowhere to be found."

Before the administration approved the transfer from a British company, P&O Ports, Dubai Ports World had to agree to cooperate with future United States investigations, said an administration official who spoke only if granted anonymity because of the confidentiality of the agreement.

The official, confirming details first reported by the Associated Press, said the company agreed to disclose on demand records about "foreign operational direction" of its United States ports, including details on equipment, design and operations. The company does not have to keep copies of business records on American soil, where they would be subject to court orders, the official said. The report by the General Accountability Office in September included sharp criticism of the review process carried out by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, the committee created in 1975 to review foreign investments that could affect national security. The report said the committee, under the Clinton and Bush administrations, had often construed national security too narrowly, looking only at such factors as the control over technology exports, classified contracts and specific derogatory information about a company.

For that reason, the report said, the committee had too rarely subjected investments to intensive scrutiny. In addition, the report said Treasury officials believed that "being the subject of an investigation may have negative connotations for a company." Since 1997, the government has investigated 8 out of 470 notifications of pending contracts.
389 2006-02-23 Charles sued The Mail, claiming it had violated his privacy and was guilty of copyright infringement. He also hopes to prevent the paper from publishing seven similar reports he wrote after other trips, which were apparently leaked to it by a disgruntled former palace employee.

But the case is becoming less about copyright law and more about Charles's role in British politics. According to testimony by Mark Bolland, the prince's deputy private secretary from 1996 to 2002, the prince sees himself not as an aristocratic man of privilege, but rather as a "dissident working against the prevailing political consensus."

Charles, he wrote in a statement that is part of the newspaper's defense, had a habit of plying people -- members of Parliament, cabinet ministers, influential acquaintances -- with letters outlining his unsolicited "views of political matters and individual politicians at home and abroad and on international issues."

Mr. Bolland continued: "The prince's very definite aim in all this activity, as he expressed it, was to influence opinion. He saw that as part of the job of the heir apparent."

Mr. Bolland also wrote that the prince deliberately boycotted the state banquet given in 1999 for Jiang Zemin, then the Chinese president, choosing instead to have dinner with his girlfriend, Camilla Parker Bowles. So that it would be clear that he was making a political statement, Charles instructed his office to leak his evening plans to the news media, Mr. Bolland claimed.

Mr. Bolland's statement was not read in open court but was released by The Mail and seized upon with glee by the British newspapers.

"If the prince truly considers himself to be a 'dissident,' then he is one who occupies a most unusual labor camp," The Times of London wrote in an editorial. "Prisoners of conscience are normally dressed in chains and not a crown."

Prince Charles has a well-documented history of exasperation with many aspects of the modern world. An antagonist of much of contemporary architecture, he called a proposed extension to the National Gallery "a monstrous carbuncle" some years ago and said of the new British Library, then under construction, "How can you tell it is a library?"

He also harbors negative views -- expressed in speeches and letters or leaked by both supporters and detractors -- about nonorganic farming, genetically modified food, American environmental policy, supermarket chains, the rise in personal injury claims and the so-called compensation culture, the government ban on fox hunting, the news media, the state of British education, the treatment of the Dalai Lama by the Chinese and what he sees as the trend toward political correctness.

"What is wrong with everyone nowadays?" he scribbled several years ago in a note to an aide, complaining about an employee who wanted a promotion. "Why do they all seem to think they are qualified to do things far beyond their actual capabilities?"

The note, later leaked by the disgruntled (and unpromoted) employee, went on to disparage "child-centered learning" in schools that "tells people that they can all be pop stars or High Court judges or brilliant TV personalities or even infinitely more competent heads of state without ever putting in the necessary work or effort or having natural ability."

In a statement rebutting Mr. Bolland's testimony, Sir Michael Peat, Charles's private secretary, disputed the notion that the prince was forever meddling in politics.

Charles "avoids making public statements on matters that are the subject of disagreement between political parties," Sir Michael said. Nor, he said, has the prince "bombarded" government officials with unsolicited letters, "but has written to them from time to time on issues that he believes to be important."

Vernon Bogdanor, professor of government at Oxford University, said that Charles "has a right -- some would say a duty -- to interest himself in public matters and to speak on what he likes."

In fact, Professor Bogdanor said, the fault lies with Mr. Bolland.

"Mark Bolland has broken the duty of confidentiality, as well as undermining the constitutional underpinning of the monarchy," he said.

But public opinion does not seem universally behind the prince on this one.

"If he is going to find it irresistible to interfere in politics -- sometimes on the side of sense, sometimes on the side of nonsense -- then the monarchy would be in grave peril with him as head of state," Paul Flynn, a Labor member of Parliament, told the Press Association.

He added that if Charles was so interested in politics, "then he should do what everyone else does who has that urge, and stand for Parliament."
390 2006-02-23 FORSTER--Lissa. The Brick Church School mourns the passing of Lissa Forster, a dedicated, most caring teacher at Brick for twelve years and a very brave person....
391 2006-02-23 The commission's inquiry found that "the vast majority of the money funding the Sept. 11 attacks flowed through the U.A.E." Its government, the panel said, ignored American pressure to clamp down on terror financing until after the attacks.

Even now, when by all accounts the emirates have taken action in response to some American demands to enact tougher controls in its banking sector and cooperate against Al Qaeda, many lawmakers say allowing Dubai Ports World, the state-run U.A.E. company, to take over the ports remains too much of a risk.

Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan and a member of the Armed Services and Homeland Security Committees, said it was reckless to allow a country to manage the ports that does not have a "solid" record against terrorism.

The United Arab Emirates is composed of a disparate group of sheikdoms that banded together in 1971. Dubai, which runs Dubai Ports World, has built itself into a financial and transportation hub in the region. The country is the world's fifth-largest exporter of oil, but the vast bulk of its oil reserves lie in the more conservative Abu Dhabi, the emirate that holds the country's presidency and dominates its foreign and defense policy-making.

The emirates grew closer to Washington when commercial shipping in the Persian Gulf was threatened during the "tanker war" between Iran and Iraq in the 1980's. The ties expanded in the 1990's, culminating in the F-16 sale in 2000. Revelations about the Dubai banks' role in the September 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States, however, have introduced tensions on both sides.

Current and former American officials who have dealt with the United Arab Emirates say the portrayal of the emirates by opponents of the port deal is at best misleading and at worst could jeopardize the assistance the Pentagon, the F.B.I. and other agencies say they need in preventing terrorism.

If the port deal is overturned, few experts expect that U.A.E. would significantly reduce military cooperation with the Pentagon, which Abu Dhabi sees as vital to protect it from far larger neighbors, like Iran and Saudi Arabia. Abu Dhabi is unlikely to cut off oil and gas sales, which form a small part of American imports, experts said.

"It certainly will not mean that U.A.E. will start ending cooperation with the U.S.," said Theodore Kattouf, who was ambassador to the emirates from 1998 to 2001. "But I think it would be seen as a real rebuff to a country that is sort of leading the way in the Middle East in terms of globalization and free trade."

Pentagon officials say that part of the emirates' public relations problem stems from their unwillingness to disclose all but the most basic description of their cooperation with the American military. Worried about appearing too close to Washington, the emirates permit American troops and equipment in their country only under the condition that the United States cannot describe the scale or nature of the American mission, military officials said.

But the Pentagon in recent days has disclosed more details about American bases, apparently to counter the claims about the U.A.E.'s sympathy for terrorists. In remarks to reporters Tuesday, Gen. Peter Pace, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said, "In everything that we have asked and worked with them on, they have proven to be very, very solid partners."
392 2006-02-24 EndoGastric Solutions Inc. has raised $32 million in venture capital financing — one of the largest financing deals in a Seattle-area company in the past 12 months. Go to Article from The Seattle Post-Intelligencer Go to Article from VentureWire...
393 2006-02-24 Dubai-based hotel group Kingdom Hotel Investments said on Friday that shares in its initial public offering would be priced at $9.25 each, near the top of the offer range and valuing the company at $1.59 billion. Go to Article from Reuters via Yah...
394 2006-02-24 SAC Capital, one of Wall Street’s largest hedge funds, has hit back at accusations that it conspired to manipulate the stock market and drive down the share price of a Canadian pharmaceuticals company. Go to Article from The Telegraph...
395 2006-02-24 On Wednesday, the Bagger went to the St. Regis Hotel for a warm-up tasting before the east coast version of the Oscar night doings. I think the fact that the Academy has chosen lamb as an entrée shows a pronounced bias toward "Brokeback Mountain"...
396 2006-02-24 In the second episode of "Kappa Mikey," which appears tomorrow night as part of a doubleheader with the premiere, a hard-driving Japanese studio boss, Ozu, delivers his workplace philosophy: "Be in bed by never."

At least that's what I thought he said. And I thought it was a good line, like the old Disney credo, "If you don't show up for work on Saturday, don't bother coming in on Sunday." But Ozu is voiced with an exaggerated Japanese accent, and the dialogue here is so speedy that when I played the sequence back to check the quotation — fully seven times — I realized I was wrong. Ozu had actually said, "Be in bed by 9 o'clock." Which was less funny.

That sums up my encounter with "Kappa Mikey," a bright, strange comedy that Nicktoons Network is advertising as the first anime series ever created and produced entirely in the United States. It's promising around the edges, a little culty and hard to make out. It gets you wondering what anime even is, and whether it can ever delight American audiences as it does Japanese.

"Kappa Mikey" tells of the exploits of Mikey Simon, an American child actor from Cleveland who is drafted to star on an anime action show in Japan called "LilyMu." The audience of "LilyMu" loves Mikey, and he's suddenly a huge star in Japan. His real-life problems are celebrity problems: landing a glamorous apartment, dodging paparazzi, squabbling with his co-stars. At one point, Mikey ruins Ozu's precious bonsai tree and panics about how to replace it. A strange blobby creature suitably named Guano has an idea: "I know a guy who knows a guy who knows a botanist who knows a wizard who knows a magical princess who knows a — "

Another character looks up from a computer. "I just ordered one on TreeTrade," she says. This joke hits: e-commerce has thwarted the old drama and self-importance that used to come from getting things through back channels.
397 2006-02-24 The casting is a tell. Mrs. Harris is played by Annette Bening, an actress with a gift for tapping into a character's core astringency; even at her most emotionally unraveled and pathetic, Mrs. Harris is riddled with snobbery and self-delusion. After being taken into custody, Mrs. Harris is close to hysterics, and believes that she only wounded her lover. A detective takes pity on her and lets her know that Dr. Tarnower has "passed on," as he put it. "What a ridiculous expression," Mrs. Harris snaps.

Later, she moans to a friend that she cannot fathom how something so "ugly and sad" could happen between two people who never argue, "except over the use of the subjunctive."

Actually, they argued a lot. Ben Kingsley's Dr. Tarnower is selfish, narcissistic, cruel and also quite strange. His accent is stilted in an effort to erase traces of his Brooklyn Jewish background. According to Ms. Alexander's book, Dr. Tarnower tried to remove "the tones of Flatbush and Borough Park as if they were audible crab grass." He chooses the pretty, proper divorcée from Grosse Pointe, Mich., as his "shiksa" trophy, someone he can show off to his socialite friends — sometimes literally in his trophy room.

In this version, Mrs. Harris, at times appealing, at other times brittle and censorious, is hard to fathom. A career woman raising two sons, she falls for Dr. Tarnower's bullying charm at first sight. But even their first sexual experience is demeaning ("Don't you want to see me?" she asks when he orders her to turn off the light. "No," he replies.)

Mrs. Harris is a headmistress at work but only one of many mistresses in play at the Tarnower residence. She stays with the cardiologist even after he retracts a marriage proposal, and also after he begins an open affair with a younger woman, Lynne Tryforos (Chloe Sevigny). Mrs. Harris is addicted to him — as well as the sleeping pills and speed he prescribes for her. As their relationship matures and sours, she grows increasingly depressed and strung out.

In her biography, Ms. Alexander ascribes Mrs. Harris's masochistic attachment to Dr. Tarnower to a childhood warped by a cold, tyrannical father. The film doesn't make those connections, leaving it to the viewer to puzzle out their strange relationship.

The story begins with the night of the shooting, shown first the way Mrs. Harris described it to the police, as a suicide attempt that went awry. Toward the end, the same scene is played out from the prosecutor's point of view, which turned out to be more plausible to the jury: Mrs. Harris was convicted and given a sentence of 15 years to life at the Bedford Hills Correctional Facility. She was granted clemency and released in 1993.

The narrative shifts back and forth from the shooting, the trial and flashbacks of the couple in happier and also more miserable times. (By the time she became the head of the Madeira School in 1977, his interest had faded to bored incivility.) There are cutaways to friends and other witnesses who speak to the camera about the case — cameos by Dr. Tarnower's sister (Cloris Leachman), former girlfriends and men friends. And also some students.

One day, Mrs. Harris becomes enraged when she sees orange peels scattered on school grounds, ("They are pigs, Carol," she tells her assistant while on her hands and knees on the lawn. "I don't care how many National Merit scholars we have.") She then bans all oranges from campus. A former student says, "I think litter made her madder than drinking or drugs or not wearing bras."

Soon after that, Mrs. Harris grabs her purse, a gun and a bouquet of daisies, and drives five hours in a rainstorm to her lover's bedroom.

A Madeira school motto is "function in disaster, finish in style." The heroine of "Mrs. Harris" got it backward — she functioned with style and finished in disaster.

Written and directed by Phyllis Nagy; Elizabeth Karlsen, Pamela Koffler, Christine Vachon and John Wells, executive producers; Chrisann Verges, producer. A Killer Films/Number 9 Films and John Wells Production.

WITH: Annette Bening (Jean Harris), Ben Kingsley (Herman Tarnower), Ellen Burstyn (former Tarnower "steady"), Frances Fisher (Marge Jacobson), Philip Baker Hall (Arthur Schulte), Cloris Leachman (Pearl "Billie" Schwartz) Vivian Schulte (Mary McDonnell), Chloe Sevigny (Lynne Tryforos), Bill Smitrovich (Joel Arnou) and Frank Whaley (George Bolen).
398 2006-02-24 Speaking Thursday from his home in Bangalore, he said it could not. He said he remembered being told he was not being honest. "To tell a scientist of any standing he is deceptive about his research -- there cannot be a bigger affront," Dr. Mehta said. "I certainly felt very humiliated."

He said he refused to fill out a questionnaire on his research. His many peer-reviewed papers, he said, speak for themselves.

Dr. Mehta said he had visited the United States about 20 times but would never again apply for an American visa.

The embassy said Dr. Mehta's application would be considered as quickly as he submitted the additional information, which would then be sent to Washington for final approval. Such scrutiny applies to "one-half of 1 percent" of applicants, the embassy noted, adding that it had granted 313,815 visas in 2005. The embassy declined to say how many applications it had rejected.

"We are committed to treating each applicant with dignity and respect, but we are also obliged to obtain sufficient information necessary for properly evaluating each application," the embassy statement said.

A second scientist, Placid Rodriguez, said he was called by the consulate on Feb. 16. A nuclear metallurgist who helped develop India's fast-breeder reactor in the 1990's, he had sought a visa in November to speak at a minerals and metals conference starting March 12 in San Antonio. He said he was told it would take about eight weeks to review his answers to a new questionnaire.

Speaking from his home in Chennai, Dr. Rodriguez said that when he was told that, he saw no point in completing the questionnaire because he would have missed the conference. Besides, he wondered aloud, why hadn't consular officials asked for the questionnaire in November?

A second statement by the American Embassy responded: "The embassy regrets that Professors Rodriguez and Mehta were upset by the visa interview process. The U.S. Embassy has once again contacted them to let them know it stands ready to expedite the processing of their cases to conclusion."

Dr. Rodriguez did submit his completed questionnaire by e-mail. On Thursday, he said he received a call saying his visa had been approved.

The final case, reported Thursday by an English-language daily, The Indian Express, involved a biologist, P. C. Kesavan, who said he had been told his visa application would be delayed. A scientist affiliated with the M. S. Swaminathan Research Foundation, Dr. Kesavan told the newspaper he had been asked for his "entire biographical sketch" by the consulate in Chennai. The paper quoted him as calling it a "most demeaning and humiliating experience."

He could not be reached Thursday for further details.
399 2006-02-24 When those comments were relayed to Bush on Thursday, he disagreed.

"I like to think of myself as an every-down back," said Bush, the favorite to be taken No. 1 by the Houston Texans in the April 29-30 draft. "That's something I want to emphasize to whatever team that takes me, that I can be an every-down back, even though I'm not the biggest guy. I'm not 220 pounds, but I can still carry the load, and be in there when the game is on the line."

To strengthen his case, Bush has worked to strengthen his body. After spending the past month trying to add bulk and muscle, the 6-foot Bush said he weighed 201 pounds. He will not run the 40-yard dash at the combine this weekend in front of N.F.L. coaches and front-office personnel who have gathered to evaluate more than 300 prospects.

"I haven't really worked on my 40 times yet," said Bush, who plans to run the 40-yard dash in front of pro scouts at U.S.C. on April 2. "I'd like to get up to about 205. I'm still young. I'm only 20 years old. I'm still growing into my body. Eventually my metabolism will slow down, but right now it's kind of hard for me to gain weight."

Bush does not want concerns about his durability to cost him the No. 1 spot in the draft. The top three picks in the draft are expected to be Bush, U.S.C. quarterback Matt Leinart and Texas quarterback Vince Young. But Young is a native of Houston, and after leading the Longhorns to victory over the Trojans in the national championship game in January, he has become the favorite among some Texans fans.

During the national championship game, Bush was on the sideline at some crucial moments, with White carrying the ball instead. That did not sit well with Bush, but he refused to view it as a snub by U.S.C. Coach Pete Carroll.

"A lot of people have definitely asked me that question, why I wasn't in key situations," Bush said. "But you've got to understand, coming from our team, we had so many talented guys.

"They just felt like LenDale could take care of the job at that time. It has nothing to do with me not being able to do it. They just wanted him in there.

"Obviously, when the game is on the line, I want the ball," Bush said. "I'm a competitor. It's the coach's decision ultimately, and it would've been completely wrong for me to go in there and make a fuss about it."

During a conference call Thursday, the Texans' owner, Bob McNair, did not sound as if he had soured on Bush.

When asked about Bush's ability to carry the ball 25 times a game, McNair said: "I don't think that's a concern. If he has 10 carries for 10 touchdowns, that will be just fine."

While Bush will not display his game-breaking speed at the combine, he will do some early campaigning.

"This is about competing," he said. "I'm doing everything I can to position myself to be the No. 1 draft pick."

Jets Coach Eric Mangini and General Manager Mike Tannenbaum had little to say about contract negotiations with quarterback Chad Pennington. Pennington is due to make $6 million in base salary next season, and is also due a roster bonus of $3 million on March 3.

The Jets want Pennington to restructure his contract with a base salary of $1 million for next season, an offer that was rejected by Tom Condon, Pennington's agent.

Condon and Tannenbaum are expected to meet this weekend in Indianapolis, but if a restructured contract cannot be agreed upon, Pennington may be cut before March 3. Mangini said Pennington was rehabilitating his shoulder in Florida, and Tannenbaum said the Jets were working feverishly to resolve their contract issues before next week.

"We're in active negotiations, and we'd like to leave it at that for now," Tannenbaum said. "We have a plan, and we're working toward executing that plan. We will use every avenue available to us to improve the team."
400 2006-02-24 The government said it wanted the Bush administration to explain why it canceled the visa of a close ally of President Evo Morales, Senator Leonilda Zurita, who was planning to travel to the United States for a speaking tour. Ms. Zurita has led ra...
401 2006-02-24 McCULLOUGH--TODD A. IN REMEMBRANCE Sept. 8, 1954--Feb. 24, 2005 ''Out of all those kinds of people, you got a face with a view.'' * Your beloved, Margaret M. Wittig * The Talking Heads, This Must Be The Place...
402 2006-02-24 "All responses are local," she said. "We have a standardized template that everyone can build on and utilize."

It will be up to local communities to tailor the state plan to their own situations, she said, from issues as simple as communicating messages about the importance of basic hygiene to the distribution of medicines.

She noted that Gov. George E. Pataki's most recent budget asked for $29 million to be devoted to bolstering emergency supplies. She also said that the federal government had emergency stockpiles that could be used in the event of a pandemic outbreak.

At 400 pages, the state plan focuses on three main areas: early detection, prevention, and delivery of care. Dr. Novello acknowledged that the plan was evolving, and she said the goal was essentially to give the localities a framework so they could create their own plans. State officials, however, could not provide specific details on matters as basic as how many additional ventilators the state has or how much antiviral medication has been stockpiled.

The need to prepare for avian flu has taken on added urgency in recent months as a dangerous strain, H5N1, has spread from Asia to Europe. On Thursday, French health officials said that avian flu had possibly been found at a poultry farm. Millions of birds around the world have died, and about 170 humans have been infected, and more than half of them have died. The virus, however, has not been found to be easily transmissible from person to person.

Scientists are worried about the possibility that it could combine with a more common form of flu and become a rapidly spreading killer.

The federal response plan was unveiled in November, with President Bush calling for $7 billion to be devoted to preparation. Congress has since slashed that figure by about half, and about 90 percent of the federal money is being devoted to research on a possible vaccine and to buying Tamiflu, one of the only drugs now effective against avian flu.

The federal government said it was up to individual states to develop their own plans to receive financing, which is why New York State is making its plan public now.

New York City, which is developing its own plan apart from the state, receives money directly from the federal government for preparations to battle a potential pandemic flu.

Dr. Isaac B. Weisfuse, a deputy health commissioner who is leading the city's flu planning, said it would be very hard to develop one plan to cover the needs of wildly divergent departments across the state.

He said the city should be done with its plan within two months. "For New York City," he said, "clearly I feel we have to have ownership on the local level."

He said city officials were still wrestling with some of the difficult details painted over in broader strokes in the federal and state plans. One aspect the city is focusing on concerns voluntary isolation. "If you are ill, you should stay home -- and we as government should provide guidance," he said.

Dr. Novello said that the state, in the event of a pandemic outbreak, wanted everyone to have at least a two-week supply of food, water and household goods ready.

While the city is developing its own plan, the quality of the health departments in New York's 62 counties varies wildly, so it is hard to know if they would be prepared in the event of pandemic flu.

The kinds of challenges the city and state may face were demonstrated in September, when the city ran a "tabletop" exercise involving more than a dozen city and state departments envisioning a situation similar to the outbreak of Spanish flu in 1918, which left at least 33,000 dead in the city alone. At least 20 million to 40 million people died worldwide.

The exercise was intended to test the emergency response system by challenging leaders to make quick decisions, and seeing if and where communication breaks down or resources run out. One major concern repeatedly expressed was that many health workers would simply fail to show up for work.

Dr. Redlener of the Columbia University center said that the state plan could more directly address staffing issues. For instance, he said that decisions should already have been made about whether day care centers would be set up in the hospitals. He also questioned whether it was really wise to move patients to hotels and dorms if hospitals got too full, a measure called for in the federal plan.

Susan Waltman, senior vice president and general counsel for the Greater New York Hospital Association, agreed that there were challenges, but she praised the state's efforts to develop a plan.

"I thought that the federal plan was a very good framework," she said, adding, "I think the state fleshes that out even further."

Others, however, criticized both plans for a lack of details. Dr. David Seaberg, a board member of the American College of Emergency Physicians, a national organization with 23,000 members, testified recently before Congress about what he said were shortcomings in the federal plan, and echoed those concerns about the state plan.

"With the majority of the nation's emergency departments already operating either at or over critical capacity, the strain of arriving avian flu patients would cripple America's 4,000 emergency departments," he said.
403 2006-02-24 The promise of a dialogue between jazz and classical music has been a persistent lure over the years. It's a preoccupation that turns experts into interlopers, compelling them to speak in a borrowed tongue. Crossover Concerto, an event held on Wednesday night at Jazz at Lincoln Center's Rose Theater, illuminated that challenge, along with the lofty goal that inspired it. In tone as well as substance, the concert suggested cultural exchange.

This was true in more than one sense. The evening's classical eminence was the violist Yuri Bashmet, with the Moscow Soloists chamber orchestra; jazz was the provenance of the saxophonist Igor Butman and his big band. Both artists had crossed over, so to speak, from Russia, where they have the stature of national heroes. Their presence in New York, well publicized on Russian-language television, had met with a tidal response: the roughly 1,200-seat hall sold out days in advance, with the vast majority of tickets going to native Russian speakers.

Nevertheless, after a square-jawed proclamation from President Vladimir V. Putin -- stoically delivered by a Russian senator, it provoked a cavalcade of boos and then laughter and applause -- the program proceeded in English. Mr. Butman, the pre-eminent public figure on Russia's jazz scene, did most of the announcing; he also came across as the evening's most forcefully charismatic soloist.

The emphasis there is on forceful: Mr. Butman is a steamroller of a saxophonist, with a broad tone and a hard-charging rhythmic instinct. His Teflon style provided a stark contrast to Mr. Bashmet, who has a darkly resonant sound and an intimate way with technique; he was most captivating at his quietest, as on an opening Bach minuet.

Those differences extended to the ensembles, which occupied opposite sides of the stage. Mr. Butman's band set the tone with Rimsky-Korsakov's "Capriccio Español," rearranged by Vitaly Dolgov as a brassy fanfare; later, it brought the same blunt attack to Tchaikovsky. The chamber orchestra showed greater range and sensitivity on a bristling Shostakovich scherzo; Rachmaninoff's "Vocalise," which featured an excellent solo by Mr. Butman on soprano saxophone; and "Adagio for Viola and String Orchestra," an elegy by Igor Raykhelson.

Mr. Raykhelson, born in St. Petersburg, was the evening's third major presence; it was the United States premiere of his "Jazz Suite for Viola, Saxophone, Piano and Orchestra" that comprised the second half. He played the piano on that piece, which began with a faint hint of Gershwin and tumbled on through a bright, ricocheting swing, a stately tango, a waltz and a chiaroscuro lament.
404 2006-02-24 Former Mayor David N. Dinkins came out yesterday in support of Mark Green's candidacy for attorney general, providing Mr. Green with a prominent endorsement as he tries to steal some of the thunder away from Andrew M. Cuomo, who leads in fund-raising among the Democratic candidates.

Mr. Green, a former New York City public advocate and mayoral candidate, stood in front of City Hall to publicize his endorsement by not only Mr. Dinkins, but also Marty Markowitz, the Brooklyn borough president, and Judith Hope, a former chairwoman of the state Democratic Party.

At the news conference, Mr. Dinkins praised Mr. Green for his years of work as a consumer advocate.

"He has proven to be a relentless fighter for what is right," Mr. Dinkins said. "As a people's lawyer for his whole life, he has a real record of advocating for the underdog and protecting all New Yorkers."

Within the Green camp, the three endorsements were described as trumping the political endorsements from labor unions and elected officials that Mr. Cuomo has received. Mr. Green's aides praised the endorsements as coming from the biggest name in black politics (Mr. Dinkins), the most popular official in the most populous borough (Mr. Markowitz) and, after Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, the most highly regarded woman in the New York Democratic Party (Mrs. Hope).

An assistant to Mr. Cuomo noted yesterday that Mr. Cuomo had more than 70 prominent endorsements listed on his campaign Web site. The aide also pointed out that Mrs. Hope had helped raise money for Mr. Green's candidacy and that the Dinkins administration had selected Mr. Green as consumer affairs commissioner.

But Mr. Green, in an interview late yesterday, said the endorsements were a "political trifecta" even if he had clear ties to Mrs. Hope and Mr. Dinkins. "While I've known all three over the years, today was actually the first time that each had formally announced an endorsement of me," Mr. Green said. "Judith Hope has said supportive things about my A.G.'s race, but as recently as a month ago said that she was undecided on who to endorse, and today she crossed the Rubicon."

At the news conference, Mr. Markowitz called Mr. Green "a crusader on behalf of consumers for more than 30 years."
405 2006-02-24 It may well have been the best 99 cents Alex Ostrovsky ever spent.

Early yesterday, he paid that amount to download "Speed of Sound," a song on the Coldplay album "X&Y," from the iTunes Music Store, the Internet music shop that Apple Computer started less than three years ago.

He did not know it, but it was the billionth song the site had sold, and Apple was not about to let that go unnoticed.

So at 12:45 a.m., Mr. Ostrovsky's phone rang. It was an Apple employee, telling him that in addition to the song, Apple was giving him a 20-inch iMac, 10 iPods and a $10,000 gift card for the iTunes store. It is even establishing a scholarship at the Juilliard School in his name.

Mr. Ostrovsky, 16, was still trying to absorb it all yesterday. His phone had been ringing all day, alternating between reporters wanting to know his reaction and friends wanting to congratulate him.

At one point Mr. Ostrovsky, who lives in West Bloomfield, Mich., went to an Apple store to look at iMacs. "Everyone there knew who I was, too," he said. "It's just surreal."

He has pretty concrete ideas about how he will use the prizes, though. The iMac stays with him -- "I'd been asking my parents for a new computer for a while, so this was a dream come true," he said. He will keep an iPod, and family and friends will get the rest. But the $10,000 gift card has him a bit flummoxed.
406 2006-02-24 Few here would argue with the assessment of organizations like Human Rights Watch that the North Korean government is "among the world's most repressive," engaging in arbitrary arrests and the pervasive use of torture. North Korea is a place, Human Rights Watch points out, with no fair trials, no political opposition, no independent civil society and no freedom of information or religion.

But the North Korean human rights issue has become so politicized that the actual plight of North Koreans is often emphasized or de-emphasized for other ends.

"Right now, both Koreans and Americans have ulterior motives in focusing on North Korean human rights," said the Rev. Benjamin H. Yoon, who ran Amnesty International's South Korea office for many years before founding the Citizens' Alliance for North Korean Human Rights in 1996. It is the oldest private group concerned with abuses in the North.

Mr. Yoon's group is critical of the Christian groups for linking human rights with evangelizing and the South Korean government for failing to speak out on the subject.

The South Korean government contends that it is putting a priority on peace on the Korean peninsula by refraining from spotlighting human rights violations by the North Korean government, which regards such criticism as a threat to its hold on power. South Korea says it is promoting human rights in the North by increasing economic ties and nudging it toward more openness.

To South Korea, harsh talk on human rights is a cover for hard-liners here and in the Bush administration to scuttle six-nation talks over the nuclear crisis. Just as the Bush administration's recent focus on the North's counterfeiting after more than a decade of silence has outraged the North Koreans, the continuing focus on human rights has handed North Korea another excuse not to resume talks.

By contrast, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said recently that she planned to focus more attention on North Korean rights abuses. "We've talked about this issue with South Korea, which is not always an easy conversation," Ms. Rice told the House International Relations Committee.

The politicization of human rights is reflected in South Korea's recent history, Mr. Yoon said. During South Korea's military rule, proponents of democratization, including Roh Moo Hyun, now the president and a former human rights lawyer, fought for human rights and "were considered progressive and leftist," Mr. Yoon, 76, said.

"Now, because of the government's engagement policy toward the North, speaking out against human rights abuses in the North is regarded as reactionary and rightist," he said.

Until the start of its "sunshine policy" of engagement in the late 1990's, the South Korean government highlighted the North's human rights violations. The Korean Central Intelligence Agency debriefed North Korean defectors and urged some to transform their statements into books.

One such account became "The Aquariums of Pyongyang: Ten Years in the North Korean Gulag," a memoir by Kang Chol Hwan, a defector who was invited to meet President Bush in the White House last year. Mr. Kang, who has said that intermediaries connected with the intelligence agency helped him publish his memoir after he arrived here in 1992, is a co-chairman of NK Gulag, which is supported by the National Endowment for Democracy.

Against this political backdrop, it is an open secret that some North Korean defectors, and their backers, exaggerate their experiences in North Korea.

"They exaggerate their stories for money and fame," said the Rev. Joseph Park, the Christian Council of Korea's mission director. "They say that they were political prisoners when they were ordinary prisoners, or that they saw something they only heard about."

Critics also say that some Christians, while professing their commitment to human rights in the North, are actually endangering the lives of North Koreans through their evangelizing.

The Rev. Kim Tae Hyun, an official with the National Council of Churches in Korea, which supports the South Korean government's low-key approach on human rights in North Korea, criticizes missionaries who send North Koreans living in China back into the North to proselytize secretly. "They are putting the defectors at great risk," Mr. Kim said.

Durihana, a South Korean missionary group that is also increasing its lobbying in the United States, engages in the practice.

"We don't force them to go back," said Chun Ki Won, 50, Durihana's director. "We send only volunteers."

Mr. Chun did not deny that he and others might have other goals in emphasizing human rights in the North.

"The U.S. may be using human rights to have leverage in the nuclear negotiations," he said. "But whether it's political or not, there is the reality that there are executions and human rights violations in North Korea, and we can't forget that."
407 2006-02-24 Internal Inquiry at Fannie Mae Finds That Executives Manipulated Accounting  An internal investigation has uncovered new evidence that senior executives of Fannie Mae, the nation's largest buyer of home mortgages, manipulated its accounting in the...
408 2006-02-24 FORSTER--Elizabeth E. (Lissa), 41. Died suddenly on February 20, 2006. Beloved daughter of Hamilton and Elizabeth Forster. Sister of Timothy H. Forster and Laura F. Bowman and in-laws of Diane and Peter. She was the bravest person we knew, coping ...
409 2006-02-24 RIO DE JANEIRO, Feb. 23 - Brazil will buy back all $6.64 billion worth of bonds issued amid a financial crisis a decade ago, using the country's swelling foreign reserves and strengthening currency to close a chapter on that period.

The Economy Ministry said Thursday that it would exercise an option by April 15 to repurchase the so-called Brady bonds issued in the 1990's, when Brazil and other emerging markets issued such securities to restructure crippling debts. When the purchase is completed, the government will have retired all outstanding Brady bonds, removing from the market what many consider a reminder of a blot on the country's financial history.

Part of an effort to reduce the foreign debt load amid an increasingly favorable financial climate, the purchase follows a decision in December to pay off Brazil's remaining $15.5 billion debt with the International Monetary Fund and a move earlier last year to buy back more than $1 billion worth of another Brady bond.

The government, which said the purchase would save it at least $350 million in future interest payments, said the buyback would be financed by windfalls from exports in recent years.

Like many developing nations, especially in Latin America, Brazil is enjoying a surge in demand for its commodity-heavy exports, like soybeans, coffee, sugar and iron ore. The export boom is fueling increases in the country's foreign reserves -- now $58 billion -- which the government is spending to reduce some of its more onerous debt obligations.
410 2006-02-24 Secretary General Kofi Annan and human rights groups said Thursday that a resolution on a new Human Rights Council for the United Nations fell short of their expectations but still provided the best option for replacing the discredited Human Right...
411 2006-02-24 Even before the Canadians played a game, Gretzky had to weather a flurry of questions at the Olympics from reporters who wondered whether he would be distracted by the gambling scandal linking his wife, Janet Jones, to an illegal ring suspected of being operated by his close friend and Coyotes assistant Rick Tocchet.

"They were playing like they were in a dream," Michael Ferguson, manager of the Bottom Line sports bar in Toronto, said of Canada's hockey team. "You could see there wasn't any hunger with the Canadians this year. We never lose two games in a row, 2-0. Team Canada always plays gritty hockey with lots of hitting, but that seemed to go out the window this time, and you can see what happened."

Attention has begun to shift to Gretzky's future with Canada's Olympic program, as well as to some of his controversial player selections.

The former player agent and onetime Toronto Maple Leafs executive Bill Watters said Gretzky's undoing might have been his decision "to remain loyal" to players who had helped Canada win the 2002 Olympic gold medal and 2004 World Cup of Hockey.

That meant players like the Phoenix Coyotes' Shane Doan and the Detroit Red Wings' Kris Draper were named to the Canadian team, while young stars like the heralded rookie Sidney Crosby of the Pittsburgh Penguins; Eric Staal, whose 75 points with the Carolina Hurricanes are third-most in the N.H.L.; and Jason Spezza of the Ottawa Senators were either left off or relegated to a taxi squad.

"There's nothing wrong with loyalty, but moving forward, I think there has to be a change with how that team is picked," Watters said. "There was too much emphasis on what guys had done for Team Canada two years earlier."

Watters said the team's early exit could result in Gretzky being replaced as the Canadian team's executive director. Possible successors include Mario Lemieux, who retired last month from the Pittsburgh Penguins because of an irregular heartbeat, or Red Wings center Steve Yzerman, who is expected to retire after this N.H.L. season.

The Canadian team's elimination will also be vexing for the Canadian Broadcasting Corp., which paid $28 million for rights to the Turin Olympics.

In 2002, the gold-medal final between Canada and the United States attracted the largest TV audience in Canadian history. More than 10 million viewers, or one in three Canadians, tuned in.

Sunday's gold-medal game will feature the winners of the Russia-Finland and Czech Republic-Sweden semifinal matchups.

The number of viewers "will be pocket change this time around," said Jeff Wills, a Toronto media buyer. "The ratings for these Olympics were already below their targets. They're going to be in a tough spot."
412 2006-02-25 Ms. DiCioccio, now 25, obtained her working papers through Bunac, an organization that helps graduates obtain work permits, volunteer opportunities or community work in foreign countries. Other programs include WorldTeach, Princeton in Asia and the Japan Exchange and Teaching Program, as well as offerings by religious groups like the Jesuits and the Quakers.

People unencumbered by technicalities -- like working legally -- will branch off on their own with little more than a debit card, confidence and a copy of "Work Your Way Around the World."

Caroline Miceli, 26, chose the legal route. As she was preparing to graduate from Scripps College in Claremont, Calif., in 2002, she responded to a posting through her college for a year's international project management internship at BMW headquarters in Germany. She earned 880 euros a month (about $1,000 in today's money) and went into credit card debt to travel.

"I ate bread and sausage, but I got experience working for a world-class brand that everybody recognizes," she said. Working abroad "is a career move."

"It's not a money-making move," she said. "It puts you in a position to leverage yourself."

When her year ended, she returned to BMW in North America, then an interim project in China with a BMW supplier and then to a Toyota Motor Sales management training program in Torrance, Calif. She said her time in Germany convinced her that she could be on her own in Asia for five months. "Four years from graduation, I have international experience with a couple of different major automotive companies and fashion companies," she said.

Many aspiring expatriates live at home and work a few months to save money before they leave. Ms. DiCioccio, for example, worked for nine months doing office work, retail jobs and house sitting to give herself a financial cushion, but ended up saving another $700 or so from her Australian jobs.

Many travelers depart not knowing how they will earn a living once they hit the ground. With hustle, they often find employment before the jet lag wanes (to the relief of worried parents), according to some who have taken the plunge. Those working legally tend to earn more, but their stays have a set duration -- generally, four months to three years, depending on the country or program. People working illegally may earn less but can slip under the radar and stay in a country longer. A word of warning: that can result in deportation in extreme circumstances.

No nationwide survey measures the number of young Americans working abroad, but William Nolting, director for international opportunities at the International Center of the University of Michigan, maintains a rough estimate. From tracking the major organizations, he said at least 34,900 people worked and volunteered abroad in formal programs in the academic year 2002 through the summer of 2003. That is up from about 29,000 a year earlier. Mr. Nolting said the actual figure could be twice as high since he does not count participants in small organizations or those working illegally.

By comparison, about 191,000 students studied abroad for credit in 2003-4, out of an estimated 14 million college and university students, according to figures from the Institute of International Education.

Years ago, recent graduates headed for Britain and other parts of Europe. That has changed.

"Most students and young people have been to Europe on vacation and seem to be thinking much further afield," said Anna Crew, director of Bunac USA. Australia and New Zealand are popular. Her group is starting a volunteer program in Cambodia.

Brandon Steiner, 24, is in his first year as a teacher with the Japan Exchange and Teaching Program. Though he does not plan to teach after Japan, he will stay another two years or so. A 2005 graduate of Virginia Tech, he earns about $32,000, has minimal expenses since he lives in a rural area about three hours from Tokyo, and pays no United States or Japanese taxes.

"Admittedly, it is a way to goof off and have a good time in a foreign country," he said, but he added that "having international experience under your belt -- employers are enthusiastic."

"It looks good and is not a bad step out of college," he said. "It shows you already are open-minded."

Sometimes those who have worked abroad do not realize the benefits until long after the adventure has ended.

Julie Androshick, now 41, spent two years teaching English, history and algebra to high school students in American Samoa from 1987 to 1989 with the Jesuit Volunteer Corps. Room and board were free, and she taught algebra on the side. After Samoa, Ms. Androshick spent more than a year tending bar and getting a master's degree in international relations from the University of St. Andrews in Scotland.

Ms. Androshick later worked as a journalist and a McKinsey & Company analyst. She now helps big clients manage internal information as a partner with Kenning Associates, a small consulting firm. Based in Manhattan, Ms. Androshick said working abroad had expanded her worldview, gave her the courage to purse long-shot jobs and made her a more loyal employee.

"Because I did it for three and a half years and traveled so much, I wanted to settle down and establish a career and focus on that," she said. "The thought of picking up now and living abroad actually stresses me out."

Foreign experience demonstrates entrepreneurship, resourcefulness and independence, according to recruiters. Rosalind Clay Carter, senior vice president for human resources at A&E Television Networks, said people who work and support themselves overseas tend to be inquisitive, flexible and adaptive -- valuable skills in today's workplace.

"You are interested in that person who can move quickly and is nimble and has an inquiring mind," she said.

Know Before You Go

Those who need help in finding work overseas should know that some groups charge hefty placement fees. Determine whether the groups are covering room and board or are charging you just for the paperwork. Research will also uncover which programs require applications a year ahead of time and which accept only recent graduates.

Following are Web sites for job, volunteer and general information:

Bunac provides work permits (though not employment) and volunteer opportunities (www.bunac.org).

Japan Exchange and Teaching Program calls for a one-year commitment and pays about $32,000 (www.mofa.go.jp/j--info/visit/jet/).

The National Consortium for Study in Africa at Michigan State University lists opportunities (www.isp.msu.edu/ncsa/volteer.htm).

Princeton in Asia places business, media and nongovernmental fellows in countries like East Timor, Kazakhstan and Hong Kong (webscript.princeton.edu/pia/main/).

Transitions Abroad is a travel magazine, but its site offers information about working abroad (www.transitionsabroad.com/listings/work/index.shtml).

The University of Michigan's extensive work abroad site is open to nonstudents (www.umich.edu/icenter/overseas/work/index.html).

WorldTeach dispatches volunteers in developing countries like Costa Rica, China and Poland. Volunteers need not be aspiring teachers (www.worldteach.org).
413 2006-02-25 With its partners, Acción has disbursed $7.6 billion in microloans to more than 4.7 million borrowers since 1992, with a historical repayment rate of 97 percent, according to the article. Sixty-five percent of the clients are women.

Conceding that the social capitalists are taking on what would not normally be described as business problems, Cheryl Dahle writes that their solutions are "elegant, creative and entrepreneurial to the core."

GRADUAL GIVING. -- Giving of a different sort interests Vacation Homes, which reports that the concepts of fractional jet ownership and real estate time shares have been joined by partial art ownership. In this case, the owners give an interest in works of art to a museum, in exchange for a tax deduction.

The process is easy to understand. If you own a painting valued by an independent appraiser at $1 million, you could give a 10 percent interest to a museum. The museum would receive the right to keep the painting 10 percent of the year, and you would receive credit for a $100,000 contribution.

"While the donor can arrange to give any fractional amount, the tax benefits are capped if the fair market value of the gift exceeds 30 percent of the donor's adjusted gross income," Kim Fredericks writes, but the remaining portion can be carried forward for up to five years.

Given that art prices are increasing, the practice is becoming widespread, with many museums listing the possible tax advantages of fractional gifts on their Web sites.

OUTSIDE IN -- One mantra on improving corporate governance stresses the need for more outside directors, that is, directors who are not employed by the company.

Gary Sutton, who has served as director of a number of public and private companies, agrees that getting another point of view is valuable, but adds that after an extended period of service, outside directors in essence become insiders.

"Too many directors stay too long," he writes in Directors and Boards.

Over time, Mr. Sutton says, outside directors can lose their critical eye, or conversely think they know so much about the company that they begin to interfere in decisions that are best left to the executives who serve full time.

"Verify results, sure," he writes. "Meddle not."

Here's Mr. Sutton's personal answer to the question of how long an outside director should serve: "After six years, I feel like an insider, regardless of legal definitions, and it is healthier if somebody with a fresh set of eyeballs and apprehensions steps up."

FINAL TAKE. -- Coke has Pepsi. Hertz has Avis. And because, in the words of Chain Leader, "one heavily themed casual-dining chain with scantily clad servers could never be enough," Hooters is about to have competition -- from Hustler.

The first Hustler Bar & Grille will open in Las Vegas in October. There will be loud music, sports on TV, "Hustler memorabilia sans pornography," and servers known as "the Hustler Hunnies."

One licensee, Brad Saltzman, said, "They will be like Hooters girls with a background in hospitality."

America is truly a land of opportunity. PAUL B. BROWN
414 2006-02-25 "In my four years, I passed the legislation I wanted to pass, did most of the rezoning I wanted to do, passed two of the toughest budgets this city has ever seen," he said. "I'm looking for new challenges, so I loved being speaker but I don't really miss it."

Mr. Miller, 36, was forced by term limits to leave the Council after a decade of representing his Upper East Side district. He ran unsuccessfully for mayor last year, losing the Democratic nomination to Fernando Ferrer after a series of missteps that included spending $1.6 million in taxpayer money on Council fliers that were widely seen as thinly veiled campaign literature.

Mr. Miller said only that his campaign was an intense learning experience, and that he did not blame anyone else for its failure.

"I don't want to rehash the campaign," he said. "I'm comfortable with the decision that people made. Obviously, when you look back, you wouldn't do everything exactly the same way, but I'm proud of the work that my team put in, proud of the results, and proud of my tenure as speaker. I'm going to focus on those positives."

Mr. Miller said he received several job offers, but decided that he wanted to pick and choose his own projects. So he rented office space in a building near Grand Central Terminal, and rehired his former Council adviser, Matt Epperly, as his sole employee. He already has a few clients, but would not name them.

"It's not lobbying, I don't lobby, it's providing strategic advice," he said. "I think I have a broad understanding of how government works, why it works, where it works, and also how to get things done in this city. And there are certainly some people out there who are interested in that."

Mr. Miller, who earned $119,000 a year as speaker, declined to say how much he would be earning with his teaching and consulting positions. "It's not much," he said. "Don't worry, I'm not getting rich on it."

Mr. Miller also remains close to the new Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, though he did not attend her installation ceremony last month because he was on vacation. He said he speaks to her several times a week, and supported her decision last week to fire 61 council employees, including some people who had been hired under his tenure. "Chris and I are great friends and I have enormous admiration for her," he said. "She's entitled to hire her own team, she doesn't have to work with my team."

While Mr. Miller said he has no immediate plans to return to public life, he would not rule out a future run for office.

"Look, I'm 36, so if my health holds out, I hope to have several more careers," he said.
415 2006-02-25 PORT AUTHORITY -- Dubai Ports World said it expected to complete its $6.85 billion purchase of the Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation Company of Britain next week but agreed not to exercise control over terminal operations at six American ports yet.

"D.P. World will segregate P.& O.'s U.S. operations while it engages in further consultation with the Bush administration and, as appropriate, Congressional leadership," the company said.

The delay by the Dubai company means that some terminal operations in Baltimore, Miami, Newark, New Orleans, New York and Philadelphia remain in the hands of British and American executives. Yesterday, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey asked a New Jersey court to block the transaction, asserting that the sale violated a lease agreement. A hearing is set for March 3.

House Republicans plan to meet early next week to review the deal, which was formally approved by the Committee on Foreign Investment in mid-January. Members of Congress have threatened to enact legislation to block the deal because of concern over security. President Bush has promised to veto any such legislation.

INFLATED PROFIT -- A report, commissioned by the directors of Fannie Mae, the mortgage giant, found that senior executives manipulated its accounting in the 1990's to meet earnings projections and ensure multimillion-dollar bonuses.

The 616-page report details how the company violated generally accepted accounting principles repeatedly. In particular, investigators found that the company delayed taking nearly $200 million in expenses in 1998. That and other accounting steps permitted the company to meet earnings and bonus targets.

The report is expected to renew calls for strengthening oversight of Fannie Mae and to limit its size. The Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission are still investigating former executives, and the company's regulator may ask them to return bonuses. Fannie Mae has not filed an earnings statement since 2004. This year, it is expected to make an $11 billion restatement of its earnings dating to 2001.

BETTER BENEFITS -- Tomorrow, H. Lee Scott Jr., the chief executive of Wal-Mart Stores, will formally announce changes to the company's health benefits program to the nation's governors in Washington, some of whom have criticized the health care coverage the retailer provides, saying it leaves the states to shoulder many medical costs.

On Thursday, Wal-Mart previewed new benefit rules that are aimed at loosening eligibility requirements and reducing the waiting period for new part-time employees to participate. Currently, that period is two years. And for the first time, part-time employees will be able to enroll their children in the company's health insurance plan.

Lawmakers in several states have introduced bills to require Wal-Mart to spend more on employee health insurance. It is unclear how much of an impact the benefit changes will have because the retailer provided few details.

IT'S SETTLED -- HealthSouth, without admitting wrongdoing, agreed to pay $445 million to settle investor lawsuits filed after federal investigators uncovered accounting fraud. The proposed settlement is subject to approval by the federal judge overseeing the case.

In addition, plaintiffs will receive 25 percent of any future judgments the company receives from Richard M. Scrushy, its former chief executive; Ernst & Young, its former auditor; and UBS, its former investment bank.

In June, a jury acquitted Mr. Scrushy of all criminal charges that he participated in the fraud. He still faces numerous civil lawsuits.

MOST VIEWED -- Following are the most viewed articles from Feb. 18 to Feb. 24:

1. Digital Moves to Top-Tier Cameras 2. Wi-Fi to Go: The Hot Spot in a Box 3. Why Doctors So Often Get It Wrong 4. Company Town Relies on G.M. Long After Plants Have Closed 5. For Minorities, Signs of Trouble in Foreclosures
416 2006-02-25 Mining Company Glamis Gold Agrees to Buy Western Silver of Canada for $1 Billion  Glamis Gold said yesterday that it had agreed to buy the Western Silver Corporation for 1.2 billion Canadian dollars ($1.04 billion). Glamis said it would pay 0.688 ...
417 2006-02-25 In the making of movies for children these days, a burst or two of flatulence seems to be mandatory. But beyond a certain point, the time-honored gag becomes a sign of desperation. Certainly that has never been more evident than in "Doogal," an animated clunker that calls on its designated noisemaker (a moose voiced by Kevin Smith) something like a dozen times.

Alas, the poor beast can't perk up the chilly tale, and neither can the gaggle of stars who provide the other voices, among them Chevy Chase, Whoopi Goldberg, Jimmy Fallon and William H. Macy. The film even has the marquee name of the moment, Jon Stewart, who, to his credit, can laugh at himself: on his "Daily Show" Thursday night, talking with the film critic Roger Ebert, Mr. Stewart could barely manage to spit out a description of his character, so hard was he laughing at the idiocy of it all. The description went something like this: He plays Zeebad, an evil spring -- yes, spring, as in Boing! -- with wizardly powers, who tries to freeze the sun by discharging ice balls from his mustache.

The title character (Daniel Tay) is a not-adorable-enough dog whose blundering frees Zeebad from the prison where a good spring had locked him up.

Setting the world right again involves a badly paced quest for three diamonds, assorted jokes that don't land, and a daringly incoherent climactic confrontation.

Directed by Jean Duval, Frank Passingham and Dave Borthwick; written by Paul Bassett Davies with Tad Safran, based on original characters created by Serge Danot and Martine Danot from the television series "The Magic Roundabout"; produced by Laurent Rodon, Pascal Rodon and Claude Gorsky; music by Mark Thomas; released by the Weinstein Company and Pathé Pictures. Running time: 81 minutes. This film is rated G.

WITH THE VOICES OF: Judi Dench (Narrator), Chevy Chase (Train), Jimmy Fallon (Dylan), Whoopi Goldberg (Ermintrude), Bill Hader (Soldier Sam), William H. Macy (Brian), Ian McKellen (Zebedee), Kylie Minogue (Florence), Kevin Smith (Moose), Jon Stewart (Zeebad) and Daniel Tay (Doogal).
418 2006-02-25 "I'm going to run, to give myself an indication of where I'm at," Bloom said Friday at the RCA Dome. "I know I'm not where I can be, but I've got a lot of fire in me for football, and I'm ready to dedicate 100 percent of my time. To me, the N.F.L. combine is a place of competition at its highest, the most eyes, the most people. I don't want to come here and not compete. I understand that I'm at a bit of a disadvantage, but sometimes you wake up on game day and don't feel great. You still got to play."

Bloom will run for scouts again on April 1, when he hopes to improve on his 40-yard dash. But speed has never been a problem for him. During his abbreviated career at Colorado, Bloom scored five touchdowns of 75 yards or more. Opponents still remember what he is capable of.

"I remember our freshman year, he took it to the house against us," Travis Wilson, a wide receiver from Oklahoma, said Friday. "You just can't teach speed. He's dangerous. We always had a game plan not to kick the ball to him."

The unusual circumstances surrounding Bloom make it difficult to project his draft status. Some have speculated that he will be a second-day selection, but his speed could tempt teams to draft him earlier.

Though Bloom spent much of Friday going through medical examinations, he was a curiosity to other players. Many recognized him from television interviews or magazine covers, and they offered their congratulations for making the Olympic team. Bloom was equally excited to meet many players.

"I've got to pinch myself," Bloom said. "I'm soaking this all in. A lot of players are complaining about the testing and the procedures, but I'm soaking it all in, because I think it's so cool."

Bloom expects any team that signs him to have a clause in his contract that will forbid him from skiing. That will not be a problem for Bloom.

"I think Winslow took care of that stuff," said Bloom, referring to Kellen Winslow Jr., the Cleveland Browns tight end who sustained a season-ending injury last year in a motorcycle accident.

Since returning to the United States, Bloom said it was weird watching the Olympics on television.

"I keep having to remind myself that I was there last week," he said. "I turn it on; I feel like it was an eternity ago."

Bloom was measured at 5 feet 9 inches and 173 pounds Friday. He lost weight to prepare for the Olympics, and his normal football weight at Colorado was around 185. Several receivers who are Bloom's size have become stars, like Steve Smith of the Carolina Panthers and Santana Moss of the Washington Redskins. While not comparing himself to them, Bloom has been inspired.

He said he was looking forward to having football back in his life.

"I don't see myself going back to skiing," Bloom said. "I've accomplished everything and more than I ever imagined. But this is a challenge. That's what drives me."

Gene Upshaw, director of the players' union, met with about 500 agents Friday and reaffirmed that he was not optimistic that a new labor agreement would be in place by March 3, the start of free agency. Most agents are planning to proceed with contract negotiations as if a new deal will not be in place. According to a union spokesman, Carl Francis, Upshaw left Indianapolis on Friday without any progress in negotiations.
419 2006-02-25 Scores commissioned for dance are rare birds these days, so Juilliard's "New Dances/New Music," which opened on Wednesday night at the Peter Jay Sharp Theater, was noteworthy in offering no fewer than three new compositions to accompany three new dance pieces. It was also noteworthy in that one of the compositions -- Christopher Rouse's "Friandises" -- was the product of an unusual co-commission by Juilliard and the New York City Ballet, which first performed Peter Martins's eponymous ballet to Mr. Rouse's score just two weeks ago.

The second premiere to "Friandises" (conducted here, as it was at City Ballet, by Andrea Quinn), was by Adam Hougland, a Juilliard graduate who has choreographed a number of well-received works. Watching Mr. Hougland's version, entitled "Watershed," was a lesson in dance's power to affect the perception of music. Mr. Martin's firecracker ballet for an ensemble of young virtuoso dancers left an impression of a jaggedly rhythmic, all-guns-blazing score. Mr. Hougland's work pointed up the more wistful nuances in Mr. Rouse's music, particularly its lyrical fourth movement, which the choreographer used for a tender, magically flowing duo, beautifully danced by Navarra Novy-Williams and Dominic Santia.

"Watershed" is nonetheless mostly an ensemble work. Mr. Hougland moves the dancers, clad in wine-colored costumes by Christine Field, skillfully on and off the stage, and successfully develops a distinctive quasi-balletic vocabulary of sweeping, circling legs, wheeling arms and arcing, high lifts. But perhaps because of his lack of choice when it came to the music (like Mr. Martins, he had accepted the commission before hearing the composition), "Watershed" felt more like a well-executed task than freewheeling inspiration.

The other choreographers, Alan Hineline and Jessica Lang (another graduate of Juilliard), were free to pick their musical collaborators. Jerome Begin created a layered, percussive score with minimalist overtones for Mr. Hineline's "Confines," an ambitious piece for 16 dancers. William Forsythe was clearly being channeled here -- both aesthetically (the entirely exposed width of the stage; the white panels and dramatic lighting) and physically (the quick transitions between off-axis positions; shoulder isolations; extensive use of the arms angled in opposition to the legs). Although "Confines" is an attractive piece, it has none of the inner logic that dominates Mr. Forsythe's choreography, and the dancers, in sheer gray pants and tunics over bright leotards (by Holly Hynes), often looked slightly lost.

Ms. Lang's "Senbazuru" was set to a score of the same name by Pete M. Wyer, and it might be best described as overblown. The piece involves 1,000 paper cranes (the meaning of the title), 14 dancers, 4 singers and a lot of angst. Christopher Vo had the task of remaining in the spotlight -- literally -- for the entire piece, as an outsider who struggles to break into a community full of spiritual malaise. "Senbazuru" occasionally has the look of a Robert Wilson production, with the always-competent singers on elevated platforms and a dramatic use of color. But the dancing remained unfocused and blurry, and the sentiment mawkish.

Ms. Quinn led the Juilliard Theater Orchestra, which played the demanding new scores with great verve.
420 2006-02-25 The sale, to the Singapore government investment fund, Temasek, has led many to complain that Mr. Thaksin, a professed nationalist, had sold strategic assets, like communications satellites, to a foreign country.

The huge Temasek fund is headed by Ho Ching, the wife of Singapore's prime minister, Lee Hsien Loong.

The deputy leader of the Democrat Party, Korn Chatikavanij, said Friday night that the opposition's election campaign would capitalize on the public outrage at the Shin Corporation sale and emphasize Mr. Thaksin's "murky" business dealings.

"When we were making allegations that his policies were designed to enrich him and those around him, suddenly that becomes clear with the Shin Corporation deal," Mr. Korn said. "People feel cheated."

Mr. Korn said his party faced a tough challenge against the prime minister's party, Thai Rak Thai, which holds 377 of the 500 parliamentary seats. But the Democrats are optimistic that the public clamor that forced the dissolution of Parliament will translate into a solid antiThaksin vote on April 2, he said.

Some of Mr. Thaksin's opponents have argued that he has breached conflict-of-interest laws because he failed to fully relinquish control of the Shin Corporation when he took office and that as punishment the family should forfeit the $1.9 billion.

Events moved swiftly in the last few days, leaving the seemingly invincible Mr. Thaksin with little choice but to face the electorate.

Chamlong Srimuang, a prominent mentor of the prime minister and a former governor of Bangkok, called on Mr. Thaksin to resign early in the week and said his followers in a Buddhist religious sect would join the protest on Sunday.

The last military leader of Thailand, Gen. Suchinda Kraprayoon, said Wednesday that to avoid possible violence Mr. Thaksin should ask King Bhumibol Adulyadej's consent to dissolve Parliament and call new elections. The king gave his consent on Friday.

After Mr. Thaksin's party swept the parliamentary election last year, the opposition Democrat Party was left in shreds, even in its usual stronghold, Bangkok. But it has taken on new life since the Shin Corporation sale.

Using the financial skills of Mr. Korn, a former investment banker who ran J. P. Morgan in Thailand before entering politics last year, the party has deconstructed the complicated deal for the public and used its findings to aid a burgeoning popular movement of students, teachers, the urban middle class and religious and social groups.

Mr. Korn sat in the party's coffee shop one morning this week with a friend who is an investment banker, a laptop between them, as they fielded calls on their mobile phones about "beneficiaries" and "nominees" and addresses in faraway places of offshore companies connected to Shin.

A graduate of elite British schools -- Winchester and Oxford University -- Mr. Korn said he was only beginning to unearth the fine details, but he said the basics were fairly clear. The law allowing foreign investors to hold a 49 percent stake in a telecommunications company was made final three days before the sale of the Shin Corporation was announced in January, he said.

The Finance Ministry, he said, made changes to the tax laws in December that no longer made it necessary to pay a 15 percent withholding tax on shares that were transferred to the seller at below-market value. The change saved the Thaksin family about $100 million, said Abhisit Vejjajiva, the head of the Democrat Party.

The government spokesman, Surapong Suebwonglee, said in an interview that the plans for increasing the stake for foreign ownership of communications companies had been discussed by the government for two years and was not a last-minute decision.

Mr. Surapong said the Thaksin family had abided by all laws in the sale of the company and noted that under Thai law there was no capital gains tax on share transactions. He said the public had been bamboozled by misinformation. Only a relatively small number of Thais -- 300,000 to 400,000 -- trade in the stock market, he said, "and only families in the stock exchange will understand."

Among the troubling aspects of the deal, according to Mr. Thaksin's critics, is the question of whether he really separated himself from the company at the start of his first term five years ago, as he has said, by turning control over to his children, who are in their 20's.

The company owns Thailand's biggest mobile phone service, communications satellites and a 50 percent share in a budget airline, Thai Air Asia.

Few people believe that the prime minister, a self-made man from humble origins in the northern city of Chiang Mai, has severed relations with the company he built into the nation's biggest media and communications company.

Officials in his last government said Mr. Thaksin had often talked of selling the company as a way of ridding himself of the appearance of impropriety. At the same time, they said, the prime minister arranged regulatory rulings that benefited Shin. One example they cited was speedy permission for Thai Air Asia to compete against Thai Airways, the national carrier, which had always been given preferential treatment.
421 2006-02-26 "The PlayStation is more than a game system to them; it's one of their attempts to own the digital living room," said Robert Heiblim, a consultant to electronics companies. "Blu-ray is also critically important to get right. They don't want to be weak in an area they feel they can dominate."

A DECADE ago, a prospective death match between competing first-generation DVD players was averted when Sony and Philips agreed to back down and join the Toshiba/Warner Brothers side, in exchange for a share of royalties that all DVD player producers pay to the format's creator. Now, no truce seems near, as neither side wants to settle for a small piece of what could be a big electronics success.

So consumers and retailers may be in for a reprise of the confusing VHS-Betamax showdown of the early 1980's, with Toshiba replacing Matsushita as Sony's adversary. But Sony hopes to have a happier resolution this time. Sony lost the battle two decades ago when its highly regarded Betamax technology was defeated by VHS, a more widely accepted alternative.

Once again, the differences between the two technologies are not huge. And a growing chorus of critics, including some studio chiefs eager to sell new products as quickly as possible, call the Blu-ray format unnecessarily elaborate and expensive.

The first HD-DVD machines from Toshiba and the competing Blu-ray players from Sony, Samsung and the other Blu-ray companies will all play movies with crisper pictures, enhanced sound and a bevy of interactive features like pictures within pictures and links to the Internet. The machines will also play older DVD's.

Technophiles got a preview of the HD-DVD technology on Wednesday at an electronics store on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. As Jessica Simpson and Johnny Knoxville cavorted in the movie "The Dukes of Hazzard," prospective buyers were able to see the difference between a plain old DVD and the high-definition kind. But the main feature was the price. Toshiba will sell two players starting in March; one will cost just $499, half the price of the cheapest Blu-ray machines, the first of which will hit the stores this spring. Samsung's first machine will cost $1,000, while Pioneer's Blu-ray player will run $1,800.

Toshiba executives have said that because more high-definition movies will be distributed over the Internet in coming years, they have essentially upgraded existing DVD technology to keep prices down. Blu-ray discs, however, include an architecture that Sir Howard Stringer, Sony's chairman, calls "revolutionary, not evolutionary."

The Blu-ray camp is trying to create a brand-new technology that will accommodate features that are still to be created. In preparation for that future, Blu-ray discs will store 25 gigabytes of data, compared with the 15 gigabytes on comparable Toshiba discs and 4.7 gigabytes on today's DVD's.

The first batch of high-definition DVD's from the studios' vaults will highlight rich graphics, vivid scenery and fast-moving action. The films include "Rambo," science fiction thrillers like "The Matrix" and "Dune" and animated features like "Ice Age." The DVD's are generally expected to cost $19 to $25.

But movies are only one front in the format war. In throwing its weight behind Toshiba, Microsoft has expanded the fight into the computer and game industries. Later this year, Microsoft will start selling an external drive for its Xbox game that will play HD-DVD discs, countering Sony's effort to turn PlayStation into a high-definition DVD player by adding Blu-ray technology. Microsoft and its ally Intel have also convinced Hewlett-Packard to consider making HD-DVD drives for computers. This would give Toshiba an answer to Dell, which remains committed to the Blu-ray format.

"The pendulum is swinging back to the HD-DVD camp," said John Freeman, who runs a technology research firm, Strategic Marketing Decisions, which last year declared Blu-ray the front-runner. "It will be interesting to see if the Blu-ray group can recover. It's only a matter of time before people start backing out of the Blu-ray camp."

Still, even with Microsoft on board, Toshiba may have only closed the gap, not overtaken the Blu-ray group. With Samsung, Panasonic and others siding with Sony, consumers will see more Blu-ray machines in the stores. And Blu-ray has more studios in its camp, which means more choice in movies. Every major studio except Universal plans to release Blu-ray DVD's, while Toshiba has commitments from only Universal, Warner Brothers and Paramount.

But one thing is clear: given Microsoft's growing power and scope in the entertainment realm -- thanks to its Xbox machines, its media player software and forays into Internet television -- its support of HD-DVD has deepened, and has probably prolonged, the format battle. That means consumers must figure out each format's advantages and risk being stuck with obsolete machines if one camp backs down.

This is giving retailers fits, not only because they have to carry twice as many machines and discs, but also because they have to train their employees to explain the differences between the standards.

"Both sides are digging in their heels and stupidity has prevailed," said Joe McGuire, the chief executive of Tweeter, a high-end electronics chain. Mr. McGuire called the failure of the two camps to agree on a single format "criminal" and said he would have a hard time advising consumers. "The answer to which is better is: 'We don't know,' " he said. "I'm tempted not to sell anyone these machines."

But sell they will, because retailers -- and studios -- need something new to throw at consumers now that DVD players are in 82 percent of American homes. Sales of DVD players are "pretty dead," said John LaRegina, a senior buyer at P.C. Richards, which has 49 stores in the New York area.

But Mr. LaRegina said format battles confused consumers and gave them an excuse not to buy. The uncertainty over who may win also forces film studios and electronics companies to hedge their bets.

Warner Brothers and Paramount, which were originally committed only to HD-DVD, decided last fall to make movies in both formats.

"It was very, very clear that Sony was not going to back down from Blu-ray, and they are basically betting their company on it," said Kevin Tsujihara, the president of Warner Brothers Home Entertainment Group. But, he added, Toshiba has mounted "something of a comeback" by winning endorsements from Microsoft and Intel.

Some Blu-ray companies are also waiting to see how the market develops before jumping in with machines of their own. If the PlayStation 3 is priced below Toshiba's $500 player, it could double as the poor man's Blu-Ray player and undercut Sony's partners. (It will also cost Sony dearly; Merrill Lynch issued a report on Feb. 17 estimating that the first PlayStation 3 players would cost about $900 to produce. If so, Sony could end up with substantial losses on those machines if they are priced around $299, as analysts expect, to compete with the Xbox 360, which has been out since November.)

"It's too early to move into this market," said Katsuhiko Machida, the president of Sharp, a Blu-ray company that has not released details for its players in the United States. "Blu-Ray won't be a big business until probably 2008," he said, so "we can watch and see what happens."

Those doubts are a far cry from Blu-ray's bravado last summer and fall, when it won endorsements from Fox, Lions Gate, Warner Brothers and Paramount. Those agreements, coupled with the presumed sway of the PlayStation 3, led industry analysts at Forrester and elsewhere to predict that Blu-ray would ultimately win the format war.

But two unexpected and little-noticed decisions by the Blu-ray group last spring managed to alienate Microsoft and ultimately revive Toshiba's sagging fortunes.

First, Sony and the Blu-ray group adopted a Java program for interactive features. Microsoft favored a rival called iHD because, among other things, it would work better with its new Vista operating system. The Blu-ray group's board also approved an encryption technology called BD+, which Mr. Majidimehr, Microsoft's vice president for Windows digital media, deemed superfluous.

THESE decisions led Mr. Majidimehr to take a deeper look at the Blu-ray format and whether it would be more expensive to produce, as Toshiba had long contended. Mr. Majidimehr and his deputy, Jordi Ribas, spent the next few months on the phones and flying to Asia to meet with Sony, Panasonic and the other Blu-ray companies.

"We asked them if they are serious, and they told us they were," Mr. Majidimehr said, referring to the added software. Microsoft also received more data that showed that the Blu-ray group was not meeting its targets for producing discs and optical drives. "We were getting a lot of data saying the HD-DVD format was a walk in the park and Blu-ray was having trouble developing theirs," Mr. Majidimehr said.

Microsoft's announcement last September raised alarm bells at Hewlett-Packard, which was coming to similar conclusions. Hewlett-Packard worried that the software included in the Blu-ray format would cost so much in royalties that H-P would be unable to add affordable DVD drives to its computers.

Blu-ray drives cost up to 75 percent more than HD-DVD drives, according to Maureen Weber, the general manager of the personal storage group at Hewlett-Packard and a former spokeswoman for the Blu-ray coalition. "There's not a lot of elbow room," she said of the thin profit margins on computers. "The economics of HD-DVD make a lot more sense for us. I'm starting to wonder about the manufacturing ability of Blu-ray."

A Blu-ray spokesman, Andy Parsons, says his group's royalties, which have not yet been set, will be far lower than critics expect. He also disputed the idea that Toshiba had any advantage because Microsoft or Hewlett-Packard might promote the use of HD-DVD in computers.

"DVD's are about movies and people watch them in their living rooms," he said. "How many people actually use their computer drives to sit and watch movies?"

He added that the price of Blu-ray machines and discs was bound to fall as volume rose. Besides, he said, Toshiba is missing the point by selling cheaper machines, because the first people who buy new technologies typically care less about cost and more about the technology.

There are other industry analysts who contend that Microsoft is simply propping up Toshiba to further its own aims, like countering the PlayStation and combating the spread of Sun's Java software. Nonetheless, Toshiba is happy for the backing, given that the format was written off for dead just a few months ago.

"There's no doubt that everyone has various agendas," said Mark Knox, an adviser to the Toshiba promotion group. "But whatever their agenda, Microsoft's support has been a huge boon to HD-DVD."

For Sony, a fortified rival spells trouble. Not only does it make it harder for Blu-ray to catch on, but it raises questions about Sony's approach of trying to create new formats when consumers turn out to be content with something less ambitious.

That is the lesson Sony learned the hard way in the 1980's with Betamax, and more recently when Apple outdid the Walkman with the iPod. Now it is Toshiba's and Microsoft's turn to challenge Sony's strategy.
422 2006-02-26 "So you're basically desexualizing it at the same time you're demythologizing it," the reporter says, Pascal Plasser-something, she never can get his name right.

Last time he interviewed her, he was reasonably fair, reasonably truthful, not particularly bright, which is why she requested him when she showed up unannounced at the newspaper, rang Hamilton, told him that if he assured her the coverage she deserved for an exclusive of this magnitude, she would talk openly about what just happened.

"No, Pascal," she says. "That's not what I'm doing at all."

She wonders where Win is, and her anger spikes, fear sits in her stomach like lead.

She says: "I can't possibly desexualize what happened to me. It was a sexual crime. Sexual violence that could have exacted the ultimate price. My life."

"It's incredibly courageous for you to do this, Monique," Hamilton says with an air of solemnity, of sorrow, as if he were a damn funeral-home director. "But I must point out that some of your detractors will view this as a political ploy. Governor Crawley, for example.. . ."

"A ploy?" She leans forward on the sofa, holds Hamilton's gaze. "Someone puts a gun to my head, ties me up, rapes me with the intention of murdering me and burning down my house, and that's a ploy?"

"Your talking about it might be construed as.. . ."

"Stuart," she says, and her mettle, her self-control, are remarkable. "I welcome anybody to suggest such a thing. I challenge them. I dare them."

She's not quite sure how she can be so poised, and a part of her is terrified that it isn't normal for her to be this pulled together, that maybe it's the dead calm before a horrific storm, the sane moment before the straitjacket or suicide.

"Why do you say you'd welcome it?" Pascal what's-his-name asks, scribbling notes, flipping a page.

"Anybody," she says ominously. "Anybody who says or suggests such a thing will only succeed in revealing his true character. Good. Let him try."

"Let anybody try."

She looks through the glass, surveys the expanse of bleak partitioned space, journalists in their cubicles, rodents who feed on the garbage and tragedies of others. She looks for Win, waits for his formidable, striking presence to suddenly dominate the newsroom, striding her way. But there is no sign of him, and her hope begins to fade. Anger flares.

He has defied her directive. He has degraded her, belittled her, shown his misogynistic contempt.

"Your new crime initiative -- in fact, published in this very paper this morning, 'any crime, any time,"' Hamilton says. "What might you say now?"

"And will this new cold-case initiative, At Risk, the murder in Tennessee, somehow take a back seat to. . .?"

Win isn't coming. She'll punish him for this.

"I couldn't be more motivated and determined to bring about justice in any violent crime, no matter how long ago it was committed," Lamont says. "In fact, I've assigned Investigator Garano to At Risk full time while he's on leave from my Middlesex County headquarters."

"Leave? So there's a question about whether the shooting of Roger Baptista was merited?" Pascal is suddenly alert, more alert than he has been throughout her brave, painful interview.

"Any time deadly force is used, no matter the apparent circumstances," Lamont says, placing emphasis on the word "apparent," "we must investigate the incident to the fullest."

"Are you implying that the force might have been excessive?"

"I can make no further comment at this time," she says.

Win feels a little guilty walking into the state police crime laboratory with his sealed envelope, knowing that it really isn't fair to bypass backlogs and protocols when he wants evidence analyzed right away.

He doesn't feel the least bit guilty for not showing up at The Globe to further Lamont's relentless political aspirations, to participate in behavior that is inappropriate, outrageous and, in his opinion, self-destructive. Sammy says that her exclusive tell-all is already being talked about in cyberspace, on TV and on the radio, getting everybody primed to read her prurient and pitiful interview. He has decided that she's reckless and irrational, and that's not a good thing if the person is your boss.

The modern brick building with its heavy steel front doors is a haven for Win, a place to go when he wants to unload on Capt. Jessie Huber, discuss cases, complain, confide, ask for advice, maybe for a favor or two. Win walks through the green-and-blue glass-block lobby, heads down a long hallway and helps himself to the familiar open door and finds his friend and mentor, typically dapper in a conservative dark suit and a gray silk cravat, typically on the phone. Huber is tall and thin, bald as a full moon, and women find him sexy, maybe because he is formidable and a good listener. Three years ago he was the senior investigator in Win's unit, then was appointed to take over the labs.

He hangs up when he sees Win, bolts up from his desk, blurts out, "Dammit it, boy!" and hugs him the way men hug, more backslapping than anything else. "Sit, sit! I can't believe it. Tell me what the hell's going on." He shuts the door, pulls a chair close. "I send you to Tennessee, best damn forensic training facility on the planet, right up your alley. Then what? What the hell you doing back up here, and what the hell have you gotten yourself into?"

"You sent me?" Win sits, puzzled. "Thought it was Lamont. Thought it was her brilliant brainstorm to send me to the academy, maybe so she could have me handy to work some small-town case, as she views it, that would make all us big-city folks up here look good."

Huber pauses, as if considering what he's going to say next, then: "You just killed somebody, Win. Let's don't talk politics."

"I killed somebody because of politics. Politics are why I was ordered back up here to have dinner with her, Jessie."

"I'm being used. Given nothing to work with. Can't even find the damn case file."

"Looks like you and me share the same opinion of this At Risk mess she's gotten us into," Huber says.

"I thought it was the governor's initiative, that she's just the quarterback. That's how it was explained.. . ."

"Yes and no," Huber interrupts, leaning forward in his chair, lowering his voice. "This is all about her. She cooked it up, suggested it to Crawley, convinced him it would make the Commonwealth, make him look good. She might get most valuable player, but he's the team owner, right? Not hard to talk a governor, especially Crawley, into something like this -- you know how out of touch governors can be when it comes to minutiae. What do you mean you can't find the case file?"

"Just what I said. The Finlay police case file -- gone. Lost in space."

Huber gets a disgusted look on his face, almost rolls his eyes, mutters, "Jesus, wouldn't you suppose she would have had it sent to her office?" He picks up the phone, dials, glancing up at Win, adding, "Before she dragged you into this?"

"She says. . .," Win starts to reply.

"Hey," Huber says to the person who answers the phone. "I got Win Garano here with me. The Finlay case file. You ever see it?" A pause, then Huber stares at Win, says: "No big surprise. Thanks," and hangs up.

"What?" Win asks, a bad feeling fluttering in his stomach.

"Toby says he got it weeks ago, put it on Lamont's desk."

"She told me she's never seen it. Knoxville P.D.'s never seen it, either. How 'bout giving me Toby's phone number?"

Did Lamont lie? Did she lose the file? Did somebody take it before she ever saw it?

"Politics, my boy," Huber is saying. "Maybe dirty politics," his mentor emphasizes with an ominous look in his eyes, writes down a phone number, hands it to him. "When she first told me about At Risk, I was emphatic that she should never have talked Crawley into it and should try to talk him out of it. 'Any crime, any time.' Jesus. What? We start doing DNA testing on every unsolved violent crime since the great flood? Meanwhile, we've got a backlog of some 500 cases. Real cases with real people out there raping, killing."

"I'm not sure I understand why you would send me to Knoxville." Win can't get past that, feels shaky, a little dazed.

"Thought I was doing you a service. Great place and great on your résumé."

"I know you've always looked out for me.. . .But it just seems coincidental I'm down there and then.. . ."

"Look, it's coincidental to a point," Huber says. "Lamont was determined to work an old case that wasn't local. You happened to be in Tennessee, Win, and happened to be the investigator she wanted involved."

"What if I hadn't been in Tennessee?"

"She would have found some other old case in some other distant town and probably lent you out one way or another. You know, us enlightened New Englanders to the rescue," he adds sarcastically. "Send in the Yankee troops from the land of M.I.T. and Harvard. Easy to bury, too, right? If things don't go so well down there in some quaint little Southern town, eventually maybe even by election time -- everyone up here forgets about it. Lot harder to bury some cold-case homicide that might have happened in Massachusetts, right?"

Huber leans back in his chair, adds, "I hear you're the star down there at the academy."

Win doesn't reply, his thoughts stuck in multiple places. He's sweating under his suit, a cold sweat.

"Your future, Win. I don't think you want to work for her the rest of your life or run around all hours of the day and night working, one dirt bag killing another. Not to mention the money. I sure as hell got tired of it. Training. The best. Grooming. You're so damn talented. I'm thinking you'll be replacing me as lab director when I retire, and I'm counting the days. All depending on the powers to be, who the governor is." He gets a knowing look on his face. "You following me?"

Win isn't following much. Stays silent, has a feeling about Huber. One he's never felt before.

"You trust me now?" Huber says, his face very serious.

Win won't go there, says: "Trust you enough to spend my mental-health day with you, Jessie. That's the way we do things here in the land of Oz when we kill somebody on the job. How 'bout it?"

"I'm not in the stress unit anymore, my good friend. You know that."

"Doesn't matter. And you know that. I'm declaring this an official counseling session with the experienced counselor of my choice. Anybody inquires, I just had my mental-health day. Go on, ask me how I feel."

"Regretful that deadly force was necessary," Win says mechanically. "All broken up about it, can't sleep. Did everything I could to stop him, but he left me no choice. It's tragic. Just a kid, maybe he could have been rehabilitated, added something positive to society."

Huber stares at him for a long moment, then, "I'm gonna throw up."

"All right, then. Grateful he didn't kill Lamont. Or me. Angry the worthless piece of garbage did this to her, to me. Glad he's dead so he doesn't sue me. You mind if I borrow Rake for a little while?" Win holds up the envelope, the back of it sealed with yellow evidence tape initialed by him. "Maybe try out her ESDA magic box or that fancy image-enhancement software you just got or both on a letter? Reminds me, any prints on the money, the thousand dollars in Baptista's pocket?"

"Already ran them in Iafis. Nothing." Huber gets up, goes back behind his desk, sits in his swivel chair.

"You got any thoughts about it?" Win then says. "Robbery gone bad or something else?"

Huber hesitates, says: "Enemies? The list is long, Win. I think by now you're seeing the scary truth for yourself, and I'd be very careful what you tell her, what you ask her, very, very careful. A shame. A damn shame, because you know what? She wasn't like that when she got started, a real buster, took down a lot of dirt bags, had my respect. Let's just put it this way, the word 'ethics' probably isn't in her fancy vocabulary anymore."

"I thought the two of you were buddies. Here she's doing this little favor for your son."

"Right, buddies." He smiles ruefully. "In this business, never let people know what you really think of them. She certainly has no clue what Toby really thinks of her."

"Incompetent and blames everything on everybody else, including Toby. Two guys talking? Between you and me, Geronimo? She's going down," Huber says. "It's really sad."

Next week: Sykes tells Win about another mysterious death.

THE FUNNY PAGES: III: SUNDAY SERIAL Previous chapters are online at www.nytimes.com/funnypages.
423 2006-02-26 ''Domains'' (Feb. 12) is one of my favorite features. As someone who is far from ''finished,'' I'm relieved to read that a woman as accomplished as Donna Shalala considers herself the same. In an air-conditioned world, she is a breath of fresh air...
424 2006-02-26 If Jackie O. was the Snow White of American fashion, her wayward cousin Edith Bouvier Beale was the Cinderella who never made it to the ball. Little Edie, as she was known, has been a fashion antiheroine since she wrapped a skirt upside-down aroun...
425 2006-02-26 The jean genie Rogan Gregory is known for fashionably flawed denim. Now he's bringing his rough-hewn approach to furniture with Rogan Objects, available to order at his new store in TriBeCa. ''I like burning things,'' Gregory says, which explains ...
426 2006-02-26 Melissa Lynn Fleming and Jesse Scott Friedman were married last night by Rabbi Ari Fridkis at the Stony Hill Inn in Hackensack, N.J.

Ms. Fleming, 26, is keeping her name. She is an associate at Pryor Cashman Sherman & Flynn, a New York law firm. She graduated with high honors from Rutgers University and received her law degree from Fordham University.

The bride's father, James W. Fleming of Westfield, N.J., is a ceramics engineer at OFS Laboratories, an optical research company in Murray Hill, N.J. Her mother, Linda F. Mueller of Scotch Plains, N.J., is an administrative assistant at the Schering-Plough Corporation, the pharmaceutical company in Kenilworth, N.J.

Mr. Friedman, also 26, is a financial planning specialist at Smith Barney in New York. He graduated from Brandeis University. His parents, Vicki A. Friedman and Robert A. Friedman, live in Chevy Chase, Md. His father is a real estate agent in a Washington office of the Long & Foster Companies.
427 2006-02-26 Witness now the India of the nouveaux nawabs.

What the jet-setting rich once had to procure on shopping trips to Dubai and Singapore can now be bought here, from Chanel slings to Rolex watches. India is also poised to permit direct foreign investment for single-brand retailers, and when that happens, many more global luxury brands are expected to arrive. The first Lamborghini rolled onto Indian shores a few weeks ago.

The embrace of luxury should not be confused with an exclusive embrace of Western logos: Indian haute couture is also ascendant, palaces are making a comeback (many as hotels), and there's a bull market in Indian contemporary art.

Recently, a Delhi gallery hosted a commercial Picasso exhibition, with works priced at up to $500,000. A loyal customer of the gallery scurried excitedly from drawing to drawing, demanding of the owner: "Six and a half. Six and a half. What can I get for six and a half?" (She meant 6.5 lakh rupees, or a little more than $15,000.) Half of the collection sold in a week. Indian art fetches similar prices today.

Luxury is not a new concept in India. Think of the Mughal emperors and the Hindu maharajahs of yore. They were masters of opulence -- some would say decadence -- famously ordering up saris that took years to weave or Rolls-Royces to be shipped across the sea.

But the maharajahs went out decades ago. And now there is this important change: With the freeing up of the Indian economy and a bullish embrace of ritz, it is possible -- for the first time since independence in 1947 -- to buy ultra-expensive goods in this country and be unafraid to display them. "Splurge. Because you can now," ran a headline in The Hindustan Times, an English-language daily that sponsored a show of Indian and global luxury brands earlier this year.

That headline hinted at another conspicuous change in attitude from the days of socialism: an impatience among the Indian haves with being reminded of the have-nots in their midst. "There's an indifference now," was the verdict of Yogendra Yadav, an analyst with the Center for the Study of Developing Societies in Delhi.

The share of Indians in poverty has fallen since the opening of the economy in 1991, but with the celebration of luxury, the social divide at least appears ever more conspicuous: in India, it is possible today to buy all that is most coveted in the world, just as it is to be denied basic necessities of life.

Certainly, the political imperatives of governing the two Indias are not lost on the government of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. His ruling coalition took power a year ago with a promise not to neglect the poor.

The meteoric growth of the new rich is hard to ignore. A recent report by the National Council for Applied Economic Research, based in New Delhi, forecast that the number of "crorepatis," Indian society's rough equivalent of a millionaire, rose by two-and-half times in the last three years to an estimated 53,000 households nationwide; by today's exchange rate, an Indian "crorepati" household earns about $232,000 a year.

With wealthy Indians vacationing in their own country for the first time in generations, luxury hotels and resorts have blossomed. P.R.S. Oberoi of the Oberoi hotel chain recalled having to cart his own toilet paper when he toured the country, even as recently as 15 years ago. In the last five years alone, Mr. Oberoi's chain has opened six boutique properties, and two more are on the way -- one in Goa, once a hippie paradise, and the other in an old palace near Khajurao, the central Indian town famous for its ancient erotic temple sculptures.

On the rooftop of the Oberoi Hotel here one Sunday afternoon, the Louis Vuitton boutique held a brunch for its most favored customers. A giant Vuitton logo, made of Valentine-red gerber daisies, had been erected in the center of the terrace. The buffet offered tiger prawns on the grill. Moët was poured.

It was a little bit Las Vegas, with a view of the 16th-century dome of Humayun's tomb in the distance. One guest displayed Chanel shades, another a giant Vuitton belt buckle. One man, in a white suit, wore what appeared to be snakeskin shoes, also in white. Raptors circled overhead.

Asked about the resurgence of luxury in India, one client, a tiny Vuitton bag hanging from her wrist, marveled, "You can jolly well get it all here."
428 2006-02-26 Sophie Théallet designs her fledgling clothing label, Motu Tane, with the private-jet set in mind. ''I am stuck in my office,'' says Théallet, who assisted Azzedine Alaïa for 10 years, ''but there are plenty who follow the sun.'' Which explains...
429 2006-02-26 When the Italian leather goods company Tod's tapped Derek Lam to helm its first clothing line, he found inspiration in a photo of the Marlin, a boat that was once host to Jacqueline and John F. Kennedy and is owned by Diego Della Valle, the chairm...
430 2006-02-26 The buzz at the collections was ''very Zandra Rhodes.'' If you had to define your style, what would you say? My garments are totally based around what the print can do -- the print creating all the shape. I think of myself as a print designer who ...
431 2006-02-26 Emilie Neumann Muse, who as a young woman exemplified the crazy, flamboyant competitiveness of the 20's and 30's by swimming in treacherous waters, wrestling alligators, jumping out of airplanes and being buried alive, died on Jan. 23 in East Patchogue, N.Y. She was 98.

The cause was complications of a stroke, her granddaughter Loretta Muse Dill said.

In later decades, Mrs. Muse was a dedicated homemaker whose interests included beekeeping and gardening. Her husband, Fred, did not want their children to know of her daredevil past for fear it might prove overly inspirational, and she herself did not share her stories until they were adults.

But the young Miss Neumann (pronounced NOY-man) exuberantly followed in the footsteps of Gertrude Ederle, also a longtime Bronx resident with a German background, who in 1926 became the first woman to swim the English Channel. In an epoch when breaking records and stretching human achievement were national passions, Miss Neumann in 1929 swam across the East River at the treacherous stretch known as Hell Gate and two weeks later swam for 24 hours straight in tidal waters.

"For no reason at all, except that she wanted to be able to say that she had accomplished such a difficult feat," The New York Daily News said in the caption to a picture on Aug. 12, 1929.

Things quickly got more interesting, pretty much from the moment Miss Neumann met a man who called himself Alligator Jim because of his vocation of wrestling alligators for money.
432 2006-02-26 When you arrive in Paris, there's a tendency to rush to the Sixth Arrondissement and leave Colette and the rest of the First Arrondissement's stores until the end. However, with the opening of the first Marc Jacobs boutique in the Palais Royal, th...
433 2006-02-26 To the Editor:     I was disappointed to read your Feb. 12 editorial ''Table Scraps From Albany,'' in which you chide New York State senators for being ''notoriously cheap'' regarding giving New York City its ''fair share of state funds'' for the ...
434 2006-02-26 When women have to shoulder the load, they arm themselves. Which may explain why Frida Giannini's first collection for Gucci went heavy on the shoulder pads. This spring, shoulders and sleeves required an advanced-placement course. Here are the cr...
435 2006-02-26 We all know that fashion is fickle. But who knew that world events could have such an impact at the cash register? In November, Unity Marketing reported that purchases of luxury apparel had dipped 27 percent from the previous year among luxury-goo...
436 2006-02-26 1971, the British boutique Biba was so successful that an anarchist group called the Angry Brigade bombed it as a symbol of the establishment. Four years later, however, this lavish emporium of cool, where flamingos once strolled and hippie chicks...
437 2006-02-26 Bellocq ... ''Grey Gardens''... White Frosting ... Siouxsie Sioux ... Pants, Pants, Pants ... Celebrity Ghost Busters....
438 2006-02-26 Think about the two types of securities in terms of supply and demand. The market for safe government bonds includes investors who can't buy stocks at all: foreign central banks, other government agencies, some institutional money managers and certain kinds of trusts. Moreover, financial planners may be too eager for their clients to buy safe government bonds. If their paychecks depended solely on whether their clients made or lost money, they might try to avoid losses at all costs.

In other words, it may just be ridiculously easy to raise money for bonds. Or investors' expectations of stock returns may be irrationally low, focused more on crashes than booms. Either way, the equity risk premium wouldn't explain the entire gap in returns. .

We do know, though, that the risk premium must be some part of that gap. According to research by William N. Goetzmann and Robert G. Ibbotson, two finance professors at Yale, that premium has stayed fairly constant over long periods through virtually all of American history. For lack of a better reason, there may just be something special about American capital markets, so that a high equity premium would tend to revert to some sort of long-run average. In other words, the equity premium may be a partial predictor of future stock returns and even the future growth of the economy.

Yet many financial economists believe that the equity risk premium has been dropping in recent times. "Over the last 20 or 30 years there have been dramatic changes in the financial markets," said John C. Heaton, a professor of finance at the University of Chicago. "Investors have become just more comfortable with the stock market. Part of that is education. The other thing is sort of a classic finance effect, which is that the level of diversification that investors have available to them has increased."

Professor Heaton said that with the coming of age of American financial markets, many types of investors have found it easier to diversify their assets. For example, it's easier now for entrepreneurs to bring their businesses to the market, and after selling off shares or partnerships, they can invest in other securities. The same goes for homeowners, who can take equity out of their houses and then diversify their holdings.

The ability to diversify makes the buying of risky assets, like stocks, more palatable. "It makes wealthier people more comfortable holding positions in the stock market," Professor Heaton said. He suggested that the equity risk premium might now be around three or four percentage points. A result is more money available to the corporate sector. "The cost of capital is going down, and therefore we're going to see more investment," he added. "The riskier projects that investors would have shied away from are now going to be taken on."

But does this mean more economic growth? It may in the long term, if those risky investments pay off at a higher rate than less-risky alternatives. In the shorter term the effects may be quite different.

In addition to the long-term decline in the equity risk premium, there may be changes over the course of the business cycle, said Campbell R. Harvey, a professor of international business at Duke University. "If you're in the depths of a recession, to get people to use some of their income and invest in the stock market, you have to offer a larger premium to do that," he said. When times improve, the necessity of paying a premium fades a bit; people are more willing to take on risk when they're feeling more comfortable in general.

THE last couple of business cycles have been pretty mild, Professor Harvey noted. But he said that the reduction in the equity risk premium could actually mean lower growth in the near future. "It's true that we've got lower volatility, but with the lower volatility, there's a lower expected return," he said. "The lower expected return translates into a lower growth rate in the economy." Professor Harvey predicted that the economy would expand at a rate of about 3.25 percent annually in the next several years, well below its long-term average in boom times.

Yet even if the economy's growth slows down, people could feel better off than they did before. "In my opinion, the lower volatility of economic growth helps the people that are less advantaged," Professor Harvey said. "Those are the people that are most likely to be laid off in a recession. There's less disruption in the part of our population that's less well off."
439 2006-02-26 In a town where power is measured by proximity to celebrities, even dead celebrities aren't immune to the latest craze: ghost busters. Who you gonna call? The prince of the paranormal, Dr. Larry Montz, who charges $500 and up to connect with super...
440 2006-02-26 With a winsome collection of vintage pumps that pays homage to its archive,Bally, the 155-year-old Swiss hoemaker that takes credit for the first boots worn on the moon, has something new to ballyhoo. To commemorate the redesign of its Madison Ave...
441 2006-02-26 Next year it may be known as the Nate Robinson Rule.      Robinson missed 14 dunks before he converted for the All-Star contest-winning dunk. He missed eight in a previous round. The agonizing near misses caused controversy when he beat Andre Iguo...
442 2006-02-26 As a centrist Democrat, I believe that Chuck Hagel may be the Republican Party's best weapon in 2008. The next election will not be decided by the now-dwindling number of rank-and-file Republicans who still support President Bush but by a candidat...
443 2006-02-26 AS the team behind "Cinderella Man" is aware, when films don't find their audience the first time around studios have been known, on occasion, to give them a second chance. But it's the rare film that gets four chances.

That's the case with "The Last American Hero," a 1973 movie getting its first DVD release this month. Based on a 1965 Tom Wolfe article, "The Last American Hero Is Junior Johnson. Yes!," it chronicled Johnson's rise from North Carolina bootlegger's son to stock-car racing champion and Southern folk hero. A young Jeff Bridges, fresh from roles in "The Last Picture Show" and "Bad Company," played the lightly fictionalized driver, anchoring a cast that included Ned Beatty and Geraldine Fitzgerald.

20th Century Fox expected an action-adventure film from the director, Lamont Johnson, but what it received instead was a character study about redemption and the ties that bind fathers and sons. "Fox didn't really care much for it," Mr. Johnson, now 83, said recently.

Mr. Johnson was taken with the article's dirt-and-spit atmosphere, he said, and wanted to replicate it by improvising scenes and casting non-actors in smaller roles. The studio didn't think much of the movie as a racing film, he said, "but it was never supposed to be a straight racing film."

While Mr. Johnson was out of the country working on another project, Fox made a number of edits. When he returned, he found that the studio had renamed the movie "Hard Driver" and released it in a few theaters in the South in spring 1973.

That, it seemed, was that. At least until Fox ran the film in New York for a week during the summer, and the influential critic Pauline Kael saw it. She wrote a glowing review for The New Yorker, comparing "The Last American Hero" favorably to the critically acclaimed "Deliverance." She wrote that Mr. Johnson's film "isn't about stock-car racing, any more than 'The Hustler' was only about shooting pool" and added a plea for "someone in the head office at Fox" to restore the cuts.
444 2006-02-26 It's a quibble, I know, but was Donna Shalala serious when she said: ''I get up at 5:30 a.m., get dressed and take the dog for a walk around my neighborhood. Then I come home, work out for an hour, shower, read six newspapers and head to the offic...
445 2006-02-26 BAREISS -- Molly (Mary) Stimson. Molly (Mary) Stimson Bareiss (1920-2006) was the soul that held our family together. She was a true, no nonsense Yankee with a generous heart, a gentle spirit and a fierce loyalty. She guarded the inner circle, was...
446 2006-02-26 The Dow Jones industrial average retreated slightly for the week after reaching its highest level since 2001 on Wednesday. But both the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Nasdaq composite index managed to eke out small weekly gains.The Walt...
447 2006-02-26 Although the concept of rental gowns has not been embraced by top designers like Vera Wang, Reem Acra or Monique Lhuillier, or by major retailers such as Kleinfeld's, some wedding boutiques are finding that segment of the business to be lucrative. Giselle Gaston of Alexandria's said she's seen her business increase by 30 percent a year over the last three years. The Fancy Wedding Center, a sales and rental shop in Brooklyn (www.fancyweddingcenter.com), reports that its rental business has doubled since 1997.

Peggy Post, the author of "Emily Post's Wedding Etiquette," said the interest in renting gowns is possibly a response to the escalating costs of ever-more elaborate weddings. When she was researching the book she noted that gowns and the accessories (shoes, jewelry) ran $1,000 to $1,800, "with designer dresses running into the multiple thousands," she said. "You don't have to spend a lot of money to have a great wedding."

Ms. Post said the trend toward more personalization in weddings "has allowed couples to be creative with their money. There are so many choices, which is how I think the rental thing came about."

Laura Roehrman-Paperny, a fledgling New York playwright who was married in San Francisco in August 2004, said she would never have rented because she considers her dress, a $1,600 gown now hanging in the closet of her mother's house in Northern California, a keepsake. "You want your dress to be your own, unique and special," she said. "Maybe you could pass it down to your daughter someday."

Mrs. Thevenin countered that while she harbored some regret that she had to give up "the fantasy of passing the dress down to my daughter," she said that "styles change so much, and who knows if she would even want it?"

Underlying the reluctance of some is an intangible concern about whether wearing a rented gown is a mark of bad taste. Ms. Post said the "etiquette faux pas" lies not in the wearing of a rented wedding gown. "A faux pas would be discussing how much you did and didn't spend."

Some would-be wearers will wring their hands over a garment's provenance. While it would be rare to find a man mulling whether the dinner jacket he's renting was previously worn by a bridegroom whose marriage ended badly, women are sometimes wary that the previous wearer's bad vibes might rub off.

"Know the background of the dress," advises Debbie DeSpirt, a feng shui consultant in Toronto. If previous wearers are "divorced or having a rotten relationship," she says that energy will accumulate in the dress or tuxedo and mix with your own when you wear it. That notion did not faze Mrs. Thevenin, however. "I'm not superstitious," she said.

This superstition does not appear to weigh heavily on Asian brides. Yoshiyuki Kohara, who works in Tokyo as director of the Asian market for the Association of Bridal Consultants, said that in Japan it has been common for 50 years to rent either a traditional kimono or a Western-style gown. It can cost "$1,300 to $2,000" for either one, he said, adding that the price of a new, fine-quality kimono can be $10,000.

Women marrying for a second time might have a more relaxed attitude toward renting. Robin Callif, 37, had a practical mind-set for her second marriage last September, to Michael Callif, 40. Mrs. Callif, a vice president at SS&K, a communications consulting firm in New York, where she had worked on fund-raising initiatives for Unicef, found MyrJan (www.myrjan.com) on the Internet.

"I was afraid they were going to be dresses that had been worn into the ground," Mrs. Callif said. But once she had established a rapport with Ms. McCormack, MyrJan's owner, those fears were allayed. "I got the dress I wanted, and she fitted it as if she had made it herself." Renting is not always inexpensive. Ms. McCormack said she once rented a $10,000 couture dress for $2,000. (Her prices include alterations; other shops may charge. And major alterations are not typically allowed.)

Brides with their hearts set on vintage gowns sometimes look to Jana Starr in Manhattan (www.janastarr.com). "When you have a one-of-a-kind dress, you can't plan to rent it months in advance," she said. But what a customer might have to give up in terms of a fixed dress style is offset, she said, by the promise of quick delivery. "I've rented dresses if it's Saturday and the wedding is Tuesday," she said.

Veils are a more commonly rented item, Ms. Starr said. Lace veils from the late 1800's can be rented for 30 percent of what they might cost to buy.

Related businesses are starting to recognize the wisdom and practicality of renting to brides. "They're already spending a lot on their wedding," said Bert Stouffer of Liberty, Mo., who recently started an online jewelry store, Adorn (www.adorninc.com). "Why would they want to wear costume jewelry?"

But what about the risk of damage or loss?"

"In 12 years, I have only had three gowns that were trashed and a few items such as veils and shoes not returned," said Jean Claiborne, owner of Unforgettable Rentals (www.elegant-rentals.com) in Gatlinburg, Tenn. "Most brides are so thrilled that they can have the gown of their dreams at a reasonable price, they are very responsible."

Mrs. Callif sought to put the question of whether to own or rent in perspective. "The guy should be forever," she said. " Not the dress."

FIELD NOTES Correction: March 5, 2006, Sunday The Field Notes column last Sunday, about wedding dress rentals, misspelled the surname of a playwright who was married in 2004. She is Laura Rohrman-Paperny, not Roehrman-Paperny.
448 2006-02-26 Q. We live in a 1,700-unit co-op in which the financial situation is not that great. I have asked to see current financial information, including monthly financials and reserve accounts, and have received no response from the board or management c...
449 2006-02-26 Why live in a shoe box on West 10th Street when you can get enough closet space to stow a few seasons' worth of Lanvin heels on 141st Street in the Bronx? No longer able to afford both style and shelter, rent refugees are colonizing the fringes of...
450 2006-02-26 The art-world fixture and sometime electro-rap mom Yvonne Force Villareal and her pal Doreen Remen want you to walk all over them. Or, more accurately, over their new line of artist-designed rugs, Works on Whatever (or WOW). The duo's nonprofit Ar...
451 2006-02-26 What an ideal moment to reflect on the place of Siouxsie Sioux, the singer, style icon and all-around scourge, in the cultural firmament. ''The Scream,'' her debut record with the Banshees, is getting a dust-off, while the American DVD of ''Dreams...
452 2006-02-26 Thank you for your interesting and amusing interview with Donna Shalala. It reminded me of a personal anecdote. At our 1991 graduation ceremony at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, Shalala, then the chancellor of the university, personally hand...
453 2006-02-26 Visitors who want to cut the line at Universal Studios and Islands of Adventure theme parks in Orlando now have to pay. The parks are doing away with the free Universal Express service, which, like Disney's FastPass, let visitors skip long lines f...
454 2006-02-26 This spring, 60's white is not just for frugging. Christian Louboutin's wood-heel pump ($590 at Christian Louboutin, 941 Madison Avenue) and Valentino's ''Miami Vice'' sunglasses ($220 at select Solstice Sunglass stores) are the perfect way to thu...
455 2006-02-26 Attention, Biennial bag ladies! Eli Sudbrack, the artist known as Assume Vivid Astro Focus (Avaf), is bringing psychedelic chic to LeSportsac. He has bedazzled the art world with his Day-Glo installations, like a disco floor for the Central Park r...
456 2006-02-26 To the Editor:     The theory that men rent to avoid commitment (and have a more impressive bachelor pad), while women own to declare self-reliance is a refreshing antidote to the Carrie-Bradshaw-can't-buy-her-apartment-but-has-a-downpayment's-wor...
457 2006-02-26 To the Sports Editor:     Most of us were delighted to see merit replace the obscure and sometimes questionable standards so long in place in the judging of figure skating, but how quickly the merit requirement has led to calamity. Now required to...
458 2006-02-26 With so many new trouser options available for spring, the question is no longer ''Who wears the pants?'' It's ''What shoes do you wear with them?'' Wide-legged slacks are traditionally punctuated with flats, while capris are best balanced with a ...
459 2006-02-26 JOE KUBERT, a legendary comic book creator and longtime Dover resident, is in the middle of reviving the comics career of Sgt. Rock, indomitable hero of World War II and the best-known soldier in the DC Comics stable.     The six-part miniseries, ...
460 2006-02-26 CESAR'S WAY The Natural, Everyday Guide to Understanding & Correcting Common Dog Problems. By Cesar Millan, with Melissa Jo Peltier. 304 pp., Harmony Books. $24.95.

LIVING A DOG'S LIFE Jazzy, Juicy and Me. By Cindy Adams. 240 pp., St. Martin's Press. $19.95.

ANYONE who has ever watched a grown man hold the tip of a Dorito between his lips so that his slobbering hound can gingerly grasp the rest of the chip with its muzzle in an act of owner-dog snack synergy knows the truth of Jada Pinkett Smith's observation, "We humans are the ones who have lost the concept of the natural order in which our dogs function."

Ms. Pinkett Smith makes this point in "Cesar's Way: The Natural, Everyday Guide to Understanding & Correcting Common Dog Problems," a book by the serene and mesmerizing celebrity dog trainer Cesar Millan, the star of the television show "Dog Whisperer," whose clients include Nicolas Cage, Will and Jada Smith, and Hilary Duff (and their pets).

The show has as many moments of suspense and showdown as "Survivor" and "American Idol" combined. Can a screeching, lunging hellcat of a Chihuahua named Hootie learn to quit hurling himself, fangs first, at his owner's young son and can his doting owner learn to put her son's safety above her dog's? Can a demented Labrador named Brady be freed of his obsessive-compulsive urge to fling himself again and again into Jim's backyard pool and can Jim learn to stop tacitly egging him on?

A start-up voice-over tells us to expect miracles: "When good dogs go bad, there's one man who's their best friend: Cesar Millan." On comes Cesar, in reassuring yet commanding tones, Spanish-inflected: "No dog is too much for me," he says. "I rehabilitate dogs, I train people. I am the dog whisperer." He deserves a cape and mask.

The book transfers Mr. Millan's lessons from the screen to the page, laying out common human and dog foibles ("Hyperactive Energy," "Dangerous Aggression," "Low Self-Esteem," "Separation Anxiety"), and the strategies Mr. Millan has developed to overcome them in man and beast. He enlists the pets of his famous clientele to illustrate his precepts. When he writes, "Just like children, dogs need rules, boundaries and limitations in order to be properly socialized," he uses Oprah's dog Sophie as an example. "Sophie didn't have many rules, and those that did exist weren't always followed." Not to worry: "I stressed to Oprah that it was almost never too late for a dog to be rehabilitated. Even humans can turn their own lives around at age 50, 60 or 70, and we have many more issues than dogs do!"
461 2006-02-26 That was a stimulating article on a senator I had previously dismissed as being too extreme. It is refreshing to hear blunt words from politicians. I agree that religion is a private matter. And I was moved by the story of Hagel's upbringing; perh...
462 2006-02-26 KISSEL--William Thorn Jr. died February 10. Beloved husband of Barbara Case Kissel (d. 1978), beloved father of Michael Case Kissel and William Thorn Kissel III (d. 1980), beloved father-in-law of Elena Thornton Kissel, beloved Grandfather of Sien...
463 2006-02-26 If Reese Witherspoon and Angelina Jolie are wearing this jewelry, why not you? Two former Condé Nasters, Gillian Conroy and Danica Wilcox, are designing 18-karat-gold bijoux for the nature girl at heart. Their floricultural designs, like the thor...
464 2006-02-26 Senator Chuck Hagel may be a loner, but he is not alone in feeling that the Republican Party has gotten off track (Joseph Lelyveld, Feb. 12). I know many people who, like myself,have beenlifelong Republicans but scarcely recognize our party today....
465 2006-02-26 Noir's eco-friendly fashion.If you think that clothing with a conscience sounds about as sexy as cutting-edge fashion from Denmark, think again. Noir (above), a new label founded by the Copenhagen native Peter Ingwersen and designed by Rikke Wienm...
466 2006-02-27 Shares of Dana Corp. jumped nearly 50 percent early Monday, before falling back later in the day, as investors struggled to handicap the company’s chances of avoiding a Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing. Reports on Friday that Dana, an auto parts mak...
467 2006-02-27 Readers respond to Bob Herbert's Feb. 27 column, "Ike Saw It Coming." Don Kadlec, Portland, Ore.: You've hit the nail on the head, Mr. Herbert. Karl Rove's game has been and always will be, hide behind the flag and thump the Bible, and the nation ...
468 2006-02-27 Rosneft President Sergei Bogdanchikov is courting investors to build the Russian state oil company’s $20 billion initial public stock offering into the main event on the world’s emerging markets this year. Go to Article from Reuters »...
469 2006-02-27 Richard Grasso hadn’t been pushed out of the New York Stock Exchange in September 2003 after disclosure of a $139 million compensation package, would the venerable Wall Street institution be going public? We’ll never know for sure, of course. ...
470 2006-02-27 Calculated Risk steers us to a research report by Merril Lynch economist David Rosenberg, who has been keeping an eye on the housing price boom and its impact on consumer spending. The quick take: Net worth goes up before, during and after recessi...
471 2006-02-27 Pressure is mounting on Dame Marjorie Scardino, the chief executive of Pearson, to sanction the 500 million pound sale of the Financial Times — something she has said will only happen “over my dead body.” Two leading shareholders are publicl...
472 2006-02-27 London-based hedge fund managers are facing a regulatory clampdown from both British and American watchdogs. The Financial Services Authority will next month detail where it is going on regulating hedge funds and their managers, after a six-month ...
473 2006-02-27 Microsoft Corp. vowed Friday to appeal a decision by South Korea’s antitrust regulators concluding the U.S. company had abused its market dominance and ordering it to offer alternative versions of Windows. The commission had ruled that Microsoft...
474 2006-02-27 China’s largest containerboard maker, Nine Dragons Paper Ltd. , demanded top dollar for shares in its US$438 million initial public offering Friday. Investors, eager to grab a piece of the biggest IPO in Hong Kong so far this year, paid HK$3.40 ...
475 2006-02-27 The business model of Hollywood may be in flux and the future may seem uncertain, but that's no reason to spoil the party. In fact, BizBash, which keeps track of such things, suggests that various swells will drop $150 million on Oscar-related fes...
476 2006-02-27 Stacey Snider (Vince Bucci/Getty Images) The long goodbye of Stacy Snider at Universal has reached a new and more substantial inflection point, according to my colleague Sharon Waxman. So far, she could be at Universal until the end of the year, b...
477 2006-02-27 SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 26 - A cryptic Web site that was set up by Microsoft but does not bear its name appears to hint that the company will reveal information about a new consumer product on Thursday. The site caused a flurry of speculation on Internet gadget gossip sites over the weekend.

The Web site, www.origamiproject.com, suggests that the introduction of a personalized mobile device that "will change your life" is in the offing, but gives no details. It promises an update on Thursday.

A video clip unearthed by bloggers on the Web site of the video production firm Digital Kitchen appears to be an advertisement for a hand-held, wireless touch-screen computer from Microsoft called Origami. Paul Mattheus, Digital Kitchen's chief executive, and a press contact listed on its Web site did not return phone calls or e-mail messages on Sunday.

Richard Doherty, the president of Envisioneering, a consumer electronics consulting firm, said that his company had received an invitation to a briefing for analysts at Microsoft's headquarters in Redmond, Wash., on Thursday.

"It's a 'technology' we've been invited to see," Mr. Doherty said. "That could be all kinds of things. But a device that is near to shipping would be surprising. If Microsoft was working with any of the major chip makers on a new device, it would be a long shot that that piece of information would not slip out until the product was almost ready."
478 2006-02-27 CBS Plans Subscription Service That Sends News and Entertainment to Cellphones  The CBS Corporation is expected to announce the first subscription services that send news and entertainment alerts, including video clips, to mobile phones. The servi...
479 2006-02-27 Cablevision is close to an agreement to carry the Mets' new cable network, SportsNet New York, that would allow the channel to be seen throughout the metropolitan region.     But Mark Harrad, a spokesman for Time Warner Cable, which is a partner w...
480 2006-02-27 Mr. McCabe, a towering, beefy man with a gentle manner and a Brooklyn accent, was regarded as a master of surveillance. By studying behavior, he sorted out bosses, soldiers and pretenders and was said to never have forgotten a face.

In 1972, The New York Times reported the scene when he identified Carmine Tramunti, then the acting boss of the Luchese crime family.

"That's him, all right," Mr. McCabe said as the man appeared after a three-hour stakeout. "Easy now. Wait till be gets into his car."

A car carrying detectives suddenly screeched around the corner and cut off Mr. Tramunti at the curb. They thrust a subpoena in his hand, which he promptly crumpled, while mouthing obscenities. That was one of 300 subpoenas issued that day in the sort of sweeping operation that typified Mr. McCabe's career, a period when law enforcement ground down organized crime. Proving conspiracies was a dominant part of this effort, and Mr. McCabe's photographic memory was as necessary as his photographs.

James B. Comey, a former United States attorney in Manhattan, cited an example: investigators needed to link someone in the Luchese family directly with a Gambino capo.

"That's easy," Mr. McCabe said. "The 1983 Gallo wedding."

Seemingly tiny things he discerned mattered mightily, said Walter Mack, former chief of the organized crime unit in the Manhattan federal prosecutor's office.

"If so-and-so is walking in with so-and-so, that's a major seismic change," Mr. Mack said.

Patrick J. Fitzgerald, the special prosecutor in the Valerie Plame leak investigation, who had worked with Mr. McCabe in Manhattan, said: "If you went to ask him a name of somebody involved in organized crime, not only did he know the person, but he might have arrested him once or twice, or been to his house."

Mr. McCabe contributed critical evidence to the trials of Paul Castellano, the head of the Gambino family until he was gunned down in 1985; the "commission" that coordinated Mafia activities; John Gotti and many more.

A 1984 picture, reproduced many times, showed Mr. McCabe arresting Mr. Castellano. According to 1986 court papers, he then doggedly watched social clubs and funerals to determine definitively that Mr. Gotti had succeeded him.

Mr. McCabe wrote no books, did not court politicians and avoided interviews. In court, however, he revealed much. His command of detail recalled "the steel-trap mind of a card counter," the columnist Steve Dunleavy wrote in The New York Post in 2004.

In a trial in 2003, Mr. McCabe told of a new edict requiring Cosa Nostra initiates to have both a mother and father who are Italian. He also revealed then that the Bonanno crime family had changed its name to Massino.

Joseph Massino later went to prison for murder, and his successor, Vincent Basciano, faces murder and racketeering charges. Mr. Basciano's trial was postponed because so many law enforcement leaders attended Mr. McCabe's funeral.

Kenneth James McCabe was born in the Park Slope neighborhood of Brooklyn on May 14, 1946. His father was an assistant district attorney in Brooklyn.

He attended local Roman Catholic schools and graduated from Loyola College in Maryland. He joined the Police Department in 1968, the same year he married Kathleen Moriarty.

She survives him, along with his daughters, Kerry McCabe and Kelly McCabe Casey, both of Breezy Point, and Kristen McCabe Ryan, of Rockaway Beach, Queens; his son, Kenneth Jr. of Marine Park, Brooklyn; his sisters, Rosemary Travis of Fairfield, Conn., and Anne Marie Grozinger, of Breezy Point; his brothers, John, of Hampton, N.J., and James, of Chesapeake, Va.: and five grandchildren.

Mr. McCabe was beaten at least once and threatened many times, but his straightforward manner earned a grudging respect even from mobsters, some of whom requested that he be the one to arrest them. In 2001, Jerry Capeci wrote in his online column, "This Week in Gang Land," about an encounter Mr. McCabe had in 1991 with Anthony Spero, a consigliere in the Bonanno family, while observing him in Bath Beach, Brooklyn.

Mr. Spero approached Mr. McCabe's car and the two exchanged jokes. Mr. Spero said he planned to retire. Mr. McCabe replied that he hoped he would go somewhere warm, because he "didn't want to do surveillance in the cold."

The mobster did not retire. Mr. McCabe watched his comings and going in Bath Beach for seven more years, until Mr. Spero was arrested on charges of racketeering and murder, charges on which he was convicted in 2001.
481 2006-02-27 The Brooklyn Philharmonic opened its 51st season on Saturday evening, with its new music director, Michael Christie, on its podium. Mr. Christie has his work cut out for him. His predecessor in Brooklyn, Robert Spano, conducted each of his programs twice, and before Mr. Spano, Dennis Russell Davies led weekend thematic extravaganzas. Now the orchestra's parlous finances cover only single performances. Clearly it is up to Mr. Christie to create an excitement that will attract audiences and money to make expansion -- or reclamation -- possible.

He is off to a good start. His programming for the season is fresh and adventurous, and he has made himself as accessible as can be. On Saturday he gave a preconcert lecture, offered remarks between two of the works, and returned to the stage to field audience questions after the performance. That practice, apparently, will be standard.

His inaugural program was properly festive. Its main draw was Orff's splashy "Carmina Burana," for which the orchestra commissioned new choreography from Nicholas Leichter. It also solicited a curtain-raiser from John Corigliano, who had the inspired idea of writing a short, rhythmically and contrapuntally lively fanfare for a kazoo ensemble placed in the balconies and along the aisles downstairs, with occasional punctuation from brass and percussion on the stage.

The first half of the program was otherwise devoted to Stravinsky's compact "Symphonies of Wind Instruments" (1920) and Philip Glass's "Hymn to Aten," from his 1984 opera, "Akhnaten." A touch of raggedness at the start of the Stravinsky was quickly corrected in a performance that was zesty and focused. And if the ensemble wanted greater lushness in the Glass, the strings contributed an appealing suppleness, and Daniel Taylor, a countertenor, sang the vocal line with a pleasingly rich timbre and sufficient power.

"Carmina Burana," Orff's 1934 setting of bawdy medieval poetry, is a musical comic book, couched in bright hues and exclamation points, with a text made for dialogue bubbles. Mr. Leichter's choreography was in that spirit. Kinetic and sometimes almost mechanistic, but just as often the picture of fluid physicality, it was about movement on its own terms rather than as an interpretation of the text.

Mr. Christie drew an energetic performance from his players, who were mostly (but for two pianos and the percussionists) in the pit, having ceded the stage to Mr. Leichter's troupe, Nicholasleichterdance and the massed voices of the New York Virtuoso Singers, the Canticum Novum Singers, Westchester Oratorio Society, University of Buffalo Chorus and Choir, and Brooklyn Youth Chorus. Stephen Powell sang the solo baritone music excitingly, and Mr. Taylor and Hanan Alattar, a soprano, made lovely contributions as well.
482 2006-02-27 Reached by telephone, Ulrich Wilhelm, the chief spokesman for the German government, declined to comment on Sunday on the role of the German agents.

The prelude to the Iraq war was a period of intense strain in German-American relations. In his 2002 political campaign, Gerhard Schröder, then the German chancellor, warned against an invasion and vowed that Germany would not participate. President Bush declined to make the customary congratulatory phone call to Mr. Schröder when he won re-election that September. Annoyed by the antiwar stances of Germany and France, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld offended the two nations by labeling them "old Europe" shortly before the war in March 2003.

Longstanding relations between American and German intelligence agencies, however, persisted. As the American military prepared to invade Iraq, the German intelligence agents operated in Baghdad.

Among their tasks, they sought to obtain Mr. Hussein's plan to defend Baghdad, the United States study asserts. For years, the Iraqi military had relied on a strategy that called for deploying Iraqi forces along the invasion route to Baghdad in the hope of bloodying and weakening an invading army before it arrived at the capital.

But on Dec. 18, 2002, Mr. Hussein summoned his commanders to a strategy session where a new plan was unveiled, former Iraqi officers and government officials told American interrogators. Among those attending were Qusay Hussein, the Iraqi leader's son who oversaw the Republican Guard; Lt. Gen. Sayf al-Din Fulayyih Hasan Taha al-Rawi, the Republican Guard chief of staff, and other Republican Guard generals. Mr. Hussein's instructions were to mass troops along several defensive rings near the capital, including a "red line" that Republican Guard troops would hold to the end.

An account of the German role in acquiring a copy of Mr. Hussein's plan is contained in the American military study, which focuses on Iraq's military strategy and was prepared in 2005 by the United States Joint Forces Command.

After the German agents obtained the Iraqi plan, they sent it up their chain of command, the study said.

In February 2003, a German intelligence officer in Qatar provided a copy to an official from the United States Defense Intelligence Agency who worked at the wartime headquarters of the overall commander, Gen. Tommy R. Franks, according to the American military study. Officials at the agency shared the plan with the Central Command's J-2 office, or intelligence division. That division supplied information for the report.

The classified study contains a copy of the sketch supplied by the Germans. "The overlay was provided to the Germans by one of their sources in Baghdad (identity of the German sources unknown)," the study notes. "When the bombs started falling, the agents ceased ops and went to the French Embassy."

That account of German assistance differs from one the German government has provided publicly. After the election of a new government led by Chancellor Angela Merkel in 2005, German officials insisted that they had not provided substantial help to the United States-led coalition. Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier, who was Mr. Schröder's chief of staff during the invasion, denounced news media reports last month that German agents had picked targets for American warplanes as "absurd."

On Thursday, the German government released a new report that acknowledged that German agents had provided some intelligence but suggested it was very limited. The 90-page report is the public version of a much longer classified account. The public report, for example, stated that the agents provided information on "civilian protected or other humanitarian sites, such as Synagogues and Torah rolls and the possible locations of missing U.S. pilots." It said that agents also provided the United States with descriptions of "the character of military and police presence in the city" and "descriptions in isolated cases of Iraqi military forces along with geographic coordinates." The report noted that as the war approached, the German diplomatic corps was evacuated, but on March 17, just days before the invasion, the German agents were instructed to remain in Baghdad.

The public report, however, did not mention anything about securing the Baghdad defense plan or passing it to the United States military, nor has the German government released any information about that.

A majority of the German Parliament did not support a call for a formal inquiry into any German intelligence assistance last week. "The issue has been cleared up, and all allegations dispelled," said Norbert Röttgen, chairman of the parliamentary control committee, which reviewed the classified version of the German report. Some opposition politicians, however, have argued that a further investigation is needed.

Germany is not the only case in which a government that warned against the invasion quietly helped United States forces wage the war. The Egyptian president, Hosni Mubarak, publicly warned that the invasion of Iraqi might lead to a human catastrophe and insisted that Egypt would not provide direct help to a United States-led military coalition. "It is not the case, and it won't be the case," he said in late March 2003.

But Mr. Mubarak quietly allowed United States aerial refueling tankers to be based at an Egyptian airfield, according to a United States military official involved in managing the air war against Iraq, who asked to remain anonymous because he was speaking about delicate diplomatic arrangements.

The tankers were used to refuel Navy aircraft in the Mediterranean and land-based warplanes on their missions to and from Iraq. United States warplanes also flew through Egyptian airspace to carry out missions over Iraq, American military officials said.

United States nuclear-powered vessels were allowed to quickly move through the Suez Canal, and cruise missiles were fired at targets in Iraq from the Red Sea.

The Saudis have played down the extent of their cooperation with the Bush administration. But they allowed the Delta Force and other American Special Operations Forces to mount attacks in Iraq from a secret base at Arar, Saudi Arabia, according to United States commandos who asked not to be identified because their operations were secret. The public Saudi explanation was that the area was being cordoned off for a potential flood of Iraqi refugees.

In the months before the war, military aides to the Joint Chiefs of Staff began to write a classified list of which nations had joined President Bush's "coalition of the willing" to topple Mr. Hussein and soon discovered that they had to add categories. While Germany had loudly opposed the war, it did not obstruct the United States military's efforts and even offered limited cooperation. So Germany was listed as "noncoalition but cooperating," said a Pentagon official who asked to remain anonymous because the list was not public. Saudi Arabia and Egypt were more supportive but did not want to be perceived as facilitating the attack. They were listed as "silent partners."

Besides the support by German intelligence, the German government cooperated with the United States military in other ways.

German ships guarded the sea lanes near the Horn of Africa as part of Task Force 150, an effort to deter terrorist attacks in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden, for example. The patrols helped safeguard the waterways the United States used to build up its forces in the Persian Gulf for the invasion of Iraq.

German troops were also part of a "consequence management" team, at the United States military base at Camp Doha, Kuwait, which was charged with protecting Kuwaitis after a chemical attack. The measure was justified as defensive. German personnel also guarded American military bases in Germany, freeing United States soldiers to go to Iraq.

When NATO debated whether to send Awacs radar planes and Patriot missile batteries to Turkey, a move the United States was promoting to help persuade Ankara to open a northern front in Iraq, Germany initially was opposed. But it soon dropped its objections. Germany later provided the missiles for the Patriot batteries sent to Turkey.

The Iraq defense plan passed on to General Franks's command was the subject of considerable debate in the Iraqi military. Some officers contended it did not sufficiently account for terrain or the capabilities of the United States military.

American intelligence thought before the war that crossing the "red line" on the plan would be the trigger for an Iraqi chemical attack. But after the war, United States intelligence determined that the use of chemical or germ weapons had never been contemplated in the plan, according to the Iraq Survey Group, a task force set up by the Central Intelligence Agency to investigate what had happened to Iraq's chemical, biological and nuclear programs.

The Baghdad Defense Plan, the Iraqi Survey Group reported, had its origins in tactics taught to Iraqi officers in Britain in the 1950's and in British-style training in Pakistan.

There is no question, however, that it reflected the thinking of Mr. Hussein and his top aides, according to United States government interviews of senior Iraqi officers. According to the United States military study, an Iraqi general responsible for defending the southern approaches to Baghdad raised concerns about the wisdom of the plan. Qusay Hussein cut off the discussion.

"Qusay said the plan was already approved by Saddam and 'it was you who would now make it work,' " the Republican Guard commander told his American interrogators.
483 2006-02-27 DESVIGNE--Lois McCalla. 77. On February 24, 2006. Pioneer educator for 32 years. Beloved teacher, principal and mentor. Devoted mother and wife. Survived by husband Lloyd of 57 years, five of her six children, six grandchildren, six great-grandchi...
484 2006-02-27 "My whole vision has been to take Macintosh-class technology and to move it into new places," he said during an interview in his office, which was filled with more than a dozen smart phones in various stages of disassembly.

Samsung executives said they had engaged Mr. Mercer and Iventor to design a user interface for the Z5 because they were hoping to offer an ease of use that matched that of the iPod, which has a simple screen and a distinctive touch-sensitive scroll wheel for making selections.

"Paul helped us to design and develop a user interface for the Z5 from the beginning," said Phillip Chung, vice president for the digital audiovisual division at Samsung Electronics.

Samsung's choice of Mr. Mercer also shows how much consumer electronics now rely on the powerful computing capabilities that defined personal computers two decades ago. Samsung is betting that it can win a share of the music market dominated by Apple by using new software that mimics what is found in powerful PC's.

The Z5, shaped like a stick of gum, has a 1.8-inch color screen and a 35-hour battery life, and is priced at $199 to $249 to compete with the iPod Nano, which costs $149 to $249. Early reviews have been positive, and Samsung is hoping that the Z5 will work smoothly with the range of subscription music services that support the Microsoft PlaysForSure digital music standard.

But a significant factor in Apple's success in digital music is the seamless connection between its iTunes Music Store software and the iPod players. The rest of the industry, hampered by the division between hardware, software and online music providers, has not come close to offering consumers a music experience as easy as Apple's.

It is not known whether subscription music services, which permit users to choose among hundreds of thousands of songs but require a continual monthly payment, will win broad consumer approval.

What does set the new Samsung device apart from other digital music players and even from Apple's newest iPod Nano is the fluid quality of its software, which includes transparency effects usually found only in powerful PC's and video game machines. This technology gives a more refined and polished appearance to the Z5 software.

Such design flourish is characteristic of Mr. Mercer's approach, said a number of Silicon Valley software designers who have worked with him both at Apple and elsewhere.

"He is an unusually detail-oriented software engineer," said Steve Capps, a former Apple and Microsoft software engineer, who was one of the designers of the original Macintosh interface and the leader of the Newton project, which created a hand-held computer. "He knows how to architect small pieces of software code."

Alliances between small firms and big electronics makers are becoming increasingly common as companies are forced to bring new devices to market practically every season.

"We're seeing the rise of independent specialists who have a deep understanding of things that big companies don't have the ability to do," said Paul Saffo, a Silicon Valley consultant who is chairman of Samsung's science board, an advisory group.

Mr. Mercer is the epitome of a specialist. Growing up as a personal computer hobbyist in upstate New York during the early 1980's, he became enamored first with the Apple Lisa and then with the Macintosh.

As a computer science student at Syracuse University he wrote programs for the Macintosh, which attracted Apple's attention when it was recruiting young programmers.

"The programs were my résumé," he said.

At Apple, Mr. Mercer quickly became one of two software engineers responsible for the creation for the System 7 version of the Macintosh Finder -- the program that displayed the distinctive desktop visual display that acted as the computer's dashboard.

Then in 1987 and 1988, after Steven Jobs had been ousted from the company by John Sculley, then chief executive, engineers like Mr. Mercer were given wide latitude in exploring new ideas at the company. On his own, Mr. Mercer pursued two projects for hand-held computers, code-named Swatch and Pen Mac.

In the early 1990's, before a meeting of Apple's top executives, he showed off the Macintosh software running on a hand-held computer, long before products like the Newton, Palm Pilot or the General Magic communicator had been introduced.

The technology demonstration was impressive, but Mr. Mercer acknowledged that he was naïve about the reception he would receive for his invention.

Instead of being welcomed with open arms, he received a call from Mr. Sculley noting that Apple had just signed an agreement to work with Sharp Electronics on the Newton technology and that there was no room at the company for competing hand-held computing projects.

Mr. Mercer was asked to join the Newton project, where he worked on the core system software until he left Apple in 1994 and founded Pixo.

Although Pixo grew to more than 100 software developers during the dot-com boom years, it was ultimately sold to Sun because, Mr. Mercer said, it had grown too large to maintain its focus.

"In retrospect you learn that the founder is the guy with the vision, and you have to be very careful not to dilute it," he said.

At Iventor, which he founded in 2000, Mr. Mercer has made no immediate effort to expand the company but instead has concentrated his energies on building a new software platform that can be used in products like the MP3 player.

The Samsung Z5 was done on a tight schedule, and Mr. Mercer said he worked "hacker hours," which were compatible with his Korean partners on the other side of the globe.

Now that the Z5 is about to reach the market, he is thinking about his next technology target. Mr. Mercer said he was still dreaming about a personal device that offered complete access to information and media.
485 2006-02-27 Milan - Twenty years ago few would have questioned whether Gianni Versace or the Dolce & Gabbana boys -- and back then, Domenico Dolce and Stefano Gabbana were boys -- were innovative. These designers considered it their jobs to disturb the Italian peace. If they gathered fans for their type of sartorial mischief, great. But their sense of innovation wasn't separate from their brand identity. It was who they were, and that's what they wanted the world to know.

Nowadays, though, designers are so concerned about their identities that they have practically fetishized branding. They talk about it with a giddy confidence formerly reserved for sex. In some ways, their concern is understandable. There's greater competition than 20 years ago -- more labels, more specialized markets -- and the assumption is that you have to be clear about what you stand for if you want to break through the clutter.

But in this new era it's easy for journalists and retail buyers to feel like extras in the branding experience and to think the real reason our attendance at shows is demanded is to help give a unified front of excitement in the designers' videos. We're like seat holders at the Oscars.

If you happen to catch the video of Dean and Dan Caton's Dsquared show, which featured the same sod and brambles and the same English country house facade displayed in their January men's show, you won't reach any other conclusion. The ubiquitous cropped jeans, fur-trimmed jackets, knits and tweed dresses are as sweetly inane as they seem. The designers' tranquilizing hold on their audience is simply a reflection of how big their brand has become. Otherwise why would you sit there looking at the same old thing?

Italian designers, who closed their fall ready-to-wear season on Saturday, produce clothes in such astonishing quality and variety that you can easily overlook the fact that very little of it is truly innovative. That's why Raf Simons's first women's collection for Jil Sander had a special power, which it drew from the superb tailoring and dressmaking as well as from the designer's ability to go beneath the noisy fashion surface and evoke a coldly erotic stillness. For Stephanie Solomon, a senior buying executive at Bloomingdale's, the Sander show had the effect of killing ruffles and ornament. "The only thing that looks right to me now," she said, "is a coat with one button."
486 2006-02-27 REDONDO BEACH, Calif., Feb. 26 - Floyd Landis, the leader of the Phonak team from Switzerland, won the first Tour of California cycling race Sunday.

Against a backdrop of palm trees and a Pacific Ocean marina, riders finished the eight-day, 600-mile journey and praised the event as a success.

Dave Zabriskie of CSC was second, and his teammate Bobby Julich was third. George Hincapie of the Discovery Channel team was fourth, completing a sweep by American riders.

The victory was the biggest of Landis's career, and he collected $15,000 of the $150,000 prize pool. He finished ninth in the last Tour de France.

Olaf Pollack, a German with the T-Mobile team, won Sunday's stage of 76.5 miles in a mass finish. A crowd estimated at more than 100,000 watched Pollack's second consecutive sprint victory.
487 2006-02-27 What is it about Ms. Wintour that makes her such a hostility magnet that she has to go everywhere with bodyguards? Why choose this person when half the population of Milan wraps up like extras from "Conan the Barbarian" the minute the mercury dips below 50 degrees? It cannot only be the influence she wields or that she is a powerful woman or even an identifiable target.

"You would be surprised at the number of people in the industry who have had Anna Wintour dreams," said Ed Filipowski, one of the principals at KCD, the powerful public relations and production company.

Mr. Filipowski may be onto something. Could it be that, like another sphinx celebrity, Andy Warhol, Ms. Wintour has perfected a public facade so blank that she makes the ideal screen on which to project almost anything. (Did Valerie Solanas honestly think shooting Warhol would advance the agenda of her one-lunatic cause, the Society for Cutting Up Men?) The thought is scary, but Ms. Wintour may just have attained a creepy, Warholian level of fame.

Sitting on a plush sofa amid antique statuary in a sitting room of her 18th-century palace, Donatella Versace reached for a Marlboro and lighted it. "I cleaned up my style," said Ms. Versace, who has given up all her vices but smoking.

When Ms. Versace talks about fashion and business these days, it is hard to think she is not speaking in unconscious metaphors. "There were too many details" in recent collections, she explained. Designs were too hectic. There was too much embellishment. The styling was too extreme. "I felt for a moment lost," she said, and one could be forgiven for thinking that she was also referring to the cocaine addiction for which she successfully sought treatment last year.

There was a time when guests at the dinners Ms. Versace gives after her runway shows took guesses as to when, or whether, their hostess would appear. "Now I feel I changed," Ms. Versace said, several days before mounting a show some said had put her struggling house back on the fashion map.

The quick take on the Versace show given on Friday was that the label had reclaimed its design DNA. In this observer's opinion, it may be time to call in the "CSI" team to dust down the premises: the genetic material on Ms. Versace's runway may belong to another brand.

Personal sobriety is a fine goal. But it would be a pity if Versace abandoned the style that once made it a synonym for the Las Vegas high life (see, please, Elizabeth Berkley in "Showgirls") just as other designers have moved in on the terrain. Both Marc Jacobs and Alexander McQueen, the two earliest adopters in fashion, put on shows last year (Mr. Jacobs for Louis Vuitton) that were unambiguously derived from 1980's Versace. Critics generally slammed the stuff, which seemed out of step with the prevalent taste for clothes that could have come from a Charles Dodgson photograph of Alice Liddell.

One heard a lot of Wonder Woman jibes at the time. But then people got bored with drifty clothes for little ladies, and suddenly the way Gianni Versace once interpreted the flashy opulence of the Reagan era seemed as if it might be cool again. "Gianni was so relevant," Ms. Versace said. "Everything you see now he already did."

That is substantially so. "I feel ready now to use what I learned, maybe with a little bit of softness, new shapes, very clear, but still in the spirit of Gianni," Ms. Versace said. "I feel," she added, taking a long drag on her cigarette, "that I've cleaned up enough."

If a model wants to be cast for a runway show these days, she had better hail from some place that was once a part of the Soviet Union.

There are plenty of positive things to be said for this development. A lot of extended families are being supported by the wages of young women who until people started putting them into Balenciaga had probably never owned a pair of good jeans.

And unlike many American models, who are considered crybabies in the business, young women from the former Eastern bloc are "willing to stand on one foot for 12 hours if you ask them," said Ivan Bart, a senior vice president at the modeling agency IMG.

The problem is that the wall of dull pretty blondes reflect one positive geopolitical development while ignoring a more important one. How it is that fashion is the last business to have missed the globalization seminar is a mystery. From the faces on the catwalks these days one would hardly know that either Africa or Asia exists.

True, the occasional token Japanese or Korean model is offered as a nod to the future of the marketplace. (There were nearly two full rows of Chinese buyers at Gucci.) But that's all.

"It's a little bit boring, this casting," Carine Roitfeld, the editor in chief of French Vogue, said as the week wound down in Milan and the herd prepared to head for Paris. "We need to have a wider variety of beauty, no?"
488 2006-02-27 "Once all the facts were fully examined, it is clear, and now confirmed, that KBR performed this work appropriately per the client's direction and within the contract terms," said Cathy Mann, a company spokeswoman, in a written statement on the decision. The company's charges, she said, "were deemed properly incurred."

The Pentagon's Defense Contract Audit Agency had questioned $263 million in costs for fuel deliveries, pipeline repairs and other tasks that auditors said were potentially inflated or unsupported by documentation. But the Army decided to pay all but $10.1 million of those contested costs, which were mostly for trucking fuel from Kuwait and Turkey.

That means the Army is withholding payment on just 3.8 percent of the charges questioned by the Pentagon audit agency, which is far below the rate at which the agency's recommendation is usually followed or sustained by the military -- the so-called "sustention rate."

Figures provided by the Pentagon audit agency on thousands of military contracts over the past three years show how far the Halliburton decision lies outside the norm.

In 2003, the agency's figures show, the military withheld an average of 66.4 percent of what the auditors had recommended, while in 2004 the figure was 75.2 percent and in 2005 it was 56.4 percent.

Rick Barton, co-director of the postconflict reconstruction project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, said despite the difficulties of doing business in a war zone, the low rate of recovery on such huge and widely disputed charges was hard to understand. "To think that it's near zero is ridiculous when you're talking these kinds of numbers," he said.

The Halliburton contract is referred to as a "cost-plus" agreement, meaning that after the company recovers its costs, it also receives various markups and award fees. Although the markups and fees are difficult to calculate exactly using the Army figures, they appear to be about $100 million.

One of Halliburton's most persistent critics, Representative Henry A. Waxman, a California Democrat who is the ranking minority member of the House Committee on Government Reform, said in a written statement about the Army's decision, "Halliburton gouged the taxpayer, government auditors caught the company red-handed, yet the Pentagon ignored the auditors and paid Halliburton hundreds of millions of dollars and a huge bonus."

About $208 million of the disputed charges was mostly related to the cost of importing fuel, which was at the heart of the controversy surrounding the contract. Kellogg Brown & Root hired a little-known Kuwaiti company, Altanmia, to transport fuel in enormous truck convoys. The Pentagon auditors found that in part because of the transportation fees that Kellogg Brown & Root agreed to pay Altanmia, the cost for a gallon of gasoline was roughly 40 percent higher than what the American military paid when it did the job itself -- under a separate contract it had negotiated with Altanmia.

The Army said in a written statement that it had largely accepted Kellogg Brown & Root's assertions that costs had been driven up by factors beyond its control -- the exigencies of war and the hard-line negotiating stance of the state-owned Kuwait Petroleum Corporation. The Army said the Kuwaiti fuel company blocked attempts by Kellogg Brown & Root to renegotiate its transportation contract with Altanmia. In the end, the Army decided to pay the Halliburton subsidiary all but $3.81 million of the $208 million in fuel-related costs questioned by auditors.

The Kellogg Brown & Root contract, called Restore Iraqi Oil, or RIO, will be paid with about $900 million of American taxpayer money and $1.5 billion of Iraqi oil proceeds and money seized from Saddam Hussein's government. Official criticism of the work became so intense that in November, an auditing board sponsored by the United Nations recommended that the United States repay some or all of the $208 million related to the alleged fuel overcharges -- an allegation Halliburton says has never been justified.

In fact, Ms. Mann said, the Army's decision clearly showed that "any claims that the figures contained in these audit reports are 'overcharges' are uninformed and flat wrong." She said that the fuel charges themselves had been 100 percent reimbursed and that the reductions all came from adjustments on administrative costs associated with that mission.

Still, the Army conceded that some of the criticisms of the company's business practices were legitimate. As a result, the Army said, it would exclude about half of the auditors' questioned charges from the amount used to derive the markups and fees, which are calculated as a sliding percentage of the costs. That decision could cost the company a maximum of about $7 million.

Ms. James, the Corps of Engineers spokeswoman, said that in addition to the other modest penalties that Kellogg Brown & Root had been assessed by the Army's contracting officers, the sliding percentages on some of the fees had been lowered by unspecified amounts to reflect shortcomings in the company's dealings in Iraq. "All fees were awarded in accordance with the award fee plan set out in the contract, which placed more emphasis on timely mission accomplishment than on cost control and paperwork," Ms. James said.

Mr. Barton, of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said that with the relatively small penalties paid by the company for falling short in its performance in Iraq, it was hard to see what the Army's scrutiny of the company's practices had amounted to in the end.

"When they say, 'We questioned their business model or their business decisions' -- well, yeah, so what?" Mr. Barton said. "You questioned it but there was no result."

In answer to written questions, a spokesman for the Defense Contract Audit Agency, Lt. Col. Brian Maka, said the settlement of the disputed charges was based on "broader business case considerations" beyond just Pentagon audits.

But when asked whether the Army's decision reflected on the quality of the audits, Colonel Maka said only that the agency "has no indication of problems with the audit process," and he referred questions on the settlement itself to the Army.

A former senior Defense Department manager knowledgeable about the audits and the related contracting issues said, "That's as close as D.C.A.A. can get to saying, 'We're not happy with it either.' "

Because of the size of the contract and the contention surrounding Halliburton's dealings with the government, the RIO audits were carried out by the agency's top personnel and were subjected to extraordinarily thorough reviews, the former manager said.

This is unlikely to be the last time the Army and Halliburton meet over negotiated costs. On a separate contract in Iraq, for logistics support to the United States military, more than $11 billion had been disbursed to Kellogg Brown & Root by mid-January, according to the Army Field Support Command, based in Rock Island, Ill. Pentagon auditors have begun scrutinizing that contract as well.
489 2006-02-27 Sunday's agreement is likely to forestall, at least for the time being, a confrontation between Congress and the president over legislation, which Mr. Bush threatened to veto, blocking the Dubai contract. But with Republicans worried about their own re-election prospects, relations are clearly strained.

"With the Republicans in Congress, there's a certain breach right now that has to be repaired," Mr. King said in an interview Sunday, adding, "I think it was handled very badly."

The story of how President Bush, who has staked his political fortunes on his reputation for protecting the nation, was blindsided by the port security issue did not begin in Washington. When the news first broke, two weeks ago, the attention of the national news media was largely consumed with other matters, including Vice President Dick Cheney's accidental shooting of a fellow hunter.

But pressures from far beyond the capital forced the spotlight onto the Dubai deal. Fueled by a backlash on conservative talk radio and taunting by liberal blogs and comedy shows, the national outcry seemed almost organic, a bipartisan chorus that grew ever louder over the span of a week, reaching a cacophony that President Bush and members of Congress, besieged by calls from constituents, could not ignore.

"People were crazy about this," said the conservative talk show host Michael Savage, who railed against the Dubai contract on his radio program, broadcast on 370 stations with an estimated 8 million to 10 million listeners. "Even the Bush supporters went nuts."

The uprising is, in one sense, a clash over economics and national security that played on Americans' fears of another terrorist attack. Many shared the sentiments of Cira Alvarez, a 74-year-old Republican in Miami, who said of Mr. Bush, "I have supported him just about everywhere else, but this is just horrible."

But the story has a political element, too, featuring administration missteps, including a bungled Sunday morning television appearance by the homeland security secretary, Michael Chertoff, political calculations by Democrats and a growing restiveness among Republicans, including the Senate majority leader, Bill Frist, who were irked at having been kept in the dark. Some of the Republicans apparently decided that standing alongside an embattled president yet again this year would do them more harm than good.

In one of the tale's more curious twists, Mr. Frist, who is likely to seek the Republican nomination for the presidency in 2008, was in California on a fact-finding mission on port security last Tuesday, as the story reached its crest. After threatening to support legislation that would block the deal, Mr. Frist was photographed in a helicopter flying over the Port of Long Beach: a picture that made the front pages of the next day's papers, speaking volumes about the brewing political storm.

On Sunday, Senator Frist claimed credit for brokering the face-saving arrangement. Now, with lawmakers heading back to Washington after a weeklong recess, the handling of the deal will be picked apart on Capitol Hill. Members of both chambers will receive classified briefings on the port deal. The Senate has three committee hearings scheduled; in the House, the Homeland Security Committee, led by Mr. King, will hold one.

He remains mystified by the president's veto threat. "I don't see why the president wants to fall on his sword for the United Arab Emirates," Mr. King said. "Not in the post-9/11 world."

Unlike some news stories, which break with a bang, the story of the $6.8 billion sale of Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation, the British company that had been managing the ports, to Dubai Ports World, emerged in a trickle. It first began to attract notice on Feb. 13, when the news was dominated by the emerging details about the Cheney hunting accident and the storm that had buried New York City under two feet of snow.

Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York and a longtime critic of the Bush administration on port security, was clued in early; a source in the shipping business tipped him off, he said. Also on Monday, right after the big snowstorm, Mr. Schumer held the first of a series of news conferences. But hardly any reporters showed up.

That same day, Mr. Savage, the talk radio host, spotted a report about the deal on his own Web site. He invited Mr. Foley and another Republican, Representative Vito J. Fossella of New York, as guests.

By midweek, Mr. Foley said, his phones were ringing off the hook with constituent complaints. And he was not the only one. Mr. Hastert, who represents a rural district in Illinois, was flooded with calls as well. On Capitol Hill, Mr. Schumer was continuing to hammer away, and had drawn support from an unlikely ally, Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma.

"This brings up the emotion of us being attacked," said Mr. Coburn, adding that his constituents were deeply concerned. Mr. Bush, he said, "did not handle this right," adding, "part of his leadership job is to assure the country that he's going to do everything to put their best interests ahead of any financial dealings or international trade."

To be certain, not all Americans are so critical. Over the past week, the public has learned that foreign companies have managed American ports for decades. Tim Filla, a 30-year-old ranch hand in Jackson, Wyo., said: "I think it's just election-year sensationalism. I don't think it's a big deal at all."

Yet lawmakers of both parties say that the White House was late in explainingthe deal, and that Secretary Chertoff made things worse last Sunday in defending it on television. On the ABC News program "This Week," Mr. Chertoff said the deal had been vetted through "a rigorous process," but Mr. King, who by that time had been reviewing the decision with administration officials, publicly contradicted the secretary.

The pressure continued to build the following day. The Republican governors of New York and Maryland joined the growing chorus of critics, and senior Republican aides on Capitol Hill said they gave the White House pointed warnings that members were unhappy. Former President Jimmy Carter weighed in to support the deal, but the endorsement only inflamed Republicans.

The next day, Tuesday, Mr. Schumer, joined by Mr. King, held another news conference, the one where Mr. King received the call from Mr. Hastert. By day's end, Mr. King said he had gotten a call from a White House official he would not name. The congressman assumed he would hear that Mr. Bush had backed down, and the Dubai deal was off. Instead, he learned that Mr. Bush had just spoken to reporters on Air Force One and issued a veto threat.

"When I heard that," Mr. King said, "I realized this was just the beginning."
490 2006-02-28 ....
491 2006-02-28 James J. Cramer, the money manager-turned “Mad Money” media star, has received a subpoena as part of the Securities and Exchange Commission’s investigation into allegations of collusion between short-sellers and a stock-research firm. TheStr...
492 2006-02-28 Hedge fund growth is soaring, but is some of that being floated on hot air? A new study by Barclays Capital suggests that hedge fund indexes, because of flaws in they are compiled, may be overstating returns by as much as one to six percentage poi...
493 2006-02-28 With the backing of Michael Dell, SkyBridge Capital has taken a new apporach to hedge fund investing. Instead of investing in a fund or managing a fund, SkyBridge has gotten into the business of providing seed capital to funds, according to The St...
494 2006-02-28 Yet another longtime banker is heeding the siren song of the hedge fund sector. Charles Kirwan-Taylor, the chairman of U.K. corporate broking at Credit Suisse, is leaving the Swiss bank after 15 years to set up a fund focused on European equities,...
495 2006-02-28 As the largest individual shareholder in Disney, would Steve Jobs be interested in having his Apple acquire Disney? Apple may be interested in making a bid for media giant, given Jobs’ experience in leading companies familiar with technology and...
496 2006-02-28 Canadian restaurant chain Tim Hortons, now owned by Wendy’s International Inc., may offer up to 29 million shares for between C$21 and C$23 a share, or about $18 to $20, according to a regulatory filing on Monday. Go to Article from Reuters »...
497 2006-02-28 Putting an end to months of speculation about his future in fashion, the designer Tom Ford announced yesterday that he would open his first store, in New York. The three-story 10,000-square-foot space on Madison Avenue, set to open in November, will showcase his men's wear collection, his first fashion line since leaving Gucci nearly two years ago.

The line, produced in partnership with the Ermenegildo Zegna Group, the Italian men's luxury clothing and accessories brand, will be sold only at the store, at Madison Avenue and 70th Street. Its introduction is the latest phase in the resurrection of Mr. Ford's design career, which throughout his decade-long reign as creative director of Gucci was linked inextricably with luxury and a highly candid sexuality.

Since leaving the company in April 2004, Mr. Ford has maintained his profile, forming an alliance last year with Domenico De Sole, his former partner at Gucci Group, to create the Tom Ford brand. The introduction of the men's line follows the successful debut last year of a limited-run cosmetics and fragrance collection as part of a licensing agreement with Estée Lauder and an eyewear brand licensed by the Marcolin Group, an Italian manufacturer.

This month, Mr. Ford raised eyebrows as the editor of an issue of Vanity Fair celebrating Hollywood. On its cover the designer nuzzled a naked Keira Knightley and Scarlett Johansson, an image that struck some fashion insiders as evidence that his signature steaminess had grown musty and dated.

Mr. Ford's re-entry into the fashion arena may signal a retreat from his sexually charged marketing style. In an interview, he described his new store as "an old-fashioned men's haberdashery and tailor." Accordingly, it will place a significant focus on made-to-measure clothing, a way of reaching a customer, he said, "who doesn't want to look like a banker, but does not want either to look trendy, silly or too much of a fashion victim."

The men's wear debut coincides with the introduction of an independent Tom Ford beauty brand signature fragrance, also produced by Lauder. Each is a facet in a strategy to develop a global luxury business, Mr. De Sole, the brand chairman, said in an interview.
498 2006-02-28 They have now examined those subjects as young adults in face-to-face interviews by trained interviewers who did not know which subjects had been low-birth-weight babies.

Parents responded for participants who were severely impaired and unable to respond themselves. The results were published Feb. 8 in The Journal of the American Medical Association.

The proportion of high school graduates was similar in both groups, although those with extremely low birth weights were less likely to complete the advanced high school course required for university entrance in Canada.

A significantly lower percentage of subjects with low birth weights were enrolled in college or had graduated, though the difference evened out with other forms of postsecondary education.

More subjects with low birth weights were unemployed because of chronic illness or sustained disability.

Among those employed, there were no differences between the groups in part-time or full-time employment, and figures for permanent employment were comparable with Canadian population norms.

Dr. John M. Lorenz, a professor of clinical pediatrics at Columbia University Medical Center who was not involved in the study, said he found the results impressive. "They've followed the great majority of survivors over time into a period of life where you can get some idea about how they are going to function as adults," he said.

The researchers did find significant sex differences, with women doing better in all respects than men.

"Males are more vulnerable," said Dr. Saigal, a professor of pediatrics at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario. "Survival rates are lower. They have a higher proportion of neurological difficulties, and they don't do as well in school. This is consistent with every other study."

The authors acknowledge that it may not be possible to generalize their results to other populations. The low birth weight group was 94 percent white, with 82 percent from two-parent families. Moreover, all the babies received care at hospitals with specialized neonatal intensive care units under Canada's universal health care system.

"I don't want to say that because our children have done well, the results are going to be the same everywhere," Dr. Saigal said. "The results would be comparable with similar socioeconomic conditions and similar resources available."

Dr. Saigal also said the degree of disability varied widely among participants with low birth weights. "I don't want it to appear that all these children do well," she said.

"Looking at new reports of children born in the 1990's," Dr. Saigal said, "the earlier outcome is pessimistic. But most children can, to a large extent, overcome the biological risks. This attests to the resilience of human beings."
499 2006-02-28 Mr. Colwell has admitted manipulating earnings and has been fined $500,000 by the Securities and Exchange Commission. He has an agreement with the Justice Department that requires him to testify to avoid criminal prosecution.

He is the fourth witness who has agreed to testify under a cooperation agreement. Three previous witnesses pleaded guilty to crimes related to Enron.

Mr. Colwell said he first manipulated earnings because the company wanted to beat Wall Street estimates by 2 cents a share. In an e-mail message to David W. Delainey, the wholesale unit's chief executive, Mr. Colwell wrote that Richard A. Causey, the company's chief accounting officer, had spoken to Mr. Skilling "and that was his preference." Mr. Colwell said he was twice asked in July 2000 to come up with $7 million for the second-quarter earnings target.

He said the results were "backward engineered," and that the company's outside accounting firm, Arthur Andersen, was never told that Enron was "managing to an earnings number."

He said he perceived the order to improve earnings for the second quarter as coming from Mr. Skilling. Under cross-examination, however, he said that no one, including Mr. Skilling and Mr. Lay, had specifically directed him to use reserve accounts to increase profits.

Mr. Colwell also said the wholesale unit, which had far exceeded its profit goals, delayed stating its fourth-quarter 2000 results until senior management told it how much profit to report. Mr. Colwell said he refused to continue the practice after the fourth quarter of 2000.

Also on Monday, Ms. Curry, the former Enron internal accountant and a former chief accountant, described a special investigation she led into retail energy contracts that Mr. Causey became concerned about in 2000. Ms. Curry, who has not pleaded guilty to any crime, said she was shocked to discover that hundreds of checks from Enron retail customers, probably worth millions of dollars, had been found under the desk of a trader in the retail unit.

Ms. Curry, who previously held Mr. Colwell's job, said she thought she had been ousted from that position because she was told by J. Clifford Baxter, then an Enron vice chairman, that she "was not capable of making aggressive accounting decisions." She was then reassigned to the project in the retail unit, where her team determined that the 13 largest trading contracts in the unit were overvalued by $250 million.

The retail evaluation was being prepared for Mr. Delainey and another executive, who ultimately presented Ms. Curry's findings to Mr. Skilling, Ms. Curry testified.

As part of her inquiry, Ms. Curry and her team also discovered that the retail unit was owed $511 million by two California utilities on the verge of declaring bankruptcy.

She also testified that she did not see any legitimate reason for the transfer of retail trading operations from the retail unit to the wholesale unit in early 2001 other than to disguise trading losses of more than $500 million in the retail unit.

On cross-examination, Ronald Woods, a lawyer for Mr. Skilling, showed a tape of a previous deposition by Ms. Curry in 2004 where she said efficiency was the reason for the revamping of the units. But a combative Ms. Curry insisted she had been referring to the transfer of wholesale trading functions from retail to the wholesale units, not to the shifting of retail trading functions.

Defense lawyers have said the shift in trading losses was done as part of a revamping to take advantage of superior capabilities for trading in the wholesale unit.

HOUSTON, Feb. 27 (Bloomberg News) -- The retrial of two former executives of Enron's Internet unit can begin while the case against Kenneth L. Lay and Jeffrey K. Skilling continues in an adjacent courtroom, a federal judge ruled Monday.

The former accountant of Enron Broadband Services, Michael Krautz, 37, and the former finance vice president, Kevin Howard, 43, were tried in July on conspiracy and fraud charges. After 12 weeks of testimony and four days of deliberations, jurors in Houston deadlocked, and no verdicts were returned.
500 2006-02-28 Five incumbent Democrats whose districts were carved up were defeated for re-election. The state's 32-member Congressional delegation, which had a 17-to-15 Democratic majority from districts that a court had drawn for the 2002 election, became lopsidedly Republican: 21 Republicans and 11 Democrats.

To the Democrats, the unusual middecade redistricting was "one of the most notorious partisan power grabs in our history," as one of their briefs tells the justices. To the Republicans, it was simply payback for "an egregious Democratic gerrymander from the 1990's," according to the Texas Republican Party's brief.

"This case is fundamentally about democracy," R. Ted Cruz, the state's solicitor general, asserts in his brief defending the redistricting. The Bush administration, which approved the redistricting despite objections by career lawyers in the Justice Department that the new lines violated the Voting Rights Act, will also argue on the state's behalf.

A decision upholding the new district lines, issued last June by a special three-judge Federal District Court in Austin, generated seven appeals, of which the Supreme Court agreed to hear four. While each appeal has a separate name, the eventual ruling will be known by the name of the one that was docketed first, League of United Latin American Citizens v. Perry, No. 05-204.

Two years ago, when the Supreme Court narrowly upheld a Congressional districting plan in Pennsylvania that Democrats had attacked as a partisan gerrymander, the justices could not even agree on whether such a charge was properly the business of the courts. Four said it was not, and four said it was but could not agree on a test. In the middle was Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, who voted to uphold the districts but said he might join the dissenters the next time if he was persuaded that there was a test that judges could apply to distinguish permissible from impermissible partisanship.

To satisfy Justice Kennedy, the Texas Democrats have come up with a test, proposing that "an unnecessary redrawing of district lines designed solely to replace representatives from one party with representatives from another" should be seen as serving "no legitimate governmental purpose" and therefore as unconstitutional.

While this aspect of the Texas case has received the most attention, the case also presents questions of minority voting rights, raised by lawyers for black and Mexican-American voters, that have important implications for applying the 40-year-old Voting Rights Act in an era when multiethnic coalitions, rather than a single group, are increasingly in a position to determine the outcome of elections.

Such a coalition of black and Latino voters in the Dallas-Fort Worth area helped send Martin Frost, an Anglo Democrat, to Congress for 13 terms. The district was dismantled in the 2003 redistricting, and Mr. Frost, running against another incumbent, was defeated.

One question before the justices is whether black voters, accounting for less than one-quarter of the district's voting-age population, can challenge the new lines under Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act, which guarantees minorities the right to "participate in the political process and to elect representatives of their choice" to no less a degree than "other members of the electorate."

The Federal District Court held that lacking a majority electorate, the black voters were not entitled to invoke Section 2. The court declined to give legal significance to the existence of a "coalition" or "crossover" district in which a minority group can leverage its numbers, through active participation in the primary, to exercise effective control over the outcome.

This is a thorny issue in voting rights law, on which the lower courts have disagreed and the Supreme Court has issued conflicting signals. The justices have set aside two hours for argument in the Texas case, twice the usual time, indicating their interest in addressing the Voting Rights Act issues as well as the partisanship question. The Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund will argue that the 2003 plan violated the Voting Rights Act by decreasing from seven to six the number of districts in South Texas in which Latino voters form an effective majority.

The Vermont campaign finance case, Randall v. Sorrell, No. 04-1528, tests the court's current understanding of its watershed ruling 30 years ago in Buckley v. Valeo, which upheld limits on political contributions but determined that campaign spending was a form of political speech that the First Amendment did not permit the government to curtail.

A majority of the current court has expressed disagreement, or at least discomfort, with one or another aspect of that ruling. Justice Kennedy has called it a "halfway house" that does not provide a coherent framework for addressing the role of money in politics.

But a federal appeals court panel in New York, ruling last year in the Vermont case, went further. A 2-to-1 majority said Buckley v. Valeo had not, in fact, completely shut the door on regulating campaign spending. The appeals court found two justifications sufficiently "compelling" to overcome constitutional objections: deterring corruption, and relieving politicians of the distractions of nonstop fund-raising.

Vermont's spending limits, ranging from $300,000 per election cycle for a governor's race down to $2,000 for a seat in the Vermont House, may well be constitutional, the appeals court said while sending the case back to the Federal District Court in Burlington, Vt., for an examination of whether there were other means, less close to the line, to accomplish the same result.

The Supreme Court agreed to hear challenges to that decision, brought by the Vermont Republican Party, the American Civil Liberties Union and others, without waiting for the lower court proceedings to conclude. Also in the case for the justices' review are the state's very low limits on political contributions, $400 per cycle for statewide offices, and tight restrictions on the ability of political parties to spend money on behalf of their candidates.

Many of the participants in the Vermont case are repeat players from the court's last campaign finance case, two years ago. Senator Mitch McConnell, the Kentucky Republican who was one of the main challengers to the federal campaign finance law in the 2003 case, has filed a brief against the Vermont limits, as has organized labor, represented by the A.F.L.-C.I.O., which also opposed the federal law. And, as in the last case, a group of former leaders of the American Civil Liberties Union have filed a brief in support of Vermont, disavowing the organization's official position before the court that the spending limits are unconstitutional.

The divergence of views, and lack of agreed-upon premises, are striking. Does the Vermont law favor incumbents or hurt them? Will it enhance democracy or disable it? Is Buckley v. Valeo still good law?

Only the justices can answer that last question, and the answer, on the eve of the argument, is far from evident.
501 2006-02-28 With predictions from the association that the current shortage of 20,000 drivers will grow nearly fivefold within a decade, trucking companies are offering generous 401(k), stock option and health care packages to new recruits and cash bonuses and prizes to drivers who refer viable candidates.

In hope of stealing drivers from competitors, companies have begun outfitting more of their cabs with satellite radio and television and introducing policies to allow drivers to bring pets and spouses on the road.

Allied Holdings, a trucking company based in Decatur, Ga., employs chaplains to check on the morale of its drivers. Schneider National, based in Green Bay, Wis., holds "driver recognition days" every few months at regional repair shops, featuring Elvis impersonators, free barbecue and raffles for motorcycles and iPods. The trucking association has also begun pressuring large truck stops to add Internet portals.

"Hands down, this is the most serious crisis the industry has faced," said Duff Swain, president of the Trincon Group, a transportation consulting firm in Columbus, Ohio. "Close to 10 percent of major fleets have their trucks sitting up against the fence because they're short on drivers."

Since more than three-quarters of all goods in the United States are shipped by truck, it is only a matter of time, Mr. Swain said, before the shortage causes delays in products hitting the shelves and leads to consumer price increases because of rising transportation costs.

Despite the 7.4 million Americans out of work as of last December, and the recent round of layoffs in manufacturing industries, trucking has struggled to find workers in part because the lifestyle is so grueling.

"I missed my son's birth, first steps and kindergarten graduation," said Nasser Adams, who has been a trucker for eight years. "And I'm better off than most drivers who don't get home every weekend like I do."

Mr. Adams, 47, said that before he began hauling bottled beer for the Abita Brewing Company last year, he drove chemical tanker trucks. "Now that's stressful stuff," he said. "One wrong move and you're in a traffic accident with a bomb at your back."

Since 2000, drivers' wages have started to rebound, though they have not caught up with construction, according to the association. In 2004, the average annual pay for a truck driver was $34,920, compared with $37,890 for a construction worker, according to the Department of Labor.

Union truck drivers make on average about $60,000, and roughly 10 percent of all truck drivers in the country are unionized, an economist with the Teamsters said.

The driver shortfall is expected to worsen in coming years since about 219,000 of the country's 1.3 million long-haul truckers are over 55 and are likely to retire in the next 10 years.

"It's called long-haul trucking for a reason," Mr. Costello said. "Even though a lot of companies are redesigning routes for shorter runs, it's hard to avoid long stretches away from home, and that's a tough way to live."

Victor Rivera described another factor that adds to drivers' stress: time pressure.

"You don't get a hotter load than this," said Mr. Rivera, 34, referring to deadlines that come with perishable cargo like the $150,000 worth of shrimp in his refrigerated 18-wheeler at the TA Trucking stop just off Exit 57 on Interstate 95 in Baltimore. "You're making seven or eight stops for one truckload, and if traffic or whatever backs you up at the beginning of your run, all the rest of the stops have to be rescheduled, and the dispatcher gets really angry."

Trucking companies also complain that they need to hire even more drivers because federal rules passed in January 2004 limit how long their drivers can remain on the road each shift before resting. Under the rules, truckers can drive for 11 hours at a time, but they have to take 10 hours off between shifts, 2 more hours than previously required.

"Trucking is incongruous with what we've come to expect with the blue-collar economy these days," said Donald Broughton, the transportation analyst with A. G. Edwards & Sons, a brokerage firm based in St. Louis. "Productivity improvements mean that other industries are scaling down whereas it still takes one driver per truck to move goods, and there is little way around that. What's more, other industries can outsource, but trucking can't."

To meet the growing need, some carriers are turning to new sources of labor like women, retirees and especially Hispanics.

"The industry realizes that Hispanics are the fastest-growing population in the country, and they're eager to tap into them," said Ms. Cromer, who works for Congreso de Latinos Unidos, a community group in Philadelphia that joined forces in 2004 with the Truckload Carriers Association to begin recruiting more Hispanics into long-haul trucking.

Companies have begun advertising on Spanish radio and in Spanish newspapers, and trucking schools have added intensive English courses to help prepare their non-English-speaking population to pass the federal exam required for a commercial license. Federal transportation laws require that long-haul truckers be able to speak, read and write English and undergo background checks and drug tests.

The number of truck drivers who are not white males increased to 30 percent in 2004, up from 26.6 percent in 2001, according to the Department of Labor. Hispanics now account for 15 percent of all truck drivers, up from 12 percent during the same period, federal records show.

"We decided two years ago to switch trucking companies because we had the leverage," said Claire Rocha, who, with her husband, Daniel, drives for the Celadon Group, a trucking company based in Indianapolis. Ms. Rocha, 51, said that they earned about $100,000 between the them, a 10 percent increase over what they were earning. "There couldn't be a better time to be a team driver," she said.

Chris Burruss, president of the Truckload Carriers Association, said that many truck driving schools were getting calls from trucking companies looking for husband-wife teams or female drivers.

"Women spouses are especially attractive once they have finished raising their kids because they start wanting to spend time with their husbands on the road," Mr. Burruss said. "Women are also seen by a lot of carriers as more dependable and less prone to jump from company to company."

Todd Jadin, senior vice president of operations for Schneider National, said that in hope of bolstering retention, his drivers in January 2004 received the largest raise in the company's 70-year history, about a $4,000 annual increase for drivers who averaged about 100,000 miles per year.

"But more than wages, it's really quality-of-life issues that matter," said Mr. Jadin, citing the stress of traffic and rushed hauls across country, coupled with unpredictable schedules and long periods away from home as the main factors deterring people from entering the profession.

With that in mind, Mr. Jadin said that his company had redesigned some of its routes so that several hundred of its 15,000 drivers could sleep at home at least 17 weeks a year. The company has also tried to increase the 500 or so husband-wife teams it employs because they have lower turnover rates than single drivers, he said.

But the most popular move has been the company's driver appreciation events, Mr. Jadin said, like the one the company held in January in Memphis, featuring an Elvis impersonator and free barbecue.

"That event was a really big hit," Mr. Jadin said. "I guess a little Elvis goes a long way when it comes to boosting morale and keeping drivers on the job."
502 2006-02-28 Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, received a hero's welcome yesterday from 800 immigrants and other New Yorkers as he championed a federal immigration bill on the home turf of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, who could be his opponent if ...
503 2006-02-28 Some people were concerned that a higher gasoline tax would find its way into what they considered the wrong hands -- unless it were directed to a specific use, just as the current 18.4-cent tax is channeled into highway maintenance and construction. Lisa Fisher, a 36-year-old yoga instructor in Chicago who described herself as a Democrat, wants any additional revenue earmarked.

"If the tax is increased and oil companies reap the benefit, I would be against it," Ms. Fisher said. "But if the tax money went to the development of electric cars, I would favor the higher tax. It is important we are not dependent on foreign oil. We are over there fighting because we are dependent."

Twenty-four percent of those polled said they would support a higher federal gasoline tax if the new revenue was used to help fight terrorism, and 28 percent would go along with a gasoline tax increase if, as an offset, their income taxes or payroll taxes were lowered. Betty Forde, 46, an administrator for the New York City Police Department, fell into this category.

"Taxes in general are very high," said Ms. Forde, who earns $50,000 a year and does not own a car or drive.

"This may be a bit selfish on my part," she said, "but I use taxis a lot, and if the gasoline tax goes up, they are going to charge me more. There must be some offset."

Many mainstream economists believe that a shift that raises the gasoline tax while lowering income-based taxes is the most efficient way to reduce consumption. It might require a $1-a-gallon increase in the tax phased in over five years, said Severin Borenstein, director of an energy institute at the University of California, Berkeley.

Because increasing the gas tax is regressive, falling hardest on those who can least afford it, Mr. Borenstein would offset the bite by lowering income taxes in a way that would "make most middle and lower income people better off." But they would end up driving less because of the rising cost of gasoline, some economists believe. By Mr. Borenstein's calculation, a 10 percent increase in the price of gasoline reduces consumption by 6 to 8 percent "over the long run."

A higher tax might have carried some weight with Rosalee Evans of Norfolk, Va., before the price of gasoline broke above $2 a gallon last March and peaked in early September, a week after Hurricane Katrina, at $3.07. The nationwide average for regular-grade gasoline has since fallen, to $2.24 a gallon last week, the Energy Department reports. That includes the federal tax and 21.04 cents, on average, in various state and local taxes.

"At least get the price down to $2 or $2.10 a gallon," said Ms. Evans, who works for a firm that brings entertainers to the Tidewater area and who drives a lot, recruiting talent. "I could live with that price, and then I would consider raising the federal gasoline tax to combat global warming, but a reasonable tax increase, not a big one."

A falling gasoline price, however, would undermine the pressure on people to buy fuel-efficient cars and move closer to their work, reducing their commute.

The problem is that the transition would be painful, even punitive, said Ashok Gupta, an economist at the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental advocacy group. To speed things, he would funnel some of the additional tax revenue to manufacturers "as an incentive to offer more efficient vehicles, like hybrid cars."

Vincent Bussey, who earns $34,000 maintaining computers at a bank in Los Angeles, agreed. Like most of those polled, he opposed a higher gasoline tax unless it were used to develop "new technologies that made the nation somewhat more self-reliant."
504 2006-02-28 The hourly productivity of labor here is a third lower than in China or in neighboring Vietnam, even after training, because workers coming straight from small villages have little experience with machines. And English-speaking office workers who can communicate with vendors and customers are in short supply, and United Nations agencies with large budgets have bid up the salaries of those who are available to as much as eight times what a Laotian teacher earns.

With all these expenses, it costs Mr. Somers around $4 to cut and sew a winter jacket with a synthetic sheepskin lining, for example -- more than American retailers are willing to pay. "They are offering $2.65, and why?" he asked. "That is what they are paying in China."

At the same time, the W.T.O. agreement to dismantle trade barriers is drawing criticism, particularly from groups in the United States fearing low-wage competition. American textile companies and farmers of long-protected crops like tobacco and sugar, which are especially unhappy, are situated in Republican states in the South where they could yet turn the agreement into a political issue.

They are particularly upset that the plan allows each country to preserve tariffs and quotas on just 3 percent of all categories of imports from the poorest countries. The categories are so limited that traditional allies in protectionism will compete over who continues to receive protection and who will lose it and be exposed to global competition.

"You end up with a rather nasty debate," said Augustine D. Tantillo, head of the American Manufacturing Trade Action Coalition in Washington, which represents industries struggling to cope with imports, especially textiles and apparel.

The agreement to eliminate trade barriers on the poorest countries' exports is dependent on the completion of global trade talks in which tough issues remain, notably whether the European Union will agree to reduce its farm subsidies. But the Hong Kong plan goes a long way toward meeting the poor countries' objections, which have been the biggest stumbling block for the last six years, repeatedly bringing talks to a standstill.

Countries like India, China and Brazil are not poor enough to qualify for the special treatment. But textile producers like Bangladesh and Cambodia do, along with tobacco and sugar growers like Zimbabwe and Malawi and cotton producers like Chad and Burkina Faso.

The W.T.O.'s record in helping the poor has been spotty until now. At the start of last year, it erased almost all quotas on textiles and apparel around the globe, a move originally intended in 1993, when it was negotiated, to help very poor countries. But the quota removal has mainly benefited China, a W.T.O. member since 2001. Other developing countries have been forced to try to promote other exports, often commodities, in which they are competitive. The European Union and the United States have reimposed quotas on some shipments from China, but at much higher levels than before.

Only a quarter of the $47 billion in the poor countries' exports to the industrial economies were subject to tariffs in 2003, the most recent year available, because commodities like oil from Angola and copper from Zaire were exempt. The United States alone accounts for half the purchases subject to tariffs from the least developed countries. Those purchases are expected to rise quickly if the trade barriers are lifted.

For poor seamstresses and farmers in large areas of Asia and Africa, the provision to eliminate most tariffs and quotas from the world's least developed countries holds the possibility of higher incomes.

These are people like Nang Pajik, 25, who was sewing collars on green work shirts at Venture's factory on a recent morning. Her six brothers and sisters still live in her home village tending the family's rice plot, but there is little other work there. Here, in the capital of Laos, she has found a husband, a salesman in a nearby store, and sends home part of her pay to her extended family.

"It's better in Vientiane," she said. "I can earn money here."

Indeed, the governments of many poor countries say that the removal of tariffs and quotas should go beyond the Hong Kong agreement.

"It's just the starting point," said Love Mtesa, Zambia's delegate to the W.T.O. and leader of the 49-member caucus of least developed countries. "We do believe that by 2013, we should be able to reach 99.9 percent" of exports free from trade barriers."

Some of the greatest effect from the tariff-free, quota-free deal approved in Hong Kong could come in Laos, which is now negotiating its entry into the W.T.O.

And Venture International should be among the biggest gainers. In addition to coveralls, it makes firefighters' uniforms, work shirts and other garments bought by companies for their employees. It is the only one of Laos's 55 garment factories accredited by Social Accountability International, a New York nonprofit group, as enforcing basic standards for the fair treatment of labor. Image-conscious Western multinationals are increasingly cautious about buying from factories that abuse workers, although some advocacy groups say that even greater vigilance is needed.

Yet the extra costs faced by Venture's managing director, Mr. Somers, while doing business in Laos illustrate how difficult it is for companies in the world's poorest countries to compete with those in China.

He stays in business by sticking to niches like fire-retardant clothing and restaurant waiters' uniforms and by exporting heavily to the European Union, which exempts Laos, as a least developed country, from the 13 percent tax it levies on many garments from China.

Mr. Somers has no such advantage in selling to American retailers and does not try to do so, even when American companies ask him to bid on orders. When the European Union imposed import restrictions on a range of Chinese garments last summer and the United States began preparing to do likewise, many American importers frantically called companies in Laos and other countries to arrange backup supplies.

"I suddenly had 20 to 30 e-mails a day from Wal-Mart and Wal-Mart-affiliated suppliers," Mr. Somers said, adding that he had refused even to quote prices because he knew that he would not be able to compete on price with the Chinese suppliers.

Meeting Social Accountability International's labor standards is not what drives up the cost. Mr. Somers said that his factory, with 800 employees, used careful scheduling to avoid excessive overtime and did not hire the 15- to-17-year-olds legally employed by other Laotian garment factories, though the factory must pay a little more for slightly older workers.

Mr. Somers pays about $50 a month, slightly more than teachers earn in Laos and comparable to what garment workers make in Chinese interior provinces or coastal Vietnam. That competitive edge is negated by the lower productivity of Laotian workers. The removal of tariffs is crucial in persuading buyers to visit a remote country like Laos. Even the exemption from the 13 percent European tariff leaves Venture able to undercut Chinese manufacturers by only 2 or 3 percent, Mr. Somers said, adding, "Few want to fly out of Hong Kong for that."
505 2006-02-28 Sales rose 3.8 percent in December and fell 7 percent in November, according to the data; they are down about 2 percent when averaged over the three months.

By comparison, existing home sales, which make up 85 percent of all transactions, measure contract closings from a much larger sample. They have shown a more consistent pattern of slowing, falling 5.7 percent in December, 1.3 percent in November and 2.7 percent in October. The National Association of Realtors is expected to release January sales data today, and economists expect sales to be flat for the month.

Home builders say they are having to work a bit harder to sell properties, but buyers in many parts of the country remain interested, especially when the deal is sweetened with granite countertops and top-of-the-line kitchen appliances.

Toll Brothers, the nation's biggest luxury home builder, is using incentives like these in some markets on the coasts, as well as special loans that can reduce the introductory rate on an adjustable mortgage by 1 percentage point or more. But the company has not cut its list prices.

"It's being portrayed almost as a collapsing market, and it's not that way at all," said Robert I. Toll, the company's chairman and chief executive. "But there's no doubt it's softer."

He added: "If this is a collapsing market, I'll make a deal with the devil. I'll take it forever. This is not a bad market."

Analysts say the true test for the housing market will come in the spring and summer, when home sales are typically at their highest level for the year. A significant slowdown during those months would hurt not only home builders but the economy as a whole, because it would reduce consumer spending on furniture and other household goods, and it could limit the ability of Americans to tap the value of their homes through refinancings and home equity loans.

"What we have seen so far is a slowdown in transactions, rather than price levels," said Jeffrey L. Knight, chief investment officer at Putnam Investments, the mutual fund company, "and that may well be the extent of what we see: a slowdown from a frenzied pace."

Many economists remain reluctant to draw too many conclusions based on yesterday's report, noting longstanding concerns about the new-homes data, which has a margin of error of plus or minus 11.5 percentage points this month. Last year, the Commerce Department also changed which local housing permitting offices it surveys monthly, making comparisons to data from previous years less reliable for new homes.

Sales fell in most parts of the country, except the West, where they were up 11.3 percent. Sales declined the most in the Northeast, 14.9 percent, followed by the Midwest, 10.8 percent, and the South, 10.3 percent.
506 2006-02-28 "We're using biology to solve problems that chemistry can't," he said.

It is not just bombast. DuPont is working with the Energy Department to turn corn plants -- the husks, the ears, the stems, everything -- into vehicular fuel. DuPont is close to developing plant-based hair dyes and nail polishes that will not adhere to skin, surgical bio-glues that can stanch internal bleeding and a textile fiber made from sugar that will act and feel like cotton.

This spring DuPont will open a factory in Loudon, Tenn., that will make propane diol -- trademarked as Sorona -- from glucose. For now the output is earmarked for carpet fiber, but DuPont is exploring whether it can work in rigid plastics for automobile interiors or de-icing compounds for airplanes.

The company has already converted many labs that once worked on pharmaceuticals or textiles -- two businesses DuPont has shed -- to now search for ingredients to replace oil and gas. Next year, it plans to cluster them all in one building and move a marketing staff in with them.

"Industrial biotechnology is an area in which we can differentiate ourselves, so we're spending a lot more than any other company on it," said Thomas M. Connelly, DuPont's chief science officer.

DuPont's optimism has other chemical industry executives scratching their heads. Dow Chemical pulled out of a joint venture with Cargill to make polylactic acid, a component of food packaging, from corn. Eastman Chemical sold its stake in Genencor International, a leader in industrial biotechnology.

"We really do believe that industrial biotech is critical to our evolution, but the technologies of the foreseeable future just do not give the returns we expect from our research dollar," said Andrew N. Liveris, chief executive of Dow, which is looking for ways to make polyurethane from soybean oil, but has put a higher priority on extracting ingredients from coal.

Friedhelm Balkenhohl, senior vice president for bio-catalysis research at the BASF Corporation, echoes that view. "Raw material change is one of our hot topics, but even 10 years from now, renewables will account for less than 10 percent of our ingredients," he said.

Some companies are shrugging off bio-based ingredients entirely, and concentrating solely on using petroleum ingredients more efficiently. "I'm glad that larger companies are spending their time, talent and money in such exotic areas, because they have left a wide-open field for us that we are fully exploiting," said Jeffrey M. Lipton, chief executive of the Nova Chemicals Corporation, which makes building-block chemicals like styrene and polyethylene.

The skeptics do not faze Mr. Holliday. He points to the thriving business that DuPont -- and even more so, Monsanto -- has built from genetically engineered crops. "Ten years ago it didn't seem logical to go after insect-resistant crops, either," he said. "We're not betting the company on bio-based materials, but we do think they have the potential to have the same impact on us that long-chain polymers once did," he said, referring to the scientific discoveries that led to nylon.

Industrial biotechnology is not a new concept, of course. As far back as the 1970's, companies experimented with turning crops and agricultural waste into fuels. In most cases, the processes were costly and polluting. Even worse, it often took more oil to transport the alternate fuels from farm to factory than was saved by eliminating petrochemicals.

The economics work better today. Prices for oil and gas remain persistently high, and few industry prognosticators predict steep plunges. Moreover, fermentation technologies have improved, as has the ability to isolate and manipulate plant genes. And the growing clamor from environmentalists and environmentally conscious shareholders has given companies an added impetus to invest in "green" technologies like renewable resources.

Still, of the chemical companies, DuPont seems to have the most immediate need for the advantages that industrial biotechnology can provide. In the late 1990's it paid more than $9 billion to buy the seed company Pioneer Hi-bred, a price that many analysts still insist was too high. If DuPont can use more of Pioneer's biotechnology expertise, it can perhaps allay the criticism.

Moreover, DuPont's once-stellar reputation for scientific innovation has flagged of late. Although DuPont portrays itself as a new-product mill -- Mr. Holliday says that a third of last year's revenues came from products that were less than five years old -- analysts say too many of the new products represent incremental improvements. They note, for example, that DuPont's new hybrid corn seeds do yield more corn, but not enough to gain share back from Monsanto.

"In the last three, four years, nothing has stood out as a really breakout product," said William R. Young, an analyst at Credit Suisse who has a neutral rating on DuPont shares. Goldman Sachs has an outperform rating on DuPont stock, yet Edlain Rodriguez, a Goldman analyst, agrees. "DuPont has always prided itself on being a science company, and it has to find a way to regain that leadership," he said.

It is under severe time pressure. Like many chemical companies, DuPont's costs soared when high energy prices were made worse by Hurricanes Rita and Katrina. Teflon, one of DuPont's workhorse products, contains perfluorooctanoic acid, or PFOA, which has been linked to cancer and strokes, and which the Environmental Protection Agency has asked manufacturers to eliminate.

And about 18 percent of DuPont's pretax earnings stem from sales of Cozaar and Hyzaar, two hypertension drugs it developed before it sold its pharmaceutical business to Bristol-Myers in 2002. The patents on the drugs expire in 2010, and so will DuPont's $751 million in annual royalties.

Analysts are divided on DuPont's prospects. According to Thomson Financial, of the 16 analysts that follow the company, 11 rate it a buy while five rate it a hold. Shares of DuPont, which were trading in the $50 range in the first half of 2005, fell 27 cents, to $40.05 yesterday.

Clearly, DuPont hopes that biochemistry will pump the stock up. "If we can make this integrated science game work, it will be ours to lose," said John Pierce, director of biochemical sciences and engineering.

It will still be a hard game to play. Oil and gas remain easier to transport than solids like corn and soybeans, and do not degrade with harsh weather. Plants also vary widely in shape and composition, making it harder to control the quality of distillates made from them.

"The corn crop, the sugar crop, either can be good or bad, and that makes the market inherently volatile," said David N. Weidman, chief executive of the Celanese Corporation, which has temporarily shelved a patented process for getting micro-organisms to excrete acetic acid. "We are not saying that biotechnology will never result in chemicals, but it is a long, arduous and risky road."

Then, again, so is the prospect of relying on foreign oil. Albert H. Segars, professor of technology management at the Kenan-Flagler Business School at the University of North Carolina, notes that against the backdrop of political instability in so many oil-producing regions, DuPont's biotechnology strategy seems almost safe. "If a war breaks out with Iran," he said, "your biology-based fuels will look at lot better than your petro-based ones."
507 2006-02-28 John R. Bolton, the United States ambassador, said that a compromise proposal for a new Human Rights Council for the United Nations released last week was not acceptable and that the United States would vote against it unless negotiations were reo...
508 2006-02-28 "We're using biology to solve problems that chemistry can't," he said.

It is not just bombast. DuPont is working with the Energy Department to turn corn plants -- the husks, the ears, the stems, everything -- into vehicular fuel. DuPont is close to developing plant-based hair dyes and nail polishes that will not adhere to skin, surgical bio-glues that can stanch internal bleeding and a textile fiber made from sugar that will act and feel like cotton.

This spring DuPont will open a factory in Loudon, Tenn., that will make propane diol -- trademarked as Sorona -- from glucose. For now the output is earmarked for carpet fiber, but DuPont is exploring whether it can work in rigid plastics for automobile interiors or de-icing compounds for airplanes.

The company has already converted many labs that once worked on pharmaceuticals or textiles -- two businesses DuPont has shed -- to now search for ingredients to replace oil and gas. Next year, it plans to cluster them all in one building and move a marketing staff in with them.

"Industrial biotechnology is an area in which we can differentiate ourselves, so we're spending a lot more than any other company on it," said Thomas M. Connelly, DuPont's chief science officer.

DuPont's optimism has other chemical industry executives scratching their heads. Dow Chemical pulled out of a joint venture with Cargill to make polylactic acid, a component of food packaging, from corn. Eastman Chemical sold its stake in Genencor International, a leader in industrial biotechnology.

"We really do believe that industrial biotech is critical to our evolution, but the technologies of the foreseeable future just do not give the returns we expect from our research dollar," said Andrew N. Liveris, chief executive of Dow, which is looking for ways to make polyurethane from soybean oil, but has put a higher priority on extracting ingredients from coal.

Friedhelm Balkenhohl, senior vice president for bio-catalysis research at the BASF Corporation, echoes that view. "Raw material change is one of our hot topics, but even 10 years from now, renewables will account for less than 10 percent of our ingredients," he said.

Some companies are shrugging off bio-based ingredients entirely, and concentrating solely on using petroleum ingredients more efficiently. "I'm glad that larger companies are spending their time, talent and money in such exotic areas, because they have left a wide-open field for us that we are fully exploiting," said Jeffrey M. Lipton, chief executive of the Nova Chemicals Corporation, which makes building-block chemicals like styrene and polyethylene.

The skeptics do not faze Mr. Holliday. He points to the thriving business that DuPont -- and even more so, Monsanto -- has built from genetically engineered crops. "Ten years ago it didn't seem logical to go after insect-resistant crops, either," he said. "We're not betting the company on bio-based materials, but we do think they have the potential to have the same impact on us that long-chain polymers once did," he said, referring to the scientific discoveries that led to nylon.

Industrial biotechnology is not a new concept, of course. As far back as the 1970's, companies experimented with turning crops and agricultural waste into fuels. In most cases, the processes were costly and polluting. Even worse, it often took more oil to transport the alternate fuels from farm to factory than was saved by eliminating petrochemicals.

The economics work better today. Prices for oil and gas remain persistently high, and few industry prognosticators predict steep plunges. Moreover, fermentation technologies have improved, as has the ability to isolate and manipulate plant genes. And the growing clamor from environmentalists and environmentally conscious shareholders has given companies an added impetus to invest in "green" technologies like renewable resources.

Still, of the chemical companies, DuPont seems to have the most immediate need for the advantages that industrial biotechnology can provide. In the late 1990's it paid more than $9 billion to buy the seed company Pioneer Hi-bred, a price that many analysts still insist was too high. If DuPont can use more of Pioneer's biotechnology expertise, it can perhaps allay the criticism.

Moreover, DuPont's once-stellar reputation for scientific innovation has flagged of late. Although DuPont portrays itself as a new-product mill -- Mr. Holliday says that a third of last year's revenues came from products that were less than five years old -- analysts say too many of the new products represent incremental improvements. They note, for example, that DuPont's new hybrid corn seeds do yield more corn, but not enough to gain share back from Monsanto.

"In the last three, four years, nothing has stood out as a really breakout product," said William R. Young, an analyst at Credit Suisse who has a neutral rating on DuPont shares. Goldman Sachs has an outperform rating on DuPont stock, yet Edlain Rodriguez, a Goldman analyst, agrees. "DuPont has always prided itself on being a science company, and it has to find a way to regain that leadership," he said.

It is under severe time pressure. Like many chemical companies, DuPont's costs soared when high energy prices were made worse by Hurricanes Rita and Katrina. Teflon, one of DuPont's workhorse products, contains perfluorooctanoic acid, or PFOA, which has been linked to cancer and strokes, and which the Environmental Protection Agency has asked manufacturers to eliminate.

And about 18 percent of DuPont's pretax earnings stem from sales of Cozaar and Hyzaar, two hypertension drugs it developed before it sold its pharmaceutical business to Bristol-Myers in 2002. The patents on the drugs expire in 2010, and so will DuPont's $751 million in annual royalties.

Analysts are divided on DuPont's prospects. According to Thomson Financial, of the 16 analysts that follow the company, 11 rate it a buy while five rate it a hold. Shares of DuPont, which were trading in the $50 range in the first half of 2005, fell 27 cents, to $40.05 yesterday.

Clearly, DuPont hopes that biochemistry will pump the stock up. "If we can make this integrated science game work, it will be ours to lose," said John Pierce, director of biochemical sciences and engineering.

It will still be a hard game to play. Oil and gas remain easier to transport than solids like corn and soybeans, and do not degrade with harsh weather. Plants also vary widely in shape and composition, making it harder to control the quality of distillates made from them.

"The corn crop, the sugar crop, either can be good or bad, and that makes the market inherently volatile," said David N. Weidman, chief executive of the Celanese Corporation, which has temporarily shelved a patented process for getting micro-organisms to excrete acetic acid. "We are not saying that biotechnology will never result in chemicals, but it is a long, arduous and risky road."

Then, again, so is the prospect of relying on foreign oil. Albert H. Segars, professor of technology management at the Kenan-Flagler Business School at the University of North Carolina, notes that against the backdrop of political instability in so many oil-producing regions, DuPont's biotechnology strategy seems almost safe. "If a war breaks out with Iran," he said, "your biology-based fuels will look at lot better than your petro-based ones."
509 2006-02-28 "The sensitive issues that such a subpoena raises are of sufficient importance that they should, and will be, considered and decided by the commission before this matter proceeds further."

The statement was an unusual twist in an inquiry that was begun last year by the commission's San Francisco office. The office is investigating accusations of a conspiracy by a research company and several hedge funds and traders to manipulate stock prices.

One company whose shares have plummeted is Overstock.com, an Internet retailer of discounted items. It claims in a lawsuit filed last year that a research firm, Gradient Analytics, and stock traders and hedge funds had worked together to put out false information about its stock just after the traders executed heavy bets that the stock would decline.

Staff lawyers have broad discretion to issue subpoenas, although particularly sensitive ones are first sent to top officials for review.

Commission officials said last week that the head of the enforcement division, Linda C. Thomsen, had known about the subpoena before it was issued on Feb. 8 and that she had not objected.

Ms. Thomsen, who has been at the agency for 10 years, was promoted to lead the enforcement division last May by the agency's chairman at the time, William H. Donaldson, shortly before he resigned.

Last Friday, the commission's top spokesman, John Nester, said that the agency subpoenaed journalists "only when it is absolutely necessary and after careful thought and consideration."

After issuing that statement, the commission told Dow Jones early Friday evening that it would not seek to enforce the subpoena, at least for the time being.

Mr. Cox's statement on Monday was seen by both government officials and longtime securities law practitioners as a strong slap at the enforcement division, which has come under increasing pressure in recent months from some commissioners.

Last month, the enforcement division struggled to reach an agreement on a statement of principles for seeking fines against corporations. Officials said that two Republican members of the commission, Paul S. Atkins and Cynthia A. Glassman, had dissented in enforcement cases involving large corporate fines, arguing that the penalties were hurting shareholders and were therefore not appropriate.

Mr. Atkins has been openly critical of the enforcement division, saying that in certain cases it has sought penalties that would unfairly injure investors.

The agreement reached last month sought to resolve those differences, but some experts say it only postpones further disagreements that are likely to arise about how the agency penalizes companies accused of securities law violations.

In a speech two weeks ago before the Institute for Legal Reform, part of the United States Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Atkins said that under the agreement, "there will need to be a case-by-case showing by the enforcement staff that the penalty is not inappropriately harming shareholders."

WASHINGTON, Feb. 27 (AP) -- Regulators have approved the merger of the New York Stock Exchange with an electronic rival, Archipelago Holdings Inc., a market-shaping deal that will transform the 213-year-old Big Board into a for-profit company.

The Securities and Exchange Commission announced its approval on Monday of the $9 billion transaction, which will give the exchange new, high-tech trading capabilities and an estimated 49 percent of the market in stock trading.

It was the final hurdle for the deal, which has won approval from the Justice Department, board seat owners and Archipelago shareholders.
510 2006-02-28 BAREISS--Molly. The staff and Committee of Prints and Illustrated Books at The Museum of Modern Art extend heartfelt condolences to Walter Bareiss, long-standing Committee member and valued friend of the Museum, for the loss of his wonderful wife,...
511 2006-02-28 "The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail" (published in the United States as "Holy Blood, Holy Grail") posits that Christ survived the crucifixion and went on to marry Mary Magdalene, that the couple's descendants are still flourishing today, that factions within the Catholic Church are eager to suppress this information, and that the Holy Grail is far more mysterious and far more complicated than anyone ever imagined.

The three authors spent five years, from 1976 to 1981, researching the book, they say, before arriving at what they call the "central architecture" of their argument. It is this architecture -- the trajectory of the case they make in "The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail" -- that they say Mr. Brown appropriated, rather than individual words or passages.

"It is not as though Brown has simply lifted a discrete series of raw facts from 'The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail,' " the plaintiffs argue in court papers. "He has lifted the connections that join the points up." They continue: "There is no other credible explanation as to how the architecture from "The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail" could be in "The Da Vinci Code."

In addition, the plaintiffs say, their book is not "a historical account of facts and it does not purport to be such," but is, rather, "a book of historical conjecture setting out the authors' hypotheses" -- and thus protected by copyright.

Mr. Brown does not deny that he consulted "The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail" before publishing "The Da Vinci Code." In fact, one of his characters -- Sir Leigh Teabing, a partial anagram of the authors' surnames -- actually has the book on his bookshelf. In one passage in "The Da Vinci Code" Mr. Brown summarizes the Jesus-Mary Magdalene theory, saying that "The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail" is the most important book in the area.

But Random House's lawyers argue that "The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail" is just one of many sources Mr. Brown consulted, and that it was relatively unimportant to his research. Furthermore, they say, many of the basic ideas put forward in "The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail" were not original, anyway, but had been around for years in other sources.

In addition, they say, "The Da Vinci Code" is full of ideas that do not appear in "The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail," including conjectures about Leonardo's part in the heretical conspiracy; the pagan worship of female gods, and the writing of the Bible.

The trial is expected to last as long as three weeks.
512 2006-02-28 His predecessors knew about them, too, but they didn't want to do anything about them, either. At a drug trial in Pittsburgh in 1985, Dale Berra and Dave Parker testified that Willie Stargell and Bill Madlock dispensed greenies to their Pirates teammates. John Milner told the jury that Willie Mays had a bottle of red juice, or liquid amphetamines, in his locker when they played for the Mets.

Peter Ueberroth, then the commissioner, opted not to believe their testimony. But the pills were readily available in all clubhouses, often dispensed by team trainers and other medical personnel.

"They were obtainable with a prescription," Schmidt writes, "but be under no illusion that the name on the bottle always coincided with the name of the player taking them before game time."

The pills energized players, helped get them through a tough series of games, a 162-game schedule played in 182 days. The only thing a player had to do was make sure he didn't take a pill prematurely. Players like to tell of teammates who took pills before games, then had the games rained out and spent the rest of the night climbing walls.

Schmidt doesn't acknowledge in the book that he used greenies, but in a telephone interview Sunday, he said, "A couple times in my career I bit on it."

He added: "There were a few times in my career when I felt I needed help to get in there. I'm a victim; I admit to it. I'm not incriminating myself or players I played with to say we were on amphetamines our entire careers. I just wanted to see what they would do. It was a lack of willpower. You had an impressionable young kid, and someone says, 'Man you want to feel good?' If I had to do it over, I probably wouldn't do it. You can't put a 56-year-old head on a 28-year-old kid."

But if steroids testing drove power production down, how will testing for greenies affect players and, by extension, the game?

Will it sap speed out of players' swings? In some games, will they have to stop at second base on a double instead of bursting around the base and trying for third? Will they come up short on a diving attempt for a line drive in the gap? Will a whole bunch of players play lethargically?

In the book -- in which Schmidt also discusses Barry Bonds, the legacies of Mark McGwire and Sammy Sosa, and Pete Rose -- Schmidt writes that the elimination of amphetamines could have "possibly far greater implications for the game than the crackdown against steroids."

He explains in the book that "amphetamine use in baseball is both far more common and has been going on a lot longer than steroid abuse."

In the interview, Schmidt, a former third baseman for the Phillies who hit 548 home runs, said he didn't have firsthand knowledge of the extent of amphetamine use today.

"I don't have any sense of what's going to happen," he said. "Will there be more days off? Will there be more lethargic games? But my guess would be that there will be nothing we'll be able to visibly see. We're not going to see a big drop in performance. I don't think we'll see any marked difference in the game."

What if baseball had acted to rid the game of amphetamines in his playing days?

"I think you would have learned to face that game," Schmidt said, "where you probably didn't have the energy to go on the field in St. Louis when it was 115 degrees and the game went into extra innings the night before and you had played every day for a couple weeks. You might have had a couple cups of coffee. You'd adapt."
513 2006-02-28 As I talked about my book, people asked, "What's the next technology that will have this?" I became convinced it was reproductive medicine, which started only 30 years ago with the I.V.F.-facilitated birth of Louise Brown.

Reproductive technologies allow some people who previously couldn't have babies to do that. In almost every human society, perhaps 15 percent of the population is infertile, so there's always been a big demand for babies. Right now, the estimated average cost of producing a baby through these new treatments in the U.S. can be well over $50,000.

As I looked into it, I became convinced that reproductive technology was a market -- with supply, demand and price coming together in a transaction. As with the early Internet, where people were high on the lack of rules and eventually wanted protection against scammers and online pedophiles, I think we'll eventually want rules protecting the health of the women and babies.

Q. Isn't it a little cold to talk of infertility in economic terms?

A. But the baby business is a business. My argument is, We need to move away from the emotion that clouds this so that we can make better decisions.

I think many in this market don't want to see it as related to science or medicine, which also clouds their thinking. If you look at the promotional materials of fertility clinics, it's all about "family building" and "creating a child." It doesn't have a scientific feel to it. It's treated more as an intimate experience.

Q. At Columbia University, there are ads in the student newspaper offering to pay tall blondes with high SAT's $8,000 to $20,000 for eggs to be used by infertile couples. Is this a good price?

A. Hmm. I think the price for Harvard eggs is higher, around $25,000. There have been ads offering even $50,000 and $100,000 for "exceptional eggs" though no one's ever come forward to say they've gotten that much.

The donor typically is young -- 20 to 21 years old. She's run up the credit card bills, and she doesn't want Mom and Dad to know. She sees these very pretty ads in the school newspaper and this seems like a good way to solve a problem. The concern is that we don't know the long-term effects of doing this.

For egg extractions in general, there have been a couple of instances of horrific side effects. There are lots of cases of smaller ones. When you take large doses of hormones to produce eggs -- either as a donor or an infertile woman -- you're going to have bloating, mood swings, discomfort. All this is manageable. But if you do that three or four times, are there longer-term effects we don't yet know about?

Q. Do you worry about eugenic implications of Ivy League egg-shopping?

A. Yes. People sometimes do act as if they were picking from a salad bar. And yet, we know that most of the things people want in their children cannot be identified on a single gene. Intelligence? It's a combination of genes and environment.

I am about to do a statistical study of sperm banks. What we know anecdotally is that for egg donors, it's more often looks that are the desired traits. From men, people seek intelligence and height. You cannot even think about donating sperm if you're a short man. The average height of a sperm donor is 5-10. The average height of an American male is nowhere near that.

Q. Why are fertility treatments so costly? Doesn't the price of a new technology come down after a while?

A. I think it's because the supply is still smaller than the demand. Infertile people are willing to pay almost anything. I would also argue that prices haven't come down as much as they should because this isn't treated like regular medicine.

There's limited insurance coverage -- only 14 states include I.V.F. under some circumstances as part of medical insurance. In the other 36, the only way to get these treatments is to pay cash.

The nationwide average for one cycle of I.V.F. is $12,400. If you are a 24-year-old woman with blocked fallopian tubes, one cycle will probably do it. If you are 48, you might get five or six cycles. At that age, the odds of success are something like 1 percent. Those women will go for three, four, five cycles, till the treatments work or the women give up. Some of these women will eventually look to adoption.

Q. Should fertility treatments be covered by insurance?

A. They do that in Denmark. But they've also considered some of the social issues that insurance brings up. The Danes say infertility is a medical condition for any woman under 40. Over that age, no coverage.

If we insured consistently, we'd have to ask, At what point is a woman is too old to have a child? We'd have to ask if we want to cover homosexual couples who are technically infertile if they want to have babies with their partners. Now, no one wants to grapple with any of that.

Q. What was the most unexpected thing you learned working on your book?

A. Everyone I spoke to who had gone through these difficult processes -- high-tech reproduction, surrogacy, international adoption, donated eggs or sperm -- came out with a child that they were convinced was the only child that they were ever destined to have.

No matter how they acquired that child and regardless of whether they had a genetic relationship to it, they saw it as theirs.

To me, it shows that there's something in humans that connects us to our children and it goes even deeper than genetics alone.
514 2006-02-28 Coast Guard Raised Security Concerns Over Dubai Company's Ports Management  Coast Guard intelligence officials in December raised the prospect of significant security risks associated with the management of some United States port terminal operati...