1 2011-10-01 In a move intended to show that he was tough on immigration, Gov. Rick Perry said that with approval of the Mexican government, he would consider sending troops into Mexico to help defeat drug cartels and improve border security....
2 2011-10-01 In a move intended to show that he was tough on immigration, Gov. Rick Perry said that with approval of the Mexican government, he would consider sending troops into Mexico to help defeat drug cartels and improve border security....
3 2011-10-01 Sidney Crosby, who is recovering from a concussion sustained last January, said he would not play in the Pittsburgh Penguins' regular-season opener in Vancouver on Oct. 6....
4 2011-10-01 Sidney Crosby, who is recovering from a concussion sustained last January, said he would not play in the Pittsburgh Penguins' regular-season opener in Vancouver on Oct. 6....
5 2011-10-01 Officials searched for solutions to the European debt crisis, the United States government considered selling off assets and natural gas was flared off in North Dakota while more valuable oil was being extracted....
6 2011-10-01 Zach Hillesland and Greg Bishop will be reporting on all of the day's action in college football. Check back throughout the day for updates and analysis, to ask questions or to give us your observations, whether from your couch or from the bleache...
7 2011-10-01 We’ll be reporting on all of the day’s action in college football. Check back throughout the day for updates and analysis, whether from your couch or from the bleachers....
8 2011-10-01 Q. and A. with David Downs, the commissioner of the North American Soccer League....
9 2011-10-01 Q. and A. with David Downs, the commissioner of the North American Soccer League....
10 2011-10-01 Boston Dynamics, a robotics company, showed off its latest battlefield robot, called AlphaDog. It's scary....
11 2011-10-01 Boston Dynamics, a robotics company, showed off its latest battlefield robot, called AlphaDog. It's scary....
12 2011-10-01 How small-business issues are shaping politics and policy.
13 2011-10-01 How small-business issues are shaping politics and policy.
14 2011-10-01 At least 150 people have died in Cambodia and southern Vietnam in the worst flooding along the Mekong River in 11 years, after heavy rain swamped homes and forced thousands of people to evacuate. Most of the deaths have been in Cambodia, where 141 people have died since Aug. 13.
15 2011-10-01 But the questions were still echoing among a ridership that has spent too many nights stranded in the bowels of Pennsylvania Station, too many mornings and evenings waiting for delayed or canceled trains. How could a state-of-the-art system be felled so swiftly? How could a run-of-the-mill thunderstorm take down one of the nation’s largest commuter railroads?

“There’s this letdown; it’s like, ‘Not again!’ ” said Maureen Michaels, former chairwoman and a member of the Long Island Rail Road Commuter Council, a riders’ group.

The upgraded signal system, Ms. Michaels said, was “sold to us as solving a lot of our problems.”

“And yet the same vulnerabilities are still there,” she said.

In an interview, Ms. Williams, the railroad’s president, described a palpable frustration felt by her and senior members of her staff. The software they paid millions for, she said, simply did not work as it was supposed to.

“I have great concerns over the fact that we’ve made this tremendous investment in microprocessors and a software program that then failed,” she said. “I certainly understand our customer frustration over this matter, and I’m very sympathetic to the experience they’ve been going through on the railroad.”

The new system, Ms. Williams said, had been designed to protect against lightning strikes and power surges; it was still not clear what had caused those protections to fail.

A team has been called in from the system’s manufacturer, Ansaldo, to assist with the railroad’s review of the episode, and an independent consultant will also be retained. Ms. Williams said she spoke on Friday morning with the president of Ansaldo. “He understands my grave concerns,” she said.

The company, which is based in Pittsburgh, did not respond to a request for comment.

The signal system failed at the start of the Thursday evening rush, making it nearly impossible to safely run trains between Jamaica Station, Atlantic Terminal in Brooklyn and Penn Station in Manhattan. Service from Penn Station was halted, and some trains were stopped between stations, leaving passengers stranded for hours.

Railroad workers scrambled to revive the signals, only to be stymied by a software program, supplied by Ansaldo, that gave false readings on whether the equipment was functioning.

Some trains began running at slow speeds at 6:30 p.m., but the railroad’s entire network was shut down around 10 p.m., when the signals failed again. At one point, the police cordoned off Penn Station to prevent overcrowding.

Ms. Williams was asked on Friday what she would tell passengers who had begun to lose confidence in the railroad. She said that under the difficult circumstances, she had little choice but to suspend service.

“There were no serious injuries last night,” she said. “I recognize that customers were stranded on trains. I absolutely recognize it, and I know how frustrating that is. But the customers were safe; no trains were derailed; no one was injured. Those are the most important attributes of public transit.”
16 2011-10-01 LONDON — A reporter who is among the 16 people arrested and then freed on bail in the phone hacking case that has shaken Rupert Murdoch’s media empire in Britain warned his former bosses on Friday that he planned to break his silence on the scandal in a civil court case. He said that he would reveal those who were responsible for the phone hacking.

The reporter, Neville Thurlbeck, 49, who was the chief reporter for the now-defunct tabloid The News of the World, gave the warning in a statement issued through his lawyers in connection with his wrongful-dismissal lawsuit against News International, the British newspaper arm of Mr. Murdoch’s News Corporation. Mr. Thurlbeck was one of the first people arrested by Scotland Yard in a renewed investigation of the phone hacking this year, but he has denied publicly having played any part in the illegal interception of cellphone voicemails.

Mr. Thurlbeck remained on the News International payroll into September, when he was fired. He has accused the company of having unfairly dismissed him for being a whistleblower. In his statement on Friday, he suggested that both sides “retain a dignified silence until we meet face to face in a public tribunal,” a hearing on his suit.

“There is so much I could have said publicly to the detriment of News International but so far have chosen not to,” he said. “At the length, truth will out.”

With his statement, Mr. Thurlbeck appeared to have joined other current or former News International employees who have shown a readiness to contradict one another in public about newsroom wrongdoing at The News of the World — in particular, who authorized the phone hacking, who at the newspaper and at News International knew about it, and when.

The discrepancies apparently in accounts given this summer by Murdoch executives to a parliamentary committee investigating the scandal will be explored further in additional hearings called by the committee this fall.
17 2011-10-01 With Germany’s weight behind the fund, known as the European Financial Stability Facility, political commentators say it is only a matter of time before Slovakia bows under the pressure and approves its own version of the bill.

The need to ratify the July agreement to expand the facility is all the more important in light of the fact that markets have already indicated that even a 440 billion euro fund, or roughly $600 billion, was nowhere close to enough money to fend off speculative attacks against heavily indebted countries, especially if larger countries like Spain and Italy are forced to turn to it for assistance.

Even as national parliaments have moved ahead with ratifying the agreement, Greece’s prime minister, George A. Papandreou, has pressed his case that his country will live up to its commitments to its European partners. Mr. Papandreou visited France’s president, Nicolas Sarkozy, in Paris on Friday.

Greece’s ability to stick to the difficult program of budget austerity has been viewed as crucial if it is to continue receiving aid. Mr. Papandreou also visited Berlin to meet with Mrs. Merkel Tuesday night.

But the euro crisis will never be resolved if debtor countries cannot take credible steps to reduce their national debts, said Norbert Irsch, chief economist at KfW Group in Frankfurt.

But he dismissed calls for Greece to leave the euro. Such a suggestion, he said, “does not sufficiently take into account the fact that the country would be plunged into an even more serious and long-lasting crisis.”

As the debate in Austria indicated, feelings run high on the subject of bailing out neighbors. Members of the far-right Alliance for Austria’s Future unfurled a banner on the floor of the chamber demanding a referendum.

Peter Filzmaier, a professor of political science at the Danube University Krems, said that the far-right parties saw the rescue fund more as an opportunity to score political points than a chance to alter the outcome.

“It was a very emotional debate,” Mr. Filzmaier said. “Austria has an extremely large number of people disinterested in the E.U., and when you’re talking about large sums of money and you don’t understand what is going on you get scared.”

The German news media declared Thursday’s vote a victory for Mrs. Merkel, while asking how far she could push her intransigent coalition for further steps to rescue the currency. Germany’s upper house, the Bundesrat, where delegations from the country’s states must approve legislation, signed off on Thursday’s vote in the Bundestag. But Bavaria’s state premier, Horst Seehofer, said Friday that his state would not support “additional increases or greater risks.”

Mrs. Merkel has faced criticism of her leadership almost from the beginning of the crisis, from the right and the left, domestically and from foreign leaders, including President Obama. She has been attacked in particular for being slow and reactive in dealing with market turmoil and with speculative attacks on fellow members of the euro zone.

The muddling-through approach is criticized by academics, who find that it “does not fit into the worlds of models and textbooks,” said Mr. Irsch, but the German government and the European Central Bank “have acted in a pragmatic way and, in my opinion, also in a fitting manner.”
18 2011-10-01 The legal fusillades have continued in the battle over AT&T's proposed $39 billion acquisition of T-Mobile USA, as the telecommunications giant sought on Friday to take shots at competitors seeking to stop the takeover.     AT&T moved to dismiss a...
19 2011-10-02 It was telling that Wisconsin fans refrained from storming the field after the Badgers took apart the Huskers on Saturday night....
20 2011-10-02 It was telling that Wisconsin fans refrained from storming the field after the Badgers took apart the Huskers on Saturday night....
21 2011-10-02 Even before Larry Ellison speaks, Oracle OpenWorld is over the top....
22 2011-10-02 Even before Larry Ellison speaks, Oracle OpenWorld is over the top....
23 2011-10-02 TEL AVIV (Reuters) - Chipmaker Intel Corp has agreed to acquire mobile navigation software maker Telmap, the chief executive of the Israel-based company said on Sunday.

Details of the deal were not disclosed but Israeli media said Intel is paying about $300 million to $350 million.

Telmap CEO Oren Nissim declined to comment on the price and said the deal was expected to close before the end of the year.

Telmap will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Intel, which has two plants and four development centers in Israel, and will retain its brand, management and 210 employees.

“The unique thing about this transaction is that here comes a giant and says ‘We really like what you’re doing, we believe in your strategy, we want to enhance and go forward. We’re not here to swallow you up,'” Nissim told Reuters.

Teaming up with Intel will enable Telmap to provide a “true alternative” to offerings from giants such as Nokia and Google, Nissim said.

“I think to a large extent that from a strategic perspective came the only company that could have come,” he said of Intel.

Intel expects Telmap to become much bigger and reach places it hasn’t before, whether it be in Europe, Asia-Pacific or the United States, Nissim said, adding Telmap will stay in Israel but expects to recruit workers abroad.

Peter Riddle, general manager of Intel’s AppUp developer program, in a blog posted at AppUp’s annual gathering of developers in Seattle, said the deal was a step toward expanding Intel’s mobile software services capabilities.

“Telmap delivers great multi-platform consumer experiences every day, and we’re looking forward to combining that focus and excellence with Intel’s to significantly grow their business,” he wrote.

“But Telmap isn’t just a great consumer service provider -- with Telmap we can directly provide developers with location-based services spanning devices, operating systems and CPU architectures.”

Telmap, which offers location-based services to provide details on traffic data, speed cameras and local offerings, expects to post revenue of $33 million in 2011 and be profitable for the second consecutive year.

Intel, the world’s No. 1 chipmaker, has become a larger provider of software and services following its acquisitions of McAfee and Wind River.

“In mobility Intel fully understands that consumers are after where value is being created for them, which is at software, services, content,” Nissim said.

“Many things in mobility are happening around a person’s whereabouts. A lot of application developments are being done and Intel wants to be close to that pillar,” he said.

In addition to its core business, Telmap will open up its platform to third-party developers who will be able to enhance their applications with location-based services, Nissim said.
24 2011-10-02 TEL AVIV (Reuters) - Chipmaker Intel Corp has agreed to acquire mobile navigation software maker Telmap, the chief executive of the Israel-based company said on Sunday.

Details of the deal were not disclosed but Israeli media said Intel is paying about $300 million to $350 million.

Telmap CEO Oren Nissim declined to comment on the price and said the deal was expected to close before the end of the year.

Telmap will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Intel, which has two plants and four development centers in Israel, and will retain its brand, management and 210 employees.

“The unique thing about this transaction is that here comes a giant and says ‘We really like what you’re doing, we believe in your strategy, we want to enhance and go forward. We’re not here to swallow you up,'” Nissim told Reuters.

Teaming up with Intel will enable Telmap to provide a “true alternative” to offerings from giants such as Nokia and Google, Nissim said.

“I think to a large extent that from a strategic perspective came the only company that could have come,” he said of Intel.

Intel expects Telmap to become much bigger and reach places it hasn’t before, whether it be in Europe, Asia-Pacific or the United States, Nissim said, adding Telmap will stay in Israel but expects to recruit workers abroad.

Peter Riddle, general manager of Intel’s AppUp developer program, in a blog posted at AppUp’s annual gathering of developers in Seattle, said the deal was a step toward expanding Intel’s mobile software services capabilities.

“Telmap delivers great multi-platform consumer experiences every day, and we’re looking forward to combining that focus and excellence with Intel’s to significantly grow their business,” he wrote.

“But Telmap isn’t just a great consumer service provider -- with Telmap we can directly provide developers with location-based services spanning devices, operating systems and CPU architectures.”

Telmap, which offers location-based services to provide details on traffic data, speed cameras and local offerings, expects to post revenue of $33 million in 2011 and be profitable for the second consecutive year.

Intel, the world’s No. 1 chipmaker, has become a larger provider of software and services following its acquisitions of McAfee and Wind River.

“In mobility Intel fully understands that consumers are after where value is being created for them, which is at software, services, content,” Nissim said.

“Many things in mobility are happening around a person’s whereabouts. A lot of application developments are being done and Intel wants to be close to that pillar,” he said.

In addition to its core business, Telmap will open up its platform to third-party developers who will be able to enhance their applications with location-based services, Nissim said.
25 2011-10-02 In Crossing the Border, the Risks Are More Grave
26 2011-10-02 Follow along for live analysis of Game 2 of the A.L.D.S. between the Yankees and Tigers....
27 2011-10-02 Follow along for live analysis of Game 2 of the A.L.D.S. between the Yankees and Tigers....
28 2011-10-02 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
29 2011-10-02 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
30 2011-10-02 Marissa Connie Hopkins and James Vincent Secreto were married Thursday in Washington. The Rev. James J. Greenfield, a Roman Catholic priest, officiated at St. Martin of Tours Catholic Church. On Saturday evening, Father Greenfield led another ceremony at Glen Echo Park in Glen Echo, Md.

The bride, 31, is the special assistant to the White House press secretary, Jay Carney, and served in the same role under Mr. Carney’s predecessor, Robert Gibbs. She graduated cum laude from Boston University.

The bride is a daughter of Virginia L. Hopkins of San Diego and Clinton E. Hopkins of Casper, Wyo.

The bridegroom, also 31, graduated with distinction from the University of Michigan. In May, he received a law degree cum laude from Georgetown and a Master of Public Policy from Harvard. Until 2007, he was a project coordinator at Greenberg Quinlan Rosner, a political pollster and consultancy, in Washington. He helped provide advice for international political campaigns.

The bridegroom is the son of Marilyn Secreto of Troy, Mich., and James Secreto of Clarkston, Mich., and the stepson of Melanie Johns-Secreto.

The couple were introduced by a mutual friend in November 2004 after they had both worked on the presidential campaign of Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts.
31 2011-10-02 It is ironic to note that those who have actually attempted terrorist attacks on American soil and been caught were read their Miranda rights and went to trial, even though some were not United States citizens. Yet Mr. Awlaki, who has never been accused of himself directly attempting an attack, was not given this chance.

Lastly, the assassination is counterproductive because it feeds into the martyr mythology that makes Al Qaeda’s narrative so different from that of most other terrorist groups.

If our policy makers studied history, they would realize that Sayyid Qutb, a founder of radical Islam, while popular in his life, only achieved his legendary status after the Nasser regime in Egypt had him executed, in 1966. Instantly, his books became (and remain) best sellers. Killing people doesn’t make their ideas go away.

Mr. Awlaki was born in New Mexico in 1971 while his father was pursuing graduate studies. Though his parents returned to Yemen when he was seven, he later returned to the United States to pursue degrees in engineering and education. Eventually, he became an imam, or leader, of a mosque in California and later in Virginia. During these years, it is alleged that he met multiple times with at least three of the 9/11 hijackers. But for many American Muslims, he was only known for one thing: the telling of stories from the Koran. He lectured about the lives of the prophets of God, drawing from traditional Islamic sources (and sometimes even Biblical ones).

His captivating lecture style and copious quotations from classical sources made him extremely popular, especially among American Muslim youth. During these pre-9/11 years, these lectures, still available online, became some of the hottest-selling items at some Islamic conferences across America. At this stage, he was not publicly associated with any radical views. However, after 9/11, he adopted a more adversarial and anti-American tone, eventually moving back to Yemen. He was jailed for two years (and rumored to have been tortured).

It was only after his release that he publicly began supporting Al Qaeda and issuing messages calling for attacks upon the United States. It was alleged that he came into contact with or inspired a number of people to attempt terrorist activities: Maj. Nidal Malik Hasan, the Army psychiatrist accused in the 2009 killings in Fort Hood, Tex.; Umar Farouk Abdulmuttalib, accused of trying to set off a bomb hidden in his underwear on a 2009 flight to Detroit; and Faisal Shahzad, who tried to blow up a car in Times Square last year.

Mr. Awlaki’s ideas were dangerous. His message that one cannot be a good Muslim and an American at the same time was insulting to nearly all American Muslims. His views about the permissibility of killing Americans indiscriminately were completely at odds with those of mainstream Muslim clerics around the world. He needed to be refuted. And that is why many people, myself included, were extremely vocal in doing just that.

Mr. Awlaki needed to be challenged, not assassinated. By killing him, America has once again blurred the lines between its own tactics and the tactics of its enemies. In silencing Mr. Awlaki’s voice, not only did America fail to live up to its ideals, but it gave Mr. Awlaki’s dangerous message a life and power of its own. And these two facts make the job of refuting that message now even more difficult.
32 2011-10-02 The challenge is how to construct a model that provides owners with a sufficient drag on payrolls without creating a de facto hard cap.

“We’re not near anything,” Stern said. “But wherever that is, we’re closer than we were before.”

Stern has already canceled a week of preseason games, 43 in all, and will soon have to wipe out a second week if no agreement is reached. He would not make that move official Saturday.

The start of the regular season, scheduled to begin Nov. 1, is also at risk if no deal is reached in the coming week. Stern had vowed “enormous consequences” for failing to make a deal this weekend, but he backed away from that declaration.

“I don’t take myself as seriously as you do,” Stern told reporters. “I apologize. It’s good that we had the players and the owners here and that we could vet a lot of things.”

He added: “If we didn’t think there was any hope, we wouldn’t be scheduling the meetings. But that’s the best that I would say right now.”

The sides are taking Sunday off, Hunter said, “because I generally don’t work on Sundays; I go to church on Sundays.”

Negotiators also took Thursday off in observance of Rosh Hashanah. In between, they spent nearly 13 hours together in a hotel conference room, in sometimes heated discussion.

Stern and Dwyane Wade, the Miami Heat star, had a testy exchange Friday, with Wade shouting at the commissioner, according to various reports. Stern and others lightheartedly acknowledged the flare-up and said the room was calmer Saturday.

“I guess you can call that one unusual,” Derek Fisher, the union president, said of the Wade-Stern clash. Although the tenor remained passionate Saturday, Fisher said, “It’s just that it wasn’t as passionate or boisterous as that.”

There were also fewer voices in the room. Wade and most of the other star players left New York after Friday’s meeting, reducing the player contingent to about 10, from a high of 23. Paul Pierce was the only marquee player remaining. Nine owners were present.

On Monday, the talks will be reduced to the previous three-on-three format that has, to this point, proved more productive.

“When you’ve got 40, 50 people in the room, it’s kind of difficult,” Hunter said. “We probably spent as much time caucusing outside the room with our respective groups than we did inside the room actually talking. Because when we’re inside, things sometimes get a bit tense.”

The full committees will meet again Tuesday to see if the full regular season can be saved.
33 2011-10-02 An examination of the period reveals a more complicated picture. It shows a governor who sometimes put the need to find new revenues ahead of the conservative argument that tax increases almost by definition kill jobs; a shrewd financial manager who aides said was guided by a strong sense of rectitude, not just pragmatism; and a political aspirant willing to buck the orthodoxies of his own party — at least, state lawmakers said, until his national ambitions tempered that impulse and led him to steer a more conservative course.

Today Mr. Romney rarely, if ever, discusses on the campaign trail how he closed the Massachusetts tax loopholes. There is no proud description of them in his two books, even though many lawmakers in the state consider them a rare show of political courage.

“I was surprised that he did what I thought was the right thing to do,” said Michael W. Morrissey, a Democratic state senator during the Romney years and now a district attorney in the state.

Eric Fehrnstrom, a spokesman for Mr. Romney and a former aide in his administration, defended his record, saying he had been on good terms with a business community that benefited from a variety of his economic development policies. “Did they see eye to eye on everything?” Mr. Fehrnstrom said. “Not always. But more than anything they appreciated the strong leadership Mitt Romney brought to the governor’s office in getting the budget under control and bringing the state economy out of its tailspin.”

When he proposed the tax changes, Mr. Romney argued that they amounted to vigilant and fair enforcement of existing rules. Massachusetts business leaders said he was simply raising their taxes — a view that could complicate Mr. Romney’s bid for the presidency.

Aides said his retreat on the issue displayed a responsiveness to constituents and the give-and-take of political negotiations, but some lawmakers in the State House said it fit a familiar pattern. “He was positioning himself for a long-range future plan,” said Representative Kay Khan, a Democrat. “Every move was quite calculated.”

In his 2002 campaign for governor, Mr. Romney ran as a turnaround artist. After a career as a venture capitalist asking companies for money, he liked to tell audiences, he was eager to ask for something else: jobs in Massachusetts.

“I’m looking forward to being the state’s most active salesman, out there banging on doors,” he said in one of his first appearances after announcing his candidacy. “Come to Massachusetts, look what we have for you.”

His campaign swelled with donations from employees of the state’s biggest corporations: Fidelity Investments, Staples, Liberty Mutual.

Mr. Romney said he was determined to reduce taxes in a state long derided for its high costs: in the corridors of finance, “Taxachusetts” had become a casual epithet.

But his campaign promise never to raise taxes left him with few options once in office: the state’s budget deficit had reached $3 billion, a gap that could not be eliminated by cutting spending and reducing the state work force.

Inside the Romney administration, Alan LeBovidge, a recently retired corporate tax adviser at PricewaterhouseCoopers and the state’s commissioner of revenue, stumbled on a potential trove of cash. He found that dozens of Massachusetts banks had reduced their taxes by transferring billions of dollars in assets, like mortgages, into real estate investment trusts. The trusts, by design, were subject to virtually no taxes. Mr. LeBovidge wanted to ban the practice and force the banks to pay outstanding taxes on the assets.

Would the new governor sign on? Mr. Romney, after all, had spent decades trying to wring profits out of companies as a founder of Bain Capital, a Boston private equity firm, and had deep ties to the state’s banking industry.

During a lengthy discussion in Mr. Romney’s office in early 2003, Mr. LeBovidge made his case. “This is costing us a ton of money, Governor,” he recalled telling Mr. Romney.

The governor seemed just as offended as Mr. LeBovidge. “It’s not right,” Mr. Romney said, according to the tax chief. It was a refrain Mr. Romney would repeat to aides and anybody else who asked. Banks are not real estate companies, they are banks, he would say.

Mr. Romney instructed Mr. LeBovidge to pursue the matter.  “Go do it,” Mr. LeBovidge recalled the governor saying.

The governor’s support extended well beyond signing a law that outlawed the tax arrangement. With Mr. Romney’s encouragement, Mr. LeBovidge pursued several years’ worth of outstanding payments from the banks, reaching a major settlement that netted the state $110 million in 2003.

Mr. LeBovidge expanded the Revenue Department’s auditing budget, hired new staff members and combed the tax code for more loopholes.

“He wanted us to go after the big game,” Mr. LeBovidge recalled. “He was very supportive.”

The Revenue Department found dozens of similar practices, and the Romney administration set about closing the loopholes one by one. It proposed bills that would collect $120 million in new corporate taxes for 2003, $90 million in 2004 and $170 million in 2005, records show.

Gone was a regulatory quirk that had let companies avoid taxes on software downloaded from the Internet but required taxes on software installed with a disk. So, too, was a company’s ability to skirt taxes by transferring valuable trademarks to out-of-state subsidiaries.

The Democratic-controlled Legislature, which had assumed that Mr. Romney was cozy with the state’s corporate executives, was both taken aback and thrilled by the onslaught.

“It provided us with a lot of air cover; here was a champion of the business community suggesting that we had to do this,” said Robert E. Travaglini, the former Democratic president of the Massachusetts Senate.

To many chief executives and business groups, it showed something else: a curious insensitivity to the needs of corporations and a willingness to squeeze as much money as possible out of a politically convenient target.

Even allies of the governor expressed some reservations, worrying that a raft of new tax regulations could unsettle companies considering moving to the state.

“Changing the rules and being more aggressive with loopholes sent a message to larger companies,” said Michael P. Hogan, the former chief executive of MassDevelopment, a state-financed group that worked closely with the Romney administration to market the state to companies. “It was a little bit of a step back.”

By the end of Mr. Romney’s term, the loophole measures required companies to pay about $370 million a year in additional taxes, a nearly 20 percent increase from the period before he took office, according to an analysis of government data by the Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation, a nonprofit research group that receives financing from corporations.

The impact of closing the loopholes, which produced a relatively small fraction of state revenues, is an open question. “It cost us jobs,” said David G. Tuerck, an economist at Suffolk University in Boston, though others say that is difficult to measure and subject to debate. During Mr. Romney’s tenure, Massachusetts ranked near the bottom — 47th out of 50 states — in new job creation.

Several experts on the state’s economy said that by increasing tax enforcement, Mr. Romney staved off wider cuts to essential services.

“When you do the cold, hard calculations, the benefits of reducing corporate tax avoidance clearly outweigh the costs,” said Noah Berger, president of the Massachusetts Budget and Policy Center, a nonpartisan research organization.

Mr. Fehrnstrom, the Romney spokesman, said the former governor “believes government has a responsibility to enforce the tax laws and make sure that as companies pursue creative and aggressive accounting techniques that there is an effort to push back.”

In interviews, several business leaders described a sometimes strained relationship with Mr. Romney that began, but did not end, with the tax measures.

His administration drew up legislation, starting in 2003, that sought to raise dozens of government fees affecting businesses: for outdoor advertising, elevator repairs, delivery of petroleum products, even the cost of a road test for a commercial driver’s license (to $40 from $20).

When residential property tax assessments shot up in 2003, the governor signed a bill encouraging towns to offset the higher costs by lowering tax rates for homeowners but raising them for commercial properties.

And when Congress passed a jobs bill in 2004 that forced states like Massachusetts to lower their corporate tax rates, the Romney administration sought to exempt itself from the change to save about $30 million.

“And what would be the point of having a Republican PRO-business governor, again?” asked a Boston Herald editorial opposing the move at the time.

Mr. LeBovidge said that the state simply needed the money.  “We didn’t want to lose the revenue,” he said.

Some business leaders are quick to point out the ways Mr. Romney improved the climate for companies. He created tax credits for new manufacturing jobs, a faster-paced permitting system for businesses and a marketing program intended to lure companies to Massachusetts.

He personally courted big companies like Bristol-Myers Squibb, putting together a package of tax incentives that persuaded the giant pharmaceutical company to open a manufacturing plant in Massachusetts rather than a rival state.

“The governor would build a personal relationship with these C.E.O.’s,” said Ranch C. Kimball, Mr. Romney’s top economic adviser as governor.

However, by 2005, when Mr. Romney proposed his third round of corporate tax loophole closings, “frustrations had reached a boil,” said Michael J. Widmer, president of the Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation.

By far Mr. Romney’s most far-reaching measure, the proposal sought to give Mr. LeBovidge authority to pursue corporate tax evasion, even through out-of-state entities. Mr. LeBovidge argued that his staff needed to keep up with the increasingly exotic tax shelters being marketed by top accounting firms.

The state’s business lobby saw it as flagrant overreaching by government. The Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation warned that it would give the Romney administration “unprecedented authority — broader than that available to the I.R.S. or any other state revenue commissioner.”

Some of the most forceful denunciations came from conservatives in Washington. In a 2005 newsletter, the Council on State Taxation, which represents businesses, mocked “the allegedly pro-business” Mr. Romney for trying to “firmly reclaim for the commonwealth the dubious title of Taxachusetts.”

Grover Norquist, who has successfully pushed dozens of Republican lawmakers to sign no-tax pledges as the president of Americans for Tax Reform, assailed the plan as a threat to free society. He likened it to “crossing state lines to mug someone.”

Mr. Norquist’s voice was especially potent. By the end of Mr. Romney’s governorship, the two men had spoken twice about Mr. Romney’s future in national politics, making clear, Mr. Norquist said, that he was a likely Republican candidate for president.

Mr. Romney, who had previously seemed so immune to the pressure from the business lobby, suddenly reversed course. He yanked the proposal to empower his tax commissioner further, despite support from leading Democrats in the Legislature, and scaled back by half his 2005 plan to raise $170 million in new loophole closings.

“There was a lot of pressure on the administration not to do it,” Mr. LeBovidge said with a hint of regret. Mr. Romney, he said, “felt it was not a battle worth fighting.”

By 2006, Mr. Romney was traveling the country, all but openly campaigning for the White House as a fiscal conservative. Much to Mr. Norquist’s delight, Mr. Romney became the first Republican presidential candidate to sign his no-new-taxes pledge, in 2007 — something he had declined to do five years earlier when he ran for governor.

Mr. Norquist acknowledged that he had been deeply disappointed by Mr. Romney’s corporate tax overhaul. Unlike the governor, Mr. Norquist regards the changes as tax hikes.

“They changed the laws and the rules to significantly raise taxes,” he said. “That is a tax increase.”

But he is willing to look past it now. “The important thing,” Mr. Norquist said, “is that his stated position is that it won’t happen again.”
34 2011-10-02 “I said I wanted to go after him,” Kennedy said. “He asked what Miggie thought, and he talked about walking him. But I’m not going to do that. If I make my pitch there, he rolls over it, or he swings and misses it.”

That was fine with Fielder. “That’s what he’s supposed to do,” he said.

Except the 0-1 pitch, a curveball, broke down and in, right where Fielder could drive it. “I kind of brought it right down to the middle of his swing,” Kennedy said. Kennedy watched the ball leave the park with a mix of wonder and disgust, putting his right hand on top of his cap as if to say, what did I do?

Gibson went out to remove him, and Kennedy walked slowly to the dugout as the towel-waving, sellout crowd of 44,122 sang along to the old Ray Charles hit “Hit the Road Jack.” Fielder, whose only previous postseason was a disaster — he went 1 for 14 in a four-game division series loss to Philadelphia in 2008, the only hit a home run late in Game 4 — nearly beheaded Braun with a celebratory forearm.

“I was really fortunate to duck in time, because the right hook came quick,” Braun said.

Major League Baseball chose to leave Miller Park’s roof and outfield panels closed on a sunny, windy 52-degree afternoon, in part to limit the tricky late-afternoon shadows that hitters often complain about.

There wasn’t much offense anyway. Yovani Gallardo, the Brewers’ starter, allowed four hits in eight innings, struck out nine and held the Diamondbacks scoreless until Ryan Roberts’s home run to center leading off the eighth. Other than the homer, Arizona did not put a runner past first base after the first inning, when Braun’s two-hop throw from left field nailed Willie Bloomquist trying to score from second on a Justin Upton single.

Jerry Hairston Jr., the surprise starter at third for Milwaukee over the slumping Casey McGehee (5 for 58), drove in the first run with a fourth-inning sacrifice fly. Jonathan Lucroy made the score 2-0 in the sixth on a bloop two-out single with two strikes.

Although Arizona led the majors with 48 come-from-behind victories, it could not crack Brewers closer John Axford, who retired the side in order in the ninth. With Axford converting his last 43 save opportunities in the regular season, the Brewers have not blown a ninth-inning lead since opening day.

The Arizona hitting coach DON BAYLOR, who spent Friday night in a hospital after a fainting in the clubhouse, returned to Miller Park on Saturday morning and was in the dugout for the game. Tests showed nothing abnormal, Baylor said, and doctors concluded that he had had an adverse reaction to medication for his bad back. Asked if doctors had changed the medication, Baylor said, “I changed it myself because I threw it in the garbage.”
35 2011-10-02 In “Speculators Get a Break in New Rule” (Fair Game, Sept. 25), Gretchen Morgenson noted how Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida, was objecting to a Commodity Futures Trading Commission rule proposal regarding how many financial contracts traders can accumulate for any given commodity.

Mr. Nelson cited research showing that speculators may now be adding $21 to $27 to the cost of a barrel of oil — or about 25 percent of the total.

If so, why allow speculators who cannot take delivery of any commodity to buck up the Consumer Price Index and defeat all growth in the rest of the American economy?

Just imagine the uproar that would ensue if anyone seriously proposed a new $20-a-barrel tax on oil. Albert Henderson

In “Darwin, the Market Whiz” (Economic View, Sept. 18), Robert H. Frank says adoption of a flat tax “is unlikely because it would fall disproportionately on people with lower incomes.”
36 2011-10-02 BY rights, this should be the election when conservative populists, frequently thwarted and co-opted by the ’s kingmakers, finally succeed in pushing an insurgent candidate to the top of the presidential ticket. Between the zeal of the , the unlovability of and the widespread hatred of all things , there’s never been a better time to run against the Republican establishment and win.

But the populists haven’t found a standard-bearer capable of taking advantage of this moment. ’s act grew tiresome, decided to stick with television, the bubble came and went, and spent months running for president without anybody noticing. This left as the leading populist alternative to Romney — a status she enjoyed right up until the moment people started listening to what she was actually saying.

was supposed to put an end to the game of musical chairs. He was an outsider with insider connections, a populist with experience and organization, a successful governor whose anti-Washington persona guaranteed him credibility with the conservative grass roots.

But then came Perry’s performance in the last two Republican debates. Tongue-tied, underprepared and tone-deaf, the governor mangled his attack lines, lost the thread of his arguments and accused rank-and-file conservatives — his natural base — of heartlessness on . In recent polling, he’s already lost a large chunk of his initial support to yet another potential populist standard-bearer — the pizza mogul .

This cycle of populist disappointment has probably raised the Republican Party’s odds of taking the White House in 2012, by making a swift coronation for Mitt Romney more and more likely. (So long as a certain governor doesn’t lumber into the race, that is.) But it’s a missed opportunity for American conservatism. Republican primary voters deserve a better class of right-wing populist, and the country does as well.

In many ways, the ideological divisions between populist and establishment Republicans have narrowed since the days of and Gerald Ford. (Even a supposed moderate like Jon Huntsman has much more in common with Reagan than with a Ford or a Nelson Rockefeller.) Today’s intra-Republican battles often revolve more around style than substance, pitting Wasilla against Wall Street, Paint Creek against Harvard Business School, the uncompromising purity of the talk-radio dial against the deal-making required to govern.
37 2011-10-02 That is how the most charming story of the N.F.L. season — Harvard quarterback, aware of the outsize attention his pedigree receives, becomes the emblematic leader of a 3-0 Buffalo Bills team whose talent and town have been overlooked — got its start.

“I’ve never seen the kid fail at anything,” Murphy said.

Fitzpatrick carved himself into a combine legend by completing the Wonderlic assessment test in nine minutes (players are allowed 12 minutes), and reportedly scoring an unconfirmed 48 of 50. But what Fitzpatrick, who was taken in the seventh round of the 2005 draft by the St. Louis Rams, and the Bills have accomplished in the first month of the season might be even more startling.

A team that has missed the playoffs for 11 years and had six straight losing seasons, that did not win its first game last year until Week 10, that is filled with undrafted players (receiver David Nelson), underappreciated contributors (running back Fred Jackson, who is outperforming two running backs the Bills have drafted in the last two years) and other teams’ castoffs (Fitzpatrick, who was let go by the Rams and Bengals, among others), now sits atop the A.F.C. East. Improbably, the Bills also lead the league in points a game, with 37.7, outgunning the New England Patriots last week to legitimize a stunning turnaround.

“Guys like that, you get a chip on your shoulder that you have to prove yourself, you may feel you have to do that more than a first-round draft pick or a name guy,” tight end Scott Chandler said. “I know I, personally, have felt that being cut from three other teams, you know you can play, so when you get the opportunity you want to prove to other teams and personnel people that you can play.”

Amid the rubble of the 4-12 finish last season, there were shards of hope. Four of the losses were by just 3 points to playoff teams, three of them in overtime. Linebacker Shawne Merriman, still the biggest name on the Bills, was on teams that were loaded with talent in San Diego. And he insists that when he got to Buffalo in the middle of last season, he discovered a team that was not nearly as bad as its record. He watched film and saw a missed play here, a close call there and determined that the Bills were just a few fixes away from competitiveness.

But a franchise steeped in losing needed a culture change, and Coach Chan Gailey had just gotten started. He removed televisions from the weight room, a signal that the Bills would be all business. After just two games last season, he dumped the starting quarterback Trent Edwards, a third-round draft pick of the previous staff, in favor of Fitzpatrick, even though he says he did not know at the time if Fitzpatrick was capable of performing the way he is now.

“I’m getting way too many questions about how that has happened,” Gailey said. “We got a bunch of guys that try to get better, they understand what we’re trying to get done. I think time together has a lot to do with it, and I really do think the maturation of our offensive line has really helped us. We have a better idea of what our players can do, so maybe we’re putting them in a better position. And Fitz is playing very, very well right now.”

Fitzpatrick, the rare player who wears his wedding ring on the field, still is called Fitzgerald, even by stadium announcers, and has remained so unassuming that when he met Murphy for dinner a few years ago, he became excited when Murphy brought him some Harvard sweats. But around him, a transformation has occurred, for the team and the town. Fitzpatrick said last week that his brother, watching a game at a bar in Santa Fe, was asked for his autograph. When Brandon Fitzpatrick explained it was Ryan who was the Bills’ quarterback, the man said he knew, he wanted Brandon’s autograph because he was Ryan’s brother.

The morning news in Buffalo last week discussed the latest odds that the Bills could play that other N.F.L. underdog — the undefeated Detroit Lions — in the Super Bowl. Before its home opener this season, the team confirmed it had hit a 10-year low in season-ticket sales. But the Bills’ chief executive, Russ Brandon, said the team’s revival had spurred a spike in individual-game ticket sales, particularly for the game against the Jets on Nov. 6.

“Sales have been brisk, and excitement is at a very high peak,” Brandon said.

The Bills still have a long way to go before they match the heroics, or the capacity for heartbreak, of the 1990s Bills, who lost four consecutive Super Bowls. This team could be undone by a lack of experience.

After playing the Bengals on Sunday, they face more tests against the Eagles, the Giants, the Redskins and the Jets before embarking on a three-game trip against Dallas, Miami and the Jets. And then there is the high-wire manner of their two most recent victories, coming back from three scores to beat the Raiders and the Patriots.

For Fitzpatrick, coming from behind is the least of his worries. Murphy watched the comeback against the Patriots last Sunday and recalled that Fitzpatrick had led Harvard back from two 21-point deficits, one in his first start as a freshman and one as a senior to preserve the undefeated season. He did it again in his first appearance in an N.F.L. game in 2005.

“People ask me why does that happen, and I’m like this,” Fitzpatrick said, holding his hand out to indicate that his emotions are a flat line.

“After we won the Raiders game, I was excited, but it’s very hard to get down. And it’s very hard to get me excited.”

In Buffalo this season, he might be the only one.
38 2011-10-02 Rollins hypothesized that this past season might have represented the first time that Reyes had given his maximum effort and had given it in service of the greater good of the Mets.

“In previous years, you just didn’t quite get that feeling from him, being in the other dugout,” Rollins said. “This year you really did. It was like, ‘This man is doing everything he can.’ ”

Just a few years ago, Reyes was an object of scorn for the Phillies and their fans, who saw him as something of a showboat. But the scorn cooled along with the competition between the teams. This year, the Phillies finished the regular season 25 games ahead of the Mets.

Reyes, 28, hit .337 to win the National League batting title and finished with a .384 on-base percentage and a .493 slugging percentage. Rollins, 32, finished the season batting .268 with a .338 on-base percentage and a .399 slugging percentage.

Both players struggled this summer with injuries — Reyes with his hamstring and Rollins with his calf and groin. Both should find their services in demand this winter.

“He had a great year,” Rollins said of Reyes. “But in free agency, you take the year and a career all into consideration. Then on top of that, you take the things they don’t see on the field, the intangibles in the clubhouse, leading the team. Is this guy a winning player? What type of team player is he?”

For any potential suitors, Rollins seemed to draw a subtle distinction between himself and Reyes.

“Baseball is not only about numbers,” Rollins said. “You get paid a lot with numbers. But you get people to fall in love with you and want you around and give you, I guess, a little bit more money when you can do all the other things along with put up big numbers.”

Rollins drew a less subtle distinction when asked about Reyes’s decision to leave the final game of the season after bunting for a base hit in the first inning to protect his lead in the batting race.

“I would have bunted, too,” Rollins said. “I probably wouldn’t have come out of the game, though.”

The Mets played their last game Wednesday, which was the last time that Reyes spoke with the news media.

Rollins put himself in Reyes’s position: “I fought this hard to be in this position, and I’m going to see it to the end. Me, personally, I’m going to ride it out. I would have played the whole game. That’s me, though.”

Rollins for now remains a vital component of the Phillies’ short-term plans, which involve winning another championship to add to their 2008 World Series win.

“He’s had problems with his legs for the past couple of years, but right now he’s moving very well,” Phillies Manager Charlie Manuel said of Rollins. “His swing is good right now, and hopefully it’ll carry right on through.”

But Rollins can carry it only as long as the Phillies stay alive, and he said the only thing certain beyond November was that he would be playing baseball somewhere.

When asked if he could imagine the Phillies without Rollins, outfielder Hunter Pence said, “I don’t even want to try.”

Rollins was asked what would happen if a team from Queens, newly deprived of a shortstop, came looking for him.
39 2011-10-02 Everything you ever wanted to know about food (but didn’t know whom to ask)....
40 2011-10-02 As guinea pigs go, they don’t get much more cuddly than the Z4, a pretty hardtop convertible that’s especially suited to this 4-cylinder tryout. The test gets trickier in October, when BMW will offer this TwinPower engine in the much-larger 528i, the lowest-priced version of the 5 Series sedan.

For BMW fans addicted to 6 cylinders who would howl “bait and switch,” the company has technology and numbers on its side. The new engine is stronger, smaller, lighter and drinks much less. TwinPower’s bag of tricks includes direct injection and a slick twin-scroll turbocharger: exhaust gases from pairs of cylinders are kept separate and fed into dual turbine scrolls, reducing turbulence and the lag between a punch of the gas pedal and a whistling rush of turbo power.

And that’s some rush. With 240 horsepower, the engine has 15 fewer horses than the former 6, but has gained 40 pound-feet of torque. Its 260 pound-feet peaks at a remarkably low 1,250 r.p.m., compared with 2,750 for the 6.

BMW next bolted on its excellent 8-speed automatic transmission, although a 6-speed manual is optional.

Fuel conservation measures include a start-stop system that shuts down the engine at traffic lights, though it restarts with a ragged feel; the driver can bypass the system with a button.

BMW says the engine, with the 6-speed manual, shaves 0.1 second from the old model’s 0-to-60 m.p.h. time, at 5.5 seconds. The company claims a 0.4-second gain, at 5.6 seconds, with the automatic.

Spur the engine as intended and there’s surprising muscle either around town or on the open road. And this 4-banger sounds terrific; a chesty 7,000-r.p.m. rasp replaces the 6-cylinder’s soothing chamber music.

Considering the engine’s happy tune and flexible power, I’m curious whether this Z4 will create a “don’t ask don’t tell” situation: if customers don’t inquire, or peek under the hood, will sales associates happily sell this Z4 without mentioning the missing 2 cylinders?

For relatively brisk duty, the BMW’s lovely silhouette, deluxe interior and smooth ride make for a fine companion. Yet the Z4 chassis still isn’t fully in tune with the rest of the car.

The harder you push, the more the BMW loses the thread. The body rolls, the steering goes light and surrenders, the back end bobbles. Even with my test car’s M Sport package — including larger 18-inch wheels and driver-adjustable suspension, steering and throttle — the BMW couldn’t match the hang-on thrills of the Porsche Boxster or the new, remarkably agile Mercedes SLK.

The unfathomable part is how BMW routinely designs two-ton sport sedans and 2.5-ton S.U.V.’s that deliver pure handling magic, but cannot manage the trick with a small two-seater.

As always, Chez Bimmer doesn’t serve free lunch. At $49,525 to start, the 28i costs $2,150 more than last year’s 6-cylinder model. That premium does include new features, including Bluetooth, Xenon headlamps and a trunk pass-through.

Still, the 28i far undercuts the 300-horsepower 35i (at $56,025) or the 335-horse 35is (at $65,075), while crushing their 17/24 m.p.g. economy. In comparison with those models, this Z4’s math is easy: Subtract 2 cylinders, save thousands in payments and fuel bills and draw just as many stares.
41 2011-10-02 “Pop Up” sliced through the cultural landscape by giving music fans exactly what they wanted: credibility, not to mention some ironic distance. In other words, fans could simultaneously enjoy and skewer pop’s latest output. “People felt it communicated: ‘I read my music videos,’ ” Mr. Thompson said.

But by 2002 both artists and fans were becoming less interested in videos, and VH1 decided the “Pop Up” concept was exhausted. “We expanded, did some episodes of ‘Brady Bunch’ and ‘Who Wants to Be a Millionaire,’ ” Mr. Thompson said. “But everyone still felt it had run its course. Everyone but us.”

The show’s last episode was that August. Mr. Thompson packed up his Bowery apartment and headed for Los Angeles. “I didn’t pitch VH1 for a decade,” he said. “And I didn’t hear from them either.”

Then, a year ago, Mr. Thompson met with Shelly Tatro, VH1’s senior vice president for production and programming, who was with the company during the heyday of “Pop Up.” The show that resulted from that meeting quickly fizzled, but “in our last conversation I said to Shelly in a jokey way, ‘Call me when you want to bring back ‘Pop Up,’ ” Mr. Thompson said. “Three months later she called.”

Ms. Tatro said, “It had always been near and dear to my heart.”

She wasn’t alone. “Bringing the show back was a no-research gut decision,” the channel’s president, Tom Calderone, said. “People were so loud about how much they missed it, we said, ‘Let’s just do it.’ ”

The musician Pete Wentz, host of VH1’s coming special “100 Greatest Songs of the ’00s,” was a junior in high school when “Pop Up” had its debut; he was instantly hooked. “The show made every video more interesting,” he said.

Of course much of its charm came from the yet-unknown information it presented, uncovered by researchers in constant contact with musicians’ camps. (An average video takes two staffers a week to research, then another few days to write, with 25 videos in progress at a time.) The missives were short, their content grabby.

Today it’s a mode familiar enough to be obvious. “ ‘Pop Up’ beat Twitter to its own game,” Ms. Tatro said.

Saul Austerlitz, the author of “Money for Nothing: A History of the Music Video From the Beatles to the White Stripes,” said, “The show first struck a chord because it allowed people to have that experience” they would later get with social media.

The parallel initially concerned Mr. Thompson. After all, fans are perfectly capable of searching Google for relevant information while simultaneously watching a video. “For that generation who’s getting their first taste, I worried that we’d be seen as a rip-off of current culture,” he said.

That wasn’t the only problem that the Internet posed. The backstage stories once first gleaned by “Pop Up” researchers were already spattered across the Web. Mr. Thompson wasn’t as worried by that. “It’s not what we tell you,” he said. “It’s when we tell you it. The moment Britney bends over, we tell you a story about K-Fed. ...” He trailed off. “You know.”

And “Pop Up” is taking some advantage of the Internet; on its Web site you can inscribe your own captions on videos.

Other than that and a few tweaks to graphics, the show has barely had a touchup. It’s fitting, since the videos it dissects have a much cleaner look these days.

Mr. Thompson has lamented this shift for ages. Videos are often “essentially glorified GQ shoots on a soundstage in Midtown,” he said. “There’s just not always that much to talk about.”

As Mr. Austerlitz explained, “Videos have changed to reflect their environment. They’re smaller, lighter and made for people to watch at their desks. It’s not a superstar medium anymore.”

Mr. Thompson is well aware but not at all deterred. “I’d rather make fun of those indie bands with all the credibility and convince everybody that hey, Lindsay Lohan is actually a good singer,” he said. “That’s the game: to always keep you second-guessing what you see.”
42 2011-10-02 ON a recent Friday afternoon in Copenhagen, a female busker with a guitar stood on the cobblestones of Israels Plads, a large square in the city center, strumming a spirited version of “Street Life,” the classic 1970s funk song.

The choice was apt. All around her, a newly humming street life filled the square, which until recently was frequented mainly by pigeons and parked cars. On bicycles and on foot, hundreds of shoppers — well-dressed middle-age women, tattooed rocker couples, office workers in skirts and suits — buzzed throughout the formerly lackluster expanse, eager to discover the delicacies of the Danish capital’s long-awaited new culinary hot spot, Torvehallerne (torvehallernekbh.dk), an upscale covered market that opened in September and is the first of its kind in the city.

The crowds shuttled between the two glass and steel market halls on opposite sides of the square to snap up blue cheese, organic sausage, artisanal honey, red velvet cupcakes, Dead Sea salts, French olive oil and other bounty, both local and international.

“This plaza used to be empty, especially in the evening, and there were a lot of drug dealers,” said Hans Peter Hagens, who both conceived the covered market and was its architect, as he sat nearby on a park bench and admired the scene. “So I wanted to find a solution where you could create city life, and a market attracts a lot of city life.”

He proposed the idea to the municipal government in 1997 and traveled to Sweden, France, Spain, Italy, Morocco, Egypt, Turkey, China and Cuba to study markets. But political and financial obstacles held the project back. When the global economic crisis forced the market’s primary investor to leave the project in 2008, Torvehallerne appeared to be dead. But a new investor came forward the next year and the market’s twin modernist buildings (they look a bit like Bauhaus-style greenhouses) came to life.

“We wanted to make a very simple structure,” said Mr. Hagens of the symmetrical building design and regularly spaced trees in the courtyard, a layout partly inspired by the Mezquita, the great mosque and cathedral in Córdoba, Spain. “In the market, the architecture has to be simple and like a background frame for the foods.”
43 2011-10-02 The Designer     The Barcelona-born Cristian Zuzunaga trained as a type designer, and his love for letterpress squares evolved into a fixation on the pixel, ''the icon of our time.''...
44 2011-10-02 The Designers     Front, the Stockholm collective made up of (from left) Anna Lindgren, Sofia Lagerkvist and Charlotte von der Lancken, combines rigorous concepts with visual humor....
45 2011-10-02 The Designer     Hugo Franca works with hardwoods indigenous to his native Brazil to create spectacular environments that are environmentally friendly....
46 2011-10-02 To the Sports Editor:     Re ''Players Are Starting to Think Before They Hit, N.F.L. Says,'' Sept. 25: Some coaches worry ''that officiating is too uneven to guarantee that the rules are enforced properly and equitably.'' Atlanta cornerback Dunta ...
47 2011-10-02 Denmark's national spirit is a wily shape-shifter. It travels under a number of aliases -- snaps to many, aquavit (''water of life'') to the poetic, braendevin (''burning wine'') to the not-yet-convinced -- and comes in many guises. Made from dist...
48 2011-10-02 To the Editor:     In ''Speculators Get a Break in New Rule'' (Fair Game, Sept. 25), Gretchen Morgenson noted how Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida, was objecting to a Commodity Futures Trading Commission rule proposal regarding how many fi...
49 2011-10-02 Sidney Crosby said Saturday that he would not play in the Pittsburgh Penguins' regular-season opener at Vancouver on Thursday. Speaking to reporters after the Penguins' afternoon practice in Detroit, Crosby said, ''No,'' when asked if there was an...
50 2011-10-02 This Food and Drink Issue of the magazine -- the fourth annual -- is full of questions. I have two of my own, and they're the same questions I've been asking myself since I began cooking 40 years ago. How can food change my life? And how can food ...
51 2011-10-02 of a Business Lunch?      Many, many years ago, in a galaxy called Manhattan, I was employed as a tadpole editor by a national magazine whose name shall go unmentioned. One day the editor called me into his office and said, ''I want you to invite ...
52 2011-10-03 Neither ace was dominant, but the Tigers’ Justin Verlander was better than C.C. Sabathia, and the Tigers put the Yankees on the brink of elimination with a 5-4 win on Monday....
53 2011-10-03 Follow along for live analysis of Game 3 of the American League division series between the Yankees and Tigers....
54 2011-10-03 The 45,000 people who show up at Oracle's mammoth trade show are all potential sales targets. So why not show up, praise Oracle onstage, and go at it on the sales floor?...
55 2011-10-03 The 45,000 people who show up at Oracle's mammoth trade show are all potential sales targets. So why not show up, praise Oracle onstage, and go at it on the sales floor?...
56 2011-10-03 President Obama says the campaign will be a "contest of values and vision."...
57 2011-10-03 President Obama says the campaign will be a "contest of values and vision."...
58 2011-10-03 Kerim Yildiz, a prominent human rights advocate, had waited nearly a year for a visa to visit the United States. After press coverage, it finally came, though he is none the wiser about what changed....
59 2011-10-03 Kerim Yildiz, a prominent human rights advocate, had waited nearly a year for a visa to visit the United States. After press coverage, it finally came, though he is none the wiser about what changed....
60 2011-10-03 For a generation of digital music users, the bigger significance of Rhapsody's deal to acquire Napster is what it means for the Napster name....
61 2011-10-03 For a generation of digital music users, the bigger significance of Rhapsody's deal to acquire Napster is what it means for the Napster name....
62 2011-10-03 Sonny Vandevelde's Paris fashion week photo diary....
63 2011-10-03 Sonny Vandevelde's Paris fashion week photo diary....
64 2011-10-03 Wall Street examines the swap execution facility and asks a question that most people outside the financial industry would appreciate: "What is a S.E.F., and what is it good for?"...
65 2011-10-03 Wall Street examines the swap execution facility and asks a question that most people outside the financial industry would appreciate: "What is a S.E.F., and what is it good for?"...
66 2011-10-03 Eugene Souleiman and Pat McGrath discuss the hair and makeup for the Spring 2012 collection....
67 2011-10-03 Eugene Souleiman and Pat McGrath discuss the hair and makeup for the Spring 2012 collection....
68 2011-10-03 Off the Rails: The latest numbers from the transit system show just how packed the L train has become....
69 2011-10-03 The contest comes down to two inanimate objects made memorably active....
70 2011-10-03 The contest comes down to two inanimate objects made memorably active....
71 2011-10-03 Free, it seems, has its costs. Microsoft's chief counsel explains its patent strategy toward Google's Android....
72 2011-10-03 Free, it seems, has its costs. Microsoft's chief counsel explains its patent strategy toward Google's Android....
73 2011-10-03 There are plenty of reasons couples avoid talking about money. And they are all bad....
74 2011-10-03 There are plenty of reasons couples avoid talking about money. And they are all bad....
75 2011-10-03 A qualitative look at how nine candidates since 1980 did after entering the presidential race substantially later than most others in their field....
76 2011-10-03 A qualitative look at how nine candidates since 1980 did after entering the presidential race substantially later than most others in their field....
77 2011-10-03 A species may be listed as critically endangered while some populations within its ranks are thriving and some are probably beyond saving....
78 2011-10-03 A species may be listed as critically endangered while some populations within its ranks are thriving and some are probably beyond saving....
79 2011-10-03 Plus: How do you fire a client that's not worth the trouble?...
80 2011-10-03 Plus: How do you fire a client that's not worth the trouble?...
81 2011-10-03 Brad Ziegler came into a tie ballgame for Arizona and left having allowed four runs without recording an out....
82 2011-10-03 Brad Ziegler came into a tie ballgame for Arizona and left having allowed four runs without recording an out....
83 2011-10-03 After a four-year renovation, the National Maritime Museum in Amsterdam has reopened, with a renewed focus on experiencing the Netherlands' seafaring history through interactive presentations, voyage simulations and life-sized seafaring replicas....
84 2011-10-03 After a four-year renovation, the National Maritime Museum in Amsterdam has reopened, with a renewed focus on experiencing the Netherlands' seafaring history through interactive presentations, voyage simulations and life-sized seafaring replicas....
85 2011-10-03 What place do animals hold in modern American culture? As a long-term photo project by Colleen Plumb makes clear, the animal kingdom - both real and manufactured - varies widely....
86 2011-10-03 What place do animals hold in modern American culture? As a long-term photo project by Colleen Plumb makes clear, the animal kingdom - both real and manufactured - varies widely....
87 2011-10-03 Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta warned on Sunday that Israel was becoming increasingly isolated in the Middle East, and said Israeli leaders must restart negotiations with the Palestinians and work to restore relations with Egypt and Turkey.

Mr. Panetta told reporters traveling with him that while Israel is still the most powerful state in the region, “Is it enough to maintain a military edge if you’re isolating yourself in the diplomatic arena?” He continued, “Real security can only be achieved by both a strong diplomatic effort as well as a strong effort to project your military strength.”

Mr. Panetta is scheduled to meet this week with Israeli and Palestinian leaders, and then to travel to a meeting of NATO defense ministers in Brussels.

“It’s pretty clear that at this dramatic time in the Middle East, when there have been so many changes, that it is not a good situation for Israel to become increasingly isolated,” he said. “And that’s what’s happening.”

Israel has seen its once-friendly relations with Turkey sour over Israel’s commando raid last-year on a Gaza-bound flotilla. And the revolts of the Arab Spring have toppled leaders with whom Israel could do business, like Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, and given vent to anti-Israel sentiment across the region.
88 2011-10-03 BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) — Syrian dissidents on Sunday formally established a broad-based national council designed to overthrow President Bashar al-Assad’s government, which they accused of pushing the country to the brink of civil war.

The announcement of the Syrian National Council at a news conference in Istanbul appeared to be the most serious step yet to unify a fragmented opposition.

Burhan Ghalioun, a prominent Syrian opposition figure who read out the founding statement of the council in Istanbul, accused the government of fomenting sectarian strife in Syria to maintain its grip on power.

A group of activists had declared the preliminary formation of the council last month, but its structure, its goals and a founding statement signed by major opposition factions had not been announced until this conference.

Members said the council included representatives from the Damascus Declaration group, a pro-democracy network; the Syrian Muslim Brotherhood, a banned Islamic political party; various Kurdish factions; the Local Coordination Committees, a group that helps organize and document protests; and other independent and tribal figures.
89 2011-10-03 Go to next slide
90 2011-10-03 Fourth-ranked Andy Murray of Britain claimed his 19th career title in beating Donald Young of the United States, 6-2, 6-0, in the final of the Thailand Open in Bangkok. The top-seeded Murray was in control throughout the 48-minute match, exploiting a lack of experience and unforced errors from Young, who is ranked 55th.

¶ Li Na lost her first match before home fans since winning the French Open in June, extending her inconsistent form with a loss to the Romanian qualifier Monica Niculescu in the first round of the China Open in Beijing. The fifth-ranked Li fell, 6-4, 6-0, to the 58th-ranked Niculescu. Li, 29, lost in the second round at Wimbledon and the first round of the United States Open.
91 2011-10-03 The newly reopened September 11th Victim Compensation Fund will resume taking applications on Monday.

The $2.8 billion fund is intended to help people who became ill after working at ground zero and others whose sicknesses can be tied to the site. Residents, workers and others can apply, including those whose claims to the first fund were denied.

“Everybody who is eligible should apply for this,” said John Feal, a leading advocate for injured first responders.The deadline for applying is Oct. 3, 2013, or two years from the time a person learns that a physical injury or sickness resulted from exposure to ground zero. The program will run for six years.

Congress established the fund after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. It operated for two years, giving $6 billion to victims’ families and $1 billion to the injured. Last year, Congress passed the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act to reopen the fund and provide additional help to people affected by the disaster and its aftermath.

The new federal law allocated $2.8 billion for compensation and $1.5 billion for medical monitoring and care.
92 2011-10-03 The American justice system rests on open and transparent proceedings. A recent ruling by Judge James Ware of Federal District Court in San Francisco wisely upheld this principle in ordering the release of a video recording of the civil trial on the constitutionality of Proposition 8, California’s voter-approved ban on same-sex marriage.

The discriminatory measure was struck down last year by Vaughn Walker, the Federal District Court judge who presided at the trial; the case is pending appeal. Judge Ware addressed the separate question of whether the videotape should remain under court seal, as Proposition 8’s supporters urged. Pressing for the videotape’s release were the trial’s victorious plaintiffs, and a media coalition, including The New York Times Company.

Public access to trials and court records is “foremost among the aspects of the federal judicial system that foster public confidence in the fairness and integrity of the process,” Judge Ware wrote in his 14-page opinion. He rejected the assertion of the proposition’s backers that suppressing the videotapes was necessary to protect their two witnesses — both well-known individuals who testified at the trial and sometimes make TV appearances. He also rejected the claim that the Supreme Court’s order blocking broadcast of the trial as it was taking place bars releasing the videotape now.

Proposition 8’s proponents are appealing Judge Ware’s decision. They are plainly concerned that releasing the videotape will further expose the emptiness of their arguments for denying gay people the freedom to marry. But in America, potential embarrassment is insufficient ground for denying the public access to vital court records in such a momentous case.
93 2011-10-03 TODAY, the nation welcomes back nine justices who toil quietly and, for the most part, outside public view. But there is no reason the public should be denied access to their consideration of and arguments about urgent questions — from global warming to health care — that affect us all. Cameras in the courtroom of the United States Supreme Court are long overdue.

To hear oral arguments and the handing down of decisions, citizens and countless school groups line up outside the Supreme Court building, completed in 1935, for a chance to experience the court in action for two fleeting hours. Crowds camp out all night for high-profile cases. Many who stand in these lines and endure all-night waits will be disappointed: space in the magnificent courtroom is very tight.

In a typical session, during which two cases are argued, there are just 250 seats available, many of which are set aside for special guests. Seating is so limited that a separate line forms for those willing to sit for just three minutes, during which the spectators can experience a sternly monitored glimpse into the sanctum before they are hurried along to make room for others. Most Americans, including those who live far from Washington, or who are unwilling or unable to travel to the court building, never try.

“Equal justice under law” is the inscription on the face of the court building. It is time that we the people had equal access to the process by which that justice is meted out.

The benefits of increased access and transparency are many. Democracy’s first principles strongly support the people’s right to know how their government works. This would seem to be underscored by this court’s stubborn insistence on freedom of communication in a democratic society. Recall that earlier this year, the court held that the First Amendment protected the right of protesters to hector a military family during a funeral service for their son, who was killed in Iraq.  And the court decided that the same societal interest in free speech outweighed California’s interest in protecting minors from extremely violent video games. These are but two of many examples in which the current court has made plain its view that, in extreme cases, the force of First Amendment rights shall outweigh all else.
94 2011-10-03 COPENHAGEN (Reuters) — Helle Thorning-Schmidt said on Sunday that she had agreed with political allies to form a three-party center-left coalition government, after a decade of center-right rule in Denmark.

Ms. Thorning-Schmidt, the leader of the Social Democratic Party, will be the first woman to serve as Denmark’s prime minister. She said on Danish television that she had completed a policy program “that will bring Denmark out on the other side” of its economic crisis. “With this program, we can modernize Denmark,” she said before paying a brief visit to Queen Margrethe, who gave her formal approval.

The coalition includes the Social Democrats, Socialist People’s Party and Social Liberals.
95 2011-10-03 But Web video was supposed to be Hollywood’s greatest laboratory ever, a place to incubate ideas cheaply and take some of the stomach-churning guesswork out of selecting concepts for shows and movies — instead of spending millions to develop entertainment that more often than not flops straight out of the gate.

Six years after the proliferation of Web video, the number of entertainment concepts that have moved from Internet shorts to successful television shows are few. Hollywood still largely relies on its time-tested methods of finding hits: scripts funneled through agencies, young comedians, books and magazine articles. “The industry needs to continue to take risks on fresh ideas and people and, to that end, figure out how to better mine the Web,” said Jeff Gaspin, former chairman of NBC Universal Television. There are instances when it has worked. One home run was Nickelodeon’s “Fred: The Movie,” based on a Web series created by a Nebraska teenager, Lucas Cruikshank; its premiere attracted more than eight million viewers, according to Nielsen, making it one of the year’s top children’s telecasts. A sequel arrives Oct. 22.

But the result has more typically been a thud. “$#*! My Dad Says,” a CBS comedy based on a blog, was canceled after one season because of low ratings; “Quarterlife,” an NBC show that sprang from a Web drama, was dropped after one episode. As it turns out, what pops on the Web — short, unpolished bursts — is extremely hard to refine into the kind of longer-form content that flows through Hollywood’s traditional piping.

Part of the problem, at least in the eyes of Mr. Boedigheimer and his managers, involves that systemized development process. When network or studio teams do find something online with potential, they push it through the same creaky mill — focus groups, executive scrutiny — that they have relied on for decades to refine raw ideas into great entertainment (or at least commercially viable entertainment).

It is a process that can take two years, during which the online spark could easily die out. A new YouTube sensation could steal your thunder. “You get pushed around for months on end and so many voices get involved that the original voice — what was special — gets diluted or ruined,” said Gary Binkow, a partner at the Collective, the management company that represents Mr. Boedigheimer.

So Mr. Boedigheimer and the Collective are making the pilot themselves, with the managers picking up the bill. Aside from speed, the costs are lower. Making a 30-minute animated pilot through Hollywood channels (the route that “SpongeBob” took) costs about $1 million. The “Annoying Orange” pilot will cost a few hundred thousand dollars.

Conrad Vernon, one of the directors of “Shrek 2” and other DreamWorks Animation movies, is producing the pilot, which was co-written by Tom Sheppard, an Emmy winner for “Pinky and the Brain.” The Collective plans to shop it to networks starting next week. The target audience is children 6 to 12.

Trying to buck the industry’s deeply entrenched systems is a risk, but one the Collective says it thinks is worth taking: it is how Mr. Cruikshank made it to Nickelodeon. “Fred: the Movie” was independently made and sold to that network after the fact.

“Annoying Orange” has a lot going for it, including pun-strewn dialogue and the kind of sophomoric humor that is catnip to young boys and college students; episodes typically showcase a guest food getting chopped to bits. (In “Annoying Orange: A Cheesy Episode,” a talking chunk of Parmesan gets shredded with a grater. “That looks really degrading,” Orange quips.) It has tonal similarities to both “Beavis and Butt-Head” and “South Park” and features celebrity cameos. (James Caan voiced a jalapeño.)

But there are also liabilities. The crude animation that looks charming online would look cheap on TV. The “Annoying Orange” setting is extremely confining — a kitchen counter. And YouTube success itself can be off-putting. The entertainment industry’s senior ranks are still populated with people who, deep down, believe that the audience does not tell them what it wants; they tell the audience.

The goal of the “Annoying Orange” pilot is to prove to skeptical television executives that “Annoying Orange” can “embrace the biggest audience possible,” Mr. Boedigheimer said, while “maintaining the attitude and charm.” It relocates Orange and his buddies (Grandpa Lemon, Midget Apple) to a magical fruit cart that can travel in time. One segment features a knight who kidnaps Orange’s love interest, Passion Fruit, while another is set during the Revolutionary War.

Mr. Boedigheimer got the idea for “Annoying Orange” one night in 2009 when he was lying in bed. He started thinking about a piece of fruit that could talk and got the giggles. His dog, Cuddles, looked at him as if he were crazy, “but I couldn’t get it out of my head,” Mr. Boedigheimer said.

The next day, he bought an orange at a Food 4 Less supermarket and went to work in his kitchen, taping a segment with a Sony video camera and using software like Final Cut Pro to make a clip for YouTube. Working with friends, Mr. Boedigheimer has since made more than 90 videos, uploading a new one on YouTube every Friday.

“People respond because it’s simple and silly,” he said. “That, and people like to see talking food get hacked in half. Everybody needs a good kersplat once in a while.”

Even if Hollywood remains unpersuaded, “Annoying Orange” is about to become ubiquitous at the mall. The Collective plans to announce on Monday that it has secured a wide-ranging merchandise deal for the fruit. Themed T-shirts will arrive at Penney’s stores nationwide in October; Toys “R” Us will “prominently position” talking plush Oranges and related backpack adornments, among other items, in its stores, according to Richard Barry, a vice president of the chain.

“We think the irreverent humor is right on trend,” Mr. Barry said.
96 2011-10-03 Facebook will also hold during Advertising Week the initial meeting of its new Client Council, she added. The council is composed of marketers like Coca-Cola, General Motors and Procter along with agencies like BBDO Worldwide and the McCann Worldgroup.

The Advertising Week organizers have also wooed more associations into scheduling big events during Advertising Week 2011 than in previous years, joining annual gatherings like the Mixx conference.

For instance, a leading national magazine conference that in recent years has been held in Chicago, Phoenix and Boca Raton, Fla., will take place for the first time during an Advertising Week. It is the 2011 American Magazine Conference, being presented on Tuesday and Wednesday by MPA — the Association of Magazine Media and the American Society of Magazine Editors.

There will even be posters in more than 40 Duane Reade drugstores in Midtown Manhattan — near the conference site of the Grand Hyatt hotel — that proclaim, “Welcome to the magazine capital of the world.”

The agenda for Advertising Week 2011 “is very ambitious,” said Matt Scheckner, who has been the executive director since the initial Advertising Week in 2004. He predicted that the number of participants would be “a little north” of last year, when about 70,000 people attended.

Another aspect of this Advertising Week that is intended to increase its appeal is the scheduling of presentations that, the organizers hope, will make news rather than plow familiar ground.

One such panel, titled the “Advertising Week Financial Forecast,” is planned for Monday, with participants that include ZenithOptimedia, PricewaterhouseCoopers and Google. Executives of ZenithOptimedia, part of the Publicis Groupe, said last week that during the panel they would update their most recent predictions for advertising spending, both in the United States and globally. Usually, the fall updates of the ZenithOptimedia quarterly forecasts are made through news releases.

Another element of Advertising Week meant to raise its profile is the inclusion of sessions devoted to a problem that has long vexed the industry: increasing the diversity of its work force.

For example, there will be a daylong event on Tuesday with the bold title “Where Are All the Black People?” Attendees will be able to talk to agency recruiters and have their portfolios reviewed by creative professionals.

And on Friday, about 100 students from 14 colleges and universities around the country will attend the first Multicultural Media Talent Pipeline, a six-hour forum sponsored by an agency called Forty-Two Degrees at MediaVest/MediaVest Multicultural, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of Publicis.

“I have all these open positions currently, and unless I poach from another agency, it’s hard to find qualified professionals” who are black or Hispanic, said Steven Wolfe Pereira, executive vice president and managing director at MV42°, as the agency is informally known.

“A third of the country is multicultural, and I can’t find the people?” he asked rhetorically, adding: “It’s not just diversity, warm and fuzzy. The clients are clamoring for it. It’s a crisis that we don’t have enough multicultural talent.”

As an incentive for students to attend the forum, Mr. Wolfe Pereira said, one of the sponsors, InteractiveOne, a network of Web sites aimed at African-Americans, “is offering two paid summer internships for summer 2012 for two of the participants.”

If all that fails, the organizers hope that some star power will help lift Advertising Week above the realm of the same-old, same-old. Among the familiar faces scheduled to appear are Andrea Mitchell and Brian Williams of NBC News; Bernie Williams, the former New York Yankees outfielder; and performers like Steve Harvey, Jennifer Hudson, Sarah Jessica Parker, J. B. Smoove (a k a Jerry Brooks) and Justin Timberlake.

Some comparisons between Advertising Week and Fashion Week are made in jest. However, Mr. Scheckner described a feature of the latter that the organizers of the former covet: having all the week’s events at a single site, like Bryant Park or Lincoln Center.

The panels, programs and parties during Advertising Week, by contrast, are divided among multiple locations.

“I think what you’re going to see in 2013,” Mr. Scheckner said, is Advertising Week’s consolidation at a sole location.
97 2011-10-03 Veteran Mexican border crossers present an enormous challenge to American policymakers, because they continue to head north despite deterrents more severe than at any time in recent history....
98 2011-10-03 TEL AVIV (Reuters) — The chip maker Intel has agreed to acquire Telmap, a maker of mobile navigation software based in Israel, Telmap’s chief executive said on Sunday.

Details of the deal were not disclosed, but Israeli media said Intel was paying $300 million to $350 million.

The Telmap chief executive, Oren Nissim, said the deal was expected to close before the end of the year.

Telmap, which offers location-based services to provide details on traffic data and local offerings, expects to post revenue of $33 million in 2011 and be profitable for the second consecutive year.

Telmap will become a wholly owned subsidiary of Intel, which has two plants and four development centers in Israel, and will retain its brand, management and 210 employees.
99 2011-10-03 Ian Rogers, Topspin’s chief executive, says the ability of artists to efficiently market themselves online represents the next major phase of the digital music revolution, after programs like Pro Tools made it possible to record an album on a laptop and iTunes made download sales viable.

“The fundamental premise of the company is, if the production and distribution of music have already been disrupted by the Internet, how is technology going to serve marketing and retail?” said Mr. Rogers, who rides a skateboard and has a tattoo of the logo for NeXT Computer, the company Steven P. Jobs founded after being fired from Apple in the 1980s.

Topspin, which was founded in 2007 and operated by invitation until it opened to wide membership in March, offers bands customizable Web widgets to sell recordings, tickets and merchandise, as well as a detailed back-end accounting system. In July it also began working with the Sundance Institute to distribute independent films. Topspin charges 15 percent of sales plus an annual fee, and has signed up 15,000 acts, fewer than most of its competitors.

But Topspin, whose office in Santa Monica, Calif., is crammed with client memorabilia — a heavy Paul McCartney box set over here, a rack of custom-painted skateboards over there — is said to offer the most technologically advanced direct-to-fan system. And it has developed a specialty of bundling physical goods with downloads.

The company encourages bands to give songs away, wagering that curious fans will come back to buy more lucrative products like T-shirts or deluxe editions that can be combined at various price levels.

The company’s sales data seem to support that philosophy. Even with plenty of $2 videos and $10 posters for sale, the average transaction on Topspin brings in $26; when tickets are involved, the average is $88.

The filmmaker Kevin Smith (“Clerks,” “Red State”), who has an extensive merchandising business, says he believes the service gives artists more control than was ever possible before.

“Topspin helps you understand things that 20 years ago you would have had to rely on people in a large building wearing suits to do for you,” Mr. Smith said. “They don’t run your business for you. They just give you the technology so you can run it yourself.”

Mr. Rogers, 39, who got his start running the Beastie Boys’ fan site in college and was later recruited by the band to work on its nascent Web operation (the group is now one of Topspin’s biggest clients), calls the strategy of combining digital and physical goods “rebundling.”

It is a remedy, he says, to one of the music industry’s most persistent problems: the “unbundling” and subsequent devaluation of the album as a result of consumers’ ability to download a single track rather than the more profitable full CD.

“What the Internet has really allowed is not a move from physical to digital, but consumer choice,” Mr. Rogers said.

For thousands of artists, ranging from acts on major labels to those that handle their business by themselves, direct-to-fan marketing has become essential. Last year, for example, the singer Amanda Palmer employed Bandcamp to release an entire album of Radiohead cover songs featuring the ukulele, letting fans set the price (the minimum was 84 cents, to cover royalties). She made $15,000 in three minutes.

The Pixies had a peculiar situation. The band was famous but without a record label, and since it largely missed the rise of the Internet — it broke up in 1993 and reunited in 2004 — it had no official Web site. After giving away four songs, the group compiled 266,000 e-mail addresses, Mr. Jones said. It used that data for two shows in London last year in which it sold tickets through Topspin and then scanned them at the door using the company’s iPhone app.

“It feels like a totally new way of doing things,” Mr. Jones said.

But there are also some growing concerns in the industry about the reliance on direct-to-fan systems, and about the financial viability of those companies.

Topspin is not yet profitable, Mr. Rogers said, though “we wrote checks for many millions of dollars to artists last year.” And the strongest criticism of Topspin among artists is one that Mr. Rogers readily acknowledges: compared with its competitors, Topspin is complex and can be difficult to learn. He says he is working to address that criticism.

Midem, the organization behind the music industry’s biggest trade fair, two weeks ago began serializing a study called “The Real Cost of Direct to Fan,” which lays out situations in which artists are better off selling items on the road or through traditional retailers.

“It needs to be done carefully,” said David Riley of Good Lizard Media, a digital music consulting firm that produced the report. “There needs to be a proper cost-benefit analysis of what an artist wants to achieve. But if done well and shrewdly, there is no downside.”
100 2011-10-03 ¶CiCi’s Pizza, Coppell, Tex., named the Dallas office of Publicis USA, part of the Publicis Worldwide unit of the Publicis Groupe, as its agency of record. The account, with spending estimated at $26 million, had been handled by Deutsch L.A., which is the Marina del Rey, Calif., office of Deutsch, part of the Lowe & Partners Worldwide division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

¶Lee Doyle, North American chief executive for MEC, New York, part of the GroupM unit of WPP, is stepping down, the agency said, “to take a new direction in his career within GroupM and WPP,” adding that “his new role will be announced in due course.” Mr. Doyle’s duties will be assumed by Charles Courtier, global chief executive at MEC, until a new North American chief executive is named.

¶Patrick Scissons joined Grey Canada, Toronto, part of the Grey unit of the Grey Group, as chief creative officer. He assumes duties from Carl Jones, executive creative director, who recently left. Mr. Scissons had been leading his own agency, Birthplace, Toronto, which is being acquired by, and becoming part of, Grey Canada; financial terms were not disclosed. The Grey Group is owned by WPP.

¶Patrick Hounsell joined Merkle, Columbia, Md., as chief digital officer, a new post. He had most recently been senior vice president and general manager for national media at Razorfish, part of the Publicis Groupe.

¶Allison Werder, executive vice president for strategy and business development at Parade Publications, New York, part of Advance Publications, was promoted to a new post, executive vice president and chief marketing officer, overseeing Parade, Parade Digital and Dash. She will continue to be in charge of digital and business development efforts in addition to her new duties. Also, Stephen Buerger, senior vice president and Midwest advertising director in the Chicago office, was promoted to senior vice president, also overseeing Parade, Parade Digital and Dash. He succeeds Jim Hackett, who became senior vice president for integrated solutions. And Amy Crossman joined Parade as vice president for marketing, reporting to Mr. Buerger; she succeeds Michele Murphy, who left, the company said. Ms. Crossman had most recently been marketing director at Crain’s New York Business, part of Crain Communications.

¶BrandinHand, Santa Monica, Calif., which specializes in mobile marketing, was acquired by FRWD, a digital agency based in Minneapolis. The deal, which calls for BrandinHand to become a subsidiary of FRWD, was made for cash and stock. John Hadl, founder and chief executive at BrandinHand, becomes partner emeritus at FRWD. Seven of the eight employees of BrandinHand will join FRWD.
101 2011-10-03 MADISON, Wis. -- Perhaps the most notable part of Wisconsin's rout of Nebraska was the reaction of its fans. The Badger faithful stormed the field last season after the upset of Ohio State, but they kept their revelry to the stands Saturday night....
102 2011-10-04 Schools in Libya Reopen With New Challenges
103 2011-10-04 Follow along with live updates from Game 4 of the American League divisional series between the Yankees and the Tigers....
104 2011-10-04 Apple needed to compete with Android, so it now has phones that are free and phones that cost $400....
105 2011-10-04 Apple needed to compete with Android, so it now has phones that are free and phones that cost $400....
106 2011-10-04 After a strong start from A.J. Burnett, the Yankees used an offensive onslaught in the eighth inning to stave off elimination, winning 10-1 to force a Game 5 in New York....
107 2011-10-04 Scientific and medical advancements have made life easier over the years, but the stresses and strains that come with population density, technological advancements, 24/7 news and entertainment media, and a redefinition of the family have resulted in a whole new set of challenges. People behave no worse than they used to, but with the pressures of modern life it can be more difficult to stay civil. In this fast-paced society with its multiple demands, it’s all the more important to be intentional about using common courtesies in our everyday interactions.

It’s true that we take a more casual approach to dressing, communicating, and entertaining. But casualness, or informality, doesn’t necessarily equate to rudeness. It’s just as easy to be polite when wearing jeans to a party as when wearing long white gloves to a ball.

Manners by their very nature adapt to the times. While today’s manners may be more situational, tailored to particular circumstances and the expectations of those around us, they remain a combination of common sense, generosity of spirit, and a few specific “rules” that help us interact thoughtfully. And as fluid as manners are, they all rest on the same fundamental principles: respect, consideration, and honesty.

Respect. Respecting other people means recognizing their value as human beings, regardless of their background, race, or creed. It’s demonstrated in all your day-to-day relations—refraining from demeaning others for their ideas and opinions, refusing to laugh at racist or sexist jokes, putting prejudices aside, and staying open-minded. We show respect not just by what we refrain from doing but also by intentional acts, such as being on time, dressing appropriately, or giving our full attention to the person or people we’re with.

Self-respect is just as important as respect for others. A person who respects herself isn’t boastful or pushy but is secure in a way that inspires confidence in others. She values herself regardless of her physical attributes or individual talents, understanding that integrity and character are what really matter.
108 2011-10-04 Touring the South Bronx, and shooting a video, with Amanda M. Burden, the city planning commissioner, and Michael Kimmelman, the New York Times architecture critic....
109 2011-10-04 Touring the South Bronx, and shooting a video, with Amanda M. Burden, the city planning commissioner, and Michael Kimmelman, the New York Times architecture critic....
110 2011-10-04 A behavioral scientist offers a medical metaphor for climate risk....
111 2011-10-04 A behavioral scientist offers a medical metaphor for climate risk....
112 2011-10-04 If Bank of America were to put Countrywide Financial in bankruptcy, bondholders would still be guaranteed to be paid....
113 2011-10-04 If Bank of America were to put Countrywide Financial in bankruptcy, bondholders would still be guaranteed to be paid....
114 2011-10-04 The majority of season-ticket holders will pay less for Mets tickets in 2012....
115 2011-10-04 The majority of season-ticket holders will pay less for Mets tickets in 2012....
116 2011-10-04 Britain got an agreement that it would not be overruled by national governments on over-the-counter derivatives, a market London dominates....
117 2011-10-04 Britain got an agreement that it would not be overruled by national governments on over-the-counter derivatives, a market London dominates....
118 2011-10-04 These heavenly bars have a cookie base and a light, nutty topping....
119 2011-10-04 In this Gotham Extra, Michael Powell walks out of the State House in Trenton, where a certain non-candidate met the press and state cuts have forced a one-third reduction in the police force....
120 2011-10-04 In this Gotham Extra, Michael Powell walks out of the State House in Trenton, where a certain non-candidate met the press and state cuts have forced a one-third reduction in the police force....
121 2011-10-04 The real estate Web site Redfin has backed out of some markets after receiving complaints from multiple listing services and agents about its sales data....
122 2011-10-04 The real estate Web site Redfin has backed out of some markets after receiving complaints from multiple listing services and agents about its sales data....
123 2011-10-04 The European Commission will send a statement of objections to Deutsche Borse and NYSE Euronext, according to a person with direct knowledge....
124 2011-10-04 The European Commission will send a statement of objections to Deutsche Börse and NYSE Euronext, according to a person with direct knowledge....
125 2011-10-04 The Seattle Sounders host the Chicago Fire Tuesday in the final of the Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup....
126 2011-10-04 The Seattle Sounders host the Chicago Fire Tuesday in the final of the Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup....
127 2011-10-04 Updates from Apple’s headquarters, where Timothy D. Cook took the stage to discuss what innovations the company has in mind for the iPhone....
128 2011-10-04 Updates from Apple's headquarters, where Timothy D. Cook is taking the stage to discuss what innovations the company has in mind for the iPhone....
129 2011-10-04 Why did the controlling family accept a lower offer? And why did the board not question that decision?...
130 2011-10-04 Why did the controlling family accept a lower offer? And why did the board not question that decision?...
131 2011-10-04 Samhain was the original ancient name for Halloween, a harvest festival marking the end of summer and a transition to the darker days ahead.  It was called Samhain (Summer’s End) until the 800’s AD when Pope Boniface IV renamed it ‘All Hallow’s Eve’ to coincide with a Christian holiday.  For 2000 years the Celtics were taught by their Druid priests that on October 31st the veil separating the World of the Living from the World of the Dead was at its very thinnest – transparent enough that the living could actually interact with the ghosts of their loved ones and the vengeful spirits of their departed enemies.

And as October 2011 begins, we find ourselves at the very nearest to the World of the Dead that we’ve been since the darkest days of the crash.

There is little separating us from the outright deflationary hell-cycle that monetary policy and optimism had staved off for so long.  The Celtics dressed in costumes on Samhain in the hopes that the evil spirits they feared might not recognize them that night…given our current economic condition, I’m not sure that disguising in costumes would quite do the trick.

The veil between recovery and recession has never been thinner and all the old ghosts of the past have returned to haunt us once again, some of them almost exact replicas of their prior incarnations.  Witness:

Rumors of hedge funds blowing up run rampant through the tape.

Bankruptcy talk for storied franchises like American Airlines and Eastman Kodak now litters the headline ticker.

Confidence is at all-time lows.  We’ve not been this despondent about our leadership and forward-track in all of our recorded history as a society – the Civil War era and Great Depression included.

The certainty of higher taxes is also now taking hold, from the middle class on up.  We know it’s coming no matter who is elected, it’s only a matter of timing and degree.

And the banks – the banks that are still with us after the shotgun mergers of 2008 – they are haunted still by exposure to loans and homes values and other banks and leverage and all of the old bogeymen that once forced investors to rip money away for fear of utter dissolution.  Some of the most “systemic” banks in the market – Goldman ($GS), Citi ($C), Morgan Stanley ($MS), Bank of America ($BAC) – are once again trading at or below their crisis-level lows from 2009.  This after trillions in interest-free money and a two-year period of do-whatever-you-need-to-get-better.  Apparently they needed to get even more too-big and pay even heftier bonuses than ever before, not reduce risk or open up their balance sheets for serious scrutiny.  They’re going to pay for it now, flip on your quote screen.

But those are the devils we know…keep in mind that we have new ghosts this time around, perhaps even scarier ones to contend with in the coming months.

The BRIC miracle is has turned nightmare for investors who plowed in last fall.  Emerging markets that are highly dependent on commodity prices, mining wealth or global manufacturing needs are finding little to cheer about in the spot prices or demand data – and their stock markets are reacting accordingly.  Materials powerhouse countries have been hacked to pieces since the start of the year and on an accelerated basis since the wind-down of QE2 as we can see with a casual glance at the country-specific ETFs.  Both Brazil ($EWZ) and Russia ($RSX) are down more than 30% year-to-date while the Australian market ($EWA) – another “commodities story” – is down a Koala-smashing 19% since January 1.  On the demand side of the emerging markets story things aren’t much better; India ($EPI) is down about 30% so far this year while China ($FXI) has become a New-Year-Low machine, off 27% and counting.

Not to belabor the China point too much, but it is important to understand that they reacted more forcefully to the threat of slowdown when in 2008 they did a stimulus equal to 20% of GDP.  This massive spending thrust was about keeping the Olympic momentum going and they sure did succeed, serving as the lone engine of growth during the dark days when it looked as though the credit crash would never end.  Beijing’s central planners (along with the provincial bureaucracy which subsists on lending and development fees) overbuilt the country to the point that 46% of the Chinese economy is now in “fixed investment” – infrastructure and real estate spending.  This compares to 12% for the United States.  The Chinese are now facing the prospect of having to bail out a huge chunk of these projects that are looking more and more like they were bad investments, this at a time before the Chinese consumer is ready to step up and replace the waning dominance of the export economy that’s gotten them this far.  Lots of people say China is a “complicated story” but a few notable voices are now calling it relatively simple – it is the US just as the Roaring 20’s are cresting.  Boy, I hope they’re wrong.

And of course Europe is the very spookiest of ghosts dancing ’round the harvest bonfire this season.  Playing the role of the Ghost of Lehman this Halloween is the EU Fiscal Union and what’s left of the ECB as a credible institution.  In hindsight, it’s a miracle that something like this was ever even attempted let alone allowed to persist for so long.  Picture the self-satisfaction of the French, backed by the sweat-equity of the German efficiency empire, supporting an epic Mediterranean talent for deception and then topped off with a creme fraiche of Continental haughtiness – then you get to the heart of why this mess is so un-clean-up-able.  The monetary-union-that-wasn’t is a combination of all the worst traits of each of its member states, a 10-car pileup of cultural flaws just begging to be toppled so that the BMW at the bottom of the pack can drive away from the Peugeots and the Fiats with only minor scrapes and scratches.

The Chief Economists at Goldman Sachs are out this morning with their hatchets, they’ve chopped 2012 global growth estimates down to 3.8% this year and only 3.5% for 2012, predicting recession for Germany and France in the same report.  In the meantime, Belgium’s big bank, Dexia, is now on the ropes from Greek exposure, it is receiving the Good Bank/Bad Bank bailout treatment as you read this.

But even with the emerging markets coming apart at the seams and an historic level of disharmony in Europe – a continent that has been literally defined by its inability to get along – it is only when we turn our attention to the US that we feel the true sense of how inescapable a witching season has become.

Unemployment has not improved and has gone from being a cyclical issue to a structural one.  The Fed’s Chariman, who counts “full employment” as one of his organization’s two primary mandates, has essentially thrown up his hands and winked at Congress.  Congress is actually on the verge of slashing spending – certainly not passing the President’s ridiculous “jobs bill” or signing off on any kind of new stimulus.  In other words, the White House, Capitol and Federal Reserve Bank have all been sidelined by each other – I’d call it a “Mexican Standoff” but that would be an insult to the Mexicans, whose own economy is robust enough to have stalled the influx of their skilled labor into our beleaguered workforce for the first time in, well, forever.  See “Better Lives for Mexicans Cut Allure of Going North.”

And even if the politicians weren’t handcuffed by their fear of each other and the coming elections, the people wouldn’t care anyway.  They are protesting in the streets and they are not leaving.  There is no central aim of the Occupy Wall Street protest other than to express hatred and disgust for the banks and the politicians who’ve supported them.  Wall Street protests are erupting across the nation, I think maybe it’s for real this time.

Yesterday the Dow closed down 258 points to 10655, its lowest close since September 2010.  Technically speaking, we’ve knocked on the crucial 1100 support line in the S&P 500 three times since August 8th and the fourth time was the charm, we are now through the lows and in a statistical bear market here in Recoveryland.

On the earnings front, the consensus is for $110 for the S&P 500 in 2012.  Analysts have spent the last eight weeks trimming estimates but only by 2.6%…a joke when you consider that earnings typically fall by 25% to 40% in recession.  The sell-side is cutting the crusts off of their estimate sandwich when they need to be slicing a third off of the loaf.  This will come, grudgingly but inevitably, should GDP growth estimates continue to dwindle.  Next Tuesday we’ll hear from the super-cyclical Alcoa ($AA) to leads things off for the Q3 earnings season, is anyone feeling good about what they might say in terms of go-forward demand?

Some of you may be looking at the all the selling pressure and asking whether or not the stock market is even a good leading indicator for the economy to begin with.  I’ll say that it is a decent leading-to-coincident indicator if you know what you’re looking for.  The thing to keep in mind is that it’s not the big one or two-day drops you have to worry about – the fast sell-offs in 1987 and 1998 were deep but the ended and took place in the context of economic expansion.  For more on this concept, see: “Stock Market Crashes Do Not Predict Recessions“.  No, it is the rolling sell-offs that quietly persist against an apathetic backdrop for weeks that presage major economic trouble ahead, like the early 2001 and early 2008 – markets were down then but they were only on the threshold of the real pain that was to come.

The ECRI has just announced that the US is “tipping into a new recession. And there’s nothing that policy makers can do to head it off.”  The ECRI only tepidly called the 2008 recession and certainly did not do so on a “leading basis” – in fact they spent the first three months of the last recession tiptoeing into it even though they ended up getting it right before most on Wall Street or in the media.  But they typically have it right in the end even if they fail to live up to their claims of a lead-time.

Now there are those who look at the recent data and say that it is only a slowing of growth, not an actual economic contraction.  “So what if year-over-year GDP declines below 2%,” they’ll say.  My response is that they may be right – but they should be aware that every single instance of Y-O-Y GDP growth slipping beneath 2% since 1948 has led to a recession.  Every single time we’ve slowed down to this extent in the last 60 years we’ve gone down to the zero line (11 instances) and into negative territory (10 instances).  The ship is not so easily turned.

Faltering banks, confidence off the cliff, chronic joblessness, paralyzed politicians, slowing growth all over the world, crippling debt coming due at just the worst time…Can we really expect to whistle past this particular graveyard with all these malevolent spirits about?  As we find ourselves face-to-face with the World of the Dead – closer than at any time since the last crisis – are we kidding ourselves that there is a painless resolution up ahead?

The market is saying no.

The action in front of us says it looks like recession has become all but inevitable as the entire globe slows down.  It looks like a bank-related crisis is a foregone conclusion, either here or in Europe.  It looks like we’ve not seen the worst in our stock prices.

It looks like the Season of the Witch.
132 2011-10-04 Deutsche Bank joined a growing list of banks buffeted by the sovereign debt crisis on Tuesday, saying it would not meet its profit target for the year....
133 2011-10-04 Deutsche Bank joined a growing list of banks buffeted by the sovereign debt crisis on Tuesday, saying it would not meet its profit target for the year....
134 2011-10-04 Republicans are using the nation's economic problems as an excuse to pursue the business agenda of eliminating regulation, an economist writes....
135 2011-10-04 Republicans are using the nation's economic problems as an excuse to pursue the business agenda of eliminating regulation, an economist writes....
136 2011-10-04 The Manhattan real estate market remained resilient in the last three months, with prices holding steady and sales volume going up, despite the wild gyrations of the stock market over the summer and continued fears of global economic crisis.

The median sales price for Manhattan apartments held steady, with the city’s largest brokerage firms finding median prices of between $850,000 and $911,333, according to sales reports that will be released on Tuesday. The number of sales during the quarter, however, was up by more than 15 percent compared with the same time last year.

“The prices are boring, but the volume is exciting,” said Pamela Liebman, the chief executive of the Corcoran Group. Her agency’s data showed 3,750 sales marketwide, the highest number since mid-2008, before the market crashed.

Ms. Liebman said the market slowed briefly in early August, after a credit rating agency downgraded the nation’s debt rating and the financial markets took a series of unpredictable swings. “But we’ve become much more used to that type of volatility,” she said. “If that had happened a couple years ago, we would have lost hundreds of deals, but as it was, people paused for a few days and then came right back.”

Diane M. Ramirez, the president of Halstead Property, said she saw the relatively flat market as good news. “What we predicted and actually hoped for was slow and steady recovery,” Ms. Ramirez said. “And that’s what we’re continuing to see.”
137 2011-10-04 A fire that started as workers mixed chemicals at a plant south of Dallas shot flames and huge plumes of smoke into the sky on Monday, forcing schoolchildren and residents to evacuate or take cover indoors to avoid possible exposure to dangerous gases. The fire, at a large complex at a Magnablend facility in Waxahachie, overwhelmed a sprinkler system and consumed a fire truck, but no injuries were reported. Chief David Hudgins of the Waxahachie Fire Department said it was not immediately clear what chemicals had started the fire. About 1,000 people were evacuated but allowed to return to their homes early Monday night. Nicolas Brescia of the Environmental Protection Agency said air quality readings in the city did not require further action. Donald Golden, a Magnablend spokesman, said the company makes about 200 products, including some that are hazardous when ignited. Much of its business centers on energy production, including chemicals used to stimulate oil and gas wells.
138 2011-10-04 The Pittsburgh Penguins placed their star center Sidney Crosby on the injured list Monday, meaning he will have to miss at least the first week of the season. Crosby is continuing to recover from concussionlike symptoms sustained last January. He has been skating with the Penguins since training camp opened but has not been cleared for contact.

The Penguins open the season Thursday at Vancouver. Under the rules, the earliest Crosby could be activated is Oct. 13, when Pittsburgh hosts Washington.
139 2011-10-04 Annual premiums for employer-sponsored health coverage soared by 9 percent for families and 8 percent for individuals this year from 2010, far faster than wages or inflation. Republicans, predictably, blamed health care reform for contributing to the rise. In fact, the reforms accounted for only 1.5 percentage points of the increase this year. The value to millions of Americans who are already getting expanded coverage and benefits is undeniable.

So what is driving up insurance premiums? The main factors, analysts say, were increased medical care costs and higher profits for insurance companies, which charged a lot more in premiums than they paid out for medical services. Both problems are being addressed by the health care reforms. But, clearly, they will require even more vigorous attention.

This latest survey by the Kaiser Family Foundation and the Health Research and Educational Trust found that the average total family premium climbed above $15,000 in 2011, with the worker paying roughly $4,100 and the employer about $10,900. Since the survey started in 1999, worker contributions to premiums have increased 168 percent, while wages have gone up 50 percent.

The two reforms that affected premiums — together making up about one-sixth of the 9 percent premium increase for a family plan — required that parents be allowed to keep children up to age 26 on their policies and that many insurance plans cover preventive services like cancer screening and immunizations at no cost to patients. Some 2.3 million young adults were enrolled on parental policies and 28 million workers (plus their dependents) benefited from preventive care provisions.

The reform law has two provisions that kicked in this year and could help hold down premiums in 2012. Insurers will have to spend at least 80 percent to 85 percent of their premiums on medical care, which will force them to keep the premiums closer to their claim payments. And insurers seeking rate increases of 10 percent or more in the individual and small-group markets must disclose and justify their proposed rates, allowing state regulators an opportunity to reject them or force them down.

The reform law also provides $250 million for grants to help states strengthen their ability to challenge insurers’ rate requests. Only about half the states give insurance commissioners power to veto rates deemed excessive; all should allow regulators to reject unfair increases before they happen.
140 2011-10-04 LUXEMBOURG — Belgium’s finance minister, Didier Reynders, on Monday sought to calm fears about the fate of the Franco-Belgian financial group Dexia amid concerns over its exposure to Greek debt and reports that the bank could be broken up.

Dexia called an emergency board meeting late Monday after a 10 percent drop in its stock price prompted by news that the Greek government would not meet its financial plans this year. In addition, the credit ratings agency Moody’s Investors Service warned that Dexia’s main operating businesses were on review for downgrade.

French and Belgian media reports suggested that Dexia was considering selling some of its profitable assets and creating a bad bank to house its more troubled assets.

After the meeting, Dexia said its board asked Pierre Mariani, its chief executive, to prepare “necessary measures” to solve the bank’s “structural problems,” according to a statement cited by Bloomberg News.

Both the French and Belgian governments own a substantial part of Dexia, which received a 6 billion euro joint bailout when the financial crisis struck in 2008.

“Whether it is Dexia or another, we are following the situation day by day,” Mr. Reynders said in Luxembourg, where he was meeting with other finance ministers.
141 2011-10-04 Apple is expected to introduce a new iPhone with a variety of slick new features, but the product could also get a lift from an old-fashioned distribution deal. Apple has struck a deal with Sprint Nextel to offer the new iPhone to its customers, according to a person with knowledge of the deal who was not authorized to speak about the arrangement.

The agreement could help blunt some of the distribution advantages that have helped propel Google’s Android into more and more smartphones. Until now, Apple phones have been available in the United States only on AT&T and Verizon.

Apple also faces another big challenge in releasing a new iPhone: it has to top itself. It must show it can still deliver enough of the cutting-edge features that have made the company a trend-setter.

“They set the bar,” said Phil Libin, the chief executive of Evernote, a start-up that makes a mobile note-taking app, who said he had no knowledge of Apple’s new phone. “Android and other devices have had to catch up.”

Analysts widely expect the new iPhone to include a faster microprocessor for running applications at a greater speed, along with a more powerful camera. Some have speculated that Apple might finally include big improvements in the voice recognition capabilities of the new phone using technology the company acquired when it bought Siri, a start-up, last year.

Some have also speculated that Apple might introduce more than one phone, including one with fewer new features that could sell for $99 with a carrier contract.

An Apple spokeswoman declined to comment before Tuesday’s event, which is to take place at Apple’s headquarters in Cupertino, Calif.

In the second quarter, handsets running the Android system accounted for 43.4 percent of worldwide smartphone sales, compared with 18.2 percent for Apple, according to the research firm Gartner. During the same period last year, the two companies were roughly neck-and-neck, with Android and Apple holding 17.2 percent and 14.1 percent of the market, respectively.

For both companies, growth in market share has come at the expense of technology laggards like Symbian, the mobile software backed by Nokia, and Research in Motion, maker of the BlackBerry, rather than each other.

Despite its smaller share of the market, Apple earns outsize profits. Thanks to its comparatively healthy profit margins, Apple had about half of the operating profits in the mobile handset business in the first quarter of the year, even though its sales accounted for only 4.9 percent of the phones sold, according to a recent report by the analyst Michael Walkley of Canaccord Genuity.

Apple could get a boost from its new relationship with Sprint, which may have a card up its sleeve to lure customers — its unlimited mobile data plan. That plan allows cellphone users to gorge themselves on streaming media services like Spotify and Netflix, without worrying about accidentally going over the monthly allotment. AT&T and Verizon both have monthly limits on the data its iPhone customers can consume.

Android’s surge in the market means app developers are splitting more of their time between the competing phone systems. Mr. Novak, the engineer at GroupMe, who also helps organize a monthly gathering in New York for Android developers, said Apple would need to impress developers, as it did with the iPhone 4, if the company hoped to persuade them to stay committed to the iPhone.

“It really comes down to the wow factor,” Mr. Novak said. “Without that, it leaves the door wide open for whatever announcements Google plans to make.”

Adam Goldstein, a founder of a flight search engine called Hipmunk, said the company decided to release a version of its mobile application for Android earlier this month after watching the popularity of the platform grow.

“We definitely did the iPhone first,” he said. “But requests kept coming in from the Android side.”

Mr. Goldstein said the company was dividing its programming resources equally between Android and Apple phones.
142 2011-10-04 Scope 3 measures the emissions linked to the “value chain” of a company’s products as a whole. The life cycle emissions of individual products, including Scope 3 emissions, can be estimated using the second tool.

The 2004 corporate standard has taken hold as the dominant accounting methodology for greenhouse gases. The Carbon Disclosure Project, a nonprofit group that uses investor leverage to pressure corporations to disclosure their emissions, says that most of the corporations that report to the project use the GHG protocol template.

While the standards are voluntary, Pankaj Bhatia, director of the GHG Protocol, the joint venture of the two nonprofits that produced the standards, predicted that companies would adopt them because it helped them hone their business strategies. “Armed with these new standards, companies can see the full picture of their emissions,” he said.

Advocates of the standards suggest that the mere act of measuring greenhouse gas emissions — and having a meaningful way of comparing that output with that of competitors — has encouraged companies to manage and reduce what they emit.

Even with the new tools, however, it will not be an easy task for companies to measure Scope 3 emissions with much specificity. Many smaller subcontractors in developing nations that manufacture or provide components to larger entities have no useful way of measuring their energy use.

In such cases, the protocol has allowed for the use of local industry-specific energy use averages.

In developing the new standards, the institute and the business council worked with more than 60 corporations to test the standards and solicit feedback. Dan Pettit, associate director of sustainability for Kraft Foods, said that his company learned while working with the new protocols that Scope 3 emissions — coming from activities like farming — accounted for 90 percent of the overall impact.

The company is now trying to work with a few high-emission areas for reductions, such as helping cocoa producers in Ghana increase crop yields while minimizing use of carbon-intensive fertilizer, he said.

Kraft has a financial incentive to make progress on that front, Mr. Pettit said. “Think of carbon as waste — somewhere there is inefficiency.”

Linda Fisher, the chief sustainability officer for the chemical company DuPont, said that a product’s estimated carbon footprint could be a useful sales tool.

DuPont’s businesses have “very much seen their ability to track and measure carbon as useful to our customers,” she said.
143 2011-10-04 Marriott International, Hilton Worldwide and Starwood Hotels and Resorts are among the hotel management companies that are starting or have recently introduced initiatives to welcome Chinese travelers.

“We think we’re looking at about a 50 percent growth on an annual basis, and that will compound,” said Christie Hicks, head of global sales for Starwood. In addition to conference groups and trade show delegates, Ms. Hicks said, Chinese companies increasingly view the United States as an attractive destination for incentive travel. “When they look for that aspirational destination, North America is one that continues to grow.” Hawaii is one popular destination, she added.

In July, Starwood added touches intended to appeal to Chinese travelers at hotels in 19 cities around the world frequented by Chinese travelers. Bilingual staff members will be available to assist travelers with a limited grasp of English. Slippers and tea kettles are put in the guest rooms of Chinese visitors and are available upon request. Hotel and local sightseeing information is translated into Chinese. And restaurant menus were expanded to include Chinese fare like rice dishes and congee, a kind of rice porridge often eaten for breakfast.

Hotel companies are also betting that China’s growing domestic travel industry will increase bookings in the United States. “We’re expanding within China, so the recognition of the Hilton name was becoming increasingly strong,” said Andrew Flack, vice president of global brand marketing for Hilton Hotels & Resorts.

In August, Hilton introduced a welcome program in 51 hotels in 33 global destinations for Chinese travelers, including 22 hotels in the United States. Like Starwood’s program, Hilton’s has bilingual employees available to assist Chinese visitors, and places slippers and tea kettles in guest rooms.

Travelers also get a welcome letter in Chinese, access to Chinese-language television stations and a Chinese-style breakfast with items like congee and fried rice.

“Chinese government group travel has been taking place for many years, but what’s adding to that is individual business travelers that we’re more familiar with in the West,” Mr. Flack said. “We’re seeing more Chinese delegates attending more international association conferences.”

David Townshend, senior vice president for global sales at Marriott International, said that so far this year, “We’ve seen a 50 percent increase in the business, which is obviously a strong indicator not only of the potential but clearly of the future.” Within some Marriott brands, the growth is even more pronounced.

At the extended-stay TownePlace Suites brand, the bookings are up 112 percent over the same time, reflecting the longer duration of stays for Chinese travelers.

Mr. Townshend said Marriott tested a Chinese-style breakfast including fried rice, pickled vegetables and congee in a few markets and plans to introduce it across its brands at the end of the month.

American travelers may be accustomed to a cup of coffee, perhaps accompanied by a room-temperature pastry, for breakfast. But the morning meal is a much more important one in Chinese culture, said Greta Kotler, chief global development officer at the Center for Association Leadership, or ASAE, an organization for managers of trade and professional associations.

“Breakfast in China is a very nutritious, green meal,” she said. “It’s very much more of a vegetable-rich breakfast than ours might be.”

Joseph Chi, president of Shine Tours, who helped coordinate the Amway China trip, said the company had detailed requirements for what it considered a “suitable breakfast” for delegates.

Hotel companies expect their efforts to connect with Chinese visitors will improve their standing among domestic travelers, as well. “I think we definitely have research that shows that customers look positively on hotel companies that are sensitive to the needs of travelers from multiple countries,” said Mr. Flack, of Hilton.

“There’s a sophistication that goes with that and a worldliness that talks to a high level of hospitality.”

After all, at the end of a long day, an American guest also might like to ease into a pair of slippers or make a cup of tea.
144 2011-10-04 Everybody gets so much exposure that the need for approval trumps the fashion imperative to be different. You know this is happening because many big houses have absolutely no qualms about giving us another pleated dress with a dropped waist.

That’s why Stella McCartney had such a good show on Monday. And she, of all people, knows something about media exposure as a daughter of famous parents. But the difference may be, in part, that Ms. McCartney, 40, is also the mother of four young children, so she can’t be so overly invested in the work, in people-pleasing, that the designs lose all perspective and pleasure.

Whether or not this is a conscious effort, it is a successful one because her clothes are among the most individual looking in Paris. Her main idea was to play with a wave effect, giving a curled edge to a jacket or silk dresses in white, royal blue and black. The one-shoulder body-fitting styles looked sporty, but the pastry swirls gave them a lingerie essence. Later, Ms. McCartney used the same contouring technique with inky stretch paisleys and foulard checks, adding white embroidery to finish swirled edges for an almost 3-D effect.

Ms. McCartney also does not have that designer problem of reducing a woman’s life to one or two moments: work, a fancy party. She also makes outfits that strongly hint of home, like a piped pajama shirt worn with a matching foulard-dot pantsuit, or a loose sweater or easy all-in-one to wear to a casual dinner. And they are done with a slightly wacky sense of humor that one assumes reflects her own life and those of the people on her staff.

Riccardo Tisci also had undulating shapes in his Givenchy show, with allusions to the sea and diving gear in the form of stretch pants with zips and dripping bits of fabric. What appealed about this collection is that though it was groomed to the hilt, with slick little skirts in fish skin, it had a blunt quality of aggression, from those chesty ruffles to the silver shark’s tooth pendants.

For her first Chloé collection, Clare Waight Keller focused on pleated silk dresses with sunray striped effects or checked inlays. She offered some floral embroidered white cotton, paired with a sleeveless cream blazer or cute shorts, but the puny amount of cotton was disappointing, and too much of the collection seemed cut on a straight line, so that the shapes were repetitive. Ms. Keller has bumped up the Chloé woman’s age — not a bad thing in itself, but you want to see her be a little more curious, and a lot less conventionally straight, in her next collections.
145 2011-10-04 The study, which several experts said added significant heft to previous research while still having some limitations, has prompted the to convene a meeting in January to consider if evidence is now strong enough to advise women that the method may increase their risk of getting or transmitting H.I.V.

“We are going to be re-evaluating W.H.O.’s clinical recommendations on contraceptive use,” said Mary Lyn Gaffield, an epidemiologist in the World Health Organization’s department of reproductive health and research. Before the meeting, scientists will review research concerning hormonal contraceptives and women’s risk of acquiring H.I.V., transmitting it to men, and the possibility (not examined in the new study) that hormonal contraceptives accelerate H.I.V.’s severity in infected women.

“We want to make sure that we warn when there is a real need to warn, but at the same time we don’t want to come up with a hasty judgment that would have far-reaching severe consequences for the sexual and reproductive health of women,” she said. “This is a very difficult dilemma.”

The study, led by researchers at the and published in The Lancet Infectious Diseases, involved 3,800 couples in , , , , , and . In each couple, either the man or the woman was already infected with H.I.V. Researchers followed most couples for two years, had them report their contraception methods, and tracked whether the uninfected partner contracted H.I.V. from the infected partner, said Dr. Jared Baeten, an author and an epidemiologist and infectious disease specialist.

The research was presented at an international AIDS conference this summer, but has now gained traction, scientists said, with publication in a major peer-reviewed journal.

The manufacturer of the branded version of the injectable, Depo-Provera, is , which declined to comment on the study, saying officials had not yet read it. The study’s authors said the injectables used by the African women were probably generic versions.

The study found that women using hormonal contraception became infected at a rate of 6.61 per 100 person-years, compared with 3.78 for those not using that method. Transmission of H.I.V. to men occurred at a rate of 2.61 per 100 person-years for women using hormonal contraception compared with 1.51 for those who did not.

While at least two other rigorous studies have found that injectable contraceptives increase the risk of women’s acquiring H.I.V., the new research has some strengths over previous work, said Charles Morrison, senior director of clinical sciences at FHI 360, a nonprofit organization whose work includes researching the intersection of family planning and H.I.V.

Those strengths include the fact that researchers followed couples and were therefore able to track transmission of H.I.V. to both men and women. Dr. Morrison said only one other less rigorous study had looked at whether hormonal contraception increased the risk of infected women’s transmitting the virus to men.

“This is a good study, and I think it does add some important evidence,” said Dr. Morrison, who wrote a commentary accompanying the Lancet article.

Although the study has limitations, including its use of data not originally intended to determine the link between contraceptive use and H.I.V., “I think this does raise the suspicion” that injectable contraceptives could increase transmission risk, he said.

Why that would occur is unclear. The researchers recorded use, essentially excluding the possibility that increased infection occurred because couples using contraceptives were less likely to use condoms.

The progestin in injectable contraceptives appears to have a physiological effect, scientists said. Renee Heffron, an epidemiologist and co-author of the study, said research examining whether the hormone changes genital tissue or vaginal mucous had been inconclusive. Studies in macaques found that progestin thins vaginal tissue, she said, “but studies among women didn’t show the same amount of thinning.”

It could be that progestin causes “immunologic changes in the vagina and cervix” or could increase the H.I.V.’s “ability to replicate,” Dr. Morrison said.

At one point, the researchers measured the concentration of H.I.V. in infected women’s genital fluid, finding “there was more H.I.V. in the genital fluid of those using hormonal contraception than those who aren’t,” Dr. Baeten said, a possible reason men might have increased risk of infection from hormonal contraceptive users. Those women “don’t have more H.I.V. in their blood,” he said.

The researchers also found that oral contraceptives appeared to increase risk of H.I.V. infection and transmission, but the number of pill users in the study was too small to be considered statistically significant, the authors said.

Previous research on the pill has been more mixed than with injectables, which could have a greater impact because they involve a strong dose meant to last for three months, Dr. Baeten said.

In another troubling finding, results from the same study, published separately, showed that pregnancy also doubled the risk of women’s contracting H.l.V. and of infected women’s transmitting it to men. That may partly be due to increased unprotected sex, but could also relate to hormones, researchers said.

But there are no simple solutions, the authors acknowledge. Any warning against such a popular contraceptive method may not only increase complications from pregnancy but increase H.I.V. transmission, too, since pregnancy itself may raise a woman’s risk of H.I.V. infection.

First, the researchers and others say, greater emphasis should be placed on condom use along with hormonal methods.

Some experts, like Dr. Morrison, favor a randomized controlled trial for more definitive proof, but others question how to “randomize women who may have strong preferences about their contraception,” he added.

Dr. Ludo Lavreys, an epidemiologist who led one of the first studies to link injectable contraceptives to increased H.I.V. risk, said intrauterine devices, implants and other methods should be explored and expanded. “Before you stop” recommending injectables, he said, “you have to offer them something else.”
146 2011-10-04 Shares in American Airlines’ parent company tumbled 33 percent on Monday on fears that the airline could be forced into bankruptcy as a slowing economy reduced demand for seats on its planes.

The sell-off reflected investors’ increasing nervousness that American Airlines, with high debt levels and high labor costs, might be too weak to weather another economic downturn. Its competitors, meanwhile, have consolidated and strengthened their share of the airline market.

The decline on Monday was the steepest drop for American’s parent, the AMR Corporation, in a decade, and it precipitated a general sell-off in airline stocks throughout the day. AMR shares closed at $1.98 after setting off repeated automatic trading halts meant to prevent widespread losses. Still, Delta Air Lines and United Continental Holdings both fell more than 11 percent, and US Airways lost nearly 16 percent.

Even before Monday’s drop, American’s shares were down 62 percent since the start of the year. The severity of the decline, which sent the stock price to its lowest level since 2003, forced the carrier to dismiss speculation that it might be considering a prepackaged bankruptcy.

“Regarding rumors and speculation about a court-supervised restructuring, that is certainly not our goal or our preference,” Andrew Backover, a company spokesman, said in a statement. “We need to improve our results, and we are keenly focused as we work to achieve that.”
147 2011-10-04 Chief Justice Burger was, Justice Stevens wrote, not very careful in assigning majority opinions.

“A lot of people assumed he was making strategic assignments and that sort of thing,” Justice Stevens said. “I think he was just not as careful a scholar as he should have been, and he didn’t do a careful job keeping track of exactly how everyone voted and the reasons why.

“Burger would sometimes assign an opinion to someone who really didn’t have a majority on every issue,” Justice Stevens continued, leading to confusion, inefficiency and frustration.

Chief Justice Burger was strategic in one sense, though. Alert to the attention paid to First Amendment decisions, he would assign opinions ruling in favor of free speech to himself, hoping for good press.

“If you look through his First Amendment cases, I think you’ll find that when the First Amendment claim was upheld, he might well write it,” Justice Stevens said. “But where it was denied, Byron White would get it.” Justice Byron R. White, who served from 1962 to 1993, did indeed gain a reputation of hostility to the First Amendment.

Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, who led the court from 1986 to 2005, gets better reviews in the book. Justice Stevens called him able and fair, if at times a little peremptory, cutting off lawyers the moment their time at the Supreme Court lectern expired. And Justice Stevens did not approve of the chief justice’s decision to add gold stripes to the sleeves of his robes, a move that struck many as frivolous or pompous or both.

Chief Justice Roberts, by contrast, combines the best qualities of his predecessors, Justice Stevens said.

“He’s generally across the board a very competent and personable guy,” Justice Stevens said. “Burger was a fine representative of the court — handsome guy, and he spoke well, and he could be very gracious. I really think John Roberts combines all those virtues — he’s very, very smart, and he’s very, very fair.

“The chief is conscious of granting more time to advocates,” Justice Stevens said of Chief Justice Roberts’s courtesy in occasionally allowing lawyers extra time to respond to the barrage of questions from the justices. “He didn’t put stripes on his robe.”

In his years on the Roberts court, Justice Stevens was the most senior justice, which meant he had the power to assign opinions when he was in the majority and the chief justice was not. He admitted to a little strategic behavior of his own.

“Basically it was who would do the best job writing it,” he said. But he was also savvy enough to know that keeping an interesting case to himself meant that he would avoid being assigned a boring and complicated one from the same batch. “I have to confess,” he said, “that now and then I would take an assignment because I wanted not to be eligible for something that I didn’t want to write.”

And then there was the important task of locking in the crucial vote of Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, the current court’s swing justice. “There were cases I think that I may have asked Tony to write,” Justice Stevens said, “because I thought if he wrote it out himself he was more sure to stick to his first vote.”

A majority is important, Justice Stevens said; unanimity less so. He said the court erred in moving too slowly in the Brown case in order to speak with one voice. The court ended up instructing the states to move toward integration with “all deliberate speed” in a 1955 sequel.

“A more decisive, prompt decision might have avoided some of the resistance that developed,” Justice Stevens said. “I don’t think the world would have come to an end if there had been members of the court who disagreed.”

Justice Stevens said he spends much of the year in Florida now, but he keeps up. “I remain very much interested in the court,” he said. “I’ve read all their opinions, which I wasn’t sure I would do.”

He added that he is not eager to serve on appeals court panels, a common practice among retired members of the court, who also include Justices Sandra Day O’Connor and David H. Souter. “David and Sandra have enjoyed it,” Justice Stevens said. “I kind of like not having to read a lot of briefs and get reversed by my former colleagues.”
148 2011-10-04 With the Pop Group something similar happened. The audience, most of which had surely never seen a Pop Group show — they played a handful of dates in Europe last year after a three-decade break — gazed hungrily at Mark Stewart, the band’s tall, manic, vivid singer. He threw himself around, howling things like “We Are All Prostitutes,” a jabbing, five-alarm song from 1979: “Department stores are our new cathedrals/ Our cars are martyrs to the cause.” And then he nudged them, politely: “We’re not really a sit-down band, you know.” Blam: dancing in the aisles. Can you both study cultural history and participate in a re-enactment of it? If your favorite art trains you to be skeptical, can you credit a reunited, middle-age Pop Group or Swans? Can you allow yourself to dance to it?

Where there are long memories, there are long attention spans. Oneida, from Brooklyn, has played three all-day shows before, two of them at Tomorrow’s festivals. Its gig on Saturday took place at Asbury Lanes, a bowling alley and rock club a few blocks from the waterfront. It was eight hours long, full of improvising and repetition and kept changing course as other musicians joined in, some from the festival and some not, sometimes taking the lead and moving the music elsewhere.

Festivals need through lines, and Oneida’s occupation of the bowling alley created one, at least for a day. It wasn’t just clearer and stronger than the last Oneida marathon I saw; it was some of the best music I heard all weekend, a tense node of a comparatively slack festival. Adrian Utley and Geoff Barrow of Portishead sat in for a while, on guitar and drums. So did Ches Smith and Shahzad Ismaily from Marc Ribot’s band Ceramic Dog, drumming in mesmerizing doubled grooves; the free-improvising singer Alex Drewchin and powerhouse drummer Greg Fox from Guardian Alien; Shinji Masuko, guitarist from the Japanese bands DMBQ and the Boredoms, making graceful, spacey shapes; James McNew of Yo La Tengo, playing bass for hours, keeping the bottom of the music strong and level.

The festival’s biggest space, the Asbury Park Convention Hall, is a cavernous echo trap, and sound often became a problem. Various bands approached the problem differently. On Friday night Will Oldham, a k a Bonnie Prince Billy, filled it with voices: he and his excellent, close-listening band created four-part vocal harmonies, warming the room. Shellac, also on Friday, bounced its acid guitar and trebly bass sounds off the walls, making a thin, cold band feel thinner and colder. (It played Sunday over at the bowling alley, which was a different story: you could get inside the music.)

Ultramagnetic MC’s, the New York hip-hop group founded in 1984, made the room an oblique party on Saturday evening, its lead rapper Kool Keith keeping his flow constant and swinging; he was a great presence, strange and alert, a gold cap and scarf on his head. Public Enemy, performing its album “Fear of a Black Planet” with a live band, riled the crowd on Sunday with polyphonic shouting, slogans and self-congratulation: a riot of context.

By contrast, Portishead re-enacted its precise, dynamic, almost barren arrangements: Mr. Utley’s surf-guitar lines surrounded by silence, Mr. Barrow’s D.J. scratching, Beth Gibbons’s narrow singing. She uses vibrato to connote weakness or trauma, and the sound around it, from organ to guitar to electronic sounds, rippled sympathetically. (They were all joined by Public Enemy’s Chuck D on the Portishead song “Machine Gun,” which itself was a re-enactment: the same collaboration happened at the Primavera Sound festival in Barcelona in 2008.)

And Jeff Mangum, playing his old songs alone in a chair with old acoustic guitars, seemed the anti-Mark Stewart: shy and self-protective. He’s only 40, but you can imagine retirement agreeing with him. (He was given two slots, on Friday and Sunday, and still has more work to do for the festival: he will be the headliner and guest programmer of the December edition in Minehead, England.) His songs, at least from the Neutral Milk Hotel records, are charismatically surreal and naïve, pressing forward in earnest yelps; he sat and strummed their dirt-simple accompaniment with nervous precision. He inhabited the songs, though not the physical environment.

The fans gave high-grade sympathy, even singing in polite unison, but he would not go on their trip. “We’ve missed you, Jeff!” a woman yelled during his second show on Sunday. “Well, we’re here now, aren’t we?” he responded, heading into the next song.
149 2011-10-04 BEIJING — A young Tibetan monk set himself on fire Monday in a remote western town to protest Chinese policies, the fourth monk from Kirti Monastery to self-immolate this year, according to a Tibet advocacy group based in London.

The group, Free Tibet, said in a news release that the monk, Kalsang, set himself ablaze at 2 p.m. in a vegetable market in the town of Aba, known in Tibetan as Ngaba. Kalsang was holding a picture of the Dalai Lama, Tibet’s exiled religious leader, at the time and called for religious freedom, the group said. Security officers extinguished the flames. the group said, but the monk’s condition was unclear.

Free Tibet did not specify the sources of its information. There was no immediate comment from Chinese officials, and no mention of the self-immolation in China’s state-run press.

The first self-immolation this year at Kirti, a monastery that was at the heart of local protests against the authorities in 2008, occurred on March 16, when Phuntsog, a 20-year-old monk, killed himself. On Sept. 26, two other young monks at Kirti set themselves on fire, but were believed at the time to have survived. One of the two monks, Lobsang Kalsang, was a brother of Phuntsog.

Prior to this year, the only known instance of a monk setting himself on fire in recent times occurred at Kirti in Feb. 2009. The monk, Tapey, survived after his flames were extinguished by security officers.

A local court gave three monks long prison sentences in August and September for what it said was their roles in the death of Phuntsog. One of the monks was an uncle of Phuntsog.
150 2011-10-04 Babies born prematurely face an increased risk of death in young adulthood, a new study has found, and the more premature the birth, the greater the risk.

The study’s authors found that the increase in risk was independent of sex, birth order, maternal age and birth weight.

The study, published Sept. 21 in The Journal of the American Medical Association, used Swedish birth records, which are nearly 100 percent complete. There were data for 674,820 births, of which 4.1 percent were preterm, defined as less than 37 weeks’ gestation. Researchers at Stanford followed the subjects from the 1970s until they were 29 to 36 years old.

Even babies born late preterm — 34 to 36 weeks — had a 53 percent increased relative risk of death from ages 1 to 5 and a 31 percent increased risk after age 18, compared with full-term babies. But gestational age was not associated with more risk from age 6 to 17, perhaps because some fatal diseases take longer to grow.

“Even though we found an increased relative risk, the absolute risks are less than 1 per 1,000 per year,” said the lead author, Dr. Casey Crump, an assistant professor of medicine at Stanford.

Preterm birth was associated with death before age 36 from congenital anomalies and from respiratory, heart and endocrine disorders, but not from neurological diseases, cancer or injury.
151 2011-10-04 A prostate biopsy more than doubles the risk of being hospitalized for infections and other medical problems within the following month, a new study reports.

Researchers examined Medicare records of 17,472 men, average age 73, who had prostate biopsies and those of 134,977 matched controls selected on a random day. Then the scientists compared hospitalization rates in the two groups over the next 30 days. Among the controls, 2.9 percent were hospitalized; the rate among the biopsied patients was 6.9 percent. Excluding men hospitalized for prostate cancer treatment made no difference in the results — it was biopsy alone, not treatment, that led to hospitalization.

In every prostate biopsy, there is a risk of introducing bacteria from the rectum into the prostate, and resistant strains can cause serious problems. The authors estimate that a randomized trial would find that one in every 24 biopsies results in a hospitalization within one month.

“Patients having a biopsy should have a full discussion about recent antibiotic use, recent hospitalization and anything else that might put them at risk for having resistant organisms,” said the lead author, Dr. Stacy Loeb, an instructor in urology at New York University. “But if you are an otherwise healthy man who would benefit from treatment, you shouldn’t be afraid to have a biopsy.”

The report appears in the November issue of The Journal of Urology.
152 2011-10-04 A new study has found that living alone may raise the risk for alcohol-related death.

Researchers at the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health studied deaths before and after a reduction in the price of alcohol in Finland, and tracked the fatalities attributable to alcohol abuse — liver disease, alcohol poisoning, alcohol-related violence or accidents, among others. The results appear in the September issue of PLoS Medicine.

Among married or cohabiting people, the rate of death from alcohol-related causes was about the same before and after the price reduction. Before the reduction, men living alone were 3.7 times as likely to die of liver disease, the most common alcohol-caused illness, as men with partners. After the reduction, men living alone were 4.9 times as likely to die of liver disease.

Before the reduction, the risk of dying of liver disease for women who lived alone was 1.7 times that of women who lived with others. After the reduction, the risk was 2.4 times higher.

“Some people abuse alcohol because they are living alone, and some live alone because they drink too much,” said Kimmo Herttua, the lead author. “Both explanations are accurate.”

The researchers said the study’s conclusions may not be applicable to other populations and cultures.
153 2011-10-04 Captain Ahab had Moby-Dick; Linus van Pelt had the Great Pumpkin; and, in the five years since ''Arrested Development'' has gone off the air, fans of that underdog Fox comedy series have spent their lives pining for a film adaptation that would fu...
154 2011-10-04 Watch the latest video at video.foxnews.com     One traditional element of the ''Monday Night Football'' broadcast on ESPN was missing from Monday night's Indianapolis-Tampa Bay game: Hank Williams Jr.'s musical opening that asks, ''Are you ready ...
155 2011-10-05 Steven P. Jobs: His Life, His Companies, His Products

Steven P. Jobs, who died Oct. 5, 2011 at 56, co-founded Apple, popularized the personal computer, made music accessible and revolutionized the cellphone industry. Mr. Jobs was ousted from his own company but returned to build it into the most valuable technology company in the world.
156 2011-10-05 Medical associations and other groups say that a state environmental impact statement does not adequately consider impacts from pollution and soil contamination....
157 2011-10-05 Medical associations and other groups say that a state environmental impact statement does not adequately consider impacts from pollution and soil contamination....
158 2011-10-05 Apple and Facebook have much in common, and a lot could come from collaboration between the two - if they could just find a way to meet....
159 2011-10-05 Mr. Jobs had stepped down from the chief executive role at Apple in late August, saying he could no longer fulfill his duties, and became chairman....
160 2011-10-05 Steven P. Jobs, the co-founder and former chief executive of Apple, has died....
161 2011-10-05 Apple and Facebook have much in common, and a lot could come from collaboration between the two - if they could just find a way to meet....
162 2011-10-05 Why Apple's Siri personal assistant software points toward the future of the company's business and perhaps to the future of search....
163 2011-10-05 Why Apple's Siri personal assistant software points toward the future of the company's business and perhaps to the future of search....
164 2011-10-05 The Rangers begin their N.H.L season on Thursday, the Islanders and Devils on Saturday....
165 2011-10-05 The Rangers begin their N.H.L season on Thursday, the Islanders and Devils on Saturday....
166 2011-10-05 Mitt Romney's appearance at a conference of social conservatives is drawing attention because of another guest....
167 2011-10-05 Mitt Romney's appearance at a conference of social conservatives is drawing attention because of another guest....
168 2011-10-05 Speculation about potential deals for Yahoo, Akamai Technologies and Research in Motion were enough to spur their share prices to big gains....
169 2011-10-05 Speculation about potential deals for Yahoo, Akamai Technologies and Research in Motion were enough to spur their share prices to big gains....
170 2011-10-05 We're sorry. The page or resource you are looking for cannot be found. Please enter a key word in the search field above or go to the NYSE Homepage
171 2011-10-05 The hot hatch costs roughly $10,000 more than the 200-horsepower GTI....
172 2011-10-05 The hot hatch costs roughly $10,000 more than the 200-horsepower GTI....
173 2011-10-05 Ladbrokes, the British bookmaking chain, has added Bob Dylan's name to the list of leading contenders for the Nobel Prize in literature, which will be announced Thursday....
174 2011-10-05 Ladbrokes, the British bookmaking chain, has added Bob Dylan's name to the list of leading contenders for the Nobel Prize in literature, which will be announced Thursday....
175 2011-10-05 The actress Donna Lynne Champlin describes the days before the opening of “Jane Austen’s Pride and Prejudice, a Musical.”...
176 2011-10-05 The New York Times asked the actress Donna Lynne Champlin, who is also a new mother, to be a guest blogger as she rehearsed for "Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice, a Musical," part of the New York Musical Theater Festival....
177 2011-10-05 Riskalyze aims to help you evaluate your risk tolerance for investments....
178 2011-10-05 Riskalyze aims to help you evaluate your risk tolerance for investments....
179 2011-10-05 Along with the New York modernist landmark, 65 other sites were placed on the 2102 World Monuments Watch, a list of endangered cultural heritage sites across the globe....
180 2011-10-05 Along with the New York modernist landmark, 65 other sites were placed on the 2102 World Monuments Watch, a list of endangered cultural heritage sites across the globe....
181 2011-10-05 The frustration that Billy Beane felt when listening to his scouts talking about baseball players is the frustration that a political scientist feels when listening to many campaign consultants, journalists, and political commentators talk about p...
182 2011-10-05 The frustration that Billy Beane felt when listening to his scouts talking about baseball players is the frustration that a political scientist feels when listening to many campaign consultants, journalists, and political commentators talk about p...
183 2011-10-05 I know what to do; "we" don't....
184 2011-10-05 I know what to do; "we" don't....
185 2011-10-05 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
186 2011-10-05 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
187 2011-10-05 In The New York Times TV Ratings Game, 12.3 percent of the participants correctly predicted "The Playboy Club" on NBC would be canceled after three episodes....
188 2011-10-05 In The New York Times TV Ratings Game, 12.3 percent of the participants correctly predicted "The Playboy Club" on NBC would be canceled after three episodes....
189 2011-10-05 DETROIT — Two at-bats, five innings apart, encapsulate Derek Jeter at 37.

A two-run double in the third inning — a ball center fielder Austin Jackson nearly caught — was vintage Jeter, a big hit at a critical time off a pitcher who usually handles him. The Yankees had to beat Detroit in American League division series Game 4 on Tuesday night to send the series back to New York, and Jeter’s hit gave A. J. Burnett a 2-0 lead and a chance to breathe after a stressful bases-loaded jam in the first.

But in the eighth, with the bases loaded and the Yankees in the middle of a six-run rally to wrap up a 10-1 victory, the lefty Daniel Schlereth struck out Jeter on a curveball in the dirt.

It was the seventh strikeout by Jeter in the series, and if that sounds like a lot, you are right. Jeter has never struck out this much in a division series, and only once has he struck out as often in any postseason series — eight against the Mets in the 2000 World Series, when he also hit .409 with two home runs and was the most valuable player.

One thing that is certain: After a season where Jeter rebounded from a slow start to hit .297, he can still hit a mistake. That is what Jeter did in the third with runners at first and second, facing the 22-year-old Tigers right-hander Rick Porcello, whom Jeter was hitless against in 10 at-bats. Porcello left a 1-0 slider up and over the plate.

“I was just looking for a pitch to hit,” Jeter said. “I haven’t had too much success off him, I saw on the scoreboard actually, right before the pitch. I don’t know why I looked up there, but I saw it.

“He’s been throwing the ball extremely well for them the last month or so, I believe. Fortunately for me, he left one up. I’m sure it was a mistake on his part.”
190 2011-10-05 And New Jersey’s cities remain aggressively forgotten by the governor.

In Trenton on Friday, I stepped out of a State House hot with presidential fever, crossed State Street and walked a block north. A gentleman offered to sell me a nickel bag of pot. I apologized that the timing was all wrong, and continued down a tenement block to Calhoun Street.

There, seven young black men commanded a corner in their best gang-color strut, with that melancholy adolescent admixture of menace and fear. A mother with a daughter and a tiny woman pushing a laundry cart gave them wide berth.

Trenton’s mayor, Tony Mack, recently let go one-third of his police force. He knows this is demented public policy, but state aid cuts have left him with a $27 million hole in his budget.

Mr. Mack occupies a City Hall where the white marble is stained green and crumbling. Weeds are conducting hostile takeovers of flower beds. “It’s a pretty dismal picture right now,” he said.

The violent crime rate in Trenton is twice that of New York City’s, and the New Jersey city has, per capita, a third fewer police officers. How will that play out?

“Well, I mean, I hope it won’t have a drastic effect,” the mayor replied.

Is the governor any help?

Mr. Mack’s voice falls. “There’s dialogue, but revenue hasn’t followed our conversation,” he said.

Does that bother you?

“The governor is governing,” he said, “according to his thought processes.”

New Jersey’s politics rarely are more dispiriting than when you search for a mayor with outrage to spare.

Camden’s mayor all but hides in her office, for fear she will utter a word that displeases her political boss, George E. Norcross III, a Democrat who has cut handsome deals with Mr. Christie.

Newark’s mayor, Cory A. Booker, is the Stanford-and-Yale-educated darling of the hedge fund set, and a considerable step up from the wily old crook who preceded him. But his staff’s strangled silence about state cuts is impressive. Newark sits in Essex County, which is run by Joseph N. DiVincenzo Jr., a Democrat who also plays well with the governor, perhaps a presidential candidate someday.

The state is hamstrung by these county political warlords.

Jon S. Corzine, a Democrat who was governor, cut deals with these fellows, and Mr. Christie might argue that he simply plays the game with more panache. Although, given that Mr. Christie was a United States attorney charged with investigating the generous levels of corruption here, you might hike an eyebrow at his explanation.

In 2002, just before the primary election, United States Attorney Christie issued a letter stating that Mr. DiVincenzo, who was a candidate, was not under federal investigation; this highly unusual move reportedly left Mr. DiVincenzo greatly touched.

These bosses could perhaps prevail upon Governor Christie to open the spigots and let aid flow into their cities. But help for now remains a dry streambed.

Last week in Trenton, thugs shot up a popular restaurant. Another fellow emptied a semiautomatic pistol into parked cars. The police collected 61 bullet shells.

You walk Paul Avenue here, and in the shadow of a sycamore, a middle-age fellow wearing shorts swings his 5-iron to laughs from a porch full of gangbangers.

Barbara Cameron, a wiry, 30-year resident, peers out her door. “The bangers don’t pull junk on this block, but don’t go around the corner, no, no,” she said.

Ask about the governor’s presidential reverie, and she shakes her head.

“You could just say we’re forgotten here,” she said, “but don’t we live in New Jersey, too?”
191 2011-10-05 University of Missouri curators voted to consider leaving the Big 12 for another conference. The governing board’s members agreed unanimously to give the Missouri chancellor Brady Deaton authority to look elsewhere.

Speculation has centered on a possible move to the Southeastern Conference, which recently agreed to accept Texas A&M from the Big 12 starting next year. The Big 12 has also lost Nebraska and Colorado to other major conferences.
192 2011-10-05 The security agencies have become a mammoth secrets factory, staffed today by 4.2 million people who hold security clearances — a total disclosed for the first time last month, and far higher than even the biggest previous estimates. Their incentives are so lopsided in favor of secrecy that a new report proposes a surprising remedy: cash prizes for government workers who challenge improper classification.

The secrecy compulsion often merely makes the government look silly, as when obvious facts were excised from recent memoirs by former intelligence officers. But it can also hinder public debate of some of government’s most hotly contested actions.

Long before Friday’s drone strike, officials say, lawyers at the Central Intelligence Agency, the Justice Department and the White House painstakingly considered the legal justification for what amounted to the execution of an American citizen without trial. But even since the strike, officials have been willing to give only a brief summary of the government’s reasoning, refusing to make public the classified written opinion of the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel, the authoritative arbiter of the law.

Steven Aftergood of the Federation of American Scientists, who has tracked government classification policies for two decades, said such secrecy about a disputed policy is “a kind of self-inflicted autism that cuts decision makers off from the input they need, both from inside the government and outside.” After last week’s strike, he added, “any justification for withholding the O.L.C. memo went away.”

The same closed-mouth approach has long applied to the drone campaign in Pakistan, which is old news but remains a top-secret covert action program. In June, at David H. Petraeus’s Senate confirmation hearing to become C.I.A. director, Senator Roy D. Blunt, Republican of Missouri, told Mr. Petraeus, the retiring Army general: “I want to talk a little bit about drones for a minute and the use of drones.”

There was a murmur of concern; C.I.A drones, though common knowledge, are unmentionable by government officials in public. Mr. Petraeus deftly dodged the issue by speaking of the military’s drones in Afghanistan, whose existence is not classified.

Administration officials said the drones are an especially delicate subject today because they are entangled with the United States’ complex relations with the governments of Pakistan and Yemen. But the same cannot be said of the Justice Department’s decade-old legal opinion justifying the National Security Agency’s program of wiretapping without warrants.

Matthew M. Aid, an intelligence historian, asked for that opinion two years ago under the Freedom of Information Act. In August, he finally got a few sentences of the 21-page opinion, written by John C. Yoo of the Bush Justice Department. The rest was blanked out and remains secret.

Nor is the secrecy limited to counterterrorism. Jeffrey Richelson, an author of books on intelligence, asked the C.I.A. last year for any reports by its Center on Climate Change and National Security, which had drawn criticism from Republicans in Congress. The agency said last month that all such material “is currently and properly classified and must be denied in its entirety.”

In a report on overclassification to be released on Wednesday, the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University’s law school concludes that unnecessary classification has jeopardized national security by hindering information sharing inside the government, and corroded democratic government by stifling debate.

The report finds that the thousands of officials who classify information err on the side of secrecy, to play it safe or to avoid public scrutiny of policies. Among the remedies the report proposes, in addition to $50 or $100 prizes for successfully challenging a secrecy ruling, is requiring officials to explain in writing why they are classifying a document and asking agency inspectors general to perform spot audits and punish improper classification.

The Obama administration’s record on transparency is mixed; it has set a record for prosecuting leaks of classified information to the news media but has also moved to reverse the tide of secrets. In December 2009, Mr. Obama ordered agencies to update their rules to avoid overclassification, and Mr. Aftergood said there were glimmers of progress.

For instance, he said, the Defense Department has canceled some 82 outdated “classification guides,” written instructions on what should be secret. That turns out to be only 4 percent of the department’s classification guides, he said, but the review is not over.

“It’s movement,” Mr. Aftergood said. “Instead of the perennial growth of the classification system, it’s shrinkage. It’s a start.”
193 2011-10-05 A United Nations office said Tuesday that it was deeply worried by anti-Roma demonstrations in Bulgaria. Thousands of people have rallied since Sept. 23 to protest government handling of economic, social and ethnic problems. “The hate speech that has been fueling the anti-Roma protests is of great concern,” Rupert Colville, spokesman for the United Nations agency, the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, said in Geneva.
194 2011-10-05 Fears of Another Recession on Both Sides of the Atlantic
195 2011-10-05 Alabama is a step from executing Cory Maples for a reason so grievously wrong that the case argued Tuesday at the Supreme Court should leave no doubt why the death penalty should be abolished. Besides being barbaric, case after case is rife with constitutional defects.

Mr. Maples was convicted of capital murder because he had incompetent trial lawyers, who admitted that they were “stumbling around in the dark.” He was then wrongly denied the chance to even raise the claim of ineffectiveness of counsel on appeal because of a missed court deadline — for which he was utterly blameless.

Alabama insisted that he had lost his right to appeal in state court because of this mistake and, as a result, he could not appeal in federal court either. Inexcusably, the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit agreed. Justice Samuel Alito Jr. asked the state’s attorney: “Mr. Maples has lost his right to appeal through no fault of his own, through a series of very unusual and unfortunate circumstances. Now, when his attorneys moved to file an out-of-time appeal, why wouldn’t you just consent to that?”

The zealotry of the state’s lawyers, Justice Alito and other justices suggested, compounded the undeniable misconduct of lawyers for Mr. Maples, who barely mounted a defense. Two pro bono appellate lawyers from Sullivan & Cromwell worked on Mr. Maples’s postconviction petition for review. But they left the firm without notifying the state court, the clerk’s office or Mr. Maples.

When the state trial court dismissed the petition, two notices went to the firm’s mailroom. Unopened, the notices went back to the court clerk, one marked “Return to Sender — Left Firm.” The clerk had the lawyers’ home phone numbers and addresses but did not try to reach either one. Instead, he simply put the returned letters in an office drawer. He contacted only Mr. Maples’s local lawyer who had no real role in the case. The deadline to appeal passed without Mr. Maples knowing about it.

A former chief justice of the Alabama Supreme Court and other state bar leaders wrote in a brief, “Alabama’s capital punishment system is broken.” It would be grotesquely unjust for Mr. Maples to bear the consequences for the mistake that embodies this breakdown. The justices must order the federal review he seeks.
196 2011-10-05 “I saw Letterman’s Top 10 list. I thought, you know, probably 8 out of the 10 were really funny,” he said, referring to a list David Letterman recited last week of the top 10 things that would be different if Mr. Christie were president. Most of the jokes played on the governor’s weight.

“Their job is to be funny, and if one of the things they want to make fun of is my weight, then, you know, it’s fair game,” he said.

“I’m a public figure,” he said, adding, “All I care about is that they actually are funny, so that I can at least laugh about it while they’re mocking me.”

But Mr. Christie made it clear that he was quite irritated by pundits who suggested that his weight would pose a challenge in a presidential bid.

“They further stigmatize people in a way that is really irrelevant to people’s ability to do a particular job,” he said. “Those are the people that we should really look down upon.”

Mr. Christie did not name those who had provoked his ire, but several commentators had raised the question of whether his weight would be a negative in a presidential campaign, and whether it might suggest to some voters some personal failing that reflected on his ability to lead. Eugene Robinson, a Washington Post columnist, drew the most attention for a column in which he discussed Mr. Christie’s asthma and the increased health care costs attributed to the nation’s obesity epidemic and advised Mr. Christie to eat “a salad and take a walk.”

Mr. Christie, 49, has acknowledged struggling with his weight, which has gone up and down, for many years. In 2009, when he was running against Gov. Jon S. Corzine, he was depicted in Corzine campaign ads and Web videos in an unflattering way. One slow-motion video showed Mr. Christie getting out of an S.U.V. while a voiceover described him as “throwing his weight around” to avoid parking tickets.

In an interview on a CNN talk show with Piers Morgan in June, Mr. Christie said he felt guilty about his weight.

“I’m really struggling, been struggling for a long time with it,” he said, “and I know that it would be better for my kids if I got it more under control.”

Mr. Christie suggested that he had sought help, but he also declined to make excuses, saying, “I eat too much — I mean, it’s not a complicated thing.”

And in July, after he was briefly hospitalized for asthma, he acknowledged that his weight had probably aggravated his respiratory problems, saying, “if I weighed less, I’d be healthier.”

But, as he showed at the news conference on Tuesday, he maintains a sense of humor about it. He said when he missed some of the comedians’ sketches about his weight, his teenage son, Andrew, would cheerfully show them to him on his computer. “So, he’s been grounded,” he joked.

Turning serious, he said: “I’m not self-conscious about it, I’m self-aware. And, you know, it is what it is.”
197 2011-10-05 Despite alarming obesity rates among school-age children and a state requirement that all students get some level of structured exercise every week, many New York City schools do not provide physical education, or do not provide it as frequently as they should, according to an audit released on Tuesday by the city comptroller.

None of the 31 elementary schools throughout the city that officials visited — of about 700 total — were in full compliance with the state guidelines on physical education, the audit found.

It also found that the city’s Department of Education had not filed physical education plans with the state since 1982, in spite of a state recommendation that the plans be reviewed and updated every seven years. In response, officials in the department said they were working on a new plan, though its final draft is not expected until next year.

“The D.O.E. is failing gym,” the comptroller, John C. Liu, said.

Education Department officials said in the audit that they did not monitor whether students were getting as much exercise as they should in school, and that it was each principal’s responsibility to make sure the requirements were met, much as it is the principal’s role to supervise compliance in other instructional areas.

The audit pointed out that while students were required to take state tests in math, English and other subjects, there was no similar mechanism to monitor the schools’ physical education programs.
198 2011-10-05 Likewise, the assassination on Sept. 20 in Kabul of , the head of Afghanistan’s peace council, dominated the news and reopened dangerous fissures between the country’s Dari-speaking north and the Pashtun south, in a single calculated blow. The new Taliban do not aspire to kill a lot of people, it seems, just a few in the right places and in positions of power.

The Rabbani assassination not only demonstrated the insurgents’ rejection of the peace process, but it also reminded people of their ability to shape the next chapter in the country’s history as the Americans prepare to leave. Similarly, the Taliban have sought to remake their image this year as a way of positioning themselves to play a prominent role in Afghanistan’s future. It is a two-track strategy.

Interviews with dozens of Afghans suggest that throughout the country the Taliban have married locally tailored terrorist campaigns with new flexibility on issues like education and business development.

The combination plays on the uncertainty gnawing at Afghans about the looming American withdrawal, while making the most of the insurgency’s limited resources. The aim is to undermine the Afghan government by making people question whether it can protect them, while trying to project the image of a group that is more open to the world than when the Taliban ruled the country in the 1990s.

For now, especially in ethnic Pashtun areas of the country, the Taliban, who are also ethnic Pashtuns, appear to be achieving their goal of making the future seems up for grabs.

“The morale in Kandahar, in Oruzgan, in Helmand and in Kabul of the ordinary civilian was at the lowest level we’ve seen throughout July,” said Ahmad Nader Nadery, the deputy director of the Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission. “I’ve never seen that much anxiety, fear and concern in ordinary Afghans and in some of the government officials.

“People say, first, the ability of the Afghan government to reach out and to build on the already existing security arrangements is minimal, and they point to the bigger crisis the government is in, and in addition they see that the international community withdrawal has started,” he said.

Certainly, while NATO troops are in Afghanistan the Taliban cannot enforce their ideas — but with the transition under way, no one doubts that the Western forces are leaving. So while NATO insists that the Taliban are losing physical ground, insurgents may be gaining psychological space.

“Their 2011 spring-summer military campaign has not materialized the way they predicted, because they are under unprecedented pressure,” said Lt. Col. Jimmie E. Cummings Jr., a spokesman for the NATO headquarters. The Taliban have been “prevented from regaining the momentum” they had before the troop increase, he said.

NATO also sees less support from the civilian population for the Taliban. “We saw that after the fighters had left for their sanctuaries in the winter, they returned back to communities who no longer supported them,” Colonel Cummings said. “They lost their safe houses, I.E.D. factories, weapons caches and freedom of movement.” I.E.D. stands for improvised explosive device, usually a roadside bomb.

NATO commanders concede that spectacular attacks, like the one on the American Embassy, are “I.O. victories” — meaning information operation — said Gen. , commanding general for NATO forces in Afghanistan. They resist equating that with any larger gains, though privately some officers concede that the Taliban’s ability to switch cellphones off and on is another such victory.

Diplomats are hoping that the Taliban’s turn to more psychological methods could be a precursor to peace talks, but they also admit it could be a clever strategy to conserve their forces until the West withdraws more troops.

“We have hurt them, but I am not sure how much we’ve hurt them,” , the ambassador to Afghanistan, said in August. “And I’m not sure we’re going to know for a while how much we’ve hurt them.” This could “ultimately be positive,” Mr. Crocker said, citing the reasoning of Mr. Karzai. “This is what Karzai would describe as the Afghan Taliban: recognizing that their previous form of government did not win hearts and minds and they are shifting to deal with the population again, and actually that would bring them closer to a dialogue with the government.”

Others view it more as the Taliban’s positioning themselves to become the chief power in a number of areas of the country, once the bulk of NATO forces leave. A longtime Western observer of Taliban tactics said the insurgents “are moving into their own hold-and-build phase; they are prepositioning for 2014.”

Just about all NATO combat forces are scheduled for withdrawal by the end of 2014, leaving Afghan security forces in control. So far, the Afghans have demonstrated a limited ability to fight on their own. With that in mind, many Afghans are hedging their bets and keeping avenues open to the Taliban because they believe that the government may not protect them once NATO leaves.

Wardak Province, which borders Kabul, is one place that seems up for grabs. It is also where in much of the province the cellphones go down for 13 hours daily. The Taliban view the cutoffs as a line of defense, according to Taliban commanders and spokesmen. When the phones are off, informants cannot call in Taliban locations to American forces who might carry out raids, and the Americans cannot use listening devices to track the location of insurgents.

“Our main goal is to degrade the enemy’s capability in tracking down our mujahedeen,” said Zabiullah Mujahid, the Taliban’s spokesman for eastern and northern Afghanistan.

But a broader effect is to remind the population that the Taliban, not the government, are in control.

Hajji Mohammad Hazrat Janan, head of the provincial council in Wardak, summed up the situation: “In those areas where Taliban have their direct or indirect control, they demand that the telephone towers be turned off at night from 5 p.m. to 8 a.m. So we know they are here.

“There are several reasons for attacking the cellphone towers, but here the locals are hopeless,” he said. “Where should they go and complain? Who should they go to and complain? The government? Innocent people get arrested and get killed by the government, and no one cares about them, so the cellphone towers are very small problems here.”

The Taliban turn off the phones by threatening to bomb or burn down the towers. It costs the phone companies $200,000 to $250,000 to repair a tower. The Taliban often threaten any workman who comes to restore one.

In some cases, most of a province’s phones may be turned off from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m.; in others, the signal may be off 20 hours a day. In some provinces, like Zabul, there is no phone service outside the provincial capital, Qalat, and there it is limited to five hours a day. A handful of provinces, generally those that are more stable, may have only one or two districts where the phones are off in the evening, and the rest have 24-hour service.

NATO has been helping in the construction of cell towers by the Afghan wireless network, on military bases where they would be protected ultimately by the Afghan security forces. So far the number of these towers that are working is relatively small.

“In the last 12 months we had some incidents such as destruction of telephone towers by bombing them,” said Asadullah Hamidi, the governor’s spokesman in Kapisa Province, northeast of Kabul, where he said three cell towers were destroyed in the two districts where the Taliban were active.

“The government is trying to resolve this issue, but still we have many problems that we cannot overcome very quickly,” he said, adding that it was not safe for repair teams to enter the areas to rebuild the towers.

A manager for Etisalat, one of the four major cellphone providers in Afghanistan, who asked that his name not be used because he feared retribution, said the company was under pressure from the Taliban to turn off the signal in Kandahar, one of the three largest urban areas of the country.

“The Taliban strongly threaten us if we don’t turn off signal in Kandahar city,” the manager said. “They said: ‘You are equal to the Americans. The actions we take against Americans, we will take against you. Your employees will be abducted, killed, and the towers will be burned.’ ”

“Meanwhile, the government says you should not turn off the signal in Kandahar city,” he added. “They said, ‘We can protect the sites in the city,’ but we don’t believe the government will protect the towers.”

Another benefit of the cellphone campaign for the Taliban is that it does not risk civilians’ lives, which fits with the Taliban’s new push to recast their image.

Apparently in an effort to appear more open, , the Taliban leader, promised in a message in August, at the end of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, that when the Taliban regained power they would be inclusive to Afghans of all ethnicities, friendly to all countries and eager to develop the economy.

Afghanistan has “rich mines and high potential for energy resources,” he said. Then he added in an faintly utopian vein, “We can make in these sectors in conditions of peace and stability and wrangle ourselves from the tentacles of poverty, unemployment and ignorance.”

Professionals and businessmen will be “encouraged,” Mullah Omar said. There was no mention of women in the lengthy message, which was translated by the -based SITE monitoring service, which tracks jihadist communications.

Mr. Mujahid, the Taliban spokesman, said education should be opened to both boys and girls, as long as it is imbued with Islamic values, reversing the Taliban’s pre-2001 policies that barred girls from school and encouraged boys to study only the Koran.

The newfound support for education is hardly uniform. In a number of areas the Taliban still intimidate teachers and even execute them, but elsewhere they seem to be trying to find a curriculum they can support.

A prominent former Taliban leader who lives in Kabul, Mullah Abdul Salam Zaeef, who has maintained contact with the Taliban, has, along with several other former Taliban members and others, started a school in Kabul for boys and girls — in separate buildings — that teaches the basics: reading, math, English, computer science and religion.

Mullah Zaeef describes it as an “Islamic education” with Islamic values and modern knowledge. “The Taliban now are more interested in Islamic education; they are using technology,” he said, alluding to the movement’s adept use of the Internet, including Web sites, accounts and .

“We want to provide a symbol of Islamic education,” he said. “But modern — but totally, 100 percent Islamic.”
199 2011-10-05 The slowing global economy has led to declining demand for oil in Europe and the United States and has curbed consumption growth in China and other developing countries.

Gasoline consumption in the United States was down 2.5 percent in September compared to the same period a year ago, according to a MasterCard Spending Pulse survey. The survey has shown declines of 2 to 3 percent in the four-week moving averages of gasoline consumption every week since the week ending Aug. 5, reflecting a decline in economic activity.

Oil prices have also fallen in part because Europe’s financial crisis has weakened the region’s currency, the euro. Oil is denominated in dollars, so it becomes cheaper to buy in dollars when the greenback is stronger.

Oil supplies around the world remain tight, but they have eased, too, in recent months.

With the Libyan civil war winding down, exports of oil have started up again in recent days, and several European oil companies have returned to work in onshore and offshore fields. As much as a half-million barrels a day of high-quality crude could return to the market by the end of the year. Iraqi production is also slowly recovering.

As a rule of thumb, economists say a $10 decline in the price of a barrel of oil increases economic growth 0.2 to 0.3 percentage points, helping many businesses dependent on oil, like airlines and makers of plastics and fertilizers. Every dime shaved off the price of a gallon of gas can translate into an annual savings of $120 for the typical household that consumes 1,200 gallons a year.

But until the last couple of weeks, gasoline prices have not slumped as sharply as oil.

Part of that is because of a quirk of the American market. The main benchmark oil quoted in the United States, West Texas Intermediate, has fallen much more sharply than Brent crude, closing Tuesday at $75.67 a barrel, down $1.94.

Normally, W.T.I. and Brent have diverged in price by only a couple of dollars. But this year the gulf between the two has surged to $20 or more as a glut of W.T.I. built up at the Cushing, Okla., storage terminal, where W.T.I. contracts are settled.

Most Americans pay for gasoline that is pegged to Brent prices, not W.T.I. prices, and Brent prices have remained resiliently high.

“W.T.I. continues to capture headlines but has little to do with what Americans pay for fuel,” said Tom Kloza, chief oil analyst at the Oil Price Information Service. “Brent is the relevant number for drivers.”

Tuesday’s average retail price per gallon of gasoline of $3.41 is still roughly 70 cents above a year ago and only about 15 percent below the year’s high of $3.98 on May 5.

Mr. Kloza predicted that gasoline prices would continue to fall to around $3 in the coming months. “That will be the launching pad for 2012, and we will overreact in the spring and prices will flirt with $4 again,” he added, since oil and gasoline prices normally rise as the summer driving season approaches.
200 2011-10-05 “It really resonated with us at Mattel,” said Lori Pantel, vice president for girls marketing at Mattel, who heard the women doing a radio interview with Mr. Seacrest. “We liked their solution-based approach to what was becoming a serious problem in American culture.”

The partnership is a good fit for both sides. For Mattel, it offers a chance to strengthen the Monster High brand, which embraces a gang of imperfect teenagers and their freaky flaws. “It’s amazing how quickly our fans have engaged with our brand,” Ms. Pantel said. “They tell us, ‘Thank you for making a doll and stories about not being perfect.’ ”

With the Kind Campaign, Mattel can add depth to those stories. The Monster High brand already includes the dolls, a clothing line, a series of books, a TV special and a Web site, which features animated webisodes that have been viewed more than 80 million times.

For Kind Campaign creators, the partnership offers an opportunity to tap into that Monster High fan base. The two women meet thousands of girls each year on their tours, but with Monster High, they can reach millions more.

“People think we have such a large staff, but it’s been a struggle,” Ms. Parsekian said. “Reaching a million girls can take a lifetime.”

As part of the collaboration, Ms. Parsekian and Ms. Thompson were “monsterfied” and appear in a webisode to teach the students of Monster High to respect one another. For the webisode, Mattel executives were eager to replicate an actual Kind Campaign assembly, Ms. Thompson said, including the “truth booth,” a type of confessional the campaign uses for girls to speak privately to the camera.

“They have been great about listening to our experiences and what girls are going through,” Ms. Thompson said.

The webisode appears on the Monster High Web site, and fans in select cities got a chance to see it in theater when the Kind Campaign kicked off its most recent national tour.

To observe Bullying Prevention Month in October, Mattel is sponsoring community events in three markets that include the webisode, a screening of “Finding Kind” and a forum moderated by Ms. Parsekian and Ms. Thompson. The first event was on Oct. 1 in Santa Monica, Calif., to be followed by events on Oct. 13 in Seattle and Oct. 15 in Atlanta.

Mattel would not disclose its marketing costs for the partnership, but Ms. Pantel said it was important for the company to invest in the content and stories that are the core of the Monster High brand.

“We balance profit with a sense of social responsibility,” she said. “I don’t see any reason why we can’t reach both goals simultaneously.”

The creators of the Kind Campaign said they were not concerned about collaborating with a corporate sponsor because they shared similar messages of diversity and respect.

“For any grass-roots organization, corporate involvement can be taboo,” Ms. Thompson said. “We wouldn’t get involved in any partnership that didn’t feel right.”
201 2011-10-05 In separate statements, Bank of New York Mellon vigorously denied any wrongdoing. It claimed that the United States attorney's accusations were based on "flawed analysis" of its role as a principal in the foreign exchange market, and said the attorney generals' lawsuit was an example of "prosecutorial overreach." The bank said it was confident that it had provided competitive and attractive foreign exchange rates to its customers.

Still, bank officials recognize the impact that the drumbeat of bad publicity has on their brand. The bank's newly installed chairman and chief executive, Gerald L. Hassell, has said he will be pragmatic about resolving any suits.

Mr. Schneiderman’s lawsuit charges that the bank guaranteed that customers would receive the most competitive or attractive rates available on any given trading day. In reality, the lawsuit says, the Bank of New York Mellon provided the opposite: the worst or nearly the worst of the rates available to the bank. Then it earned nearly $2 billion — or as much as 75 percent of its foreign exchange revenue — by pocketing the difference, the suit contends.

The New York attorney general’s action comes after similar moves by authorities in , , and three other states that are looking into the foreign exchange practices of the Bank of New York Mellon and one of its main competitors, the . The and Justice Department are also in the middle of investigations, according to corporate filings from the .

The inquiries began almost two years ago when a group of whistle-blowers made up of plaintiffs’ lawyers and Harry M. Markopolos, the financial investigator who first sounded the alarm about ’s , sought out the New York state attorney general’s office to bring lawsuits against the bank.

But by taking advantage of the powerful New York state securities law known as the Martin Act, Mr. Schneiderman has turned it into a national case. The lawsuit seeks to recover damages incurred not only by the New York pension funds, but also by dozens of government and private investors across the country.

It is not the first time Mr. Schneiderman has squared off against the Bank of New York Mellon. He recently moved to block a proposed $8.5 million settlement involving the bank and the over troubled pools issued by . The suit accuses the Bank of New York Mellon of fraud in its role as trustee overseeing the investment pools, a claim the bank has denied.

Mr. Schneiderman has not shied away from fights with other big banks. In the continuing settlement talks with the nation’s largest servicers, Mr. Schneiderman stepped down from the lead committee of attorneys general after making it clear that he would not sign a broad release that would allow the banks to avoid liability for an array of issues. His office is now conducting its own investigation.

Mr. Bharara brought his lawsuit against Bank of New York Mellon under the Financial Institutional Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act, a law that gives federal prosecutors the right to seek civil penalties for banking-related violations. Congress passed the law in 1989 in the wake of the savings-and-loan crisis, giving the government a civil prosecutorial tool with a lower burden of proof than federal criminal statutes.

This year, Mr. Bharara’s office used another law, the False Claims Act, to file a complaint against , claiming that one of its units had lied about the quality of government-backed mortgage loans it underwrote. Deutsche Bank has denied the claims.
202 2011-10-05 “The black market in the removal and illegal transplant of human organs to others for the sole purpose of profit is an exploitation of the human condition in its most basic form,” the prosecutor, Jonathan Ratel, said. “It is the cruel harvest of the human person.”

The seven defendants sitting in the courtroom are tied to the private Medicus Clinic in a rundown neighborhood of Pristina. Five are medical personnel, one is the owner’s son, who ran the clinic, and another is a senior official at Kosovo’s Health Ministry, who is accused of issuing an illegal “invitation letter” for the victims. They have been charged with trafficking in persons, organized crime, unlawful exercise of medical activity and abuse of office.

The Medicus case, the prosecution said, is part of a “much larger organization engaged in the trafficking of humans and the removal and transplant of human organs for sale in several countries.”

The court planned to hear the testimony of two protected witnesses who prosecutors said had been recruited to sell their organs and subsequently received threats against testifying.

The case has been connected with an inquiry by the Council of Europe released this January, which found that a criminal group of Kosovo Liberation Army fighters had executed Serbian and Albanian prisoners and sold their organs on the international black market. The report said that the so-called Drenica Group was led by Hashim Thaci, the current prime minister of Kosovo.

Mr. Thaci has denied the accusations and has said he is ready to cooperate with any investigation.

The Council of Europe report, which was led by Dick Marty, a Swiss senator, said the organ-trafficking it documented was closely related to the case of the Medicus Clinic.

But “out of respect” for the judicial proceedings in the Medicus case, the report said, “we feel obliged at this moment to refrain from publishing our findings in this regard.”

Neither the indictment nor the arguments heard on Tuesday made any reference to the allegations of the Marty report nor the Drenica Group.

In August, John Clint Williamson, a former ambassador at large for war crimes issues for the U.S. State Department, was appointed to head a Eulex special investigative task force to investigate the allegations in the Marty report.

Linn Slattengren, the defense lawyer for one defendant, Lutfi Dervishi, said the Marty report was “without basis” and that the current trial was “part of a larger political agenda” of countries like Russia and Serbia, which he said sought to drive a wedge between E.U. members and between the European Union and the United States by discrediting the Kosovo government.

All organ transplantation is illegal in Kosovo. Mr. Slattengren said his client was trying to help save the lives of some 150 Kosovars on dialysis. Foreign travel is prohibitively expensive for most Kosovars. “There is no evidence that any of the defendants received one cent from this alleged crime,” Mr. Slattengren told the court in response to the prosecutor’s opening statement.

According to the indictment, the man who performed the transplants and who was the mastermind of the organization was a Turkish doctor, Yusuf Sonmez, who by his own account has performed more than 2,400 organ transplants. Interpol has circulated an international notice for his arrest, but Turkey has no extradition treaty with Kosovo.
203 2011-10-05 Credit: Corentin Fohlen for The New York Times
204 2011-10-05 In recent weeks there has been much discussion about how to judge America’s human rights record in the decade after 9/11, and the balance between civil liberties and security.

Could things have been worse? No doubt. We did not, for example, experience anything on the scale of the Japanese-American internment during World War II, and the government backed off some of its more Orwellian plans in the face of public opposition, including a huge database of personal information chillingly entitled the Total Information Awareness program.

But we should not underestimate the damage that has been done to our values, our reputation and the rule of law in the past decade.

The response to 9/11 included torture, extraordinary rendition, prolonged detention without charges or trial and secret imprisonment. Those grave abuses are an indelible part of our human rights legacy, even if they primarily occurred at Guantánamo and other overseas sites.

As recent events show, the government claims the unreviewable right to kill American citizens far from any battlefield based on uncertain standards and secret evidence.

Thousands of Americans now find themselves on government watch lists with no meaningful way to challenge their designation or have their names removed.
205 2011-10-05 Credit: Corentin Fohlen for The New York Times
206 2011-10-05 A downturn in Europe, if it happens, could help tip America back into recession and would undoubtedly ricochet around the world. Europe’s are among the most interconnected in the world, and is the world’s second-largest reserve currency after .

The 17 nations that share the euro together account for about one-fifth of global output. And emerging markets that are important customers for European exports, like and , are beginning to retrench.

“We are the epicenter of this global crisis,” , the president of the , said on Tuesday at the .

A growing chorus of analysts now predict that Europe is heading for an outright recession. “The is like a fungus on the economy,” said Jörg Krämer, the chief economist at Commerzbank. “I thought it would be just a slowdown,” he said. “But I have changed my mind.”

predicted Tuesday that both Germany and France would slip into recession, although other forecasts are less grim.

Already, the euro zone economy has slowed to essentially zero growth. It could stay in a slump, many economists say, at least through next spring. If that happens, revenue is likely to fall and unemployment, already high, is expected to rise, making it even more difficult for Europe to address the sovereign debt crisis and protect its shaky banks.

In a sign of how quickly the ground is shifting, the European Central Bank might lower interest rates on Thursday — just a few months after it started raising them in what is now seen as a misguided effort to stem incipient inflation.

Philippe Leydier, a French businessman, had been feeling more upbeat until this summer, when orders for his company’s corrugated boxes suddenly began to slide. Orders fell further last month, as auto parts makers, electrical engineering firms, farmers and other industries reduced production.

“The euro crisis and the financial crisis linked to the debt of European countries is serious,” said Mr. Leydier, whose box and paper manufacturing firm, Emin Leydier, in , often provides an early signal of seismic shifts in economic activity. “European governments need to find a solution — and fast.”

In , which has the euro zone’s third-largest economy, after those of Germany and France, a 45 billion euro austerity program aimed at reducing debt has many worried about a recession. On Tuesday, the ratings agency downgraded Italian government bonds by three notches, to A2 from Aa2, and kept a negative outlook on the rating.

Paolo Bastianello, the managing director of Marly’s, an Italian clothing retailer, is increasingly discouraged.

At the start of the year, Mr. Bastianello was more optimistic that Europe would escape its troubles and that the government might seriously tackle Italy’s problems. “But the turbulence of the markets and the uncertainty about this abnormal mass of public debt just scare people away from buying,” he said.

Not everyone is so pessimistic. Some German executives say sales remain healthy, at least so far. “We don’t see any impact on our business,” said Roland Busch, a member of the management board of Siemens, the electronics and engineering giant based in .

“The economy is cooling down but not more than that,” said Mr. Busch, who oversees a unit that supplies traffic control systems, streetcars and other products for public works.

Expecting demand for urban infrastructure improvements to grow, Siemens plans to add about 150 people over the next two years to its 850 employees at its complex in that makes light-rail cars.

Bucking the trend almost everywhere else in the developed world, unemployment in Germany continues to fall, and there are shortages of skilled workers in several important sectors.

Jens Weidmann, who runs Germany’s central bank and serves on the executive board of the European Central Bank, predicted last week that the nation would hit “a soft patch” but escape recession.

Commerzbank predicts German growth will slow almost to zero in the fourth quarter of 2011, but not decline. At best, though, it expects Germany to grow by no more than 1 percent in 2012.

The is a little more optimistic, predicting growth of 1.3 percent next year in Germany after a healthy 2.7 percent this year.

But the I.M.F. recently acknowledged that it, too, had overestimated the rate of Europe’s recovery. It now forecasts that growth in the euro zone will slide to 1.1 percent in 2012, after a 1.6 percent gain this year. In Spain, where tens of thousands of protestors have called for the government to ease its austerity plan, the I.M.F. expects growth to pick up to 1.1 percent next year from 0.8 percent this year.

Still, unemployment in Spain remains at 20 percent, and youth joblessness is nearly twice that rate. , the American pharmaceutical giant, said last week it would cut 220 jobs.

The economy is worse in Portugal, which is operating under a bailout agreement with the European Union and the I.M.F. The I.M.F. warned the new prime minister, Pedro Passos Coelho, that still needed to find an additional 1 billion euros in budget savings. But further austerity may only deepen the downturn, with Portugal’s economy expected to fall by 1.8 percent this year and 2.3 percent in 2012.

João Figueiredo, the owner of a small ship repair yard in Lisbon, expects his first annual loss since 2002. “There are now many clients who are late in their payments and whose money I will probably never see,” he said.

The worldwide dimension of the financial crisis, Mr. Figueiredo added, made the outcome even more uncertain. “We’re now in the middle of a crisis that started in American real estate and then crossed over to Europe, and it seems really nobody has any idea where this will go next and for how long.”

Portugal’s slump convinced François Libner, the president of Libner S.A., a French manufacturer of delivery truck bodies, that it was hopeless to keep trying to sell there.

After growth in Portugal, Greece, Spain, and Italy started to trail off last year, he shifted his focus to Germany. Mr. Libner figures it will take at least a decade for any real growth to return to Southern Europe, particularly in Spain and Greece, which he classifies as “a catastrophe.”

Mr. Libner said he hoped Paris’s efforts to bring the country’s deficit and overall debt into line with European rules would allow France to keep its AAA bond rating — provided that European leaders figure out how to contain the debt crisis to Greece. If that happens, he said, Europe could rebound quickly, as investors regain faith in the viability of the euro union.

But if it does not happen, and Europe’s banks become further ensnared in the crisis — he shuddered at the thought. “We can pay for Greece, but not for all of Europe,” he said. If the crisis swells, he added, “we won’t have the means to pay for all of this.”
207 2011-10-05 BEIJING — Three brothers of Liu Xiaobo, the imprisoned dissident writer who was given the Nobel Peace Prize last year, were allowed to visit him in a prison in northeast China on Sept. 28, one of the brothers told Agence France-Presse on Tuesday.

The brother, Liu Xiaoxuan, said Mr. Liu “was looking very well” and had been allowed to attend a memorial service for his father in the northeastern city of Dalian on Sept. 18. The brothers visited Mr. Liu in a prison in Jinzhou, Liaoning Province.

Mr. Liu was sentenced to 11 years in prison for inciting subversion of the state for his essays and a manifesto he helped draft, Charter 08, which demands political reform, human rights guarantees and an independent judicial system.

Last October, the Nobel committee announced that he was being given the Peace Prize, but the Chinese authorities did not allow him to travel to Oslo for the ceremony in December. Liu Xia, his wife, has effectively been under house arrest in Beijing and is not allowed to meet with journalists.
208 2011-10-05 “It’s almost a schizophrenic view from investors. Have we fallen off a cliff, or have we hit the bottom?” said Richard J. Peterson of Standard & Poor’s Capital IQ.

The rough ride will end only when some resolution is reached in Europe, Mr. Peterson said. But that day does not seem to be approaching very quickly. There are increasing signs that the economic situation in Europe is set to worsen.

The economy in the 17 countries that use has already slowed to a standstill, and economists say they believe it could stay in a slump at least through the spring. There is widespread worry that austerity measures intended to reduce government debt will further choke Europe’s economies.

The price that European governments pay for , which serve as against default for their sovereign debt, rose sharply across Europe. After the markets closed in New York, downgraded its outlook on Italian government bonds.

Interest rates rose slightly on Tuesday. The ’s benchmark 10-year note fell 20/32, to 102 25/32, and the yield rose to 1.82 percent, from 1.75 percent late Monday.

Earlier in Europe, stocks declined sharply. In , the FTSE 100 index fell 2.58 percent, the DAX in was 2.98 percent lower and the CAC 40 in was down 2.61 percent.

Finance ministers from the 17 nations that use the euro postponed moves to release the next installment of aid to Greece, which means that Greece will probably not receive the 8 billion euros ($10.6 billion) before November.

European banking shares fell sharply, led by Dexia, a financial concern based in whose value has plunged this week because of its exposure to Greek debt.

Traders pinned the late surge in United States stocks to a report on The Financial Times Web site that European Union finance ministers were looking at ways to reinforce the capital reserves of Europe’s banks as part of a broader move to contain the crisis.

Earlier, , the chairman, voiced concern about the American economy when he addressed a Congressional committee. Mr. Bernanke called on Congress to take action on jobs, but also said that the Fed was prepared to make further moves to stimulate the economy. He said the turmoil in the markets was acting as a drag on the American economy.

Analysts noted the negative tone of his remarks.

“We’re no longer comparing it to what you would be expecting in a recovery — it’s that we’re not as bad as we were in 2008. He talks about the limits of what he can do,” said Eric Green, chief economist at TD Securities.

In economic data, new factory orders were down slightly in August, but not as bad as most analysts had predicted, according to figures from the Commerce Department.

Andrew Wilkinson, chief economic strategist for Miller Tabak & Company, said that the numbers were the latest in a series of economic indicators showing that the American economy was not slipping into . “It’s moving in the right direction, but it’s moving at a very slow pace,” he said.

Still, economists see the slowing economy in Europe as a troublesome sign for the United States. After the 2008 financial crisis, the American economy was fueled in part by exports. Interruptions in worldwide demand could cut off that road to recovery. A strengthening dollar could also be a concern, because it makes American exports more expensive.

The dollar rose to a fresh nine-month high against the euro, which fell as low as $1.3144, before recovering to $1.332.
209 2011-10-05 NEW DELHI — The Dalai Lama, Tibet’s exiled spiritual leader, scrapped plans on Tuesday to attend the 80th birthday celebration of a fellow Nobel laureate, Desmond M. Tutu of South Africa, after the host government did not grant his visa request.

Critics viewed the South African government’s behavior as a capitulation to China, one of South Africa’s most important economic partners and a strong opponent of the Dalai Lama, whom the Chinese authorities consider subversive.

A statement by the Dalai Lama’s office in New Delhi said he and his entourage had expected to visit South Africa from Thursday to Oct. 14, had submitted visa applications at the end of August and had submitted their passports two weeks ago. His agenda included the Oct. 6 birthday of Archbishop Tutu and a number of public talks.

However, his office said in a statement, “Since the South African government seems to find it inconvenient to issue a visa to His Holiness the Dalai Lama, His Holiness has decided to call off this visit to South Africa.”

The statement did not address the question of why South Africa did not grant the visa, and the South African Embassy in New Delhi did not immediately respond to a request for comment. But officials in South Africa said they followed normal procedures in reviewing the visa request.
210 2011-10-05 In the wake of another sizable drop in attendance, the Mets have announced that they were again cutting ticket prices.     The Mets' attendance fell 7 percent in 2011, their second annual decline since moving to Citi Field, as the team logged its ...
211 2011-10-05 Dr. Robert Feig, a retina specialist in Brooklyn and the Bronx, says he wants to save patients and Medicare money by treating eye diseases with a drug that costs $50 a dose, rather than one that costs $2,000 a dose.     But three recent incidents ...
212 2011-10-05 7:29 p.m. | Updated      Britain struck a deal Tuesday with its European Union allies on how to regulate trading in over-the-counter derivatives, a compromise that the government said would improve regulation and protect financial markets across E...
213 2011-10-05 Morgan Stanley executives are battling a daily barrage of rumors and nay-saying to try to stem a sharp slide in the company's stock.     It is a war that is being fought in large part in the shadows: against anonymous blogs and market whispers, bu...
214 2011-10-05 SOMEKH--Herbert Nissim. Born August 11, 1923. Beloved husband of the late Denise Somekh. Loving father of Yvette, Linda and Cheryl. Devoted grandfather of Aron, Dana, Nicole, Ryan, Kara, Asher and Emma. Great-grandfather to Ethan, Austin, Natalia ...
215 2011-10-05 7:35 p.m. | Updated      PARIS - European regulators are sending a statement of objections to Deutsche Borse and NYSE Euronext over their proposed $9 billion merger, a person with direct knowledge of the action said Tuesday. The move shows that th...
216 2011-10-06 Fixes looks at solutions to social problems and why they work.
217 2011-10-06 Current and former employees said the mood at Apple headquarters after Steve Jobs's death was a combination of sadness and business as usual....
218 2011-10-06 Current and former employees said the mood at Apple headquarters after Steve Jobs's death was a combination of sadness and business as usual....
219 2011-10-06 The Commodity Futures Trading Commission filed a record number of enforcement cases over the last year as it moved to clean up the mess from the financial crisis....
220 2011-10-06 The Commodity Futures Trading Commission filed a record number of enforcement cases over the last year as it moved to clean up the mess from the financial crisis....
221 2011-10-06 The economy is growing slowly, but measures of Americans' attitudes are at recession levels. Can the economy grow while we are so gloomy?...
222 2011-10-06 The economy is growing slowly, but measures of Americans' attitudes are at recession levels. Can the economy grow while we are so gloomy?...
223 2011-10-06 When demonstrators know more than central bankers....
224 2011-10-06 When demonstrators know more than central bankers....
225 2011-10-06 After passing a bill that would block regulations on cement plants, House Republicans immediately turn to a companion measure stymie rules on toxic emissions from industrial boilers and incinerators....
226 2011-10-06 After passing a bill that would block regulations on cement plants, House Republicans immediately turn to a companion measure stymie rules on toxic emissions from industrial boilers and incinerators....
227 2011-10-06 Steve Jobs changed how business journalism is perceived, adding glitz and esteem to a subject that had often been associated with faceless conglomerates or Wall Street excess....
228 2011-10-06 Steve Jobs changed how business journalism is perceived, adding glitz and esteem to a subject that had often been associated with faceless conglomerates or Wall Street excess....
229 2011-10-06 Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner's comments today that there is "absolutely" no chance that another U.S. financial institution would fail was music to Morgan Stanley and other bank stocks....
230 2011-10-06 Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner's comments today that there is "absolutely" no chance that another U.S. financial institution would fail was music to Morgan Stanley and other bank stocks....
231 2011-10-06 The Senate Banking Committee voted to advance Richard Cordray's nomination to lead the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, although Republicans have vowed to block his confirmation....
232 2011-10-06 The Senate Banking Committee voted to advance Richard Cordray's nomination to lead the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, although Republicans have vowed to block his confirmation....
233 2011-10-06 But the 10 Senate Republicans on the banking committee, seeking to rein in the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, all voted against Richard Cordray's nomination....
234 2011-10-06 But the 10 Senate Republicans on the banking committee, seeking to rein in the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, all voted against Richard Cordray's nomination....
235 2011-10-06 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
236 2011-10-06 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
237 2011-10-06 Google's Chromebook laptops, with a browser but no desktop software or storage, are hard for people to understand, so Google is inviting shoppers to test them out in pop-up shops in the United States and Britain....
238 2011-10-06 Google's Chromebook laptops, with a browser but no desktop software or storage, are hard for people to understand, so Google is inviting shoppers to test them out in pop-up shops in the United States and Britain....
239 2011-10-06 A European court rules that France's insider trading laws were sufficiently clear to hold George Soros criminally responsible for buying and selling shares of Société Générale in 1988 with the knowledge the bank might be a takeover target....
240 2011-10-06 A European court rules that France's insider trading laws were sufficiently clear to hold George Soros criminally responsible for buying and selling shares of Société Générale in 1988 with the knowledge the bank might be a takeover target....
241 2011-10-06 Which of Steve Jobs’s Products Mattered Most?

Most inventors and business leaders are lucky if they create one product that changes the way people do things. Steve Jobs helped create several. Which of his products had the greatest impact on you? Please cast your vote and add your comment below.
242 2011-10-06 Microsoft Word includes tools that make index creation fairly straightforward, although it may take some time....
243 2011-10-06 Microsoft Word includes tools that make index creation fairly straightforward, although it may take some time....
244 2011-10-06 The Owling Supper Club in Berlin is a restaurant within a home, and, to a degree, a secret....
245 2011-10-06 The Owling Supper Club in Berlin is a restaurant within a home, and, to a degree, a secret....
246 2011-10-06 He was a pioneer of critical race theory — a body of legal scholarship that explored how racism is embedded in laws and legal institutions, even many of those intended to redress past injustices. His 1973 book, “Race, Racism and American Law,” became a staple in law schools and is now in its sixth edition.

Mr. Bell “set the agenda in many ways for scholarship on race in the academy, not just the legal academy,” said Lani Guinier, the first black woman hired to join Harvard Law School’s tenured faculty, in an interview on Wednesday.

At a rally while a student at Harvard Law, Barack Obama compared Professor Bell to the civil rights hero Rosa Parks.

Professor Bell’s core beliefs included what he called “the interest convergence dilemma” — the idea that whites would not support efforts to improve the position of blacks unless it was in their interest. Asked how the status of blacks could be improved, he said he generally supported civil rights litigation, but cautioned that even favorable rulings would probably yield disappointing results and that it was best to be prepared for that.

Much of Professor Bell’s scholarship rejected dry legal analysis in favor of stories. In books and law review articles, he presented parables and allegories about race relations, then debated their meaning with a fictional alter ego, a professor named Geneva Crenshaw, who forced him to confront the truth about racism in America.

One of his best-known parables is “The Space Traders,” which appeared in his 1992 book, “Faces at the Bottom of the Well: The Permanence of Racism.” In the story, as Professor Bell later described it, creatures from another planet offer the United States “enough gold to retire the national debt, a magic chemical that will cleanse America’s polluted skies and waters, and a limitless source of safe energy to replace our dwindling reserves.” In exchange, the creatures ask for only one thing: America’s black population, which would be sent to outer space. The white population accepts the offer by an overwhelming margin. (In 1994 the story was adapted as one of three segments in a television movie titled “Cosmic Slop.”)

Not everyone welcomed the move to storytelling in legal scholarship. In 1997 Richard Posner, the conservative law professor and appeals court judge, wrote in The New Republic that “by repudiating reasoned argumentation,” scholars like Professor Bell “reinforce stereotypes about the intellectual capacities of nonwhites.”

Professor Bell’s narrative technique nonetheless became an accepted mode of legal scholarship, giving female, Latino and gay scholars a new way to introduce their experiences into legal discourse. Reviewing “Faces at the Bottom of the Well” in The New York Times, the Supreme Court reporter Linda Greenhouse wrote: “The stories challenge old assumptions and then linger in the mind in a way that a more conventionally scholarly treatment of the same themes would be unlikely to do.”

Derrick Albert Bell Jr. was born on Nov. 6, 1930, in Pittsburgh, to Derrick Albert and Ada Elizabeth Childress Bell. After graduating from Schenley High School near Pittsburgh’s Hill District, he became the first member of his family to go to college, attending Duquesne University in Pittsburgh. He received his bachelor’s degree in 1952.

A member of the R.O.T.C. at Duquesne, he was later an Air Force officer for two years, one of them in Korea. Afterward he attended the University of Pittsburgh Law School, where he was the only black student, earning his degree in 1957.

After his stint at the Justice Department, he headed the Pittsburgh office of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, leading efforts to integrate a public swimming pool and a skating rink. Later, assigned to Mississippi, he supervised more than 300 school desegregation cases.

In 1969, after teaching briefly at the University of Southern California, he was recruited and hired by Harvard Law School, where students were pressuring the administration to appoint a black professor. Mr. Bell conceded that he did not have the usual qualifications for a Harvard professorship, like a federal court clerkship or a degree from a top law school.

In 1980 he left Harvard to become dean of the University of Oregon School of Law, but he resigned in 1985 when the school did not offer a position to an Asian-American woman. After returning to Harvard in 1986, he staged a five-day sit-in in his office to protest the school’s failure to grant tenure to two professors whose work involved critical race theory.

In 1990 he took an unpaid leave of absence, vowing not to return until the school hired, for the first time, a black woman to join its tenured faculty. His employment effectively ended when the school refused to extend his leave. By then, he was teaching at New York University School of Law, where he remained a visiting professor until his death. Harvard Law School hired Professor Guinier in 1998.

Mr. Bell said his personal decisions took a toll on his first wife, Jewel, who had cancer when he left Harvard in 1990 and died that year. In 1992 he began a correspondence with Janet Dewart, who was the communications director of the National Urban League. Ms. Dewart proposed marriage before the couple even met. A few months later, Mr. Bell accepted.

In addition to his wife, he is survived by three sons from his first marriage, Derrick A. Bell III and Douglas Dubois Bell, both of Pittsburgh, and Carter Robeson Bell of New York; two sisters, Janet Bell of Pittsburgh and Constance Bell of Akron, Ohio; and a brother, Charles, of New York.

In “Ethical Ambition,” Mr. Bell expressed doubts about his legacy: “It is not easy to look back over a long career and recognize with some pain that my efforts may have benefited my career more clearly than they helped those for whom I have worked.”

But Professor Guinier, who continues to teach at Harvard, differed with that view. “Most people think of iconoclasts as lone rangers,” she said on Wednesday. “But Derrick was both an iconoclast and a community builder. When he was opening up this path, it was not just for him. It was for all those who he knew would follow into the legal academy.”
247 2011-10-06 Mr. Soghanalian was charged with wire fraud a few years later. But he was released after being held for 10 months in order to travel to Jordan to assist in another investigation, of the former Peruvian intelligence chief Vladimiro Montesinos. In return for his help, a judge sentenced him to the time he had already served.

He worked with the C.I.A. off and on for years; after a falling out with that agency, he cooperated with the F.B.I., drawing on information about the dark corners of the global arms trade, said Lowell Bergman, professor of investigative reporting at the University of California, Berkeley, and an acquaintance of his for more than 30 years.

“He’s one of those characters who emerged out of the cold war and played a critical role in clandestine activities on behalf of the United States, while providing deniability,” said Mr. Bergman, a reporter who produced reports about Mr. Soghanalian for ABC, the PBS program “Frontline” and “60 Minutes” on CBS.

Mr. Bergman recalled sitting in Mr. Soghanalian’s Geneva office for a day in 1985, watching as a parade of American officials, Israelis, Palestinians and representatives of Lebanon’s Amal militia visited Mr. Soghanalian.

After he settled in Florida in the 1990s, United States Customs officials would occasionally raid his hangar at Miami International Airport, looking for contraband, Mr. Bergman said.

“And then the case would go away,” he said, as Mr. Soghanalian called on friends in the government to come to his defense.

“He could be infuriating and totally self-absorbed,” said Mr. Bergman, who has also reported for The New York Times. “What was always amazing was how much he knew.”

An American official who worked with Mr. Soghanalian years ago confirmed his work with both the C.I.A. and the F.B.I. He said he recalled sitting with Mr. Soghanalian and listening as he called United States senators, members of Jordan’s royal family and leaders of Hezbollah, a Lebanese-based militant group.

“They’d all take his calls,” said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak about his former contact. “You’d find out he was telling you the truth, even if he was kind of gilding it in his favor.”

Despite his long history of supplying weapons to brutal governments, the official said, “he was able to do good things for the United States.”

Sarkis Garabet Soghanalian was born in Iskenderun, then part of Syria but now in Turkey, on Feb. 6, 1929, into an Armenian family. After his father’s death, the family moved to Beirut, where Sarkis quit school and went to work, his daughter, Melo Hansen, said. He married Shirley Adams, a teacher at a school in Beirut, in 1958. They were divorced in the 1970s.

His son said that Mr. Soghanalian was fluent in English, French, Armenian, Turkish and Arabic and “could make himself understood” in Spanish and Italian. “There’s been enough said about ‘merchant of death’ and all that,” his son said. “But all the way back to the ’60s and ’70s, his goal was to help the United States. There was a deep-seated root of patriotism that often gets overlooked.”

Mr. Soghanalian was a citizen of Lebanon and never took American citizenship, his son said. “He liked to be independent, and it gave the U.S. an element of denial: ‘He’s not one of ours.’ ”

In addition to his son, who lives in Miami, and his daughter, who lives in Salt Lake City, Mr. Soghanalian is survived by his sister, Anahis Hartz; his brother, Zaven; three grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.

Despite the wealth his arms sales produced, the end of the cold war cut off many of his business contacts, his son said. “The world changed around him,” Mr. Soghanalian said. By the time of his death, “he was broke.”
248 2011-10-06 Its executives often praised corporate decision-making by saying, “Walt would have liked it.” But by the late 1970s, Disney was struggling after a string of box-office flops and was the subject of a hostile takeover attempt. It took the hiring of Michael Eisner and other top executives in the 1980s to revitalize Disney through more aggressive investments in animated filmmaking, theme parks and stores.

“Apple can’t fall into that,” said David Yoffie, a professor at the Harvard Business School. “It’s not, ‘What would Steve have done?’ That’s a recipe for problems.”

Mr. Yoffie said Mr. Cook had to “walk a fine line” in how he managed the transition into the post-Jobs era. “For most of the people at Apple, they have to have a sense that the creativity and enthusiasm of Steve will continue,” he said. “He’s got to send a signal to troops that the heart of Apple won’t change. Otherwise he risks losing talent.

“At the same time, Tim can’t be another Steve Jobs,” Mr. Yoffie continued. “At some level, the company will have to evolve. The way it evolves and the types of changes are yet to be understood, probably by Tim himself.”

For the moment, Mr. Jobs has left Apple with so much momentum in the market, with surging sales of products like the iPad and iPhone, that it is unlikely to face any huge immediate challenges. The day before Mr. Jobs died, Mr. Cook made his debut at the first public event since taking over the top post: the introduction of a new model of iPhone.

Rick Devine, an executive recruiter, said that the “market winds are at their back,” and that Mr. Cook is the best-qualified person to continue that success. “He knows that organization,” he said. “If there’s anyone who can keep that course, it’s him.”

Mr. Devine is familiar with Mr. Cook because he was the recruiter who introduced him to Mr. Jobs in 1998, when Mr. Jobs was looking for a seasoned executive to help him clean up Apple’s disorganized manufacturing operations. Mr. Jobs and Mr. Cook quickly hit it off when they met, as Mr. Jobs told Mr. Devine after their meeting.

“He said, ‘This is the guy,’ ” Mr. Devine said.

Mr. Jobs’s death left technology executives and legions of Apple fans struggling to imagine an industry without one of its founding fathers. Bill Gates, the Microsoft chairman and co-founder, said he would “miss Steve immensely.”

“The world rarely sees someone who has had the profound impact Steve has had, the effects of which will be felt for many generations to come,” Mr. Gates said in a statement. “For those of us lucky enough to get to work with him, it’s been an insanely great honor.”

Consumers of Apple products expressed somewhat similar emotions on Wednesday.

Vansi Gadey, 30, a designer who works at a large technology company, was visiting the Apple store near Union Square in San Francisco, to charge his phone. He said: “I’m from India. In my childhood, Gandhi was an inspiration. After that, it’s been Steve Jobs.”

Burt Miller, 56, was on his way to a San Francisco Apple store to pick up some replacement parts when his wife called to tell him that Mr. Jobs had died. He said he was crushed. Mr. Miller, who works in construction, said he had followed the presentation of the new iPhone the day before and was convinced that Mr. Jobs had too. “I think he saw it and knew Apple was going to make it and he let go.”
249 2011-10-06 The Fox analyst Tim McCarver will miss the first two games of the American League Championship Series and will be replaced by the former Boston Red Sox manager Terry Francona. McCarver will have a “minor heart-related procedure” this week, the network said. He is expected to rejoin the announcer Joe Buck next Tuesday for Game 3. The Red Sox announced last Friday they would not pick up Francona’s contract option.
250 2011-10-06 Mr. Corcino, in his first public statement, attributed the breach to “a chain of mistakes which are far too easy to make when handling electronic data.”

When the breach was first reported by The New York Times on Sept. 8, it was not clear how the data had made it to the Web.

Breaches of private medical data have become distressingly commonplace, with two substantial ones disclosed in the last week alone.

In Orlando, officials with Florida Hospital reported that three employees had improperly combed through emergency department records of 2,252 patients, apparently to forward information about accident victims to lawyers. The employees were fired, and law enforcement officials are investigating.

Meanwhile, Science Applications International Corporation disclosed that computer backup tapes containing medical data for 4.9 million military patients had been stolen from an employee’s car in San Antonio. The data included Social Security numbers, clinical notes, laboratory test results and prescriptions. The company said the risk of harm was low because retrieving data from the tapes would require specialized knowledge, software and hardware.

The Texas breach is by far the largest since September 2009, when a new federal law began requiring disclosures of medical privacy violations involving at least 500 people. Some 330 such episodes have been tallied, including four others that affected more than one million people each.

Officials at the Department of Health and Human Services said the new reporting requirements had exposed deep vulnerabilities and encouraged renewed vigilance.

“We’re moving in the right direction in terms of a culture of compliance,” said Leon Rodriguez, director of the department’s Office for Civil Rights, which investigates medical privacy cases. “Are there still a lot of problems out there? Yeah, my sense is there are still a lot of problems.”

The Stanford breach was notable for the duration of public exposure, and for spotlighting the vulnerability created by a medical provider’s business relationships with outside parties.

Last week, lawyers filed suit in state court in Los Angeles, seeking certification as a class action and $20 million in damages from Stanford Hospital & Clinics and Multi-Specialty Collection Services, which is known as MSCS. The threat of liability set off a predictable round of finger-pointing.

In written responses to questions, Lisa Lapin, Stanford University’s assistant vice president for university communications, said, “MSCS bears the complete and sole responsibility for the breach.”

Ms. Lapin said the hospital had sent the data in encrypted form to Mr. Corcino, who requested it on behalf of MSCS to analyze a strategy for improving billing collections. She said Mr. Corcino had regularly represented himself as MSCS’s executive vice president and had been Stanford’s “primary contact” during a seven-year relationship. MSCS, a five-person firm that audits hospital accounts to maximize reimbursement, possessed the passwords to unencrypt the data, she said.

“This mishandling of private patient information was in complete contravention of the law and of the requirements of MSCS’s contract and is shockingly irresponsible,” the hospital said in a statement.

Ms. Sternfield, Mr. Reyna’s lawyer, said Mr. Corcino had never been an MSCS employee, but rather was paid a monthly fee to drum up business, typically in face-to-face meetings with health care executives. Mr. Reyna, she said, had no knowledge that the Stanford data had been sent to Mr. Corcino, or that he had passed it on.

Mr. Corcino was not authorized to use an MSCS title, Ms. Sternfield said, but she declined to say whether Mr. Reyna was aware of the practice. She acknowledged that Mr. Corcino sometimes used an MSCS e-mail account.

In his e-mail to the breach victim, who shared it with The Times, Mr. Reyna wrote that Stanford had sent the file to Mr. Corcino “for a potential MSCS project that would audit paid accounts to verify that the reimbursement was correct.”

For his part, Mr. Corcino said in a statement that he was an independent contractor but was “the marketing face of the company,” and that MSCS “allowed me to use the title of executive vice president.” He wrote: “Stanford sent the file to me at MSCS, and I imported the data into a spreadsheet that was forwarded to the job applicant as part of a skills test. I did not intend to provide any personal health information in the file. This was a marketing project.”

Without explaining how or why he sent the data to the applicant, Mr. Corcino said MSCS had not trained him properly and faulted Stanford for sending him private information that he did not need. That, he said, was the “first link in a chain of mistakes.”

“I regret that Stanford released a file containing unnecessary information,” Mr. Corcino said, “that MSCS did not have an appropriate training and audit system for the handling of electronic data and that I was not more careful with the file. While Stanford and MSCS left the information in the file I received, it was my mistake to not catch its inclusion and remove the data.”

The hospital has terminated its relationship with MSCS, and Mr. Reyna has done the same with Mr. Corcino.

Stanford Hospital has reassured affected patients that the posted spreadsheet did not contain Social Security numbers, birthdates or credit card numbers, and has offered free identity theft protection services. The hospital said it had not uncovered any misuse of the exposed data.
251 2011-10-06 Urte Tylaite wanted Still House, her new store in the East Village, to be a kind of cabinet of curiosities.

“But that concept is a bit overdone at this point,” she said. So to “update it and make it feel more contemporary and lighter, the store has a lot of natural wood, light walls and no skulls.”

The 300-square-foot space was designed by Silva/Bradshaw, a Brooklyn firm, and is a well-styled mix of decorative accessories, tabletop items, rocks and minerals, notebooks and jewelry.

Ms. Tylaite, a Pratt graduate from Lithuania, carries items from local designers like the glass blower Thaddeus Wolfe, as well as pieces from Scandinavia and Japan. Prices range from $5 for a bud vase by Chive to about $900 for a one-of-a-kind vase by Mr. Wolfe. (The green glass marbles by HomArt, left, are $10 each, in a black porcelain bowl by GDG Studios, $35; a glass pyramid by HomePort Collections, below left, is $92 , and the cube is $84.)
252 2011-10-06 By then, having mastered digital technology and capitalized on his intuitive marketing sense, Mr. Jobs had largely come to define the personal computer industry and an array of digital consumer and entertainment businesses centered on the Internet. He had also become a very rich man, worth an estimated $8.3 billion.

Tributes to Mr. Jobs flowed quickly on Wednesday evening, in formal statements and in the flow of social networks, with , technology industry leaders and legions of Apple fans weighing in.

“For those of us lucky enough to get to work with Steve, it’s been an insanely great honor,” said Bill Gates, the Microsoft co-founder. “I will miss Steve immensely.”

A user named Matt Galligan wrote: “R.I.P. Steve Jobs. You touched an ugly world of technology and made it beautiful.”

Eight years after founding Apple, Mr. Jobs led the team that designed the Macintosh computer, a breakthrough in making personal computers easier to use. After a 12-year separation from the company, prompted by a bitter falling-out with his chief executive, John Sculley, he returned in 1997 to oversee the creation of one innovative digital device after another — the , the and the . These transformed not only product categories like music players and cellphones but also entire industries, like music and mobile communications.

During his years outside Apple, he bought a tiny computer graphics spinoff from the director and built a team of computer scientists, artists and animators that became Pixar Animation Studios.

Starting with “Toy Story” in 1995, Pixar produced a string of hit movies, won several Academy Awards for artistic and technological excellence, and made the full-length computer-animated film a mainstream art form enjoyed by children and adults worldwide.

Mr. Jobs was neither a hardware engineer nor a software programmer, nor did he think of himself as a manager. He considered himself a technology leader, choosing the best people possible, encouraging and prodding them, and making the final call on product design.

It was an executive style that had evolved. In his early years at Apple, his meddling in tiny details maddened colleagues, and his criticism could be caustic and even humiliating. But he grew to elicit extraordinary loyalty.

“He was the most passionate leader one could hope for, a motivating force without parallel,” wrote Steven Levy, author of the 1994 book “Insanely Great,” which chronicles the creation of the Mac. “Tom Sawyer could have picked up tricks from Steve Jobs.”

“Toy Story,” for example, took four years to make while Pixar struggled, yet Mr. Jobs never let up on his colleagues. “‘You need a lot more than vision — you need a stubbornness, tenacity, belief and patience to stay the course,” said Edwin Catmull, a computer scientist and a co-founder of Pixar. “In Steve’s case, he pushes right to the edge, to try to make the next big step forward.”

Mr. Jobs was the ultimate arbiter of Apple products, and his standards were exacting. Over the course of a year he tossed out two iPhone prototypes, for example, before approving the third, and began shipping it in June 2007.

To his understanding of technology he brought an immersion in popular culture. In his 20s, he dated ; sang at his 30th birthday party. His worldview was shaped by the ’60s counterculture in the San Francisco Bay Area, where he had grown up, the adopted son of a Silicon Valley machinist. When he graduated from high school in Cupertino in 1972, he said, “the very strong scent of the 1960s was still there.”

After dropping out of Reed College, a stronghold of liberal thought in , Ore., in 1972, Mr. Jobs led a countercultural lifestyle himself. He told a reporter that taking LSD was one of the two or three most important things he had done in his life. He said there were things about him that people who had not tried psychedelics — even people who knew him well, including his wife — could never understand.

Decades later he flew around the world in his own corporate jet, but he maintained emotional ties to the period in which he grew up. He often felt like an outsider in the corporate world, he said. When discussing the Silicon Valley’s lasting contributions to humanity, he mentioned in the same breath the invention of the microchip and “The Whole Earth Catalog,” a 1960s counterculture publication.

Apple’s very name reflected his unconventionality. In an era when engineers and hobbyists tended to describe their machines with model numbers, he chose the name of a fruit, supposedly because of his dietary habits at the time.

Coming on the scene just as computing began to move beyond the walls of research laboratories and corporations in the 1970s, Mr. Jobs saw that computing was becoming personal — that it could do more than crunch numbers and solve scientific and business problems — and that it could even be a force for social and economic change. And at a time when hobbyist computers were boxy wooden affairs with metal chassis, he designed the Apple II as a sleek, low-slung plastic package intended for the den or the kitchen. He was offering not just products but a digital lifestyle.

He put much stock in the notion of “taste,” a word he used frequently. It was a sensibility that shone in products that looked like works of art and delighted users. Great products, he said, were a triumph of taste, of “trying to expose yourself to the best things humans have done and then trying to bring those things into what you are doing.”

Regis McKenna, a longtime Silicon Valley marketing executive to whom Mr. Jobs turned in the late 1970s to help shape the Apple brand, said Mr. Jobs’s genius lay in his ability to simplify complex, highly engineered products, “to strip away the excess layers of business, design and innovation until only the simple, elegant reality remained.”

Mr. Jobs’s own research and intuition, not focus groups, were his guide. When asked what market research went into the iPad, Mr. Jobs replied: “None. It’s not the consumers’ job to know what they want.”

Steven Paul Jobs was born in on Feb. 24, 1955, and surrendered for adoption by his biological parents, Joanne Carole Schieble and Abdulfattah Jandali, a graduate student from who became a political science professor. He was adopted by Paul and Clara Jobs.

The elder Mr. Jobs, who worked in finance and real estate before returning to his original trade as a machinist, moved his family down the San Francisco Peninsula to Mountain View and then to Los Altos in the 1960s.

Mr. Jobs developed an early interest in electronics. He was mentored by a neighbor, an electronics hobbyist, who built Heathkit do-it-yourself electronics projects. He was brash from an early age. As an eighth grader, after discovering that a crucial part was missing from a frequency counter he was assembling, he telephoned William Hewlett, the co-founder of . Mr. Hewlett spoke with the boy for 20 minutes, prepared a bag of parts for him to pick up and offered him a job as a summer intern.

Mr. Jobs met Mr. Wozniak while attending Homestead High School in neighboring Cupertino. The two took an introductory electronics class there.

The spark that ignited their partnership was provided by Mr. Wozniak’s mother. Mr. Wozniak had graduated from high school and enrolled at the , when she sent him an article from the October 1971 issue of Esquire magazine. The article, “Secrets of the Little Blue Box,” by Ron Rosenbaum, detailed an underground hobbyist culture of young men known as phone phreaks who were illicitly exploring the nation’s phone system.

Mr. Wozniak shared the article with Mr. Jobs, and the two set out to track down an elusive figure identified in the article as Captain Crunch. The man had taken the name from his discovery that a whistle that came in boxes of Cap’n Crunch cereal was tuned to a frequency that made it possible to make free long-distance calls simply by blowing the whistle next to a phone handset.

Captain Crunch was John Draper, a former Air Force electronic technician, and finding him took several weeks. Learning that the two young hobbyists were searching for him, Mr. Draper had arranged to come to Mr. Wozniak’s dormitory room. Mr. Jobs, who was still in high school, had traveled to Berkeley for the meeting. When Mr. Draper arrived, he entered the room saying simply, “It is I!”

Based on information they gleaned from Mr. Draper, Mr. Wozniak and Mr. Jobs later collaborated on building and selling blue boxes, devices that were widely used for making free — and illegal — phone calls. They raised a total of $6,000 from the effort.

After enrolling at Reed College in 1972, Mr. Jobs left after one semester, but remained in Portland for another 18 months auditing classes. In a commencement address given at Stanford in 2005, he said he had decided to leave college because it was consuming all of his parents’ savings.

Leaving school, however, also freed his curiosity to follow his interests. “I didn’t have a dorm room,” he said in his Stanford speech, “so I slept on the floor in friends’ rooms, I returned Coke bottles for the 5-cent deposits to buy food with, and I would walk the seven miles across town every Sunday night to get one good meal a week at the Hare Krishna temple. I loved it. And much of what I stumbled into by following my curiosity and intuition turned out to be priceless later on.”

He returned to Silicon Valley in 1974 and took a job there as a technician at Atari, the video game manufacturer. Still searching for his calling, he left after several months and traveled to with a college friend, Daniel Kottke, who would later become an early Apple employee. Mr. Jobs returned to Atari that fall. In 1975, he and Mr. Wozniak, then working as an engineer at H.P., began attending meetings of the Homebrew Computer Club, a hobbyist group that met at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center in Menlo Park, Calif. Personal computing had been pioneered at research laboratories adjacent to Stanford, and it was spreading to the outside world.

“What I remember is how intense he looked,” said Lee Felsenstein, a computer designer who was a Homebrew member. “He was everywhere, and he seemed to be trying to hear everything people had to say.”

Mr. Wozniak designed the original Apple I computer simply to show it off to his friends at the Homebrew. It was Mr. Jobs who had the inspiration that it could be a commercial product.

In early 1976, he and Mr. Wozniak, using their own money, began Apple with an initial of $1,300; they later gained the backing of a former Intel executive, A. C. Markkula, who lent them $250,000. Mr. Wozniak would be the technical half and Mr. Jobs the marketing half of the original Apple I Computer. Starting out in the Jobs family garage in Los Altos, they moved the company to a small office in Cupertino shortly thereafter.

In April 1977, Mr. Jobs and Mr. Wozniak introduced Apple II at the West Coast Computer Faire in San Francisco. It created a sensation. Faced with a gaggle of small and large competitors in the emerging computer market, Apple, with its Apple II, had figured out a way to straddle the business and consumer markets by building a computer that could be customized for specific applications.

Sales skyrocketed, from $2 million in 1977 to $600 million in 1981, the year the company went public. By 1983 Apple was in the Fortune 500. No company had ever joined the list so quickly.

The Apple III, introduced in May 1980, was intended to dominate the desktop computer market. would not introduce its original personal computer until 1981. But the Apple III had a host of technical problems, and Mr. Jobs shifted his focus to a new and ultimately short-lived project, an office workstation computer code-named Lisa.

By then Mr. Jobs had made his much-chronicled 1979 visit to Xerox’s research center in Palo Alto, where he saw the Alto, an experimental personal computer system that foreshadowed modern desktop computing. The Alto, controlled by a mouse pointing device, was one of the first computers to employ a graphical video display, which presented the user with a view of documents and programs, adopting the metaphor of an office desktop.

“It was one of those sort of apocalyptic moments,” Mr. Jobs said of his visit in a 1995 oral history interview for the . “I remember within 10 minutes of seeing the graphical user interface stuff, just knowing that every computer would work this way someday. It was so obvious once you saw it. It didn’t require tremendous intellect. It was so clear.”

In 1981 he joined a small group of Apple engineers pursuing a separate project, a lower-cost system code-named Macintosh. The machine was introduced in January 1984 and trumpeted during the Super Bowl telecast by a 60-second commercial, directed by , that linked I.B.M., then the dominant PC maker, with Orwell’s Big Brother.

A year earlier Mr. Jobs had lured Mr. Sculley to Apple to be its chief executive. A former -Cola chief executive, Mr. Sculley was impressed by Mr. Jobs’s pitch: “Do you want to spend the rest of your life selling sugared water, or do you want a chance to change the world?”

He went on to help Mr. Jobs introduce a number of new computer models, including an advanced version of the Apple II and later the Lisa and Macintosh desktop computers. Through them Mr. Jobs popularized the graphical user interface, which, based on a mouse pointing device, would become the standard way to control computers.

But when the Lisa failed commercially and early Macintosh sales proved disappointing, the two men became estranged and a power struggle ensued, and Mr. Jobs lost control of the Lisa project. The board ultimately stripped him of his operational role, taking control of the Lisa project away from him, and 1,200 Apple employees were laid off. He left Apple in 1985.

“I don’t wear the right kind of pants to run this company,” he told a small gathering of Apple employees before he left, according to a member of the original Macintosh development team. He was barefoot as he spoke, and wearing blue jeans.

That September he announced a new venture, NeXT Inc. The aim was to build a workstation computer for the higher-education market. The next year, the industrialist invested $20 million in the effort. But it did not achieve Mr. Jobs’s goals.

Mr. Jobs also established a personal philanthropic foundation after leaving Apple but soon had a change of heart, deciding instead to spend much of his fortune — $10 million — on acquiring Pixar, a struggling graphics supercomputing company owned by the filmmaker George Lucas.

The purchase was a significant gamble; there was little market at the time for computer-animated movies. But that changed in 1995, when the company, with Pictures, released “Toy Story.” That film’s box-office receipts ultimately reached $362 million, and when Pixar went public in a record-breaking offering, Mr. Jobs emerged a billionaire. In 2006, the Walt Disney Company agreed to purchase Pixar for $7.4 billion. The sale made Mr. Jobs Disney’s largest single shareholder, with about 7 percent of the company’s stock.

His personal life also became more public. He had a number of well-publicized romantic relationships, including one with the folk singer Joan Baez, before marrying Laurene Powell. In 1996, his sister Mona Simpson, a novelist, threw a spotlight on her relationship with Mr. Jobs in the novel “A Regular Guy.” The two did not meet until they were adults. The novel centered on a Silicon Valley entrepreneur who bore a close resemblance to Mr. Jobs. It was not an entirely flattering portrait. Mr. Jobs said about a quarter of it was accurate.

“We’re family,” he said of Ms. Simpson in an interview with The New York Times Magazine. “She’s one of my best friends in the world. I call her and talk to her every couple of days.”

His wife and Ms. Simpson survive him, as do his three children with Ms. Powell, his daughters Eve Jobs and Erin Sienna Jobs and a son, Reed; another daughter, Lisa Brennan-Jobs, from a relationship with Chrisann Brennan; and another sister, Patti Jobs.

Eventually, Mr. Jobs refocused NeXT from the education to the business market and dropped the hardware part of the company, deciding to sell just an operating system. Although NeXT never became a significant computer industry player, it had a huge impact: a young programmer, Tim Berners-Lee, used a NeXT machine to develop the first version of the World Wide Web at the Swiss physics research center in 1990.

In 1996, after unsuccessful efforts to develop next-generation operating systems, Apple, with Gilbert Amelio now in command, acquired NeXT for $430 million. The next year, Mr. Jobs returned to Apple as an adviser. He became chief executive again in 2000.

Shortly after returning, Mr. Jobs publicly ended Apple’s long feud with its archrival Microsoft, which agreed to continue developing its Office software for the Macintosh and invested $150 million in Apple.

Once in control of Apple again, Mr. Jobs set out to reshape the consumer electronics industry. He pushed the company into the digital music business, introducing first iTunes and then the iPod MP3 player. The music arm grew rapidly, reaching almost 50 percent of the company’s revenue by June 2008.

In 2005, Mr. Jobs announced that he would end Apple’s business relationship with I.B.M. and Motorola and build Macintosh computers based on Intel microprocessors.

His fight with was now publicly known. Apple had announced in 2004 that Mr. Jobs had a rare but curable form of pancreatic cancer and that he had undergone successful surgery. Four years later, questions about his health returned when he appeared at a company event looking gaunt. Afterward, he said he had suffered from a “common bug.” Privately, he said his cancer surgery had created digestive problems but insisted they were not life-threatening.

Apple began selling the iPhone in June 2007. Mr. Jobs’s goal was to sell 10 million of the handsets in 2008, equivalent to 1 percent of the global cellphone market. The company sold 11.6 million.

Although smartphones were already commonplace, the iPhone dispensed with a stylus and pioneered a touch-screen interface that quickly set the standard for the mobile computing market. Rolled out with much anticipation and fanfare, iPhone rocketed to popularity; by the end of 2010 the company had sold almost 90 million units.

Although Mr. Jobs took just a nominal $1 salary when he returned to Apple, his compensation became the source of a Silicon Valley scandal in 2006 over the backdating of millions of shares of stock options. But after a company investigation and one by the , he was found not to have benefited financially from the backdating and no charges were brought.

The episode did little to taint Mr. Jobs’s standing in the business and technology world. As the gravity of his illness became known, and particularly after he announced he was stepping down, he was increasingly hailed for his genius and true achievement: his ability to blend product design and business market innovation by integrating consumer-oriented software, microelectronic components, industrial design and new business strategies in a way that has not been matched.

If he had a motto, it may have come from “The Whole Earth Catalog,” which he said had deeply influenced him as a young man. The book, he said in his commencement address at Stanford in 2005, ends with the admonition “Stay Hungry. Stay Foolish.”

“I have always wished that for myself,” he said.
253 2011-10-06 “Cycle,” when seen in an overhead photograph, looks like a loosely-wound Celtic triple-spiral. “Junction” has four curved arms that branch out from a central node. But I recommend consulting these images only after you’ve walked through the sculptures, so that you are effectively mapless.

This is important because the works are essentially mazes. In a rare move Mr. Serra is giving you options. There are many ways through the sculptures, some of them more circuitous than others but all of them equally valid.

The first piece you will encounter is “Cycle,” just past the reception desk. Almost immediately upon slipping into its metallic embrace you are forced to make a choice. One path dead-ends, leaving you in an elliptical enclosure; the other leads you along a slim, winding channel where you will be presented with more choices.

It’s as if Mr. Serra had deconstructed one of his “Torqued Ellipses,” turning a single journey to the center into two discrete experiences. This accounts, partly, for the sensation of time splitting.

Fellow travelers, muttering, “Left or right?” or “Did we walk this way? I think so,” appear and reappear. Eventually you’ll emerge into a corner of the gallery, feeling thoroughly discombobulated.

The entire passage brings to mind a hike through a redwood forest, especially when the ruddy ribbons of weathered steel nearly converge overhead. It can be very dark in there, and lush; even though you can hear the buzz of fluorescent light fixtures, they seem to be miles away. Mr. Serra would probably resist being called a landscape artist, but “Cycle” has more than a touch of the sublime.

“Junction,” the second and more expansive sculpture, reinforces that notion with great, velvety sweeps of metal that have been patinated to a rich pumpkin hue. The color is unexpected; apparently the sandblasted steel has only begun to oxidize, so it looks lighter and brighter than the material in Mr. Serra’s last couple of shows. In places you can see a leaf pattern where tree branches brushed the steel plates as they were en route to the gallery; they had been loaded onto trailers but were delayed by Hurricane Irene.

Once you’re between those plates, you feel a tremendous surge. “Cycle” offers clearings, where you can pause and collect yourself. But the blind curves of “Junction” propel you through and, before you know it, spit you out. The movement feels akin to surfing, or being whooshed through a system of pneumatic tubes.

The relationship between the two sculptures is endlessly fascinating. You might see “Cycle” as a contracted version of “Junction,” a figure skater in spin mode. Or you might see “Junction” as the extrovert to “Cycle’s” introvert, with its four arcs that open wide to face the gallery walls.

Either way, you’ll start to see around, under and behind the tons of steel that went into these works, to understand what Mr. Serra means when he says, “I consider space to be my primary material.”
254 2011-10-06 “Without Fred Shuttlesworth laying the groundwork, those demonstrations in Birmingham would not have been as successful,” said Andrew M. Manis, author of “A Fire You Can’t Put Out,” a biography of Mr. Shuttlesworth. “Birmingham led to Selma, and those two became the basis of the civil rights struggle.”

Mr. Shuttlesworth, he added, had “no equal in terms of courage and putting his life in the line of fire” to battle segregation.

Mr. Shuttlesworth joined with Dr. King in 1957 as one of the four founding ministers of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, the engine of Dr. King’s effort to unify the black clergy and their flocks to combat Jim Crow laws. At the time, Mr. Shuttlesworth was leader of the Alabama Christian Movement for Human Rights, which he had helped form in 1956 to replace the Alabama offices of the , shut down for years by court injunction.

Outside their roles as men of the cloth and civil rights advocates, however, Mr. Shuttlesworth and Dr. King stood in sharp contrast to each other in terms of background, personality and strategies.

Dr. King was a polished product of ’s black middle class. A graduate of Morehouse College, he held a Ph.D. in systematic theology from . Fred Shuttlesworth was a child of poor black Alabama whose ministerial degree was from an unaccredited black school. (He later earned a master’s degree in education from Alabama State College.)

Where Dr. King could deliver thunderous oratory and move audiences by his reasoned convictions and faith, Mr. Shuttlesworth was fiery, whether preaching in the pulpit or standing up to Bull Connor, who dueled with him for years in street protests and boycotts leading up to their historic 1963 showdown.

Diane McWhorter, the author of “Carry Me Home,” the -winning 2001 book about the struggle in Birmingham, wrote in an e-mail that Mr. Shuttlesworth was known among some civil rights activists as “the Wild Man from Birmingham.”

“Among the youthful ‘elders’ of the movement,” she added, “he was Martin Luther King’s most effective and insistent foil: blunt where King was soothing, driven where King was leisurely, and most important, confrontational where King was conciliatory — meaning, critically, that he was more upsetting than King in the eyes of the white public.”

Mr. Shuttlesworth was temperamental, even obstinate, and championed action and confrontation over words. He could antagonize segregationists and allies alike, quarreling with his allies behind closed doors.

But few doubted his courage. In the years before 1963 he was arrested time and again — 30 to 40 times by his count — on charges aimed at impeding peaceful protests. He was repeatedly jailed and twice the target of bombs.

In one instance, on Christmas night 1956, he survived an attack in which six sticks of dynamite were detonated outside his parsonage bedroom as he lay in bed. “The wall and the floor were blown out,” Ms. McWhorter wrote, “and the mattress heaved into the air, supporting Shuttlesworth like a magic carpet.”

When he tried to enroll his children in an all-white school in 1957, Klansmen attacked him with bicycle chains and brass knuckles. When a doctor treating his head wounds marveled that he had not suffered a , Mr. Shuttlesworth famously replied, “Doctor, the Lord knew I lived in a hard town, so he gave me a hard head.”

Freddie Lee Robinson was born on March 18, 1922, in rural Mount Meigs, Ala. He took the surname Shuttlesworth from a man his mother, Alberta Robinson, later married. He had eight siblings, and the family supplemented its income by sharecropping and making moonshine liquor, an activity for which Mr. Shuttlesworth was sentenced to two years’ probation in 1940.

He was a truck driver in the early 1940s but was soon drawn to pulpits in Selma and Birmingham. He became pastor of Bethel Baptist Church in Birmingham in 1953 and joined the Alabama chapter of the N.A.A.C.P. before it was outlawed from the state in 1956. He and others established the Alabama Christian Movement for Human Rights to carry on the chapter’s work and came to challenge the white power structure on many fronts.

In 1963 he welcomed Dr. King to Birmingham to take part in the protests. They planned a boycott of white merchants coupled with large marches that they expected would provoke overreaction by city officials and show the world the depth of white resistance.

“We wanted confrontation, nonviolent confrontation, to see if it would work,” Mr. Shuttlesworth later said. “Not just for Birmingham — for the nation. We were trying to launch a systematic, wholehearted battle against segregation, which would set the pace for the nation.”

Mr. Shuttlesworth suffered chest injuries when the pummeling spray of fire hoses was turned on him. “I’m sorry I missed it,” Mr. Connor said when told of the injuries, reported in 1963. “I wish they’d carried him away in a hearse.”

After 1965, with the new civil rights legislation on the books and Dr. King turning his attention to poverty and black problems in the urban North, Mr. Shuttlesworth remained focused on local issues in Birmingham and , where he had moved to take the pulpit of a black church. He traveled frequently between and Alabama before returning permanently to Birmingham in 2008 for treatment after suffering a stroke the previous year.

Besides his wife, Mr. Shuttlesworth is survived by four daughters, Patricia Massengill, Ruby Bester, Carolyn Shuttlesworth and Maria Murdock; a son, Fred Jr.; a stepdaughter, Audrey Wilson; five sisters, Betty Williams, Truzella , Ernestine Grimes, Iwilder Reid and Eula Mitchell; 14 grandchildren; 20 great-grandchildren; and one great-great-grandchild.

With the death of Dr. King, and later Dr. King’s chief aide, the Rev. Ralph Abernathy, Mr. Shuttlesworth eventually assumed the role of elder statesman in the civil rights movement. In 2004 he was named president of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, but he stepped down the same year, complaining that “deceit, mistrust and a lack of spiritual discipline and truth have eaten at the core of this once-hallowed organization.”

He also came under criticism by gay rights advocates in 2004 when he lent his name to a campaign in Cincinnati to stop the city from passing a gay rights ordinance.

He remained an honored figure in Birmingham, however. In 2008, the city renamed its principal airport Birmingham-Shuttlesworth International Airport.

In 2009, in a wheelchair, he was front and center among other dignitaries in an audience of about 6,000 at the city’s Boutwell Auditorium to watch a live broadcast as the nation’s first black president, , was sworn in.

He had encountered Mr. Obama, then a senator from , two years earlier, along with former President , during a commemoration in Selma of the Selma-to-Montgomery voting rights marches. As a crowd crossed the Edmund Pettus Bridge, where demonstrators were beaten and tear-gassed on March 7, 1965, Mr. Obama pushed Mr. Shuttlesworth’s wheelchair.
255 2011-10-06 The fighting in Libya showed, he said, how quickly and decisively NATO could go to war and proved the value of sharing burdens, with France and Britain taking the lead instead of the United States.

But the Libyan conflict, he said, also showed that American capabilities and supplies of ammunition were vital, and it illustrated “growing gaps that must be addressed.”

He warned of “legitimate questions about whether, if present trends continue, NATO will again be able to sustain the kind of operations that we have seen in Libya and Afghanistan without the United States taking on even more of the burden.”

NATO had too few targeting specialists to interpret intelligence and guide aircraft, so Americans filled in, he said.

“But nowhere were the gaps more obvious than in critical enabling capabilities — refueling tankers, the provision of intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance platforms such as Global Hawk and Predator drones.”

Without those American assets, “the Libya operation would have had a very difficult time getting off the ground or being sustained,” he said.

Mr. Panetta, speaking at Carnegie Europe, the Brussels branch of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said that the Pentagon was facing at least $450 billion in budget cuts over the next 10 years, and that he was committed to ensuring that the American military did not once again cut muscle while saving money.

Europeans should avoid the same historical error, he said, and not assume that Washington will always be able to compensate for their shortcomings.

“After World War I, after World War II, after Korea, after Vietnam, after the fall of the Iron Curtain, we made the mistake of hollowing out our forces, and that cannot happen again,” Mr. Panetta said.

“Similarly, NATO nations need to send a strong signal of our determination not to hollow out this alliance,” he said. “We need to use this moment to make the case for the need to invest in this alliance to ensure it remains relevant to the security challenges of the future.”

He urged Europeans to use the success in Libya to make the case to their own publics for the need to spend more on defense, and to spend it more wisely, on cooperative projects.

“With the fall of the Qaddafi regime, our nations saw an example of why NATO matters and why NATO remains indispensable in confronting the security challenges of today,” he said. “We need to use this moment to make the case for the need to invest in this alliance, to ensure it remains relevant to the security challenges of the future.”

By some measures, he said, European defense spending had dropped 2 percent a year for the last decade while Europeans were engaged in Kosovo, Libya and Afghanistan, meaning that the savings had come from budgets for modernization. At the least, he said, NATO members must coordinate spending cuts so that their allies are not surprised.

“We are at a critical moment for our defense partnership,” he warned. “While these warnings have been acknowledged, growing fiscal pressures on both sides of the Atlantic, I fear, have eroded the political will to do something about them.”

After a visit to the Middle East, Mr. Panetta came to Brussels for his first NATO defense ministers meeting, which will address how to conclude the operation in Libya and how to better train Afghan forces to take over security as allied combat forces withdraw through 2014.

The NATO ministers also will discuss Kosovo, where clashes continue between Kosovar Albanians and Serbs, and the antipiracy patrols off Somalia, now in their third year.
256 2011-10-06 The larger proposals, like adjustments to the way the Army Corps of Engineers controls the Mississippi River, are more ambitious. Nearly all of them require hefty financing, which is not easy to find in Washington or in any state capital these days.

The report acknowledges it is a “time of severe fiscal constraints” and suggests forming public-private partnerships and other arrangements that could pool or capitalize on existing resources.

President Obama called for the creation of the Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Task Force last October after the secretary of the Navy, Ray Mabus, submitted a report on the gulf’s health after the three-month BP oil spill. The task force, which included federal and state officials, consulted nongovernmental organizations and representatives of the private sector.

The strategy, which is being made available for a period of public comment before being submitted to the president, lays out several broad goals and specific means to achieve them

To restore coastal habitat, for example, the report advises using strategic dredging and river diversions to rebuild the rapidly disappearing wetlands of the Mississippi Delta. It also proposes placing ecological restoration on equal footing with flood control and navigation interests in making Mississippi River management decisions.

Corps officials, who have been frequently criticized as ignoring such issues, were involved in the drafting of the strategy, but it remains to be seen whether they can follow these new guidelines with a few changes in policy or whether they will need Congressional authorization.

The report also puts a priority on improving water quality, particularly on countering the giant dead zone that develops in late spring in the Gulf of Mexico. Because the majority of the runoff that fosters the dead zone enters the river farther upstream, this would require the involvement of states that are far from the gulf, setting up significant jurisdictional and political hurdles.

While acknowledging the difficulties, Ms. Jackson said, “We shouldn’t be as a country moving away from thinking about big hard problems.”

The strategy also calls for, among other things, more monitoring of gulf species, the restoration of oyster and coral reefs and a reduction in emissions from oceangoing vessels.

Under the president’s plan, a permanent council would be established to carry out the task force’s strategy alongside federal and state agencies and existing organizations working on the gulf. Its activities would be funded in large part by Clean Water Act penalties stemming from the BP spill in 2010, the biggest in the nation’s history. The spill, resulting from a BP oil-well blowout, killed 11 people and spewed 200 million gallons of crude into the gulf.

The creation of the council, however, depends on Congressional passage of a bill making its way through the Senate that would direct four-fifths of the spill penalties toward coastal restoration. A similar version of the bill was introduced in the House on Wednesday.

The legislation has inched forward slowly, with states initially disagreeing about how the money should be divided up and whether it could be spent on economic projects, like a convention center, rather than exclusively on environmental restoration.

Some of these conflicting forces have been at work within the task force itself.

In a news conference on Wednesday, Garret Graves, the senior coastal adviser for Louisiana and the vice chairman of the task force, said that the strategy “seems to miss some of the gaping holes that are challenging us in southern Louisiana,” mentioning in particular a state-backed plan for an expanded levee system.

Nevertheless, he called the creation of the task force “a great step forward” as it laid out some of the most pressing issues the region faces.
257 2011-10-06 As Hemingway pointed out, sprinting ahead of a herd of snarling bulls certainly makes the faster. But so does what one must do before an American-style running of the bulls begins: sign an extremely comprehensive liability waiver.

Phil Immordino, who organized three bull runs in Nevada and Arizona a decade ago modeled on ’s famous running of the bulls in Pamplona, took a hiatus after costs rose so high that he could not turn a profit. But he is back at it this month in Cave Creek, a Western-style town north of .

Mr. Immordino expects hundreds of runners to sprint along a quarter-mile track while being pursued by dozens of 1,500-pound rodeo bulls with names like Blood Money and Dooms Day. Also expected are animal rights activists, who take a dim view of an event they find cruel on its face.

Before anyone runs, though, he or she is required to sign, and then sign some more.

“We have a seven-page waiver, and they need to initial every paragraph and every page,” said Mr. Immordino, a Phoenix native who also organizes tournaments. “It says you, your neighbor, your cousin and your cousin’s brother can’t sue anybody about any of this.”

Betsy Grey, an expert on tort law at the School of Law at , noted that liability waivers are never 100 percent ironclad, but that bull run participants would face a tough time winning a case. “Some people see this as romantic and Hemingway-esque,” she said. “I think it’s insane.”

Mr. Immordino said he and others involved in the run had plenty of insurance in case anything went awry. He has $1 million in coverage, he said, and the owner of the private land where he will run the bulls has another million. The owner of the bulls has additional insurance and the landowner has liability insurance on his property as well, he added. Just in case, there will be paramedics and rodeo clowns at the ready and escape routes are in place along the route to allow runners to veer away from bulls that get too close.
258 2011-10-06 The parent of the Friendly’s restaurant chain is filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection and has already closed 63 of its stores, the company said Wednesday.

The 76-year-old company, known for its ice cream and hamburgers, said the economic downturn coupled with higher costs and high rents drove it to file for bankruptcy protection.

Friendly Ice Cream Corporation, based in Wilbraham, Mass., said that it had secured $70 million in financing and that its 424 remaining restaurants would stay open as it reorganized under bankruptcy protection. Gift cards will continue to be honored.

It said the store closings and its reorganization efforts would better position it for the future.

Its current owners, Sun Capital Partners, will be the lead or “stalking horse” bidders in an auction process.
259 2011-10-06 While a periodic lattice could not produce that pattern, a quasicrystal could.

It took years for Dr. Shechtman to convince others.

During the announcement, the Nobel committee noted that one colleague initially said, “Go away, Danny,” because he thought there was a simpler explanation for what Dr. Shechtman had observed. Many scientists — notably Linus Pauling, the Nobel-winning giant of chemistry — argued vehemently that Dr. Shechtman’s data could be explained by “twinning,” where two ordinary periodic crystals are fused together at an angle.

“That must have been intimidating,” said Nancy B. Jackson, president of the American Chemical Society. “When he first discovered these materials, nobody thought they could exist. It was one of these great scientific stories that his fellow scientists thought was impossible, but through time, people came to realize he was right.”

Even the definition of crystal had to be changed. Previously, a crystal had been defined as having “a regularly ordered, repeating three-dimensional pattern,” according to the International Union of Crystallography. The new definition, adopted in 1992, states that a crystal is simply a solid with a “discrete diffraction diagram” — that is, something that produces patterns like the ones Dr. Shechtman saw.

That leaves the door open for yet more different kinds of crystals in the future. Quasicrystals have since been found in many other materials, including a naturally occurring mineral from a Russian river. Materials scientists have been exploring quasicrystals because of their distinct properties — they are hard, brittle, slippery and, unlike most metals, poor conductors of electricity.

Quasicrystals have so far had a modest impact in the everyday world. For example, one kind of highly resilient steel, consisting of hard steel quasicrystals embedded within softer steel, is now used in razor blades and thin needles for eye surgery.

“The applications haven’t panned out,” said Patricia A. Thiel, a colleague of Dr. Shechtman at Iowa State and Ames Laboratory who also studies quasicrystals. “But they revolutionized our understanding of how atoms arrange themselves in solids. It was a scientific revolution.”

Israeli leaders expressed delight and pride at the 10th Nobel Prize won by a citizen of Israel, which has a population of less than eight million. Two years ago, Ada E. Yonath of the Weizmann Institute of Science in Rehovot, Israel, shared the award for chemistry as well.

, Israel’s president, spoke by telephone to Dr. Shechtman at a news conference in Haifa and said, “Professor Shechtman, you today brought an enormous gift to the State of Israel, truly.” Prime Minister also called and told him, “Every Israeli is happy today, and every Jew in the world is proud.”

Dr. Shechtman was born and educated in Israel. At the news conference, he said, “The celebration is not only for the Technion and the State of Israel but also for science worldwide. There are today thousands of scientists around the world working in this field that I developed, and I am certain they all see this prize as their accomplishment and they really deserve it. Without these thousands, this science would not be where it is today.”

Dr. Shechtman added, “The main lesson that I have learned over time is that a good scientist is a humble and listening scientist and not one that is sure 100 percent in what he reads in the textbooks.”
260 2011-10-06 “Fear just can’t stay up that high that long,” said Randy Warren, an investment manager at Warren Financial Service.

Stocks in Asia continued the trend in early trading Thursday. The benchmark index in Tokyo was up about 2 percent and that in Hong Kong was up about 4 percent.

Still, the S.& P., seen as a broad indicator of the market as a whole, is down more than 9 percent for the year.

The energy sector gained as benchmark crude oil futures for November delivery rose 5.3 percent to $79.68 a barrel. Chevron was up $3.18, more than 3 percent, at $94.66, and ExxonMobil rose more than 1 percent to $73.95. Economic data released Wednesday gave a few hopeful signs for the American economy.

Monsanto rose $3.30, or 5 percent, to $66.25, after reporting that its quarterly results, while a loss for the period, were better than Wall Street expected and that its corn sales rose 58 percent.

Costco also reported results and its stock fell $1.40, to $80.25, after reporting that its profit was hurt by rising costs and fell one cent short of analysts’ estimates.

A report by the Institute for Supply Management showed that nonmanufacturing businesses continued to grow in September, but at a lower rate than in August. The index registered 53 percent, in line with analysts’ expectations. A figure above 50 percent indicates growth. New orders increased 3.7 percentage points, a possible sign of strengthening performance.

However, the report also registered a contraction in employment after 12 consecutive months of growth. The index’s level for employment registered 48.7 percent, down 2.9 percentage points. Prices also increased at a slower rate in September.

Kathy Jones, a fixed-income strategist at Charles Schwab, said the data probably reflected persistent reluctance among businesses to be too aggressive.

“Maybe we got some good orders right now, but we’re not confident with that trend continuing,” she said.

A separate report on employment from ADP Employer Services showed that private employers added 91,000 jobs in September at a seasonally adjusted level, slightly better than analysts’ expectations.

Some economists see the report as a hint of what to expect on Friday when the Labor Department publishes its September jobs data. The government’s job report is considered one of the most important indicators of the health of the national economy. Analysts expect it to show 65,000 new jobs for the month.

Interest rates were higher. The Treasury’s benchmark 10-year note fell 22/32, to 102 3/32, and the yield rose to 1.89 percent from 1.82 percent late Tuesday.

Investors latched onto reports that European officials are working on a plan to recapitalize the Continent’s banks, and stocks continued to gain in Europe.

The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, said she would push for more capital to protect her nation’s banks, while European banking regulators said they would conduct new “stress tests” to identify the region’s most vulnerable financial institutions.

The Euro Stoxx 50 index, a gauge of blue-chip shares in the euro zone, closed up 4.22 percent. In London, the FTSE 100 closed up 3.19 percent.

The dollar was relatively stable, with the euro trading at $1.3344.
261 2011-10-06 This is like a toned-down pecan pie in bar form....
262 2011-10-06 UPDATE, 6:35 p.m.: Sarah Palin is not running for president.     Ms. Palin, the former governor of Alaska, ended her inscrutable cat-and-mouse game with the political establishment on Wednesday  afternoon by saying that she would not join the fiel...
263 2011-10-06 BIGAR--Raymond Raymond Bigar died peacefully at home at the age of 97 years, on Thursday, September 29th, 2011. He was born in Lausanne, Switzerland and was an officer in the Swiss cavalry. He moved to The United States in his early 30s. He retire...
264 2011-10-07 It was do or die for St. Louis and Philadelphia at Citizens Bank Park. Did the squirrel make the trip?...
265 2011-10-07 It is do or die for St. Louis and Philadelphia at Citizens Bank Park. Did the squirrel make the trip?...
266 2011-10-07 Tony La Russa, the manager of the St. Louis Cardinals, and Jim Leyland, the manager of the Detroit Tigers, have concluded that there were certain advantages to being the underdog and visiting team in an elimination game....
267 2011-10-07 Tony La Russa, the manager of the St. Louis Cardinals, and Jim Leyland, the manager of the Detroit Tigers, have concluded that there were certain advantages to being the underdog and visiting team in an elimination game....
268 2011-10-07 The new Nissan Quest is clearly aimed at giving customers the conventional minivan experience they seem to want: family transportation that is comfortable and versatile....
269 2011-10-07 The new Nissan Quest is clearly aimed at giving customers the conventional minivan experience they seem to want: family transportation that is comfortable and versatile....
270 2011-10-07 A look at ticket, beer and hot dog prices at Major League Baseball stadiums, courtesy of Webstrauntstore.com....
271 2011-10-07 A look at ticket, beer and hot dog prices at Major League Baseball stadiums, courtesy of Webstrauntstore.com....
272 2011-10-07 Nickelodeon, citing "huge gains" in ratings, will begin airing its "The '90s Are All That" programming block at 10 p.m. rather than midnight....
273 2011-10-07 Nickelodeon, citing "huge gains" in ratings, will begin airing its "The '90s Are All That" programming block at 10 p.m. rather than midnight....
274 2011-10-07 Orlando Marin started his first band when he was 16. Sixty years later, he is still playing, and what he plays is the mambo....
275 2011-10-07 Orlando Marin started his first band when he was 16. Sixty years later, he is still playing, and what he plays is the mambo....
276 2011-10-07 But the turn against staple-financing appears to be an overreaction -- the arrangement just needs to be fully disclosed and above board....
277 2011-10-07 But the turn against staple-financing appears to be an overreaction -- the arrangement just needs to be fully disclosed and above board....
278 2011-10-07 Lee Clow, an advertising executive who worked for decades with Apple on commercials like the iconic "1984" Super Bowl ad, has paid tribute to Steven P.  Jobs, who died on Wednesday....
279 2011-10-07 Lee Clow, an advertising executive who worked for decades with Apple on commercials like the iconic "1984" Super Bowl ad, has paid tribute to Steven P. Jobs, who died on Wednesday....
280 2011-10-07 Full-length videos from the first two TimesOpen events, HTML5 and Beyond, and Innovating Developer Culture, are now available....
281 2011-10-07 Clarification of Response (if Necessary):

Clarification of Response (if Necessary):

Clarification of Response (if Necessary):

Clarification of Response (if Necessary):

Clarification of Response (if Necessary):

Clarification of Response (if Necessary):

Clarification of Response (if Necessary):

Clarification of Response (if Necessary):

Clarification of Response (if Necessary):

Clarification of Response (if Necessary):

Clarification of Response (if Necessary):

Clarification of Response (if Necessary):

6. Federal Exemption(s) and Exclusion(s) Claimed (select all that apply)

9. Type(s) of Securities Offered (select all that apply)

Clarification of Response (if Necessary):

Clarification of Response (if Necessary):

Provide separately the amounts of sales commissions and finders fees expenses, if any. If the amount of an expenditure is not known, provide an estimate and check the box next to the amount.

Clarification of Response (if Necessary):

Provide the amount of the gross proceeds of the offering that has been or is proposed to be used for payments to any of the persons required to be named as executive officers, directors or promoters in response to Item 3 above. If the amount is unknown, provide an estimate and check the box next to the amount.

Clarification of Response (if Necessary):

Please verify the information you have entered and review the Terms of Submission below before signing and clicking SUBMIT below to file this notice.

Each Issuer identified above has read this notice, knows the contents to be true, and has duly caused this notice to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized person.

For signature, type in the signer's name or other letters or characters adopted or authorized as the signer's signature.

Persons who respond to the collection of information contained in this form are not required to respond unless the form displays a currently valid OMB number.

* This undertaking does not affect any limits Section 102(a) of the National Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996 ("NSMIA") [Pub. L. No. 104-290, 110 Stat. 3416 (Oct. 11, 1996)] imposes on the ability of States to require information. As a result, if the securities that are the subject of this Form D are "covered securities" for purposes of NSMIA, whether in all instances or due to the nature of the offering that is the subject of this Form D, States cannot routinely require offering materials under this undertaking or otherwise and can require offering materials only to the extent NSMIA permits them to do so under NSMIA's preservation of their anti-fraud authority.
282 2011-10-07 Teenagers always seem to be hungry, but they also always seem to be busy, with no time to eat. Martha Rose Shulman offers a solution in this week's Recipes for Health: tasty and nutritious cookies and bars that busy teenagers can eat on the run....
283 2011-10-07 Teenagers always seem to be hungry, but they also always seem to be busy, with no time to eat. Martha Rose Shulman offers a solution in this week's Recipes for Health: tasty and nutritious cookies and bars that busy teenagers can eat on the run....
284 2011-10-07 Netflix, in a deal announced Friday with AMC, will begin streaming the first season of "The Walking Dead."...
285 2011-10-07 Netflix, in a deal announced Friday with AMC, will begin streaming the first season of "The Walking Dead."...
286 2011-10-07 IN 1980, Steve Jobs went to a brown-bag lunch at Stanford business school, looking for summer help. Other Apple executives were busy explaining what a personal computer was when he sauntered in; they stopped mid-sentence as, dressed in a vest, jeans and Birkenstock sandals, he settled himself, cross-legged, on top of a desk. He looked as if he were about to hold a yoga class. Then he began to talk, instead, about revolutionizing the world.

Some four or five students heeded his call, including my husband-to-be, David O’Connor. This was less than half the number who signed up to work for Hewlett-Packard, but never mind. That summer job became a full-time job when David graduated, and a kind of dream. Apple, back then, had a hot-air balloon. It had a race car. When the second “Star Wars” movie opened, Apple bought out a theater so the whole company could go. A friend’s father called a job at Apple the worst possible thing that could happen to a young person, as everything that followed was bound to be a disappointment. And perhaps that was true.

But, of course, it was exciting in a way even an onlooking writer could understand — strangely familiar, too, as if it were being run by a cousin. Apple was, for example, antiestablishment, as all writers are. It was anti-DEC and anti-I.B.M, a harborer of an anti-acronym acrimony that writers, naturally, shared. What’s more, Steve Jobs’s perfectionism made perfect sense to people like me: Of course, he sweated every detail; of course he drove others mad. He was a J. D. Salinger who, weirdly, knew computing.

Was this why the Apple computer felt like a thing worth trying to write on? Though I would never have thought to use a word processor — those were for offices — I was open to the Apple II, and first worked on one at David’s apartment in the fall of 1980. The screen was black and the type green, and there were only 40 characters per line. But you could insert things; you did not have to retype an entire page if you had a new line of dialogue. And, equally exciting: you could delete things.

More important, you worked with that little blinking cursor before you. No one in the world particularly cared if you wrote and, of course, you knew the computer didn’t care, either. But it was waiting for you to type something. It was not inert and passive, like the page. It was listening. It was your ally. It was your audience. And with it — on it — whatever — you could try things. You were not wasting paper; you were not making a racket. You were not even writing, exactly, as no one you knew wrote this way. Everything you’d read as an English major was far, far away; words like “the literary tradition” belonged to another galaxy. It was just you and this little blinking light, which somehow made you feel like it was always the middle of the night. But for the on-off switch, you would never have called the computer a machine.

Later, at the Iowa Writers’ Workshop, I used a typewriter. But whenever I visited David in California, I wrote on his computer. I did not hide the fact that I did this, but I did not advertise it, either: “real writers,” many believed, used paper and pencil. O.K., so fiction writers, hacks that we were, used typewriters. But computers were suspect. Some writers I knew used the university mainframe to prepare manuscripts, but they typically doctored their pages before sending them out to magazines. They whited things out here and there, and made corrections by pen. They turned a page upside down, or rumpled the pages a little. In short, they tried to make their stories look as though they’d been, not printed, but typed.
287 2011-10-07 Some bears are betting that Hungary will suffer the same foreign investor strike that led to bailouts for Greece, Ireland and Portugal....
288 2011-10-07 Some bears are betting that Hungary will suffer the same foreign investor strike that led to bailouts for Greece, Ireland and Portugal....
289 2011-10-07 Back to 2007 levels....
290 2011-10-07 Back to 2007 levels....
291 2011-10-07 When the sisters took over, "it was kind of a free-for-all and nobody knew what to do."...
292 2011-10-07 When the sisters took over, "it was kind of a free-for-all and nobody knew what to do."...
293 2011-10-07 A new exhibition at the Grand Palais in Paris focuses its attention on the history of toys, from antiquity to the present day....
294 2011-10-07 A new exhibition at the Grand Palais in Paris focuses its attention on the history of toys, from antiquity to the present day....
295 2011-10-07 A manager at GO Lorrie’s, one of the largest passenger shuttle companies at San Francisco International Airport, solicited and reimbursed as much as $8,000 in contributions from employees to the election campaign of interim Mayor Edwin M. Lee, employees told The Bay Citizen this week.

If so, such actions may violate the California Political Reform Act, which prohibits donors from channeling money through others to sidestep contribution limits.

City records show that 16 GO Lorrie’s employees — including drivers, dispatchers and a clerk — gave $500 each to Mr. Lee’s campaign, the maximum allowed under city law. No other business had as many employees contribute to the mayor.

Two GO Lorrie’s drivers, Darrin Yuan and Paul Hsu, both of San Francisco, independently said in interviews that they had donated to Mr. Lee because a manager, Jason Perez, promised to reimburse them. The workers did not know whether the manager was acting on his own or on behalf of the company.

Mr. Perez, who also gave $500 to Mr. Lee, denied that any employees were solicited. He said he personally supported Mr. Lee but declined to discuss his subordinates’ contributions.
296 2011-10-07 Ichiro Ozawa, a power broker for the governing party, denied any wrongdoing on Thursday as he went on trial in a political financing scandal. Mr. Ozawa, who engineered the Democratic Party’s rise to power in 2009, is accused of overseeing false accounting by aides in a 2004 land deal. Prosecutors say he was aware of false bookkeeping to cover up questionable funds.
297 2011-10-07 Ross Ramsey, the managing editor at The Texas Tribune, writes a column for The Tribune.

You’re a university regent. An empty front office means you and your fellow board members need a new chancellor, someone to run the business side so your president, an academician who has written 137 scholarly articles and 4 books, can concentrate on education.

Your operation burns through money, and the new chief’s job will be to find more of it. If yours is a private school, that means the boss will be occupied with catering to affluent people — alumni, parents of students and alumni parents of students. Oh, and people who’ll sponsor the kind of research or specialties featured at the institution, whether they or their children went to school there or not.

It’s a public institution? The biggest pot of money is the government’s, and your chancellor will need to cater to legislators and budget wonks who parcel it out and who have to choose, sometimes, between your school and five other public systems in the state.

The key trait for a new chancellor? The ability to attract money.

Four of the current chancellors of public university systems in Texas once held state office, as did three of their predecessors. The head of private Baylor University in Waco, Kenneth Starr, made his name as a lawyer who worked on high-profile public cases including the investigation and eventual impeachment of Bill Clinton, then the president.

John Sharp, who served in the state’s House and Senate, on its Railroad Commission and as its comptroller of public accounts, is the latest picture on this wall; he was named chancellor of the Texas A&M University System last month, succeeding Dr. Mike McKinney, a physician who served in the Texas House, as head of the Health and Human Services Commission and as chief of staff to Gov. Rick Perry.
298 2011-10-07 A dissection of Apple’s market share in the United States....
299 2011-10-07 “If you just wait for consumers to tell you what to do, you’ll never be an Apple,” he added.

Allen DeBevoise, chairman and chief executive of Machinima, spoke of Mr. Jobs’s rare ability to combine “the technological prowess, the design and brand focus and the scale to innovate faster.”

Because of the revolution fueled by Apple, Mr. DeBevoise said, marketers no longer need to think in terms of millions of households with TV sets, but can instead advertise on “a billion devices” with screens displaying video content.

Frank Cooper, chief consumer engagement officer of PepsiCo, prefaced his remarks with some background: “Pepsi has a history with Apple. It’s not a great one.”

The reference was to the question Mr. Jobs asked that helped lure John Sculley from Pepsi-Cola, where Mr. Sculley was chief executive, to become Apple’s chief executive: “Do you want to spend the rest of your life selling sugared water, or do you want a chance to change the world?”

Mr. Jobs also endured “a lot of failures,” Mr. Cooper said, like the Lisa personal computer, but later inspired Apple’s employees to come back with successes like the iPod, iPhone and iPad.

“For a packaged-goods company like Pepsi, smartphones change everything,” Mr. Cooper said, because in the past “our last point of contact” with consumers before they bought products was often media like billboards and radio.

Now, contact becomes “a continuing process,” he added, with options like text messages and even “augmented reality, superimposing digital content at the shelf.”

Michael Wolff, editorial director of Adweek, said he admired how “implacable” Mr. Jobs was in his decision not to license Apple’s software to other hardware makers. “There was not a person in the world who thought” that was the right strategy, Mr. Wolff said, but Mr. Jobs’s mantra was “I don’t waver.”

Apple “is so ingrained, so ubiquitous, so part of everything we do,” Mr. Wolff said, that it “probably has a generation in which it’s dominant” after Mr. Jobs’s passing.

As for Mr. Wolff’s own future, he said: “I have a job. I am still employed. That story may be different if you ask me or The New York Post an hour from now.”

That was a reference to articles in The Post, and on gawker.com, reporting that Prometheus Global Media, the owner of Adweek, has decided to replace him, a year after his hiring and six months after Adweek, an advertising trade publication, was revamped to be more focused on media coverage and styled more like a general-interest magazine.

“There is a discussion going on in my company over what this magazine should be,” Mr. Wolff told Richard Kirshenbaum, chairman of Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners, who moderated a question-and-answer session with Mr. Wolff.

One side “wants a magazine that tells a smaller story, the traditional ad trade magazine story, who’s winning what accounts,” Mr. Wolff said, adding, “I would not want to tell” that story.

“I hope that by doing what we do, they get comfortable with it,” Mr. Wolff said, referring to those who want to change Adweek back. On the other hand, he added, “it’s their money, and you have to be comfortable how you spend it.”

There were also events that did not include discussions of Mr. Jobs or Apple.

One was a panel, sponsored by Univision Communications, devoted to marketing to the growing ranks of Hispanic consumers who are bilingual.

Bernie Williams, the former New York Yankees outfielder, talked about his personal process of acculturation, which began when he left Puerto Rico to play baseball. Mr. Williams recalled how television shows like “Que Pasa USA,” a bilingual series on PBS, helped him learn English.

For Mr. Williams’s children, he said, the process is different: he and his wife make sure they understand Spanish and appreciate Hispanic food and culture. “But they’re American,” Mr. Williams said.

Advertising to bicultural Latinos is tricky for many marketers, said Tony Pace, chief marketing officer for Subway.

Subway has determined that “we need to seem like the same brand when we are doing Spanish-language communication,” Mr. Pace said. So the phrase “$5 Footlong,” referring to the popular sandwich, is used in commercials in Spanish as well as English.

At Macy’s, said Martine Reardon, executive vice president for marketing and advertising, there is an evolution of its strategy to reach the critical Hispanic shopper.

For example, Ms. Reardon said, Macy’s changed in-store marketing materials for Lancôme to add products and spokeswomen that appeal more to Latina customers.

It was a way of telling that customer, “We get it. We recognize you,” Ms. Reardon said.

Advertising Week 2011, which began on Monday, concludes on Friday.
300 2011-10-07 Achieving a more respectable 15 percent would have required cutting the compensation ratio to 33 percent, a bit lower than in 2009. Lower pay might have encouraged some to leave, though rivals weren’t exactly swimming in money, and over all, Goldman would still have squirreled away an average of $179,000 per employee.

The other option, of course, is to cut its staff. That move also has costs, though, especially with more stock payouts that take years to vest. Keeping average pay higher in the first six months with a shallower compensation pool would have meant showing a quarter of employees the door, undermining morale and the ability to satisfy clients.

Goldman may yet hold out longer before trimming pay. But with no obvious signs of business picking up, bankers and traders may need to get used to the idea of sacrificing more of their waning spoils to keep shareholders on board.

Europe’s banks may need to retake their summer exams. Regulators are seeking ways to inject more capital into the region’s troubled lenders.

One potential quick fix is to use the same data as was used in July’s discredited stress tests, but to also impose markdowns on sovereign debt. Still, this wouldn’t be enough. The authorities should also raise the minimum capital ratio that banks need to clear.

The flaw in July’s tests was that banks did not have to mark down the government bonds they hold at face value. As a result, only eight of the European Union’s 90 largest lenders flunked the exam, with a capital shortfall of just 2.5 billion euros. Since then, worries about sovereign debt have spread from Greece and Portugal to Spain and Italy, threatening a systemic crisis.

Ideally, regulators would conduct another test. But that would take months, and Europe does not have the luxury of time. An alternative is to rerun the tests with the same data, while forcing the banks to mark all sovereign bonds to current market prices.

In that case, 18 banks would fail, with a capital hole of 40 billion euros, according to calculations by Breakingviews. But even that wouldn’t restore confidence. The International Monetary Fund puts the capital shortfall of European banks at 100 billion to 200 billion euros. Some analysts have come up with even higher numbers.

To address these concerns, regulators should simultaneously raise the minimum core Tier 1 capital ratio that banks need to clear. If it was raised to 7 percent from July’s 5 percent, more than half of the 90 banks involved in the tests would need a combined 98 billion euros of extra capital.

Problems could arise from this approach. But as a quick way to restore confidence in Europe’s banking system, imposing a tougher test may be worth a try.
301 2011-10-07 The book will also appeal to admirers of Mr. Isaacson, who has written acclaimed biographies of Benjamin Franklin and Henry Kissinger.

“The reason I think it’s going to be so important is that it’s not an instant book,” said Elaine Petrocelli, the owner of Book Passage, a bookstore with two outlets in the Bay Area. “This is a book that Isaacson has worked on and has his full knowledge and what he brings to a book.”

It will also appeal to a wide range of readers, not just those passionate about technology, Ms. Petrocelli said. “My children who are starting their careers are fascinated with him, and they’ll want to read it, and I want to read it,” she said. “I see it as a great Christmas present. I think everyone will want it.”

Despite some anti-Apple sentiment in Portland, Gerry Donaghy, a book buyer at Powell’s, said he expected the book to sell hundreds of copies, hardly small change at the $35 hardcover list price.

“There is a lot of naysaying about the ‘cult of Apple’ and whatnot, but as the major media is highlighting how he really changed consumers’ relationships with computers, technology, music and movies, I think more folks will be interested,” Mr. Donaghy said in an e-mail.

Interest in the book was not limited to big cities on the coasts. Jessilynn Norcross, an owner of McLean & Eakin Booksellers in Petoskey, Mich., said the store had already printed small posters to hang on the registers, gently publicizing the book. They read: “iSad :(.”

“If anybody wants to order, this is our way of telling them about it without being obnoxious,” she said. “You know your customers are going to want it, but you don’t want to be insensitive. It’s a sad day.”

Mr. Isaacson had the cooperation of Mr. Jobs, who granted more than 40 interviews over two years as he battled pancreatic cancer. Mr. Isaacson, the chief executive of the Aspen Institute, also conducted interviews with Mr. Jobs’s family members and colleagues.

The book was originally announced by Simon & Schuster in April, bearing the title “iSteve: The Book of Jobs,” and scheduled for a spring 2012 publication. Simon & Schuster later moved up the release date to November and changed the title to “Steve Jobs.”

The publisher has said that Mr. Jobs did not ask for control over the content of the book, and that Mr. Jobs spoke “candidly, sometimes brutally so, about the people he worked with and competed against.”
302 2011-10-07 Before he died, Steven P. Jobs transformed the company that he co-founded from one that primarily made personal computers into a consumer electronics giant.
303 2011-10-07 On a recent Pet Airways flight from Republic Airport in East Farmingdale, N.Y., 5 of the 15 canine passengers were brachycephalic breeds, including Louie. In the terminal, wealthy and middle-class pet owners crossed paths. The scene at the check-in counter was certainly unusual: a bulldog and pug panted as they waited behind Louie and his owner, Rusty Rueff.

“We always make a joke: He flies private and we fly commercial,” Mr. Rueff’s wife, Patti Rueff, said.

Mr. Rueff handed over Louie’s blue blanket and a plastic bag with his dog food and Pepcid AC. A Pet Airways worker gave Louie his boarding pass: a paper collar, wrapped around the dog’s neck. Louie responded by sending heart-wrenching glances toward his owner, seeming to protest his abandonment. But Mr. Rueff, who was rushing to catch his own flight on American Airlines that night, said the dog’s well-being outweighed any feelings of guilt, even with the $840 price for a one-way cross-country ticket.

“If he throws up or gets sick or goes bonkers, there’s going to be a human being there,” Mr. Rueff said. “That makes it worth it for us; we’re paying for peace of mind.”

Airlines have always had varying restrictions on animal travel. There are a few carriers, like Alaska Airlines, Frontier Airlines, Hawaiian Airlines and Sun Country, that still allow brachycephalic breeds to fly in cargo. And most animals are generally allowed to fly in the passenger cabin if they weigh less than 20 pounds, as some French bulldogs and many pugs do.

But the clear trend among commercial airlines is toward an outright ban on brachycephalic breeds.

American Airlines banned brachycephalic breeds of dogs and cats shortly after four bulldogs died on its planes in a three-month period in 2010. Delta stopped accepting French, English and American bulldogs this year, after three bulldogs died from January to March.

United and Continental Airlines, which had two bulldogs die in their care this spring, banned brachycephalic dog breeds from flying during the summer, lifting the restriction on Sept. 16, when temperatures began to drop.

According to the federal Agriculture Department, 189 animals died on commercial flights from June 2005 to June 2011; of those animals, 98 — more than half — were brachycephalic breeds.

The breeds, which also include Persian and Himalayan cats, have smaller openings to their noses and elongated soft palates on the roofs of their mouths, which make breathing more difficult for them, veterinarians said. Those breathing problems can be magnified in stressful situations like air travel, and further exacerbated in extreme heat.

The airlines’ growing no-fly lists have set off a debate between pet owners and veterinarians about whether these dogs should fly at all.

Some veterinarians who have operated on the dogs to open up their nasal passages said that surgery could help somewhat with breathing and perhaps make flying safer. Other veterinarians refuse to sign medical paperwork allowing the dogs to fly in cargo.

“I’m seeing more people who want to travel with their pets in the last 10 years,” said Amy Attas, a veterinarian who runs a house call service, City Pets. “The first conversation I have with people is, ‘Why are you bringing your dog in the first place?’ Every veterinarian has known: don’t fly a brachycephalic dog, because dogs regulate their body temperatures through their noses.”

Many bulldog owners only drive their dogs. Robert Rodenski, president of the Bulldog Club of America, said the club encouraged owners to rent motor homes and drive to their conferences, even if they were traveling cross country. For the club’s November show in Vienna, Va., Mr. Rodenski said some bulldog owners from California were sharing campers and splitting the driving.

“Our folks have gone more to motor homes,” Mr. Rodenski said, describing how his fellow bulldog owners travel. “They realize that there are problems with shipping any dog on an airline.”

Even university mascots are not immune.

Butler University’s 63-pound mascot, an English bulldog named Butler Blue II, flew twice in 2010. But his owner, Michael Kaltenmark, said that on the first flight, from Indianapolis to a Duke University men’s basketball game in New Jersey, the bulldog traveled in the pressurized cabin of a Southwest Airlines plane chartered by the team. On the second flight, to a Final Four game in Houston, the dog flew in the cabin on a private flight.

“If we had to fly him in the cargo hold, we would have just driven,” Mr. Kaltenmark said.

One of the nation’s best-known bulldog mascots, Uga, from the University of Georgia, seems to be coping with the new restrictions. Uga typically flies on short-haul private flights to football games, and when he flies commercial, he uses Delta, his owner Sonny Seiler said.

Even though Delta has banned most bulldogs, an airline spokesman, Anthony Black, said Uga could fly in the cabin because the airline classified him as a “high-profile animal,” like the Target mascot, Bullseye. (There have been eight English bulldogs deemed worthy of being an Uga; the previous one died after only three months on the throne.)

But Uga’s handler must buy first-class tickets for himself and the dog to fly.

In any case, Mr. Seiler said he had options for Uga, whose role is currently being filled by a stand-in, Russ.

“If they felt uncomfortable, then doesn’t matter,” Mr. Seiler said of Delta’s new policy. “We will fly him in another way. We will fly him in a private plane.”
304 2011-10-07 In “The Sons of Tennessee Williams,” the documentarian Tim Wolff tracks a half-century of the gay civil-rights movement through the lens of Mardi Gras celebrations in New Orleans.

Starting in 1959, groups of gay men began discreetly to charter social clubs called krewes, transforming the momentary license and briefly relaxed laws during Mardi Gras into public explosions of an underground culture. Like the camp tradition of which it partakes, the krewes’ lightly debauched and thoroughly colorful balls were both an irreverent spoof of aristocratic tradition and a deadly serious protest against social injustice.

Stage shows presented to formally attired audiences typically culminate in the coronation of a king and a queen, a pageant that pushes the performance of drag to baroque heights. Costumes approaching the architectural dimensions of parade floats have occasionally grown wider than the runway itself, and the annual one-upmanship has been matched by an equally excessive attention to detail, with each sequin and ostrich feather as lovingly placed as on any work of high couture.

As the film cuts back and forth between the present day and a historical survey of gay culture, its tone wavers between dutifully somber and irrepressibly funny, as when one participant describes his reaction to a police raid: “I immediately thought, ‘My responsibility is for the queen.’ ”

The talking-head testimonials succeed one another so quickly that it becomes difficult to track individual personalities, a structural problem that works to dissolve unique stories into the collective memory of an era destined to remain slightly out of focus.

Written, produced, directed and edited by Tim Wolff; director of photography, Eric Adkins; released by First Run Features. At the Quad Cinema, 34 West 13th Street, Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 15 minutes. This film is not rated.
305 2011-10-07 Fighters for truth, justice and American eccentricity are celebrated in Michael Barnett’s “Superheroes,” a benign documentary portrait of costumed crusaders across the country, chasing evildoers. Among them are Zimmer, leader of the New York Initiative, a team of crime busters conducting late-night “bait patrols” on Brooklyn streets; Mr. Xtreme, a paunchy San Diego security guard camping in his van and wearing a helmet, a cape and goggles; the aging, ebullient Master Legend of Orlando, Fla.; and Thanatos, a 62-year-old in Vancouver, British Columbia, with a black hat, a fearsome green countenance and jeans.

These subjects may parade in peculiar attire, but they are serious about their mission, and Mr. Barnett appropriately renders them without condescension. It’s not all about physical combat: Zetaman and Apocalypse Meow, a married couple in Portland, Ore., dispense necessities to the homeless. Zimmer assists a hit-and-run victim, while Dark Guardian accosts drug dealers in Washington Square Park in New York.

Nice animated transitions, a glimpse of Comic-Con International in San Diego and appearances by Stan Lee, the indefatigable figurehead of Marvel Comics, lend fanboy credibility, while Lt. Andra Brown of the San Diego Police Department offers a sensible law-enforcement perspective. Think of “Superheroes” as a real-life “Kick-Ass,” with more community outreach and far less acute injury.

Also playing is “Hello Caller,” an amusing, six-minute two-hander about a crisis hot line, starring Tom Lenk, who portrayed an endearingly geeky villain on “Buffy the Vampire Slayer.”

Directed by Michael Barnett; written by Mr. Barnett and Theodore James; edited by Doug Blush, Derek Boonstra and Jeff Chen; music by Ceiri Torjussen; produced by Mr. James; released by Slamdance on the Road. Shown with a six-minute short, Andrew Putschoegl’s “Hello Caller” at the IFC Center, 323 Avenue of the Americas, at Third Street, Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. This film is not rated.
306 2011-10-07 Everybody talks about food — especially on that new ABC chatterfest, “The Chew” — but nobody does anything about it. Oh, sure, someone might show you how to make a caramelized onion tart with olives or bake a cake in the shape of a Viking ship, but is anyone telling you what you really want to know, which is how to have a Cinnabon roll for breakfast without having to get out of your pajamas and drive to a Cinnabon?

Yes, actually. His name is Todd Wilbur, and for years, in print and the occasional television guest appearance, he has been trying to decode the recipes on which food franchises have been built. On Friday night on CMT, he begins doing so on a weekly series, “Top Secret Recipe.” This is decidedly not a highbrow cooking show, as you can tell from the fact that Mr. Wilbur spends part of the premiere in a Dumpster.

The gimmick, delivered with a refreshing silliness, is that each week Mr. Wilbur takes some famous but well-guarded marquee recipe and tries to duplicate it, through a combination of stealth, science and educated guesswork. In the opening episode the target is original Kentucky Fried Chicken — you know, the 11 herbs and spices thing. (Cinnabon gets its turn in Episode 2.)

The premise is spurious — if you want to know what’s in the chicken, all you really have to do is send a leg of it over to Abby’s lab on “NCIS” — but Mr. Wilbur, who calls himself a food hacker, has great fun spinning it out. On a tour of the KFC headquarters, he steals a cook’s gloves from the kitchen. He tries to pry information out of a longtime assistant to Harland Sanders, the chain’s founder. And, yes, he plunges into a trash bin in search of packaging that might hold clues.

Throughout, he is cooking chicken, taking a bite, then going back to the drawing board. At the show’s end, he puts his best shot in front of some taste testers, along with a bucket of actual KFC.

Various food factoids (“foodtoids,” the show calls them) pop up on the screen at points in the show. One in the premiere is, “A chicken loses its feathers when it becomes stressed.” A lot of feathers may be shed if chickens watch this show to the end: viewers are invited to go to the CMT Web site to try out Mr. Wilbur’s version of the recipe themselves.
307 2011-10-07 One thing you quickly realize when you sit down to watch “The Way”: Martin Sheen is a very compelling actor. Another thing you realize more slowly as the film goes along: His oldest son, Emilio Estevez, is a very sensitive director.

Mr. Estevez is both writer and director of this film, and also turns up in a small role, but he gives the spotlight to his father, who makes quite a lot out of a low-key story that could easily have degenerated into mush. Mr. Sheen plays an ophthalmologist named Tom, whose only son, Daniel (Mr. Estevez), dies in severe weather in the Pyrenees while trying to walk the Way of St. James (also known as the Camino de Santiago), a pilgrimage of hundreds of miles that ends in northwest Spain at a cathedral where the Apostle James is said to be buried.

Tom goes to retrieve his son’s body and ends up walking the pilgrimage himself, scattering Daniel’s ashes along the way. Mr. Sheen gives a lovely performance as the no-nonsense doctor, and he gets wonderful support from actors playing fellow travelers who befriend Tom: Yorick van Wageningen as a verbose Dutchman, Deborah Kara Unger as an acid-tongued woman trying to quit smoking, and James Nesbitt as an Irishman with writer’s block.

This is not an “inspirational film” in the usual, syrupy sense; none of these people are overtly finding God on this trek. The beauty of the movie, in fact, is that Mr. Estevez does not make explicit what any of them find, beyond friendship. He lets these four fine actors convey that true personal transformations are not announced with fanfare, but happen internally.

Written and directed by Emilio Estevez; director of photography, Juanmi Azpiroz; edited by Raúl Dávalos; music by Tyler Bates; art direction by Víctor Molero; costumes by Tatiana Hernández; produced by Mr. Estevez and David Alexanian; released by Producers Distribution Agency and Arc Entertainment. Running time: 1 hour 55 minutes. This film is not rated.
308 2011-10-07 Jordan, though, was still around to speak for himself. Payton died of bile duct cancer in 1999, gone too soon at 45, the myth of indestructibility shattered. Pearlman’s critics see themselves as Payton’s defenders, the staunchest and most vociferous being Mike Ditka, Payton’s coach for six of his 13 Bears seasons. Ditka offered to spit on Pearlman or, better yet, grind him into ashes as he would one of his used-up cigars for — of all things — trying to make money off Payton’s popularity.

Did someone say money? Let us pause here to acknowledge Da Coach as the most popular and indiscriminate product pitchman in Chicago history — “Hey gang, try this Coach-brand sand on your food instead of table salt!” Ditka has a poor kid’s appreciation for the dollar and is as adept at making money as he was playing or certainly coaching football.

And while Ditka’s oft-stated admiration for “Walder” is no doubt genuine, his refusal to reward Payton’s years of distinguished service with an easy touchdown in Super Bowl XX will always be a puzzler.

So was his anger over a book he hadn’t read — not even the excerpt. Then again, impetuous volatility has always been part of Da Coach’s charm. In this case it’s badly misplaced.

Pearlman did not set out to expose Payton but to understand him, to identify and define the qualities that made him so appealing. He was a football-playing hero to millions, true, but he was also a human being of considerable complexity. There’s a story in how those two sides intersected, and a skilled biographer gets to that story.

That’s the author’s mission here. A blanket condemnation of the book based on one salacious excerpt overlooks the good parts of the Walter Payton story.

While still a teenager, Payton was credited with helping to desegregate the public schools in his home town, Columbia, Miss. — whites wanted to go to school with him because he was such a good guy. His relationship with his wife, Connie, is strictly their business; what matters is that it produced two bright, engaged, grounded children who are committed to keeping their father’s memory alive through the Walter and Connie Payton Foundation.

The foundation’s work, along with dozens of random, unpublicized acts of kindness that the book details, is one reason the N.F.L. Man of the Year award carries Payton’s name. A mopey, drug-addled adulterer who drifts through life seeking meaning doesn’t leave that legacy.

I didn’t worship at the shrine of Payton as faithfully as most Chicagoans because I was living in California while he was captivating Bears fans. I admired him from afar, of course — a football follower had to — but truth be told, I was more of a Gale Sayers guy, largely because of the “wow” factor that made Sayers’s career so incredible despite its injury-induced brevity.

Payton vs. Sayers is an apples-and-oranges comparison, really: a hard worker, dependable and dedicated, punching in and never missing a day over 13 tough years, versus an artist possessing God-given talent that is transcendent but fleeting.

If Walter Payton, magnificent football player and Chicago treasure, is enough for you, ignore the book and cherish your memories. If Walter Payton, flawed but fascinating human being, intrigues you, read it. You might come away with a greater appreciation.
309 2011-10-07 The complaints about readings are typically of two sorts. The first, as Bishop’s comment implies, is that they can involve a deadly combination of boredom and sympathetic embarrassment. The second is put neatly by Philip Larkin: “Hearing a poem, as opposed to reading it on the page, means you miss so much — the shape, the punctuation, the italics, even knowing how far you are from the end.” Then too, Larkin noted, “the speaker may interpose his own personality between you and the poem, for better or worse.”

Doubts persisted even as poets like Allen Ginsberg and Paul Blackburn placed more emphasis on oral aspects of the art in the 1950s and ’60s. But perhaps nothing illustrates the tension that can exist between private reading and public performance so much as the reception of spoken-word poetry in the mid-1980s, in particular spoken word’s competitive aspect, the poetry slam.

Slam was invented (or at least evolved) in Chicago as a populist response to what was seen as the increasing annexation of poetry by the academy. As a poetic genre it involves almost everything that would have put Bishop’s teeth on edge: overt theatricality, deliberate courting of the audience, and of course competition (sometimes of a freewheeling sort, but competition nonetheless). A slam, you might say, is often not so much poetry in performance as poetry as performance.

The emergence of performance poetry was not exactly greeted with applause by some devotees of written poetry. In 2000 Harold Bloom referred to slams as examples of “various young men and young women in various late-spots” who went about “declaiming rant and nonsense at each other.” He pronounced the entire enterprise “the death of art.”

Over the last decade, however, the tension between book-based poets and performance poets has, if not vanished, at least eased considerably. In part this is because the writers have had more time to meet one another, discover similar values and possibly enjoy the bond that comes of knowing that everyone involved makes less money than rappers. Poets like Saul Williams and Patricia Smith, who got their start in performance, have had success in print. (Ms. Smith’s “Blood Dazzler” was a finalist for the National Book Award.) Craig Arnold, whose career began with the Yale Series of Younger Poets prize in 1998, participated on several slam teams, and Billy Collins is almost as well known for his superb performances as for the craftsmanship of his collections.

If you live in New York, the opportunities to hear poetry abound. Places like the legendary Nuyorican Poets Cafe are going strong, and the city’s Grand Establishments — notably Dylan Thomas’s old benefactor, the Poetry Center — bring in the country’s most prominent writers. (And the world’s: Seamus Heaney opened the season there last week.) Meanwhile New York’s tradition of small-scale bar-based readings is ably carried on by series like Mixer on the Lower East Side and Pete’s Candy Store in Williamsburg.

In a single weekend it’s possible to hear poetry received with an appreciative hush (as at the 92nd Street Y); paired with music (Mixer); and greeted with yells and scores (Bar 13). At its best it’s a fluid scene perhaps best exemplified by the Bowery Poetry Club’s Page Meets Stage series. There the poetic impresario Bob Holman pairs “page” poets like Philip Levine with performance poets like Taylor Mali. Daniel Gallant, the director of the Nuyorican, puts it this way: “I’m not that concerned with types or genres. We just want to give different audiences a chance to experience art. And look, I love Shakespeare’s poetry, but seeing it performed is what made me able to appreciate it on the page.”

The poet Maureen McLane, who teaches English at New York University and has published two collections with Farrar Straus & Giroux, largely agrees, and she singles out the HBO series that showcased spoken-word poets. “It’s striking how many students cite ‘Def Poetry Jam’ as their gateway performance poetry drug,” she said.

So where does all this leave Larkin’s objection that the reading of poetry can leave out, well, the poetry? It’s worth remembering that, as the poet Charles Bernstein smartly observed, the poem has “a fundamentally plural existence.” A poem isn’t purely a set arrangement of words on a page, if only because versions may differ. Think of Emily Dickinson’s unique typography being corrected by “helpful” editors.

Performance can create its own versions as well, and these, along with the words we read, give us the cloud of possibility that is the poem itself. In an e-mail, Paul Muldoon, poetry editor of The New Yorker, describes performance as “an act of creativity and criticism combined, as was the writing of the poem in the first place.”

One of the best illustrations of his point is the most famous poetry reading in living memory, Frost’s recitation of “The Gift Outright” at the inauguration of John F. Kennedy. Frost, then 86, was unable to read the poem he’d written for the occasion because of the glare, so he recited — he performed. But he altered the last line, which describes America “such as she was, such as she would become.” In “an act of criticism and creativity combined,” he changed it, apparently at Kennedy’s request, to “such as she was, such as she will become.” The performance was a huge success. But was it still the poem? Was it still “The Gift Outright”? It was certainly a gift, which should be enough for anyone.
310 2011-10-07 A report on retail sales for September showed the biggest increase in sales since May at stores open at least a year. The companies tracked by Thomson Reuters posted a 5.1 increase in sales, beating analysts’ estimates.

“Last week, when the market was in free fall, the idea was that a recession was inevitable. We’re clearly not out the woods yet, but I think it’s less likely,” said Byron Wien, the vice chairman of Blackstone Advisory Partners.

The Dow Jones industrial average gained 183.38 points, or 1.68 percent, to 11,123.33. The Nasdaq composite index rose 46.31 points, or 1.88 percent, to 2,506.82.

Financial companies, which have been hit hard during the market’s recent downturn, performed strongly. Bank of America’s shares rose 51 cents, or 8.84 percent, to $6.28. Citigroup jumped $1.31, or 5.3 percent, to $26.02. Wells Fargo gained 87 cents, or 3.55 percent, to $25.37.

The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 29/32, to 101 6/32, and its yield rose to 1.99 percent, up from 1.89 percent late Wednesday.

The European Central Bank moved to help European banks that are having trouble raising short-term cash, while the Bank of England decided to resume its bond purchases to help support a slowing British economy. Both central banks left their benchmark rates unchanged, at 1.5 percent for the euro area covered by the European Central Bank and 0.5 percent for Britain.

While most economists did not expect a rate cut, some said they were disappointed with the central bank’s actions, particularly because this was the last policy meeting to be headed by Jean-Claude Trichet, who will be replaced by Mario Draghi, governor of the Bank of Italy, on Nov. 1. Mr. Draghi will face pressure not to cut rates immediately to establish his credentials as an inflation fighter, analysts said.

The Bank of England’s resumption of its bond-buying program was a surprise, said Mark McCormick, a currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman, a boutique banking firm in New York.

“Bank of England exceeded the markets’ expectations, the E.C.B., I would say, disappointed. But they’re both trying to ease financial conditions and in turn support economic growth from a monetary perspective,” he said.

The banks’ actions caused European currencies to fall against the dollar.

Longer term, however, the picture remained as murky as ever, and financial markets continued to face what strategists at HSBC, in their latest quarterly assessment, called “an unbearable degree of uncertainty.”

After falling 22 percent from their April highs, global equities are likely to remain tricky,” wrote Garry Evans, head of global equity strategy at HSBC in Hong Kong. “There are few signs of a bold solution to Europe’s sovereign debt issues and the 23 November deadline for U.S. debt negotiations looms.”
311 2011-10-07 Using agave syrup instead of honey can turn these crunchy bars into a vegan treat....
312 2011-10-07 Jason Polan Op-Art diplays drawings of people commemorating Steve Jobs at Apples stores around Manhattan; drawings (M)...
313 2011-10-07 News that an influential panel of experts is advising healthy men not to be screened for prostate cancer with a widely used test is certain to cause confusion and anxiety among men and their doctors, and reignites a debate about the benefits and r...
314 2011-10-07 Sarkis G. Soghanalian, a larger-than-life arms dealer who provided weapons to Saddam Hussein and many other dictators and rebels, worked closely with American intelligence and later told his story on television, died early Wednesday in Hialeah, Fl...
315 2011-10-07 Derrick Bell, a legal scholar who saw persistent racism in America and sought to expose it through books, articles and provocative career moves -- he gave up a Harvard Law School professorship to protest the school's hiring practices -- died on We...
316 2011-10-07 Television is such a tantalizing target in part because people spend so many hours watching it, but also because the industry over all has been slow to innovate except perhaps in making screens larger. In particular, the consuming public is still waiting for television content — everything that people watch — to be delivered over the Internet in a convenient, affordable package on all the devices people are now using.

One big reason for Apple’s failure to gain traction in television is that Apple TV has not had a compelling source of television and movie content that allows the product to stand out. Although the company’s iTunes store is stocked with many popular shows like “Glee” and “Sons of Anarchy,” network and movie studio executives have hesitated to make all of their content widely available at attractive prices, in large part over concerns about angering cable companies, a big source of their revenue, and their pipeline into living rooms.

In August, Apple discontinued an iTunes rental service that allowed viewers to rent television episodes for 99 cents through the store for watching on devices like Apple TV, saying that consumers were not as interested in renting episodes as in buying them.

Last year, talks between Apple and television executives, including NBCUniversal, and Discovery, stalled over a plan to license their programs for an Internet subscription service akin to and Plus, according to executives briefed on talks.

The cold shoulder to Apple from television executives is a stark contrast to the success Mr. Jobs had in wooing the music companies when the iTunes Store was begun eight years ago. At the time, Mr. Jobs used his personal charisma to persuade record executives to let Apple sell songs for 99 cents each through iTunes. It also helped him that the hadn’t yet turned into a blockbuster product.

The subsequent explosion in sales of 99-cent digital singles on iTunes further eroded compact disc sales, many music executives say. Television executives were determined to avoid the same experience. “It didn’t work in TV and movies precisely because it did in music,” said Mr. McQuivey of Forrester Research.

Mr. Jobs himself often downplayed Apple TV’s impact on the market. While he used lofty words like “magical” to describe the iPad, Mr. Jobs on more than one occasion referred to the $99 Apple TV as a “hobby” for Apple because of its lackluster sales. Analysts estimate the company has sold about two million of the devices. It has sold nearly 29 million iPads since the product was introduced in the spring of 2010.

In an on-stage interview last year at the D: All Things Digital conference, Mr. Jobs further expounded on his pessimism about the market by saying that it was hard to sell innovative television devices like Apple TV to consumers, when cable companies give their customers a set-top box for little or no cost upfront. “That pretty much squashes any opportunity for innovation because nobody’s willing to buy a set-top box,” he said.

In the meantime, one of Apple’s rivals, Microsoft, announced a major new push into the television business on Wednesday, before the announcement of Mr. Jobs’s death. The company said it was entering a partnership with nearly 40 television providers, including Bravo, , and FiOS, that will allow the 35 million members of its Xbox Live online service to watch mainstream cable programming through Microsoft’s game console.

The one big catch is that Xbox users will still need to pay their regular monthly television bills to their cable providers to watch the television programming on their game consoles. But executives contend that the partnership could still make viewers happy because the Xbox is so much friendlier to use than a cable programming guide when searching for things to watch.

Even if Apple TV has not worked yet, Apple is still having an impact on through its mobile devices. After the Winter Olympics in last year NBCUniversal studied how viewers watched the games. Network researchers noticed a fundamentally different way users of iPhones watched; they preferred easily accessible clips and highlights, rather than long, elaborately produced broadcasts. That behavior has since expanded to iPad users and affected the way networks deliver live events.

“Every one of those devices very, very quickly went mainstream,” said Alan Wurtzel, president of research and media development for NBCUniversal.

The exception was Apple TV, which Mr. Wurtzel says was “a year or two ahead of its time.”

“Apple TV will be among the major players in that world, except, I want to be clear, from a business standpoint there could be others to take on that role whether it’s or Netflix,” Mr. Wurtzel said.

Apple TV, while still niche, has fared better than others like TV, said Michael Gartenberg, research director overseeing consumer technology at “We see a lot of experimentation in the TV space and they’ll eventually get it right,” he said.

Part of the problem for Apple is that a television is not just another screen in the home. Viewers have a personal relationship with television. Networks view it as the last place to preserve their right to present shows on a given night and charge advertisers a premium. “It’s not a question of kinks in terms of getting the technology to work but working to get the content,” Mr. Gartenberg said.
317 2011-10-08 Sony Pictures Entertainment has concluded a deal to buy film  rights to the authorized biography "Steve Jobs," from Walter Isaacson, according to a person who was briefed on the deal....
318 2011-10-08 Sony Pictures Entertainment has concluded a deal to buy film rights to the authorized biography "Steve Jobs," from Walter Isaacson, according to a person who was briefed on the deal....
319 2011-10-08 Answering questions submitted online, the state environmental commissioner says his staff will look into the idea of requiring "financial assurance"  from drillers to cover liability and contamination from possible drilling accidents....
320 2011-10-08 Answering questions submitted online, the state environmental commissioner says his staff will look into the idea of requiring "financial assurance" from drillers to cover liability and contamination from possible drilling accidents....
321 2011-10-08 Check back throughout the day for updates and analysis, to ask questions or to give us your observations, whether from your couch or from the bleachers....
322 2011-10-08 Zach Hillesland will be reporting on all of the day's action in college football. Check back throughout the day for updates and analysis, to ask questions or to give us your observations, whether from your couch or from the bleachers....
323 2011-10-08 The debt crisis in Greece continued to threaten to drag down Europe, the Occupy Wall Street protests gained union support, and Steven P. Jobs, the visionary co-founder of Apple, died....
324 2011-10-08 The attacks came as Russia, an ally of Syria that blocked a resolution condemning Damascus’ crackdown at the United Nations this week, called on Mr. Assad to either change his ways or leave office, joining a chorus of countries alienated by Mr. Assad’s violent suppression of the uprising against him.

“If the Syrian leadership is incapable of conducting such reforms, it will have to go,” said President Dmitri A. Medvedev, in remarks reported by Russian news agencies. “But this decision should be taken not in NATO or certain European countries. It should be taken by the Syrian people and the Syrian leadership.”

Washington welcomed the shift in Russia’s position, but a State Department official said that the United States would like to see Russia and other countries exert pressure on Syria by imposing economic sanctions.

“That is very positive,” said Victoria Nuland, a State Department spokeswoman, on Friday. “But as we have said, we want to see more countries join us not only in increasing the political and rhetorical pressure on the regime, but also tightening the economic noose.”

The White House press secretary, Jay Carney, said in a statement that the attacks on Mr. Tammo and Mr. Seif represented “the Syrian regime’s latest attempt to shut down peaceful opposition inside Syria. President Assad must step down now before taking his country further down this very dangerous path.”

A Syrian protester reached by telephone in Damascus said the beating of Mr. Seif reflected the government’s anxiety about the opposition’s influence. “He is one of the few members of the National Council inside Syria and this scares the regime,” said the protester, who gave his name as Ammar.

Activists also said that at least eight people were killed elsewhere across Syria as protesters took to the streets after Friday’s midday prayers.

The United Nations said this week that at least 2,900 people have been killed since the uprising started in March. The United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child said the toll included at least 187 children.

Mr. Assad’s government has contended that the uprising is really a crime wave by gangs backed by hostile foreign powers. In keeping with that argument, the deputy foreign minister, Faisal Mekdad, said on Friday that his country had opened an investigation into the killings of 1,100 members of Syria’s security forces. Mr. Mekdad, speaking from Geneva where he was attending a meeting of the United Nations Human Rights Council, denied reports that the Syrian Army was shooting deserters and accused other nations of arming protesters.
325 2011-10-08 GOOD CALLS The good calls have been the conservative ones.

Bill Stone, the chief investment strategist at PNC Wealth Management, has championed dividend-paying stocks all year and continues to do so. What has changed is his reason for recommending them.

At the beginning of the year, Mr. Stone said he backed these stocks because he believed that money would move from bonds into stocks and that dividend-paying ones would benefit first. As other people turned against stocks over the summer, he said that companies paying a dividend had the cash reserves to continue to pay or increase them — evidence that they were well run.

Now, like other strategists, Mr. Stone sees dividend-paying stocks as unique survivors and one of the few securities that offer income. The average dividend yield on the S.&.P 500, 2.22 percent, is now higher than the 2.08 percent yield on 10-year Treasuries for the first time since the 1950s.

“We’re sticking with the call, but when it won’t work is when we get a strong snapback,” Mr. Stone said. “When the market decides it’s not so concerned about the double-dip recession, it will drive the other stocks higher more quickly.”

The other stock picker who has stuck to his recommendations with good results is Niall J. Gannon, director of wealth management at the Gannon Group at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney. His big call at the beginning of the year was on stocks of companies that derived a substantial proportion of their revenue from outside the United States. One of his favorites is Nike, which is up 3.78 percent this year.

He said these were the only companies that were insulated from country-specific economic shocks. People may be buying fewer bottles of Coca-Cola in Greece, but they may be buying more in Brazil.

Of course, being right is not always something to gloat about. Richard Madigan, chief investment officer for J. P. Morgan’s Global Access Portfolios, has been right about something he wishes he had gotten wrong: unemployment in the United States. He predicted it would stay between 9 and 10 percent all year. While he was briefly wrong when the unemployment rate dipped to 8.9 percent in March, he is right again, and he does not like the implications of being correct.

“For markets, it’s going to be a much more aggressive campaign cycle into next year,” he said. “The political rhetoric will distract markets. It’ll be noise with a lot of policy uncertainty.”

With this bleak outlook, he is encouraging clients to stop thinking in calendar years. Trying to make up for the losses of the last two months could land people in worse straits.

CHANGED CALLS If there was one area that did not turn out as this group imagined, it was debt.

Richard Cookson, chief investment officer at Citi Private Bank, was the most brutally honest member of the group. A week before our call, he issued a report to the firm’s clients conceding that he had gotten one of his calls on long-duration bonds wrong. He titled it “Gross Miscalculation.”

Now, instead of those government bonds, he is recommending investors shift to long-dated corporate bonds.

“Corporate balance sheets are very strong right now,” Mr. Cookson said. “The reason long-dated investment grade has done so well is because of a fall in government bond yields. They’ve risen to the sort of level where they’re more attractive than long-dated government bonds.”

He said he still believed that inflation was not a threat, which meant that yields on government bonds would stay low for the foreseeable future.

Mr. Madigan and Marc D. Stern, chief investment officer at Bessemer Trust, both predicted in January that yields on Treasury bonds would rise this year, as people invested in other assets. But the opposite has happened.

“We’ve gotten the bond market wrong,” Mr. Stern said. “The five-year Treasury was at 2 percent at the beginning of the year. We thought it would go to 4 percent and you’d lock in your losses. It went to 1 percent, and it could go to 0.5 percent.”

Yet he warned that when the economy improves, bond yields will rise quickly. “You’re playing with fire,” he said.

This is another call where it would have been better if Mr. Stern had been right. The persistently low yields on Treasuries are not a reflection of investors’ love of American assets but of their fear of everything else.

Municipal bonds have been a bright spot if only because there have not been the big defaults that the market analyst Meredith Whitney predicted at the beginning of the year. Mr. Gannon was particularly pleased by this. He recommended a 40 percent allocation to municipal bonds in the portfolios of his wealthiest clients. That allocation has returned 9 percent so far this year. While he attributes this to a bond bubble, he said he was happy that his clients could benefit from it.

FINAL QUARTER The most troubling development may be that markets will remain volatile. While the group was hesitant to say how the year would end, they shared a common frustration — that policy makers in the United States and Europe were hurting their economies.

Politicians in the United States, they all said, are stuck in ideological positions over spending, debt and taxes and not focused on finding a way to stimulate the economy and create jobs. “The very difficult debate surrounding the debt ceiling was destructive of confidence,” Mr. Stern said. “When you already have weak confidence, that’s bound to worsen it. And it did.”

Their European counterparts are just as bad, delaying a decision on what to do with Greece — and by extension, other shaky countries in the European Union. “Greece will default in the next few weeks,” Mr. Cookson said. “It’s going to mean something of a banking crisis. How do you ring-fence Greece and not Ireland and Portugal?”

Mr. Madigan said this summer that European politicians would continue to “kick the can down the road.” That is what they have done. The result has been what he termed “staggering volatility.”

“If you were to look at long-term U.S. Treasury price volatility, it’s running along with equity volatility along with gold and Swiss franc volatility,” he said. “It’s difficult to focus on fundamentals when volatility and correlation are dictating the range.”

Or as Mr. Gannon put it: “You have to recognize that volatility is here to stay. Prices are being set by minute-by-minute trading, so we cannot look to daily market moves to validate our opinions or thesis as an investor.”

The only certainty, then, is that the fourth quarter will be interesting.
326 2011-10-08 Like many here on a recent morning, Ms. Kerakova said there always seemed to be enough money to help and foreign states but never people like her. On the other hand, she said: “The European Union has been good to us. We live more freely, move more freely.” Asked whether to side with Europe or refuse to help with the bailout fund, she said quietly, “Neviem,” Slovak for “I don’t know.”

The future of the euro could well be decided next week in the Slovak Parliament, which meets in a modern building that is too small to hold offices for all its members and their staff because it was originally designed to hold only occasional sessions of Czechoslovakia’s Federal Assembly, which usually met in . The Parliament building overlooks not only the Danube but also the former frontier of the Iron Curtain, which cut off Bratislava from Vienna, less than an hour’s drive upriver and the cold war gateway to the free world.

The expansion of the bailout fund is in danger because the free-market Freedom and Solidarity Party, just one member of the four-party governing coalition, has held out against it. “I am not the savior of the world,” Richard Sulik, who is both the party’s leader and the speaker of Parliament, said in a recent interview here. “I was elected to defend the interests of Slovak voters.”

The opposition Smer-Social Democracy party could bridge the gap, but its leader, the leftist former Premier Robert Fico, hopes to bring down the government and win new elections, paving the way for his return to power, and is holding out for the coalition to crack.

The situation in Slovakia illustrates how ambitious young politicians, outspoken populists and struggling small parties can hinder collective action — or even derail it. Even if a compromise is found here, as it was in Finland, by the time agreement is reached among all 17 countries, investors will have long since moved on to a new batch of fears.

The vote over the expansion of the bailout fund, the , and its powers, is only one step. “The E.F.S.F. is not the end of the story. We will need to have other solutions,” said Slovakia’s finance minister, Ivan Miklos. “This is the dilemma. Everyone agrees that we need more flexibility.”

Slovakia’s relationship with the European Union runs far deeper than a single or bailout. In the 18 years since independence, few countries have experienced such unusual twists of fate and fortune. From the “black hole in the heart of Europe,” as described the backward, isolated state in 1997, the country transformed itself into a neoliberal champion of the flat .

With automobile factories springing up across the country, it earned the nickname the of Europe. It is also called the Tatra Tiger, a name derived from a local mountain range, because of its rapid growth, including the 10.5 percent economic growth rate it reported in 2007, just a decade after Ms. Albright’s dire pronouncement.

But perhaps Slovakia’s greatest sense of accomplishment came from beating its former partners, the Czechs; its former rulers, the Hungarians; and its larger neighbor, , into joining the euro currency zone. Many Slovaks are reluctant to be the stumbling block for the euro’s rescue after all the European Union has done for them.

“Thanks to joining the European Union and the prospect of joining the euro zone, investors were more likely to show interest here,” said Mayor Vladimir Butko of Trnava, a city about 35 miles east of the capital where a car factory produces Citroens and Peugeots.

The European Union helped to pay for improvements to the rail link to Bratislava, Mr. Butko said, and for a highway bypass. But he ranked the psychological benefits of European Union membership even higher than the economic ones. “When you can now sit in your car and go to , and the same money in your pocket here can pay for a beer there, and you don’t have to stop at the borders,” said Mr. Butko, 56, “this is a very strong experience for people over 45.”

It is an experience that makes far less of an impression on the younger generation. Sebastian Petic, 18, a law student in Trnava who was spending a sunny afternoon on a bench in the town square with his Lenovo laptop, repeated a popular joke. “For 500 euro, you can adopt a Greek. He will sleep late, drink , have lunch and take a siesta,” Mr. Petic said, “so that you can work.”

He opposed increasing the bailout fund, saying that debt would only snowball. “I was quite positive about the advent of the euro,” Mr. Petic said. “Now, I’m not so sure.”
327 2011-10-08 “However, the commission considers that there are no competition concerns in this growing market where numerous players, including Google, are present,” the commission said in its statement.

In the sale of Internet communications to businesses, Skype had only “a limited presence,” the commission concluded, which did not overlap with Microsoft’s Lync Internet communications software, used by large companies.

Microsoft, in a statement, called the European approval “an important milestone. We look forward to completing the final steps needed to close the acquisition.”

The approval from Brussels will expedite the fusion of Microsoft, maker of the ubiquitous Windows computer operating system and Office business application suite, with Skype, an Internet seller of free and low-cost audio and video telephony founded in 2003 by Niklas Zennstrom, a Swede, and Janus Friis of Denmark.

During the past eight years, Skype has become the largest provider of Internet-based communications. But profitability has remained elusive.

A previous owner, eBay, which bought Skype for an estimated $2.6 billion in October 2005, was not able to integrate Skype profitably into its online auction business. In October 2007, eBay took a $1.4 billion impairment charge reflecting what it estimated that it had overpaid for Skype.

Last November, eBay sold a 70 percent stake in Skype to an investor group led by Silver Lake Partners for an estimated $2 billion.

Microsoft, which announced its agreement to buy Skype on May 10, is paying nearly three times Skype’s market value, as measured by the sale of eBay’s stake almost a year ago to private investors.

Leif-Olof Wallin, an analyst in Stockholm for Gartner, said Microsoft would use Skype to bolster its push into Internet-based telephony around its Lync software for businesses. With Skype’s huge user base, Microsoft will be able to greatly expand the availability of low-cost Internet telephony, Mr. Wallin said.

He added that Microsoft’s distribution of Skype through its Windows operating system would improve the image of Internet calling, especially among businesses, which are increasingly encouraging workers to use their own computers and software for company business.

That will make Microsoft more of a direct competitive threat to Cisco Systems and Avaya, the two biggest companies that sell Internet-based telephone service software for businesses.

But it will also accelerate downward pressure on long-distance and international calling prices, Mr. Wallin said.

“Once it is preloaded on a device, whether it is a computer or a phone, it becomes more convenient to use,” Mr. Wallin said. “That will make consumers more likely to discover and try it.”

Whether Microsoft can generate a profit from Skype, or create profitable synergies with its other software services and products remains unclear, said David W. Cearley, an analyst for Gartner in Stamford, Connecticut.

“I do not believe that direct revenue was the main reason for the purchase,” Mr. Cearley said. “The main thing that Microsoft is buying with Skype is brand presence on the Web and a customer base.”
328 2011-10-08 Two Tibetan teenagers in China’s remote southwest set themselves on fire Friday to protest the Chinese government’s Tibet policies, and at least one of them died, an advocacy group said.

The advocacy group, Free Tibet, said in a statement that rumors were circulating in the region, known as Aba or Ngagba in Tibetan, that “many more people were prepared to give up their lives in protest.”

The latest self-immolations reported by the group brought to seven the number of such attempts by Tibetans in China’s Sichuan Province since March. All but one of the earlier acts of self-immolation were by monks from the Kirti Monastery, a restive religious institution that was at the heart of anti-China protests in 2008.

Free Tibet said the two teenagers, identified as Choepel, 19, and Khayang, 18, set themselves on fire at midday. The group said Choepel died at the scene and that Khayang’s condition was unknown.

The group said the two, who both were wearing layman’s clothing at the time, were believed to have been former monks at the Kirti Monastery. It said Choepel was expelled in March, after the first self-immolation there, for reasons unclear. The group said it was also unclear why Khayang had left Kirti, but that his uncle was one of at least 20 people killed in the 2008 riots and crackdown by Chinese forces.

Free Tibet did not specify the precise sources of its information, and there was no word about the self-immolations in the state-run Chinese media.
329 2011-10-08 Paola Antonelli, senior curator of and design at the in New York, recalled buying a 1990 Macintosh Classic and taking it back to . “When I got home, I took it out of that brown, padded carrying case with the rainbow-colored Apple logo on it and put it on my desk in . It was like a little pug dog looking at me. It wasn’t just something I worked with; it kept me company. It had such personality and such life.”

My own conversion came much later. When I came across the MacBook Air, I thought it the single most elegant technology product I’d ever encountered, and not just because it looked good. Its light weight and paper-thin design made it easy to carry while offering all the functions and keyboard of a full-size PC. Even the packaging was so beautiful that I couldn’t bring myself to discard it. Now I refer to it as my third arm and can’t imagine life without it.

Mr. Jobs “had an exceptional eye for design, and not just an eye, but an intelligence for design,” Ms. Antonelli said. “We don’t talk just about the looks, but how objects communicate: The specific shape, how it feels in the hand, under the fingers, how you read it in the eye and the mind. This is what Steve cared passionately about.”

has 25 Apple products in its permanent design collection. And like many great artists, Mr. Jobs’s near-dictatorial control of Apple made possible the pursuit of perfection. “If you’re a visionary, and a dictator, you can take risks and be consistent,” Ms. Antonelli said. “NeXT was a risk and a beautiful failure. It brought him back to Apple. The dynamics of Apple and Steve’s personality and the course of history made for this perfect alignment of the stars.”

Also like many artists ( comes to mind), Mr. Jobs was legendarily difficult at times. “He has always been focused, driven, demanding and, as a result, very difficult and abrasive,” Mr. Norman said. “This abrasiveness in the early days was too extreme and was destructive of the company. John Sculley had to fire him. When Steve came back, he had matured. He still had a demanding vision of perfection, but he brought focus. He was slightly less abrasive. He was brilliant at understanding what a product should be and he was a dictator.”

”It takes a unique person to do this,” Mr. Norman continued. “He micromanaged, which goes against all conventional wisdom about management. He went to product reviews every week. He’d say, ‘Move that two pixels over.’ A C.E.O. telling you to move something a pixel? Then he’d come back a month later, and say, ‘I told you to move that. Why didn’t you?’ That’s a unique characteristic. He cared about details and he remembered.”

Mr. Jobs made no secret of his focus on design; in a Jan. 24, 2000, interview, Fortune magazine asked if it was an “obsession” and whether it was “an inborn instinct or what?”

“We don’t have good language to talk about this kind of thing,” Mr. Jobs replied. “In most people’s vocabularies, design means veneer. It’s interior decorating. It’s the fabric of the curtains and the sofa. But to me, nothing could be further from the meaning of design. Design is the fundamental soul of a man-made creation that ends up expressing itself in successive outer layers of the product or service. The iMac is not just the color or translucence or the shape of the shell. The essence of the iMac is to be the finest possible consumer computer in which each element plays together. ... That is the furthest thing from veneer. It was at the core of the product the day we started. This is what customers pay us for — to sweat all these details so it’s easy and pleasant for them to use our computers. We’re supposed to be really good at this. That doesn’t mean we don’t listen to customers, but it’s hard for them to tell you what they want when they’ve never seen anything remotely like it.”

For all his accolades, this aspect of Mr. Jobs was hard for many business people to understand, or to copy. Go into a computer store today, and there’s a bland array of mostly indistinguishable keyboards and monitors — and then there’s Apple. Ditto the cellphone stores.

“Most people underestimate his grandeur and his greatness,” Gadi Amit, founder and principal designer of New Deal Design in , told me. “They think it’s about design. It’s beyond design. It’s completely holistic, and it’s dogmatic. Things need to be high quality; they have to have poetry and culture in each step. Steve was cut from completely different cloth from most business leaders. He was not a number-crunching guy; he was not a technologist. He was a cultural leader, and he drove Apple from that perspective. He started with culture; then followed with technology and design. No one seems to get that.”

It’s hard to find parallels. Braun and Olivetti in had beautiful designs but never had Apple’s success. Mr. Amit mentioned Italy’s Enzo Ferrari, the racecar driver and founder of the Ferrari sports car manufacturer. “Apple has the status that Ferrari has in Italy,” Ms. Antonelli said. “It’s a source of national pride and of pride for every employee. You get to that stature only if you created something so fundamental that everyone loves.”

Mr. Amit says he believes Mr. Jobs’s legacy will be “the blending of technology and poetry. It’s not about design per se; it’s the poetic aspect of the entire enterprise. Compared to Bill Gates or , he’s in a different class. I think this is a revolutionary shift. Jobs is a revolutionary character. He shifted the industry and changed our lives through this amalgamation of culture and technology. If you’re looking for C.E.O.’s of this caliber, you have to look outside the engineering and business schools. That is truly revolutionary.”

Apple now faces competition on nearly every front, and whether it can maintain its competitive edge without Mr. Jobs is a pressing question, especially for Apple shareholders and customers. But everyone I spoke to agreed that Mr. Jobs himself was irreplaceable.

“He was really unique, brilliant, demanding and difficult,” Mr. Norman said. “Like him or not, it doesn’t matter; he redefined the industry, the cellphone industry, computers and animation. You cannot deny the impact he had on the company, the industry and our culture.”
330 2011-10-08 BEIJING — Three prominent human rights groups called on China on Friday to release the imprisoned dissident writer Liu Xiaobo, who won the Nobel Peace Prize a year ago, and to end the house arrest of his wife, Liu Xia.

Mr. Liu has rarely been allowed to talk to family members since the Nobel committee made its announcement on Oct. 8, 2010, and he has been allowed to leave the prison where he is being held in Liaoning Province only once, according to the groups, Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International and China Human Rights Defenders. Ms. Liu has been kept under detention in the couple’s home in Beijing but has not been charged with any crime.

“The only thing that would force the government to reassess the decision is if there was some strong international pressure on China in this case, but the pressure is not there,” Nicholas Bequelin, a researcher for Human Rights Watch, said in a telephone interview. “There’s no incentive for the government to revisit this decision. We’re talking about a climate where standing defiantly against the West is reaping more political awards than collaborating.”

Mr. Liu, a longtime human rights advocate and writer, was detained on Dec. 8, 2008, for playing a leading role in drafting Charter 08, which demands gradual political and legal reforms based on constitutional principles. The document was circulated via e-mail and was signed by thousands of Chinese, though Mr. Liu remained largely unknown within the country, in part because of government censorship. On Dec. 29, 2009, a court in Beijing sentenced Mr. Liu to 11 years in prison for inciting subversion of the state.

Security agents outside the Lius’ Beijing apartment building prevented reporters from seeing Ms. Liu when the Nobel committee announced its decision. She was also barred from going to Oslo to collect the prize in December, and it was placed on an empty chair instead. It was the first time since 1936, when the Nazi government in Germany prevented the writer Carl von Ossietzky from collecting the prize, that no winner or representative had shown up for the ceremony. The Nobel committee announced on Friday that it was giving this year’s Peace Prize to two women from Liberia and one from Yemen for their promotion of democracy and gender equality.
331 2011-10-08 7:25 p.m. | Updated      LONDON - French and Belgian bank stocks have crashed and the bond yields of Greece, Italy and Portugal may be peaking. Now hedge funds and bond vigilantes have begun to zero in on Hungary as the fashionable European countr...
332 2011-10-08 Carl Richards is a certified financial planner in Park City, Utah. His sketches are archived here on the Bucks blog and on his personal Web site, BehaviorGap.com.     I'm not a marriage counselor, but sometimes I feel like one....
333 2011-10-09 Aniella Gonzalez and Joseph Donald McCart VI were married Saturday evening. The Rev. Sammy Chong, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony in Houghton Memorial Chapel at Wellesley College in Massachusetts.

The bride, 40, is the senior associate at Krinzman Huss & Lubetsky, a law firm in Miami, where she specializes in real estate litigation. She graduated cum laude from Wellesley. She received a master’s in international affairs from Columbia and a law degree from the University of Miami. She is the daughter of Nilda Gonzalez and Diosdado Gonzalez of Miami.

The bridegroom, 50, works in the food and beverage department of Loews Miami Beach Hotel. He graduated from the University of Missouri, Rolla, from which he also received a master’s in geology and geophysics. He is a son of the late Magdalena McCart and the late Mr. McCart V, who lived in Rochester.
334 2011-10-09 Laissez-faire won't work....
335 2011-10-09 Laissez-faire won't work....
336 2011-10-09 Sir Paul McCartney married Nancy Shevell in a small civil ceremony on Sunday at Marylebone Town Hall in London....
337 2011-10-09 Sir Paul McCartney married Nancy Shevell in a small civil ceremony on Sunday at Marylebone Town Hall in London....
338 2011-10-09 Sotheby's will auction a suite of four bronze sculptures of a woman's back that Matisse created over a period of 23 years beginning in 1908....
339 2011-10-09 Sotheby's will auction a suite of four bronze sculptures of a woman's back that Matisse created over a period of 23 years beginning in 1908....
340 2011-10-09 France reached the Rugby World Cup semifinals for the third straight time, defeating England, 19-12, after racing to a 16-0 halftime lead in Auckland, New Zealand. Wales made the semifinals for the first time in 24 years with a 22-10 win over Ireland.
341 2011-10-09 Fund performance during the third quarter indicated that, so far, it has not. The average stock fund in Morningstar’s categories for Latin America fell 25.1 percent, and for Asia (excluding Japan) it dropped 20.7 percent. The average American stock fund was down 16.2 percent, and the average fund focusing on Europe fell 23.7 percent.

The weakness in stocks in the developing world suggests that “the market isn’t yet buying that story” of decoupling, said Arjun Jayaraman, manager of the Causeway Emerging Markets fund. The reason, in his view, is that emerging economies, while less susceptible to recessions than mature ones, still depend on exports for much of their growth and so are not immune to global slowdowns.

But that is less true than it used to be, he and other managers say. As economies develop and populations become richer — World Bank figures show, for instance, that annual output per person in China has risen to more than $7,500 from just under $300 in the late 1970s — industries that cater to consumers, such as retailing, banking, real estate and tourism, become larger and potentially more profitable.

Capitalizing on that trend can be tricky, Mr. Jayaraman said. Investors often buy emerging markets in a single transaction, through a fund that closely follows a broad index. But most indexes offer minimal exposure to the stocks that best exemplify the decoupling theme.

“Look at the large, multinational companies that are the biggest parts of indexes — technology companies like Samsung that are dependent on exports to the developed world, mining companies, energy companies,” he said. “Companies focusing on domestic consumers are still relatively small.” Investors, he said, should seek out funds “that focus on consumer plays or domestic plays in general rather than funds that track indexes.”

The consumer plays that Mr. Jayaraman likes include Charoen Pokphand Foods, a Thai supplier of poultry and seafood; Astra International, an Indonesian car and motorcycle manufacturer; Vimpelcom, the Russian phone company; and Banco do Brasil, which he expects to benefit from expanding homeownership and mortgage borrowing in Brazil.

Mr. Urbina prefers retailers. Three favorites are Wal-Mart de México, Shoprite Holdings in South Africa, and Sun Art Retail, a Hong Kong-listed company that operates hypermarkets in China.

Jonathan Brodsky, a portfolio manager at Advisory Research, cautions that there may be a price to pay for investing in some smaller companies in emerging markets, even if they otherwise are fine decoupling stories. Their stocks may be thinly traded, a byproduct of their size, and information about their operations and financial conditions may be limited.

One way around that is to invest in decoupling stocks listed on American markets. One that Mr. Brodsky mentioned is Banco Latinoamericano de Comercio, a Panamanian company that he said embodies “everything we think is good about emerging markets and has the pricing we think investors should be focusing on.”

The company conducts trade finance, so it is certainly no direct bet on domestic consumption, he concedes. But he expects its focus on lending to businesses involved in importing and exporting between Asia and South America to leave it substantially immune to sluggishness in mature economies.

Investing in stocks like these may be sensible — if investors behave sensibly. One reason that decoupling worked better for economies than markets in 2008 is that investors rejected anything that they perceived as risky, helping markets move in lock step. Mr. Urbina observes more of the same today.

“Correlations among markets these days have gone up, not down,” he said. “I don’t know that it’s any better now than it was. Somehow we need to change the psychology of the capital markets.”

Risk aversion created an urge to bring money back from abroad in 2008, and there could be a repeat performance in the next downturn that could limit stock market decoupling, said Jerome Booth, research director of the Ashmore Group, a fund manager specializing in emerging debt markets.

But a desire to keep assets close to home in hard times can cut both ways, Mr. Booth said. He highlighted International Monetary Fund data indicating that 94 percent of the several trillion dollars of reserves held by governments in the developing world were invested in the developed world — in Treasury bonds, for example, or similar foreign instruments — at the end of the first quarter this year.

Owners of those reserves and the other newfound wealth in emerging economies can read financial headlines as well as anyone else, he noted, and they are just as wary of assuming excessive risk. That could support emerging-market assets, especially bonds, he said. He foresees governments with large reserves paring their exposure to the West and investing in one another.

“Emerging-market investors are getting more and more worried that they’re sitting there herdlike, not doing anything,” Mr. Booth said. Those who dismiss decoupling because they anticipate an exodus from emerging markets should be asking “how much money is going to go the other way,” he said. “What we’re going to see at one point is that people will start selling the developed world and start buying the emerging world.”
342 2011-10-09 Ms. Ettelbrick continued, “Justice for gay men and lesbians will be achieved only when we are accepted and supported in this society despite our differences from the dominant culture and the choices we make regarding our relationships.”

“I do not want to be known as ‘Mrs. Attached-to-Somebody-Else,’ ” she wrote. “Nor do I want to give the state the power to regulate my primary relationship.”

Paula Louise Ettelbrick was born on Oct. 2, 1955, on an Army base in Stuttgart, Germany, to Robert and Judi Ettelbrick. She graduated from Northern Illinois University in DeKalb in 1978 and received her law degree in 1984 from Wayne State University in Detroit, where she clerked in the law office of the United Auto Workers.

After two years at a large Detroit law firm, Ms. Ettelbrick came to New York to join the Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund. She was its legal director from 1988 to 1993.

At Lambda, she experienced a sharp loss in 1991 when New York’s highest court, the Court of Appeals, decided 6 to 1 that a lesbian, known in the case as Alison D., had no legal right to visit the child she had been raising with her former partner, Virginia M., the biological parent.

But there were important victories, too. During her five years as legislative counsel to the Empire State Pride Agenda in New York, from 1994 to 1999, Ms. Ettelbrick was among those urging Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani to grant domestic partners rights and benefits equal to those of spouses.

When the domestic partner bill was introduced in 1998, she told The New York Times: “If you’re married, you can go to City Hall and file a tax appeal as a couple. Now, we can, too. It’s very meaningful for those of us who live in families not joined by marriage.”

After a brief turn at the Policy Institute of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, Ms. Ettelbrick served as executive director of the International Gay and Lesbian Human Rights Commission from 2003 to 2009. Most recently, she was executive director of the Stonewall Community Foundation in New York. She also taught law at New York University Law School and at Barnard College.

Her partner was Marianne Haggerty, of Manhattan and Yonkers. Her children — Adam Ettelbrick, 14, and Julia Ettelbrick, 12 — now live with Ms. Goldberg and her partner, Mary Lou Kelley. The four women, and the children, would spend time together in the city and vacation together in Provincetown, Mass.

All survive her, as do her brother, Robert Ettelbrick Jr., of Morgan Hill, Calif., and her sister, Linda Anderes, of Tucson.

Never opposed to same-sex marriage, just wary of its restrictive potential, Ms. Ettelbrick was pleased when the New York State Legislature voted in June to legalize such marriages. But Ms. Goldberg said Ms. Ettelbrick remained concerned that “those celebrations not preclude recognition of families that fall outside marriage’s scope.”
343 2011-10-09 “The default rate is likely to remain low,” he said, and is quite unlikely to rise much above 5 percent even if the economy skids back into recession. Default rates peaked at more than 10 percent after the 2008 meltdown, in the early 2000s and in the early 1990s.

Investors who cringe at the idea of buying low-quality debt — the BBB rating is generally considered the border with investment-grade bonds — should recognize that it can act as a kind of stabilizing portfolio ballast, some specialists maintain.

“A certain mix of higher-quality and high-yield bonds lowers volatility while boosting and smoothing returns,” Mr. Morgan said.

Major companies, not just start-ups or fringe telecoms, are now among the biggest issuers of high-yield — the likes of Ford Motor Credit, the CIT Group, the Hospital Corporation of America, Ally Bank and Sprint Nextel.

Still, the market for high-yield bonds is highly volatile and subject to periodic bouts of illiquidity like the one that occurred in August. That is when the fund category, which had been posting double-digit returns during the preceding 12 months, suffered its biggest monthly loss — 4.37 percent — since 2008, according to Morningstar. (The high-yield market had a lesser skid in the second half of September.)

PRICES slumped after Standard & Poor’s, citing the political stalemate after a rancorous Congressional debt-ceiling debate, cut the United States’ credit rating. High-yield investors are very attuned to talk of defaults, but the market also suffered from the European financial turmoil and even the effects of the Japanese tsunami.

“The market had a mass anxiety attack, as all risk assets did,” said Mark Vaselkiv, manager of the T. Rowe Price High Yield fund.

The performance of high-yield bonds, unlike that of investment-grade issues, is very sensitive to the stock market and the economy. Good times indicate that borrowers have a greater ability to service debt, which is far more important to high-yield buyers than the rising interest rates that typically accompany faster growth and that depress the prices of better-quality bonds.

The risk of rising rates, in fact, is limited for high-yield bonds because they almost always come due in 5 to 10 years, compared with 30 years or more for most other corporate bonds. Moreover, their high interest rates provide a cushion against falling prices in a rate upswing. “High-yield will outperform when interest rates go up,” Mr. Morgan said.

Many specialists say the only sensible way for ordinary investors to buy high-yield debt is through mutual funds — both to obtain essential diversification and to avoid being victimized by wide gaps between buying and selling prices in a market that may have relatively little activity.

Retail investors in individual bonds are taking big risks, partly because of the likelihood of unfavorable execution of orders, Mr. Vaselkiv said.

Jeff Tjornehoj, a senior research analyst at Lipper, said that one excellent fund was Fidelity Capital and Income, because of consistent long-term performance, tax efficiency and annual expenses of a reasonable 0.76 percent. It returned 7 percent, annualized, in the five years through Sept. 30 but lost 10.8 percent in the quarter, according to Morningstar. Some 43 percent of its portfolio is in bonds rated B, and 12 percent are rated CCC or below; 17 percent of the fund is invested in stocks.

He said the Vanguard High-Yield Corporate fund has been a high-quality “middle of the road” performer with a portfolio averaging a B rating. It returned 3.7 percent in the quarter , while charging just 0.25 percent in expenses, according to Morningstar.

But there is substantial variation among the more than 500 high-yield funds, with some embracing bonds rated CCC or even lower, as well as common and preferred stocks, convertibles or even derivatives.

The unwary may find the junk market downright treacherous, Mr. Tjornehoj cautioned. “The investor must accept greater volatility and a real risk of loss,” he said, pointing to the Oppenheimer Champion Income fund, which lost about four-fifths of its value in 2008 because of heavy losses on credit default swaps and mortgage-backed securities.

Potential buyers should at least check a fund’s portfolio to make sure it isn’t committed to more low-quality risk than they want and isn’t overly concentrated in certain industries. Good credit analysis by fund managers should uncover issues that are candidates for a ratings upgrade.

Zane E. Brown, a fixed-income strategist at Lord Abbett, noted that gambling, leisure and automotive companies are frequent high-yield borrowers, which could lead to unbalanced fund portfolios if such companies are overrepresented. He now frowns on the bonds of home builders and companies in the paper, publishing and printing industries because, he says, their prospects are generally poor.

While defaults are the biggest hazard in the junk market, analysts also try to predict how much can be salvaged when they occur. The average recovery has run at 44 percent, Mr. Morgan said.

ALTHOUGH many high-yield managers include a wide variety of securities in their portfolios, Mr. Brown sticks closely to corporate bonds. He avoids foreign government bonds because they are harder to analyze and are subject to sudden political change.

Investors should beware of funds offering the very highest current returns, experts also said. Not only might their holdings be of very low quality, but the managers may be paying premium prices, thereby returning some principal in the guise of interest, Mr. Eagan said.

With these cautions, high-yield may be appealing these days — though not the screaming bargain it proved to be when market liquidity evaporated in 2008. But Mr. Vaselkiv issued a caveat: This market may be good “as long as we don’t go into a double-dip recession,” he said. “It’s really a bet on the U.S. economy.”
344 2011-10-09 Perhaps regulators’ biggest worry is over the unknown dynamics of the computerized stock market world that the firms are part of — and the risk that at any moment it could spin out of control. Some regulators fear that the sudden market dive on May 6, 2010, when prices dropped by 700 points in minutes and recovered just as abruptly, was a warning of the potential problems to come. Just last week, the broader market fell throughout Tuesday’s session before shooting up 4 percent in the last hour, raising questions on what was really behind it.

“The flash crash was a wake-up call for the market,” said Andrew Haldane, executive director of the Bank of England responsible for financial stability. “There are many questions begging.”

The industry and others say that the vast majority of trading is legitimate and that its presence means many extra buyers and sellers in the markets, drastically reducing trading costs for ordinary investors.

James Overdahl, an adviser to the firms’ trade group, said that they favor policing the market to stamp out manipulation and that they support efforts to improve market stability. The traders, he said, “are as much interested in improving the quality of markets as anyone else.”

Some academic studies show that high-frequency trading tends to reduce price volatility on normal trading days.

And while a recent analysis by The New York Times of price changes in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index over the past five decades showed that big price swings are more common than they used to be, analysts ascribe this to a variety of causes — including high-speed electronic trading but also high anxiety about the European crisis and the United States economy.

“We are just beginning to catch up to the reality of, ‘Hey, we are in an electronic market, what does that mean?’ ” said Adam Sussman, director of research at the Tabb Group, a markets specialist.

High-frequency trading took off in the middle of the last decade when regulatory reforms encouraged exchanges to switch from floor-based trading to electronic. As computers took over, daily turnover of stocks rose to 8 billion shares in the United States from about 6 billion in 2007, according to BATS Global Markets.

The trading, done by independent firms or on special desks inside big Wall Street banks, now accounts for two of every three stock market trades in America.

Such trading has expanded into other markets, including futures markets in the United States. It has also spread to stock markets around the world where for-profit exchanges are taking steps to attract their business.

When British regulators noticed strange price movements in a range of shares on the London Stock Exchange, they tracked them to a Canadian firm issuing thousands of computerized orders allegedly designed to mislead other investors.

In August, regulators fined the firm, Swift Trade, £8 million, or $13.1 million, for a technique called layering, which involves issuing and then canceling orders they never meant to carry out. The action was challenged by Swift Trade, which was dissolved last year.

Susanne Bergsträsser, a German regulator leading a review of high-speed trading for the International Organization of Securities Commissions, said authorities have to be alert for “market abuse that may arise as a result of technological development.”

The organization will present its recommendations to G-20 finance ministers this month.

In the United States, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority last year fined Trillium Brokerage Services, a New York firm, and some of its employees $2.3 million for layering.

Even the traders’ authorized activities are coming under fire, especially their tendency to shoot off thousands of orders a second and suddenly cancel many. Long-term investors like pension funds complain that the practice makes their trading harder.

Global regulators are considering penalizing traders if they issue but then cancel a high degree of orders, or even making them keep open their orders for a minimum time before they can cancel. Long-term investors worry that some traders may be using their superior technology to detect when others are buying and selling and rush in ahead of them to take advantage of price moves. This is driving some investors who buy and sell in large blocks to move to new so-called dark pools — venues away from public exchanges. As more trading takes place in these venues, prices on exchanges have less meaning, critics say.

In the United States, the Securities and Exchange Commission has been looking into the new market structure for almost two years. In July, it approved a “large trader” rule, requiring firms that do a lot of business, including high-speed traders, to offer more information about their activities in case regulators need to trace their trades.

After the flash crash, exchanges introduced circuit breakers to halt trading after violent moves. Bart Chilton, a commissioner at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, called for regulators to go further. He wants compulsory registration of high-frequency firms and pre-trade testing of their algorithms.

One of the most controversial actions has been the European Commission’s recent proposal for a financial transaction tax on speculators, which would hit high-frequency firms and curtail volumes. The proposed tax would apply to all trades in stocks, bonds and derivatives, and may face stiff opposition from European governments. Many such firms are based in Britain or the Netherlands, and authorities fear a loss of business.

In Canada, a top regulator is proposing higher fees on the biggest players. Last year, the country put in place a monitoring system to track the 200 million to 250 million orders its exchanges receive daily — up from 70 million a year and a half ago.

And the S.E.C. last year proposed what would be an even more high-powered monitoring system called a consolidated audit trail that would gather data on trades in real time from all United States exchanges, and be a powerful tool in helping regulators piece together events in case of another flash crash.

The monitoring “will provide regulators a critical new tool to surveil the securities markets and pursue wrongdoers, in a much more efficient and effective way than we can today,” said David Shillman, associate director of the S.E.C.’s trading and markets unit.
345 2011-10-09 But we are Americans and we seem to think the rest of the world looks best when framed in our rear-view mirror.

We outstrip the world by many measures but lag, sometimes shockingly, in many others. The metrics by which we choose to measure our success determine our priorities. Yet, some of the metrics we rate as most important, like G.D.P., stock indices or trade data, are so deeply flawed as to be irrelevant or worse, dangerous distractions. And at the same time, countries that could hardly hope to outperform the world in any category are far ahead of us when it comes to things that matter more to people. Choosing metrics to measure our society is not a value-free process. As a country we have consistently relied on indicators that keep us focused on the interests of business, financial institutions or the defense industry whereas equity, quality of life and even social mobility metrics are played down.

Calculating national income is a relatively new concept. Previously, countries measured their economic well-being by tallying land holdings or counting railroad boxcars. But in the midst of the Great Depression, Congress, showing a great deal more intellectual curiosity than it does today, commissioned a group of economists led by a future Nobel Prize winner named Simon Kuznets to better measure economic activity.

Although Kuznets and his team fulfilled their mission, they released their results with considerable unease. Not only were they aware that the statistic they devised ignored many types of economic activity — from the work of housewives to illegal enterprises — they also knew their number did not assess the social benefits of what they were tracking.

Kuznets warned of this: “The welfare of a nation can, therefore, scarcely be inferred from a measurement of national income” like the one they created. That hasn’t stopped us from making this misleading number perhaps the most influential statistic in the world.

Americans use G.D.P. in discussions about how well we are doing. It’s at the heart of discussions of whether we are in a recession or not, ahead or falling behind.

Yet, when China “passes” us, it will remain for the most part a very poor country racked with social problems. And as we have seen, though the past decade was marked mostly by United States “growth,” recent Census data shows that since 1999, median American incomes have fallen more than 7 percent while the top 1 percent showed gains. Almost one in four American children live in poverty. We have a high level of unemployment compared to many of our peers.

THE G.D.P. number is not the only culprit, of course. Listening to the news, you might be forgiven if you thought that stock market performance was linked to reality. But markets are oceans of teeming emotions that make the average hormone-infused high school look calmly rational, and much of the “data” that moves markets is just bunk. Trade deficit numbers may be scary but they are also frighteningly flawed, doing a terrible job of accounting for trade in services, trade via the Internet, and inter-company trade, to pick just three among many problem areas.

Worse than the shortcomings of these statistics are the consequences of our over-dependence on them as measures of the success of our society. A country, for example, that overemphasizes G.D.P. growth and market performance is likely to focus policies on the big drivers of those — corporations and financial institutions — even when, as during the recent past, there has been little correlation between the performance of big businesses or elites and that of most people.

Furthermore, of course, the purpose of a society is not merely the creation of wealth, especially if most of it goes to the few. Even John Locke, who famously enumerated our fundamental rights as being to life, liberty and property, qualified this by asserting that people should appropriate only what they could use, leaving “enough and as good” for others. Thomas Jefferson later consciously replaced the right to property with a right to “the pursuit of happiness.” And happiness has become the watchword for those seeking different measures that might better guide governments.

According to the economist Carol Graham, the author of a recent book called “The Pursuit of Happiness: An Economy of Well-Being,” “happiness is, in the end, a much more complicated concept than income. Yet it is also a laudable and much more ambitious policy objective.” While she notes distinctions between approaches to happiness — with some societies more focused on goals like contentment and others on the creation of equal opportunities — she joins a growing chorus of leading thinkers who suggest the time has come to rethink how we measure our performance and how we set our goals.

This diverse group has included thinkers and public figures like President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, who established a commission in 2008 to address the issue that was co-led by the Nobel Prize-winning economist Joseph E. Stiglitz; the Columbia economist Jeffrey D. Sachs; the British prime minister, David Cameron; and the trail-blazing people of Bhutan, who since 1972 have set a goal of raising their gross national happiness.

Dr. Graham admits that it’s a challenge to set criteria for measuring happiness. However, in a conversation, she told me she did not see it as an insurmountable one: “It doesn’t have to be perfect; after all, it took us decades to agree upon what to include in G.D.P. and it is still far from a perfect metric.”

But for Americans, beyond choosing the right goals, there remains the issue of being No. 1. Many of us have lived our lives in a country that has thought itself the world’s most powerful and successful. But with the United States economy in a frustrating stall as China rises, it seems that period is coming to an end. We are suffering a national identity crisis, and politicians are competing with one another to win favor by assuring a return to old familiar ways.

This approach, too, is problematic. We, as a developed nation, are unlikely to grow at the rapid pace of emerging powers (the United States is currently ranked 127th in real G.D.P. growth rate). Europe and Japan, too, are grappling with the realities of being maturing societies.

But maturing societies can offer many benefits to their citizens that are unavailable to most in the rapidly growing world — the products of rich educational and cultural resources, capable institutions, stability and prosperity.

AS a consequence, countries that at different times in history were among the world’s great powers, such as Sweden, the Netherlands, France, Britain and Germany, have gradually shifted their sights, either in the wake of defeat or after protracted periods of grappling with decline, from winning the great power sweepstakes to topping lists of nations offering the best quality of life.

When Newsweek ranked the “world’s best countries” based on measures of health, education and politics, the United States ranked 11th. In the 2011 Quality of Life Index by Nation Ranking, the United States was 31st. Similarly, in recent rankings of the world’s most livable cities, the Economist Intelligence Unit has the top American entry at No. 29, Mercer’s Quality of Living Survey has the first United States entry at No. 31 and Monocle magazine showed only 3 United States cities in the top 25.

On each of these lists, the top performers were heavily concentrated in Northern Europe, Australia and Canada with strong showings in East Asian countries from Japan to Singapore. It is no accident that there is a heavy overlap between the top performing countries and those that also outperform the United States in terms of educational performance — acknowledging, of course, the mistake it would be to overemphasize any one factor in contributing to something as complex as overall quality of life. Nearly all the world’s quality-of-life leaders are also countries that spend more on infrastructure than the United States does. In addition, almost all are more environmentally conscious and offer more comprehensive social safety nets and national health care to their citizens.

That virtually all of the top performers place a much greater emphasis on government’s role in ensuring social well-being is also undeniable. But the politics of such distinctions aside, the focus of those governments on social outcomes — on policies that enhance contentment and security as well as enriching both human capabilities and opportunities — may be seen as yet another sign of maturity.

It is also worth noting that providing the basics to ensure a high quality of life is not a formula for excess or the kind of economic calamities befalling parts of Europe today. For example, many of the countries that top quality-of-life lists, like Sweden, Luxembourg, Denmark, the Netherlands and Norway, all rank high in lists of fiscally responsible nations — well ahead of the United States, which ranks 28th on the Sovereign Fiscal Responsibility Index.

What these societies have in common is that rather than striving to be the biggest they instead aspire to be constantly better. Which, in the end, offers an important antidote to both the rhetoric of decline and mindless boosterism: the recognition that whether we are falling behind or achieving new heights is greatly determined both by what goals we set and how we measure our performance.
346 2011-10-09 Not so long ago, 6 percent was considered a disappointingly high unemployment rate. From 1995 to 2007, the jobless rate exceeded 6 percent for only a single five-month period in 2003 — and it never topped 7 percent.

“We’ve got a double-whammy effect,” says John C. Haltiwanger, an economics professor at the University of Maryland. The cyclical crisis has come on top of the secular one, and the two are now feeding off each other.

In the most likely case, the United States has fallen into a period somewhat similar to the one that Europe has endured for parts of the last generation; it is rich but struggling. A high unemployment rate will feed fears of national decline. The political scene may be tumultuous, as it already is. Many people will find themselves shut out of the work force.

Almost 6.5 million people have been officially unemployed for at least six months, and another few million have dropped out of the labor force — that is, they are no longer looking for work — since 2008. These hard-core unemployed highlight the nexus between long-term and short-term economic problems. Most lost their jobs because of the recession. But many will remain without work long after the economy begins growing again.

Indeed, they will themselves become a force weighing on the economy. Fairly or not, employers will be reluctant to hire them. Many with borderline health problems will end up in the federal disability program, which has become a shadow welfare program that most beneficiaries never leave.

For now, the main cause of the economic funk remains the financial crisis. The bursting of a generation-long, debt-enabled consumer bubble has left households rebuilding their balance sheets and businesses wary of hiring until they are confident that consumer spending will pick up. Even now, sales of many big-ticket items — houses, cars, appliances, many services — remain far below their pre-crisis peaks.

Although the details of every financial crisis differ, the broad patterns are similar. The typical crisis leads to almost a decade of elevated unemployment, according to oft-cited academic research by Carmen M. Reinhart and Kenneth S. Rogoff. Ms. Reinhart and Mr. Rogoff date the recent crisis from the summer of 2007, which would mean our economy was not even halfway through its decade of high unemployment.

Of course, making dark forecasts about the American economy, especially after a recession, can be dangerous. In just the last 50 years, doomsayers claimed that the United States was falling behind the Soviet Union, Japan and Germany, only to be proved wrong each time.

This country continues to have advantages that no other country, including China, does: the world’s best venture-capital network, a well-established rule of law, a culture that celebrates risk taking, an unmatched appeal to immigrants. These strengths often give rise to the next great industry, even when the strengths are less salient than the country’s problems.

THAT’S part of what happened in the 1930s. It’s also happened in the 1990s, when many people were worrying about a jobless recovery and economic decline. At a 1992 conference Bill Clinton convened shortly after his election to talk about the economy, participants recall, no one mentioned the Internet.

Still, the reasons for concern today are serious. Even before the financial crisis began, the American economy was not healthy. Job growth was so weak during the economic expansion from 2001 to 2007 that employment failed to keep pace with the growing population, and the share of working adults declined. For the average person with a job, income growth barely exceeded inflation.

The closest thing to a unified explanation for these problems is a mirror image of what made the 1930s so important. Then, the United States was vastly increasing its productive capacity, as Mr. Field argued in his recent book, “A Great Leap Forward.” Partly because the Depression was eliminating inefficiencies but mostly because of the emergence of new technologies, the economy was adding muscle and shedding fat. Those changes, combined with the vast industrialization for World War II, made possible the postwar boom.

In recent years, on the other hand, the economy has not done an especially good job of building its productive capacity. Yes, innovations like the iPad and Twitter have altered daily life. And, yes, companies have figured out how to produce just as many goods and services with fewer workers. But the country has not developed any major new industries that employ large and growing numbers of workers.

There is no contemporary version of the 1870s railroads, the 1920s auto industry or even the 1990s Internet sector. Total economic output over the last decade, as measured by the gross domestic product, has grown more slowly than in any 10-year period during the 1950s, ’60s, ’70s, ’80s or ’90s.

Perhaps the most important reason, beyond the financial crisis, is the overall skill level of the work force. The United States is the only rich country in the world that has not substantially increased the share of young adults with the equivalent of a bachelor’s degree over the past three decades. Some less technical measures of human capital, like the percentage of children living with two parents, have deteriorated. The country has also chosen not to welcome many scientists and entrepreneurs who would like to move here.

The relationship between skills and economic success is not an exact one, yet it is certainly strong enough to notice, and not just in the reams of peer-reviewed studies on the subject. Australia, New Zealand, Canada and much of Northern Europe have made considerable educational progress since the 1980s, for instance. Their unemployment rates, which were once higher than ours, are now lower. Within this country, the 50 most educated metropolitan areas have an average jobless rate of 7.3 percent, according to Moody’s Analytics; in the 50 least educated, the average rate is 11.4 percent.

Despite the media’s focus on those college graduates who are struggling, it’s not much of an exaggeration to say that people with a four-year degree — who have an unemployment rate of just 4.3 percent — are barely experiencing an economic downturn.

Economic downturns do often send people streaming back to school, and this one is no exception. So there is a chance that it will lead to a surge in skill formation. Yet it seems unlikely to do nearly as much on that score as the Great Depression, which helped make high school universal. High school, of course, is free. Today’s educational frontier, college, is not. In fact, it has become more expensive lately, as state cutbacks have led to tuition increases.

Beyond education, the American economy seems to be suffering from a misallocation of resources. Some of this is beyond our control. China’s artificially low currency has nudged us toward consuming too much and producing too little. But much of the misallocation is homegrown.

In particular, three giant industries — finance, health care and housing — now include large amounts of unproductive capacity. Housing may have shrunk, but it is still a bigger, more subsidized sector in this country than in many others.

Health care is far larger, with the United States spending at least 50 percent more per person on medical care than any other country, without getting vastly better results. (Some aspects of our care, like certain cancer treatments, are better, while others, like medical error rates, are worse.) The contrast suggests that a significant portion of medical spending is wasted, be it on approaches that do not make people healthier or on insurance-company bureaucracy.

In finance, trading volumes have boomed in recent decades, yet it is unclear how much all the activity has lifted living standards. Paul A. Volcker, the former Fed chairman, has mischievously said that the only useful recent financial innovation was the automated teller machine. Critics like Mr. Volcker argue that much of modern finance amounts to arbitrage, in which technology and globalization have allowed traders to profit from being the first to notice small price differences.

IN the process, Wall Street has captured a growing share of the world’s economic pie — thereby increasing inequality — without doing much to expand the pie. It may even have shrunk the pie, given that a new International Monetary Fund analysis found that higher inequality leads to slower economic growth.

The common question with these industries is whether they are using resources that could do more economic good elsewhere. “The health care problem is very similar to the finance problem,” says Lawrence F. Katz, a Harvard economist, “in that incredibly talented people are wasting their talent on something that is essentially a zero-sum game.”

In the short term, finance, health care and housing provide jobs, as their lobbyists are quick to point out. But it is hard to see how the jobs of the future will spring from unnecessary back surgery and garden-variety arbitrage. They differ from the growth engines of the past, which delivered fundamental value — faster transportation or new knowledge — and let other industries then build off those advances.

The United States has long overcome its less dynamic industries by replacing them with more dynamic ones. The decline of the horse and buggy, difficult as it may have been for people in the business, created no macroeconomic problems. The trouble today is that those new industries don’t seem to be arriving very quickly.

The rate at which new companies are created has been falling for most of the last decade. So has the pace at which existing companies add positions. “The current problem is not that we have tons of layoffs,” Mr. Katz says. “It’s that we don’t have much hiring.”

If history repeats itself, this situation will eventually turn around. Maybe some American scientist in a laboratory somewhere is about to make a breakthrough. Maybe an entrepreneur is on the verge of creating a great new product. Maybe the recent health care and financial-regulation laws will squeeze the bloat.

For now, the evidence for such optimism remains scant. And the economy remains millions of jobs away from being even moderately healthy.
347 2011-10-09 Congress certainly suffers from this problem. The country has a long list of roads and bridges that are either dangerous or obsolete. We can begin the inevitable process of rebuilding this infrastructure now, when construction costs are low and borrowing costs are essentially zero, or we can wait.

But why wait? Postponing will only make the projects cost more when we finally get around to starting them, and, in the meantime, we risk disaster if one of those bridges fails. Do we think we will no longer need bridges? If Greece defaults, American cars will not suddenly become amphibious.

Congress is not the only place where we can see paralysis. Corporations are hoarding cash at record rates. The Federal Reserve recently reported that nonfinancial companies in the United States were holding more than $2 trillion in cash and other liquid assets — money that is earning next to nothing. A considerable amount of that cash has been accumulated in the last two years — and the totals exclude the substantial sums the companies hold abroad in foreign subsidiaries. Of course, it can be sensible for businesses to have a source of emergency cash, but many appear to be stockpiling so much that it’s hard to imagine what emergency they fear. To cite just one example, Google is holding more than $39 billion in cash.

Google is far from alone. A recent survey of chief financial officers by Duke University reports that 55 percent of them say they won’t begin to deploy cash holdings in the next year. Many say they are waiting for economic uncertainty to decline.

Yet is such caution rational? As a shareholder, I would worry about a company that says it can’t find investments that can reasonably be expected to earn well above the tiny return of its cash.

Investment does not necessarily have to involve increasing capacity. Are there no plants or equipment that need upgrading? No promising research-and-development opportunities to be explored? Not even any parking lots that need to be repaved and painted?

I also do not buy the idea that companies need all this cash for acquisitions. If they really want to buy another business, they can issue stock to do so.

Loosening the purse strings just a little could have big effects on the economy. Suppose that American companies reduced their domestic cash holdings by just 10 percent and invested that $200 billion in productive investments. Using standard assumptions, these investments would spur growth in gross domestic product next year by about 1.3 percent and reduce unemployment by almost 0.7 percent. These investments would also increase tax revenue and generate long-term profits.

Some people contend that uncertainty about government regulation is making businesses cautious, but no solid evidence supports this claim. Corporations always complain about regulators, but the fact is that corporate profits are strong in many sectors. Those piles of cash didn’t come out of thin air.

SOME households are also displaying fearful investment behavior. I’m not referring to those that are struggling with debt and unemployment, but to the segments of our society whose finances have rebounded nicely. These folks are investing in United States Treasuries and money market accounts in record numbers.

If you are among these more fortunate households, you may also be passing up attractive investment opportunities that will earn much more than the 0.01 percent you’re getting from your money market account.

One such opportunity lies in making improvements to your home — assuming, of course, that you aren’t underwater on your mortgage. As a starting point, analyze ways to make your home more energy-efficient. Investing in insulation, windows, heating and air-conditioning and even solar collectors often provides excellent and highly predictable rates of return. Not only will you eventually make money, but you can pat yourself on the back with both hands since you’ll be helping to restart the economy while helping the environment.

Some homeowners are already embracing this idea: one of the economy’s few encouraging signs is that residential remodeling permits were recently up 24 percent over the previous

Sure, there is much to worry about these days. But freezing in place is seldom the right strategy. Personally, I am planning to hire someone to repaint my apartment. What about you? Maybe some new gutters?
348 2011-10-09 The questions he faces about his rightward shift over the years on the topics of most concern to social conservatives have become entangled in Mr. Romney’s broader challenge: establishing himself as authentic and principled, and battling the perception that he has reshaped himself for the politics of the moment.

With Mr. Romney having regained the perceived status of front-runner, his opponents have signaled that they will go after him hard from the right, questioning his conservative credentials and trying to force him off his economic message. He now has to parry those intensifying attacks without giving up the opportunity to win over independent voters should he become his party’s nominee and face next year.

Gov. of urged Republican voters in on Saturday to study the records of the candidates to find an “authentic and conservative leader.” There was little question that Mr. Romney was the subject of his remarks.

“You measure a leader by how they walk, not how they talk,” Mr. Perry said. “I’ve got a conservative record. I’m proud of that conservative record.”

Beyond Mr. Romney’s substantive positions, his faith is re-emerging as a concern among some evangelicals. On Saturday, a conservative activist speaking after Mr. Romney, Bryan Fischer, said without naming Mr. Romney that the next president had to be a man of “genuine” Christian faith. On Friday, a backer of Mr. Perry described Mr. Romney’s faith as a cult.

Mr. Perry later said he disagreed with that characterization, and some evangelical leaders said they were less concerned about Mr. Romney’s being a Mormon than about his stand on the issues.

Mr. Romney’s address on Saturday got a positive reception from many in the audience.

“Now the foundation needed for a strong economy and a strong military is a people of strong values,” Mr. Romney said, going on to promise that he would eliminate federal funding for and appoint judges who would vote to roll back Roe v. Wade.

In his 2008 race, Mr. Romney and his team reached out regularly to social conservatives. He once even sent evangelical leaders expensive wooden chairs with brass plaques promising a seat at “our table.”

Advisers said the campaign’s approach in 2012 was based on a belief that conservative voters and religious leaders know far more about Mr. Romney’s views than they did four years ago. They noted that Mr. Romney had attended the Values Voter Summit conference every year. They said that there were no plans for him to give another speech about his Mormon faith but that he would continue to address social issues as they were raised.

Mr. Romney is also determined to keep his focus on the economic struggles of voters, believing that is Mr. Obama’s biggest vulnerability. Some social conservative leaders say evangelical voters will mobilize behind any Republican nominee, including Mr. Romney, just because they are so united in their desire to defeat Mr. Obama.

Still, Mr. Romney clearly has not quelled all the doubts about him among social conservatives because of his positions over the years both on social issues and the health care legislation he signed as governor of , which has many similarities to the national legislation signed by Mr. Obama.

“He did a good job and hit all the issues,” Mathew D. Staver, the dean of the Liberty University School of Law, said after Mr. Romney’s speech Saturday. “It did not change my opinion, however. He needs to renounce RomneyCare and not defend it or distinguish it from ObamaCare.”

Richard Land, the head of the Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission of the , said before the speech that evangelicals felt “some reluctance” about Mr. Romney. They wonder “how strongly he feels about their issues.”

But Mr. Land added that “most evangelicals and social conservatives don’t think the country can survive four more years of .”

, the director of the Faith and Freedom Coalition, said Mr. Romney’s strategy might work to his advantage.

“My sense is that his strategy this time is not to genuflect or pander,” Mr. Reed said. “Romney has retooled to some extent and is running as someone who knows how to turn around the economy and create jobs. That’s not necessarily a mistake.”

Mr. Romney’s evolution on the issues has been well documented. On abortion, he once called himself “pro-choice” and supported Planned Parenthood. But after being elected governor of Massachusetts, he publicly switched his position, declaring that the debate over research had convinced him of the “sanctity of life.” Since then, Mr. Romney has called himself “pro-life.”

As a candidate for a Massachusetts seat in the Senate, Mr. Romney wrote a letter in 1994 arguing that “we must make equality for gays and lesbians a mainstream concern.” The letter, to the Log Cabin Republicans, a gay advocacy group, said he would do more for gay rights than Senator , his Democratic opponent.

Since then, however, Mr. Romney has fought against gay rights, championing an amendment to the Massachusetts Constitution that would ban . As a presidential candidate, he has opposed same-sex marriage and this summer signed a pledge to support a federal constitutional amendment that would define marriage as between one man and one woman.

On gun rights, Mr. Romney once defended the tough laws in Massachusetts, promising not to “chip away” at them. But more recently, he has stuck to the line favored by the , proclaiming his unqualified support for the Second Amendment and saying government needs to enforce existing gun laws, not create new ones.

Now, when asked on the campaign trail if he has flip-flopped, Mr. Romney points to his book “No Apology,” which lays out his positions on the issues, and quickly moves on.

“It’s not that every single issue I looked at in my entire life I’ve never changed my view on,” Mr. Romney said at a recent town-hall-style meeting in . “In the private sector, if you don’t change your view when the facts change, well, you’ll get fired — for being stubborn and stupid. So I’m very happy with where I am and the things I believe.”
349 2011-10-09 Tamaki Oshita and Spencer Weiss were married Thursday at the Green Building, an event space in Brooklyn. Judge Elizabeth Pessala of the Westbury Village Court in Nassau County officiated.

Mrs. Weiss, 39, is an assistant manager at the Natural Wine Company, a wine shop in Brooklyn. She graduated from Shippensburg University. She is a daughter of Tamie and Yuji Oshita of Hiroshima, Japan. The bride’s father, now retired, was a lead editor of The Chugoku Shimbun, a Hiroshima newspaper.

Mr. Weiss, 34, is the general manager at Rouge Tomate, a restaurant in Manhattan. He graduated from the State University at Binghamton. He is a son of Patricia A. Weiss of Long Island City, Queens, and Daniel E. Weiss of Newton, N.J. The bridegroom’s mother is an astrologer in Long Island City who specializes in horoscopes for newborns. His father is the producer of jazz recordings for Shanachie Entertainment, a record label in Newton.

The bride’s first marriage ended in divorce.
350 2011-10-09 Most unions do not last as long as that of Williams and Woods. The two-year itch is a common phenomenon in the caddie/player relationship, and on occasion, the players are the ones left holding their bags.

“I’ve been fired as a player twice,” said the golfer Paul Goydos, who acquired the nickname Sunshine in merry mockery of his pessimistic outlook on the game. He said he did not take either rejection personally, nor should anybody else.

“Everyone’s an independent contractor out here,” he said.

LaCava left Dustin Johnson, an American ranked fifth in the world, last month. He had reached out to Woods’s agent to let him know he was interested in replacing Williams. After he and Woods reached an agreement, LaCava waited two days, until after the final round of the Tour Championship, to break the news to Johnson.

“It’s hard in the fact that Dustin was great to me,” LaCava said, adding: “But was it hard to go leave to go work for Tiger? No.”

Why not? “Because he’s Tiger Woods,” LaCava said. “Enough said. It’s a no-brainer, isn’t it?”

Not exactly. LaCava’s decision to leave Johnson for Woods surprised some caddies, who are like horsemen when it comes to picking their rides. They place great weight on recent performances, which makes sense since, in addition to a base salary for the week — roughly $1,500, a large chunk of which goes toward travel and lodging expenses — they also receive a percentage of their boss’s earnings: 6 percent for a made cut, 8 percent for a top-10 finish and 10 percent for a victory.

Over the past two years, Johnson has had 13 top-10 finishes on the PGA Tour, including three victories. Woods has no victories and four top-10s. Johnson is ranked fifth on the current money list, 113 spots ahead of Woods.

“Dustin Johnson’s an A.T.M. machine,” said the veteran caddie Ricci Roberts, who is two weeks into his latest tour of duty with Ernie Els.

For much of the past two decades, Roberts has played Billy Martin to Els’s George Steinbrenner. Asked how many times he has been hired and fired by Els, Roberts replied: “I’ve lost count. Five or six.”

Els fired Roberts last year. He called him in August after missing the cut at the P.G.A. Championship and asked if he would be interested in getting back together. Roberts said his reaction was, Why not?

“At the end of the day, better the devil you know than the devil you don’t know,” he said.

Els said nobody save for his wife, Liezl, knows him better. “It’s almost like we have the same feelings,” he said, adding: “Obviously I’m glad he keeps coming back. I don’t know how many times I can keep doing it to him.”

The most wide-open golf course can seem awfully claustrophobic, with the golfers swapping partners as if they are at a square dance. During the first round of the 2007 Canadian Open, the caddie Mike Mollett was fired by his boss, Jay Williamson, on the back nine after a disagreement over wind conditions intensified and became a tempest.

It mattered not that Mollett had helped Williamson to a second-place finish at the Travelers Championship the previous month. “Things can go from the penthouse to the outhouse in a hurry out here,” Mollett said.

After being removed from the bag, he threw all but one of Williamson’s balls into a water hazard and stalked off. Within an hour, he said, he was hired by another golfer, who had fired his caddie for giving him bad yardages.

Mollett, who has been caddying for Paul Stankowski for nearly two years, was recounting the story last week while standing guard over his boss’s bag. Stankowski wandered over, heard what Mollett was saying and interjected, “He’s the best caddie.” He added that some personalities on the tour “are like a lighter fluid and a match. Apart they’re fine. Put them together and — whoosh!”

The veteran caddie Tony Navarro’s seven-year partnership with Scott ended in the spring, and there were many who saw him as a natural fit to replace his successor, Williams, on Woods’s bag. Navarro received a glowing recommendation from one of his former employers, Greg Norman, and was interested in the job but did not reach out to Woods’s camp.

“That’s not my style; that’s not the way I work,” said Navarro, who thought Woods would contact any caddies he was interested in hiring.

It was the second time he missed out on working for Woods. In 1999, before Woods hired Williams, Navarro found out through back channels that the job was his if he wanted it. But he was in the midst of a 12-year partnership with Norman and said his loyalties were with him.

“I don’t regret it,” said Navarro, who is caddying for Kevin Chappell on a week-to-week basis.

He spoke highly of LaCava’s abilities and said, “I think he and Tiger will work well together.”

LaCava is a die-hard fan of the football Giants; Woods’s favorite team is the Oakland Raiders. Between the ropes, LaCava has the laid-back demeanor of Giants quarterback Eli Manning. Woods has the same snarling game face as Raiders defensive tackle Richard Seymour.

For the player/caddie collaboration to work, the right personality fit is essential. Will two men with such outwardly different temperaments bring out the best or the worst in each other?

“Nobody needs to worry about us,” LaCava said. “I’m not going to bark at people but I can be intense. We’ll be fine.”

GAINING LITTLE GROUND Playing in his first PGA Tour event in seven weeks, Tiger Woods shot his second straight three-under 68, leaving him in the middle of the pack at the Frys.com Open in San Martin, Calif. He was at four-under 209. Briny Baird held a two-shot lead at 13-under 200 through three rounds. (AP)
351 2011-10-09 France had advanced to the final eight after back-to-back losses against New Zealand and Tonga. No team has won the Webb Ellis Cup after losing a group-stage game. Of the six nations remaining, only the All Blacks and Springboks had perfect records in the group phase.

“We didn’t want to go out like this; we wanted to show how we can play rugby,” the France captain Thierry Dusautoir said. “I think we did it well, so now we need to keep it up.”

The French benefited from 10 missed tackles and 5 handling errors by England in the first half to build a 16-point lead.

Yachvili kicked two penalties before wing Clerc and full-back Médard went over in the same corner nine minutes apart. Clerc pirouetted past two tacklers on a darting run and Médard crashed over for Les Blues after Alexis Palisson slipped the ball back inside to him before being bundled into touch.

England took until the 55th minute to score its first points when Foden cut through a gap and Wilkinson converted to make it 16-7. Trinh-Duc added a 73rd-minute drop goal to give France a 12-point buffer.

Cueto scored with three minutes remaining after a review of his grounding of the ball by the TV match official. Toby Flood’s conversion attempt went wide. Morgan Parra had a chance to make it 21-12 with the last kick of the game, though his effort struck a post.

WALES MOVES ON Wales earlier advanced to the semifinals for the first time since the inaugural tournament and rebounded from missing the knockout stages four years ago.

Shane Williams, Mike Phillips and Jonathan Davies scored tries with Rhys Priestland kicking two conversions and Leigh Halfpenny booting a penalty for Wales. Ireland’s points came from a Keith Earls try and a conversion and penalty from Ronan O’Gara.

“It’s a massive achievement for us, we’ve worked so hard,” the Wales captain Sam Warburton said. “The team in ’87 did it. They managed to get the third place. We have a semifinal next week, all the boys are absolutely thrilled.”

Ireland, which came into the tournament after losing all four of its tune-up games, upset Australia, 15-6, on Sept. 16 on its way to finishing first in its group. The win over the Wallabies split the four quarterfinals into matchups between teams from the same hemisphere, ensuring that the final will feature one team each from the north and south.

In a meeting of the teams ranked Nos. 5 and 6 by the International Rugby Board, Wales led, 10-3, at halftime on wing Williams’s converted third-minute try and Halfpenny’s penalty.

Ireland, which had more possession and territorial advantage playing with the wind, turned down three kickable shots at goal to try to score a try, though each time was denied by a Welsh defense that made a 130 successful tackles to Ireland’s 79. O’Gara kicked Ireland’s first-half points.

Earls dived over for a try five minutes after the break that O’Gara converted to make it 10-10.
352 2011-10-09 When you transform an apple by cooking, you may make it soft, fluffy, chewy, savory, sweet or creamy — the potential is enormous. Yes, an apple loses some juiciness and freshness when you cook it, but as an ingredient it’s just as versatile as a potato. (You probably know that in French the potato is called pomme de terre, or “apple of the earth.”) The surprise from a raw apple comes from the variety and the season, whereas the surprise from a cooked apple comes from what you do with it.

Just as long as you don’t make sauce. The goal here is to offer you some other options.

It does matter which apple you choose for cooking. There are enough varieties to accurately call the number “countless,” but they can be categorized. Some are better when cooked than raw (this is not to say they’re not good when raw), and among those I’d include Idareds, Romes, Cortlands and even Empires. McIntoshes cook pretty well, as do so-called all-purpose like Granny Smith. (Of the common varieties, the best eating apples, like Golden Delicious, can of course be cooked, but they lose a lot of their flavor.)

This matrix explores cooked apples in various forms, at least some of which (I hope) you’ll find unexpected. All of the sweet versions are wonderful as either dessert or breakfast, while the savory ones make terrific side dishes for just about anything roasted or pan-cooked. (Add salt and pepper to these.)

Peeling is always optional — I personally like the texture of apple skins — but coring is not. If you’re slicing apples or cutting them into chunks, you can core them the easy way: cut them into quarters, then take out the seeds with a paring knife. If you’re halving them, take out the core with a melon baller and trim the rest with a paring knife. And if you want to cut them into rings, dig into the flower (the nonstem) end with a paring knife until you get all the inedible parts out, or use an apple corer.
353 2011-10-09 The surprise from a raw apple comes from the variety and the season, whereas the surprise from a cooked apple comes from what you do with it. Related article »
354 2011-10-09 Flash mobs  -  brief group assemblies usually for some whimsical purpose like dancing or pillow fighting  - go commercial at the Marco Island Marriott Beach Resort near Naples, Fla. The hotel will assemble your very own flash mob to energize a sal...
355 2011-10-09 WEISS--Piero, on October 2, 2011. Dr. Piero Weiss, 83, pianist and professor of music history, survived by Carole Weiss; his children Antonio Weiss and Maria Weiss Leandri, all of New York; his brother Carlo Weiss, of Como, Italy; and grandchildre...
356 2011-10-09 Cambridge, Mass.     IN 1980, Steve Jobs went to a brown-bag lunch at Stanford business school, looking for summer help. Other Apple executives were busy explaining what a personal computer was when he sauntered in; they stopped mid-sentence as, d...
357 2011-10-10 In an effort to secure lucrative brokerage and trading business, big banks like Goldman Sachs, Deutsche Bank, Morgan Stanley and Bank of America have become powerful recruiting forces for their biggest hedge fund clients....
358 2011-10-10 In an effort to secure lucrative brokerage and trading business, big banks like Goldman Sachs, Deutsche Bank, Morgan Stanley and Bank of America have become powerful recruiting forces for their biggest hedge fund clients....
359 2011-10-10 Netflix changed course and decided not to split up its online streaming and DVD services....
360 2011-10-10 Netflix changed course and decided not to split up its online streaming and DVD services....
361 2011-10-10 Netflix changed course and decided not to split up its online streaming and DVD services.
362 2011-10-10 Apple will hold an event for Apple employees to commemorate Steve Jobs on Oct. 19 on its Silicon Valley campus....
363 2011-10-10 Apple will hold an event for Apple employees to commemorate Steve Jobs on Oct. 19 on its Silicon Valley campus....
364 2011-10-10 Washington eyes Occupy Wall Street's political implications. Also, a report from New Hampshire, where the Republican campaign is centered this week....
365 2011-10-10 Washington eyes Occupy Wall Street's political implications. Also, a report from New Hampshire, where the Republican campaign is centered this week....
366 2011-10-10 Apple announced Monday that the iPhone 4S broke previous sales records for iPhones, saying it processed more than one million orders in the first 24 hours....
367 2011-10-10 Apple announced Monday that the iPhone 4S broke previous sales records for iPhones, saying it processed more than one million orders in the first 24 hours....
368 2011-10-10 The clashes on Sunday in the Tunisian capital were an example of religiously based violence that has picked up just before the country is set to hold elections....
369 2011-10-10 The clashes on Sunday in the Tunisian capital were an example of religiously based violence that has picked up just before the country is set to hold elections....
370 2011-10-10 Plato, meanwhile, has filed motions seeking to block an acquisition of Renaissance by Permira....
371 2011-10-10 Plato, meanwhile, has filed motions seeking to block an acquisition of Renaissance by Permira....
372 2011-10-10 After a barage of consumer complaints, Netflix has scratched plans to spin off its DVD business into a separate company called Qwikster, Media Decoder reports. "There is a difference between moving quickly - which Netflix has done very well for ye...
373 2011-10-10 The Day: Agree with the Occupy Wall Street demonstrators or not, they are denouncing the recklessness of the financial titans who brought the economy to its knees. Also, what City Room is reading in other papers and blogs....
374 2011-10-10 The Day: Agree with the Occupy Wall Street demonstrators or not, they are denouncing the recklessness of the financial titans who brought the economy to its knees. Also, what City Room is reading in other papers and blogs....
375 2011-10-10 While a dip in prices is potentially good news for the developing world, a grain expert says that tough economic times really only guarantee uncertainty for food security....
376 2011-10-10 While a dip in prices is potentially good news for the developing world, a grain expert says that tough economic times really only guarantee uncertainty for food security....
377 2011-10-10 Netflix declared that it had moved too fast when it tried to spin off the old-fashioned DVD service into a new company....
378 2011-10-10 Netflix decided to keep its DVD-by-mail and streaming service together under one name, abandoning a breakup plan but keeping a price increase....
379 2011-10-10 Plus: How effective is your e-mail marketing?...
380 2011-10-10 Plus: How effective is your e-mail marketing?...
381 2011-10-10 On the day that an article is published about how infrequently kickers miss extra points, two kickers miss extra points....
382 2011-10-10 On the day that an article is published about how infrequently kickers miss extra points, two kickers miss extra points....
383 2011-10-10 The N.H.L. returned to Winnipeg on Sunday, and the Jets’ 5-1 loss to the Montreal Canadiens did little to put a damper on a big civic celebration at MTS Centre. As the clock ticked down, the crowd of 15,004 gave the Jets a standing ovation for the first N.H.L. game in Winnipeg in 15 years.

¶ Shootout goals by Jordan Eberle and Ales Hemsky led the Edmonton Oilers to a 2-1 victory over the visiting Pittsburgh Penguins.
384 2011-10-10 Alice P. Gast, president of Lehigh University and the head of the academy panel, said that the paper “points out connections that deserve further consideration.”

Dr. Gast, a chemical engineer, said the “chemical signatures” in the mailed anthrax and their potential value to the criminal investigation had not been fully explored. “It just wasn’t pursued as vigorously as the microbiology,” she said, alluding to the analysis of micro-organisms. She also noted that the academy panel suggested a full review of classified government research on anthrax, which her panel never saw.

In interviews, the three authors said their analysis suggested that the F.B.I. might have pursued the wrong suspect and that the case should be reopened. Their position may embolden calls for a national commission to investigate the first major bioterrorist attack in American history.

But other scientists who reviewed the paper said they thought the tin might be a random contaminant, not a clue to complex processing. And the Justice Department has not altered its conclusion that the deadly letters were mailed by Dr. Ivins, an Army anthrax specialist who worked at Fort Detrick, Md., and killed himself in 2008 as prosecutors prepared to charge him.

Dean Boyd, a Justice Department spokesman, said the paper provided “no evidence whatsoever that the spores used in the mailings were produced” at a location other than Fort Detrick. He said investigators believe Dr. Ivins grew and dried the anthrax spores himself.

“Speculation regarding certain characteristics of the spores is just that — speculation,” Mr. Boyd said. “We stand by our conclusion.”

The tin is surprising because it kills micro-organisms and is used in antibacterial products. The authors of the paper say its presence in the mailed anthrax suggests that the germs, after cultivation and drying, got a specialized silicon coating, with tin as a chemical catalyst. Such coatings, known in industry as microencapsulants, are common in the manufacture of drugs and other products.

“It indicates a very special processing, and expertise,” said Martin E. Hugh-Jones, lead author of the paper and a world authority on anthrax at Louisiana State University. The deadly germs sent through the mail to news organizations and two senators, he added, were “far more sophisticated than needed.”

In addition to Dr. Hugh-Jones, the authors of the new paper are Barbara Hatch Rosenberg, a biologist, and Stuart Jacobsen, a chemist; both have speculated publicly about the case and criticized the F.B.I. for years.

In 2008, days after Dr. Ivins’s suicide, the bureau made public a sweeping but circumstantial case against him. Last year, the bureau formally closed the case, acknowledging that some scientific questions were unanswered but asserting that the evidence against Dr. Ivins was overwhelming.

Investigators found that the microbiologist had worked unusual late-night hours in his lab in the days before each of the two known anthrax mailings in September and October 2001; that he often mailed letters and packages under assumed names; that he had a history of homicidal threats and spoke of “Crazy Bruce” as a personality that did things he later could not remember.

Dr. Ivins had hidden from family and friends an obsession with a sorority — Kappa Kappa Gamma — with an office near the Princeton, N.J., mailbox where the letters were mailed. The F.B.I. recorded Dr. Ivins’s speaking ambiguously to a friend that he did “not have any recollection” of mailing the letters, that he was “not a killer at heart” and that “I, in my right mind, wouldn’t do it.”

Yet no evidence directly tied Dr. Ivins to the crime. Some of the scientist’s former colleagues have argued that he could not have made the anthrax and that investigators hounded a troubled man to death. They noted that the F.B.I. pursued several other suspects, most notoriously another former Army scientist, Dr. , whom the bureau eventually exonerated and paid a $4.6 million legal settlement.

In its report last February, the panel sharply criticized some of the F.B.I.’s scientific work, saying the genetic link between the attack anthrax and a supply in Dr. Ivins’s lab was “not as conclusive” as the bureau asserted.

If the authors of the new paper are correct about the silicon-tin coating, it appears likely that Dr. Ivins could not have made the anthrax powder alone with the equipment he possessed, as the F.B.I. maintains. That would mean either that he got the powder from elsewhere or that he was not the perpetrator.

If Dr. Ivins did not make the powder, one conceivable source might be classified government research on anthrax, carried out for years by the military and the . Dr. Ivins had ties to several researchers who did such secret work.

The Government Accountability Office, the investigative arm of Congress, is conducting its own review of the anthrax evidence. Nancy Kingsbury, the official overseeing the project, said the agency had spoken with the paper’s authors and judged that “their questions are reasonable.”

Beyond the world of forensics, tin is a humdrum additive used to kill micro-organisms in products like paint, wood preservatives and even toothpaste. But microbiologists say that the nutrients and additives used to grow Bacillus anthracis, the anthrax bacterium, are typically free of tin.

So in late 2002, when the F.B.I. found significant quantities of tin in the mailed powders, it set out to find its source. By 2003, the bureau was calling tin “an element of interest” — echoing its terminology for human suspects — according to disclosures culled from 9,600 pages of F.B.I. documents by The Times.

Over the years, the bureau performed hundreds of tests to explore tin’s use in microbiology and significance in the attack germs. It also hunted for clues to how the spores had become laced with silicon, which the United States had used decades ago as a coating in germ weapons. In 2005, scientists at an internal F.B.I. symposium called tin a possible fingerprint of the attack germs.

After that, the forensic clue disappeared from public discussion, except for a passing mention in a 2009 press release. “Although the chemical fingerprint of the spores is interesting,” the release said, “it was not relevant to the investigation.”

In the end, the F.B.I. — without alluding to its private tin labors — declared publicly that the attack germs had no special coating, saying that conclusion supported its finding that Dr. Ivins had grown and dried the spores alone, using standard equipment in his lab at Fort Detrick.

Several anthrax scientists who reviewed the new paper at the request of The Times said they believed it neglected the possibility that the tin and silicon were meaningless contaminants rather than sophisticated additives.

Johnathan L. Kiel, a retired Air Force scientist who worked on anthrax for many years, said that the spores “pick up everything” and that the silicon might be residue of a commercial product used on laboratory glassware to keep spores from sticking. He said tin might even be picked up from metal lab containers, though he has not tested that idea.

“It doesn’t have to be some super-secret process,” Dr. Kiel said. Other experts suggested that the tin might have come from anti-foam products, disinfectants or water.

The trouble with such conjecture is that the F.B.I. spent years testing for tin in microbiology lab supplies — and reported none, according to bureau documents.

Dr. Gast, the head of the National Academy of Sciences panel, noted that her group strongly recommended that future investigations of the attacks examine the government’s classified work on anthrax.

She called access to secret records “an important aspect of providing more clarity on what we know and what we don’t know.”
385 2011-10-10 James O’Connor scored on a penalty in the 72nd minute and Australia rallied to beat defending champion South Africa, 11-9, in a Rugby World Cup quarterfinal in Wellington, New Zealand. In a semifinal, Australia will face New Zealand, which beat Argentina, 33-10.
386 2011-10-10 The Court of Appeals, in Albany, has at times been among the most influential state courts in the country. Professor Bonventre, a leading scholar on the court, said Judge Lippman, 66, was writing dissents at triple the rate he did when he first took the bench.

For the year ending in June, Judge Lippman wrote dissents in 15 cases — tied with a conservative judge, Robert S. Smith, as the author of the most dissents on the court. That is sharply more than his two predecessors as chief judge, who wrote about one or two dissents a year.

Those dissents spell out positions that make Judge Lippman the most liberal New York chief judge in more than 25 years, said Professor Bonventre, who has published some of his research on his legal blog, New York Court Watcher.

Some lawyers and law professors said the dissenting opinions laid out a clear judicial philosophy, while others said they may reveal the frustrations of a liberal leading a court with a conservative majority.

“It suggests he may have little influence as an intellectual leader behind the scenes, and so hopes to exercise influence through his public voice,” said James A. Gardner, a professor and vice dean at the University at Buffalo Law School.

Judge Lippman declined to be interviewed for this article. He has publicly said that he differed from the leadership approach of his immediate predecessor, Judith S. Kaye. She has publicly said she worked for unanimity on the court, when possible. “I am a result-oriented person,” Judge Lippman said in an interview last year, “and the result I am looking for is not necessarily unanimity.”

His increasing willingness to dissent seemed to be a logical next step in his leadership, said Bruce Green, a Fordham Law School professor. Professor Green noted that losing judicial arguments often became the basis for later legal changes by legislatures or courts.

“The message I get” from Judge Lippman’s dissents, Professor Green said, “is, ‘You’re put on the court to be your own person and to express your views, and I’m going to do it.’ ”

The 15 dissents Judge Lippman wrote last year offer a glimpse of fervent disagreements on the court. Professor Bonventre’s studies show that Judge Kaye wrote dissents an average of only 1.4 times annually for the 16 years she was chief judge, and that her predecessor, Sol Wachtler, wrote dissents an average of 1.9 times a year for his eight years.

Court statistics show that changes Judge Lippman has brought to the court have lasted. In Judge Kaye’s final year, 82 percent of the decisions were unanimous. Last year the unanimity rate slipped to 67 percent.

Some lawyers say that by avoiding compromise, the court’s majority rulings are clearer because they do not need to be softened to win votes. But some lawyers say Judge Lippman simply may not be able to control the other judges on the court. “One possibility,” said Richard Briffault, a Columbia Law professor, “is that he’s not as good at getting compromise as Judge Kaye was.”

But Professor Bonventre, who has been studying the court for 30 years, sees a more strategic explanation for Judge Lippman’s unusual decision to make public his disagreements with his own court. “The rest of the court knows,” he said, “that if they go too far afield from his point of view, he is going to go public.”
387 2011-10-10 ¶Kraft Foods named Saatchi & Saatchi, part of the Publicis Groupe, to handle the worldwide creative duties for its Trident gum brand, which had been handled by JWT, part of WPP. Spending for American ads last year was estimated at more than $20 million; a figure for spending in other countries was unavailable.

¶Howard Bragman joined Reputation.com, Redwood City, Calif., as vice chairman, a new post. He will continue as chairman of Fifteen Minutes Public Relations, Los Angeles; he recently relinquished his post as chief executive of Fifteen Minutes to Bill Harrison, who was promoted from president and chief operating officer.

¶Gina Masullo joined BBMG, New York, as senior vice president and group director, leading a new division devoted to public relations and social media. She had most recently been president at Word Count Communications.

¶Elizabeth W. Scott joined Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, New York, as chief media and digital officer, a new post. She had been vice president for programming and business affairs at Major League Baseball, New York.

¶Amusement Park Entertainment, Los Angeles, was formed as a joint venture by the Interpublic Group of Companies, New York, and Jimmy Smith, who had been group creative director on the Gatorade account at the Playa del Rey, Calif., office of TBWA/Chiat/Day, part of the TBWA Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group. Mr. Smith will be chairman, chief executive and chief creative officer at Amusement Park, which will specialize in the development of creative content.
388 2011-10-10 The full 9.8 percent drop in income from the start of the recession to this June — the most recent month in the study — appears to be the largest in several decades, according to other Census Bureau data. Gordon W. Green Jr., who wrote the report with John F. Coder, called the decline “a significant reduction in the American standard of living.”

That reduction occurred even though the unemployment rate fell slightly, to 9.2 percent in June compared with 9.5 percent two years earlier. Two main forces appear to have held down pay: the number of people outside the labor force — neither working nor looking for work — has risen; and the hourly pay of employed people has failed to keep pace with inflation, as the prices of oil products and many foods have jumped.

During the recession itself, by contrast, wage gains outpaced inflation.

One reason pay has stagnated is that many people who lost their jobs in the recession — and remained out of work for months — have taken pay cuts in order to be hired again. In a separate study, Henry S. Farber, an economics professor at , found that people who lost jobs in the recession and later found work again made an average of 17.5 percent less than they had in their old jobs.

“As a labor economist, I do not think the recession has ended,” Mr. Farber said. “Job losers are having more trouble than ever before finding full-time jobs.”

Mr. Farber added that this downturn was “fundamentally different” from most previous ones. Historically, other economists say, financial crises and debt-caused bubbles have led to deeper, more protracted downturns.

Mr. Green and Mr. Coder said the persistently high rate of unemployment and the long duration of unemployment helped explain the decline in income during the recovery.

In the recession, the average length of time a person who lost a job was unemployed increased to 24.1 weeks in June 2009, from 16.6 weeks in December 2007, according to the federal . Since the end of the recession, that figure has continued to increase, reaching 40.5 weeks in September, the longest in more than 60 years.

The new study by Mr. Green and Mr. Coder is based on monthly census surveys, rather than the annual data that appeared in last month’s census report on income. The monthly figures allow researchers to measure income changes more precisely during a recession or a recovery and provide more current information. The annual report is based on surveys conducted early in the following year, and people sometimes confuse how much money they are making at the time of the survey with how much they made the previous year. Additionally, recessions usually do not line up with a calendar year.

A committee of academic economists at the National Bureau of Economic Research, a private group widely considered the arbiter of the business cycle, judged that the most recent recession began in December 2007. The bureau defines a recession as a significant, broad-based decline in economic activity.

The economists said the recession ended in June 2009. In every quarter since then, the economy has grown.

Some economists see signs that the may be in or about to enter another recession, though the evidence is mixed.

In their new study, Mr. Green and Mr. Coder found that income dropped more, in percentage terms, for some groups already making less, a factor that they say may have contributed to rising .

From June 2007 to June of this year, they said, median annual household income declined by 7.8 percent for non-Hispanic whites, to $56,320, and by 6.8 percent for Hispanics, to $39,901. For blacks, household income declined 9.2 percent, to $31,784.

Mr. Green and Mr. Coder, who both worked at the Census Bureau for more than 25 years, found other income changes over the four-year period examined.

For example, income, after adjustment for inflation, declined fairly substantially for households headed by people under age 62, but it rose 4.7 percent for those headed by people 65 to 74, many of whom are not in the labor force. The change was negligible for those 62 to 64.

The type of employment also made a difference. Real median annual income declined to a similar degree for households headed by private-sector wage workers (4.3 percent) and government-sector workers (3.9 percent), but fell much more for the self-employed (12.3 percent).

Family households generally had larger declines in real income than other households. Men living alone showed a bigger decline than women living alone.

Education levels were also a factor. Median annual income declined most for households headed by someone with an associate’s degree, dropping 14 percent, to $53,195, in the four-year period that ended in June 2011, the report said.

For households headed by people who had not completed high school, median income declined by 7.9 percent, to $25,157. For those with a bachelor’s degree or more, income declined by 6.8 percent, to $82,846.
389 2011-10-10 “Your Soaring Insurance Premiums” (editorial, Oct. 4) makes plain that the rise in the cost of health insurance premiums will not be mitigated until the nation addresses underlying medical cost drivers.

Federal government data confirm that during the 2000s the growth in premiums tracked directly with the growth in benefits. These same data also show that the small portion of premiums allocated to health plans’ administrative costs and profits has declined for six consecutive years.

We know what should be done. The outdated fee-for-service mentality that pervades too much of our system is unsustainable. Better alignment of incentives among doctors, hospitals and patients would yield savings and improved quality. More objective research about what treatments, drugs and devices work effectively would help patients and doctors make informed decisions.

Establishing safe harbors for providers who follow evidence-based guidelines would address a leading cause of redundant tests and unnecessary hospital stays.
390 2011-10-10 Iowa has $3 million in contracts with Pearson. A spokeswoman for Dr. Glass said that he was “confident he abided by all legal and ethical rules” and that he was fully cooperating with the board.

At a time when state budgets are being cut, a free trip can look tempting. The first three years that Pearson financed the trips, no more than six commissioners attended any of them; last month, in Brazil, 12 were at the meeting.

In an e-mail, Mark Nieker, president of the Pearson Foundation, wrote, “We once again categorically refute any suggestion that the events are in any way unethical or designed to enable Pearson to win contracts.”

Kate Dando, a spokeswoman for the Council of Chief State School Officers, the nonprofit group that represents education commissioners, said by e-mail, “We do believe that understanding the range of successful education work around the world can make our members more thoughtful and effective.” She did not respond to questions about the ethics of accepting gifts from Pearson.

Officials from Pearson and the council would not say how much the trips cost. Mr. Nieker said the foundation provides an annual grant to the council, which then plans the agenda for the trips and invites the commissioners.

The Pearson Foundation’s most recent federal tax form, filed a year ago, lists a $100,000 contribution to the school officers’ council.

Whatever the costs, the commissioners travel in style: during the Finland conference in 2009 they stayed at the Hotel Kamp in Helsinki, whose Web site lists room rates beginning at $340.

Last month, when asked for the list of commissioners attending the conferences, neither the council nor Pearson responded. Last week, when asked again, Ms. Dando provided 20 names.

Pearson is eager to sell practically any product a state or local school district would want to buy, including prepackaged curriculums, and programs to turn around low-performing schools.

is paying Pearson $138 million to administer the state’s standardized testing program; is paying $110 million and $57 million. All three of their commissioners have attended the conferences.

“Any attempt to draw a connection between states that attend and customers of Pearson is based on a false premise,” Mr. Nieker said, because the company’s business operations and its foundation are separate.

But there appears to be considerable intermingling. For example, a woman named Kathy Hurley is vice president of strategic partnerships at both the company and the foundation.

Pearson officials would not identify the company executives who had attended the foundation’s conferences. But I was able to track down the names of 12 who were at the Finland conference and 9 who went to Singapore.

A report after the Finland conference listed the 10 corporate divisions that were involved, noting that their executives were “also part of this dynamic delegation.”

At least one state commissioner, Michael P. Flanagan of Michigan, said he stopped attending conferences because of ethics concerns. The awarding of contracts to Pearson in Kentucky and Virginia illustrate the problem.

In April, CTB/McGraw Hill submitted the lowest bid to run Kentucky’s testing program, but Pearson, whose bid was $2 million higher, was selected. In May, the state’s commissioner, Terry Holliday, wrote on his blog that he recently “had the honor” of taking a trip to sponsored by the council, the and the Pearson Foundation, and in September he went to Brazil, too.

A spokeswoman for Dr. Holliday said the state’s decision “was based on best value and not simply a low bid.” She said a committee of local and state officials ran the selection process, and Dr. Holliday had no role in it.

In September 2009, Patricia I. Wright, the Virginia commissioner, attended the Finland conference. Among the Pearson executives there was Scott Drossos, president of Pearson’s K-12 Solutions.

On Dec. 11, 2009, Mr. Drossos responded to a request from Virginia for “a lead turnaround partner” that would serve low-achieving public schools. Four months later, Pearson was announced as one of the four winners, and a Pearson news release quoted Dr. Wright as praising “qualified providers like Pearson” and Mr. Drossos as admiring Virginia’s “commitment to reform.” In June 2010, the state named Pearson as one of 13 companies approved to provide online learning services. In another Pearson news release, Dr. Wright again singled out the company for building “on a partnership that has made the Commonwealth of Virginia a national leader.”

In both of the releases, Dr. Wright mentioned only Pearson.

Responding by e-mail, a spokesman for Dr. Wright wrote that she “was not involved in either procurement process other than to approve the selections that resulted from each process.”

The spokesman continued, “The procurement processes were carried out in accordance with state law, and Dr. Wright’s participation in the C.C.S.S.O. conference had no bearing on the outcomes.”

Mr. Nieker said that the foundation’s external auditors were “fully confident” that its tax forms complied with regulations covering nonprofit organizations. But Mr. Owens, the former I.R.S. official, said the likelihood was “fairly high” that the foundation was in violation of the federal tax code. He said Pearson could face fines or lose its tax-exempt status.

Janne Gallagher, senior vice president of the Council on Foundations, pointed out that in Pearson’s case, the company controls the foundation’s board of directors. “That makes it very important,” she said, “to be sure they’re not using the foundation to benefit the company improperly.”
391 2011-10-10 When you have a 4-4 fit in a no-trump contract, you will get at most four tricks from the suit. But if that is your trump suit, you will usually get an extra trick by ruffing a loser in one hand or the other. This is why players like 4-4 trump fits. However, methods like Stayman that search for a 4-4 fit suffer from one disadvantage: if a 4-4 fit is not found, the defenders have been given free information about declarer’s hand.

Particularly when overtricks are unimportant, think twice before hunting out a 4-4 fit if your hand has no-trump characteristics.

The diagramed deal is an example. It occurred during the Friday Flight A Swiss Teams at the Long Island Fall Regional in Smithtown, N.Y., in September.

This was won by the husband and wife Stephen Lucas and Lesley Decker Lucas of Woodbury, N.Y.; Robert Gordon of Northport, N.Y.; and Bob Gwirtzman of New York City. They finished with 109 victory points, 25 ahead of Melanie Tucker and John Hurd of New York City, and Joe Grue and John Kranyak of Las Vegas.

After one diamond-two clubs-two no-trump, North’s three-spade rebid was debatable. With such a soft hand having half its points in quacks — queens and jacks — he should have preferred three no-trump.
392 2011-10-10 Presumably some parents of young children, not grasping the concept of parody, have actually been reading Adam Mansbach’s filthy best seller, “Go the ____ to Sleep,” to their progeny at bedtime. Now comes the anti-Mansbach: “Pajanimals,” a puppet television show in an evening time slot that is intended to help the little buggers nod off.

The show, from the Jim Henson Company and Sixteen South Television, is heavy on music and about as cussword-free as you can get. But kids, beware: the opening episode, Monday on Sprout, contains an insidious lie that will do more damage to you than the bleeped-out word in that book title ever could.

“Pajanimals,” a prime-time version of a short-form feature that Sprout introduced in 2008, focuses on four animal puppets that share a room: Sweetpea Sue the pony, Squacky the duck, CowBella the cow and Apollo the puppy. The opening episode involves a blankie crisis: Squacky’s beloved armful of cloth gets some goo spilled on it, and he’s forced to spend the night without it while Mom throws it in the wash.

“It’s O.K., Squacky,” Apollo says. “Blankie will be safe with Mom.”

Ignore for the moment the somewhat disturbing fact that four puppets whose DNA clearly comes from four different animals are calling the same entity “Mom.” Focus instead on Apollo’s words: “Blankie will be safe with Mom.”

Let me here address the toddlers in the readership directly. Children, I can tell you from personal experience that this is a cruel, soul-destroying lie. Blankie will not necessarily be safe with Mom. Sometimes Mom will unilaterally decide that blankie has become too ratty and stained — how can she not understand that the rattiness and the stains are what make it a good blankie? — and will throw it out while you are asleep or at school. Or, worse, she will cut it up and turn the pieces into rags. Just pause and picture that for a minute: your most precious possession, now being used to scrub bathroom mold or clean out the cat’s litter box. Sweet dreams, kid.

Your attempts to complain about this and demand justice will be swatted aside with callous adult indifference. It will be your first realization that life is full of pain and utterly beyond your control. You will grow up cynical and devoid of hope, unable to love or be loved. On your deathbed, you will utter a single dying word: “blankie.” But on the bright side, the movie later made about your life by a precocious young director will be considered the greatest film of all time.

In any case, aside from the blankie thing, “Pajanimals” contains pleasant songs and easy-to-grasp lessons. Whether it helps the little ones go to sleep or just causes them to want to watch more television will probably vary from child to child. So better keep that Mansbach book handy.
393 2011-10-10 But Mr. Winkler implies that gun control advocacy is similarly defined by extremists — by people who would like to “eliminate all privately owned firearms — or, at least, make the United States more like England, where handguns are illegal and all other guns are rare.” And in doing so Mr. Winkler ignores or plays down the many reasonable, centrist arguments made, for instance, by Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, and Mayors Against Illegal Guns, a group led by Michael R. Bloomberg of New York.

Middle-ground, common-sense ideas over the years have included measures like the 1994-2004 federal assault weapons ban; the closing of the so-called gun show loophole (which allows private sellers, who are not federally licensed, to sell guns without having to conduct a background check — sales that reportedly account for about 40 percent of all gun purchases); and fixing gaps in the National Instant Criminal Background Check System regarding individuals with mental illness, drug abuse and domestic violence records.

Much of “Gunfight” focuses on the 2008 Supreme Court case of District of Columbia v. Heller which centered on the district’s firearm regulations. Mr. Winkler uses his expertise as a law professor to deconstruct the court’s 5-4 ruling, which, as he sees it, protected individuals’ right to bear arms, but also indicated that “the justices deemed many forms of gun control to be constitutional.” Mr. Winkler also looks at the implications of this ruling, and situates it within a historical context with earlier landmark cases.

As a broader account of the battle over gun rights and gun control, however, this volume is highly selective and filled with perplexing gaps. Mr. Winkler skims lightly over events like the sieges at Waco, Tex., and Ruby Ridge, Idaho, which fueled the militia movement, and treats the Columbine, Virginia Tech and Tucson massacres in an equally glancing manner. In addition, he does little to illuminate just how the N.R.A. became the potent political force it is today — how its lobbyists have leveraged power inside and outside Washington and how it has also begun to weigh in on other issues like health care, campaign finance and Supreme Court nominees.

Where this book is most interesting and useful is in the sections in which Mr. Winkler examines the early history of gun rights and gun control in the United States. Of the founding fathers, he argues that they “understood that gun rights had to be balanced with public safety needs.” He writes that “they supported forcible disarmament of slaves, free blacks, and people of mixed race out of fear that these groups would use guns to revolt against slave masters.” He says that before the Revolution, “at least one colony, Maryland, passed a law barring Catholics from possessing firearms” and that “other colonial governments prohibited any white person unwilling to affirm his allegiance to the British Crown from collecting firearms.”

As for the N.R.A., Mr. Winkler says it was not always a ferocious opponent of gun control, but “for most of its history” actually “promoted reasonable gun safety laws.” According to “Gunfight,” N.R.A. leaders wrote and lobbied states to enact landmark gun control legislation in the 1920s and ’30s when Prohibition-era gangsters were running circles around state and local police departments, and they “supported enactment of the first significant modern-day gun control laws adopted by Congress, the National Firearms Act of 1934 and the Federal Firearms Act of 1938,” which “taxed certain firearms heavily, required some gun owners to register their weapons, and created a licensing system for dealers sending guns across state lines.”

So what changed the N.R.A.? Mr. Winkler’s account of how a dissident faction staged a coup at its annual meeting in 1977 and turned the group into an increasingly militant organization cannot help but remind the reader of the Tea Party’s efforts today to dictate the agenda of the Republican Party. In the case of N.R.A. hard-liners, they succeeded in pushing the group to the right, riding the wave of conservatism that helped bring Ronald Reagan to the White House. Since then the gun lobby has become even more militant, to the point at which many members not only reflexively oppose any attempt to regulate guns as leading to a “slippery slope to involuntary disarmament,” but also attack those who advocate for gun control, including police chiefs and heads of police officer associations.

Although some gun-rights advocates talk as though gun control were a modern, 20th-century invention of an increasingly meddlesome government, the historical passages in “Gunfight” suggest otherwise. Not only did the nation’s founders balance gun rights with public safety needs, Mr. Winkler says, but the wild, wild west wasn’t all that wild. According to the research of one scholar he cites, almost everyone carried firearms in the untamed wilderness, which was full of dangerous American Indians, outlaws and bears, but in the towns where people lived and businesses operated, there were often “blanket ordinances against the carrying of arms by anyone.” One of the towns with strict rules was the notorious Dodge City, Kan.

Mr. Winkler reads the Supreme Court’s 2008 District of Columbia v. Heller ruling as also performing a balancing act. The decision, he concludes, was what “the gun rights movement long hoped for.” Yet, he adds, “other than the occasional outlier, most gun control laws are not likely to run afoul of the right recognized by the Court.”

“Gun rights won,” he concludes, “but so did gun control.”
394 2011-10-10 Piero Weiss, a former concert pianist and recording artist who turned to musicology, becoming an author and co-author of books in the field, including a widely used textbook, and founding the music history department at the Peabody Conservatory, died on Sunday in Baltimore. He was 83.

The cause was complications of pneumonia, said his son, Antonio.

Coming of age in a generation of pianists that included Gary Graffman, Claude Frank, Jacob Lateiner, Leon Fleisher and Seymour Lipkin, all of whom were lifelong friends, Dr. Weiss performed in Europe and America from the age of 16 into his 30s and recorded works by Schubert, Schumann, Debussy and Ravel. His broadcast performance of Mendelssohn’s First Piano Concerto from Lewisohn Stadium in Manhattan in 1958 was part of the first FM transmission in stereophonic sound.

Mr. Graffman, in his memoir, “I Really Should Be Practicing,” wrote, “Piero’s musicological knowledge was far greater than mine, and covered much more than just piano literature.”

His scholarly bent eventually won out, leading him away from the concert stage and into an academic career. He enrolled at Columbia University, earning a B.A. in 1950 and a Ph.D. in musicology in 1970.

Dr. Weiss was the author of four books, including, with Richard Taruskin, “Music in the Western World: A History in Documents,” an anthology of source readings that has been adopted as a college textbook throughout the United States and Canada.

Dr. Weiss specialized in the history of Italian opera. At his death he was awaiting the publication of his latest book, on 18th-century Italian opera, in Italian, by the Turin publishing house EDT. He also wrote extensively about Schubert.
395 2011-10-10 WEISS--Piero, on October 2, 2011. Dr. Piero Weiss, 83, pianist and professor of music history, survived by Carole Weiss; his children Antonio Weiss and Maria Weiss Leandri, all of New York; his brother Carlo Weiss, of Como, Italy; and grandchildre...
396 2011-10-10 Since January experts at Sotheby's have been trying to privately sell a suite of four bronze sculptures of a woman's back that Matisse created over a period of 23 years beginning in 1908.  The works belong to the Burnett Foundation in Forth Worth,...
397 2011-10-10 Not enough hardware eye candy. That was the undertone of disappointment that surrounded the introduction of Apple's new iPhone on Tuesday.     But look beyond that to something really significant: Siri, the personal assistant application that Appl...
398 2011-10-10 Everyone gets old. Even the clever young men who created Facebook, which is why Facebook is no longer going to be only about who you are now. It will soon allow you to curate, as they say in digi-speak, your past.      What used to be your Faceboo...
399 2011-10-10 Beatles fans now have two reasons to toast to their favorite band each Oct. 9: On what would have been John Lennon's 71st birthday, Sir Paul McCartney married Nancy Shevell in a small civil ceremony on Sunday at Marylebone Town Hall in London, The...
400 2011-10-10 Paula L. Ettelbrick, a leading legal figure in the lesbian and gay civil rights movement who focused on defining ''family'' in the broadest possible way, died on Friday in Manhattan. She was 56 and lived in Manhattan and Yonkers.     The cause was...
401 2011-10-11 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
402 2011-10-11 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
403 2011-10-11 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
404 2011-10-11 Matt Read went straight from college to the Flyers of the N.H.L.--and scored his first goal on Saturday against the Devils....
405 2011-10-11 Matt Read went straight from college to the Flyers of the N.H.L.--and scored his first goal on Saturday against the Devils....
406 2011-10-11 The creators of the Scandic Grand Central hotel plan to bring some much-needed cool to the neighborhood of Norrmalm....
407 2011-10-11 The creators of the Scandic Grand Central hotel plan to bring some much-needed cool to the neighborhood of Norrmalm....
408 2011-10-11 Would the country have been better off with McCain in the White House?...
409 2011-10-11 Would the country have been better off with McCain in the White House?...
410 2011-10-11 An attempt at citizen justice became an actual bout with the law for one self-styled citizen superhero....
411 2011-10-11 Assessing the play of the Rangers, Devils and Islanders in the first week of the N.H.L. season....
412 2011-10-11 Assessing the play of the Rangers, Devils and Islanders in the first week of the N.H.L. season....
413 2011-10-11 One year's revenue versus the stock of debt?...
414 2011-10-11 One year's revenue versus the stock of debt?...
415 2011-10-11 Immelt really doesn't get it....
416 2011-10-11 Immelt really doesn't get it....
417 2011-10-11 At 97, the legendary comic Professor Irwin Corey regularly panhandles near the Queens-Midtown Tunnel for a charity that helps needy Cuban children....
418 2011-10-11 At 97, the legendary comic Professor Irwin Corey regularly panhandles near the Queens-Midtown Tunnel for a charity that helps needy Cuban children....
419 2011-10-11 On Oct. 11, 1968, Apollo 7 was launched from Cape Kennedy, Fla., with astronauts Wally Schirra, Donn Fulton Eisele and R. Walter Cunningham aboard, beginning an 11-day mission in Earth orbit....
420 2011-10-11 On Oct. 11, 1968, Apollo 7 was launched from Cape Kennedy, Fla., with astronauts Wally Schirra, Donn Fulton Eisele and R. Walter Cunningham aboard, beginning an 11-day mission in Earth orbit....
421 2011-10-11 And if, as some Council members propose, the city requires employers in projects that receive deep public subsidies to pay at least $10 an hour, plus benefits (or $11.50 with no benefits), might not some developers close their checkbooks rather than build?

Should policy be held hostage to tales of misery?

The mayor’s take is not subtle. Mention the living wage and he talks as if he’s just received a report that Bolsheviks have made a move on the Bronx.

Across the City Hall rotunda, the Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, offers a more nimble take. But her past as a left-wing activist and her mayoral ambitions as a centrist liberal are caught in a spider’s web on this one.

Ms. Quinn could render the proposal comatose. A year ago her members tried to push through a living wage in the Bronx and to mandate a few sick days for workers. She ensured each effort ended up baled, tied and set by the BQE for early sanitation pickup.

But the Occupy Wall Street crowd, dismissed early on as manifesto-less urchins, have fired the popular imagination. Labor unions march through the streets. Attention turns to the canyon separating the city’s rich and poor.

Unionists, black ministers and Working Families Party activists threaten mayhem in the 2013 election if Ms. Quinn does not bend.

Ms. Quinn does indignant well; she insists no whiff of politics will influence her. She also notes, reasonably, that the previous living wage proposal was far too vague.

“Obviously there is an attempt to narrow the bill, and that is to balance the two sides of the coin,” she says. “We are trying to keep people working in decent jobs. I appreciate everyone’s attempts to balance these goals.”

The speaker’s appreciation most likely is tempered by her fervent desire to see this issue disappear altogether.

The mayor is hard to figure. Over the summer he personally seeded a multimillion-dollar initiative to help impoverished black and Latino men. His studies illuminate that millions of the poor (30 percent of city children live in poverty) work, and yet cannot crawl above the poverty line.

Cities from Boston to Los Angeles have employed the living wage on a fairly broad scale. (The Council proposal is a penny tossed in a municipal sea, most likely affecting a few thousand workers.)

A year ago, the mayor, who can be promiscuous with consultant dollars, paid $1 million to Charles River Associates to study living-wage proposals. Aides promised no foregone conclusions.

That beggared belief. The two principal researchers for Charles River were longtime opponents not just of the living wage, but also of the minimum wage itself. The shock was not mortal when they concluded a living wage would be a poisoned chalice.

I called Peter Dreier, who once was a deputy mayor in Boston, where he molded a living wage still in effect. “It is not going to kill New York’s golden goose,” he said. “It is not even going to ruffle the goose’s feathers.”

This debate holds no fascination for the mayor. “The last time people tried to set rates basically was in the Soviet Union, and that didn’t work out very well,” he said last week.

I tried out the mayor’s reasoning on Ms. Ortiz, who dropped her class at Lehman College because of a lack of money. When I got to the Soviet Union, she looked at me as if I had sucked on a crack pipe.

“He compared a wage I can survive on to the Soviet Union?” she said. “That’s ridiculous.”
422 2011-10-11 The path is now well trodden by others who have had a brush with the arbiters of airplane decorum.

“Whether it’s a letter to a company or a social media issue, people have agendas they push through for a lot of different reasons,” John McDonald, vice president for communications for US Airways, said in an interview.

Mr. McDonald said that was the case after US Airways removed a University of New Mexico football player, Deshon Marman, in June, after he refused to pull up his drooping pajama pants. Video of the exchange was posted on You Tube, prompting a demonstration in San Francisco contending that the airline’s action was racially biased.

Publicity over the Marmon case prompted another US Airways passenger, Jill Tarlow, to step forward with her own allegation. Ms. Tarlow said six days before Mr. Marman was removed, she was on a US Airways flight with a man who was dressed in women’s underwear, stockings and a see-through shrug. Ms. Tarlow sent a photo of the man to the airline and posted it on the Internet.

Mr. McDonald responded that the man was a frequent traveler on US Airways but said he was not allowed to board the flight until he covered up.

Frustration with the seeming arbitrariness of airline decision-making is just one part of the problem, said Pamela Rutledge, director of the Media Psychology Research Center in California. The other is diminishing respect for the sensitivities of other passengers. “Social media is shining a light on a problem that’s growing and that we haven’t been paying enough attention to,” Ms. Rutledge said. “We as a people have taken to this idea of ‘what I’m entitled to’ without considering how to respect what the other person is entitled to.”

Many airlines have found themselves in the spotlight for taking passengers off airplanes, but Southwest Airlines has removed some celebrities, which keeps it in the news. In addition to the short-skirt affair, which resulted in Ms. Ebbert’s appearance in Playboy, the carrier ejected the actress Leisha Hailey last month after a request by a flight attendant for her to stop kissing her girlfriend turned into a profanity-laced exchange. Southwest is known as well for requiring plus-size passengers, like the Hollywood director Kevin Smith, to either buy a second ticket or get off the plane.

“One of the complaints we see on a regular basis is from customers who do not have access to their full seat because of the size of the customer next to them,” said Chris Mainz, a spokesman for Southwest.

That the war over conflicting standards of courtesy and behavior is being fought on airliners isn’t surprising, Ms. Rutledge said, because people feel a powerlessness boarding an airplane. “The airplane environment is one where people have higher anxiety levels, and prickliness is heightened,” she said.

Airline executives agree. “With security and everything else,” Mr. McDonald said, “being on an airplane is very different than hopping in a car or taking a bus.”

Mr. Mainz of Southwest said: “Unlike a restaurant or movie theater, you cannot exit an airplane at 30,000 feet, so it is our duty to defuse a potential disruption before an airplane leaves the ground.”

With that in mind, the courts have given flight crews wide latitude, even when a review suggests the airline employees erred in removing a passenger.

“If you’re going to push the limits, you’re going to run the risk of being denied travel, because it’s all up to the cabin crew or the gate agents,” said Peter A. McLauchlan, a partner with the transportation law firm Gardere Wynne Sewell. “They have a nice laundry list of what could be offensive to other passengers, and airline safety gives them lots of cover.”
423 2011-10-11 WARSAW — On the eve of a vote in Parliament, Slovakia’s prime minister threatened on Monday to resign if her governing coalition did not pass the expansion of the euro currency zone’s bailout fund.

As the deadline approached, Prime Minister Iveta Radicova told lawmakers in Bratislava in a closed negotiating session for the governing parties that she would either tie the decision on the bailout fund to a confidence vote or bring the matter to a simple vote and resign if it did not pass, a government official said.

The vote on expanding the size of the fund, known as the European Financial Stability Facility, and its powers is scheduled for Tuesday. The free-market Freedom and Solidarity Party, one of the four parties in the coalition, has refused to back it, prompting a political crisis that could bring down the government.

The coalition parties will meet one final time on Tuesday morning, before the afternoon session of Parliament, to try to reach a compromise. “The decision will be made tomorrow morning,” said the government official, speaking on the condition of anonymity about private negotiations. A confidence vote would explicitly tie the fate of the government to the fate of the bailout, putting additional pressure on holdouts to concede.

Politicians in capitals across Europe are closely watching the developments in Bratislava. An agreement to expand the fund was reached in July by the leaders of the 17 countries that use the euro. All of the countries need to approve the accord for the changes to take effect. Malta approved the plan on Monday, leaving Slovakia as the last of the 17 nations to take up the accord for formal consideration.

The resistance in Slovakia is the most significant hurdle standing in the way of the deal. The possibility that Slovakia, a small former Communist country with a population of 5.5 million, could scuttle an agreement endorsed and passed by European powers like Germany, France and Italy had seemed inconceivable.
424 2011-10-11 “One of the things depressing the share prices is that the existing public shareholders worry that they’re going to get diluted,” said Nicholas R. Lardy, a senior fellow at the Peter G. Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington.

According to filings the four banks made with the Hong Kong stock exchange, the share purchases on Monday were made by Central Huijin, a holding company that is part of the country’s sovereign wealth fund, the China Investment Corporation. Central Huijin has a tangled history that has complicated China’s ability to regulate its banks.

Central Huijin already owns stakes in the banks that range from 35.4 percent of Industrial and Commercial Bank to 67.6 percent of the Bank of China. The purchases Monday will not alter these percentages significantly.

The central bank set up Central Huijin in 2003 to bail out the country’s banks after a surge in losses on loans issued to politically connected, state-owned enterprises in the mid-1990s.

Central Huijin was transferred in 2007 to the China Investment Corporation, which had been set up to invest part of the country’s foreign exchange reserves in the stock market. The move was controversial, in part because it involved issuance of bonds to compensate the central bank for the transfer. China Investment promised that it would collect enough dividends from the banks to make payments on the bonds.

As a result of that promise, the big Chinese banks have been paying out roughly half of their earnings in dividends since then, compared with only 10 to 12 percent for many industrial companies. That has slowed the banks’ ability to comply with regulators’ demands to build capital reserves.

The high dividend payouts, in conflict with the need to raise capital, have started to prompt grumbling by Chinese bank executives. Xiang Junbo, the chairman of the Agricultural Bank of China, was quoted in July by The Study Times, a weekly publication controlled by the Communist Party School, as saying that the country’s big banks “should avoid high levels of dividend payments while we are frequently going to the market for fund-raising exercises.”

But Lou Jiwei, the chairman of the China Investment Corporation, has said that Central Huijin needs 300 million renminbi a day, or $47 million, just to pay the interest on the bonds issued to compensate the central bank. Central Huijin cannot easily sell its shares in the banks to raise money for servicing that debt, because this would increase the number of shares in public circulation and could further depress the stock prices.

The announcements by the big four banks reversed a slide in their share prices earlier in the day. They posted small gains by the close, except for China Construction Bank; it fell 0.21 percent on the day, closing at 4.83 Hong Kong dollars, but was up from earlier lows.

Another worry for the banks lies in their exposure to special borrowing units of local governments. China’s National Audit Office said at the end of June that those loans — mainly for infrastructure projects that helped China spend its way out of the global economic downturn — had totaled 10.7 trillion renminbi, or $1.7 trillion, by the end of 2010.

The debt burden from those loans is putting heavy pressure on local governments to raise the fees for water, sewage and other municipal services that were greatly improved with the loans, but which continue to be provided to the public for less than their cost, Mr. Lardy, of the Peterson Institute, said.
425 2011-10-11 Tomato sauce and a tangy layer on top round out this earthy dish....
426 2011-10-11 The stress of living in a neonatal intensive care unit results in decreased brain size and abnormal neurological findings for very preterm babies, a small study suggests, and the more the stress, the greater the effect.

Scientists at Washington University in St. Louis studied 44 infants born before 30 weeks of gestation. The researchers recorded the number of stressors the babies underwent, using a list of 36 procedures of varying invasiveness, from diaper changes to the insertion of intravenous lines.

When the babies reached term-equivalent age, 36 to 44 weeks, they underwent M.R.I.’s and behavioral tests. The study was published online last week in The Annals of Neurology.

After controlling for immaturity at birth and severity of illness, a higher score on the stress scale was associated with reduced brain size and poorer results on the examinations. There was no relation between number of stressors and brain injury.

“We have to move away from a focus on just pain medications and acute medical interventions toward a more developmental approach,” said the study’s senior author, Dr. Terrie Inder, a professor of pediatrics. These babies, she added, “need the opportunity to rest, recover, be nurtured and be able to grow.”
427 2011-10-11 A review of studies suggests that young and middle-aged people with slightly elevated blood pressure, or prehypertension, are nonetheless at much greater risk for stroke than those in the normal range.

The National Institutes of Health define prehypertension as a systolic pressure (the top number) of 120 to 139 millimeters of mercury or a diastolic pressure (the bottom number) of 80 to 89 millimeters of mercury. Readings greater than or equal to 140/90 are considered hypertension.

Scientists at the University of California, San Diego, reviewed 12 prospective cohort studies of prehypertension and stroke incidence covering more than 500,000 participants with follow-up periods as long as 32 years. The report appeared last week in the journal Neurology.

The researchers found that people under age 65 with prehypertension had a 68 percent increased risk of stroke compared with those with normal readings, independent of other risk factors. There was no increased risk among people over age 65.

Dr. Bruce Ovbiagele, lead author of the study and a professor of neurosciences at U.C.S.D., said this does not mean that people with prehypertension should start taking anti-hypertensive drugs.

Instead, he said, they should “modify their lifestyle, maintain an ideal weight, lower their sodium intake. You shouldn’t be deceived because nothing seems to be going on.”
428 2011-10-11 City Center has spent $57 million of a $75 million capital campaign in the hope that people will now notice it. A new glass marquee (with heat lamps) shines lights on the exterior as well as on the sidewalk. Protruding signs are now visible from both Avenue of the Americas and Seventh Avenue. And new glass doors allow passers-by to look into the building at six large high-definition plasma screens.

The New Museum is acting as curator for three installations for those monitors in the first year, beginning with a series of video works by Rashaad Newsome, a New York artist.

City Center was not originally meant to be a theater. It was built in 1923 as a meeting hall for the Ancient Arabic Order of the Nobles of the Mystic Shrine, or Shriners, and did not become City Center until 20 years later. At the opening, on Dec. 11, 1943, Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia conducted the New York Philharmonic in the national anthem. In an evocation of that moment, the center’s reopening gala on Oct. 25 features Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg as a guest conductor.

The renovation project, designed by Ennead Architects — formerly Polshek Partnership — aims to make the theater feel more contemporary and welcoming. The lobby and patrons’ lounge have been expanded. Restroom capacity has increased by 50 percent.

But the project also deliberately returns the theater to some of its former decorative glory. The painted ceiling on the mezzanine lobby has been restored, as have that level’s desert-scene murals. The original light fixtures have been refurbished and cleaned.

“We wanted to renovate this theater, we wanted to bring it into the 21st century,” said Duncan Hazard, the Ennead partner in charge of the project, “but we very much wanted it to be the City Center everyone has loved for many, many years.”

When the city took over the hall, in 1943, its multicolored interior was painted white for easier maintenance. So the renovating architects did some paint archaeology to investigate the original colors and bring them back. “One of the joys of a job like this is the discovery process,” Mr. Hazard said.

In some cases, the architects had to tone down the color scheme; the gilt walls that flank the stage, for example, were too reflective for modern lighting requirements.

The stage was originally built to focus attention on the Shriners in the middle. “It was a little like watching a television screen,” Mr. Hazard said. “It was that far away.”

To improve sight lines, the architects increased the slope of the seating platforms and removed six rows of less desirable seats, reducing the total to 2,255, from 2,750. The new seats are about two inches wider, and the auditorium’s formerly threadbare red upholstery has been replaced by blue-green velour.

In conjunction with its reopening season, City Center has also planned some new programming, including fellowships that will provide three choreographers at critical stages of their careers with a one-year home at City Center. The first recipients are Emery LeCrone, a young ballet choreographer; Andrea Miller, the artistic director of the New York troupe Gallim Dance; and Shen Wei, the artistic director of the 10-year-old company Shen Wei Dance Arts.

The fellowship recipients will each get a $10,000 stipend, rehearsal space and a performance opportunity at City Center. They will also have access to the organization’s administrative expertise in fund-raising, finance, technology and marketing.

Last month Alvin Ailey, long a fixture there, announced its first multiyear agreement with City Center, a 10-year, nonexclusive contract that names the company as the hall’s principal dance company.

But for the most part, business at City Center will remain as usual. The theater’s operating budget — currently about $18 million — will not increase with the renovation, Ms. Shuler said. The complex, which includes two smaller theaters, four studios and a 12-story office tower in addition to the main stage, will continue to be home to Manhattan Theater Club, as well as Alvin Ailey. The theater’s mosaic walls and arabesque ceilings will remain.

“We didn’t want people to walk in and say, ‘Oh my gosh, look what happened to City Center,’ ” Ms. Shuler said. “We want them to come in and say, ‘Wow, look at City Center now.”
429 2011-10-11 7:19 p.m. | Updated      The New Coke experiment lasted less than three months. Qwikster did not even make it make it out of the bottle....
430 2011-10-11 Wall Street banks often boast that they hire the best and the brightest. Now, scrambling to bolster profits, they have become full-time headhunters for some of their biggest hedge fund clients, a role that is rife with potential conflicts.     Big...
431 2011-10-12 Credit: Jeff Haller for The New York Times
432 2011-10-12 T-Mobile is gently thumbing its nose at Apple's star product by introducing two new smartphones....
433 2011-10-12 T-Mobile is gently thumbing its nose at Apple's star product by introducing two new smartphones....
434 2011-10-12 About 400 protesters, including City Council members, crossed the Brooklyn Bridge to object to conduct by officers they consider racial profiling against black and Latino young people....
435 2011-10-12 About 400 protesters, including City Council members, crossed the Brooklyn Bridge to object to conduct by officers they consider racial profiling against black and Latino young people....
436 2011-10-12 Senator Jim DeMint left a closed-door Republican meeting as both parties considered how to move ahead with jobs legislation....
437 2011-10-12 Senator Jim DeMint left a closed-door Republican meeting as both parties considered how to move ahead with jobs legislation....
438 2011-10-12 Republicans are months away from voting, but the Obama campaign already is trying to define Mitt Romney as a shape-shifter....
439 2011-10-12 Republicans are months away from voting, but the Obama campaign already is trying to define Mitt Romney as a shape-shifter....
440 2011-10-12 A political scientist urges voters to be skeptical of claims that certain kinds of political advertisements, whether positive or negative, "work."...
441 2011-10-12 A political scientist urges voters to be skeptical of claims that certain kinds of political advertisements, whether positive or negative, "work."...
442 2011-10-12 Occupy Wall Street is again taking aim at JPMorgan Chase's chief executive. One problem, though -- their demonstration isn't taking place outside his office....
443 2011-10-12 Occupy Wall Street is again taking aim at JPMorgan Chase's chief executive. One problem, though -- their demonstration isn't taking place outside his office....
444 2011-10-12 A new poll suggests that women are more likely than men to oppose almost all kinds of new development in their communities....
445 2011-10-12 A new poll suggests that women are more likely than men to oppose almost all kinds of new development in their communities....
446 2011-10-12 The number of people quitting their jobs in August also rose, which could be a good sign for the economy....
447 2011-10-12 The number of people quitting their jobs in August also rose, which could be a good sign for the economy....
448 2011-10-12 The women’s apparel maker will sell off its Liz Claiborne, Monet and Kensie brands to help pay down debt....
449 2011-10-12 The women's apparel maker announced the sale of its namesake brand, Monet and Kensie, which along with other recent deals will garner $328 million to help pay down debt....
450 2011-10-12 A report from the Joint Economic Committee of Congress finds that the American workers most likely to be hurt by free-trade agreements are also those likeliest to have a hard time finding new jobs....
451 2011-10-12 A report from the Joint Economic Committee of Congress finds that the American workers most likely to be hurt by free-trade agreements are also those likeliest to have a hard time finding new jobs....
452 2011-10-12 Even businesses that are growing are not necessarily hiring, an economist writes....
453 2011-10-12 Even businesses that are growing are not necessarily hiring, an economist writes....
454 2011-10-12 Sugar with your coffee? An international photography project examines how some everyday items exact an unseen toll half a world away....
455 2011-10-12 Sugar with your coffee? An international photography project examines how some everyday items exact an unseen toll half a world away....
456 2011-10-12 But to the lawyers for Mr. Layne and four co-defendants, the group, while perhaps selling drugs, was anything but a structured trafficking enterprise.

The trial began three weeks ago and is expected to go to the jury on Wednesday.

The defendants, portrayed by prosecutors as gang leaders, are Mr. Layne, 21; his brother Jahlyl, 18; Mr. Brown, 20, who is a cousin; Mr. Mohammed, 31; and Jonathan Hernandez, 19. Jahlyl Layne is charged with second-degree conspiracy. The other four are charged with first-degree conspiracy, which carries a maximum sentence of life in prison.

The prosecutors, who must prove that the defendants agreed to commit a crime and took steps to do so, are using the recorded telephone conversations to illustrate what they say is the behind-the-scenes planning and structuring of a drug organization.

Conspiracy charges are generally difficult to prove, legal experts said, but they offer prosecutors a great reward: they can bring down multiple defendants at once and wipe out entire pockets of crime.

Karen Friedman Agnifilo, chief of the trial division in the Manhattan district attorney’s office, speaking generally about gangs and not about the case currently on trial, said, “They might not be as structured or organized, but they’re not less violent.” She added, “We’re focusing on violence.”

She said Cyrus R. Vance Jr., the Manhattan district attorney, emphasized a holistic approach in which the office not only prosecuted violent groups, but also promoted community-building activities to help keep young people away from crime.

Law enforcement authorities said that modern-day gangs in New York City shared several characteristics: members tend to be young, under 20; they are territorial, attaching themselves to a specific block or housing project; they are well armed and instantly violent. Some gangs simply exist to fight other gangs, while others are centered on crimes like gun trafficking.

In the 137th Street case, prosecutors said, Jaquan Layne was the ringleader of a gang tied together by a drug operation. But where prosecutors hear strategy and planning in telephone conversations, Mr. Layne’s lawyer, Franklin Rothman, hears a young man who likes to boast.

“They have nothing on Jaquan Layne other than his big, stupid mouth that got him in trouble,” Mr. Rothman said in his opening statement. “He’s not part of a conspiracy. He’s not part of this gang. He’s a guy from the block.”

In one call, Jahlyl Layne seemed intent on collecting on a debt, even though he was in jail.

“You know them fiends still owe me that money, too,” he told the man on the other end of the phone. “Go get that money, B.”

“I’m gonna go knock on that door for you,” the man responded. “I got you.”

Prosecutors said some of the calls also described the group’s violence and the passing of weapons. Pierce Gross, who is not on trial but was one of the people charged with the 137th Street group, told someone in a recorded call that “Jon snapped,” meaning he had fired a gun.

Mr. Gross was speaking of an episode, prosecutors said, in which Mr. Hernandez fired several shots at someone, leading to an attempted-murder charge being prosecuted in the trial.

Some of the phone calls displayed internal strife, prosecutors said. In one call, Jahlyl Layne told Louis Williams, who prosecutors said was in the gang, that someone was “gonna kill” him and others in the group who were still on the streets because, he said, using a term for money, they “ain’t setting no chicken out” to those who were in jail. They were “due a spanking,” Mr. Layne said.

Mr. Williams called Mr. Layne’s bluff, saying they were not “gonna kill nobody.”

In another call, Jaquan Layne appeared to complain that Mr. Brown and another man were still selling drugs but not putting any of the money in his commissary account at Rikers. They “ain’t sending me no paper,” Mr. Layne told Afrika Owes, a former private-school student who was also charged in the case but pleaded guilty to lesser charges.

Mr. Rothman, his lawyer, has said that that answer indicated an every-man-for-himself attitude, rather than some structured drug organization with people working together.

Yet in another call, Mr. Layne appeared to be instructing Ms. Owes on how to take care of herself. After she explained that she was carrying guns, Mr. Layne told her that if things got crazy, she should use them — “let it go, let it go.”
457 2011-10-12 “Why would Mr. Dubin abandon his dog like that?” Wayne Curry, the owner of Kraftwerk K9, said on Tuesday in a telephone interview. “The dog belonged to him. We had a purchase agreement that stated he had 72 hours to return the dog if he was unsatisfied, and that time period had elapsed.”

Mr. Dubin, who ordered and paid for Emmi on Oct. 1, said that he had indeed contacted Mr. Curry and a member of his staff within the allotted 72 hours, complaining to both of them that Emmi, who was born and raised in Germany, was not responding to German commands like “sitz” (sit), “fuss” (heel) and “aus” (let go). Even worse, Mr. Dubin said, Emmi was terrorizing his pet cat, had twice tried to bite his 8-year-old son and had bitten another dog on the face.

“I spoke to someone else there and waited for Mr. Curry to call me back, but he never did,” Mr. Dubin said. “They just waited me out until the return period expired.”

When told of that accusation, Mr. Curry responded: “That’s not even near correct. Mr. Dubin called us the day after he received Emmi and told us that she wasn’t getting along with his cat, but never said anything about wanting to return her to us. It wasn’t until Saturday, Oct. 8, that he expressed a desire, via e-mail, to return Emmi, and by that time, he was already too late.”

The following day, Mr. Curry received an e-mail from a Continental official telling him that Mr. Dubin had booked Emmi on a Monday flight to Seattle. But Mr. Curry refused delivery, saying there would be no one at the airport to pick the dog up. A short time later, Mr. Curry said, Continental followed with an e-mail confirming cancellation of the booking for Emmi. But unbeknown to Mr. Curry, Mr. Dubin rebooked Emmi’s transportation and somehow persuaded Continental officials to ship Emmi the roughly 3,000 miles.

A spokeswoman for Continental said: “We followed all standard procedures, and the animal arrived at its destination safely. We were in accordance with the U.S. Animal Welfare Act, which gives us a four-hour period to wait for a recipient to arrive at the airport before sending an animal to a shelter.”

Mr. Dubin, whose payment for Emmi is being disputed with his credit card company, said that more than a half-hour after leaving her at the airport, he received a call from a Continental official at the company’s headquarters in Houston telling him that Mr. Curry had informed the airline that he would not be meeting Emmi at the plane, which had already taken off and was to stop in Houston before proceeding to Seattle.

“She was already gone,” Mr. Dubin said. “By that time, it was too late for me to do anything about it.”

Eventually, Mr. Curry was told by Continental that Emmi had spent Monday night at the Airpet Hotel in Seattle. He sent a staff member to pick her up, and paid a $115 boarding fee before returning her to his kennel.

Mr. Curry, holding firm to his company’s return-date policy, sent a terse e-mail to Mr. Dubin and his wife, Susan, on Tuesday: “We are picking up Emmi since you clearly abandoned her. Per the purchase agreement no monies are due.”

Despite their differences, both Mr. Dubin and Mr. Curry agreed that Emmi’s safe return was what mattered most in the end.

“I’m glad he picked her up,” Mr. Dubin said. “I was worried that Emmi might be destroyed in a shelter somewhere if no one claimed her. That’s not what I wanted.”
458 2011-10-12 Alcoa, the aluminum producer, said slowing economic growth sent prices for the metal lower, hurting its third-quarter profit.

Alcoa’s chief executive, Klaus Kleinfeld, warned of weak economic conditions through the year, particularly in Europe, “as confidence in the global recovery faded.”

That sapped aluminum demand from the automotive, industrial products, construction and packaging sectors since the second quarter, with only the aerospace and transport sectors growing.

The third-quarter profit jumped from a year ago, but was lower than the second quarter and fell short of Wall Street expectations, which had already been lowered because of a slump in global metal prices.

Alcoa’s chief financial officer, Chuck McLane, said in a conference call that worries about Europe’s debt crisis prompted customers there to reduce orders sharply, even into September.
459 2011-10-12 “My father used to tell me, ‘You are never going to win the public over, and the sooner you realize it, the better off you are,’ “ said Marc Fleisher, son of Larry, who was the N.B.A.’s first major union power broker in the 1960s. “He used to say, ‘This is about one thing, and that thing is leverage.’ “

Marc Fleisher, a longtime agent whose business is based primarily in Europe, was on the telephone to say that he had just heard Charles Barkley assert on television that the players don’t stand a chance in a protracted standoff because they have no leverage.

“And that’s sad because they should,” Fleisher said.

But it was too late for the implied magic bullet of union decertification to save the season’s first 100 games and perhaps many more from disappearing like the championship rings that were supposed to adorn the fingers of Wade and his two best buddies in Miami last spring.

It was too late for a more proactive strategy that might have allowed the players to avoid the financial trap press of no paycheck.

Billy Hunter, the union director, said Monday night that he had been preparing the players for this showdown for two and a half years because Stern and the owners made it clear they were coming for their necks. Prepared? How? By bending over onto the negotiating guillotine?

Once upon a time, N.B.A. players understood that to get a fair shake, stands and risks had to be taken. When the owners chuckled at a demand for a fair pension plan, players united behind Larry Fleisher and threatened to boycott the 1964 All-Star Game in Boston, which was primed for a rare national television audience.

As they huddled in the locker room, a message came from one of the owners, the Los Angeles Lakers’ Bob Short, foretelling the apocalypse. Elgin Baylor, one of Short’s stars, told him where he could go, and the players, not coincidently, got their pension.

If it sounds unrealistic to suggest that the modern player might have considered striking first — or at least threatening one before last spring’s playoffs — that is only because the tactic has become virtually anathema, which is a mighty curious weapon for a union to concede.

While on the phone, Fleisher looked up the language in the expired collective bargaining agreement on Pages 264-265 that prohibited players from impeding N.B.A. operations. But supposing the players had gone ahead and walked out on the eve of the playoffs after they’d all been paid their regular-season hauls?

Fleisher guessed they would have opened themselves and their individual contracts up to a court action. Or maybe the owners — petrified at the thought of their profit season being flushed — might have agreed to a no-lockout pledge for the start of this season. Who knows? But sometimes, risk begets reward.

Isiah Thomas, a former union president, said the players of his generation prided themselves on not missing paychecks because it was understood that a league shutdown would inevitably be to nobody’s benefit.

“Back then, the players and the owners had a common good, and that was to make the game better,” Thomas said Tuesday in a telephone interview. “And as a union, we made sure it was between us and the owners and that we kept the agents out of the process.”

Say what you will about Thomas the basketball executive, but he was a creative union leader, drastically reducing the agents’ cuts and fighting off them and his fellow superstars to divert money into the pension plan.

The problem now, Thomas said, is that small-market owners have created a win-at-all-costs climate, the likes of which the players have never encountered. Their only chance of avoiding crushing defeat is to not let the agents divide them into the class warfare that accompanied the end of the 1998-99 lockout.

A temporary solution — if not their salvation — may yet be to work abroad. Fleisher said he might have spoken too soon when he predicted two months ago that few players would be offered jobs in Europe. “Teams are expressing interest,” he said. “I think you may see a lot of players soon going over.”

The jobs won’t pay anything close to N.B.A. money, and many will be in places that don’t look like Miami. But if enough players are willing to stand up and sacrifice, if they act like grown men in a boardroom and not children confined to their bedrooms, leverage may yet be found on the other side of pro basketball’s abyss.
460 2011-10-12 You might want to call to the attention of your more number-conscious readers that the Tuesday (10/11/11) issue of The Times is No. 55,555.

It took some 30 years since your 44,444th issue to reach that number, and it will take another 30 to get to No. 66,666.
461 2011-10-12 The new standards and the creation of the oversight council stem from the Dodd-Frank regulatory act, which, in response to the financial crisis, expanded the ability of financial regulators to oversee big companies that could prove to be a threat to the financial system. The council comprises the heads of the major regulatory agencies and other financial industry representatives.

Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary and chairman of the council, said the ability to designate so-called nonbank financial companies for heightened supervision was “one of the most important things that the Dodd-Frank Act did.”

“The United States in the decades before the crisis allowed a large amount of risk to build up in a wide variety of institutions outside the formal banking system,” Mr. Geithner said. “When the storm hit,” he said, “that put enormous pressure on that parallel financial system, causing a lot of tension and trauma across financial markets, amplifying the pressure on the formal banking system and adding to the broader damage to the economy as a whole.”

Several of the large financial companies that posed the biggest threats during the financial crisis — like Lehman Brothers, Bear Stearns and A.I.G. — were not supervised by a single agency charged with monitoring their financial stability.

Those companies would most likely fall under the newly proposed rules. In addition to applying only to financial companies holding at least $50 billion in assets, the rules would require companies to also meet one of several other characteristics.

These would include having $20 billion in debt, $3.5 billion in derivative liabilities, a 15-to-1 leverage ratio of total assets to total equity, short-term debt measuring 10 percent of total assets or credit-default swaps written against the company with at least $30 billion in notional value.

Companies that meet those standards will then go through another evaluation, where the council will analyze a broad range of industry-specific measures to determine whether significant financial distress at the company could pose a threat to the country’s overall financial stability.

If a company passes the first two hurdles, it would then be considered for heightened regulation and be given a chance to rebut the assertions. Finally, two-thirds of the oversight council, including its chairman, must vote to designate the company as systemically important, a finding that must be renewed annually.

Some insurance trade groups, which have lobbied aggressively against having their members subject to more stringent federal oversight, made the case again on Tuesday that they did not threaten the financial system.

“Property casualty insurers are not highly leveraged or interconnected and have a fundamentally different business model than banks, a fact that warrants different regulatory treatment,” said Ben McKay, a lobbyist for the Property Casualty Insurers Association, a group that counts giants like Ameriprise, Liberty Mutual and Geico as members.

Treasury Department officials, who briefed news reporters on the condition of anonymity after the council’s meeting, said the council would be particularly interested in comments on how to treat asset managers who invested money on behalf of others. The comment period will last 60 days.

BlackRock, for example, manages roughly $3.5 trillion for institutional and individual clients. But in a letter filed in February with regulators, it argued that, as an asset manager, it did not own those assets. They are not on its balance sheet, and the company does not employ significant leverage that magnifies the risk of its investments.

The Treasury Department officials said a decision about whether or not companies fell under its proposed rules would be made on a case-by-case basis.

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the council to assess 10 considerations when evaluating a nonbank financial company, and the proposed rule anticipates grouping those into six categories.

Three of those are meant to assess the potential impact of a company’s financial trouble on the broad economy. They are size; substitutability, or the degree to which other companies could provide the same service if a firm left the market; and interconnectedness, or linkages that might magnify a company’s financial distress and cause that distress to spread through the financial system.

The other three categories seek to measure the vulnerability of a company to financial distress: leverage, or level of borrowing; liquidity risk and maturity mismatch, or its ability to meet short-term cash needs; and existing regulatory scrutiny.
462 2011-10-12 Kristy and Coulter Lewis were dissatisfied with the ingredients and additives in microwave popcorn. Quinn Popcorn, named for their baby son, uses organic ingredients and a simple food-grade parchment paper bag instead of a pouch treated with compounds like perfluoro-octanoic and metals to keep the bag from absorbing grease and increase the amount of corn that pops. You add Quinn Popcorn’s oil and seasoning mixture after the corn is popped, so grease-proofing the bag is not an issue. And if a few kernels may be duds, what pops is delicious.

Quinn Popcorn, quinnpopcorn.com, comes in lemon and sea salt, Parmesan and rosemary, and Vermont maple and sea salt, with two batches in each box. It is sold on amazon.com, three boxes, mixed or all of one flavor, $14.79. Hickorees Hard Goods, 109 South Sixth Street (Bedford Avenue), Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (347) 294-0005, hickorees.com, has it for $4.99 a box. Abe’s Market, abesmarket.com, three boxes for $14.79. It is also available at Whole Foods in the Boston area.
463 2011-10-12 Plenty is a new bakery, but it’s a throwback to a time when places with homey cakes and pastries tempted many neighborhoods. The owner, Jessica Weiss, pictured, speaks lovingly about the crumb cake, rugelach and such that her father and grandmother baked. She grew up baking on Long Island, in the Five Towns, but until recently ran and owned a tutoring company for standardized tests. She did some catering jobs before opening Plenty, which has a few tables and also serves soups, salads and sandwiches. Gradually, the inventory will expand with black-and-white cookies and more layer cakes.

Plenty, 1457 Third Avenue (82nd Street), (212) 628-2110. Cookies are $2.50 each, rugelach is $1.50, crumb cake is $3, Danish is $3.50, and whole cakes, including carrot, chocolate, cheesecake and red velvet, are $35 to $45, or $4.50 a slice.
464 2011-10-12 The future of Missouri’s athletic program remains the biggest mystery in college sports, though a conference call Tuesday morning provided some clarity. The Big 12’s interim commissioner, Chuck Neinas, said Missouri would play in the league for the 2012-13 season, giving the university time to decide whether to stay in the league or attempt to join the Southeastern Conference.

“By the end of the academic year, there’ll have to be some kind of decision made,” Neinas said.

From the Big East to leagues like the Atlantic 10 and the Colonial Athletic Association, everyone in college athletics is curious what Missouri will do.

Neinas said that the only decision that appeared to be settled about the potential size of the Big 12 was that it would not remain a nine-team league if Missouri left. He said that it was difficult to gauge whether to remain at 10 teams if Missouri stayed or expand to 12 teams until Missouri left for the SEC.

“From a realistic standpoint, I don’t think you can evaluate whether you want 10 or 12 until Missouri gives us an indication to their preference,” he said.
465 2011-10-12 Mr. Netanyahu, whose cabinet voted 26 to 3 in favor of the prisoner swap, said he felt it important to move on the deal now, given what he called the “storms” in the Middle East.

“With everything that is happening in Egypt and the region, I don’t know if the future would have allowed us to get a better deal — or any deal at all for that matter,” he said. “This is a window of opportunity that might have been missed.”

An Israeli official said on Tuesday that Israel had sent a letter of apology to Egypt for the deaths of several of its troops by Israeli forces chasing Palestinian militants into Sinai in August.

Many aspects of the agreement were not revealed, including the names of important Palestinian prisoners expected to be released. But Israeli journalists said after an intelligence briefing that , a top leader of the group sentenced to five life terms and seen as a possible successor to Mr. Abbas, would not be freed. Mr. Meshal said that the total would be 1,027, among them 315 prisoners serving life sentences and 27 women.

According to Israeli television, Israel would first release 450 prisoners as Sergeant Shalit is sent to Egypt, possibly in a week. Two months later, the television said, the remaining prisoners would be released. None of the details could be confirmed officially.

Sergeant Shalit was seized in a cross-border raid by Hamas and other Palestinian militant groups in June 2006 and taken into the Gaza Strip.

Hamas, which rejects Israel’s existence, is regarded by much of the West as a terrorist organization. It won Palestinian parliamentary elections in 2006 and took full control of Gaza in 2007, routing the Palestinian Authority forces loyal to President Abbas of Fatah, Hamas’s rival. Since then, Israel has maintained a blockade on Gaza to isolate Hamas, although it has eased many restrictions on imports.

A prisoner exchange deal for Sergeant Shalit had seemed close in late 2009, but the talks collapsed. Israel and Hamas each blamed the other. Israel had balked at releasing some of the prisoners demanded by Hamas, including those convicted as planners and perpetrators of some of the deadliest terrorist attacks in recent years.

Another stumbling block was Israel’s fear of letting some of the prisoners back into the where they might engage again in violence. Previous intelligence chiefs lobbied strongly against such a move.

But the chiefs of all three Israeli intelligence agencies — Mossad, Shin Bet and Military Intelligence — have been replaced in the past year and those objections were partly overcome, according to Israeli officials and analysts. In the current deal, only some prisoners were expected to be permitted into the West Bank.

Amnon Zichroni, an Israeli lawyer who has worked on such issues, told Israel Radio that one reason for the shift was that violence was a less popular form of protest against Israel in the West Bank today, and, he said, “there are increasing efforts to minimize any form of terrorism as a form of resistance.”

Despite efforts to renew peace talks between Israel and the Palestinian Authority, there is little optimism regarding success. The prisoner exchange, assuming it is carried out, seems likely to increase the popularity of Hamas among Palestinians as well as that of Mr. Netanyahu’s Likud Party in Israel, perhaps temporarily sidelining Mr. Abbas.

For years, Israelis have embraced the Shalit family, with many viewing the abducted soldier as, in effect, their own son.

Tens of thousands of Israelis joined the Shalits in the summer of 2010 for parts of a 12-day march from the Shalits’ home in northern Israel to Jerusalem to publicize their son’s plight. Since then, the parents have spent many days in a tent near the prime minister’s residence to draw attention to their son.

Mr. Netanyahu said he had telephoned the Shalits earlier in the day to tell them he was bringing their son home.

“When I took office I took it upon myself, as a personal mission, to bring Gilad home to his family,” Mr. Netanyahu said.

He said he had told his negotiators to hold the talks “under the guidelines important to Israel: the need to bring Gilad home and the need to keep Israel’s citizens safe.”

For Palestinians, the plight of thousands of their sons in Israeli prisons has been equally traumatic, and the possibility of their release drew enormous attention.

In Gaza, night had fallen when the news of a possible exchange began to circulate. Usama Sarhan, 34, a night security guard in a grocery store in Gaza City, expressed guarded optimism as he headed off to catch Mr. Meshal’s address on television. Wary because a deal had been reported to be close previously, he said that if the prisoner trade succeeded, it would be “a victory for Gaza.”

Later, thousands poured into the streets in Gaza and the West Bank in celebration.

Ismail Haniya, the top Hamas leader in Gaza, said at a public rally outside the parliament building in Gaza City that Hamas would begin preparations to receive the prisoners, but gave no indication of timing.

Among those celebrating on the streets was Bahaa al-Madhoun, a Hamas official, whose family was waving a Palestinian flag from their car as he drove past honking motorcycles and trucks blaring .

“This is a huge happiness for the Palestinian people, that their prisoners are being released from prisons,” he said. “The Palestinian people have been waiting for that for years. The resistance won, and the Palestinian people won.”

In Israel, there were some mixed emotions.

Yehudit Shahor, whose teenage son Uri was killed by Palestinians in 1995, told Israeli television that “despite the fear I feel as an Israeli citizen and a terror victim, I am very happy for the Shalit family and feel moved as a mother that this boy will come home.”

But she said she had no doubt that any killers among the released Palestinians would kill again. She added: “I will never see Uri again, but Aviva Shalit has a chance to see her son Gilad. And even if this is a tough deal, a living boy must be returned home at all costs.”
466 2011-10-12 Surveillance cameras watch for shoplifters and potential terrorists. And ever since a bystander recorded Los Angeles police officers beating Rodney King in 1991, video has been used by witnesses or suspects to record what they believe to be misconduct or inappropriate behavior by the police — a practice that has proliferated with the advent of smartphones.

The ubiquity of video in police encounters — some of it promptly uploaded onto YouTube — is creating new frontiers for judges and lawmakers, who must sort out the issues raised by the new technologies.

Courts in several states are considering cases where citizens who videotaped the police have been charged with violating wiretapping or eavesdropping statutes, prosecution that civil rights lawyers say violates First Amendment rights.

If body cameras are widely adopted by police departments — Vievu, the Seattle firm that sold Oakland its cameras, has supplied them to more than 1,100 police agencies across the country, according to Heidi Traverso, a company spokeswoman — privacy questions are likely to be added to the legal stew.

“If a police officer is taking a picture of every interaction, one of the things that he may find is me, naked as a jaybird, when my wife calls to complain,” said Franklin E. Zimring, a professor of law at the University of California, Berkeley. “Let’s assume that it’s either against the law or not, but I sure don’t want it on YouTube. The potential for a sort of permanent embarrassment is a looming presence when everything is filmed.”

Police officers argue that the pager-size devices, which are more versatile and cost far less than dashboard cameras, can provide objective evidence in situations that might otherwise depend on “he said, she said” accounts. Indeed, the videotape of the police shooting in Oakland is likely to play a critical role in the investigation by the department’s internal affairs division. The department has not released the names of the victim or the officers involved in the shooting.

Video from the cameras has also been used in Oakland to evaluate citizen complaints about police behavior, said Officer Johnna Watson, a spokeswoman for the department, adding that in one case — she declined to provide the details — an officer’s video proved that a complaint was unfounded.

Some legal experts also say that the more video evidence available, the better.

“With all its ambiguities and difficulties, the photographic brave new world is better than its predecessor,” Professor Zimring said. “The kinds of mistakes you can make with it are less often and less catastrophic” than with dueling verbal renditions of what occurred.

Howard Wasserman, a First Amendment scholar at Florida International University’s law school, noted that video recordings were not free from subjective interpretation.

“Film and literary theory show that it is a myth that video evidence is an unambiguous, objective, conclusive, singular and clear reproduction of reality,” Professor Wasserman wrote in a 2009 paper on the implications of video recordings for civil rights litigation.

But he, too, said that a world where “all encounters can be recorded by everybody” is “not necessarily a bad state of affairs.”

If nothing else, he and other legal scholars said, the adoption of the body cameras by police departments may help discourage attempts to prosecute citizens for making their own video records of police interactions, in most cases under wiretapping or eavesdropping laws that prohibit recording without consent from both parties.

In Maryland, for example, a speeding motorcyclist, Anthony Graber, was charged with illegal wiretapping last year when he used a helmet-mounted camera to record the state trooper who pulled him over, and then posted the resulting video on YouTube. A judge later threw out the charges, saying that Mr. Graber was within his rights in making the video.

In Illinois, Christopher Drew, an artist, may not be so lucky. He used a digital audio recorder to document his arrest for selling art without a permit in 2009 — a friend also videotaped the arrest and uploaded it on YouTube — and was promptly charged under the state’s unusually restrictive eavesdropping law, which makes recording a police officer without consent a Class 1 felony, punishable by up to 15 years in prison. The case has not yet come to trial.

The American Civil Liberties Union of Illinois, arguing that Illinois’s statute violates the First Amendment and would keep the organization’s members from monitoring citizen-police interactions, filed a lawsuit in 2010 challenging the law. A district court dismissed the case. The civil liberties group is now appealing the judgment.

Professor Wasserman noted that if the police are also videotaping their actions, “to say ‘we can have the cameras and nobody else can’ really becomes problematic.”

He pointed to a sweeping decision issued by a federal appeals court in Massachusetts in August in the case of Simon Glik, a recent law school graduate who was charged under the state’s wiretapping law in 2007 after he used his cellphone to videotape three uniformed police officers he believed were using excessive force. In ruling on a civil rights lawsuit brought by Mr. Glik after the wiretapping charges were dismissed, the appeals court judges said he “was exercising his clearly established First Amendment rights in filming the officers in a public space.”

David Milton, a lawyer who represented Mr. Glik, said he hoped that the federal court’s ruling would influence cases in other states, like the lawsuit brought by the American Civil Liberties Union of Illinois.

“It’s such a strong decision and it’s well reasoned and the first decision that really addresses this case,” Mr. Milton said. “It’s only fair and right that citizens should have the right to record the police.”
467 2011-10-12 The prime minister, Iveta Radicova, called on her coalition partners to reach a deal with Mr. Fico’s party, which has the most lawmakers in Parliament. “We are a small and export-oriented economy, and we need partners around us,” Ms. Radicova said. “I am convinced this government was and is a responsible, competent and reliable one.”

If nothing else, the unwieldy process underscored how the entire $590 billion euro stability fund, approved by the 16 other European Union countries that use the euro, could be held hostage to the domestic politics of one tiny country, in this case Slovakia. It showed as well how a measure intended to increase confidence in the euro zone could instead emerge as a telling example of the shortcomings of a system that relies on a diverse group of nations to make and execute difficult decisions.

The vote on expanding the size and powers of the fund, known as the European Financial Stability Facility, followed a day of speeches, recesses and hastily organized meetings intended to find consensus. The free-market Freedom and Solidarity Party, one of the four parties in the coalition, had refused to back it, even after Prime Minister Radicova risked her position by connecting the bailout fund to a confidence vote in her government.

Politicians in capitals across Europe watched the developments in Slovakia closely. An agreement to expand the fund was reached in July by the leaders of the 17 European Union countries that use the euro. Malta approved the plan on Monday, leaving Slovakia as the last to take up the accord for formal consideration. The possibility that Slovakia, a former Communist country with a population of just 5.5 million, could scuttle an agreement endorsed and passed by European powers like Germany, France and Italy had seemed inconceivable.

One European official speaking anonymously because of the fluidity of the situation, said that it would probably be possible to go ahead with the bailout without Slovakia, if necessary.

The rules of the E.F.S.F. were laid down in a “framework agreement,” rather than being written into the bloc’s governing treaty. That allows “a certain flexibility,” said the official, adding that “in these sorts of cases, where there’s a will, there’s a way.”

Carving Slovakia out of the financial stability fund would be technically messy and would send a terrible signal about the readiness of all 17 nations to participate in the permanent bailout fund the European Union wants to set up after 2013.

Officials in Brussels say they believe that the vote could be reversed with Mr. Fico’s support as early as the end of the week. But “the political damage of a repeated ‘no’ would be horrendous,” said the official.

That means that negotiations are likely to be political ones, seeking to persuade politicians in Slovakia that it is in their interests to ratify the deal, and pointing out that self-exclusion could be harmful in the future if the Slovaks themselves need aid.

The approval process, which has already lasted over two months, has been excruciatingly complex. At times it has seemed like a strange hybrid of a geography class and a civics lesson, wending its way from Finland in the north to the Mediterranean island of Malta, from Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe to a Spanish Parliament surrounded by police barricades to keep protesters at bay.

At each step the union has found a way to muddle through for the sake of unity and fear of the unknown. Those fears center on the repercussions on financial markets and the risk that doubts, and with them speculative attacks, will increasingly spread to large economies like Spain and Italy, should officials fail to contain problems in Greece, Portugal and Ireland.

In Slovakia, the leader of Freedom and Solidarity, Richard Sulik, who is also speaker of the Parliament, has steadfastly refused to support the financial stability fund. Mr. Sulik contends that it is unfair to ask Slovakia, the second-poorest country among those that use the euro, to guarantee loans for richer countries like Greece and Portugal.

“If Greece had gone bankrupt right and straight at the beginning of last year it would have been the sincere and honest solution,” Mr. Sulik said, and it would be in better shape than it was today. With regard to concerns over undercapitalized banks, Mr. Sulik said, “We are not against rescuing banks, but against Slovakia rescuing foreign banks.”

Mr. Sulik called Ms. Radicova’s decision to hold a confidence vote along with the vote on the bailout fund “blackmail.” It is now up to Slovakia’s president, Ivan Gasparovic, to name an interim government, said Marek Trubac, a spokesman for the president. In the meantime, Ms. Radicova would continue as prime minister. Elections could not take place before “early spring,” Mr. Trubac said.

Few Slovaks want to foot the bill for other countries’ overspending. But surveys show that the European Union is popular in Slovakia, and people are very proud of having adopted the euro while neighbors like Poland and their former compatriots, the Czechs, have not.

“The image of Slovakia has already been damaged,” said Ivan Miklos, Slovakia’s finance minister. “Slovakia shouldn’t be viewed as the unreliable member of the euro club.”
468 2011-10-12 But international legal experts say that she seems to have been performing a routine administrative function for which she might conceivably be disciplined, if the government was displeased with her performance, but not charged with a crime.

With Ms. Tymoshenko’s trial at an end, European governments will have to decide whether to make good on their warnings that imprisoning her will freeze efforts to integrate with Ukraine politically and economically. On one hand, Mr. Yanukovich has defied intense diplomatic pressure from Western partners, crossing what one analyst called “the reddest of red lines.”

On the other hand, Ukraine has been under pressure from Russia to join its own economic bloc, along with and . Even compared with the other former Soviet nations, Ukraine — with a population of 46 million — seems to waver between Europe and Russia, so that isolating it from the West could have profound consequences.

Mr. Yanukovich has made integrating with Europe a central goal, and he is likely to head off catastrophic damage by softening Ms. Tymoshenko’s conviction swiftly. One route to this would be decriminalizing the article under which she was convicted. In that event, her name would be cleared and she would be able to run in parliamentary elections in 2012, said Serhiy Vlasenko, one of her lawyers. This could occur as soon as next week, so that Mr. Yanukovich would be welcome at talks in scheduled for Oct. 20.

He suggested as much on Tuesday, when he told journalists, “This is not a final decision.”

“Ahead lies the appeals court, and it will without a doubt make a decision within the bounds of the law, but the decision will have great significance,” he said, in comments carried by the Interfax news agency.

In Brussels, Ukraine’s foreign minister emphasized the progress that the country has made toward meeting European benchmarks, saying the parties “have never been so close to the association agreement as they are now.” A Foreign Ministry statement argued strenuously against linking the Tymoshenko verdict with the European Union procedure, making the case that political leaders like Mr. Yanukovich could not interfere in judicial processes. As news of the verdict spread on Tuesday, though, some in Kiev said Ms. Tymoshenko’s conviction was already marked in Ukraine’s history.

Critics of the verdict warned that Ukraine could follow the pattern set by Belarus, whose nascent engagement with the West came to an abrupt end last year amid a crackdown on opposition figures.

“For the past 10 years, we were in the process of getting to a democratic state,” said Yulia Shcherban, a travel agent. “I agree that people who are dishonest must be charged. But in Ukraine, we are going back in the opposite direction and getting back to the days of the Soviet state: Either you are with those in power or you are against them and you are in trouble. She was against those in power.”

Criticism came from a range of foreign capitals on Tuesday. ’s Foreign Ministry issued a statement saying, “Ukraine’s image as a country that is undertaking a fundamental pro-European transformation has been tarnished.” The White House released a statement urging Ukraine to release Ms. Tymoshenko and other jailed political leaders, and to allow them to run in next year’s parliamentary elections. , the European Union’s foreign policy chief, said the trial “unfortunately confirms that justice is being applied selectively in politically motivated prosecutions of the leaders of the opposition and members of the former government.”

Russia, too, condemned the verdict in Ms. Tymoshenko’s case — in part because her conviction centered on a deal she struck with Prime Minister in 2009, agreeing to pay what prosecutors called an excessively high price for Russian natural gas. Russian analysts said Ukraine might be trying to annul Ms. Tymoshenko’s gas deal and renegotiate for a better price.

Russia’s Foreign Ministry said the prosecution was “initiated exclusively for political motives,” and noted “an obvious anti-Russian subtext to this whole story.” Mr. Putin, who is on a visit to , told reporters, “I don’t really understand what they gave her seven years for.”

Several hundred supporters of Ms. Tymoshenko set up tent camps outside the courtroom on Tuesday, and the police were nervous enough to deploy 1,500 riot police officers in balaclavas and camouflage. But the case is unlikely to mobilize the throngs that coalesced around Ms. Tymoshenko in 2004, when, dressed in the style of an unusually glamorous peasant woman, she became the face of the pro-Western Orange Revolution.

The euphoria faded over the next few years, as the members of the Orange coalition bickered endlessly among themselves and Ukraine’s economy foundered. During the last presidential election, Ms. Tymoshenko struggled to engage her voting base — Ukrainian speakers from the west of the country — and lost narrowly to Mr. Yanukovich, who represents the more Russified east.

Mr. Yanukovich surprised many by embracing an emphatically pro-European path, but that choice did not extend to domestic politics. His inauguration marked the opening of numerous criminal cases against his political rivals, a tactic some trace back to his experience in the bare-knuckled politics of eastern country.
469 2011-10-12 freed a prominent dissident on Wednesday at the start of what state media said would be the release of 6,300 prisoners in a general amnesty that was expected to include a number of political prisoners.

The first dissident known to have been freed was a popular comedian known as Zarganar, who was imprisoned in 2008 for criticizing the government, according to reports from Myanmar.

The releases of political prisoners had been signaled by an open letter from the country’s new human rights body, which called on the government to free “prisoners of conscience,” a term that was a departure from the country’s longstanding position that all prisoners are common criminals.

The release of the country’s estimated 2,100 political prisoners has been a central demand of Western nations.

The announcement in the official media did not characterize the prisoners, but came amid talks over political prisoners between the government and dissidents, as well as American officials, that led the government to list about 600 it was considering releasing. In the letter, published in three state-run newspapers, the chairman of the human rights commission, U Win Mra, wrote that prisoners of conscience could be released if they did not pose “a threat to the stability of state and public tranquillity.”
470 2011-10-12 Stocks on Wall Street treaded water all day awaiting the outcome of a vote in Bratislava, where Slovakian lawmakers debated whether to back an expansion of the European bailout fund.

But after a barrage of speeches and recesses, Wall Street trading had closed on Tuesday before the Slovakian legislature rejected the fund’s expansion.

The rally on Monday dissipated at the opening bell on Wall Street on Tuesday, and the major indexes spent most of the day within a few points of unchanged.

At the close, the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose a fraction of a point — 0.65, to 1,195.54 — and the Dow Jones industrial average fell 16.88 points, to 11,416.30, a drop of 0.2 percent. The Nasdaq composite index gained 0.7 percent, or 16.98 points, to 2,583.03.

The broad European market closed off less than 1 percent.

Volume of trading for stocks listed on the S.& P. 500 was lower than it has been in weeks. The number of trades was slightly lower than on Monday, when the Columbus Day holiday led to a quiet day on Wall Street. In addition to the outcome of the Slovakian vote, investors may have been waiting to see Alcoa’s quarterly results after the markets closed to get an early indication of the earnings season, said Peter Cardillo, the chief market economist for Rockwell Global Capital.
471 2011-10-12 A recipe for roasted beets with chiles, ginger, yogurt and Indian spices....
472 2011-10-12 Two new studies add to the growing body of evidence that taking extra doses of vitamins can do more harm than good.     A study of vitamin E and selenium use among 35,000 men found that the vitamin users had a slightly higher risk of developing pr...
473 2011-10-12 KIZILAY--Dogan, MD, on October 10, 2011. Beloved husband of Dr. Patricia Kizilay. Loving father of Lerzan and Lisa. Cherished grandfather of Rebecca, Schylar, David and Peyton. He was a well-respected and dedicated radiologist in the Metropolitan ...
474 2011-10-13 If you seriously hate tangled earphone cables, a pricey little retaining strap called the Sinch may be your ticket to cable cleanliness....
475 2011-10-13 If you seriously hate tangled earphone cables, a pricey little retaining strap called the Sinch may be your ticket to cable cleanliness....
476 2011-10-13 In the past month, the National Labor Relations Board has come under furious attack from Republicans in Congress, and decades-old workers’ rights are at risk. Backed by a well-financed lobbying and publicity offensive, Republicans are using a recent labor-law complaint against Boeing to achieve a radical goal that goes far beyond the legal issues in the case: unraveling workers’ rights that have been part of the fabric of our social contract since the Great Depression.

In April, the labor board’s acting general counsel filed a complaint against Boeing, alleging that the company retaliated against unionized workers by opening a nonunion aircraft facility in South Carolina, instead of using a facility in its home state of Washington. Citing multiple public statements by Boeing executives, the general counsel contended that the company decided to locate the plant in South Carolina in significant part to punish its Washington workers for having exercised their right to strike, enshrined in the National Labor Relations Act of 1935.

Boeing has an opportunity at trial and in administrative and court appeals to disprove these allegations. It also may avoid the general counsel’s proposed remedy — an order restoring the aircraft production in question to Washington — if it can show that the order would be unduly burdensome.

But for Republicans, the legal process is beside the point. Representative Darrell Issa of California has disparaged the labor board as a “rogue agency,” and the presidential candidate Mitt Romney has called the general counsel’s complaint a “job killer” — even though the outcome of the case will determine only the location, not the number, of jobs. Last month, in an ambush against a federal agency’s powers in a pending case, the Republican-controlled House, voting almost entirely along party lines, approved a bill that would eliminate one of the paramount federal rights afforded workers for decades by prohibiting the labor board from ever ordering any employer to restore jobs illegally outsourced or relocated.

The attack against the Boeing complaint rests on three myths.

Myth No. 1: The general counsel has invoked an unprecedented legal rule. Apart from its unusually large scale (the location of an estimated 1,800 jobs is at stake), the Boeing case involves nothing legally new. The general counsel’s complaint is based on principles accepted by the labor board and the courts over many decades. In 1967, the future Supreme Court Chief Justice Warren Burger (then a federal appellate judge) wrote a decision holding that an employer may not transfer work to punish employees for exercising National Labor Relations Act rights (like the right to strike). Likewise, the labor board has long had the authority to order restoration of work relocated as part of an unfair labor practice, and the appellate courts have approved such orders. In the absence of work restoration, any alternative remedy available to the labor board — like an order that Boeing post a bulletin-board notice promising to obey the law from now on — would be cosmetic.

Myth No. 2: The Boeing complaint means that the government can dictate the location of businesses. Everyone agrees that a company may legally locate its production anywhere it wishes and for any reason — except retaliatory ones. Imagine if Boeing had deliberately located a new plant in an area with a predominantly white labor force and then publicly stated that it did so because it was tired of listening to discrimination complaints made by African-American employees at its home plant. If the general counsel’s allegations are true, Boeing did something legally indistinguishable — unless labor rights no longer count as “real” rights.

Myth No. 3: The general counsel has discretion to drop the case in the name of economic policy. The general counsel is not a policy maker authorized to base decisions on what is good for employment in a particular region of the country. His discretion is confined to enforcing the policy already chosen by Congress in the National Labor Relations Act. If his investigation yields reasonable cause to believe that a violation occurred, his only legally proper course is to bring a case to be decided through the ordinary process. If the Internal Revenue Service determines that a South Carolina employer owes millions in unpaid taxes, should it drop the case if it believes doing so would help the local economy?
477 2011-10-13 Zynga is pressing ahead with its initial public offering plans amid continuing market volatility, which has recently delayed or derailed several I.P.O.'s....
478 2011-10-13 Zynga is pressing ahead with its initial public offering plans amid continuing market volatility, which has recently delayed or derailed several I.P.O.'s....
479 2011-10-13 Raj Rajaratnam, the former chief of the Galleon Group, was sentenced to 11 years in prison, a punishment that exceeds any other given for insider trading.
480 2011-10-13 On Friday, Apple begins selling the latest version of its flagship smartphone. A roundup of reports on how it's going....
481 2011-10-13 People with a condition known as Barrett's esophagus, a complication of acid reflux disease, have a higher risk of developing esophageal cancer -- but the risk is far smaller than widely believed, a new study shows, and routine screening may not b...
482 2011-10-13 People with a condition known as Barrett's esophagus, a complication of acid reflux disease, have a higher risk of developing esophageal cancer -- but the risk is far smaller than widely believed, a new study shows, and routine screening may not b...
483 2011-10-13 While many have had trouble loading the new Apple iOS 5, for some the difficultly is severe. Here is a fix for when your phone or pad won't respond and your computer can't recognize it....
484 2011-10-13 While many have had trouble loading the new Apple iOS 5, for some the difficultly is severe. Here is a fix for when your phone or pad won't respond and your computer can't recognize it....
485 2011-10-13 For the next TimesOpen we're excited to host a timely, critical look at the tradeoffs between privacy and personalization in Web and mobile apps....
486 2011-10-13 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
487 2011-10-13 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
488 2011-10-13 We're inviting students to use one of 25 first lines from The Times Magazine's "Lives" column for creative writing and to share that work on Figment, an online community for young adult readers and writers....
489 2011-10-13 We're inviting students to use one of 25 first lines from The Times Magazine's "Lives" column for creative writing and to share that work on Figment, an online community for young adult readers and writers....
490 2011-10-13 The iPhone 4S was only one of Apple’s product arrivals this week. The other is a free mobile storage service, the successor to MobileMe. And it works....
491 2011-10-13 The iPhone 4S was only one of Apple's product arrivals this week. The other is a free mobile storage service, a more capable successor to MobileMe....
492 2011-10-13 Why audit firms think there is no need to know who actually performs the audit....
493 2011-10-13 Why audit firms think there is no need to know who actually performs the audit....
494 2011-10-13 The Air Force acknowledged for the first time that a computer virus has infected a network at a base in Nevada where pilots operate armed drones in the skies over Afghanistan by remote control....
495 2011-10-13 The Air Force acknowledged for the first time that a computer virus has infected a network at a base in Nevada where pilots operate armed drones in the skies over Afghanistan by remote control....
496 2011-10-13 Time Warner's Warner Brothers Television Group and the CBS Corporation have reached a four-year deal with Netflix, giving it the rights to stream shows from the CW network....
497 2011-10-13 Time Warner's Warner Brothers Television Group and the CBS Corporation have reached a four-year deal with Netflix, giving it the rights to stream shows from the CW network....
498 2011-10-13 In a push to bring in more foreign investment, North Korean officials guide Chinese business people and reporters on a tour of a free trade and economic zone in the country.
499 2011-10-13 An interactive guide to the government's biggest victory yet in a widening investigation of insider trading. The prosecution of Raj Rajaratman, the chief of Galleon, has focused attention on hedge funds and expert networks....
500 2011-10-13 6 Q's About the News | Why are there mixed emotions about the agreement between Israel and Hamas?...
501 2011-10-13 6 Q's About the News | Why are there mixed emotions about the agreement between Israel and Hamas?...
502 2011-10-13 The British government said Wednesday that it would reopen its investigation into the involvement of British forces in one of the most high-profile killings in Northern Ireland during the 30 years of violence known as the Troubles. But the decision to appoint a prominent British human rights lawyer to prepare a report on the extent of police and army “collusion” in the 1989 killing of Patrick Finucane, a lawyer who had represented Irish Republic Army activists, angered his family. They had demanded a full judicial inquiry similar to the one that was completed last year into the “Bloody Sunday” killings of 1972, when British troops shot and killed 13 unarmed Catholic protesters, with another protester dying later of his wounds. The $300 million cost of that inquiry, and the 12 years it took to complete, were cited by the government as reasons for not appointing a similar inquiry in the Finucane case. A previous inquiry had shown that Mr. Finucane was shot 14 times by Protestant gunmen as he ate a meal at his home with his wife and children.
503 2011-10-13 A House committee subpoenaed the Obama administration on Wednesday over a law enforcement program that allowed illegal gun purchases in the United States in an effort to link the weapons to Mexican drug cartels. Representative Darrell Issa, Republican of California and chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said a subpoena went to Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. for Justice Department documents related to the program, called Fast and Furious. Mr. Issa has said that Mr. Holder provided misleading testimony to Congress on May 3 about when he first learned of Fast and Furious, which was overseen by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. A Justice Department spokeswoman, Tracy Schmaler, said that the department had already provided thousands of documents and made many officials available for interviews and testimony. “So any notion that the department isn’t working with the committee is simply wrong,” she said.
504 2011-10-13 PepsiCo is planning to raise prices on some Gatorade sports drinks and Frito-Lay snacks in coming weeks to help offset higher commodity costs.

Those increases, on top of other increases taken earlier this year, are helping the company stand by its full-year earnings growth target, despite a smaller-than-expected boost from foreign exchange rates.

The company — whose brands include Pepsi-Cola, Frito-Lay snacks and Quaker oatmeal — also reported slightly better-than-expected third-quarter earnings on Wednesday.

The company cited a lower tax rate and cost savings from acquisitions, which are helping it endure higher costs for commodities like corn and wheat and weak consumer spending.

PepsiCo executives also sought to quell recent speculation on Wall Street about a possible breakup of the company, saying it had considered that option and did not find it to be in shareholders’ best interest.
505 2011-10-13 Re “Contraceptive Said to Double Risks of H.I.V.“ (front page, Oct. 4):

There is a larger context behind the recent finding that the injectable contraceptive Depo-Provera may increase the risk of women and their male partners becoming infected with H.I.V. For over a decade other studies have warned about this connection.

As a matter of precaution, family planning agencies should have started phasing out injectables, especially in communities at high risk of H.I.V., and encouraged other contraceptive methods. Instead, injectables are vigorously promoted in Africa because they are viewed as a cheap, effective way to reduce population growth.

Depo-Provera has other serious risks and adverse effects, including loss of bone density in young women, significant weight gain and increased depression. In the United States it is mainly targeted at low-income women and women of color.

The United States Agency for International Development recently signed a new contract with Pfizer Pharmaceuticals to increase the agency’s provision of Depo-Provera by 6.2 million doses. This seems inappropriate when the method’s safety is in doubt.

Dr. Hartmann is director of the population and development program at Hampshire College. Dr. Gubrium is assistant professor of public health and health sciences at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
506 2011-10-13 Holly Van Voast has stripped naked in Times Square. She has stripped naked on the Staten Island Ferry. She has stripped naked in the middle of Grand Central Terminal — earning herself a date in Midtown Community Court on Wednesday.

And once she arrived, inside a poorly lit courtroom off Eighth Avenue, Ms. Van Voast, 45, stripped in front of, among others, Judge Rita Mella, her octogenarian lawyer and a stenographer who most likely had little idea what to type.

What’s more, Ms. Van Voast got away with it.

Appearing for a summons she received after exposing herself inside Grand Central in August, Ms. Van Voast wasted little time in building an unimaginably poor defense.

She removed her black coat to reveal her bare breasts to the court. The room went silent. “It was like, ‘What do we do now?’ ” a court officer recalled.

Judge Mella tabled the case until the afternoon, saying she would consider not filing a complaint against Ms. Van Voast if she apologized for her behavior.
507 2011-10-13 WASHINGTON — Birth rates in the United States declined sharply during the recession, according to a report by the Pew Research Center released Wednesday. The analysis, based on data from all 50 states and the District of Columbia, suggested women were putting off having babies while the economy was weak.

According to preliminary data from 2010, the rates dropped to 64.7 births per thousand women ages 15 to 44, from 69.6 births per thousand women in 2007, the year the recession began. The report analyzed data from the National Center for Health Statistics and the Census Bureau.

The link between financial distress and lower rates of childbirth surfaced clearly in the regional data. North Dakota, with one of the lowest unemployment rates in 2008, about 3 percent, was one of two states to show a slight increase in its birth rate from 2008 to 2009. The other was Maine.

In all other states, birth rates declined, said Gretchen Livingston, the lead author of the report. Arizona had the deepest decline in its birth rate, down by 7.2 percent.

It is not unusual for child bearing to fall in times of economic hardship. Birth rates dropped 26 percent in the decade that ended in 1936, Ms. Livingston said, during one of the greatest economic calamities in American history. But the rates later pick up. “What people seem to be doing is not so much deciding not to have children, but postponing until things start to recover,” she said.

She pointed to the difference in age groups as evidence: the only one whose birth rate rose was the 40- to 44-year-olds, who could not delay childbirth any longer. All other age groups’ rates fell.
508 2011-10-13 Now both he and his proposal are getting intensive new scrutiny as Republicans continue to flirt with their candidates less than three months before casting the first votes of the primary season. He continues to surge in national polls.

A poll released Wednesday by NBC News and The found that Mr. Cain was effectively tied with ; on Tuesday night, Mr. Cain and his tax plan were at the center of the candidates’ debate.

But although the specifics of the 9-9-9 plan were developed only in the last few months, it is only the latest incarnation of two ideas popular among some supply-side conservatives for decades.

Mr. Cain was a co-chairman in 1996 of the presidential campaign of , who advocated a flat tax — a single rate on income for all payers. Mr. Cain later supported a “fair tax,” one that would replace all other taxes with a national sales tax.

The 9-9-9 plan combines elements of both ideas. But it is little more than a sketch of what would be a radical and complex overhaul of the tax system. In developing it, Mr. Cain relied heavily on Rich Lowrie, whom he calls his lead economist. Mr. Lowrie is an at a office in Pepper Pike, . Although he is an unpaid member of an advisory board of the American Conservative Union, he has never worked for a policy research group or an academic institution, or made a name through economic analysis.

In an interview, Mr. Lowrie said he had a bachelor of science degree in accountancy from Case Western Reserve University. On his page, he describes his political views as “free markets.” Mr. Lowrie said he had been inspired by two well-known proponents of supply-side thinking: Arthur Laffer, often considered the father of the concept that lower tax rates help pay for themselves by generating additional economic growth, and Jude Wanniski, who promoted the idea among politicians. Mr. Lowrie became involved with the Ohio chapter of Americans for Prosperity, the conservative organization supported by the billionaire Koch brothers.

The plan could have major economic and political challenges: It might result in a substantial revenue loss for the government and shift the tax burden toward lower- and middle-income people.

In an interview, Mr. Cain, a math major in college, said he had asked Mr. Lowrie to do a “regression analysis” that would allow the government to eliminate all existing taxes, including those on capital gains and estates, and collect the same revenue from just three streams. “The number came up to be 9 percent,” Mr. Cain said. “And that’s how we came up with 9-9-9.”

Mr. Lowrie, who met Mr. Cain at a conference sponsored by the conservative Club for Growth, dismissed the notion that his own understanding of economics was limited by lack of a Ph.D. “I don’t list myself as an economist,” he said. “I have an accounting degree, and I’m an investment adviser. I’ve never hung out in a faculty lounge.”

A former staff member for Mr. Cain in described his and Mr. Lowrie’s relationship as “buddy-buddy,” adding, “They were just like two executives palling around together.”

Their plan has drawn fire from both right and left. Conservatives are wary of a national sales tax, concerned that it would create another, easily increased method of taxation. Among the critics are The Wall Street Journal editorial page and , an official in the Reagan and first Bush administrations, who contributes to the Economix blog for .

Critics, especially liberals, say the plan offers a huge tax break for the wealthy while imposing a steep, regressive new sales tax on the middle-class and working poor, with everyday items like milk and bread being subject to a 9 percent tax. In Tuesday’s debate, defending his own 59-point economic plan, Mr. Romney took aim at Mr. Cain’s: “Simple answers are always very helpful, but oftentimes inadequate.”

Mr. Cain said an independent analyst had examined the plan and found that it would raise the same revenue as the existing tax structure. The analyst, Gary Robbins, a consultant in Arlington, Va., said the Cain plan was “revenue neutral.” That is, if it had been in place in 2008, the last year taxes were not affected by the , it would have raised $2.3 trillion in revenue, the amount the federal government collected from all sources other than excise taxes.

“It’s not the plan I particularly would do, but it’s a sound plan,” said Mr. Robbins, who worked for Mr. Forbes’s campaigns and recalled that his flat tax was “designed on my dining room table.”

Actually, Mr. Robbins’s math determined that the across-the-board rates necessary to raise the same money as existing federal taxes should be 9.1 percent.

Somehow, 9.1-9.1-9.1 does not trip off the tongue.
509 2011-10-13 Sergio Rodrigues is in the enviable position of amassing a cult following while still alive. And at 84, the Brazilian designer shows no signs of stopping. Next week, he has a new store opening in New York, his first in this country in more than 40 years. (His previous store, OCA, in Carmel, Calif., closed in 1968.)

The 2,000-square-foot space, Espasso Sergio Rodrigues, will occupy the lower level of Espasso, a TriBeCa shop specializing in Brazilian design. It will initially carry 17 of Mr. Rodrigues’s pieces. “To just have one or two pieces doesn’t tell the story of Sergio, because he has designed so many things,” said Carlos Junqueira, Espasso’s owner. “But I’m not putting everything in at one time.”

Prices range from $1,450 for the Mocho stool to $16,700 for the Mole sofa (the Mole chair, pictured, is $10,150, and the stool is $3,100). Espasso Sergio Rodrigues, 38 North Moore Street (Hudson Street), (212) 219-0017 or espasso.com.
510 2011-10-13 From his studio in Beijing, Ai Weiwei, the outspoken Chinese artist and dissident, had a clear view of Rikers Island. For months Mr. Ai, who was detained by Chinese authorities in the spring and released under close surveillance in June, has been limited in his travel and communications with the outside world. But recently he was able to escape, at least digitally, and even to make new work in another country.

In an unusual collaboration with W magazine, Mr. Ai created a story line for a series of photos that were shot on location in New York by the photographer Max Vadukul as Mr. Ai looked on, art directing via Skype on a laptop computer. The photos will appear in the November issue, W’s sixth annual one devoted to art. They depict a woman, dressed in the requisite designer outfit, being captured, handcuffed and hooded on the street by two menacing figures and taken to a grim institution — a disused part of Rikers — where they watch her shower.

The scenes are reminiscent of photos Mr. Ai took of the Tompkins Square riots in the 1980s, when he lived in New York, which he used as inspiration for the project. They also unavoidably refer to his own confinement, which China’s government has forbidden him from discussing.

“It’s a very astute way of communicating with the world outside of China,” said Melissa Chiu, director of Asia Society Museum, which organized an exhibition of Mr. Ai’s New York-era photos this summer. “I think that what it does is signal that he is prepared to continue his art practice and continue his statements that really can be related to his political activism.”

Mr. Ai did not respond to a request to answer questions about the work; since August, when he published an essay critical of social conditions in Beijing in Newsweek, he has been under even greater pressure to avoid interviews. But Diane Solway, the W senior editor who helped oversee the project, explained how it came together. The magazine typically makes commissions for its art issues — Richard Prince and the sculptor Maurizio Cattelan have participated in the past — and, at the suggestion of W’s editor, Stefano Tonchi, it approached Mr. Ai to do the cover not long after he was released from detention.

“He really, really liked the idea,” said Ms. Solway, who reached Mr. Ai through connections in the art world. “We left it open to him to create an original work and then we didn’t hear from him for a little bit, so we thought it wasn’t happening.”

Out of the blue, Mr. Ai emerged, with not only a cover idea but also a detailed schema for five photos, using his Tompkins Square images as a reference for the mood he wanted to create. In late August, when the W editors, Mr. Vadukul and Mr. Ai discussed the project over Skype, they realized that he could use the same technology to monitor the proceedings in real time.
511 2011-10-13 It was lost on no one here at the Sports Club/LA that the performances — acting as well as athletic — now need to feel at home in a much larger, 950-seat theater on Broadway, compared with the 99-seat church gymnasium where the show had an anything-goes spirit Off Broadway.

The musical centers on a men’s basketball team and its throng of cheerleaders who, in a twist on the Greek classic “Lysistrata,” decide to withhold sex until the guys win a game. Most, if not all, of the performers handle a basketball at some point, with Lysistrata herself displaying some surprising moves.

Turning placid audience members into cheering spectators demands a mix of daredevilry and preparation. Complex training helps keep dancers safely zipping around the theater at the big-budget musical “Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark.” The onstage wrestling at the Off Broadway production of “The Elaborate Entrance of Chad Deity” looked and sounded painful enough but was carefully choreographed so as not to injure the actors.

Basketballs can easily become loose balls, of course, as even Mr. Mullin knows. But this can be part of the fun.

“On any given night the audience won’t know whether the basketball playing on stage will go perfectly or might go awry,” said Dan Knechtges, the production’s director and choreographer, in between drills in which he broke a sweat with his cast. “When we were Off Broadway basketballs sometimes ended up in the audience. A couple of audience members got beaned in the head — not badly though.

“So we’re not trying to turn everyone into fantastic ball handlers,” he continued, “but there are skills that can help a lot on stage, like being able to dribble while looking another actor or the audience in the eye.”

In gray sweat pants and a black T-shirt, the 6-foot-6 Mr. Mullin, a friend of one of the producers, quickly came to life when he hit the court, despite just arriving on a red-eye flight from his home near San Francisco. He encouraged cast bonding by cheering and applauding, even as balls went wildly out of bounds, and was careful not to overwhelm the actors with pointers.

“You want to think about where you’re planting your foot.”

“Release the ball when you’re at your highest point.”

“Shoot, and then follow through the shot with your hand.”

In the first few hours of the camp, the actors displayed a whole gamut of skills. Alex Wyse, who plays a starter on the fictional Athens University squad, was cast despite having virtually no court experience, and his ball control and shooting technique were shaky as he began working with Mr. Mullin. (When told to go to half-court, Mr. Wyse replied, “What does that mean?”) But after a couple of hours of instruction, like Mr. Mullin’s emphasis that “all your power comes from your legs,” the slim Mr. Wyse was landing shots and high-fiving everyone nearby.

“As important as getting the backspin right and steadying the ball — look, I don’t know what I’m saying — just as important is making us feel like a team,” Mr. Wyse said. “Cheering each other on, laughing together — it feels like real camaraderie.”

Far more versatile was Josh Segarra, in the central role of the team captain, who became Mr. Mullin’s de facto assistant at practice. He made his high school basketball team outside Orlando during his freshman year, then quit after being cast as one of the Von Trapp children in a school production of “The Sound of Music.” But he never stopped playing, and his basketball ability put him at ease around other performers who had greater dance talent.

“Last spring I’d spend 15 minutes in rehearsal working with everyone on basketball,” Mr. Segarra said, “but we knew for Broadway that we needed to go to the next level. Having Chris Mullin here — I was floored when they told me. He’s one of the greats.” (Fittingly, given the uneven backgrounds in the cast, some of the other actors had never heard of him.)

Mr. Mullin said he planned to stick to the fundamentals at the camp, with dribbling between one’s legs about as fancy as he would get.

“These guys and girls have real natural talent, so I want to work with that rather than push a lot of basketball technique on them,” Mr. Mullin said. “The good thing about Broadway is they love to perform. Their minds are geared toward discipline, getting moves down cold, impressing the audience and making it all fun. Basketball is a lot like that.”
512 2011-10-13 At the same time, many ordinary Gazans, while saying they were delighted to get the prisoners freed, were wary or guardedly optimistic about what practical difference a prisoner exchange would mean for their daily lives.

Marina Sawwa Abu Seif, a 19-year-old English student at Al-Azhar University, said: “The deal is great, but we wish it had happened earlier. We have had great troubles in the past five years over the return of one Israeli soldier. We would have liked it to be bigger and to have had more prisoners released, but it was good in that it covered the release of all women prisoners, and of children.”

She hoped that with the release of Sergeant Shalit, Israel would lift or ease the restrictions on Gaza in recent years. “I expect life to get easier, because the purpose of the siege was to extract Shalit from Gaza,” she said. “Once he goes back to his family, we expect that things will be better, maybe not immediately and completely, but it will be much better than the current situation.”

Fawzi Barhoum, a Hamas spokesman in Gaza, appeared at a prisoners solidarity tent in Martyrs Street, in the Rimal district of Gaza City. The tent was decorated with posters of prisoners from all factions, and paintings of doves breaking through prison bars and prisoners snapping their manacles.

Mr. Barhoum conceded that some of the released prisoners might be deported, but claimed that deportations would be “minimized” and held out the prospect of some deportees eventually returning to their homes.

“Any release of any detained prominent member of the Palestinian leaders by the occupation to smell freedom is better than to leave him all his life in isolation cells,” he said. Sending a freed prisoner to “any Arab countries during the spring of the Arab revolution” might, he said, prove to be only temporary in the new political climate in the region, and to be “a step to return back again to Palestine.”

However Professor Mkhaimar Abusada, of Al-Azhar University’s political science department, said he was not convinced that Hamas had got all that it wanted from the deal.

“It seems to me that the deal is not different from what was negotiated between Hamas and Israel in the past,” he said. He expressed the view — shared by many in Israel — that the deal was convenient to both Israel and Hamas because neither was pleased about the attention gained by the Palestinian Authority’s president, Mahmoud Abbas, also known as Abu Mazen, when he proceeded with a bid for Palestinian statehood at the United Nations last month.

“It seems to me that Israel is trying to undermine Abu Mazen politically after his historic speech at the U.N. General Assembly 20 days ago, and after the Palestinian, Arab and even international support for Abu Mazen,” he said.

“I also believe that Hamas is definitely unhappy with this political support Abu Mazen has been able to grab over the last month after his speech at the U.N., and Hamas is trying to steal the lights by re-shifting Palestinian, Arab and international public opinion by reaching this deal with Israel right now,” he said. The prisoner exchange, he said, would “definitely boost Hamas’s popularity in the Palestinian Territories and especially in the Gaza Strip after four years of deterioration in Hamas’s popularity.”

There appeared to be a move by Hamas and others to present the release as an opportunity to unify the Palestinian factions. “Prisoners are the symbol of challenge and steadfastness,” Suhail al-Hindi, a union official, told one rally in Martyrs Street. “We call upon all our people for unity, and fellowship and solidarity, and that we make from the suffering of the prisoners an occasion to remove the differences between us.”

Inside the adjacent Gaza City headquarters of the International Committee of the Red Cross, Umar Phiri, the head of the its communications department in Gaza, called the prisoner swap a “positive and good development”. He said the organization had past experience of prisoner releases and was already in contact with both Hamas and Israel. “If they decide that they need our services, which is most likely, we are available,” he said.

In Israel, where Sergeant Shalit’s prolonged captivity had become a national cause, there was a catharsis of relief about the prisoner exchange that will free him. In Sergeant Shalit’s home village of Mitzpeh Hilla in northern Israel, the mood was ecstatic when his mother, Aviva, and father, Noam, arrived there from Jerusalem, where they had spent much of their time in a tent publicizing their son’s plight.

The village, near the Lebanese border, was decorated with Israeli flags, posters and banners ready to welcome Sergeant Shalit when he returns, which is expected in the coming days. “Gilad, you belong here,” read one banner, another said “Every Soldier, and Gilad as well, in the Heart of the Nation Forever”. Children wore white T-shirts bearing Sergeant Shalit’s picture.

His mother said nothing when she arrived home in a car, to be greeted by neighbors throwing candy and rice. His father, who chose to walk the last part of the journey through the village, said that the final preparations could still take a few days. “When Gilad comes home and goes down the stairs a circle will be closed after almost five and a half years when he left home and joined his unit on the border with Gaza,” he said.

One supporter, Gadi Shavtai, from nearby Kibbutz Rosh Hanikra, was carrying a bottle of champagne with the inscription: “We waited long enough. Welcome back home.” He opened the bottle in celebration when the father was walking towards his home.

Shimshon Liebman, head of the Campaign to Release Gilad Shalit, said: “There is a feeling that the spirit is back. The special thing in Israel is the friendship and social morals, which gives the real strength, not tanks.

“We just proved to the world that we do not leave a soldier behind.”
513 2011-10-13 LOS ANGELES — A Florida man was arrested Wednesday and charged with breaking into and commandeering the e-mail accounts of at least 50 celebrities — including the actresses Scarlett Johansson and Mila Kunis and the pop singer Christina Aguilera — to steal photographs, financial data and personal correspondence, the F.B.I. said.

The suspect, Christopher Chaney, 35, of Jacksonville, Fla., was named in a 26-count indictment, the culmination of an 11-month investigation. Officials said the trove of material he obtained — in many cases by taking over the e-mail accounts of his targets so they would automatically forward incoming messages to his own account — included several nude photographs of Ms. Johansson that surfaced on celebrity Web sites last month. Mr. Chaney, who was released on $10,000 bond, faces a minimum of two years, and a maximum of 121 years, in prison if convicted.

André Birotte Jr., United States attorney for Los Angeles, said by all indications Mr. Chaney was acting alone and not doing the bidding of any of the celebrity Web sites or tabloids that thrive on such information, though he said the investigation was continuing. He said Mr. Chaney had not made significant amounts of money with his scheme.

The arrest was announced with fanfare here by the authorities, who said they were using the draw of celebrities in what otherwise might be a routine case to alert the public to basic precautions of e-mail security. Mr. Chaney hacked his way in using public records and informed guesses, the authorities said.

“While there is certainly a celebrity aspect of this case — and let’s make no mistake about it, that’s why I assume many of you are here today — I want to emphasize that all computer users are vulnerable to the same kind of hacker attack,” Mr. Birotte said.

F.B.I. officials said Mr. Chaney used several aliases to gain access to the private accounts of the celebrities between Nov. 3, 2010, and Feb. 10. He used data that he stole to gain access to his targets’ e-mails, officials said.
514 2011-10-13 “These findings suggest that the increase in government spending on security has contributed to provocative policing techniques such as monastery blockades and the mass detentions of monks that have repeatedly contributed to local discontent and unrest,” Human Rights Watch said.

At least 10 Tibetans were shot dead in Aba by security forces during the 2008 uprising, advocacy groups have said. After the unrest, spending on security rose again. By 2009, per-capita spending on security in Aba was 779 renminbi, or $120, five times the average in non-Tibetan areas of Sichuan and twice as much as in Chengdu, the provincial capital, the Human Rights Watch report said. The new measures taken included surrounding monasteries with security forces, raiding monasteries in the middle of the night and detaining monks en masse.

On April 12, about 300 monks were taken from Kirti for weeks of “patriotic re-education,” Human Rights Watch said, and many have not returned. It estimated about 2,000 fewer monks now live at Kirti compared to the total number in March.

The first self-immolation at Kirti took place on March 16, by a 20-year-old monk named Phuntsog. He was the first monk to kill himself by self-immolation to protest Chinese rule in Tibet, according to historians.

In August, Tsewang Norbu, a 29-year-old monk at Nyitso Monastery in Ganzi, another Tibetan region of Sichuan, also committed suicide by setting himself on fire. Like in Aba, the security budget of Ganzi, known in Tibetan as Karze, also increased sharply after 2002, Human Rights Watch said. In total, at least four Tibetans have killed themselves through self-immolation this year, all monks in Sichuan.

China seized control of Tibet in the 1950s and considers the former kingdom an inseparable part of the country. The Chinese authorities forced Tibet’s spiritual leader the Dalai Lama to flee into exile in 1959 and have no tolerance for Tibetan separatist sentiment in Tibet or adjoining provinces populated by ethnic Tibetans.

On Tuesday, China’s Foreign Ministry responded to the spate of self-immolations, condemning what it called the “Dalai clique” for publicizing them as a way to inspire more Tibetans to kill themselves in this way.

“They publicly played it up, spread rumors and incited more people to follow suit,” the Foreign Ministry spokesman, Liu Weimin, told reporters at a daily news briefing in Beijing. He also called the self-immolations part of a separatist plot against Chinese rule in Tibet.

On Wednesday, the parliament and the cabinet of the Tibetan government in exile, based in Dharamsala, India, released a statement expressing deep concern over what it called the deteriorating situation in Tibet. The statement said: “We express our solidarity with all those who lost their lives and with all other Tibetans who are incarcerated for their courage to speak up for the rights of the Tibetan people.”

A new prime minister, Lobsang Sangay, formerly a research fellow at Harvard Law School, recently took charge of the exile government after being elected to his post. The Dalai Lama, 76, has said he is ceding all political power to the government.
515 2011-10-13 He also claimed authorship of the phrase “Gay is good” a year before the 1969 in New York, widely regarded as the first milestone in the gay rights movement. Many of the tributes that began to appear on the on Wednesday noted that Mr. Kameny’s death coincided with National Coming Out Day.

Mr. Kameny has been likened both to and to Gen. George Patton, two historical figures not frequently found in the same sentence. “Frank Kameny was our Rosa Parks, and more,” Richard Socarides, the president of the advocacy group Equality Matters, said on Wednesday. During the Clinton administration, Mr. Socarides was the special assistant for gay rights in the White House, outside which Mr. Kameny and others had picketed in 1965 to protest their treatment by the government.

The Patton analogy was made by Dudley Clendinen and Adam Nagourney in their 1999 book “Out for Good: The Struggle to Build a Gay Rights Movement in America.” (Mr. Nagourney is a reporter for , and Mr. Clendinen is a former Times reporter.)

“Franklin Kameny had the confidence of an intellectual autocrat, the manner of a snapping turtle, a voice like a foghorn, and the habit of expressing himself in thunderous bursts of precise and formal language,” the authors wrote. “He talked in italics and exclamation points and he cultivated the self-righteous arrogance of a visionary who knew his cause was just when no one else did.”

Franklin Edward Kameny was born May 21, 1925, in . He entered , served in the Army in the and during World War II and was awarded his doctorate from Harvard in 1956. He was hired as an astronomer the next year by the Army Map Service, but lasted only five months when the government learned he had been arrested by the morals squad in Lafayette Park, across from the White House, which was known as a gay cruising ground.

At the time, under an executive order signed by President in 1953,“sexual perversion” was considered grounds for dismissal from government employment. Mr. Kameny contested his firing through level after level of legal appeal, until the declined to hear his case in 1961.

Unable to get another job in his field, he became radicalized, he told Eric Marcus, who interviewed him for the 1992 book “Making History: The Struggle for Gay and Lesbian Equal Rights, 1945-1990.” Mr. Kameny said his personal manifesto emerged from the petition he prepared for the Supreme Court.

“The government put its disqualification of gays under the rubric of immoral conduct, which I objected to,” Mr. Kameny said. “Because under our system, morality is a matter of personal opinion and individual belief on which any American citizen may hold any view he wishes and upon which the government has no power or authority to have any view at all. Besides which, in my view, homosexuality is not only not immoral, but is affirmatively moral.

“Up until that time, nobody else ever said this — as far as I know — in any kind of formal court pleading.”

After this loss, Mr. Kameny recognized that the ’s classification of homosexuality as a sickness posed a high hurdle to the movement.

“An attribution of mental illness in our culture is devastating, and it’s something which is virtually impossible to get beyond,” he said to Charles Kaiser, who interviewed him in 1995 for his book “The Gay Metropolis: 1940-1996.” He was among those who lobbied for its reversal.

In December 1973, the psychiatric association’s board of trustees approved a resolution declaring that homosexuality, “by itself, does not necessarily constitute a psychiatric disorder.”

Leading who believed otherwise, like Dr. Charles W. Socarides (the father of Richard Socarides), pushed for a membership-wide referendum in the hope of overturning the resolution. In April 1974, 5,854 of the association’s roughly 20,000 members voted to support the trustees’ position, 3,810 to oppose it. The result left Mr. Kameny “ecstatic,” he said.

As for his firing, Mr. Kameny lived long enough to receive and accept an apology from John Berry, the director of the United States Office of Personnel Management, successor to the Civil Service Commission. Speaking of Mr. Kameny on Wednesday, Mr. Berry said:

“He helped make it possible for countless of patriotic Americans to hold security clearances and high government positions, including me.”
516 2011-10-13 The City Council of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania’s financially troubled capital, filed for bankruptcy on Wednesday, a surprise move that was immediately opposed by the mayor and Gov. Tom Corbett, who argued that the filing was illegal under state law.

The filing — which listed debts in excess of $400 million, largely associated with a failed trash incinerator — pitched the city into political confusion. A spokesman for Mayor Linda Thompson initially said the filing had not been made. Ms. Thompson later held a new conference denouncing the move as “a sneak attack,” according to The Associated Press.

The Council’s decision came Tuesday night in a 4-to-3 vote. Immediately after, a lawyer for the Council faxed a petition for Chapter 9 bankruptcy to the United States Bankruptcy Court and filed it in person at 10 a.m. Wednesday.

The petition was called into doubt almost as soon as it was filed. A spokesman for Governor Corbett, Kelli Roberts, said the filing violated the state’s fiscal code, which was amended this year to bar cities like Harrisburg from filing for Chapter 9 bankruptcy.

“For us, this filing is illegal,” Ms. Roberts said. “It’s very clear.”

Council members like Brad Koplinski, who voted for the filing, acknowledged that it was an extraordinary move, but argued that the petition was legal, and even necessary because the mayor’s state-backed plan for financial overhaul had been rejected by the Council. The Council has been locked in battle with Ms. Thompson for months, voting to reject her plan largely on the ground that it demanded too little from creditors.
517 2011-10-13 The company detected an unusual number of log-in attempts from particular Internet protocol addresses and decided to freeze the accounts involved. Sony has e-mailed account owners to notify them of a possible breach and to ask them to reset their passwords.

“We were able to move swiftly, and we believe very few accounts were actually accessed,” said Satoshi Fukuoka, a spokesman for Sony.

The company was stepping up its vigilance against similar attacks, Mr. Fukuoka said, but he also urged users to make a habit of changing their passwords frequently for Sony and other online services.

New trouble at Sony’s electronics and entertainment divisions adds to problems for the Japanese technology leader. Sony has been contending with heightened competition from nimbler rivals, as well as a punishingly strong yen that has eroded its competitive edge and profitability in important overseas markets.

Sony, the largest Japanese exporter of consumer electronics, had to halt work at six plants after the earthquake and tsunami that struck northeastern Japan in March. In July, Sony cut its forecast for annual profit 25 percent to 60 billion yen ($782 million), after sinking to a first-quarter loss of 15.5 billion yen.

The attack follows a large data breach starting in April that compromised data for more than 100 million online game and entertainment accounts, including credit card information, and forced Sony to shut down the PlayStation Network.

It took Sony more than two months to fully restore the network, and its slow handling of the breach led to widespread criticism of its online security. The company has since promised to overhaul its Web defenses and created the position of chief information security officer. Sony said that the latest attacks — which targeted the PlayStation Network and other online services offering digital content — did not suggest a security weakness on its part.

Sony has been eager to expand its network offerings to combine its gadgets better with content from its movie, music and video game businesses. The PlayStation Network allows users to download video games onto Sony game consoles, while the Sony Entertainment Network offers music and movies for a range of Sony products, including its Bravia televisions, Xperia smartphones and Sony Tablets.

But in the online sphere, Sony has fallen behind Apple, whose iTunes and App Store services have helped increase sales of both content, like music and games, and gadgets, like iPhones and iPads. In June, Apple said there were 225 million registered iTunes and App Store accounts, compared with a combined 138 million accounts on Sony’s main online entertainment networks.

Meanwhile, the defective parts discovered in Sony’s televisions affect 1.6 million liquid-crystal-display units, the company said in a separate statement. A defect in an inverter transformer used for LCD backlights could cause overheating, smoke and melting parts, it said.

The company said it would repair the Bravia sets worldwide, including 400,000 TVs in North America, 600,000 in Europe and 189,000 in Japan. It might also announce further repair programs for other markets, Sony said.

Sony, which has lost money on TVs for seven consecutive years, said in August that it was preparing to overhaul the business to reduce costs and compete better against rivals, including Samsung Electronics of South Korea, the market leader. A push into 3-D TVs, as well as Internet-ready models developed with Google, have failed to stem Sony’s slide in global market share, which stood at 11.7 percent in the second quarter of 2011, according to DisplaySearch.
518 2011-10-13 Innovate, then refine.     It's a pattern at Apple, and the iPhone 4S -- despite disappointment from some -- fits right into it....
519 2011-10-13 KIZILAY--Dogan, MD, on October 10, 2011. Beloved husband of Dr. Patricia Kizilay. Loving father of Lerzan and Lisa. Cherished grandfather of Rebecca, Schylar, David and Peyton. He was a well-respected and dedicated radiologist in the Metropolitan ...
520 2011-10-13 STEPHENSON--Robert McCreary, 73, of Naples, FL and Williamsburg, VA passed away on October 10, 2011. Mr. Stephenson was born in Louisville, KY on May 15, 1938. He grew up in Ashland, KY and graduated from Phillips Academy Andover in Andover, MA in...
521 2011-10-14 A Connecticut woman will be allowed to name her line of skin care products after her daughter Willa. Procter & Gamble contended consumers would confuse the brand with its Wella hair care products....
522 2011-10-14 A Connecticut woman will be allowed to name her line of skin care products after her daughter Willa. Procter & Gamble contended consumers would confuse the brand with its Wella hair care products....
523 2011-10-14 A new report by Better Markets, a nonprofit group advocating constraints on speculative trading, blames Wall Street for inflating prices at the gas pump and the grocery store....
524 2011-10-14 President Obama's decision to deploy troops to Uganda to help capture a notorious rebel leader came after a concerted campaign by human rights advocates....
525 2011-10-14 President Obama's decision to deploy troops to Uganda to help capture a notorious rebel leader came after a concerted campaign by human rights advocates....
526 2011-10-14 Tim Pawlenty had money on his mind a few weeks before he ended his bid for the Republican presidential nomination....
527 2011-10-14 Tim Pawlenty had money on his mind a few weeks before he ended his bid for the Republican presidential nomination....
528 2011-10-14 A look at the latest Weekend Business podcast, and a listen....
529 2011-10-14 A look at the latest Weekend Business podcast, and a listen....
530 2011-10-14 A new report by Better Markets, a nonprofit group advocating constraints on speculative trading, blames Wall Street for inflating prices at the gas pump and the grocery store....
531 2011-10-14 A lawsuit brought by participants in Ameriprise's 401(k) plan raises questions about how it treats its customers' money....
532 2011-10-14 A lawsuit brought by participants in Ameriprise's 401(k) plan raises questions about how it treats its customers' money....
533 2011-10-14 For many organisms, chemical signals and cues play a big role in determining who eats whom, who mates with whom and who wins in competitive interactions....
534 2011-10-14 For many organisms, chemical signals and cues play a big role in determining who eats whom, who mates with whom and who wins in competitive interactions....
535 2011-10-14 In the latest Minimalist video, an easy, forgiving way to cook fish....
536 2011-10-14 Mark Bittman demonstrates an easy, forgiving way to cook fish in a new Minimalist video....
537 2011-10-14 A look at the financial realities of same-sex partnerships.
538 2011-10-14 A look at the financial realities of same-sex partnerships.
539 2011-10-14 Three hedge funds filed an involuntary petition to put the debtor, which happens to be incorporated in the Cayman Islands, into bankruptcy....
540 2011-10-14 Three hedge funds filed an involuntary petition to put the debtor, which happens to be incorporated in the Cayman Islands, into bankruptcy....
541 2011-10-14 A look at the intense criticism Herman Cain has undergone this week over his economic plan. Also, campaign finance filings are due on Saturday....
542 2011-10-14 A look at the intense criticism Herman Cain has undergone this week over his economic plan. Also, campaign finance filings are due on Saturday....
543 2011-10-14 The Republican candidate's energy plan relies on tapping domestic resources to feed the nation's energy needs and help the economy....
544 2011-10-14 The Republican candidate's energy plan relies on tapping domestic resources to feed the nation's energy needs and help the economy....
545 2011-10-14 Sgt. Jeffrey Sarver said the film was based on him without his permission....
546 2011-10-14 Sgt. Jeffrey Sarver said the film was based on him without his permission....
547 2011-10-14 No phone plus no cable equals no business for many frustrated merchants in one of Manhattan's most expensive commercial districts....
548 2011-10-14 No phone plus no cable equals no business for many frustrated merchants in one of Manhattan's most expensive commercial districts....
549 2011-10-14 The location services reward the businesses with the most check-ins by ranking them higher in their search results. Have they worked for your business?...
550 2011-10-14 The location services reward the businesses with the most check-ins by ranking them higher in their search results. Have they worked for your business?...
551 2011-10-14 Faced with cutoff scores that reached "a near-impossible" 100 percent in some cases, some Indian students are casting a longing glance toward American colleges....
552 2011-10-14 Faced with cutoff scores that reached "a near-impossible" 100 percent in some cases, some Indian students are casting a longing glance toward American colleges....
553 2011-10-14 Raj Rajaratnam, the former chief of the Galleon Group, was sentenced to 11 years in prison, a punishment that exceeds any other given for insider trading....
554 2011-10-14 Raj Rajaratnam, the former chief of the Galleon Group, was sentenced to 11 years in prison, a punishment that exceeds any other given for insider trading....
555 2011-10-14 On Friday, Apple begins selling the latest version of its flagship smartphone. A roundup of reports on how it's going....
556 2011-10-14 “For big branding campaigns, TV is always going to be a huge part of it,” said Michael Tabtabai, integrated creative director at Wieden & Kennedy, the ad agency. “But a lot of brands are taking risks, putting money in places they may not traditionally have chosen.”

To earn a larger share of television ad dollars, the biggest prize in advertising, YouTube has to recruit new kinds of advertisers, beyond the music, entertainment and technology companies that have flocked to the site, and convince them that YouTube is a fruitful place for brand building.

And Google, which got its start and still makes the vast majority of its money from search ads — a few lines of text that invite a direct response — has to learn how to work with advertisers who want to sear their brands into the minds of Internet users.

YouTube’s latest step in that direction is the hiring of Mr. Watson, Procter & Gamble’s former head of digital business strategy, who in June became YouTube’s first vice president of online video global sales.

By hiring Mr. Watson from Procter & Gamble, YouTube acquired expertise in consumer-packaged goods, a sector that has been slow to online video advertising. Video ads for one of Procter & Gamble’s brands, Old Spice, were a viral success online last year.

Mr. Watson said that all ads on YouTube would eventually be video ads for brands. Unlike television, YouTube incorporates social elements by inviting viewers to choose whether they watch, share or create their own videos about advertisers’ products. And YouTube, he said, had both global reach and the ability to target an ad to 20-something men who live near a pizza shop.

Still, YouTube has a small window of time to capitalize on that ability, because as Internet-connected televisions, including Google TV, become more popular, television will also be able to show personalized ads.

“It has an advantage now because it’s serving up one stream for one person and knows who that person is in most cases, but the other big networks are getting there,” said Jim Louderback, chief executive of Revision3, the Internet TV service. Even though YouTube is showing more professional videos so brands can avoid appearing next to unsavory homemade videos, advertisers still hesitate to spend as much on YouTube as they do on TV, said Benjamin Palmer, chief executive of Barbarian Group, a digital marketing agency.

“The production value on YouTube on average is way lower than it is on television,” Mr. Palmer said. “It’s hard to justify spending millions of dollars running a Web spot that has helicopter shots and explosions when your ad is sitting next to something shot on a two-year-old cellphone.”

Still, YouTube is willing to experiment with new types of advertising that could never appear on television, Mr. Palmer said, like a live-streamed ad campaign that he is working on, choose-your-own-adventure videos or user-created ads.

“We’ve kind of tapped out the medium of television,” he said, “but we’ve got years and years of brand-new experiences that have yet to be conceived on YouTube.”

Lenovo, for example, this week introduced YouTube Space Lab, a contest for teenagers to submit videos of science experiments that could be performed in space. The goal is to introduce children to the brand’s computers, which are used at the International Space Station, and promote a new ThinkPad.

“It’s much more authentic than us saying, ‘You’ve got to love Lenovo,’ ” said Tracey Trachta, vice president of consumer marketing at Lenovo. “The audience is an active part of the program as opposed to passive.”

GoPro, which makes mountable cameras for taking pictures while doing active sports, trolls for videos shot with its camera on YouTube and, with the users’ permission, edits them to show on its YouTube channel and in its online and TV ads. One video, watched six million times in two days, showed a buck leaping across a mountain biker’s trail in Africa and knocking him to the ground.

“The content ends up selling the cameras,” said Stephen Baumer, GoPro’s chief technology officer. “These consumers, to our delight, are advertising on our behalf.”

Dodge ran a campaign for its Journey vehicle that started on television and asked viewers to go to YouTube to get clues to hunt for hidden cars and find the cars in the real world. Then it posted videos of the car winners on YouTube.

“What YouTube has done in the last year is open up the platform to you as a brand to use any kind of technology and ask people to become part of the story,” said Mr. Tabtabai of Wieden & Kennedy, which worked on the Dodge campaign. “We’re really just scratching the surface.”
557 2011-10-14 It’s always difficult to lay these things out with any certainty. For one thing, there’s not much precedent. When George W. Bush resigned in December 2000 and Mr. Perry ascended, the Senate chose Bill Ratliff, Republican of Mount Pleasant, to be lieutenant governor, and the membership of the Senate wasn’t an issue. He was picked by the full Senate, using secret ballots.

The easiest way to win an election is to have the votes. The next easiest way is to change the rules of the election. There’s always cheating, but that’s another story.

The new Senate map (which is being challenged in federal court and could change) was drawn to elect 20 Republicans to the 31-member Senate. The majority of the Senate is not from the conservative wing of the Republican Party. That’s true in the current Senate and will most likely be true in the next one, even with five or more fresh faces. They simply don’t have the votes if it’s up to the full Senate.

They could reach a majority in the Republican caucus, however, where it takes 11 to prevail. If the Republicans agree to stick with the caucus decision, they’d have a majority in the full Senate. The outcome of the caucus vote would depend on who’s in the Senate when that vote is taken — new folks or old ones.

If the Senate’s vote is open — if the public can see how each senator votes — it becomes easier for outside groups to influence the senators. Some are already working on that. Michael Quinn Sullivan, with a group called Empower Texans, is trying to get conservative activists to work on their senators now, more than a year before this unfolds, to force an open ballot. “If people are concerned, they need to talk to those senators today,” he said.

Even if that doesn’t get them the lieutenant governor they want, it’ll make the autopsy easier when conservatives are marking senators as friends and enemies. The theory is that the Republican senators (and even some Democrats) might vote differently if the rest of us can see how they’re voting. Senator Dan Patrick, Republican of Houston, and Mr. Sullivan think that will benefit their side — so much so that each says the open vote is more important than an agreement to vote in and stick together as a caucus.

“I want the outside to impact the inside,” said Mr. Patrick, who’s been working to push the vote into caucus and to make it a public ballot. “It should not be an inside game. That’s what people hate about politics.”

Of course, Mr. Perry and Mr. Dewhurst could lose and return to Austin for another two years. That rich man could hop out of his deathbed.
558 2011-10-14 Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi said Thursday that his government was the only “credible alternative” capable of leading Italy through the economic crisis. His government faces a confidence vote in Parliament on Friday. If he loses it, he will be forced to step down. On Tuesday, the government unexpectedly failed to pass routine legislation, prompting the call for the confidence vote.
559 2011-10-14 HONG KONG — Inflation slowed slightly for consumers last month in China and slowed a little more at factories, as stringent controls on bank lending and a gradually strengthening currency began to tame strongly rising prices, data released by the Chinese government on Friday showed.

But consumer prices still rose rapidly for the most politically significant category, food, with prices up 13.4 percent last month from a year earlier, the same as in August, although down from a peak of 14.8 percent in July.

Over all, consumer prices were up 6.1 percent in September from a year earlier, compared with increases of 6.2 percent for August and a peak of 6.5 percent in July. Prime Minister Wen Jiabao conceded in early summer that China would not meet its goal of keeping consumer inflation below 4 percent this year.

But producer prices, measured at the factory gate, showed a more pronounced pull back last month, which could be a sign of moderating inflation in the months to come. Producer prices were up 6.5 percent in September from a year earlier, compared with 7.3 percent in August and a peak of 7.5 percent in July.

China has allowed its currency, the renminbi, to appreciate slightly more quickly this autumn as a way to make imports cheaper and control inflation, although most economists still say the currency is undervalued and the Senate approved legislation this week to make it easier for companies to obtain tariffs on Chinese imports that may benefit from China’s daily intervention in currency markets to hold down the value of the renminbi. Slowing inflation together with weakening overseas demand has prompted some economists to warn that China may now put the brakes on renminbi appreciation, which could aggravate tensions with the United States.
560 2011-10-14 Still, dogs have occasionally found their way onto the periphery of Mr. Bloomberg’s public life. His daughter Georgina has spoken against mass breeding. Bloomberg-themed T-shirts for dogs are widely available online. (Options include “Mike Is My Homeboy,” “Bloomberg for President” and “Free Plaxico.”) And Mr. Bloomberg has made fleeting reference to Bonnie and Clyde in political contexts, remarking that the city’s parks had become so safe under his leadership that “my girlfriend goes and walks the dogs at 1 in the morning.”

But in a country whose 16 most recent presidents have had dogs, according to the Presidential Pet Museum in Williamsburg, Va., Mr. Bloomberg stands apart as one of the few public figures who have declined the opportunity, quite literally given to him, to use the animals to burnish his Everyman credentials.

Stu Loeser, a spokesman for the mayor, was asked if Mr. Bloomberg liked the dogs. If he ever walked them. If he considered them his own.

“Ms. Taylor’s dogs have nothing to do with the mayor’s public life,” Mr. Loeser replied in an e-mail.

They have, however, wrought occasional havoc on his town house, chewing hand towels, a bench in the breakfast nook and the hood of Ms. Taylor’s jacket. On one occasion, while gated inside “their half of the kitchen,” said Robert Haussmann, their former trainer, the dogs nudged a crate toward the edge of their pen, climbed atop it, and leapt over to taste the freedom of, well, the other half of the kitchen.

“They had a whole grand theft thing worked out,” said Mr. Haussmann, who features a testimonial, attributed to Ms. Taylor and Mr. Bloomberg, on his Web site. “I want to come back as Mayor Bloomberg’s dogs.”

He could do worse. Most mornings, Ms. Taylor walks her pets in Central Park, often for more than an hour, unfastening their matching red leashes once they reach the main walkway, as is permitted in much of the park before 9 a.m. Fellow owners often shout instructions at their dogs, lest the animals decide that life in the urban wilderness might be more attractive than a return home. Ms. Taylor, parkgoers said, never has to yell.

On a recent weekday morning, as their owner strode in front of them in black athletic pants and a jacket vest, sipping from a coffee cup, Bonnie and Clyde greeted the day in typical fashion. Bonnie darted across the pavement, hazel eyes wide, stopping to exchange pleasantries with a Portuguese hound. Clyde busied himself with a small stick he had found beside a tree, pinning it beneath his paws as he chewed.

Soon, a parade of dogs converged on the edges of the Great Lawn, but Bonnie and Clyde played mostly with each other, as they often do, according to park regulars. At one point, an Australian shepherd-poodle mix, Sydney, bounded over, tongue dangling, then sped off in an attempt to inspire a chase. The Labradors declined. They remained in their places, nestled against each other, and soon Ms. Taylor leashed them and returned to the town house, where the entrance is guarded by police officers at all hours.
561 2011-10-14 Still, some troubling issues remained; in those three months, there were 73 instances when riders got stuck in elevators. And escalators and elevators in disrepair tended to stay that way.

“The public perception is in a totally different place because if you come upon an escalator and it’s out of service, your perception is that it’s never in service,” Thomas F. Prendergast, president of New York City Transit, said.

The authority knows that this has long been a problem and is doing its best to fix it, Mr. Prendergast said. In July, the authority restructured elevator and escalator operations by creating a dedicated 299-person group, naming Tony Suarez as its leader, and having him present quarterly reports directly to the authority board.

Since then, the authority has tried to give riders better updates about out-of-service elevators and escalators by sending text messages, posting information on its Web site and adding more signs in stations. Most of all, Mr. Prendergast said, he is trying to change the mind-set of transit workers who dismiss broken elevators as an inevitable part of urban transportation.

“Part of it’s denial and part of it’s blaming others,” Mr. Prendergast said of some transit workers’ view of elevator and escalator problems. “But we have to rise to another place.”

Visits to some of these stations showed that the authority has plenty of work ahead. At the Pelham Bay Park station in the Bronx, one of the two elevators was out of service 72 percent of the time in the second quarter of this year, and the lone escalator worked one-third of the time. So it was not surprising to see an out-of-order sign hung near an elevator at the mezzanine level.

What was surprising was to see the elevator doors open and passengers disembark.

A mechanic nearby said he had just fixed the elevator, but cautioned that it was subject to breakdowns because it was occasionally exposed to the elements, and “rain and metal don’t mix.”

It is even difficult for the most politically connected to get station elevators fixed promptly. Councilman James Vacca, a Bronx Democrat who is the chairman of the City Council’s Transportation Committee, said he had recently called the authority from the Pelham Bay Park station to report the elevator was broken.

“The M.T.A. said to me: ‘No, Mr. Vacca. It was fixed.’ I said, ‘No, I am here,’ ” Mr. Vacca said. “Three days later, that was fixed.”

Some of the city’s deepest stations, where riders are most dependent on elevators and escalators, also have the worst performance records, like the Lexington Avenue-63rd Street station. Mr. Miller, the retiree, said that to get home to Roosevelt Island after his regular medical appointments, if the elevator was not working, he had to take three escalators down to the platform for the Queens-bound F train — or else walk to Second Avenue and 60th Street for the tram.

At the Flushing Avenue stop in Brooklyn, the elevator to street level on a recent afternoon filled steadily with patients heading to Woodhull Medical Center. Older riders leaned on canes and walkers, while younger mothers squeezed strollers onto the elevator, which has the worst performance record in Brooklyn.

Ms. Duncan, who leaned on her walker, shared tales of when that elevator had trapped passengers or had been out of service for weeks.

“Most of the time, they have the sign, ‘It’s not working,’ ” Ms. Duncan said. “I am surprised it’s on now.”
562 2011-10-14 But more than two years after the White House offered a government lifeline to help the industry survive the and a crunch, the General Motors assembly plant here has roared to life, producing the only subcompact car made on American soil, the Sonic.

On Friday, Mr. Obama will tour a downsized version of the plant in Lake Orion, which President came to dedicate in 1984. Reagan won the White House with the help of middle-class Democrats in the suburbs of , including Oakland County, whose mix of independent voters and upper-income residents makes it a bellwether for Mr. Obama.

Monica Shepard, who has worked at General Motors for three decades as an electrician, remembers the day that Mr. Reagan visited. She conceded that Mr. Obama may not be as popular, but she said many people here were grateful, even if the restructuring created a two-tiered system under which nonunion workers are paid a fraction of previous wages.

“Every small businessman that I know, they’re all glad the president bailed out General Motors because without that, the whole area would be obliterated,” said Ms. Shepard, 54, as she left her afternoon shift the other day. “I voted for him to do a job and I would like to see him follow through.”

As the presidential race intensifies, Michigan will become more than a trove of 16 electoral votes. It will be a virtual laboratory for some of the most central themes of the campaign in a state that embodies the changing face of the nation’s economy.

If Republicans carry the state for the first time since 1988 in a presidential race — an outcome that advisers to Mr. Obama strongly dismiss — he will probably face a similar erosion of support across , and other Rust Belt states. But even if Mr. Obama wins the state, where independent voters and some Republicans may be inclined to support him because of jobs created by the slow revival of the auto industry, the bailout argument could carry significant weight elsewhere.

“I don’t see how you win the White House without Michigan,” said Stan Greenberg, a Democrat, who has been conducting polls and studying Michigan politics since 1982. “I do not assume that Michigan will fall back into being a blue state. It will be on the edge.”

The president’s argument — and early signs of a potential revival of support — will be tested here in Oakland County, a Republican stronghold that Mr. Reagan carried by 22 points in 1980. It steadily gravitated toward the Democratic Party, with narrowly losing in 2000 and 2004. Mr. Obama won the county by 15 points four years ago, but the Republican candidate for governor, Rick Snyder, carried it last year by more than 20 points.

“The whole wave he rode in on isn’t here anymore,” said Dennis Pittman, the executive director of the Oakland County , speaking about Mr. Obama. “He’s in trouble here.”

A majority of voters across Michigan have a negative assessment of Mr. Obama’s performance. Only 38 percent gave him a positive rating, while 61 percent rated him negatively, according to a statewide poll conducted Oct. 1 through Oct. 4 by Epic-MRA. Still, 46 percent of Michigan voters have a favorable opinion of Mr. Obama, the poll found, compared with 47 percent who have an unfavorable view.

The unemployment rate in Michigan climbed higher after Mr. Obama took office, surpassing 14 percent. But after the bailout of the auto industry, it began dropping gradually. In August, it was 11.2 percent, still above the national average of 9.1 percent.

Former Gov. Jennifer Granholm, a Democrat whose term expired last year, said Michigan — before and after federal government intervention — should be viewed as a test for confronting the nation’s economic woes. By her account, she initially attacked the problem with cuts in spending, in state workers and in the size of government, all seen as antidotes to the nation’s troubles.

“It was only that active government that started to see us trending in the right direction rather than continuing that downward spiral,” she said in a recent interview.

Governor Snyder, who was elected in a Republican wave that also helped the party win several statewide offices, a majority on the state Supreme Court, control of the state House and a bigger majority in the state Senate, said the economy of Michigan had shown modest signs of rebounding. “The whole feeling and atmosphere is improved,” he said, but declined to say who should receive credit.

Yet the stark population changes have injected uncertainty into campaign.

Michigan was the only state in the country to lose population in the last 10 years. Predictable pockets of Democratic strength are less reliable. Detroit, the state’s largest city with a majority black population, lost a quarter of its residents, with more than 200,000 people leaving.

Several demographers who analyzed the census said Democrats had reason for concern, but added that some shifts could also harm Republicans. Over all, fewer blacks now live in Michigan. Among the other groups shrinking in numbers are whites, blue-collar residents and younger people.

“It’s true that there aren’t as many base voters to work with,” said Jill Alper, a Democratic strategist in Michigan, who has advised state and presidential campaigns. “But the independent voter pool is big enough and there are many friendly voters within it who are up for grabs.”

The White House is aware of its challenges. Vice President has visited six times, including two stops this week. And for months now, the re-election campaign has been reactivating its old network. The other night, Barbara Williamson, a retired teacher, made calls in her living room. A large plate of sat untouched, with only one other volunteer on hand.

“It’s going to be a very close election,” she said. “Republicans want him to be a one-termer.”
563 2011-10-14 Zuccotti Park, the half-acre plaza in Lower Manhattan now synonymous with Occupy Wall Street, exists in a strange category of New York parkland, identified by a seeming oxymoron: a privately owned public space.

The park was established in a wave of development that spurred corporate plazas after changes were made to the city’s zoning laws in the early 1960s. The laws generally give real estate developers zoning concessions in exchange for public space. There are now at least 520 such parks, arcades and plazas in New York City, both indoors and out, providing a total of 3.5 million square feet of space.

Zuccotti is unusual in that it does not adjoin the 54-story office tower, 1 Liberty Plaza, that spawned it. Rather, it is bounded on all four sides by streets: Broadway, Trinity Place, and Cedar and Liberty Streets.

And while the developer did not win the right to build a larger structure in exchange for the park, it was given leeway on certain height and setback restrictions, according to Jerold S. Kayden, a lawyer and professor of urban planning and design at Harvard University.

Perhaps most important, from the perspective of a long-term protest like Occupy Wall Street, Zuccotti Park — unlike city-owned parks — is open 24 hours a day. Private parks and plazas that were developed under the original zoning rules governing them are generally open around the clock, while those created under more recent rules may close from dusk to dawn. About half of the privately owned plazas are required to be open 24 hours a day, according to the Department of City Planning.
564 2011-10-14 These are bad times for record shops, but apparently boom times for regret over their demise; if anything it has almost become a cliché. The excellent recent low-budget documentary “Sound It Out” tracked the challenges that one British store owner faces to stay open. Now “Happy Life,” a no-budget feature set in the debris-ridden precincts of the East Village and Brooklyn, depicts a similar struggle.

Written and directed by Michael M. Bilandic and with the imprimatur of Abel Ferrara (“Bad Lieutenant,” “Go Go Tales”) as the executive producer, this film introduces us to Keith (Tom McCaffrey), an aficionado and purveyor of trance and techno music, both in the shows he D.J.s and the tiny vinyl shop he runs. Barely getting by, Keith loses his weekly gig and is already three months behind on his store’s rent. He figures his best chance to raise money and save the shop is an old-school rave. Only, as the story unspools, that’s not so easy to do either.

Keith is intriguing — he has his own standards about music and other life-defining issues — but neither Mr. Bilandic nor Mr. McCaffrey develop the character beyond the stereotypical mid-30s stoner. Most of the acting is weak — the single compelling scene focuses on D.J. Liquidz (Gilles Decamps), a onetime superstar spinner Keith seeks out on skid row to headline the rave — and the direction is woozy or absent. The movie’s dreadful interior lighting might be passed off as atmospheric or a victim of financing, but it mainly makes for difficult viewing.

Still, the film advances the “let’s put on a show” genre into a grim and hopeless direction, just right for hard times. In different hands “Happy Life” might become a decent movie. Maybe it’s best thought of as a demo.

Written and directed by Michael M. Bilandic; director of photography, Sean Price Williams; edited by Joseph Saito; music by Hot Hero and Da Vinci Boi; production design by Matt Walker; costumes by Linnea Vedder Shults and Meg Browning; produced by Mr. Bilandic, Rachel Fernandes and Spencer Kiernan. At the reRun Gastropub Theater, 147 Front Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn. Running time: 1 hour 13 minutes. This film is not rated.
565 2011-10-14 In the addled mind of the home-invasion thriller “Trespass” are a few half-baked notions about class warfare in America. Kyle Miller (Nicolas Cage), a loudmouthed wheeler-dealer whose glamorous house is taken over by thieves disguised as policemen, is a shady, fast-talking diamond trader up to his bulging eyeballs in debt. So much for privilege.

The invaders are a band of ragtag blue-collar types who refuse to believe Kyle when he insists he isn’t rolling in it. The other Millers include Kyle’s gorgeous, neglected wife, Sarah (Nicole Kidman), and their spoiled teenage daughter, Avery (Liana Liberato, a dead ringer for the vacuous Ashley Holmes from “The Real Housewives of New Jersey”).

At first “Trespass,” directed by Joel Schumacher from a screenplay by Karl Gajdusek, appears to have borrowed its story from “Kidnapped,” a recent, far superior Spanish horror film about an affluent family’s home-invasion nightmare in their fancy new house outside Madrid. But as “Trespass” develops, its greedy, calculating paterfamilias responds to the intruders’ murder threats by trying to bluff his way out of trouble using the same kind of deal-making fast-talk he is heard spouting to a client in the movie’s opening scene.

Before long you have the queasy feeling that Kyle is all too willing to sacrifice the lives of his wife and daughter (not to mention his own) to keep the thieves from grabbing whatever is stored in the wall safe whose combination he refuses to divulge. As Kyle, Mr. Cage gives one of his more demented performances. Not far into the movie you wish that he would just shut up or that the thieves would stuff a gag in his mouth and get on with their work. Of course, if they did there would be no movie.

And so “Trespass” becomes a belabored, often laughable melee of sound, fury and unnecessarily frenzied cinematography in which everyone yells, screams and threatens while any sense of dread quickly drains away. The whole thing often plays like an unintentional farce. In the funniest laugh-out-loud moment, a bloodied Kyle shouts to his wife, “Your filthy lust invited them in.”
566 2011-10-14 If so, you’d be puzzled by this hit-or-miss collection of mostly lightweight, pop-flavored entertainment. Even on its best day PBS isn’t exactly cutting edge. But it’s a long way from the full Metropolitan Opera productions or New York Philharmonic concerts that the network regularly broadcasts to this: Andrea Bocelli in Central Park, Steve Martin strumming the banjo in North Carolina , “Il Postino,” “The Little Mermaid.”

Granted, “The Little Mermaid” is the ballet, performed by San Francisco Ballet, and “Il Postino” is the opera, performed by Los Angeles Opera, And both are also Part of “Great Performances.” Other classical-ish productions include the series opener, “H.M.S. Pinafore” by the Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis, and a program of Balanchine and Twyla Tharp by the Miami City Ballet. Still, the lineup gives the impression of a high-class variation on the music specials that are ubiquitous at pledge-drive time.

The only program that might not be a guaranteed crowd pleaser is the documentary “Bill T. Jones: A Good Man” on Nov. 11, about the staging in Chicago of his dance-theater piece for the Abraham Lincoln bicentennial. (It will, however, make the crowd pleased about itself for watching.) Rounding out the bill are “Women Who Rock,” based on an exhibition at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in Cleveland, and the Cameron Crowe documentary “Pearl Jam Twenty.”

In a video at pbs . org and an interview with The New York Times, Paula Kerger, the president of PBS, has emphasized the regional nature of the series: each of the films highlights a different city, and in the original lineup, none featured New York or any other Northeastern locale. (When a Tommy Tune revue in Galveston, Tex., had to be dropped, the Bocelli concert in New York was added.)

Combined with the easy accessibility of the programs, this focus on spreading the wealth brings to mind several possible agendas for the festival that don’t have anything directly to do with promoting the arts.

One might be appeasing member stations that resent the attention given to programming from the two Northeastern behemoths, WNET in New York and WGBH in Boston. Another might be to cast a wider and warmer fund-raising net. And along those lines, it probably can’t hurt if the current group of legislators voting on appropriations for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting sees something that turns away from New York and Massachusetts and toward Florida, Illinois, Minnesota, North Carolina and Ohio.

It’s likely that most potential donors or voters will find nothing to challenge or offend them in “H.M.S. Pinafore” on Friday night, though perhaps they should. Directed by Joe Dowling, the Guthrie’s artistic director, this is Gilbert and Sullivan for people who don’t like operetta but respond to frantic mugging, slapstick, pelvic thrusts, phallic cannon and tap dancing.

The playwright Jeffrey Hatcher has massaged the libretto and written “additional material,” most prominently an entire scene featuring Queen Victoria, with lyrics that include: “There is none that is finer/And she’s the one/That we call Regina.” The goal, sadly unattained, appears to have been something along the lines of “Monty Python’s ‘Pinafore.’  ”

The funny thing is that with its Broadway-style choreography (by David Bolger) and its disco and rock-opera orchestrations (by Andrew Cooke), the show strongly resembles a musical trying out for New York. (Queen Victoria even makes a joke about taking a wrong turn at Peoria.) If it makes it, it will probably have become a better show — maybe good enough for “Live From Lincoln Center.”

Produced by TPT National Productions. Directed for the stage by Joe Dowling; directed for broadcast by Michael Beyer; Andrew Cooke, music director; David Bolger, choreographer; Frank Hallinan Flood, set designer; Fabio Toblini, costume designer; Rainn Wilson, host.
567 2011-10-14 Exhibitions juxtaposing art, artifacts, decorative objects and ephemera are in vogue, and more power to them. That the independent curator Todd Levin has contributed to their rise is confirmed by his latest effort, “Night Scented Stock,” a selective overview of 500 years of grotesque and phantasmagoric art, its discontents and occasional dissenters. Named for a sweet-smelling nocturnal flowering plant, it starts with prints by Hans Baldung Grien and Albrecht Dürer, includes the efforts of some 80 artists and has a perfect setting in the rather dainty 19th-century town house that is this Chelsea gallery’s uptown redoubt. It confirms once more that Surrealism, far from being a 20th-century phenomenon, has ever been with us.

Mr. Levin’s trove is rife with artworks and related objects you might not want to meet in a dark alley, many of which may never look better. He has installed his selections with flair and a fair amount of draped fabric; don’t miss the wonderful 1938 Magritte hanging on red brocade and visible in a mirror. There are photographs by Charles Dodgson (Lewis Carroll), Matthew Barney and Joel-Peter Witkin, and a string of works by various actual and latter-day Surrealists, among them Leonora Carrington, Unica Zurn, Dorothea Tanning, Leonor Fini, Maya Deren, Colette (the artist), Michele Oka Doner and H. R. Giger. Joseph Cornell is represented by an ink-blot drawing that could be by Bruce Conner, Weegee by a distorted photograph of a nude that evokes Louise Bourgeois (who is also on hand). The painter Anj Smith seems to have something small and vividly weird for every occasion.

The show mutates from claustrophobic wunderkammer, or cabinet of curiosities, density on the first floor to near nothingness upstairs, where relatively cheerful, sometimes abstract works by Steve Wheeler, Jonathan Lasker and Louise Despont await. Mr. Levin may run slightly out of steam, but the breathing room is welcome.
568 2011-10-14 The selling of breeding bulls abroad is a side of the cattle business known broadly as genetics exports.

“They have a lot of grass and they want to turn that into protein,” Mr. Brownback said. Accompanied by Kansas ranchers who produce so-called feed stock, or purebred bulls for other cattle farmers, the governor is visiting Russia and Kazakhstan this month. “They want to find the right genetics.”

Russian officials, including the minister of agriculture, he said, are not interested in raising beef import quotas, but are receptive to buying American breeding cattle. “They are taking oil money and putting it into their herd,” he said.

The international breeding business is not usually so old school. Modern ranchers often export embryos, for example, which are cheaper to ship. But in a situation where a customer wants to increase a herd quickly, as in Russia, nothing beats a bull.

“Bulls can impregnate many cows right away,” Mr. Stevenson said.

The Russians want to diminish their reliance on imported beef from Brazil and Australia. But they are having trouble doing it without outside help because, after the Soviet Union’s collapse, collective farmers here culled cattle for a quick payout, leaving the herds depleted.

Russia now has a total herd of about 26.9 million cattle, according to a report by the United States Department of Agriculture — compared with an American herd of about 92.6 million.

American cowboys export breeding bulls when they are about 12 months old. A good stud bull can have a five- or six-year career, said Mr. Stevenson, whose Montana ranch holds auctions twice a year, streaming live video of the calves on the Internet.

Commercial breeders have perfected what Mr. Stevenson called predictability, providing potential buyers with precise spreadsheets of the characteristics to expect from the bulls’ offspring, whether the weight at birth, the degree of back fat or the marbling in the eventual steaks.

The same bulls that Mr. Stevenson could sell back home for $4,000 a head can fetch about $8,000 in cattle-deprived Russia, he said. Those prices are why, with a Russian partner, he has opened a breeding ranch south of Moscow, called Stevenson-Sputnik, which he seeded by importing 1,400 pregnant cows from Montana.

“You want to see odd looks, go bowling through a Russian village on a horse with a hat on, and listen to the hooting and hollering and watch them point with their pitchforks,” the Stetson-wearing Mr. Stevenson said of life in Russian cattle land.

Another legacy of ranching, Soviet-style, was to raise dual-purpose beef and dairy cattle, which is not as efficient as raising pure beef breeds. Many Russian collective farms still have such animals, and Stevenson-Sputnik’s aim is to sell Angus stud bulls to bred with dual-purpose cows, with the goal of skewing the progeny toward all-beef over several generations.

Steve Irsik, a cattle rancher from Ingalls, Kan., who was on the delegation, said he too was interested in shipping live cattle to Russia, but would try a different approach than Mr. Stevenson’s. Russians should import purebred Angus and Hereford, and cross the two for commercial beef, he said.

The problem with interbreeding Angus stud bulls with Russian cows is “it’s not clear what you’ll get,” Mr. Irsik said. “It’s like breeding a football player with a ballerina.”
569 2011-10-14 The rings generally seek federal aid for “straw students” who have no intention of pursuing an education — or, as in Ms. Owens’s scheme, are unaware of the application. The aid is sent to the college, which takes the portion covering the initial tuition and fees, and then “refunds” the excess to the student to cover other expenses like books, transportation and room and board.

Some rings involve vast cadres of foot soldiers, many of them lacking a high school diploma, recruited with the understanding that they will keep a portion of the aid money and kick back the rest to the ringleader.

Until 2005, colleges could not participate in federal aid programs if more than half their students were enrolled in what were then known as “correspondence” or “telecommunications” courses. For online courses — but not correspondence courses — the 50 percent rule was eliminated in 2005.

By now, the vast majority of colleges and universities offer online courses, and some huge commercial institutions have hundreds of thousands of online students. Amid tough economic times, an increasing number of these students are actually what are known as “Pell-runners” — people who disappear as soon as they receive the proceeds of their Pell grants or student loans.

Kathleen S. Tighe, the inspector general, suggested that colleges clamp down on identity verification, and that Congress and the Education Department rethink whether online students, mostly working adults, should be eligible for the same federal aid to cover living expenses as students who attend on-campus programs.

“Without that money there would be significantly less incentive for this particular scam,” Ms. Tighe noted. “We’ll do the best we can with our resources to investigate the allegations we receive, but there are actions that can be taken to help reduce the appeal of this quick-cash-for-little-effort scam.”

Community colleges have been especially vulnerable to fraud rings, because of their open enrollment and low tuition, which leaves room for substantial excess aid. At Rio Salado College, an online community college in Arizona, 64 people were convicted in a $538,000 scheme that unraveled after an employee in Rio Salado’s financial aid office noticed similar handwriting on several applications. The ringleader, Trenda Halton, a student who pleaded guilty last year, worked with several accomplices who recruited “straw students” to apply for Pell grants and loans. Ms. Halton signed into their online classes to meet Rio Salado’s attendance requirements, then took a cut of $500 to $1,000 once the aid money came through.

Pursuing so many people in an individual ring is rare, though.

“It is unlikely that such a robust effort to prosecute all participants in such a large investigation will be repeated in the future,” said the inspector general’s report. In a similar case two years ago, American River College, a community college in Sacramento, found dozens of people with the same address enrolled in the same courses, all of them then withdrawing or failing. The ringleader pleaded guilty to fraudulently applying for federal financial aid for more than 60 people, and, in May, was sentenced to 5 years and 10 months in prison, and ordered to pay $234,515.

The biggest fraud, along with the most significant efforts to combat it, seems to have occurred at Axia College, a two-year program of the University of Phoenix, the nation’s largest for-profit institution. Officials there have identified — and referred to the inspector general — some 750 rings involving 15,000 people.

Axia, which enrolls about 150,000 students, and the University of Phoenix’s parent company, the Apollo Group, have four employees working full time to identify fraud and expose Pell-runners. “We have been able to construct a pretty thick net that is very difficult for these criminals to penetrate,” said James Berg, the Apollo Group’s chief ethics and compliance officer.

Apollo monitors and records the vast majority of calls from potential students, he said, and has what he called an “intense identity verification process” if any red flags are raised. The company is also on the lookout for multiple applications from the same computer network address, often a tip-off to a fraud ring.

Last year, Apollo introduced a required three-week orientation in hopes of weeding out students likely to drop out. Axia’s new enrollment has since dropped by about half; Mr. Berg said the orientation had also cut down sharply on fraud.

“Fraud ringleaders, operating on behalf of several students, have to maintain the appearance that they’re all participating in orientation, and that’s just too much work for the ringleader,” Mr. Berg said. “We’ve heard back from ringleaders that the University of Phoenix is making it too difficult for us. And since the beginning of 2011, on a monthly basis, we have seen a decrease in the number of fraud rings we are flagging. I think with all the cases we’ve referred to law enforcement, word has gotten out that this is not a smart thing to try here.”
570 2011-10-14 MOSCOW — Ukraine’s domestic intelligence service said Thursday that it had opened a new criminal case against the country’s former prime minister, Yulia V. Tymoshenko, less than 48 hours after she was sentenced to seven years in prison in a trial that was widely believed to be politically motivated.

The new charges come amid broad international condemnation over the persecution of Ms. Tymoshenko, and they are likely to darken hopes among her supporters that she could soon be released from prison.

Ms. Tymoshenko stands accused under the new charges of reassigning $405 million in debt owed by a private energy company she headed in the 1990s to Ukraine’s federal budget, Ivan Derevyanko, the head of the intelligence service, told reporters, according to the Interfax news agency.

Investigators have also opened a case on the same charges against Pavlo Lazarenko, who was prime minister of Ukraine in the early 1990s and a mentor to Ms. Tymoshenko. He is serving a nine-year prison sentence in the United States for money laundering and other financial crimes.

Ms. Tymoshenko’s business activities in the 1990s have come under scrutiny before. In an era of no-holds-barred capitalism, she earned the unofficial title of Ukraine’s “gas princess” for the dominant role she played in the country’s energy sector.

She was arrested and briefly jailed 10 years ago on corruption charges from her time as president of United Energy Systems of Ukraine, a company involved in the lucrative and often nefarious business of selling Russian natural gas to Ukraine. She also faced similar corruption charges in Russia. The charges were later dropped.
571 2011-10-14 SYDNEY — Prime Minister Julia Gillard of Australia announced Thursday that she was abandoning her government’s controversial plans to ship asylum seekers to Malaysia as part of a refugee swap deal — a humiliating about-face for the beleaguered leader that leaves her immigration policy in turmoil.

The government said it would now process asylum seekers on Australian soil.

Australia’s highest court had already struck down the deal, under which 800 migrants who had arrived in Australia by boat would have been sent to Malaysia, where their refugee claims would have been processed by the United Nations. The court ruled the deal invalid because Malaysia was not party to the U.N. refugee convention.

Meanwhile, the Australian government had already begun implementing its part of that deal, under which 4,000 refugees who had already been certified by the United Nations in Malaysia would be resettled in Australia.

But Ms. Gillard had been seeking to amend existing immigration law to allow the deal to proceed, a plan she said she was abandoning after it became clear that the votes to push the deal through the country’s deeply divided Parliament were not there. Her Labor Party heads a minority government that relies on support from three independent legislators and one legislator from the Greens party. The Greens have always been opposed to the deal, however, and the government was unable to swing any opposition legislators to the cause.

“We are not in a position to implement the arrangement with Malaysia,” Ms. Gillard said in the capital, Canberra. “It is apparent the legislation will not pass the Parliament.”
572 2011-10-14 “Best time, best place,” said Dave Lynch, 21, a college student from New Jersey who was fishing next to Mr. Adili and was energized by the 10 stripers he had already caught on this trip. “We come for the thrill and the challenge — stripers aren’t easy fish to catch.”

As Mr. Lynch spoke, areas of water offshore were churning with fish. These are known as blitzes. Bass gorging on the bait fish at the surface roil the waters, and the gulls and terns carry out a simultaneous air assault, diving on the scraps. The feeding binge sets off corresponding chaos onshore, with surf-casters sprinting to the closest point from which to cast their hooks into the frenzy.

This action is what lures the fishermen to Montauk after the summer crowds have gone. The fish hunters arrive in trucks and campers and stake out spots on beaches and in shorefront parking lots. They are people like Rob Mazzei, 45, of Tennessee, who is in his second month living in an aging camper mounted on his pickup truck parked in the lighthouse lot, sleeping during the day and fishing at night.

“Montauk is ground zero if you’re a surf-caster,” said Mr. Mazzei, a former New York City police officer. “You have people from all over the country fishing here now. We have a couple from England that flies over every year.”

The lighthouse is the most popular place to fish in Montauk. For one thing, it is at the very tip of the South Fork of Long Island, where the bait fish spill from waterways to the north and east, and are swept across the point, magnets for hungry fish. The lighthouse parking lot becomes a fish camp, packed with avid anglers staying in large recreational vehicles and small vans. Scores more set up on nearby beaches.

Greg Fellini, 35, a metalworker from Bayonne, N.J., waded into the ocean to swim toward the fish he was hunting. Just off the lighthouse, pole in hand, he was slammed by wave after wave. Washed in the surf and dragged over rocks, he still managed to keep his rod aloft all the while, casting out and reeling in. Mr. Fellini wore a rugged wetsuit made for kayakers that does not tear on the rocks. He said he had had some scary moments being dragged by currents, but nothing that would make him give up the hunt.

“You have world-famous fishermen here, so you got to go all out if you want to hold your own,” he said, smoking a half-soggy cigarette afterward on the shore. The thrill comes from outsmarting the bass and finally experiencing that adrenaline-pumping moment when the striper hits your lure — “It’s like an explosion!” Mr. Fellini said — and you pull in your trophy fish, the one that gets your photograph published in the fishing magazines and on Web sites.

“To get on the tackle-shop wall, you got to catch a 40-pounder,” Mr. Fellini said, hustling along to the next spot. It was noon now, and the bait was being chased toward the shore by the stripers, which in turn were being chased by a flotilla of more than 100 boats.

“In a boat, it’s easy,” Mr. Fellini said. “You see the fish, and you steer right over them and drop your line in, and you got a fish.”

Likewise, any novice surf-caster can haul in a fish when they are blitzing near the shore. But it takes skill to find and hook one when the mass feeding subsides. Seasoned fishermen, called sharpies, know the local waters and conditions and can calculate the confluence of tide, wind, current and feeding habits.

They prefer sundown and the first light of the morning, and also the “top of the tide,” the incoming peak.

Hard-core fishermen wait for nighttime and go out with a miner’s light strapped to their heads. They may seek out a rock jutting up from the shallows and then scramble up, standing just high enough so that the waves do not knock them off.

They use a 10-foot rod that can send a lure singing far out into the surf and carry a shoulder bag full of lures. They picks one that simulates the type of bait the fish are feeding on at that moment.

Mr. Lynch was using a narrow yellow lure known as a pencil popper, and he hooked into a striper that weighed about 33 pounds. Since he had caught 10 already in two days, by his count, he donated this one to Mr. Adili, who was fishing next to him.

Mr. Adili, who owns a heating and air-conditioning installation company, saw a fisherman hurtling across the rocks toward the beach to the west of the lighthouse. And then there was another. Suddenly, all the fishermen — and they were all men in the group that day — began reeling in their lines and grabbing their bags and hustling down to the beach where you could see the silhouettes of the anglers hooking into fish, their rods bent hard toward the water.

The blitz was on, and the men waded out chest-deep to get closer.

Ricardo Gonzalez, a 36-year-old handyman from Huntington, on Long Island, hooked something. It swam toward the rocks as if it knew it could snag his line and gain freedom. This was too much of a fighter to be a striper. Sure enough, when Mr. Gonzalez pulled it flapping onto the beach, it was a bluefish, a 20-pounder. Mr. Gonzalez freed his hook and quickly cast out again.

Two snorkelers out in the ocean also made quick work of the fish. One, Anthony Dooley, 31, dived to the bottom when he saw the bait coming toward him. He lay on the ocean floor, 20 feet down, and watched a school of stripers he could not see the end of. He took aim at the biggest one and fired, the thick rubber bands on his gun slinging the spear into it. Dying, the 35-pounder exacted its revenge, gashing a chunk of flesh from Mr. Dooley’s hand as he removed the spear. Then Mr. Dooley’s dive partner emerged from the water with two nice-size stripers, which he said he speared with a single shot.

After the blitz a group of fishermen sat together for dinner in the parking lot, behind their campers. There was the usual moaning about the novice fishermen, often nicknamed googans, and the ones who ignore fishing etiquette and insist on casting their lines across others’.

During the day the men dozed, with one doing periodic checks on the water. When the blitz hit, word rippled through the parking lot, and it instantly erupted in a clamor of suiting up and a clatter of spikes on the pavement as the fisherman raced to the shore.

Behind Mr. Mazzei’s camper, Justin Cassar, 31, stripped off his waders and showed off a scraped-up part of his hand near his thumb.

“This is bass rash,” he said. “This is from grabbing the bass through the mouth enough times.” Mr. Cassar, an auto-body repairman from Rocky Point, also on Long Island, bow hunts deer, as well, and he brought out some marinated venison and put it on the grill.

He and the other fishermen would eat and then nap and then head out in the dark to hunt more fish in the waves.

“This is what we live for,” Mr. Cassar said. “We’re living the dream, out here. Living the dream.”
573 2011-10-14 9:14 p.m. | Updated      The fallen hedge fund billionaire Raj Rajaratnam received the longest prison sentence ever for insider trading on Thursday, capping an aggressive government campaign that has ensnared dozens and may help deter the illegal ...
574 2011-10-14 8:57 p.m. | Updated      Despite a paper gain that helped lift earnings by nearly $2 billion, JPMorgan Chase & Company reported on Thursday that profit fell 4 percent in the third quarter amid lingering mortgage troubles and weak investment bankin...
575 2011-10-14 KIZILAY--Dogan, MD SUNY Downstate Medical Center mourns the passing of Dr. Dogan Kizilay, clinical assistant professor of radiology. He was widely respected for his comprehensive knowledge of diagnostic radiology and skill as an angiographer. We e...
576 2011-10-14 2:01 p.m. | Updated Once a Netflix skeptic, Time Warner has struck its biggest deal yet to allow the online service to license its television content.     On Thursday, the Warner Brothers Television Group of Time Warner and the CBS Corporation ann...
577 2011-10-15 The failures that kept Boston out of the postseason may baffle sabermetricians but illustrate the importance of shared commitment to a common goal....
578 2011-10-15 The failures that kept Boston out of the postseason may baffle sabermetricians but illustrate the importance of shared commitment to a common goal....
579 2011-10-15 We’ll be live-blogging all day, with on-site feeds from Oklahoma State-Texas and Michigan-Michigan State....
580 2011-10-15 Joe Drape and Zach Hillesland will be live-blogging all day on Saturday, with on-site feeds from Pete Thamel at Oklahoma State-Texas and Pete Bigelow at Michigan-Michigan State....
581 2011-10-15 The New York State Board of Regents will decide Monday whether to bar teachers from grading their own students’ standardized tests, a longstanding practice that state officials say creates a temptation for educators to cheat in an era of high-stakes exams.

The ban, which would start in the 2012-13 school year, would require districts to score tests in other schools, on computers or in regional centers. The change would most likely cause Regents exams, now held just before graduation, to be held earlier in the spring and could lead to additional costs for districts.

The state is in the process of introducing a new evaluation system that judges teachers in part on how well their students do on standardized tests. These rising stakes are behind the state’s push for better test security, as is an acknowledgment by state officials that they have not done enough to detect or prevent cheating.

The Regents and the State Education Department “are committed to putting in place a system that ensures the integrity of our state assessment system,” said John B. King Jr., the state education commissioner, in a call with reporters on Friday.

The ban was one of several recommendations made by Dr. King and a group of state officials in a memo released Friday. The board will also vote Monday on whether to request $2.1 million from Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and the State Legislature to improve test security this school year. That would include $1 million for erasure analysis to check 10 percent of tests this spring for signs of cheating.

An independent investigator will be named in the next several weeks to analyze how the state handles cheating complaints, the memo said. But officials did not for now recommend grading all state tests in a single location, saying it would cost $10 million to $12 million annually. It also did not advise barring teachers from proctoring their own students’ exams.
582 2011-10-15 The State Department so far has sent 14 unarmed civilian contractors, many with military experience, to be part of teams led by Libya’s Transitional National Council, according to David I. McKeeby, a department spokesman. Mr. McKeeby said that an additional two to three dozen contractors would join the effort over the coming weeks.

The teams have surveyed and secured 20 of the former government’s 36 known ammunition depots, encompassing several hundred bunkers at each site, and have destroyed or disabled hundreds of the shoulder-fired missiles, he said. The deployment of the American contractors was reported on Friday by The Washington Post.

Though Western officials said they had asked rebel officials to secure Libya’s vast arsenal, there was little evidence on the ground of that effort.  For months during the conflict, the capture of towns and cities was quickly followed by a familiar routine, in which rebel fighters — along with most anyone who showed up — converged on abandoned arsenals and emptied their stores.

After the initial looting, many depots remained unguarded or tended only occasionally for months.

Some depots appeared to have been bombed by NATO, but in many cases the airstrikes failed to destroy all of the weapons. In June, when rebel fighters reached an enormous depot in the mountains, they found many bunkers destroyed but also several full of weapons, including SA-7 components and antitank weapons. Several days later, the rebels said NATO planes had returned to bomb the depot again.

More than two weeks later, there was evidence that more SA-7 missiles had been taken from the site, called El-Ga’a.

In some cases, the arms depots were well hidden. As the rebels rushed toward Tripoli in late August, they stormed the base of the notorious Khamis Brigade. The base had been partly bombed by NATO, but many of the weapons stores appeared to be undamaged.

Down the street there was a warehouse full of arms, including SA-7s that were removed by the truckload, in a building that appeared to have been a cannery.
583 2011-10-15 Germans are particularly sensitive to questions of privacy and data collection as a result of their experiences under the Nazi dictatorship, where personal details could be a matter of life and death. As a result, the country has some of the strongest data protection laws in the world, elevating an individual’s right to privacy above any perceived public right to know.

“Now Germans are beginning to recognize that this is a core problem of all people,” said Bernd Schlömer, the vice chairman of Germany’s Pirate Party, a new party that recently won 8.9 percent of the vote in Berlin’s state elections and emphasizes Internet freedom and online privacy issues. He compared the awakening toward the significance of online privacy to the growing awareness of environmental problems in the 1960s and ’70s.

In 2007, Germany’s Interior Ministry announced that it had developed software that could scan the hard drives of terrorism suspects. The Federal Constitutional Court responded the next year with a ruling that limited such incursions and guaranteed “confidentiality and integrity in information technology systems.”

Federal investigators said that they were not using this software, but several states, including Lower Saxony and Baden-Württemberg admitted that they had employed it.

“In essence it is about how we fight crime in a digital age,” said Dieter Wiefelspütz, an expert on domestic security with the left-leaning Social Democrats. Far-reaching computer surveillance “shouldn’t be used for car thieves but instead for the most serious crimes. That has to be considered in the laws,” he said.

Officials in Bavaria have said they had used the spying software to monitor suspects’ e-mails and phone calls over the Internet and have captured tens of thousands of screenshots in cases involving theft, fraud and illegal performance-enhancing drugs.

Officials have denied employing the software’s capability of seizing control of computers’ cameras and microphones, technology that evokes action films.

The debate in Germany is evidence of the degree to which technology has permeated everyday lives, where friendships are made and nurtured on social-networking sites, and photographs and diaries are stored on hard drives. Privacy advocates argue that the difference between what authorities can glean from a telephone conversation and what can be discovered on a computer is as broad as the distance between what one says out loud and what one is thinking to oneself.

“Our private data are our stored thoughts,” Mr. Schlömer said.

Security experts say the German debate over police surveillance of computers and the demands for legislation restricting the practice will increasingly be necessary across the globe as the kinds of communication captured through wiretaps shift more and more to encrypted programs like Skype.

But the software discovered by the hacker group, dubbed “State Trojan” or “R2D2,” after a line of code including the Star Wars robot’s name, can do more than eavesdrop on phone calls. It was the ability to remotely control computers that led to charges from leading politicians that the state had crossed into Orwellian territory.

“People have some idea of the risks they face online from criminals,” said Mikko H. Hypponen, the chief research officer at F-Secure Corporation, an Internet security firm based in Helsinki, Finland. “I don’t think they really know exactly the same methods are used against them by governments, that Germany, France, the United States could be doing this.”

Analysts, as well as the hackers who discovered the software, said the programming was amateurish. “We were surprised by how bad the quality of the code was,” said Frank Rieger, a spokesman for the Chaos Computer Club. A team of about 10 people analyzed the software for the group before they announced the results.

The hackers said that the program also left the computers open to further malicious attacks, the equivalent of the police’s leaving the back door of a house open after searching it.

Still, the program falls short of what the most sophisticated hackers, organized criminals and other thieves of credit card and banking information have at their disposal.
584 2011-10-15 Lawyers for the State of Pennsylvania and for Harrisburg’s mayor have asked a federal judge to throw out the bankruptcy petition filed for the city this week after the City Council voted for it. The state’s lawyer said a state law expressly forbids it, while a lawyer for Harrisburg said the council majority and the lawyer it hired did not have the authority to file for bankruptcy. Judge Mary D. France of the United States Bankruptcy Court scheduled a conference on the matter for Monday. The council majority and Mayor Linda Thompson have clashed over a recovery plan developed with state officials, prompting state lawmakers to push a bill that would instead let the governor declare a fiscal emergency and install someone to make spending decisions. That measure, supported by Gov. Tom Corbett, has passed the House and is expected to be taken up by the Senate next week.
585 2011-10-15 Credit: J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times
586 2011-10-15 He added that he was disappointed that members of Congress from New York, especially Senator Charles E. Schumer and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, had not come out swinging for an industry that donates heavily to their campaigns. “They need to understand who their constituency is,” he said.

Generally, bankers dismiss the protesters as gullible and unsophisticated. Not many are willing to say this out loud, for fear of drawing public ire — or the masses to their doorsteps. “Anybody who dismisses them publicly is putting a bull’s-eye on their back,” the hedge fund manager said.

John Paulson, the hedge fund titan who made billions in the financial crisis by betting against the subprime mortgage market, has been the exception. His Upper East Side home was picketed by demonstrators earlier this week, but Mr. Paulson offered a full-throated defense of the Street, even going so far as to defend the tiny sliver of top earners attacked by the Occupy Wall Street protesters — whose signs refer to themselves as “the other 99 percent.”

“The top 1 percent of New Yorkers pay over 40 percent of all income taxes, providing huge benefits to everyone in our city and state,” he said in a statement. “Paulson & Company and its employees have paid hundreds of millions in New York City and New York State taxes in recent years and have created over 100 high-paying jobs in New York City since its formation.”

The messages coming from the protesters are by no means in accord. They have myriad grievances, though many see Wall Street as the most powerful symbol of the income inequality and “economic injustice” they are railing against. There is ample indignation over banks being bailed out while their customers are being foreclosed upon, and over banks handing out hefty bonus checks and severance packages so soon after the crisis erupted.

Similarly, executives keep getting generous payouts when they leave. Just last week, Bank of America disclosed it was paying a total of $11 million in severance to two executives forced out in a management reshuffle, Sallie Krawcheck and Joe Price, even as the company said it would begin laying off roughly 30,000 employees over the next few years.

“Wall Street continues to underestimate the degree of anger among citizens and voters,” said Douglas J. Elliott, a former investment banker who is now a fellow at the Brookings Institution. For the most part, bankers say that they see the protests as a reaction to the high unemployment and slow growth that has plagued the American economy since the recession and the financial crisis of 2008. Despite all the placards and chants plainly indicating otherwise, some bankers suggest that deep down, the protesters are not really all that mad at them.

“I don’t think we see ourselves as the target,” said Steve Bartlett, president of the Financial Services Roundtable, which represents the nation’s biggest banks and insurers in Washington. “I think they’re protesting about the economy. What’s lost is that the financial services sector has to be well capitalized and well financed for the economy to recover.”

Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase & Company, typifies the conflicting messages coming from Wall Street. In a conference call with reporters after third-quarter earnings were announced Thursday, he struck a sympathetic note. “I do vaguely remember the First Amendment that it is legal to demonstrate and it is completely fine,” he said. “You should listen and not just have a knee-jerk reaction.”

But in a later conference call with analysts, Mr. Dimon’s remarks were more offhand when asked about the protests and the negative perception of his industry. “Most of our clients like us,” he said. Besides, changing the industry’s image now is a tall order, he told the analysts, before adding, “If you have any great ideas on the phone you guys can write them up and send them to me. We’ll take them into consideration.” Without a coherent message, the crowds will ultimately thin out, Wall Street types insist — especially when the weather turns colder. They see the protesters as an entertaining sideshow, little more than flash mobs of slackers, seeking to lock arms with Kanye West or get a whiff of the antiestablishment politics that defined their parents’ generation.

“There is a view that it will be a lot of sound and fury signifying nothing,” said one financial industry official.

Most bankers were far more concerned this week about the business impact of the new Volcker Rule restrictions on speculative trading than they were about the demonstrations, this official added.

A smaller group of bank executives are taking the protests more seriously. They see them as a sign of the growing economic divide in this country — and are even monitoring the latest developments on Twitter. While peaceful so far, the demonstrations at Bank of America, Chase and Wells Fargo branches from San Francisco to Peoria are eerily similar to those routinely seen at Citibank outposts in Athens, Hong Kong, and in other overseas markets. Some believe it could be years before the swarms of protesters end their marches on bank branches.

A few outspoken members of the financial industry have broken ranks with their more skeptical brethren to say they understand a bit of the outrage of the Occupy Wall Street crowd.

“When I tell people I went down to research the protests, they’re shocked, they literally laugh,” said Michael Mayo, a veteran bank analyst at Crédit Agricole Securities. “It’s just not a location they frequent.”

Citigroup’s chief executive, Vikram S. Pandit, even said he would be happy to talk with the protesters any time they wanted to drop by. Mr. Pandit, onstage Wednesday at a Fortune magazine conference, said that the protesters’ “sentiments were completely understandable.”

“I would also corroborate that trust has been broken between financial institutions and the citizens of the U.S., and that it’s Wall Street’s job to reach out to Main Street and rebuild that trust,” Mr. Pandit said. The protesters should hold Citi and others “accountable for practicing responsible finance,” he said, “and keep asking us about how we’re doing.”
587 2011-10-15 “People don’t understand the horror of what has been going through my mind,” he said in an interview at his home near Tel Aviv after being detained and freed by the police. His brother, Meir, 32, said all five remaining members of the family would leave the country forever after the deal was completed.

“We feel betrayed and we are going back to Holland,” he said.

As the details of the exchange become public, the near universal joy that greeted the original announcement is being tempered with concern. Israel Radio reported that Sergeant Shalit would be handed over to the Red Cross in Gaza on Tuesday, taken from there to Egypt and then flown to a military base in central Israel, where he will be reunited with his family. They will then be flown to their home in the country’s north.

The full list of Palestinians to be released will be posted on an Israeli government Web site by Sunday, although the Justice Ministry’s calls and lists published by Hamas provided some idea of who is on it. About 477 prisoners will be released in the first round, with 550 to follow two months later. Several hundred of those to be released are serving life sentences, and most of them will go either to the Gaza Strip or go into exile to other countries.

Among those is Ahlam Tamimi, a 31-year-old woman who was a key figure in the pizzeria attack. She is often described as the driver of the car that brought the suicide bomber to the Sbarro restaurant and killed 15 people. But the Roths say her role went far beyond that, to the actual planning of the attack.

In interviews from prison, Ms. Tamimi, who was a journalist, has told of having brought the suicide bomber to Jerusalem and then going on Palestinian television’s afternoon broadcast to announce the news of the attack without acknowledging her involvement.

“I’m not sorry for what I did,” she told an Israeli news organization in 2006. “I will get out of prison, and I refuse to recognize Israel’s existence. Discussions will only take place after Israel recognizes that this is Islamic land.”

The Roths said their anger over the prisoner exchange was focused on Ms. Tamimi, who is being sent to Jordan. She is young, fervent and charismatic, Mr. Roth said, and proud of what she did. In a documentary on Palestinian prisoners, she was asked whether she knew how many children had been killed in the attack. She did not. When told the number was eight, she smiled.

The Roths recalled that their daughter, known as Malki, was a dedicated volunteer for disabled children. In her memory they started and still run a foundation that helps families keep their disabled children at home by providing equipment and therapy. About 30 percent of the foundation’s beneficiaries are Israeli Arabs, Mr. Roth said.

“This is not a political issue for us,” he said. “I am not some raving right-winger. We too share the joy of the Shalit family. But the victims are being marginalized. We object on principle. We see ourselves as agents of the children who will be killed by the graduates of this release.”

For the Wachsmans, the return of Sergeant Shalit is especially poignant. Like Sergeant Shalit, their son was a 19-year-old corporal in uniform when he was seized by Hamas militants. But in their case, the Israeli military tried to rescue him six days later and failed, leading to his death.

“It happened 10 minutes from this apartment,” Mrs. Wachsman said. “I heard the helicopters.”

One man being freed next week was the driver in the abduction plot, she said. His parents have been interviewed on television saying that it is about time that he was freed. Mrs. Wachsman did not share that sentiment.

“I wish him nothing but ill for the rest of his life,” she said, her gaze steady.
588 2011-10-15 “There’s been a snowball effect due to the gas companies coming in,” Mr. Diaz, 33, said recently at his bustling empire near here.

But the boom — brought on by an advanced drilling technique called hydraulic fracturing, known as fracking — has brought problems too. While the gas companies have created numerous high-paying drilling jobs, many residents lack the skills for them. Some people’s drinking water has been contaminated. Narrow country roads are crumbling under the weight of heavy trucks. With housing scarce and expensive, more residents are becoming homeless. Local services and infrastructure are strained.

“Very little tax revenue goes to local governments to help them share in the benefits of the economic development,” said Sharon Ward, executive director of the Pennsylvania Budget and Policy Center, an independent policy research organization.

And some are asking whether short-term gains have obscured the long-term view of an industry marked by boom-bust cycles.

“What happens in the long run is the critical question,” said Kathy Braiser, associate professor of rural sociology at Penn State. “How can communities take advantage of the benefits and try to mitigate the negative issues so that they are well-positioned for when this does tail off?”

The boom has been driven by extensive gas reserves in the Marcellus Shale, the vast rock formation under several Middle Atlantic states and concentrated in Pennsylvania. Industry-backed research says that a typical Marcellus well can generate millions of dollars in economic benefits, including wages, taxes and stimulation through the supply chain. (Critics say the amount is exaggerated.)

In Pennsylvania, more than 3,000 wells have been drilled in the past three years and permits for thousands more have been issued. Here in Susquehanna County, a poor rural county of which Montrose is the seat, 262 wells had been drilled by a half-dozen different gas companies as of the end of July; permits have been issued for 400 more.

At this time of year, the roller-coaster hills are blanketed in the oranges of fall. Dotted among them are industrial well sites, typically three to five acres, where drills crank and groan around the clock, glowing at night like spaceship colonies.

For Mr. Diaz and a charmed circle of local winners — water haulers and motel operators, pipeline workers and waitresses, lawyers, surveyors and launderers — the drilling has fueled an economic turnabout.

John and Phyllis DiGiori, who own an alpaca farm, started a food concession truck along the main road. Along with burgers and fries, they now offer warm clothing to workers from Texas and Louisiana. “Ask us about our alpaca socks and more,” says a handwritten sign taped to the service window.

Dan and Gretchen Backer, who oversee 40 rooms in hotels and apartments, including the Inn at Montrose, responded to the boom by renovating their rooms and adding amenities like flat-screen TVs. Now, Ms. Backer said, they have doubled their rates, to $2,500 a month, for a two-bedroom rental.

Bill Kelley Sr., and his son, Bill Jr., have expanded their equipment-rental business, Taylor Rental, and now sell hard-to-find items to the gas companies. The senior Mr. Kelley said it has grown 40 percent in each of the last three years. His wife runs her own bustling business, PJ’s Cafe, a smoky roadhouse where off-shift gas workers congregate.

“We’re not in the recession that the rest of the world is in,” Mr. Kelley said.

Indeed, unemployment in the county was 7.5 percent in August, below the state average of 8.5 percent, and below the national figure of 9.1 percent. Mr. Kelley Sr. likes to repeat a piece of wisdom handed down from the forty-niners: it was not the gold miners in California who got rich, it was the people who sold the shovels.

George Stark, a spokesman for the Cabot Oil and Gas Corporation, the dominant gas company here, said that local entrepreneurs like Mr. Diaz and the Kelleys had created more than 400 industry-related jobs. He said Cabot directly employed about 100 skilled workers on the rigs, but over time local residents would be trained for those jobs.

The company expects to be drilling here for at least two decades, he said, and the wells will be producing gas for three decades after that. “This isn’t a bust-type situation,” he said. “This is probably the sweetest spot in the Marcellus play.”

But the gas influx has put a strain on local services. Cabot recently gave $50,000 to the local Red Cross and has helped a fund-raising drive to build a local hospital. Cabot also spent $12 million last year on road repairs here.

“That is a heck of a lot of money for a county like Susquehanna,” said MaryAnn Warren, a county commissioner. “But Susquehanna is poor, and it doesn’t matter how much gas there is.”

The companies pay certain taxes, but only to the state, not to the counties. And they do not pay any local property tax. Various proposals, including one offered earlier this month by Gov. Tom Corbett, a Republican, would allow counties to impose a tax on the wells and keep most of the money, but there is no agreement on an approach. Pennsylvania is the only major gas-producing state that does not tax gas extraction directly.

Fully half of the work force in Susquehanna County is employed outside its borders, said Timothy W. Kelsey, a professor of agricultural economics at Penn State. He said that was an unusually high percentage, but the county simply did not have enough employers to keep the work force here.

“The folks who have connections are able to get the dollars and they’re doing very, very well,” Professor Kelsey said. “But the majority of spending associated with natural gas isn’t being done in the county.”

There are other strains, some between neighbors, especially those who signed early leases with gas companies that yielded them only $25 an acre while others waited and got more than $5,000 an acre.

And some of it is between local residents and out-of-state workers. “We come up here, the housing is expensive and they raise the rates on us,” grumbled one worker from Louisiana who did not want his name used because of the level of local hostility.

Dee Stephens, 47, a former schoolteacher from Missouri, and one of the rare women who work on the wells, said she did not feel welcomed here.

“Everyone feels threatened,” she said of local residents. “We’re doing a job, but they think we’re tearing up the land.” She said that was not the case. “Obviously we won’t put it back as perfectly as Mother Nature made it, but we’re doing the best we can.”

The successful entrepreneurs are highly conscious of the fragility of the new economy and some are hedging their bets.

“At some point they will finish and go away,” said Ms. Backer, owner of the Inn at Montrose, said of the gas companies.

“We’re taking their advice and trying to pay off our liquid debt that we’ve gotten into,” she said. “But we still get our water tested. We’re all concerned about whether the companies are drilling safely and that our watersheds are safe. We’re not putting our heads in the sand.”
589 2011-10-15 Dutrow’s operation, however, has been losing deep-pocketed owners since February when he was suspended for 90 days in New York after hypodermic needles were found in his barn, and after one of his horses tested positive for a banned painkiller.

In addition to the 10-year ban, the New York Racing and Wagering Board fined Dutrow $50,000.

“He has had to cut his employee payroll by 40 percent,” Koenig said. “His livelihood is very much at risk.”

Dutrow is down to 68 horses, or nearly half as many as he had in 2008 when his horse Big Brown captured the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness Stakes. That season his horses earned more than $12 million in purses, and he finished third in the national training standings.

Dutrow has fallen to 27th in the 2011 national standings with nearly $3 million in earnings and he has lost many of his major-stakes horses because of his troubles in New York and Kentucky, where he has also been denied a license because of his history of rule breaking.

Dutrow, 52, has been cited for nearly 70 violations at 15 racetracks in nine states for infractions that include hiding his horses’ workouts, using powerful painkillers on horses he ultimately sent out to race, lying on his license applications and possessing marijuana.

In the spring, the accomplished sprinter Flashpoint was moved from Dutrow’s barn to Wesley Ward’s by Peachtree Stable, a partnership syndicate. In the wake of the racing board’s ruling, Paul Pompa Jr., who co-owned Big Brown, said he was making plans to take his horses from Dutrow.

In 2005, Dutrow won the Breeders’ Cup Sprint with Silver Train and the Classic with Saint Liam, who was subsequently named Horse of the Year.

He has no such runners to merit inclusion next month in the Breeders’ Cup World Thoroughbred Championships at Churchill Downs.

The race Tiz the Argument won Thursday was a $53,000 allowance race, and bettors sent the filly off at lukewarm odds of 9-2

In court papers filed in Schenectady, Koenig said a stay was essential because he expected other states to respect the New York ruling and deny Dutrow a license. He had intended to move to Gulfstream Park in South Florida, where his stable has wintered for years.

“Rick Dutrow applied for and was granted stalls at Gulfstream Park and Palm Meadows previous to the latest ruling,” the racetrack said in a statement released Friday. “We will monitor the action of the court on October 17, 2011.”

The California Horse Racing Board announced Friday that absent a temporary restraining order it would honor the New York ban and not license Dutrow.

Unless the court intervenes, the last stakes horse Dutrow might saddle for at least a decade may be the filly CC’s Pal on Saturday in the $100,000 Athenia Stakes.

Even that is no sure thing. Dutrow entered her for the dirt track only. As of now the race is scheduled for the grass.

Dutrow has refused to discuss the board’s ruling, but said he understood what was at stake in court on Monday: nothing less than the ability to continue to do the only thing he had done well, train horses.

“It’s a big day,” he said by telephone.
590 2011-10-15 The Pearson Foundation objects to the insinuations of the On Education columns by Michael Winerip of Sept. 19 and Oct. 10: “When Free Trips Overlap With Commercial Purposes” and “Free Trips Raise Issues for Officials in Education.”

There is no basis for the suggestion that the Pearson Foundation’s support for the Council of Chief State School Officers’ international education conferences is designed to win contracts for Pearson, nor that any contract was won as a result. These articles themselves confirm that several chief state school officers have told The Times that the conference had no such intent or outcome.

The Pearson Foundation is a nonprofit organization that aims to make a difference by promoting literacy, learning and great teaching. The international conferences are just one example of efforts to bring people together to share the benefits of their experience.

We are honored to support the council and the international conference series, which represents a long-term commitment to foster a productive dialogue between education leaders from the United States and some of the world’s best-performing and most-improving school systems. The Pearson Foundation’s support of the council is a matter of public record and one of which we are proud.

We deeply regret the possibility that these columns may undermine the good intentions and the good work of the education leaders who took part in these important professional exchanges.
591 2011-10-15 The dull, conservative older generation and the rebellious, daring younger one: this is the primal narrative of the arts. But these days the situation is all too often reversed, with up-and-coming artists creating cautious, bland work that would have been unthinkable to their pioneering elders.

That was the dynamic on display in the intermittently entertaining but ultimately dismaying concert given by the early-music master Jordi Savall and his son, Ferran Savall, on Wednesday evening at the Morgan Library & Museum.

The concept of the program, “Folias and Romances,” was the omnipresence of influence: traditional Celtic and Catalan tunes, New World and Old, were all put in dialogue. Alternating between a lira da gamba and a bass viol, the elder Mr. Savall was, as always, idiosyncratic, rough and excellent: in the best moments his ornamentation was exhilarating, the texture of virtuosic fast passages irresistibly brushy, his dynamic range extraordinary. But he was less inspired than he was in March at Alice Tully Hall. That fiery show was riveting; in this one the mood was more tentative, less serene than sedated.

The new elements were Ferran Savall’s cool, languid singing; theorbo-playing; and arrangements and compositions. With an ethereal, smooth, nearly affectless voice, the younger Mr. Savall is making his name by taking traditional songs and adapting them into easygoing, crossover-style ballads, flavored with pop and jazz, that pass sweetly but limply.

He strummed, crooned and soulfully slapped the theorbo like John Mayer doing an acoustic set, but the effect felt artificial, particularly juxtaposed with his father’s consummate naturalness. Ferran Savall tries to freshen this repertory, and bring it, he writes on his Web site, “more in tune with modern audiences and the world in which we live.”
592 2011-10-15 “We are pleased with the jury verdict, which recognizes that Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc. properly disclosed the risks associated with this medicine that has been used to treat millions of patients over 15 years,” Christy Jones, an outside lawyer for the company, said in a statement.

The verdict comes at a time when Johnson & Johnson’s once-stellar reputation has been tarnished by multiple recalls of over-the-counter medicines like Tylenol as well as recalls of faulty hip replacement devices.

The suit was brought by two New Jersey patients, Robert Beare and Paul Gaffney, who sued after taking Levaquin and suffering tendon problems.

“It was a very difficult case for the jury,” said a lawyer for Mr. Beare and Mr. Gaffney, Andres F. Alonso, who plans to appeal.

Levaquin is one of a class of powerful antibiotics called fluoroquinolones, which are associated with an increased risk of tendon injuries, particularly for people over 60 and people taking steroids. In 2008, the F.D.A. required manufacturers of this class of drugs to put a “Black Box,” the most serious kind of warning, on the label.

The New Jersey case was the third of what are known as test cases over Levaquin, used by lawyers to try out their arguments.

A Minnesota man won the first case last December and was awarded $1.8 million, including punitive damages and Johnson & Johnson won the second case earlier this year. A fourth case is expected to go to trial in January.

But Carl Tobias, a professor at the University of Richmond School of Law, said it was too early to conclude that Johnson & Johnson would succeed in persuading other juries that it fully disclosed the drug’s risks when it should have. “We have to see the rest of the bellwethers to see how this is going to play out,” he said of the test cases.

The company has stopped actively marketing Levaquin because it is now available as a generic.
593 2011-10-15 “People look at the 10 schools in our conference and see one Goliath and nine Davids,” Heidelberg Coach Mike Hallett said. “We’re cast as the lovable losers. But that’s not how we look at it, or approach it. You don’t measure the value of athletics at an educational institution by the result, however lopsided, of one game. You’re missing every lesson if you do that.”

Indeed, at a time when the conversation at the highest levels of college football is dominated by academic dishonor and money-fueled, conference realignment deals, at tiny Heidelberg 150 players fill the roster without a single athletic scholarship. The team’s collective grade point average is just above 3.0. The practice field is dusty and only one locker room has adequate space for the equipment.

Heidelberg is the team that is supposed to lose big to mighty Mount Union on Saturday, and it knows it. But as they gathered this week, the players greeted the late afternoon with boisterous whoops, chants and hollers that drowned out the rattle of an adjacent railway and turned heads in the parking lot of a nearby machine factory.

“Where else would you rather be?” wide receiver Mario Escalante shouted as the first drills began Tuesday.

“Nowhere but here!” his teammates yelled in unison.

It is Mount Union week, and Heidelberg, which has won four of its first five games for the first time in 18 years, actually thinks it can win.

Hallett, who played on Mount Union’s first national championship team, in 1993, remembers his first year as the Heidelberg coach, preparing to play his alma mater.

“I looked at the film of them and of us and I knew we had no chance,” Hallett said. The team he inherited had a 1-39 record in its previous four seasons.

“So I told the kids that we don’t have a prayer of winning,” he said. “I didn’t want to give a typical gung-ho speech because I wanted them to know I wouldn’t lie. So I said we can’t win. But we can compete and prove to ourselves that we can get better.”

Heidelberg had been outscored, 187-0, in the previous three Mount Union games.

“But in 2007 we became the only team in the conference to score a point against their first-team defense,” Hallett said. “We kicked a field goal.”

“It’s not always going to be a proud moment, but there are things you can be proud of,” Hallett said, adding that the next week Heidelberg upset the conference power Baldwin-Wallace by 22 points, the first Heidelberg win over Baldwin-Wallace in 18 years.

Hallett’s first three teams had 4-6 records. Last season, Heidelberg, whose mascot is named the Student Prince, was 5-5. The scores against Mount Union have gotten marginally closer: 49-0, 44-14, 45-7.

“I came here knowing all about the losing,” Tony Gordon, a senior cornerback, said this week, sitting in an athletic department meeting room feet from a trophy case celebrating the university’s football glory days, including a faded ball from Heidelberg’s 1972 Division III national championship season.

“And yes, as a freshman, I was kind of scared of Mount Union — you have to cover guys that might be N.F.L. stars.”

Indianapolis Colts wide receiver Pierre Garcon, for example, played at Mount Union for three years.

“But I didn’t want to go to the place that won all the time,” Gordon said. “Sometimes you learn more being the one who gets knocked down. Sometimes you learn more having to pick yourself up.”

But wouldn’t it be easier to be in a normal conference, one that does not have a superpower handing out one-sided defeats week after week?

“I like the test,” Gordon said. “Once a year, we play probably the best team in the country. Our motivation is that one day we’ll beat them.”

While Gordon’s attitude was commonly repeated in interviews with Heidelberg players, there were moments this week when the reality of the task at hand interrupted the buoyancy. On Monday night, the defense gathered in an amphitheater-style classroom to watch film of Mount Union’s previous five games.

Scott Donaldson, the team’s defensive coordinator, had spliced together recurring formations, trying to familiarize the Heidelberg defenders with patterns that offered clues to what Mount Union might run in certain situations. The coaches and players were chewing tobacco and spitting into plastic cups as they yelled out coded analysis of what they saw in the formations:

But in the darkened room, it was impossible not to notice the numbing succession of perfectly executed plays unfolding on the screen — running backs barreling for 10 yards at a time and wide receivers catching passes over and over for first downs. As the uniforms of the opponents kept changing, the Mount Union plays worked the same.

Donaldson then showed one play in which three Mount Union receivers were wide open simultaneously. He replayed it four times, the room growing more and more quiet with each replay.

“If you see them line up like this,” Donaldson barked into the darkness, “you linebackers better turn and run downfield as fast as you can.”

Walking out of the film session after it ended, Donaldson said his presentation was something short of a true Mount Union highlight reel. That is because he had intentionally left out the 50-yard touchdown runs and other long scoring plays.

Larry Kehres became Mount Union’s coach in 1986 and has since compiled a record of 308-23-3. He does not address things like win streaks and instead preaches consistency — weekly practice schedules are similar whether it is the opening game of the season or the national championship game, which Mount Union has played in 13 times in the last 15 years. Mount Union, with an enrollment of about 2,200 — Heidelberg’s is roughly 1,200 — also does not award athletic scholarships, which are prohibited in Division III.

Asked if he was aware that his team had a bull’s-eye on its back in every opponent’s schedule, Kehres responded: “No. It’s hard to even think that way. My job is preparing our team.”

Kehres is, however, proud of how aggressively his conference brethren battle week after week.

“The conference reflects Ohio in every way,” Kehres said. “Football is part of the fabric of every small manufacturing town. We don’t have all the manufacturing we once had, but we still have our football. No one ever takes it for granted.”

Despite all of Mount Union’s football success, Kehres is widely respected by his peers, perhaps because he is known to kick field goals on first down or have players step out of bounds on breakaway runs to constrain the scale of a rout late in games.

“He could have scored 100 points plenty of times but knows the impact of a score like that,” Hallett said. “He’s in the education business, too. What’s the lesson in putting up a number like that?”

At the conclusion of Heidelberg’s practice Tuesday, the players dropped to one knee as Hallett stood next to a goal post.

“There are two kinds of teams that play Mount Union,” he told them. “The first are teams that are beaten before they even take the field. They don’t believe they can win. The other teams think they have to be a bunch of Supermen on every play to beat them. They lose, too.

“Don’t be either. Be yourself. If we play our best and lose, I have no problem. Just don’t squander the opportunity. That’s what is important, on this field or in life — don’t squander the really good opportunities.”

Back in his modest, windowless office, Hallett was asked if he genuinely considered Saturday’s 1:30 p.m. game a “really good” opportunity.

“If they make a few mistakes and we don’t,” he answered, “we have a chance to compete. We might be able to steal a game.”

And what would a win over Mount Union mean?

“I don’t think they would throw us a parade,” Hallett said, perhaps forgetting that when Ohio Northern University upset Mount Union in 2005 — the lone Mount Union conference defeat since 1994 — the Ohio Northern bus received a police escort back to campus, where a cheering crowd awaited.

Justin Suddeth, meanwhile, has noticed subtle changes already. Even the remote prospect of an upset had caused a couple of professors this week to give him a furtive, hopeful wink.
594 2011-10-15 TRIPOLI, Libya — Hundreds of anti-Qaddafi militiamen converged on several neighborhoods of Tripoli on Friday, firing heavy weapons on residential streets in a rare outburst of violence that may have started with demonstrations in support of the deposed leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.

There were reports of gun battles between Qaddafi loyalists and former rebel fighters, though it was not clear who started the fighting. Adam Ahmed, an anti-Qaddafi fighter, said he and his colleagues had come under fire on Friday afternoon after responding to reports that loyalists were trying to raise Colonel Qaddafi’s green flag. At least seven armed men were arrested, he said, including one who was carrying a rocket-propelled grenade launcher.

If confirmed, the protests would represent the boldest attempt by loyalist elements to assert their presence in the capital since its capture in late August. The violence that followed underscored Tripoli’s still-combustible mix of armed militias with no central command, patrolling a city growing weary of their presence.

Colonel Qaddafi’s success at eluding capture, along with continued fighting in other parts of Libya, has contributed to the unease. The Benghazi-based interim government, the Transitional National Council, has said it will not form a proper government until the city of Surt is captured from Qaddafi loyalists.

After weeks of fighting there, a group of a hundred or so anti-Qaddafi fighters were pinned down on Friday by snipers outside the last remaining pocket of the city under the control of the loyalists.
595 2011-10-15 Ameriprise has been around in one form or another since 1894. It eventually came to be known as Investors Diversified Services, or I.D.S. for short. American Express bought the company in 1984, then spun it off in 2005, at which point it assumed its current name.

To their credit, Ameriprise representatives, many of whom are independent franchisees, generally begin their relationships with customers by creating a financial plan. Traditional brokers don’t always do this and often worry only about investments, which is sort of like prescribing drugs without first taking a full medical history.

Once the plan is complete, however, things have sometimes gone awry over the years. There have been garden-variety problems, things that many brokerage firms have gotten into trouble for, like improper mutual fund trading, lost laptops packed with private customer data and the steering of customers to investments that provided extra commission to Ameriprise advisers.

But then there are the more unusual episodes. In at least three states, regulators fined the company because some Ameriprise advisers were forging client signatures. In New Hampshire, company representatives referred to their brief absences from the office, when they were supposedly rounding up signatures, as “taking a 10-minute trip to Kennebunkport.”

Then there is the Medical Capital fiasco, in which brokers at Securities America, an Ameriprise unit at the time, sold hundreds of millions of dollars in supposed medical bill receivables in what later turned out to be essentially a Ponzi scheme. Medical Capital had no audited financial statements and senior Securities America executives expressed concern about this, but the brokers sold the notes anyway, according to documents Massachusetts securities regulators released. In a statement, Securities America noted that audited financial statements were not a legal requirement in this instance.

Medical Capital used the money it received to buy a yacht and invest in a company that produced pornography sites for people who like bisexuals, bondage and gay Asians, according to Jeffrey R. Sonn, a Fort Lauderdale, Fla., lawyer who represented Medical Capital investors. In April, Ameriprise paid about $150 million to settle the matter. As always with these sorts of things, the company neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing. Ameriprise recently sold Securities America.

In a perfect world, customers would never come close to ending up in these kinds of situations. This is how things are supposed to work at Ameriprise: You meet an adviser, you pay for a financial plan and then the adviser helps you carry it out. Ideally, any advisers in this situation, no matter where they work, then select the best investments and insurance on earth to put you in.

Here’s where it starts to get murky, though. Ameriprise’s combined revenue from its internal insurance, annuities and mutual funds is much higher than what it earns from financial planning. So while advisers aren’t paid more to push the company’s own products than they are to sell somebody else’s, the company’s success depends in no small part on them doing that anyway.

“Can people work in that environment and give good advice?” said Dan Candura, a 20-year veteran of Ameriprise’s predecessor companies who ran an adviser quality initiative there. “They can. But they are not going to set sales records, and it’s easier to sell the bad stuff than the good stuff.”

In the J. D. Power & Associates 2011 ranking of full-service brokerage firms, Ameriprise ranked a bit above average. It did better than Merrill Lynch but worse than Fidelity and Charles Schwab. Ameriprise says it has a 93 percent annual client retention rate, though it is not clear how many of those people stick around because the terms of their insurance products make it uneconomic for them to switch.

The biggest potential red flag for Ameriprise customers, however, is adviser compensation. The representatives have a fair bit of leeway in how they charge, as the company’s own securities filing makes clear. It notes that compensation is “determined by a schedule that takes into account the type of service or products provided, the type of branded adviser affiliation and other criteria.”

So you have to ask for a “schedule” to figure out what’s going on here. And keep in mind that advisers may earn any number of fees from mutual fund companies whose funds they sell and commissions from Ameriprise’s own insurance and annuity offerings, though the company has recently opened its variable annuity platform up to a few other providers.

And about those annuities — again, from the company’s filings: “Variable annuities provide us with fee-based revenue in the form of mortality and expense risk fees, marketing support and administrative fees, fees charged for optional features elected by the contractholder and other contract charges.” And that’s before you pay fees related to any underlying investments.

“All of these things are drafted by an attorney,” said Don Froude, the president of Ameriprise’s advisers group. “But at the end of the day, if you ask me how much you’re paying and what value you’re getting for that, I’d submit that you would get an answer you’d understand 10,000 times.”

And it’s crucial to ask and then add up all the numbers, since the company has a bit of a reputation for offering what came to be known internally as “Happy Meals” to customers. The meal would consist of a suite of products, often ones that customers could buy over time even if they didn’t have a lot of money at first, that earned hefty fees and commissions for Ameriprise advisers. “It’s attractively packaged and sounds like it’s good for us,” said Mr. Candura, the former Ameriprise executive who now runs his own financial planning firm and conducts ethics training for other advisers. “But we don’t often read the labels.”

All the Ameriprise executives I spoke with said they had never heard of the “Happy Meal” phrase. “There is this perception that dogs us, and it’s getting quite frustrating,” said Ted Truscott, Ameriprise’s chief executive of asset management. “People want to write this story. It’s very old news, and it’s just not factual.”

I genuinely hope that he is right. The country needs a fleet of financial planners to work with people who don’t have $500,000 or more in assets. We need trusted professionals who start with a plan and don’t use it as a vehicle to push their own products. And for most people, it shouldn’t require paying 2 or 3 percent of their net worth in fees or take more than a handful of hours of a professional’s time each year.

As for Ameriprise’s 401(k) plan for its employees, there may well be areas where it has broken the rules. But it is hard to have a ton of sympathy for aggrieved employees in one important respect. If you work for the dog food makers, they are probably going to serve you some dog food. And some of it may not be your favorite variety.
596 2011-10-15 Ms. Gutleben said some churches now include pets in their antipoverty work: “They will host an event for the surrounding community, and provide medical and dental care for people, but also have a veterinarian who will provide free vaccines on church grounds.” At churches like Church of the King, outside New Orleans, which holds monthly events for pets, hundreds of people will line up to get vaccines.

It would be hard to say that helping pets is not a good thing, befitting a religious person. But the justification for helping animals is a source of contention among theologians. Roughly speaking, some Christian thinkers believe animals have intrinsic rights to be treated well, like people. Others hold to the more traditional teaching that humankind was given dominion over animals, so while people should exercise compassionate stewardship over animals, the animals have no “right” to such treatment. And some wish to revise our understanding of Christian tradition altogether.

“Animals have always been central to Christianity, as well as all the world’s major religions,” said Laura Hobgood-Oster, who teaches at Southwestern University in Georgetown, Tex., and is the author of “Holy Dogs and Asses: Animals in the History of the Christian Tradition.”

“The history of Christianity is full of animal blessings and animal burials,” Ms. Hobgood-Oster said. “Most of the holy people, saints, are pictured with animals, and have had caring and loving relationships with animals. The tradition is full of animals. We just started to lose sight of that three or four hundred years ago.”

There are a few animal stories that many people know. Catholics are taught that St. Francis of Assisi communed with the birds and spoke with a wolf; on his feast day, Oct. 4, it was traditional to bless livestock, and today on that date many churches bless pets.

But more obscure animal stories are being reclaimed. Ms. Hobgood-Oster points to the renewed popularity of St. Guinefort, “a greyhound who was a saint in southern France. Until the church found out he was a greyhound and dug him up and buried him as a heretic, in the 13th century. He was a saint who helped heal children with walking problems. There are all these shoes buried at his shrine close to Lyon.” In 1987, St. Guinefort was the subject of a French film.

Stephen H. Webb, who teaches religion at Wabash College in Crawfordsville, Ind., and who founded the Christian Vegetarian Association, believes that Ms. Hobgood-Oster “goes overboard” in trying to make the Christian message pro-animal. And he said liberal theologians can be too casual in their use of Scripture.

“A lot of animal-rights theologians begin with the idea that the Gospel is variable and you can read anything into the Bible,” Mr. Webb said. “And they read out of the Bible a general principle of love and compassion that they translate into the language of rights.”

Believing that animals have rights could make it hard to justify keeping them as pets, Mr. Webb said. By contrast, “a welfarist position doesn’t mind zoos or pet-keeping,” he added. “Domesticating animals is to some extent what it means to be a human being. We domesticated them very early in human history, and our need for them and need to care for them is written into human culture.”

And as for eating animals? Vegetarians can match Christians for their passion, and so it is not surprising that Mr. Webb, who in 1998 wrote a book called “On God and Dogs,” got caught between the two groups. In 2005, he wrote an article about how although he was predominantly vegetarian, he would sometimes eat the meat left on his children’s plates. Not long after, he got a call from the Christian Vegetarian Association, which he had helped found. He was told he was no longer co-director of the organization.

“I was kicked out of my own group,” Mr. Webb said. “I walk a thin line on this issue, because I want to promote compassion for animals. But I have been beaten up on this issue.”

If he ever tires of animal-welfare activists, or of Christians, Mr. Webb can always take solace in poetry. For was it not Wordsworth who wrote, in 1805, in “Tribute. To the Memory of the Same Dog”?

For love, that comes wherever life and holy sense

Are given by God, in thee was most intense;

A chain of heart, a feeling of the mind,

Not only to us Men, but to thy Kind.
597 2011-10-15 To hear Beane tell it, baseball’s Moneyball era is over. In a profile in The New York Times Magazine last month, he basically blamed the A’s recent history of mediocrity (or worse) on the fact that the rest of the league had stolen his playbook. The various competitive advantages that he was once able to exploit — valuing, say, on-base percentage over batting average — no longer exist.

Baseball is moving “back to an efficient market,” said Beane, sounding every bit like the in-demand corporate speaker that he has become. He went so far as to suggest that the game was starting to resemble European professional soccer, which is dominated by a handful of big-spending “superfranchises.”

The problem with this narrative is that it isn’t true. Baseball is more competitive than ever, and we have this year’s postseason to prove it.

Behind each of the surviving teams is a story of shrewd management that flies directly in the face of Beane’s self-serving assessment of the state of the game, starting with the Cardinals, who have essentially turned into the perennial contender that Beane’s A’s were supposed to be. This year they made the playoffs against all odds, after losing their ace, Adam Wainwright, in spring training and then falling 10 ½ games behind the in the wild-card race with just over a month to play.

A lot has been made of the Cardinals’ pluck and resilience. But what has kept them on the field into mid-October isn’t character or, for that matter, a carefully crafted long-term plan. It was a few risky yet ultimately vindicated moves, like asking an aging Lance Berkman, who hadn’t been an everyday outfielder since 2004, to man right field.

Above all, it was an almost irrational unwillingness to give up on what looked like a lost season, which yielded a flurry of quick fixes (and quick fixes of those quick fixes) as well as a trade-deadline Hail Mary — the swapping of a budding star, Colby Rasmus, for some badly needed pitching depth — that seemed crazy until they worked.

The Brewers have baseball’s 17th-largest payroll and the sort of homegrown lineup — Ryan Braun, Prince Fielder, Rickie Weeks — that is not supposed to exist in the game’s modern era.

But they wouldn’t be playing for their first World Series berth since was president if their general manager, Doug Melvin, hadn’t traded away several other products of the club’s killer farm system for a pair of starting pitchers, Zack Greinke and Shaun Marcum. He was widely second-guessed at the time, but it’s hard to do so now.

Then there are the Tigers, run by Dave Dombrowski, the architect of the 1997 , one of the youngest expansion teams to win a World Series. After a disappointing 2010, Dombrowski made what was probably the best free-agent signing of the off-season (Victor Martinez), then plugged the remaining leaks, adding a starting pitcher (Doug Fister) and a third baseman (Wilson Betemit) in late July.

With Justin Verlander, a former first-round draft pick who hasn’t always looked as if he would live up to his enormous potential, that has been more than enough.

But the best evidence that Beane is wrong, that money isn’t all that matters, is the Texas Rangers. Remember Tom Hicks, the financial whiz who signed to a 10-year contract worth at least $50 million more than the next-highest bidder, then surrounded him with free-agent sluggers at the end of -inflated careers?

Hicks failed to buy a World Series, but he nearly went broke trying. Guess what happened when he started belatedly slashing expenses in a vain attempt to prevent the team from going under? Jon Daniels, who was 28 when he became the Rangers’ general manager, had the chance to take a different, more cost-effective approach . He restocked the team’s depleted farm system, refocused on pitching and made a few big trades that created the nucleus of the team that is now on the brink of its second straight World Series appearance.

Baseball, “Moneyball” teaches us, is an inherently unfair game. It’s undeniably true that big-market teams are at an advantage. They have the resources to reload every winter and take a fresh shot at the pennant, while clubs like the Brewers have to play a different game, biding their time and seizing their win-now moment before they can no longer afford to keep players they’ve spent years cultivating.

But there’s a reason general managers like Theo Epstein are now courted as aggressively as the players themselves: Building a baseball club is an enormously complicated business. Unlike G.M.’s in the and , you’re not plucking pro-ready players. You’re identifying and developing raw prospects, and mixing and matching them via trades and free agency, all the while knowing that every player you let go is a potential star and every one you sign a possible bust. Being a big-market team is no guarantee of success, just as being a small-market one is no guarantee of failure.

Which brings us back to Beane’s A’s, who may actually have a more relevant lesson to teach us about baseball’s — and America’s — economy than that David can defeat Goliath.

In a fascinating essay posted last week on the Baseball Prospectus Web site, the writer Kevin Baker traces the 100-year downward trajectory of the A’s franchise. It’s the story of greedy, inept management making one bad decision after another to move the club to ever-smaller, poorer markets — the A’s, recall, went from to Kansas City before landing in — all the while soaking up de facto subsidies that they didn’t reinvest in the team.

The A’s are trying to relocate to , which is bigger and richer than Oakland. This would presumably improve their financial prospects. But baseball’s governing body is sitting on their request, apparently in deference to the more politically powerful , who don’t want to lose their monopoly on the Bay Area’s wealthiest ZIP codes.

Who suffers? The fans, of course, who are left to watch a second-rate team play uninspiring baseball in a decaying, outdated ballpark. If Beane is looking for a new baseball story to tell his corporate clients that illuminates the state of American capitalism, this could be a good place to start.
598 2011-10-15 New Zealand has not won the tournament since 1987, when it defeated France at Eden Park stadium in Auckland, the venue for the semifinal Sunday.

Nothing less than winning the Webb Ellis Cup will satisfy the rugby-mad New Zealand public, which has suffered the agony of watching its teams fail repeatedly since then, despite being the favorites to win going into each tournament.

Australia, like South Africa, has been crowned world champion twice, and a third victory would be the perfect riposte from Deans to the rebuff he received at the hands of the New Zealand Rugby Union in 2007.

It would also vindicate the Australian Rugby Union’s decision to sign him until 2013, before the global tournament had even begun this year.

At the same time, it would surely mean the end of Henry’s coaching career with the All Blacks and in all likelihood also end any aspirations New Zealand assistant coach Steve Hansen has of getting the top job, too.

Yet Henry declared Friday that “it’s not personal” and that it could be Julia Gillard, the Australian prime minister, in the opposition coaching box for all the relevance it had for the game.

“It’s one team playing another team in a game of sport,” he said. “You do your job. It’s as simple as that, really.”

Deans, who played for New Zealand, as did his great uncle, Bob Deans, and his brother Bruce, followed a similar mantra.

“I am not out there,” said Deans, who was an assistant coach of the All Blacks when they lost the 2003 World Cup semifinal to Australia. “It is the players who are out there. It’s the Wallabies playing the All Blacks. It’s not about me.

“It’s often suggested to me I’ll have mixed emotions, but I’m firmly embedded now. There’s none of that.”

There is no doubt the two nations have a great sporting rivalry, which includes cricket and rugby league.

South Africa vice captain Victor Matfield joked last week that his team had never received so much support from New Zealanders as it did in the buildup to the quarterfinal last weekend against Australia.

Australia flyhalf Quade Cooper, who was born in New Zealand, has also had some barbs come his way — as well as a good dose of booing from the crowds — but that has been largely because of a couple of incidents involving him and the revered All Blacks captain Richie McCaw.

Kneeing McCaw in the head, as Cooper did in the most recent match between the two teams in Brisbane, is never going to win you support in New Zealand.

Yet Henry is adamant that playing Australia on Sunday does not add anything extra to the occasion, even though New Zealand also lost to the Wallabies in the 1991 World Cup semifinal.

“We want to win this Cup,” Henry said. “It could be South Africa or England or whoever. It’s a semifinal. You need to win and you need to win next week, if you win this week, to win a Cup. It’s as simple as that, really.

“It happens to be Australia. But they are a big brother to us in many ways,” he said. “They are a country of 20 million people, compared to four and a half million. It’s a positive relationship, I think. It brings out the best of New Zealanders.”

Neither team is injury-free going into the do-or-die showdown. New Zealand has lost Daniel Carter (groin), Mils Muliaina (shoulder) and Colin Slade (groin) in the past couple of weeks, and McCaw continues to be plagued by an ongoing foot problem and has barely trained since missing the final pool match against Canada.

But Deans, who spent several years coaching McCaw while both were with the Canterbury Crusaders, a New Zealand Super Rugby team, expected the All Blacks captain to “play out of his skin” regardless.

“You only have to look at the way he returns from injury after a long layoff,” McCaw said. “He doesn’t work his way back into form — he hits the ground running. We are expecting the best from him.

“But it’s not about individuals — it’s about teams and how effectively they come together and how effectively they function.”

Deans has his own injury worries to contend with. Kurtley Beale remains in doubt for the clash because of a minor hamstring tear he suffered in the quarterfinal victory over South Africa, but he has been named at fullback, pending a final assessment after the captain’s run Saturday.

If he is ruled out, Adam Ashley-Cooper will take over the No. 15 jersey and Anthony Fainga’a will shift to center, with Rob Horne coming onto the bench.
599 2011-10-15 A Connecticut mother and businesswoman has won the right to name her company after her daughter, Willa, despite the objections of the nation's largest consumer products company.     Christy Prunier spent the last three years creating a line of ski...
600 2011-10-15 At Bistro Chat Noir, an upscale French restaurant on Manhattan's Upper East Side frequented by celebrities like Woody Allen, Madonna and Natalie Portman, the phone and Internet service is often out, so credit cards cannot be processed. When that h...
601 2011-10-15 Score one for the screenwriter. A United States District Court judge in Los Angeles has dismissed a lawsuit by an Iraq war veteran, Sgt. Jeffrey Sarver, that claimed the film ''The Hurt Locker'' was based on him without his permission and that he ...
602 2011-10-15 Piero Weiss, a former concert pianist and recording artist who turned to musicology, becoming an author and co-author of books in the field, including a widely used textbook, and founding the music history department at the Peabody Conservatory, d...
603 2011-10-16 President Obama, Representative John Lewis and the Rev. Jesse Jackson spoke at the opening ceremony for the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial....
604 2011-10-16 President Obama, Representative John Lewis and the Rev. Jesse Jackson spoke at the opening ceremony for the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial....
605 2011-10-16 Emily Elizabeth Heller and Joseph Hobart Lazarus were married Saturday evening by Rabbi Mikki Bourne at the Conservatory of Flowers in Golden Gate Park in San Francisco.

The bride, 36, is a freelance photographer and photography editor in San Francisco. She graduated from Northwestern and received a Master of Fine Arts degree from the San Francisco Art Institute.

She is the daughter of Peggy Fulton Heller and Steven A. Heller of Summit, N.J. The bride’s father is an executive vice president of Seiden Krieger Associates, an executive search firm in New York. Her mother retired as the executive vice president of Vox Medica, a health care communications company in Philadelphia.

The bridegroom, 39, works from San Francisco as the vice president for marketing at Backflip Studios, a developer of games for mobile devices in Boulder, Colo. He now works from San Francisco. He graduated from Colgate and received an M.B.A. from the University of Texas.

He is a son of Marylyn Jane Lazarus and Kenneth A. Lazarus of Washington. The bridegroom’s father, a lawyer who worked in the White House during the Ford administration, has a private practice in Washington and is an adjunct professor at the Georgetown Law Center.
606 2011-10-16 Julia Inger Weiss and Brett David Taxin were married Saturday in St. Petersburg, Fla. Rabbi Gary M. Klein officiated at the Vinoy Renaissance hotel, with Cantor Deborah Jacobson taking part.

Mrs. Taxin, 28, is a second-year M.B.A. student at the University of Chicago. She graduated from the University of Florida.

She is a daughter of Irene Weiss and Dr. Steven G. Weiss of Palm Harbor, Fla. The bride’s father is an allergist and immunologist in private practice in Clearwater, Fla. Her mother is on the board of the Florida Holocaust Museum in St. Petersburg.

Mr. Taxin, 32, is an investment manager, focusing on small business and jobs initiatives, in the Treasury Department’s domestic finance division. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and received both a law degree and an M.B.A. from the University of Chicago.

He is a son of Marion S. Taxin and Dr. Richard N. Taxin of Rose Valley, Pa. The bridegroom’s mother is an adjunct instructor of English at Widener University in Chester, Pa. His father, a radiologist, is the president and chairman of Southeast Radiology, a group practice in Chester.

The couple met in 2006 while waiting in line for a table at Ringo, a sushi restaurant in Chicago. Ms. Weiss and her friends all had noticed Mr. Taxin when he walked in.
607 2011-10-16 Lindsey Sarah Barst, a daughter of Dr. Robyn J. Barst and Dr. Samuel M. Barst of Scarsdale, N.Y., was married Saturday evening at her family’s vacation home in Amagansett, N.Y., to Jason Brian Gumer, the son of Sherie B. Gumer and Dr. Arthur Gumer of Atlanta. Rabbi Scott E. Colbert officiated.

The bride and bridegroom, both 25, met at Northwestern, from which they both graduated.

Mrs. Gumer is a third-year medical student at Temple University. She received a master’s in bioethics from the London School of Economics.

Her mother, a pediatrician and pediatric cardiologist, is a professor emeritus at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons in New York. She consults on the topic of pulmonary arterial hypertension. In November, the bride’s father, a pediatric anesthesiologist, is to begin working in Valhalla, N.Y., for North American Partners in Anesthesia, a national practice based in Melville, N.Y.

Mr. Gumer is an associate at Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, the New York law firm. He received a law degree from New York University.

His mother is a member of the governance board of the Marcus Jewish Community Center in Atlanta. His father, an obstetrician and gynecologist, is in private practice there.
608 2011-10-16 What drove them was the need for even bigger spaces to fit the even bigger aesthetics of artists of the moment like Richard Serra and Jasper Johns. Mr. Serra is known for his freestanding steel sculptures, some 14 feet tall; Mr. Johns’s enormous canvases require high walls. “If you want to show big work, you need big open doors ... and concrete floors,” Ms. Gladstone told me.

SoHo and Chelsea were full of such large, lofty spaces; the East Village, among other, similarly cheap neighborhoods, was not. SoHo and Chelsea offered another advantage. Studying historical zoning codes, my colleague Richard Green and I found that unlike heavy manufacturing, which was mostly pushed to the city’s fringes, the light-manufacturing buildings that dominated these neighborhoods were adjacent to conventional residential neighborhoods, with coffee shops, restaurants and other amenities.

By 1971, when the city rezoned SoHo buildings for artists’ work-live spaces, it was merely catching up to a phenomenon well under way. The rezoning also allowed commercial activity on the buildings’ first floors, opening the way for more galleries and restaurants, adding momentum to the neighborhood’s already robust revitalization.

But art’s physical characteristics are just one factor in shaping where it takes root; the social, political and economic context matters, too.

Take the emergence of the arts district in London’s East End in the late 1980s. In many ways, the area fit the SoHo model: cheap, flexible spaces that were close to urban amenities. But it didn’t really take off until 1988, at the height of anti-Thatcherism, when the artist Damien Hirst opened an exhibition featuring a slate of politically charged artists. Soon labeled the Young British Artists, or Y.B.A.’s, they yanked British art into the center of the contemporary art world.

The radical anti-establishment character of Y.B.A.’s art seemed to grow with the rise of Tony Blair and his New Labor in the 1990s, culminating in the 1997 exhibition “Sensation.” Such works as Mr. Hirst’s infamous stuffed shark floating in formaldehyde and Tracey Emin’s tent “Everyone I Have Ever Slept With” replaced stodgy historical pastoral landscapes as representative of British art.

An explosion of interest in their work had a transformative effect on the East End, with galleries and performance spaces paving the way for trendy apartments, restaurants and shops. None of this was planned, nor could it have been.

The evolution of these districts shows that using art as a development tool is like working with quicksilver: it’s hard to know which path it might take, and a tough proposition when dealing with taxpayers’ money and foundation grants.

Which is not to say that there’s no place for programs like the N.E.A.’s. But it does counsel circumspection. These examples demonstrate that specific cultural circumstances dictate art’s role as a change agent. Instead of a shotgun approach that assumes every post-industrial zone or blighted district can, with a few million dollars in subsidies, become the next SoHo, we should follow the lead of the metaphorical college that puts down sidewalks only after the students have hewn their own paths.

Groups like the N.E.A. should first identify where artists are doing promising work, and determine whether public resources might help catalyze an artistic community. There’s nothing wrong with looking to art as a way to raise a city’s economic development. But before we go tossing money at anyone with a paintbrush or an art space, we have to understand the complex ways artistic communities shape our cities’ fortunes.
609 2011-10-16 MEXICO CITY — Laura Pollán Toledo, a former high school Spanish teacher who became one of Cuba’s most public dissidents as she led other wives of political prisoners in protest every Sunday, died in a Havana hospital on Friday, her family and other dissidents said. She was 63.

She entered the hospital on Oct. 7 after she developed a respiratory illness, and she died of cardiac arrest, her family said.

Ms. Pollán founded the Ladies in White after the Cuban government arrested her husband, Héctor Maseda, an independent journalist, in March 2003 during a crackdown on political dissent known as the Black Spring. In all, 75 men were arrested and sentenced after one-day trials to terms ranging from 6 to 28 years. Mr. Maseda was given a 20-year sentence for acting against “the territorial integrity of the state.”

Encountering the wives of the other dissidents as she traveled from office to office seeking news of her husband, Ms. Pollán founded the Ladies in White to press for the men’s release.

“This fight will continue,” Berta Soler, the group’s spokeswoman, told the Spanish news agency EFE. “Physically, Laura is no longer with us, but she is spiritually.”
610 2011-10-16 “You can call me an adventurer, a man with a lot of curiosity,” he told The New York Times in an interview in 2007. He was also a photographer, a painter, an inventor of various contraptions, a linguist and an ebullient storyteller.

Over time he became more and more outspoken in his political views. Fluent in Tibetan, Mr. Peissel grew to identify with the monks, yak drivers, salt traders and other nomads he got to know in almost 30 expeditions, and to criticize the Chinese and even some Tibetans, including the Dalai Lama, for not standing up enough, in his view, against the “Chinese occupiers” and their oppression.

He wrote angrily about the large-scale destruction of Tibet’s Buddhist monasteries and other architectural treasures. That destruction and decay, and his quest to learn what he could about the people and the animals of “that unique civilization, part Stone Age, part sophisticated,” drove him “to record the culture before it disappears,” he once wrote.

In the tradition of earlier explorers, Mr. Peissel was a fine draftsman and watercolorist, who recorded his findings in evocative scenes and detailed line drawings of monasteries. His artwork has been shown in exhibitions in Paris and New York.

Always looking for unusual new projects as access was blocked elsewhere, Mr. Peissel once put together an expedition on the upper Ganges River, riding the rapids in a fan-driven hovercraft he had invented.

In 1989, he persuaded relatives and friends to join him on a river journey, alternately rowing and sailing a Viking longboat to the Black Sea from the Baltic Sea, a soggy trip that took 53 days.

Mr. Peissel took great pride in his discoveries, like identifying a small purebred Tibetan horse, later named the Riwoche horse. And he boasted of his expedition to what he believed to be the elusive historical source of the Mekong River, accompanied by Chinese handlers. It resulted in his book “The Last Barbarians.” He called one of his last books, “Tibet: The Secret Continent,” his bible and a distillation of his knowledge.

But Mr. Peissel would just as easily speak of the journey during which he lay with two broken legs in freezing winds, or the time his truck was stuck for days in mud and ice until a passing caravan of yaks pulled it free, or the day a part of his mule train dropped off a precipice and animals, tents and provisions were swept away in a roaring stream. “Travel with him was always a triumph over the impossible,” said one of his sons, Olivier, a sometime travel companion.

Besides being a passionate Tibetologist — he had a doctorate in ethnology from the Sorbonne — Mr. Peissel was a restless man who pushed himself hard, who was as eager to communicate with peasants as with aristocrats and who was determined to avoid the routine in life, his friends and family said.

In recent years, as his travel slowed, Mr. Peissel returned to painting. He had just completed his first children’s book about Tibet, illustrated with what he called “patented stroboscopic images.” On the day he died, he had tickets to travel to the Book Fair in Frankfurt to sell his latest book, said his wife, Roselyne Peissel.

Born in Paris on Feb. 11, 1937, he liked to draw prehistoric animals as a child, and his boyhood heroes were explorers. Mr. Peissel was married first to Marie-Claire de Montaignac, with whom he had two sons, and then to Missy Allen, with whom he had a daughter and a son. He and Ms. Peissel also had a son. His five children survive him.
611 2011-10-16 The other two instances were the killing in July of Kandahar’s senior cleric as he prayed in a mosque, and a few weeks later the killing of Kandahar’s mayor.

The searches are deeply disturbing for most Afghan men, as the turban here at once signifies one’s religious faith and is a national dress — not to mention being something of a fashion statement.

Turbans are worn across the Muslim world because the Prophet Muhammad was believed to have worn one, and they are especially favored by imams and mullahs. In Afghanistan, which is a deeply pious country, usage is broader, with dozens of styles and colors. There are ones made of synthetics from that cost about $20, silk ones from Herat that cost twice as much and ones made of more luxuriant silks from the north of Afghanistan that cost still more.

The people of southeastern Afghanistan wind the cloth large and loose so it looks as if the whole structure might topple off; Kabul residents prefer a smaller, tighter look. Those in eastern Afghanistan tuck the last bit of cloth so it sticks up out of the turban like a cockscomb, known as a “shimla,” and its size has something to do, loosely, with a person’s view of his own standing. The were known for wearing turbans made of a very soft cotton that had especially long tails and were either black or white; the former signifies that the wearer’s family members are descendants of Muhammad.

However, most turbans in Afghanistan now — and in the pre-Taliban era — are subtle grays and charcoals, deep olive greens, lighter soft greens and browns.

“I have four or five turbans,” said Hajji Mohammad Zaman Ahmadi, a 57-year-old Kabul resident who was in a bazaar to buy a white skullcap for wearing at home but had his turban on for the workday. He had just gotten a miniature turban for his 2-year-old nephew, he said.

“It is made out of the softest of our country’s wool,” he said.

Mr. Ahmadi, like Mr. Niaz, believes that bombers who use their turbans to hide explosives are committing an offense not just against Islam, but against the nation. They are trying to “defame the Afghan turbans and chase the Afghans from their ancient traditions and try to scare them into not wearing their turbans,” he said.

On the back streets of Kabul’s central bazaar, where the turbans are sold neatly folded, thin as a pamphlet and wrapped in torn pages from old glossy magazines, many turban wearers are so angry about the situation that they blame the Americans. Before their arrival, intrusive searches were unknown.

“My father, my grandfather, my great-grandfather, my prophet wore a turban, and that’s why I wear it,” said an older man, looking irritable at the question, adding: “Who brought these turban bombers and turban searchers? You did,” he said angrily, referring to Westerners, which many Afghans feel are agents of the decline of the society.

Many clerics take a more contemplative view. Faith transcends costume, and a man can pray in any outfit as long as the prayer comes from the heart, but it is an honor to God to dress properly, said Abdul Raouf Nafee, the mullah at the Herati mosque in central Kabul.

As an example, he talked about butchers: “Even if their clothes are dirty with blood, they can pray and God will accept their prayers, but it’s kind of disrespectful. God likes beauty and organization, but he will accept your prayers,” Mr. Nafee said.

Sitting on a floor cushion as he read the Koran early one morning in a small room just off his mosque’s prayer hall, Mr. Nafee wore a simple white cap. His turban was neatly prepared and waiting on a couch for the midday prayer when he would don it. A man of both poetry and pragmatism, he views the turban as a link between the holy life and people’s physical needs.

The turban, like the traditional blanket or shawl worn by men and the chador worn by women, is practical as well as religious and cultural, he said. “You are covered to keep off the dust — and now the pollution,” he said. “If you are cold, you can wrap it around you for warmth, you can sit on it, you can use it to tie an animal, a sheep or a goat, and you can use the turban’s cap to carry water.”

There is also a darker view of turban attacks: that the bombers were so distraught that their turbans’ holiness no longer mattered, and that they were forced to use any means available to take revenge on the Americans.

“Is it wrong to respond to the killings of the civilians that you do with your drones, that shoot from the air and do not even have pilots?” asked Hajji Ahmad Farid, a mullah and a conservative member of Parliament from an insurgent-dominated area of Kapisa Province, near Kabul. “Think about why a man blows himself up: Some foreign soldiers go to his house and accuse him and tie his hands and dishonor him and search his wife and his daughters, and this poor man is just watching and can do nothing.

“When a man has lost his dignity, he does not care about his shawl or his turban.”
612 2011-10-16 In every depression the nation has faced, there have been proposals for the government to do just this: increase spending on public improvements to create jobs for the unemployed.

An article in The St. Louis Post-Dispatch, written in 1877, during the 1873-79 depression, argued that the government could create a great many infrastructure jobs. “There are many needed improvements: the construction of the Texas and Pacific Railroad, the widening of the entrances to the Mississippi, the diking of its alluvial blanks, the clearing of obstructions from the beds of the great rivers of the West, the improvement of the harbors and rivers in the East, the completion of the post offices, custom houses, seawalls, breakwaters and other useful works of a national character,” the article said.

An article in The New York Times, written in 1893, during the 1893-97 depression, described public improvements to relieve unemployment and said there were plenty of things that could be done to create jobs: “building of lines of rapid transit, widening and deepening the Erie Canal, improving the Mississippi, and building canals across the peninsula of Michigan.”

BUT neither of those proposals got very far back then, because either substantial tax increases or substantial debt increases were politically unacceptable. State, local and federal governments were limited mainly to accelerating the use of existing revenue (or only slightly increasing their borrowing) or to coordinating voluntary donations for infrastructure projects. One observer wrote in The Chicago Daily Tribune in 1877 that it was an outrage “when the government exacts a tax for subsidizing any business scheme, for providing public improvements that are not needed, or in any other enterprise which is intended merely to furnish work for the unemployed.”

In 1894 in St. Louis, the city government backed a campaign to secure private donations to create an artificial recreational lake with picturesque islands in Forest Park. Called the “Lake Poor Fund,” it appealed to dual motives: to improve the city and to hire the unemployed. It paid 750 of the jobless to dig with shovels and picks. (The steam shovel hadn’t yet fully emerged as a dominant technology.) The lake was completed within the year, and city residents still enjoy it today.

It was not until the Great Depression of the 1930s that financing infrastructure programs through serious deficit spending was prominently advocated. A revolution in economic thinking, led by John Maynard Keynes, enabled us to think of the economy as something that can spontaneously fail, that the government can stimulate to get going again and make everyone better off.

In his 1988 book, “The Origins of the Keynesian Revolution,” Robert W. Dimand, a historian of economic thought at Brock University in Canada, says that precursors of Keynes-like thinking about economic stimulus can be traced back to the 1890s, but that their reasoning was muddled and unpersuasive. It was not until 1931, in one of the most influential scholarly economic articles of all time, that Richard F. Kahn, a 25-year-old student of Keynes, clarified his mentor’s ideas and showed how a little government stimulus could have what we now call a multiplier effect.

Mr. Kahn assumed that there would be debt financing of stimulative spending, saying that the effects of increased balanced-budget expenditures — spending that is fully paid for by tax increases — were “a matter for separate study” which, in fact, he never got around to. The terms “multiplier” and “deficit spending” were coined soon thereafter.

Making everyone better off, and a lot better off through the power of the multiplier, was the key to the idea’s success in the political arena.

It wasn’t until the 1940s that economists realized that a balanced-budget stimulus could be effective, too. As I’ve discussed in earlier columns, economists starting with Walter S. Salant and Paul A. Samuelson realized that during a depression or in near-depression conditions, any government expenditure fully funded by taxes will increase national income approximately one for one, without raising national debt. This is known as the balanced-budget multiplier.

The public improvements suggested in the president’s proposal would have been fully paid for by the bill’s tax surcharge. And any new legislation we now consider could also pay for such improvements with tax increases, so as not to raise the national debt even temporarily. This idea should still have common-sense appeal to Americans in this time of high unemployment, just as the idea of winter work does on the farm.
613 2011-10-16 Mr. Perry’s aides said then and insist now that the ad was designed only to tie Mr. Hightower to a well-known liberal, but at the time it prompted a furor among black lawmakers. They compared it to the 1988 Willie Horton ad, which used pictures of a menacing-looking criminal, a black man who had been furloughed from prison when Michael S. Dukakis, the Democratic presidential nominee, was the governor of Massachusetts.

“The whole point was: there I am with a black man,” Mr. Hightower recalled in an interview last week. “It was an overt play to the racist vote.”

Mr. Hightower is speaking out now, after years of silence, because he finally received a detailed description of it two decades after it aired. Neither Mr. Hightower nor any of his former senior campaign staff members could find a copy of it either, and he said he felt like he needed to refresh his memory.

Mr. Hightower, who had been heavily favored to win re-election, remembered that the ad gave Mr. Perry, then a state representative, momentum in the closing days of the campaign. Mr. Perry narrowly won the race, with 49 percent of the vote to Mr. Hightower’s 47 percent.

After the ad began running, supporters told Mr. Hightower that “a white hand and black hand together” was hurting him.

“I think today people would reject it,” Mr. Hightower said. “I don’t know that you would run an ad like that today.”

After the commercial was broadcast, black leaders called on Mr. Perry to pull it. Representative Larry Evans, Democrat of Houston and the chairman of the Texas Legislative Black Caucus in the House, wrote Mr. Perry a letter complaining that it bordered on “race baiting.”

At the time, Mr. Evans was serving with Mr. Perry in the House, and he called his colleague “an honorable and racially sensitive man.”

“We have known each other for a long time, and I am certain that such a campaign tactic is beneath you and that you would not allow such tactics to continue,” Mr. Evans said.

“Given the foregoing, and in the spirit of genuine racial harmony,” he added, “please refrain from campaign tactics which appeal to the worse in us all.”

Mr. Perry, exhibiting his no-apologies campaign strategy, turned the fire right back on his critics. According to a 1990 account in The Houston Post, Mr. Perry said the “charge that I’m a racist just because of using a picture of he and Jackson is a despicable, low-life smear.” He refused to pull the ads and said Mr. Hightower owed Texans an apology for “injecting racism into this election.”

Mark Miner, now a spokesman for Mr. Perry, said the ad was simply a “contrast on issues between candidates” and had no racial motivation. He said the campaign would not release it because it did not have anything to do with Mr. Perry’s presidential campaign.

The Political Communication Center at the University of Oklahoma, which keeps the archive of commercials and allowed the Tribune to review the ad, said it did not hold the copyright and could not allow it to be copied or broadcast.
614 2011-10-16 If Mr. De Feis, who runs the theater with the help of his daughter Danae, felt any sadness, he didn’t show it.

“You’re so actively involved in the work,” he said to explain his calm demeanor. “It’s when the work is done that you can realize how much it’s meant to people.”

At the Vanderbilt Museum, the theater will have fewer seats — around 100 instead of the more than 200 offered by the Main Stage. There will be no equivalent of the Second Stage, a theater with 90 seats that adjoined the Main Stage in East Farmingdale and hosted adventurous plays like Sam Shepard’s “True West” and new works.

John Leone, 45, of East Meadow, the male lead in the Neil Simon play, had praised Mr. De Feis in his postperformance speech for mounting challenging plays instead of a diet of the old musicals that he said many Long Island theaters favored. Since 1988, Arena has also produced outdoor Shakespeare performances, moving them to the Vanderbilt in 1996.

Mr. De Feis founded his company in 1950 near Pittsburgh, where he headed the drama department at Duquesne University. He later moved it to a series of locations — a Brooklyn Y.W.C.A., the fifth floor of a control tower at Idlewild Airport (now Kennedy International Airport) in Queens and various dinner theaters and libraries on Long Island — before finding his spot in East Farmingdale.

At the Vanderbilt, Arena is presenting the first Long Island production of Yasmina Reza’s “God of Carnage,” a 2009 Broadway hit, through Nov. 6, the start of a five-month, five-play season in Centerport. During the yearlong season that just ended, Arena produced 14 Main Stage and four Second Stage plays.

Lance Reinheimer, the interim executive director of the Vanderbilt, said he planned to offer Arena subscribers discounted museum memberships and hoped the shows would bring new visitors.

The museum has made improvements, like new paint and refinished floors, to its Carriage House, where the plays will be presented, Mr. Reinheimer said. Arena moved 100 padded seats and lighting equipment from its old location, Mr. De Feis said.

Some theatergoers at the final performance, like Carol Mazzochi of Huntington, said they would continue to attend Arena productions.

Even though the new location is closer to her home, Ms. Mazzochi said, she was sorry to see the closing of the old theater. “It’s because you feel so much a part of it,” she said.

Other longtime audience members, like Rudi and Evelyn Zainfeld of Massapequa, said Centerport would be too far for them. “We’re going to miss the plays,” Mr. Zainfeld said.

Some of the sets, props and costumes, which had been kept in a workshop behind the theater, are being put in storage, Mr. De Feis said, while the rest were auctioned; Arena will vacate the building by the end of this month. After the final performance, Fred Sprauer, Arena’s set designer since 1982, dismantled scenery, which he and others carried outside to await disposal. In the lobby, a sign advertised scripts for $2 each.

An improvisational group that was based at the theater, Second Stage Improv Comedy, or 2 S.I.C., will look for another home, according to its leader, Christopher Hahn of Setauket. Mr. Hahn said he acted in a Shakespeare production at the Vanderbilt in 1996 under Mr. De Feis’s direction.

“It was a real treat to work with him,” Mr. Hahn said on the phone. “He just loves theater.”

He added, “So many actors have come through there, some of them now famous, who learned from Fred.”

Among the now famous is Edie Falco, who acted in several children’s shows and two Main Stage plays; her mother, Judith Anderson, of East Northport, has appeared at Arena frequently.

In a telephone interview, Ms. Falco said she was sad that the theater was leaving its longtime home.

“My whole life, it’s been there,” she said. “It’s part of my family’s history.”

Her mother would take her along to watch every rehearsal and performance of plays she was in. “Clearly that’s when I first became addicted to this whole thing,” said Ms. Falco, who is best known for her role in “The Sopranos” on HBO.

Ms. Anderson, who attended the theater’s final performance, was in tears afterward. “I had to see Fred at the last show,” she said.

As she spoke, Adrienne Pellegrino of Plainview, another actress, slipped into the lobby from a side door. She had been “walking around the stage, trying to recapture the memories,” she said, adding, “I’ve had the time of my life here.”

Mr. De Feis, too, said he had “lots of wonderful memories” and was happy the theater was “still alive.”

“I want to keep active, not fade away,” he said.
615 2011-10-16 The large production capacity of Pindar Vineyards in Peconic exploits economies of scale that translate into low prices for consumers. That’s alluring these days.

Pindar, owned by Dr. Herodotus Damianos, known as Dan, and his family, encompasses 325 planted North Fork acres. Dr. Damianos’s son Jason directs the winemaking; another son, Pindar, oversees the vines.

The 17 varieties of grapes grown yield 24 different wines and an annual output of about 70,000 cases. Pindar Vineyards, catering to bus and limousine wine-country tourism, is among the most heavily visited North Fork estates. Its Port Jefferson retail store has a tasting bar.

I have long been a fan of its Autumn Gold, Winter White, Spring Splendor and Summer Blush, all simple nonvintage wines. At 20,000 cases sold a year, Winter White is the property’s most popular label, Jason Damianos said in a phone interview.

These amiable $9.99 wines, showing some sweetness, are easy to drink, evoking well-made carafe wines that brighten restaurant lunches.

Winter White, made from Cayuga White grapes bought in the Finger Lakes, works nicely as an aperitif. Autumn Gold, a chardonnay-seyval blanc blend, is a beverage for seafood. Spring Splendor, a rosé drawn from different red grapes yearly and blended with juice that Pindar makes from purchased cranberries, would go well with a hot dog (hold the mustard and sauerkraut). Summer Blush, an energetic, berrylike rosé combining various reds, is a good match for lamb burgers.
616 2011-10-16 THE Scion iQ stretches out just a tenth of an inch beyond 10 feet long, but it packs some slick engineering into that short space. Maybe too much slick engineering.

The iQ’s cleverness is most obvious in how Toyota engineers managed to shove seats for four passengers into a shell that’s 26.5 inches shorter than a two-door Mini Cooper. That was accomplished with neat tricks like a compact ventilation system that nestles as a single unit behind the center dash panel; the shape of the dash itself, which is recessed on the passenger side to provide a few more inches of space; front passenger seat tracks that are set forward a bit, relative to the driver’s seat, for more rear legroom; and very thin seats.

But the rear seat is tiny, best reserved for a single third passenger sprawled crossways. Even then, that passenger will be able to tolerate only short trips. And when the second-row seat is in use, only 3.5 cubic feet of cargo space remains. In fact, the rear seat is so close to the rear window that this is the first car with a back window air bag to cushion rear-passenger brainpans in a crash.

With the rear seat folded down, a useful 16.7 cubic feet of storage is available. And every iQ’s interior features a full suite of 11 air bags. The iQ has not yet received crash-test ratings from either the federal government or the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety.

The driver and front passenger get a nice ride, though. The iQ’s seats are thin, but they conform to almost any body shape and are upholstered in attractive and rugged fabric. The instrumentation itself is logical, informative and easy to scan. Atop the center dash is a large pod that contains a Pioneer audio head unit; just below that are three knobs that control ventilation. Every switch operates with precision and every plastic surface has a pleasing texture.

Best of all, the driver has a thick three-spoke steering wheel that’s covered in rich, red-stitched black leather. It’s the sort of steering wheel that would look great in a sports car; it promises a great drive even before the engine is started.

What the IQ doesn’t deliver is that great drive. Even though Scion says the iQ weighs in at only 2,127 pounds, there are only 94 horsepower and 89 pound feet of torque from its all-aluminum tiny twin-cam engine to push it around. And those horses have to pull through a continuously variable automatic transmission that’s no fun at all. Slam down the throttle and the engine settles into a drone near its peak torque at 4,400 r.p.m., and slowly builds speed.

It’s not just that Scion says this car takes 11.8 seconds to reach 60 m.p.h., but that it does it in such an aggravating way. In the rest of the world, where the iQ is sold as a Toyota (or as the bizarre $48,000 Aston Martin Cygnet), a manual transmission is available.

The suspension is a simple mix of MacPherson struts in front and a torsion-beam axle in the back, but it works well with its all-season tires on 16-inch wheels, and the electrically assisted power steering has a good feel. But every time the iQ is about to drive entertainingly, the variable transmission — which lacks discrete gears — ruins the performance. It’s beyond frustrating.

Beyond all that, the iQ is dearly priced. At $15,995 it can be shopped against larger, more useful cars like the Ford Fiesta ($13,995), Hyundai Accent ($13,205) and Honda Fit ($15,945). All of them are more fun to drive and return similar or better fuel economy.

With the right engine and transmission, the iQ would be a fine slicer for urban traffic. As is, though, this mouse is not as mighty as Scion thinks it is.
617 2011-10-16 A  GENERATION ago, teenagers in Silicon Valley were using their parents’ garages to start great American technology companies and boot up the computer revolution. Now those garages are places to plug in the electric cars that may radically change the direction of personal transportation.

Like the computer clubs that helped to foster the enthusiasm of budding programmers, gatherings of electric car owners here are providing forums for the exchange of ideas. When a group of Bay Area Leaf owners assembles for its monthly meetings, the discussions more closely resemble the E.V. technology seminars at nearby Stanford University than what you would find at the friendly neighborhood car club.

The activities in Leaf owners’ groups have caught Nissan’s attention. “These groups are springing up everywhere,” said Brendan Jones, director of marketing and sales strategy for the Leaf. “We can’t take the credit. The customers have done it on their own.”

Howard Clearfield volunteers his time as the coordinator for the Bay Area group, known as Bay Leaf. An applications manager at a solar energy company, Mr. Clearfield holds a Ph.D. in material science. “I hope Nissan will see our optimism and our depth of thinking,” he said, “and that our ideas will be used in the next-generation Leaf.”

Gary Lieber, a software product manager who has worked for Apple and Microsoft and participates in the Bay Area group, said members came largely from the computer industry. “They are not afraid to get into the car and poke and prod in areas that until lately have been sealed off,” he said.
618 2011-10-16 Credit: William Widmer for The New York Times
619 2011-10-16 It is an occupational hazard of being a writer to be appalled by the prose style you deployed in your youth. Most of the time the flaws reflect unchecked enthusiasm, or literary clichés that have not yet worn away, or a certain inability to settle on a defined voice. But reading my own college juvenilia, I have a strange and almost total sense of disconnection. This is from a paper I wrote at the age of 19:

“The predicament of any tropological analysis of narrative always lies in its own effaced and circuitous recourse to a metaphoric mode of apprehending its object; the rigidity and insistence of its taxonomies and the facility with which it relegates each vagabond utterance to a strict regimen of possible enunciative formations testifies to a constitutive faith that its own interpretive meta-language will approximate or comply with the linguistic form it examines.”

I was a sophomore in college, and my voice on the page sounded like that of a 60-year-old Sorbonne professor, badly translated from the French.

But writing those sentences — and there are thousands like them still tracing their vagabond utterances on my hard drive — turned out to be a critical part of my education. I was, you see, a semiotics major at Brown University, during a remarkable spell in the 1980s when semiotics was allegedly the third-most-popular major in the humanities there, despite being a field (and a word) that drew nothing but blank stares at family cocktail parties and job interviews. “Ah, semiotics,” a distant relative once said to me during winter break. “The study of how plants grow in light. Very important field.”

The obscurity of the field was partly the point. In Jeffrey Eugenides’s new novel, “The Marriage Plot,” which takes place in part at Brown in the early 1980s, the heroine first stumbles across the semiotics program when a friend comes home with a copy of Jacques Derrida’s “Of Grammatology”: “When Madeleine asked what the book was about, she was given to understand by Whitney that the idea of a book being ‘about’ something was exactly what this book was against, and that, if it was ‘about’ anything, then it was about the need to stop thinking of books as being about things.”

Greek for the “science of signs,” semiotics as a field dates back to fin de siècle philosophers and linguists like C. S. Peirce and Ferdinand De Saussure; in modern times it is most commonly associated with Umberto Eco. The general thrust of pure semiotics is a kind of linguistics-based social theory; if language shapes our thought, and our thought shapes our culture, then if we are looking for a master key to make sense of culture, it makes sense to start with the fundamental structures of language itself: signs, symbols, metaphors, narrative devices, figures of speech. You could interpret a Reagan speech using these tools as readily as you could a Nike ad.

Yet when I arrived at Brown in the mid-80s, there were dozens of splinter groups huddled beneath the semiotics flag: Derrida’s deconstruction, post-Freudian psychoanalysis, postfeminism, poststructuralism, cultural studies. (We were post- a lot of things, it seemed at the time.) Insiders rarely talked about “semiotics,” in fact. The umbrella term was just Theory, with a capital T. Theorists like Derrida and Michel Foucault were heroes on many college campuses around that time, but somehow having a dedicated major that announced your allegiance — instead of hiding behind a more traditional degree in philosophy or English — made the affinity more pronounced.
620 2011-10-16 Philip Roth, writing in these pages two decades ago, called the virtuosic Israeli writer Aharon Appelfeld “a displaced writer of displaced fiction, who has made of displacement and disorientation a subject uniquely his own.” Indeed, “Until the Dawn’s Light,” Appelfeld’s masterly and finely wrought 16th novel, begins with a displacement. The year is 1912; a young mother, Blanca Hammer, is fleeing by train with her 4-year-old son, Otto, from some unnamed menace, toward an unknown destination. “It all transpired quickly and with frightening precision,” Appelfeld writes, “as though they were no longer their own masters but in the hands of the railways, which treated them mercifully and moved them from place to place, almost without pain.”

Almost is the operative word here. From the novel’s opening lines, we sense the pain and urgency behind Blanca’s flight. In Appelfeld’s characteristic manner — that is, with a deftness that allows single words to suggest volumes of emotional complication — he draws us into this young mother’s story and makes us wonder what she’s fleeing from, and to. The answers to those questions constitute both the story line and the sociohistorical backdrop of this remarkable novel, expertly translated by Jeffrey M. Green.

Soon after the novel begins, Blanca and Otto reach a safe haven of sorts, a small vine-covered cottage in a village beside a broad river. As they rest from their travels, Blanca begins a memoir for her son. Driven by a desire to tell her painful story, and to exculpate herself from her increasingly grave misdeeds, she pieces together the events of the past five years of her life. She is, we learn, the daughter of Jewish parents: a frustrated would-be mathematician turned shopkeeper, and a loving mother whose chronic illness overshadowed much of Blanca’s childhood. Both parents lost some element of their connection to Judaism early on, though it was her father who more willfully cut those ties. Blanca’s maternal grandmother, on the other hand, is the town’s most passionate upholder of the faith. When the local synagogue closes its doors because so many congregants have converted, Grandma Carole stations herself on the steps and condemns the apostates at the top of her lungs, calling down the fire of God upon them.

Among those apostates is Blanca herself, who converted to Roman Catholicism before her marriage to a young man of godlike physical stature. This (rather distractingly and forebodingly named) young man, Adolf Hammer, is a former high school classmate of Blanca’s; his failures at mathematics and Latin, delivered at the hands of Jewish teachers, feed his pre-existing anti-Semitism. Despite being Jewish herself, Blanca shares a certain degree of his distaste for Jews, and their marriage represents another departure: from her parents’ house and faith.

Not long after their wedding, Adolf begins to beat Blanca, ostensibly to purge her of the last vestiges of her Judaism and to drive Austrian strength into her. His brutal abuse soon reduces her to a state of paralytic fear. In her writings to Otto she wonders, as the reader does, how she was transformed from a brilliant mathematics student, a young woman “who stood on her own two feet, someone with an awareness of the world,” to a powerless creature “afraid of every shadow,” who “wanted only to do his will, like a maidservant.” Her decision to marry Adolf, we learn, came at a time when her mother was dying of tuberculosis and her father sinking into a bereavement that would consume him. Death had seemed “like a yawning abyss,” she reflects, “and she had escaped to Adolf, sure that Adolf was the fortified castle over which death had no dominion.”

Blanca’s new husband forces her first to neglect her mother, and then, when her mother dies, to abandon her disoriented, mourning father in a Jewish old-age home, from which he soon disappears. In her guilt and grief, Blanca turns to a worker at the home, Theresa, who is herself the survivor of an abusive marriage. “The main thing is not to be afraid,” Theresa tells her. “Those who are afraid are punished doubly.” She advises Blanca to get a job at a well-run Jewish old-age home in the town of Blumenthal, where the residents will tip her handsomely and where she’ll have time to recover her strength of body and mind. Pregnancy and new motherhood delay Blanca from following that advice, but when Adolf himself demands she get work, she travels to Blumenthal and secures the job. Her new position promises some relief from his beatings, but it means, too, that she has to abandon her adored infant son to the care of a housekeeper. “Until now she had been in this prison, and tomorrow she would be transferred to another one,” Appelfeld writes, neatly capturing her powerlessness and despair.
621 2011-10-16 At St. Francis Academy, the Catholic girls’ high school you attended in Illinois, you played tennis and were the captain of the cheerleading team. Then you suddenly quit to become a sullen Goth. Why? 

I remember being in a pep rally, and I heard one of the coaches of the boys’ teams making a dumb joke about the dumb cheerleaders, and I thought, Are you kidding me? I’m out there doing back handsprings and aerials on blacktop to cheer for your stupid team that, by the way, is not doing that well. And you’re in here with the guys making fun of it? I was like, I’m done.

What did the nuns think of the black lipstick? 

 There was one nun that hated my guts for actually no reason, and at one point in a closed office, she said, “I’m gonna get you this year.” I was like — you’re a nun, do you think you should be saying that to people?

Before you started acting, you did stand-up in New York. Were you funny? 

I think I was. I didn’t really know how to write jokes, so I just told weird long stories about being tall and beautiful and wealthy in New York. I’d tell them very seriously, but I kind of looked like a drag queen at the time with big wigs and crazy 12-inch platform heels.

Your performance as the butch, sexually aggressive Megan in “Bridesmaids” was so convincing that I wondered if there’s a part of your personality that would pin a man against a wall with your leg and say: “You feel that heat coming off of me? That’s coming off my undercarriage.” 

That’s so not my personality. I’m very boring. But I’m a bit obsessed with women that are so incredibly solid in their shoes that they don’t care what other people think of them. I just think there’s something so interesting about that kind of confidence.

Your husband, Ben Falcone, who played Air Marshall Jon in “Bridesmaids,” was in the cast of “Joey,” one of the most critically maligned spinoffs in history. What would he say when he got home from work? 

He sometimes talked about his “critically acclaimed” work on the ever-loved show “Joey.” He still occasionally brings out a DVD and sets it down on the table in front of me — then he walks away. He does a little Vanna White.

You met at the Groundlings, the famous Los Angeles improv company. Was it a pretty incestuous crew? 

No. And Ben and I were really good friends for a year, if not more. Basically, everybody would go home from the Snake Pit after too many beers, and Ben and I, our bad excuse was, “I’ll have one more!” It was like we risked becoming raging alcoholics just to finally be like, “I kinda really like you.” We got up our courage through lots and lots of low-quality beer.
622 2011-10-16 Credit: Michael Kirby Smith for The New York Times
623 2011-10-16 The Trend     Strangers in the Night. Top off a classic party ensemble with something so minimal, so utilitarian, so easy to comprehend: a clean-lined evening sweatshirt. Cashmere at Talbots, crew neck at the Row and cropped at Givenchy....
624 2011-10-16 WEISS--Piero, on October 2, 2011. Dr. Piero Weiss, 83, pianist and professor of music history, survived by Carole Weiss; his children Antonio Weiss and Maria Weiss Leandri, all of New York; his brother Carlo Weiss, of Como, Italy; and grandchildre...
625 2011-10-16 APPLEBAUM--Adele, on October 14, 2011. Beloved mother of Barry Applebaum and Beth Manitsky, dear mother-in-law of Jonathan Manitsky. Adored grandmother of Kate and Rebecca, sister-in-law of Roberta Krackov, loving aunt of Mimi, Beth, Pat, Joe and ...
626 2011-10-16 The 4-1 San Francisco 49ers will face the 5-0 Detroit Lions on Sunday, and if it feels as though it has been a while since they have had a relevant game against each other, that is because it has been. Although the former N.F.L. West foes have pla...
627 2011-10-16 The Trend     Prim Time. You can change the dress -- strait-laced, governess ensembles -- but you can't change how hot they look at Prabal Gurung, Marc Jacobs and Carven....
628 2011-10-17 The underwriters of the public offering of Groupon shares, the hottest of the year, seemed to have overlooked signs of problems at the start-up....
629 2011-10-17 The underwriters of the public offering of Groupon shares, the hottest of the year, seemed to have overlooked signs of problems at the start-up....
630 2011-10-17 What the "I'm Feeling Lucky" button actually does in Google's Picasa photo-editing software to make pictures look better....
631 2011-10-17 What the "I'm Feeling Lucky" button actually does in Google's Picasa photo-editing software to make pictures look better....
632 2011-10-17 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
633 2011-10-17 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
634 2011-10-17 William C. Rhoden discusses the contradiction of calling Ryan Fitzpatrick an underdog.
635 2011-10-17 The de facto first lady of New York, appearing on a panel about women's economic empowerment, directed her attention not to "glass ceilings" but to the advantages of being a woman in the marketplace....
636 2011-10-17 The de facto first lady of New York, appearing on a panel about women's economic empowerment, directed her attention not to "glass ceilings" but to the advantages of being a woman in the marketplace....
637 2011-10-17 Mr. Cuomo and Mr. McCall have grown to be allies since their bitter primary battle a decade ago, which, at the time, looked as if it dealt a fatal blow to Mr. Cuomo's political career....
638 2011-10-17 Mr. Cuomo and Mr. McCall have grown to be allies since their bitter primary battle a decade ago, which, at the time, looked as if it dealt a fatal blow to Mr. Cuomo's political career....
639 2011-10-17 Underpinning Kinder Morgan's $21.1 billion takeover of El Paso is a big financing commitment from Barclays Capital, one that the pipeline operator intends to pay down quickly....
640 2011-10-17 Underpinning Kinder Morgan's $21.1 billion takeover of El Paso is a big financing commitment from Barclays Capital, one that the pipeline operator intends to pay down quickly....
641 2011-10-17 Another recipe that's perfect for a tailgate party, this one for jambalaya, from the commissioner of tailgating himself....
642 2011-10-17 Another recipe that's perfect for a tailgate party, this one for jambalaya, from the commissioner of tailgating himself....
643 2011-10-17 Four scenes from Frieze Stock Footage, Oliver Laric’s video featured at the Frieze Art Fair.
644 2011-10-17 The man whose grandfather chiseled the missing St. Patrick's cornerstone wondered whether the family story was true....
645 2011-10-17 The man whose grandfather chiseled the missing St. Patrick's cornerstone wondered whether the family story was true....
646 2011-10-17 An eight-year veteran of the city police force falsely charged a man with resisting arrest and then bragged to a friend that he had "fried another nigger," federal prosecutors say....
647 2011-10-17 An eight-year veteran of the city police force falsely charged a man with resisting arrest and then bragged to a friend that he had "fried another nigger," federal prosecutors say....
648 2011-10-17 The mother of a terminally ill child writes that her story is not that different from the rest of ours: we are all preparing for when our children leave us, or we leave them....
649 2011-10-17 The mother of a terminally ill child writes that her story is not that different from the rest of ours: we are all preparing for when our children leave us, or we leave them....
650 2011-10-17 Plus: After the last three years, do you still have waste to remove and efficiencies to gain?...
651 2011-10-17 Plus: After the last three years, do you still have waste to remove and efficiencies to gain?...
652 2011-10-17 G4S, the world's biggest provider of security services, agreed to buy a Danish rival, ISS, for about $8.2 billion with debt, accelerating its expansion in Asia and Latin America....
653 2011-10-17 G4S, the world's biggest provider of security services, agreed to buy a Danish rival, ISS, for about $8.2 billion with debt, accelerating its expansion in Asia and Latin America....
654 2011-10-17 A digest of recent Times articles with implications for those applying to college, now or in the near future....
655 2011-10-17 A digest of recent Times articles with implications for those applying to college, now or in the near future....
656 2011-10-17 EMI’s publishing unit has drawn offers of $1.75 billion to $2 billion from Sony and BMG Rights Management, a joint venture between Kohlberg Kravis & Roberts and the German media giant Bertelsmann. In addition, some of these companies have made offers for the entire company, but those bids are said to be lower than what Citi would get by splitting the company up.

Those companies declined to comment, as did Citi.

Many analysts say they believe the auction is simply the victim of bad timing. Tightened credit markets have made it more difficult for potential buyers to finance their offers, and nervous banks have required bidders to put up more equity.

“The global economy is in a different place than it was in February or March,” when the Warner auction began, said Ben Rumley, a media analyst with Enders Analysis in London. “Everything you read in the news indicates that it is difficult to raise financing for any business, let alone music. It’s not the greatest time to be looking for debt financing.”

Bidders have also sought to limit their exposure to EMI’s pension liabilities, which by some estimates could be as high as $600 million.

Despite the interest in Warner, there are persistent doubts about the health and investment value of large music companies. Among those concerns are the labels’ ability to shoulder the transition from physical to digital sales. New digital services like Spotify, which sell access to music by subscription, have generated excitement but are not profitable.

“The music market is continuing to contract more quickly than record labels’ digital strategies can offset,” said Mark Mulligan, an independent analyst of the music industry. “For a prospective buyer, that brings the serious consideration of waiting until the market bottoms out and getting most value then.”

Since most of the bidders are other major music companies, the auction faces regulatory complications in the United States and Europe. EMI’s record division is the smallest of the four major companies, with about 9 percent market share. But its publishing division — which controls the copyright for the music and the lyrics underlying songs — is one of the largest and most successful, with about 20 percent market share.

Depending on which company or companies win the auction, that could mean that EMI’s recorded music and publishing halves could be further carved up as a pre-emptive move to satisfy antitrust regulators.

The last round of bids for EMI were submitted to Citi earlier this month, but the people involved with the auction said that the bank had not given an indication of when it would make a decision. These people said that it could take weeks, and that there was still the chance that Citi could postpone the auction until market conditions — and bids — improve.
657 2011-10-17 BEIJING — A 19-year-old former monk in a Tibetan town in western China set himself on fire on Saturday in a desperate plea for Tibetan independence, according to reports on Sunday by Tibet advocacy groups. The flames were put out by police officers stationed on the street, and he was taken to a police station, the reports said.

The former monk, Norbu Damdrul, was the eighth monk or former monk to set himself on fire to protest China since March. All the self-immolations have taken place in Tibetan areas of Sichuan Province that lie in the remote region Tibetans call Amdo. At least four Tibetans have killed themselves in the wave of self-immolations, which scholars of modern Tibet say are a new and startling protest strategy by monks.

The attempt at self-immolation by Norbu was the seventh one this year in the town of Aba, called Ngaba by Tibetans. All of them have involved monks from Kirti Monastery, an institution that was a rallying point during the widespread Tibetan uprising in 2008.

Reports by advocacy groups say at least 10 Tibetans were killed by security forces during protests in Aba that spring. Many of the bodies were brought into Kirti, where monks took digital photographs of the corpses and transmitted them to people outside China. The photographs have been shown to foreign reporters visiting Kirti’s sister monastery in Dharamsala, India, the seat of power of the Tibetan government-in-exile and the Dalai Lama, Tibet’s spiritual leader.

Since the 2008 uprising, tension has built around Kirti Monastery, and at least 300 monks were taken away by security forces one night this April. They were sent to undergo “patriotic re-education,” according to reports by Tibetan groups, and many have not returned.

On Saturday, Norbu shouted, “We need freedom and independence for Tibet” as he set himself aflame, according to a report by the International Campaign for Tibet, an advocacy group based in Washington that has contacts inside Tibetan areas. Norbu also called for the return of the Dalai Lama to Tibet. The group’s sources said Norbu had lived with his parents since June 2010, and it was unclear under what circumstances he had left Kirti.

Norbu’s act “provides further evidence that Tibetans now feel that setting fire to themselves is their only recourse,” Stephanie Brigden, the director of Free Tibet, a London-based group, said in a written statement. A report released this month by the Congressional-Executive Commission on China, a bipartisan group under the United States Congress, noted the intense repression in Tibetan areas.
658 2011-10-17 Since we like cats and had a few minutes to spare before our curtain, we stopped to chat. The man seemed eager to answer all our questions.

As we bid him a good evening and turned away, he stopped us by saying: “Hey! I don’t do this for fun, you know!”

As we sheepishly slipped him a few bucks, we couldn’t help but think, “So much for being seasoned New Yorkers.”

It was a tight parking spot on a narrow Brooklyn street, and the one lane of rush hour traffic behind me was in no mood to wait.

I backed in quickly to let the cars pass. Too quickly: crash. No damage, but a loud noise came from the license plates.

Passers-by turned their heads, and the lips of six construction guys waiting on the stoop five feet away moved sideways. My window was closed so I couldn’t hear what they were saying.

I sheepishly pulled forward into the space and ended up a good two feet away from the curb. There was no holding back their laughter. I tried parking again and got only six inches closer. Even more laughter.

On the third go I was finally parked, and I rolled down my window: “I’ll be here every Tuesday to provide you guys entertainment.”

Not too long ago, I was on the subway platform at the 59th Street station, waiting for the uptown No. 1. I was carrying a lot of packages, but didn’t want to sit on the bench next to a homeless-looking man. The heavy packages got the better of me and I sat down.

As a train began its approach into the station, I stood up and peered down the tunnel to see whether it was the local No. 1 or the express No. 2 or 3.

After standing up a couple of times, the homeless-looking man turned to me and said: “The No. 1 makes a rickety sound. The No. 2 and No. 3 do not.”

I checked out his theory on the next couple of trains approaching the station. Sure enough, the rickety sound in the distance signaled the approaching uptown No. 1.

I smiled at the man and thanked him for his help.

I was in the security check line at J.F.K. in June. There was a big sign telling people that guns weren’t allowed and warning that if you had film, you should pass it around the X-ray machines.

The kid in front of me, who was 8 or 9, looked up from his Game Boy and said, “Dad, what’s film?”

I’ve gotten used to “What’s an LP?” but — oy! — “What’s film?”!
659 2011-10-17 ¶Real Hip-Hop Network, a new cable channel that is part of SSM Media Ventures, hired Berlin Cameron United, New York, part of the United unit of WPP, to help introduce the channel on Dish Network and DirecTV in December. Spending was estimated at $15 million. The channel also has a Web site, rhn.tv.

¶Montefiore Medical Center, the university hospital and academic medical center for the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx, selected Cronin & Company, Glastonbury, Conn., and Albany, as its advertising agency of record. Spending was estimated at $3 million. There had been no previous agency of record.

¶William Apfelbaum joined the Media Ventures Group, New York, as chairman, a new post. He had been chairman at Titan Worldwide, New York, which he helped to found in 2001, and before that was chairman and chief executive at TDI, a leading outdoor-advertising company. Mr. Apfelbaum joins executives at Media Ventures who include Richard Yaffa, president and chief executive.

¶Marla Kaplowitz, president for United States clients and head of planning at MEC North America, New York, part of the MEC unit of the GroupM division of WPP, was promoted to chief executive. She succeeds Lee Doyle, who said recently that he would step down “to take a new direction in his career within GroupM and WPP.” ¶James Gassel joined Evolution Bureau, San Francisco, also known as EVB, as president, a post that had been vacant for several years. Mr. Gassel had most recently been a consultant, working with agencies that included EVB.

¶Ed Adler and Kyle Giunta joined the New York office of RLM Finsbury, part of WPP, in new posts, after working together at MediaLink, New York. Mr. Adler becomes a partner; he had been a senior partner at MediaLink, leading the strategic communications practice. Mr. Guinta becomes a senior associate; he had been account director for strategic communications at MediaLink.

¶Ipsos, Paris, completed the acquisition of the Synovate research unit of the Aegis Group, London, for about $834 million.

¶Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, San Francisco, part of the Omnicom Group, won the most gold medals, three, when the 2011 Jay Chiat Awards for Strategic Excellence were presented on Thursday at the Four A’s Strategy Festival. Three agencies each won two golds: Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners; Droga5; and R/GA, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. There were 16 gold medals presented, nine silver and 14 bronze. Also, for the first time, two campaigns were named to share the Grand Prix Award. One, called “For the Joy of Sport” for Puma Social, was created by Droga5. The other, created by Lowe-SSP3, part of the Lowe & Partners Worldwide unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies, was created for the Colombian Ministry of Defense and was intended to encourage the FARC rebels to demobilize.

¶Advertising spending to reach Hispanic consumers totaled $4.3 billion in 2010, according to a survey by the Association of Hispanic Advertising Agencies, up 14 percent from 2009 and not far from its peak in 2007. Also, according to a report produced for the association, marketers that spend significantly for ads in media aimed at Spanish-speaking consumers are recording stronger revenue growth than those that do not.
660 2011-10-17 “Fraud and Online Learning” (editorial, Oct. 6) correctly highlights the financial fraud potential in a distance-learning system in which instructors and students never actually meet. You might have added that the very same system facilitates academic fraud.

Traditional face-to-face education is certainly not free from cheating and plagiarism. But the simple fact that students and teachers actually meet in the same room makes it much more difficult to hire people to take exams.

Along the same lines, close monitoring of the various stages involved in the writing of a class paper cuts down significantly on students’ ability to get away with turning in papers from term-paper mills. It strikes me that there are no safeguards against these things in online education.

The writer is an associate professor of history at Hartwick College.
661 2011-10-17 In the 1973 film “The Last of Sheila,” one of her clients, Dyan Cannon, played a brassy Hollywood agent widely believed to be based on Ms. Mengers.

Like other women in her Hollywood generation, Ms. Mengers started on a bottom-most rung. She joined the M.C.A. talent agency as a receptionist in 1955, then worked her way up to a secretary’s position at the rival William Morris Agency. At a smaller, independent agency, she became a talent agent, with Julie Harris among her early clients.

But the seat of her power was Creative Management Associates, a star-heavy boutique that was run by Mr. Fields. Ms. Mengers joined C.M.A. in the years before a 1975 merger that formed International Creative Management, a giant firm that was known nonetheless for the freewheeling approach of individualists like Ms. Mengers.

As the more buttoned-down, corporate approach of the Creative Artists Agency transformed Hollywood in the 1980s, Ms. Mengers lost some cachet and occasionally clients. Ms. Streisand, who became a client of C.A.A., left her because, Ms. Mengers would later tell The Los Angeles Times, she had resisted “Yentl,” a 1983 film that received five Oscar nominations but did not set the box office on fire.

David Geffen, the record executive and a co-founder of DreamWorks, said of Ms. Mengers in a telephone interview on Sunday, “She walked away because she thought Hollywood was changing.” The loss of Ms. Streisand, he added, was a blow from which she never quite recovered professionally.

After retiring from I.C.M. in 1986, Ms. Mengers briefly returned to agency life in 1988 as the head of a weakened movie department at William Morris. But it was a short-lived comeback, as Ms. Mengers soon left to spend more time with her husband, the Belgian-born filmmaker Jean-Claude Tramont. She became known as a favorite hostess to a wide circle of movie insiders, and more than a few outsiders, like the Vanity Fair editor Graydon Carter, who make a business of observing Hollywood life.

Ms. Mengers remained the center of a lively show business social set that included Lorne Michaels, Warren Beatty and Sherry Lansing, the former studio executive. She left no immediate survivors, Ms. Boatwright said, adding, “Her family were her friends.” Mr. Tramont died in 1996.

Ms. Mengers was born in Hamburg, Germany, on Sept. 2, 1932, according to Ms. Boatwright, to George Mengers and the former Ruth Levy. She came with her family to the United States in the late 1930s, first settling in Utica, N.Y., and then moving to the Bronx. She married Mr. Tramont in 1973.

In the end, said Ms. Boatwright, Ms. Mengers will probably be remembered by most who knew her for one outlandish barb or another.

Ms. Boatwright’s own keepsake moment came in 1968, when she sent Ms. Mengers a note about her joy at being pregnant.

“You swore to me you’d never let him touch you,” Ms. Mengers shot back in a telegram.
662 2011-10-17 EMI’s publishing unit has drawn offers of $1.75 billion to $2 billion from Sony and BMG Rights Management, a joint venture between Kohlberg Kravis & Roberts and the German media giant Bertelsmann. In addition, some of these companies have made offers for the entire company, but those bids are said to be lower than what Citi would get by splitting the company up.

Those companies declined to comment, as did Citi.

Many analysts say they believe the auction is simply the victim of bad timing. Tightened credit markets have made it more difficult for potential buyers to finance their offers, and nervous banks have required bidders to put up more equity.

“The global economy is in a different place than it was in February or March,” when the Warner auction began, said Ben Rumley, a media analyst with Enders Analysis in London. “Everything you read in the news indicates that it is difficult to raise financing for any business, let alone music. It’s not the greatest time to be looking for debt financing.”

Bidders have also sought to limit their exposure to EMI’s pension liabilities, which by some estimates could be as high as $600 million.

Despite the interest in Warner, there are persistent doubts about the health and investment value of large music companies. Among those concerns are the labels’ ability to shoulder the transition from physical to digital sales. New digital services like Spotify, which sell access to music by subscription, have generated excitement but are not profitable.

“The music market is continuing to contract more quickly than record labels’ digital strategies can offset,” said Mark Mulligan, an independent analyst of the music industry. “For a prospective buyer, that brings the serious consideration of waiting until the market bottoms out and getting most value then.”

Since most of the bidders are other major music companies, the auction faces regulatory complications in the United States and Europe. EMI’s record division is the smallest of the four major companies, with about 9 percent market share. But its publishing division — which controls the copyright for the music and the lyrics underlying songs — is one of the largest and most successful, with about 20 percent market share.

Depending on which company or companies win the auction, that could mean that EMI’s recorded music and publishing halves could be further carved up as a pre-emptive move to satisfy antitrust regulators.

The last round of bids for EMI were submitted to Citi earlier this month, but the people involved with the auction said that the bank had not given an indication of when it would make a decision. These people said that it could take weeks, and that there was still the chance that Citi could postpone the auction until market conditions — and bids — improve.
663 2011-10-17 There are many moments in “Visible” when what seems casual is likely to be painstakingly drawn, when multiple layers of sound, text and movement create a kind of symphony. The production still seems half-baked, yet when it coheres, it’s like good jazz: without being literal it finds its way back to its theme.

The work, choreographed by Nora Chipaumire and Jawole Willa Jo Zollar — it was produced by Ms. Zollar’s Urban Bush Women and commissioned by Harlem Stage — explores being a foreigner in America, where ideas of liberty and the pursuit of happiness don’t tell the whole story.

In part “Visible,” seen on Thursday evening at the Harlem Stage Gatehouse, shows what falls between the cracks. Its narrative is dusted with images from the Great Migration, when blacks moved north at the turn of the 20th century, as well as with the appearance of a deity who carries a cane — the cast uses canes for support and, at times, as nooses — and was, among other things, a protector of travelers.

There are six performers with varied backgrounds: Souleymane Badolo (Burkina Faso); Catherine Dénécy (Guadeloupe); Marguerite Hemmings (Jamaica); Judith Jacobs (the Netherlands); John O. Perpener III (the United States) and Kota Yamazaki (Japan). But even though Ms. Zollar’s family moved north to Kansas City, Mo., during the Great Migration, “Visible” seems to be Ms. Chipaumire’s story. (She’s from Zimbabwe.)

Two percussionists, David Alston and Bashir Shakur, perform side by side and are wonderful, as are the costumes by Mr. Yamazaki, who has managed to design danceable sportswear with a Japanese twist. His costumes make the show’s inhabitants — including himself — appear modern, even when their vehement movements bring something more essential, more ancient to the stage.

At times the performers are lost in individual worlds, even when performing in unison; Ms. Dénécy is a force, while Mr. Badolo takes his time, letting the music first seep into his skin before reacting to it. But there are some difficult, literal moments to swallow, as when Ms. Jacobs throws herself on the floor panting hard and screaming lines like “America, built on a colony, telling me to go back to my country!”
664 2011-10-17 GANGEMI--Thomas "Buddy" Jr, age 85, of Ocean Grove, NJ and Scottsdale, AZ died on October 15, 2011. Beloved husband of Regina (Trzanowski); devoted father of Barbara Burns, Carol (Peter) Silverstein, Merry Gangemi, Elizabeth (Russell) Abbott, Thom...
665 2011-10-18 In Prisoner Swap, a Day of Joy and Tension
666 2011-10-18 The ethics committee says it will investigate whether Jesse Jackson Jr. broke House rules by publicly campaigning to be appointed to President Obama's former Senate seat....
667 2011-10-18 The ethics committee says it will investigate whether Jesse Jackson Jr. broke House rules by publicly campaigning to be appointed to President Obama's former Senate seat....
668 2011-10-18 The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said central bankers needed to focus on financial stability as much as inflation....
669 2011-10-18 The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said central bankers needed to focus on financial stability as much as inflation....
670 2011-10-18 Credit: Casey Kelbaugh for The New York Times
671 2011-10-18 HBO's "Real Sports" explores the issue of depression among N.H.L. enforcers....
672 2011-10-18 HBO's "Real Sports" explores the issue of depression among N.H.L. enforcers....
673 2011-10-18 "Captors," play about Eichmann, has eye on Broadway after Boston world premiere....
674 2011-10-18 "Captors," play about Eichmann, has eye on Broadway after Boston world premiere....
675 2011-10-18 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
676 2011-10-18 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
677 2011-10-18 The exchange of Gilad Shalit, an Israeli soldier held by Hamas, for the first batch of more than 1,000 Palestinian prisoners in Israel began on Tuesday....
678 2011-10-18 Images of the prisoner swap began spreading on Tuesday as Israelis celebrated the return of Gilad Shalit and Palestinians welcomed hundreds of freed prisoners home....
679 2011-10-18 Images of the prisoner swap began spreading on Tuesday as Israelis celebrated the return of Gilad Shalit and Palestinians welcomed hundreds of freed prisoners home....
680 2011-10-18 Weighed down by problems in its private equity portfolio and broader global economic woes, the investment bank reported a loss of $428 million, only the second quarterly loss since 1999....
681 2011-10-18 Goldman Sachs, weighed down by problems in its private equity portfolio and the broader global economic woes, reported a loss of $428 million....
682 2011-10-18 Student Opinion: Do You Support Affirmative Action?...
683 2011-10-18 Student Opinion: Do You Support Affirmative Action?...
684 2011-10-18 The two sons of former President Hosni Mubarak have an estimated $340 million in Swiss bank accounts, a senior Egyptian Justice Ministry official said Monday. The official, Assem al-Gohary, said Swiss authorities were investigating whether one of the sons, Alaa, was involved in money laundering along with other former government figures. Switzerland has already frozen the assets of the Mubarak family and other former officials.
685 2011-10-18 The liberal standard-bearer, the Progressive Democratic Party, sometimes known here as the Western party, raced to distance itself from the film. “We are against blasphemy,” said Ahmed Bouazzi, a member of the party’s executive committee. “And we respect the freedom of expression, freedom of speech, freedom of creativity. And we are against violence.”

He acknowledged that this put the party on both sides of the issue. “This is politics,” he said. “We don’t want to get characterized as on the side of unbelievers. We are a party of believers. Most of our members are Muslim.”

Some individual liberals observed with wry satisfaction that the film told the story of a supposedly liberal revolution that turned oppressive after Islamists took power in Tehran — bolstering the liberal argument that Tunisia’s moderate Islamists should not be trusted, either. But among those seeking votes, only one well-known liberal party, the smaller Democratic Modernist Poll, embraced the film, filling a stage with artists at a rally Sunday night in an affluent neighborhood of Tunis and trumpeting its support for freedom of expression. “There is no bad time for art,” said Jalila Bakar, a Tunisian film director.

The party’s founder, Ahmed Ibrahim, added, “Religion and politics should not be put in the same sphere.”

Ennahda, sometimes known here as the Eastern party, has sought to step cautiously. After an initial silence from the party, its founder, Rachid Ghannouchi, reportedly called it a “provocation” to show the movie so close to the election. “I support the Tunisians’ right to denounce this attack on their religion,” he said.

But Said Ferjani, a member of the party’s political bureau, said it was trying to distance itself from both the protesters and the television channel. The party did not want to appear to hold a narrow view of freedom of expression, he argued, which would allow its opponents “to score a point domestically and internationally.”

But the party also risked divisions among some of its supporters if it took the side of the broadcaster. “It would really put pressure on us in term of votes,” he said.

Both sides saw conspiracies. Many liberals argued that the debate had been engineered by Islamists to fire up their followers and demonstrate their strength. Islamists argued that the television station, which they said appeared to lean toward the liberals, had deliberately baited the ultraconservatives to put the mainstream Islamist party in a bind.

Many others noted that the film had been shown before on Tunisian television without incident but in French, the language of Tunisia’s former colonial power and still the second tongue of the elite. This time it was dubbed into the colloquial Tunisian Arabic dialect.

“If it was in French, it would be O.K., maybe because it would seem foreign to you,” said Eya Trabelsi, 21, a sociology student who said she supported Ennahda. “But for people who speak Arabic, that is not O.K.”

She made other fine distinctions as well, reflecting the complication of Tunisia’s dual identity, as perhaps the most Westernized state in the Arab world, that is now playing out in the election. Sure, Tunisian television often shows racy scenes from French films or of couples kissing in public that might not fit with traditional Islam, and no one seemed to care. “That is what happens in real life,” she explained. “But to personify God or the prophet, that is not O.K.”
686 2011-10-18 Mr. Daisey has been creating monologues on various subjects — “How Theater Failed America“ and “21 Dog Years” are among his best-known — for more than a decade. His methods are simple. Here he sits, behind a glass-topped table with just a few pages of notes and a glass of water before him, looking like a big boy who never lost all his baby fat. (Or maybe any of it.) His performance style mixes the quiet reflectiveness of Spalding Gray with more histrionic colorings.

In relating his giddy relationship with his Apple products, and impersonating fellow obsessives, Mr. Daisey transforms into a cackling mad scientist of creaky thrillers, and at his most fervid he recalls the jabbering, slightly unhinged aspect of the comic Lewis Black of “The Daily Show With Jon Stewart.” When it comes to discussing the sobering discoveries he made at Foxconn, which employs some 430,000 people in its compound in Shenzhen, Mr. Daisey speaks more gravely and with a charged intensity.

“The Agony and the Ecstasy of Steve Jobs,” which opened on Monday night at the Public Theater in a production directed by Mr. Daisey’s frequent collaborator (and wife) Jean-Michele Gregory, is pretty equally divided between the two heated emotional states of the title. Most of the ecstasy derives from Mr. Daisey’s misty-eyed recounting of his own highly charged relationship with Apple products, which dates back to an early model of an Apple computer that was given to the family by a wealthy uncle, and that was treated with such deference and awe that it was provided its own room.

For Mr. Daisey, as for many others, affection for Apple products evolved into reverence for Mr. Jobs, the Apple co-founder whose identification with the company and its products has been much remarked upon, and worried over, since his illness made news several years ago.

Mr. Daisey has been performing this show since July of last year, and while the death of Mr. Jobs lends the evening a certain eerie timeliness, it also means that many in the audience will be familiar with the life and career of Mr. Jobs from reading obituaries and tributes.

The hippie-meets-tech-geek ethos, the founding of and then ouster from Apple, the triumphant return and the revolutionary series of consumer products that followed: Mr. Daisey covers this material fluently and with amiable humor, mixing obvious hero worship with some pointed skepticism. (Mr. Jobs, he notes, was the kind of imperious guy who divided the world’s population into “geniuses and bozos.”)

But the show is most engrossing, and most disturbing, when Mr. Daisey delves into the grim realities of workers’ lives in Shenzhen, a city that he memorably describes as looking as if “ ‘Blade Runner’ threw up on itself.” Here is where the agony of the title enters the picture.

The Foxconn campus is tightly controlled, its entrance secured by gun-wielding guards. A series of suicides at the plant several years ago made international headlines. When Mr. Daisey’s attempts to visit through official channels were rebuffed, he simply rented a car and a driver and translator, and showed up at the gates to interview workers as they emerged from their shifts.

He had to wait quite a while. As he notes, while the official Chinese workday is 8 hours, the norm at Foxconn is more like 12 and even longer when the introduction of a product is at hand. One worker died after a 34-hour shift. Some of the workers he meets are as young as 13, and because of the repetitive nature of the labor, their hands often become deformed and useless within a decade, rendering them unemployable.

Mr. Daisey does not go all “j’accuse” on Mr. Jobs himself, but he does observe that Apple and other American corporations have been shamefully lax in taking responsibility for the treatment of workers at the overseas plants that manufacture their products. (He does not refer to an investigation Apple made into worker conditions at Foxconn this year.)

But of course the responsibility shouldn’t stop there. The conveniences and pleasures that all these gadgets have brought to our lives have been purchased at the cost of considerable human suffering, of which we remain willfully ignorant or simply choose to ignore.

Mr. Daisey pushes the notes of quiet outrage and guilt-mongering perhaps a little too hard in the show’s culminating moments, although he avoids full diatribe mode. But he doesn’t really need to bang the drum so hard; he has made his points clearly and powerfully already. Anyone who sees Mr. Daisey’s show — and anyone with a cellphone and a moral center should — will find it hard to forget the repercussions that our casual purchases can have in the lives of men and women (and children) half a world away.

Uncomfortable reflections along these lines have certainly been springing into my consciousness a lot since I saw it, like psychic pop-up ads that just won’t go away. I can’t seem to find a little box that says “Skip this thought.”

THE AGONY AND THE ECSTASY OF STEVE JOBS

Created and performed by Mike Daisey; directed by Jean-Michele Gregory; sets and lighting by Seth Reiser; production stage manager, Pamela Salling; acting general manager, Steven Showalter; associate artistic director, Mandy Hackett; associate producer, Maria Goyanes; director of production, Ruth E. Sternberg. Presented by the Public Theater, Oskar Eustis, artistic director; Joey Parnes, interim executive director. At the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village; (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. Through Nov. 13. Running time: 1 hour 50 minutes.
687 2011-10-18 On the night of the arrest, the government intercepted phone calls and text messages indicating that Officer Daragjati had fabricated facts in the police report, the complaint said. The next day, the government intercepted and recorded a call between Officer Daragjati and a female friend in which the officer said he had “fried another nigger,” according to a transcript of the call.

“What?” the woman said. Officer Daragjati used the same phrase and added, “No big deal.” The woman laughed.

Officer Daragjati, who has been on the police force for eight years, has been suspended for 30 days without pay. He was charged with a misdemeanor civil rights violation that carries a sentence of up to a year in prison and a fine of up to $100,000.

He was also charged with extortion and insurance fraud, which together carry a much longer maximum sentence: up to 20 years in prison and fines of up to $500,000.

The extortion charge stems from an episode in March. Prosecutors said Officer Daragjati, who operates a plowing business while off duty, lured a man, whom he suspected of having stolen his snowplow, to a parking lot on Staten Island, where a group of eight men pulled the man out of his car, punched him, threatened him with a gun and ordered him to return the plow or pay $5,000.

After Officer Daragjati learned that federal agents were investigating him for the beating, he was recorded saying, “If something happens, these guys are dead,” according to the complaint. It is not clear to whom the threat was directed.

Officer Daragjati was also charged with insurance fraud. Prosecutors said he directed one of his snowplow drivers to intentionally bash a truck Officer Daragjati owned and then tell the insurance company that an accident had caused the damage.

At the arraignment on Monday, Officer Daragjati’s lawyer, Michael Martinez, argued that his client should be released on bail. He called the alleged threat “loose talk” and “puffery.”

The prosecutor, Paul Tuchmann, said, “The defendant has shown through recordings that he is a blatant racist.”

Mr. Tuchmann said the death threat in particular showed that Officer Daragjati posed a danger to the public and should not be released on bail.

The federal magistrate judge, Joan M. Azrack, agreed with the prosecutor. “I rarely have evidence as strong as someone’s own words on what they will do,” she said.

Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said the department had initiated the investigation and thanked federal prosecutors for “bringing this case forward promptly and professionally.”
688 2011-10-18 The Arctic ice cap has been shrinking, opening up new shipping lanes. This has given access to oil and gas fields, as well as fishing in international waters that were not accessible before.
689 2011-10-18 Landowners have begun joining forces and challenging the company’s assumption that it can legally seize land.

“With so many unanswered questions about the safety of this project, perhaps it’s time for the U.S. to hit the brake pedal,” Mr. Thompson wrote in testimony for a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing in May. “And perhaps it’s time that our government starts placing the concerns of American citizens over and above those of a foreign corporation.”

Mr. Thompson said he intends to fight to keep the pipeline, 36 inches in diameter, off his land. Eminent domain laws generally allow for the confiscation of private property if taking it is judged to serve a larger public good. These kinds of laws differ slightly from state to state as do the processes by which pipelines are approved and licensed. As a result, there is both debate and confusion over whether TransCanada has the right to use the courts to demand easements from property owners in advance of final approval for the project.

A TransCanada spokesman, Shawn Howard, says the company does not have to wait for a license from the State Department to begin securing land. He said the company has tried to obtain voluntary agreements, but when that fails the company has the right to force lease agreements upon landowners in all six states the pipeline would pass through.  All of TransCanada’s permit applications, he said, have been made through its subsidiary in Omaha, Keystone Pipeline.

“We have been given the legal advice that we can do this in parallel to the process going on in Washington,” Mr. Howard said. “If we didn’t think we had the authority or ability to do this, we wouldn’t be doing it.”

A senior State Department official, who asked not to be identified because the permit process is continuing, said TransCanada had not sought federal approval to invoke eminent domain. He said the department had no authority on the issue and that it was up to state law and the courts to determine appropriate use of eminent domain laws.

Landowners and their lawyers are pushing local courts to do just that. While it is impossible to say how many cases are working their way through the legal system, in addition to the 56 Texas and South Dakota cases, TransCanada acknowledges it has sent “Dear Owner” letters to dozens of families in Nebraska.

Timothy Sandefur, a lawyer with the Pacific Legal Foundation, a nonprofit advocate for property rights issues, said that if the project is approved, the company will be on firmer ground. As unfair as the laws might seem, he said, the right of way of pipelines and railroads as public goods has been well established, regardless of whether they are foreign-owned. “Property owners almost never win these suits,” he said.

But lawyers for the landowners, particularly in Nebraska, Oklahoma and Texas, argue that TransCanada has not met the requirements to invoke eminent domain under those states’ laws. In South Dakota, however, a judge has already ruled that TransCanada could use eminent domain to secure land for a previous pipeline project.

David A. Domina, a Nebraska lawyer whose firm represents 45 landowners, said there was “no way” that TransCanada has eminent domain powers under Nebraska law, and that the company was “acting in bad faith.”

In East Texas, where residents are used to having cordial dealings with oil companies, landowners said they had never seen a company behave as aggressively as has TransCanada.

Norman Ladd, a lawyer in Tyler, Tex., whose firm represents more than a dozen landowners, said the company has low-balled on prices and threatened to use eminent domain “instead of coming down here and saying we can work with you.”

TransCanada has taken reticent landowners before special county boards in Texas, one of the first steps in that state’s condemnation process. The boards determine only how much landowners should be compensated, not whether eminent domain laws apply.

With drilling and pipeline building expected to expand into more shale fields and the news over the weekend that Kinder Morgan was buying the El Paso Corporation to expand its pipeline network, these types of land use challenges may well increase in coming years.

Supporters of Keystone XL argue it will help bolster domestic energy security and spur job growth. But many politicians, particularly in Nebraska, oppose much of the pipeline’s route because they say it poses a danger to the Ogallala Aquifer, which provides more than a quarter of the water for the country’s agricultural crops.

Environmental groups argue that extracting and burning the heavy crude drawn from Alberta’s oil sands will increase greenhouse gas emissions. They also warn that if there is a spill or a leak, it would cause severe environmental damage and be extremely hard to clean up.

In what has been interpreted as a virtual green light for the project, a State Department report in August concluded that the pipeline would have minimum environmental impact if operated under federal regulations.

Mr. Howard said the company has already secured legal agreements with 90 percent of the landowners it needs in Nebraska, and that he does not expect a few unhappy landowners to slow the process or force changes to the intended route. But TransCanada backed off and dropped its lawsuit against Sue Kelso’s family, when it was clear that the family was not going to acquiesce. Mr. Howard said the company decided it would be better to reroute the pipeline around the Kelso property for “various reasons” based on convenience.

An East Texas landowner, Eleanor Fairchild, said that a TransCanada representative arrived at her house a few days before her husband died of Alzheimer’s in 2009. At first, she considered the $42,000 offer — later raised by $18,000 — for a 50-foot easement on her 425 acres. But she said that the more she learned about the pipeline, the less she wanted it on her land.

“It was a hard decision whether I wanted to fight and spend all this money even though I could lose the thing,” Ms. Fairchild said in a weary drawl. “But somebody needs to fight them. I decided it would be me.”

TransCanada’s condemnation suit against her is pending.
690 2011-10-18 Mr. Walsh’s decision to repeatedly bang the drum of strict fiscal responsibility appears to reflect his belief that the Tea Party support that swept him into office by roughly 300 votes will keep him there despite his own financial problems. “What we need to do is elect fighters in every single level of government,” he said in his Capitol Hill office, where, with no apartment in Washington, he sleeps on an air mattress when Congress is in session. “When it comes to the issues that this Congress has been immersed in the past nine months, I have taken the leading role.”

But the history of unlikely wave candidates suggests that this theory could work against him. “When the wave is large enough in elections, weaker candidates can get elected,” said Nathan L. Gonzales, an editor at The Rothenberg Political Report, a nonpartisan political newsletter. “Part of the struggle for these freshmen is what lesson did they learn from their initial election. Do they think voters voted for them or against their opponent? They can struggle if they don’t understand the initial dynamics of their win.”

Of the 73 Republican freshmen who came into office in the Republican sweep of 1994 — the last one before 2010 — 12 were swept out in the next election, including Representative Jim Bunn of Oregon, who divorced his wife while in office and married his chief of staff, which did not help his re-election effort.

A wave put many unlikely Democrats into House seats in 2008, and a whopping 23 of them were voted out in 2010, including Representative Alan Grayson of Florida, Mr. Walsh’s corollary on the left chatterwise.

Mr. Walsh, a self-employed consultant whose income fluctuated in the years leading up to his election, shrugs off his financial history, calling it part of why voters related to him during last year’s campaign. “I talked openly about every aspect of my life,” he said. “The fact that I lost a home a few years ago, the fact that I struggled financially. I told people, ‘If you want a building full of millionaires who all have perfect credit scores, then Joe Walsh is not your guy.’ ”

Nor, he contends, do his financial troubles matter much to the job he was sent to do. “I didn’t go to Washington to manage anybody’s money,” he said. “What I want to do is limit what they take from you, so you can manage your money.”

But Mr. Walsh’s outspokenness — especially when he criticizes other Republicans — combined with his troubles — have annoyed House Republican leaders, who use “toxic” and other unflattering terms to refer to him, as they try to maintain Republican seats in hard-fought districts.

His most high-profile issue is the one he discusses least. His former wife, Laura Walsh, is seeking what she says is more than $100,000 in unpaid support for their three children as well as his half their medical expenses and extracurricular activities, according to court documents and her lawyer, Jack Coladarci.

Papers filed last December by Ms. Walsh’s legal team assert that Mr. Walsh paid only half of the $2,134 per month he owed her after their divorce in 2004 and only during 2005, 2006 and 2007. She says the congressman stopped paying entirely in March 2008.

“It is an issue I am going to fight quietly and legally and clear my name,” Mr. Walsh said in the interview.

In a court filing last week, Mr. Walsh’s lawyer called the lawsuit “a misguided attempt to exploit Joe’s new position” in Congress. The filing included photocopies of checks Mr. Walsh says prove he made the full payments until three years ago, when he claims Ms. Walsh agreed to stop child support after his income dipped. Both sides agree that since he took office in January, he has paid child support for his son Patrick, the only child who still qualifies. Both sides are due in court in November.

Then, there are Mr. Walsh’s political problems. Democrats in charge of the Illinois redistricting process have redrawn his district with boundaries overlapping that of Representative Randy Hultgren, a fellow Tea Party Republican. While the new map is being challenged in court, Mr. Walsh said that he was prepared to force Mr. Hultgren into a primary — and that he would be the clear favorite because Mr. Hultgren voted too often with party leaders.

“As a freshman you pick your poison,” Mr. Walsh said, “and maybe leadership is going to help him raise money or open some doors for him and in exchange for that he’s going to give them his vote.”

Mr. Hultgren, who has more than 15 years’ experience in state and local government, brushes off the accusations. “Using a leadership style that emulates Rod Blagojevich or Barack Obama, Joe likes to govern ineffectively though press releases, sound bites, political grandstanding, and name calling,” said his campaign spokesman, Andrew Flach. “He certainly does not lead by example.”

If the boundary challenge fails and the two freshmen lawmakers do face off, it will be in a district where much of the territory comes from Mr. Hultgren’s current district.

Mr. Walsh appeared to be a popular figure at a recent Tea Party convention in Schaumburg, part of his current district. When he stepped to the dais to deliver his luncheon address, the first thing he did was remove his suit jacket. “What’s unique with Joe Walsh is this,” he said, nearing the end of his speech. “You did nothing fancier, you did nothing more complicated, you did nothing more sophisticated than elect one of your own.”
691 2011-10-18 But the Occupy Wall Street movement and the spreading protests it has inspired — scores of people gathered at the Capitol on Saturday, and an occupation is planned in Albany beginning at noon Friday — have reinvigorated lawmakers, organized labor and community groups that advocate for the tax’s extension. The surcharge was a primary topic of conversation at a retreat hosted by the New York State Black, Puerto Rican, Hispanic and Asian Legislative Caucus on Friday; those lawmakers overwhelmingly agreed that they wanted to press further in favor of extending the measure.

And on Monday, various advocacy groups and labor unions, including New York State United Teachers and many of the state’s other largest unions, formed a coalition to start what they described as a “renewed” push for the surcharge’s extension. They are calling themselves 99 New York, a reference to Occupy Wall Street’s theme of representing 99 percent of Americans rather than the richest 1 percent.

“We have everybody joining together now to say, ‘Enough is enough,’ and we’re hoping our elected officials are going to start listening to us,” said Ron Deutsch, executive director of New Yorkers for Fiscal Fairness, a liberal advocacy organization.

Mr. Deutsch and others found evidence of public support for their position in a new poll released on Monday by Siena College, which found that 72 percent of registered voters supported increasing taxes on New Yorkers earning over $1 million per year. The poll, conducted from Oct. 10 to 12, has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points.

Asked about the poll, Mr. Cuomo invoked his father’s position on the death penalty and cited his refusal to budge despite overwhelming public pressure.

“Reporters would say, ‘Well, people want it,’ ” Mr. Cuomo said. “And the point was, you know, we don’t elect — you can’t just have as a governor a big poll-taking machine, right? And we take a poll, and whatever the poll says, that’s what we do.”

The Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, on Monday sent out a press release citing the Siena poll and affirming his commitment to advocating for the tax’s continuation.

The current surcharge applies to income over $200,000 for individuals and $300,000 for married couples; Mr. Silver is proposing to extend the surcharge only for income over $1 million. His office estimated that the surcharge, if extended for an extra year, would generate an additional $4 billion, including $2.8 billion in the next fiscal year.

The state is facing a projected $2.4 billion budget gap for that period. In light of that, Mr. Silver said Assembly Democrats would continue to press for the tax surcharge in the legislative session next year, even after it has expired.

Asked his posture looking toward next year’s budget in a telephone interview, Mr. Silver, citing his desire to improve education and health care, said, “I think the answer is, ‘Governor, we’re not making more cuts.’ ”

Mr. Silver added that “clearly there’s more attention” to the issue because of the Occupy Wall Street protests. Assemblyman Karim Camara, Democrat of Brooklyn and chairman of the legislative caucus for minorities, agreed.

“They’re forcing us to have a very necessary conversation,” Mr. Camara said, “and that’s the beauty of it.”
692 2011-10-18 Until now, the accounting oversight board, which was created by the Sarbanes-Oxley law in 2002 in the wake of failures at Enron and WorldCom, had never released such a report on a major firm.

In an interview, Joe Echevarria, the chief executive of Deloitte who took over this year, said the firm had addressed many of the issues raised. “In all of the areas that are mentioned, we have made significant investment. I have complete confidence in our professionals and the quality of our audits,” he said. But he added, “There were, and always will be, areas in which we can improve.”

Deloitte, however, is one of the Big Four firms that audit the vast majority of major companies in the United States.

The board also criticized Deloitte for the way it worked with foreign affiliates, who use the name Deloitte in other countries but are separate partnerships. It said American partners who chose to retain foreign affiliates to help on audits of multinational companies often had no way to assess whether that firm’s personnel were adequately familiar with American accounting and auditing rules.

Board officials have been increasingly critical recently of the failure of the major firms to improve. “Our inspectors have conducted annual inspections of the largest U.S. audit firms for eight years,” James R. Doty, the board’s chairman, said in a speech this month. “They have reviewed more than 2,800 engagements of such firms and discovered and analyzed hundreds of cases involving what they determined to be audit failures.” He said the firms had made efforts to improve, but that each year more failures were found.

“I am left,” he said, “with the inescapable question whether the root of the problem is auditor skepticism, coming to ground in the bedrock of independence. The loss of independence destroys skepticism.”

On Monday, the accounting oversight board issued a statement saying audits should protect investors.

“The board therefore takes very seriously the importance of firms making sufficient progress on quality control issues identified in an inspection report in the 12 months following the report,” the statement said.

The statement added that the board “devotes considerable time and resources to critically evaluating whether the firm did in fact make sufficient progress” in fixing the problems, and goes public only “when a firm has failed to do so.” Officials at the board declined to discuss the Deloitte report.

The 2008 report cited problems in 27 of the 61 Deloitte audits it reviewed, including three where the issuing company was forced to restate its financial statements. It did not name any of the clients.

In each of the cases where the accounting had to be changed, the board said Deloitte auditors had failed to consult with the firm’s top experts to determine appropriate accounting policies. It said there was “cause for concern” that the firm’s policies did not result in appropriate consultations.

In a 2008 reply to the board, also released Monday, the firm disputed many of the conclusions and said Deloitte partners’ “reasonable judgments should not be second-guessed.”

The report pointed to “a firm culture that allows, or tolerates, audit approaches that do not consistently emphasize the need for an appropriate level of critical analysis and collection of objective evidence, and that rely largely on management representations.”

The Deloitte response protested that “such a broad statement by the board mischaracterizes” Deloitte’s practices.

That response indicated that Deloitte believed there was nothing wrong with its quality control procedures. That the board decided to release the report is an indication that those procedures did not change enough to satisfy the board, at least within the following year.

Each year, the board inspects all major accounting firms, and it releases part of the report that deals with specific audit problems. But it keeps confidential the other part that covers the firm’s quality control problems, if there are any, and goes into greater detail on the audit problems found. That is the part of the 2008 report that was released Monday.

The most recent report on Deloitte, released in 2010, cited problems with 15 audits, including some where it said the audit firm had failed to do work needed to assess whether management assertions were correct. The quality control portion of that report was kept confidential.

In addition to conducting inspections, the board has the power to take disciplinary action against firms and individual partners, with penalties up to barring a person or firm from participating in future audits. But the Sarbanes-Oxley law requires that such enforcement proceedings be kept confidential until they are finally resolved, which can take years, so there is no way to know if the board has taken action against Deloitte or any of its partners.
693 2011-10-18 The subsidy swap is gaining momentum as lawmakers seek to influence the cuts in farm programs that are expected to be made by a special Congressional panel charged with slashing $1.2 trillion from future budgets.

On Monday, leaders of the House and Senate agriculture committees said they were preparing recommendations for $23 billion in unspecified cuts over 10 years, far less than some other proposals.

Lawmakers’ reluctance to simply eliminate a subsidy without adding another in its place demonstrates how difficult it is for Washington to trim the federal largess that flows to any powerful interest group. Indeed, the $5 billion program that lawmakers are willing to throw under the tractor, known as the direct payment program, was created in 1996 as a way to wean farmers off all such supports — and instead was made permanent a few years later.

The new subsidy is being championed by Senator , Democrat of , and Senator , Republican of .

Mr. Thune, a leading voice in favor of deficit reduction, received at least $80,000 in campaign contributions since 2007 from political action committees associated with commodity agriculture, according to data compiled by the nonpartisan Center for Responsive Politics, which tracks campaign spending. Mr. Brown has received $5,500 in PAC contributions from such groups in that period.

It is unclear how much support a new subsidy would garner, since many lawmakers view farm programs as a likely source of budget savings.

Critics say that farm subsidies today have little to do with helping struggling family farmers. Instead, they go predominantly to well-financed operations with large landholdings. All told, the subsidies amount to about $18 billion a year — about half of 1 percent of the .

An analysis of federal data by the Environmental Working Group, an advocacy group that tracks farm subsidies, showed that the top 10 percent of direct-payment recipients in 2010 received 59 percent of the money under the program. Those 88,000 people, including farmers, their spouses and absentee landowners, got an average of $29,598.

In lean times, such support might seem vital, but in recent years commodity farmers have done well.

The Agriculture Department forecasts that farm profits this year, measured on a cash basis, will total $115 billion, 24 percent higher than last year, thanks to soaring crop prices. Adjusted for inflation, profits are expected to be at their highest level since 1974.

The average income for farm households has been higher than general household incomes every year since 1996. The average household income was $87,780 for all farms in 2010, and $201,465 for families living on large farms.

“How do you justify this kind of money going to a sector of the economy that’s booming while other folks in the country are suffering?” Craig Cox, a senior vice president of the Environmental Working Group, said of the subsidies.

Lobbyists and farm-state lawmakers have long argued that farmers face risks, like bad weather, pests and volatile markets, that merit special treatment.

Direct payments have come under fire, however, because farmers get them whether markets are high or low. The new subsidy, called shallow-loss protection, would act as a free policy to cover commodity farmers against small drops in revenue.

Most commodity farmers already buy crop insurance to protect themselves against major losses caused by large drops in prices or damage to crops. Those policies typically guarantee 75 to 85 percent of a farmer’s revenue, with the federal government spending $6 billion a year to pay more than half the cost of farmers’ premiums.

The proposed new subsidy would add another layer of protection to guarantee 10 to 15 percent of a farmer’s revenue, paying out not only in years of heavy losses, but also when revenue dipped less severely.

The shallow-loss plan getting the most attention is in a bill introduced last month by Senators Brown and Thune that would simplify and expand an existing program.

Gary D. Schnitkey, a professor of farm management at the , said the Brown-Thune plan would help protect farmers during longer periods of depressed prices. Without such a program, he said, “we would see financial stress and we would see farmers go out of business.”

It is unclear how much the proposal would cost taxpayers. Dr. Schnitkey said the plan could pay farmers $40 billion over 10 years. That would be $20 billion less than the programs it replaced, including direct payments and some smaller subsidies.

But Dr. Smith, the State economist, said the cost could be much greater because the plan used recent high crop prices as its benchmark.

“If farm prices move back towards what are widely viewed as more normal levels than their current levels, farmers will be compensated for going back to business as usual,” he said.

In a statement Senator Thune said the proposal in the bill “corrects inefficiencies in several farm programs with a streamlined and cheaper approach.”

Representative Marlin A. Stutzman, an Republican, said that a shallow-loss plan would give farmers more flexibility in managing risk. “Farmers shouldn’t have to pay the brunt of the deficit problem,” he said.

Mr. Stutzman and Senator Richard Lugar, also an Indiana Republican, included the Brown-Thune plan in matching farm bills they introduced this month.

Congress is due to write a new five-year next year, but some lawmakers want to use the deficit-cutting process to revamp farm spending. has proposed cutting $33 billion from farm programs over 10 years, including ending direct payments without adding a shallow-loss program. Mr. Stutzman’s bill would slice $40 billion, with more than half coming from programs like food stamps and soil and water conservation.
694 2011-10-18 Frank and Jamie McCourt said Monday that they had settled their divorce case, resolving one major cloud hovering over the Dodgers, the team they jointly owned.

As part of the deal, Jamie would receive about $130 million from Frank and, in return, give up her interest in the team. But she also reversed her position and now supports a plan by the Dodgers to auction their media rights to raise cash for the club.

The sale of the team’s media rights has been at the center of a struggle between the McCourts and Major League Baseball. Frank McCourt has tried to raise hundreds of millions of dollars by selling the rights.

The league has opposed his plan for various reasons, including the possibility he might use some of the proceeds to settle his divorce case.

After M.L.B. in late June rejected a proposed 17-year extension of the team’s television deal with Fox, Frank McCourt pushed the team into bankruptcy. M.L.B. has since asked a bankruptcy court judge to authorize the sale of the team, despite McCourt’s objections.

It is unclear where Frank McCourt will get the money to pay Jamie.

LESTER CALLS DRINKING WRONG Boston Red Sox starter Jon Lester told The Boston Globe in an article Monday that he drank beer during games, but that the behavior had nothing to do with the team’s collapse over the final month of the season, when the Red Sox went 7-20.
695 2011-10-18 The University of Missouri is heading down a path to join the Southeastern Conference, said a university official with direct knowledge of the situation.

The person said that Missouri’s decision to apply for membership to the SEC was “inevitable and imminent,” although a specific timeframe has yet to be set. Missouri’s Board of Curators will meet on Thursday and Friday at the University of Missouri-Kansas City, where the process of withdrawing from the Big 12 and applying to the SEC is expected to begin. Expansion is not listed on the agenda, but there is a private session scheduled Thursday afternoon and Friday morning.

After it applies, the person said that Missouri expected “no problems” with gathering enough votes among SEC presidents for it to become a member.

Although the interim Big 12 commissioner, Chuck Neinas, said last week that he expected Missouri to play in the Big 12 still in 2012, it was possible that it could start play in the SEC as early as next year. Missouri would become the SEC’s 14th member; the league added Texas A&M in September. The SEC would prefer 14 members, as scheduling is a much simpler process with two seven-team divisions.

It is expected that the SEC presidents will tie the same caveat about legal entanglements to Missouri’s application that they did to Texas A&M’s. The SEC has made it clear that it wants no part of any legal problems, which held up Texas A&M’s admission for more than a month.
696 2011-10-18 Among the various motivations behind the festival SONiC: Sounds of a New Century, a nine-evening series of new-music concerts running throughout the city, one standout is the claim that all the included works are from composers 40 or younger. Eighth Blackbird, a polished, personable, routinely dazzling sextet, has never bound its repertory so rigidly; included in its swelling canon are staples by Schoenberg and Boulez.

Still, the ensemble, which played on Saturday evening in Columbia University’s Miller Theater in the festival’s second event, has never lacked for fresh pieces by emerging artists. What ambitious and skillful young composer wouldn’t jump at the chance to write for a group whose professionalism and proficiency are amplified by that indefinable X factor, charisma?

Personal chemistry and total commitment are critical to that quality, which made this concert even more important for longtime Eighth Blackbird followers. This was the group’s first New York appearance since taking on the violinist and violist Yvonne Lam, who replaced Matthew Albert, a founding member, in May.

Formerly the assistant concertmaster of the Washington National Opera Orchestra, Ms. Lam is having no trouble adapting to the kinetic Eighth Blackbird style, to judge from her three appearances during this concert. In Fabian Svensson’s “Two Sides,” the opening work, she colluded with the flutist Timothy Munro and the percussionist Matthew Duvall, wafting flighty motifs eagerly rebutted by a grumbling trio of Lisa Kaplan on piano, Nicholas Photinos on cello and Michael J. Maccaferri on bass clarinet.

Though not written for Eighth Blackbird, Mr. Svensson’s piece played to the sextet’s penchant for works involving extramusical theatrics and light choreography, a taste even more evident in Amy Beth Kirsten’s “Pirouette on a Moon Sliver,” for solo flute. Part of a planned series meant to evoke commedia dell’arte characters, Ms. Kirsten’s piece drew from Mr. Munro a bravura show of hissing, gibbering, urgent recitation and lines sung at high and low extremes.

After Mr. Duvall’s gentle account of Caleb Burhans’s bucolic “Lullaby for Madeline,” Dan Visconti’s “Fractured Jams” elicited mimetic whimsy from Ms. Kaplan, Ms. Lam, Mr. Maccaferri and Mr. Photinos. Four brief movements fitfully evoked amateurish garage rock, a tipsy jug band, gritty feedback and dusty, crackly nostalgia.

Mayke Nas’s “DiGiT #2,” ostensibly for piano four-hands, engaged Ms. Kaplan and Mr. Duvall in stagey forearm crashes and playground clapping games. “Crashing Through Fences,” by Timothy Andres, punctuated a duet for Mr. Munro’s piccolo and Mr. Duvall’s glockenspiel with startling bass-drum stomps.
697 2011-10-18 If all goes as planned, he will be the first captured Israeli soldier to be returned home alive in 26 years.

In Israel, there were elaborate preparations for his return, a calibrated mix of relieved celebration and acknowledgment — both of the pain and death that the released Palestinians caused many families and of the risk that their release may pose.

Several petitions to block or alter the exchange were rejected by Israel’s high court on Monday. The scene at the courtroom was emotionally charged, with some families who lost members in terrorist attacks assailing the Shalit family and the government.

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu sent letters to the bereaved families saying he understood their heartache.

“I know that the price is very heavy for you,” he wrote in the letters. “I understand the difficulty to countenance that the evil people who perpetrated the appalling crimes against your loved ones will not pay the full price that they deserve. During these moments I hope that you will find solace that I and the entire nation of Israel embrace you and share your pain.”

Plans call for the Palestinian prisoners to board buses to start their journeys to freedom once Sergeant Shalit is known to have crossed from Gaza into Egyptian Sinai. He is to be taken to Israel, checked preliminarily for physical and mental health, given a new uniform to wear, then taken to an air base to see his family and meet Mr. Netanyahu, Defense Minister Ehud Barak and the military chief of staff, Lt. Gen. Benny Gantz.

After a more extensive medical examination and some time with the officials and his family, Sergeant Shalit and his family are to be transported by helicopter to their home in northern Israel. Reporters and onlookers will be barred from his neighborhood to give the family a measure of privacy. Chiefs of major Israeli news organizations vowed to respect the restrictions.

In Gaza, after a ceremony at Rafah, Hamas planned a huge welcoming rally in the center of Gaza City. The Hamas prime minister, Ismail Haniya, and one of the returning prisoners, Yehya Sinwar, a co-founder of an early security wing of Hamas, are scheduled to speak.

With a hammer in his hand, Hussein al-Rifi, 20, paused on Monday while hanging flags to say that he was happy to help with the preparations, “to show the people that Hamas still exists in Gaza and to make the happiness of the prisoners complete.”

As he spoke, a bulldozer was smoothing the sandy ridges that run on each side of the highway to beautify the route. Later, five numbered buses arrived at the barred crossing gates at Rafah, ready to pick up the released prisoners; they were followed by a busload of Hamas police officers to form an honor guard.

In the West Bank, President Mahmoud Abbas was to greet the prisoners to be released there at a ceremony in Ramallah. Though the exchange was negotiated by his rivals in Hamas, Mr. Abbas was expected to try to make it as much of a nonpartisan Palestinian achievement as possible.

Atallah Abu al-Sebah, Hamas’s minister of prisoners’ affairs, said the prisoners released in Gaza would first be greeted inside the Rafah crossing by 200 officials and up to four members of each prisoner’s family. There would be a “short official reception,” including the Palestinian national anthem.

Mr. Sebah said that any prisoners who needed accommodation, including those who did not have families in the strip, would be put up in hotels for one month, irrespective of whether they were associated with Hamas, Fatah or other factions. They would then be moved to apartments being prepared for them around Gaza.

“We call upon our Palestinian people to put our brothers from the West Bank in their hearts and eyes, regardless of their affiliation,” he said. “It is enough that they belong to Palestine.”
698 2011-10-18 In recent weeks, various reports in The New York Post and elsewhere claimed that Mr. Wolff was about to be fired after clashing with Mr. Finkelstein over the direction of Adweek. Mr. Wolff had irreverently batted away those rumors and even printed a small item in last week’s issue, in a section called “Up/Down,” that read, “Michael Wolff defies media rumors and still edits Adweek.” (That earned him an “Up.”)

His departure from Adweek was, however, not reported in this week’s issue, which came out on Monday. Rather, it was covered in the article on adweek.com, which was followed by an article, billed as “A Letter to Adweek’s Readers,” about Mr. Cooper’s plans.

Mr. Cooper and Mr. Finkelstein “are not going to do interviews,” a spokeswoman for Prometheus Global Media, Lisa Dallos, wrote in an e-mail, because they preferred to let the letter and article “do the talking.”

Some speculation about Mr. Wolff’s departure, particularly those in The Post, was related to his aggressive coverage in Adweek, and his interviews elsewhere, about the phone-hacking scandal that has engulfed the News Corporation and its owner, Rupert Murdoch. Mr. Wolff wrote a biography of Mr. Murdoch, who also owns The Post.

“Michael created some interesting content at Adweek, and I loved his coverage of Rupert Murdoch,” said Joe Mandese, editor in chief at MediaPost, which publishes online and print media and marketing trade publications. “But I could read that in New York or Vanity Fair.”

Mr. Mandese questioned how successful trade publications “that want to cover the media business for consumers” could be when there were “plenty of consumer publications that cover the media business.”

And the idea that altering the Adweek editorial formula would help bring in “upscale advertising” from marketers of products like automobiles and liquor has so far not panned out, Mr. Mandese said.

As the speculation about his departure intensified, Mr. Wolff portrayed the situation as a dispute between his vision for Adweek and how Mr. Finkelstein saw the magazine. Mr. Wolff spoke approvingly of having a publication with a broader mandate to cover the media business, a departure from the niche approach of covering the ins and outs of the advertising business that Madison Avenue had come to expect.

At an event on Oct. 6, during Advertising Week 2011 in New York, Mr. Wolff, in reply to a question about what was happening at Adweek, said, “There is a discussion going on in my company over what this magazine should be.”

One side, he said, “wants a magazine that tells a smaller story, the traditional ad trade magazine story, who’s winning what accounts.”

“I would not want to tell” that story, he added, but rather supported “another side which wants another story,” about the “incredible transformation” of the advertising, marketing and media businesses.

For that story, Mr. Wolff said, “I think I’m a pretty good choice.”

Also that week, Mr. Finkelstein had provided a mild statement of support for Mr. Wolff: “Michael’s name is still on the masthead. He is not being fired.”

The article on adweek.com included a statement from Mr. Wolff that began: “I’ve had a fantastic time at Adweek. It’s been my privilege to be part of the brilliant transformation of the magazine and site.” It continued in that gushy, un-Wolff-like vein for three more sentences.

It is unclear whether Mr. Wolff’s departure means Adweek will refocus its coverage and return to its roots, resuming its decades-long, head-to-head battle with the trade publication Advertising Age. The letter to readers from Mr. Cooper praised the revamping and declared, “The new Adweek is out of the gate and running.”

The letter also stated that “flexibility, partnership and speedy execution will win the day and be the hallmarks of the new Adweek.”

Abbey Klaassen, editor of Advertising Age, part of Crain Communications, declined to comment on the Adweek announcement, which received no coverage on Monday on the Advertising Age Web site, adage.com.

There has been other uncertainty at the top of Adweek’s parent company, which also publishes The Hollywood Reporter and Billboard.

The role of Richard D. Beckman, chief executive of Prometheus, was diminished in July when he gave up his sole responsibility for the company’s day-to-day operations to Mr. Finkelstein and took a post in brand development. Mr. Beckman had brought Mr. Wolff to Adweek and Prometheus Global Media.
699 2011-10-18 BEIJING — A Tibetan nun killed herself Monday by setting herself on fire in a Tibetan town in western China while calling for religious freedom and the return of the Dalai Lama, the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader, according to a statement by an advocacy group based in London.

The nun, Tenzin Wangmo, 20, was the ninth Tibetan to commit self-immolation since March, the fifth of those to die, and the first Tibetan woman to kill herself in this way, said the group, Free Tibet. The self-immolations have all taken place in restive Tibetan areas of Sichuan Province. All the previous acts involved monks or former monks; the most recent one took place on Saturday, when a 19-year-old former monk from Kirti Monastery set himself on fire but lived.

Kirti is in the town of Aba, known as Ngaba in Tibetan, and is the focal point of a long-running repression by Chinese security forces. Kirti was involved in the widespread Tibetan uprising of 2008, and security around the monastery has tightened considerably since then. Seven of the eight monks who committed self-immolation this year came from Kirti.

Tenzin’s nunnery, called Dechen Chokorling, was just three kilometers outside Aba and near Kirti. Tenzin set herself on fire outside the nunnery around 1 p.m. on Monday, said the report by Free Tibet, which advocates for Tibetan independence and has functioned as an outlet for people inside the Tibetan areas to report news.

“The acts of self-immolation are not taking place in isolation, protests have been reported in the surrounding region and calls for wider protests are growing,” said Stephanie Brigden, director of Free Tibet.

The group also reported that two Tibetans were shot and wounded by security forces during a protest on Sunday outside a police station in the town of Kege, known in Tibetan as Khekor. The town is located in the prefecture of Ganzi, or Kandze in Tibetan. A 29-year-old monk in Ganzi killed himself in August by setting himself on fire.
700 2011-10-18 WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court agreed on Monday to hear a pair of cases on whether corporations and political groups may be sued in American courts for complicity in human rights abuses abroad.

The Supreme Court has offered only limited and tentative guidance on the general question of what sorts of human rights lawsuits may be brought in federal courts in the United States. The lower courts in both cases drew a clean line, saying that only individuals and not artificial entities like corporations are subject to being sued.

One of the cases was brought by 12 Nigerians, who said that oil companies affiliated with Royal Dutch Shell had aided and abetted the Nigerian government in torture and executions in the Ogoni region of the country in the early 1990s. The plaintiffs sued under the Alien Tort Statute, a 1789 law that allows federal district courts to hear “any civil action by an alien for a tort only, committed in violation of the law of nations or a treaty of the United States.”

The meaning of that language is not obvious, and the law itself was largely ignored until the 1980s, when federal courts started to apply it in international human rights cases. A 2004 Supreme Court decision, Sosa v. Álvarez-Machain, left the door open to some claims under the law, as long as they involved violations of international norms with “definite content and acceptance among civilized nations.”

A footnote in that decision instructed lower courts to consider a related question, too: “whether international law extends the scope of liability for a violation of a given norm to the perpetrator being sued, if the defendant is a private actor such as a corporation or individual.”
701 2011-10-18 AMMAN, Jordan — King Abdullah II of Jordan, under growing pressure to accelerate political reform and genuine anticorruption measures, fired his government on Monday, just eight months after doing so for similar reasons in the early days of the Arab Spring.

In a statement announcing the change, King Abdullah said, “We have accepted the resignation of Prime Minister Marouf al-Bakhit, taking into consideration the views of the various sectors of society as well as a letter we have received from the parliamentary majority.”

Mr. Bakhit was seen by many as dragging his feet on political changes. His government also angered Jordanians with a new law that made it a crime, punishable by a steep fine, to falsely accuse someone of corruption. The law is seen as an infringement on the news media and free speech.

Also of concern are episodes of lawlessness, especially by groups thought to be working with the government, who have attacked opposition gatherings. The most recent example was on Saturday when an anticorruption conference, attended by opposition figures and members of four prominent tribes, was disrupted by attackers firing guns and throwing stones.

The headline in the independent newspaper Al-Arab al-Youm on Sunday was “Security Tensions Are Cast Upon the Kingdom.”

The new prime minister is Awn Khasawneh, 61, who has been a judge at the International Court of Justice in The Hague since 2000. He is also a former chief of the royal court and was a legal adviser to Jordan when it negotiated its peace treaty with Israel in 1994.
702 2011-10-18 Three of the cases were announced as they were completed by the special investigator, Richard J. Condon, including one that led to the ouster of Ruth Ralston, an assistant principal at the High School for Contemporary Arts in the Bronx, who investigators found had erased hundreds of student answers on the June 2008 algebra Regents exam. Documents related to the other cases were provided to under the Freedom of Information Law. Of the 23 educators named in the investigations, about a third have resigned or have been fired, sometimes after an administrative hearing that is required for those with tenure.

Jooyeon Kim, a third-grade teacher at the well-known Children’s Zone/Promise Academy I, for example, was dismissed in 2009 due to two words: “Alligator Park.”

Ms. Kim’s students had been asked to correct the punctuation in a paragraph on the state’s English test in January 2009 that included this sentence: “We saw alligators at an alligator park.” City testing officials noticed that each of her 22 students had made an identical change: first capitalizing both the A and the P in “Alligator Park” (incorrect), then erasing it.

They began an investigation, and Ms. Kim, who could not be reached for comment for this article, ultimately acknowledged that she had warned the children, “You’re on the last question, be careful,” saying it was “tricky.” Eight of the children confirmed her account, though investigators did not find evidence that she had actually given them the answer.

Teachers at Promise Academy, run by the billionaire investor Stanley Druckenmiller and , are not unionized, so it was easier to fire Ms. Kim than it would have been at a traditional school. “Although we had no hard evidence,” explained Marty Lipp, a spokesman, “the soft evidence led us to make a decision to let her go, because we can’t and won’t tolerate cheating on the tests.”

By contrast, only one of eight educators who investigators said had participated in a “herculean and dishonest” effort at the High School for Youth and Community Development in Brooklyn to give students answers before the 2005 biology Regents exam was fired. The others received reprimands.

“Students were not merely permitted but were openly encouraged to cheat,” investigators wrote of the case, in which students were given answer keys to copy instead of completing required lab experiments in the days and hours before the exam. Several teachers said the principal, Marie Prendergast, had known about the copying, but investigators found conclusive evidence only that she had failed to properly supervise her staff. She received a counseling memo.

“It’s something my staff did,” Ms. Prendergast said in an interview. “I have a different organization, that was an unfortunate incident, but that is not my school now.”

She added, “Why are you going to crucify me for something that I was called green and stupid for, but I was exonerated?”

Another case led to the of a gym teacher at A. Philip Randolph High School in , who was also a track coach, mentoring generations of students who included two Olympic runners. To help one of her athletes graduate in 2007, investigators found that the teacher, Phyllis Anderson, devised a scheme to substitute a failing essay in the student’s global history Regents exam.

The girl, who had written an off-topic essay that had earned her a zero, was told to write another one at home, according to the case file. She met a teacher from another school on a Bronx street corner, who passed her the new essay in an envelope. A custodian, investigators said, later slipped it into the test.

Ms. Anderson, who now coaches at a private school, said she “was falsely accused of something I could not have done,” adding: “I’m a physical educator. I don’t have access to exams.” Still, she agreed to retire — and to drop a discrimination suit she had filed against the city and her principal — so that the administrative hearing would be dismissed. The other people involved were briefly suspended or reprimanded.

In a separate case, Robert Sambone, a teacher and coach, and James Chiarchiaro, an academic coach paid by the National Football Foundation, wanted to help three volleyball players graduate from South Shore High School in the Canarsie neighborhood of Brooklyn.

The men secretly filled out bubble sheets for the January 2007 biology Regents, according to investigators, answering 24 of the 30 questions correctly. As the girls took the exams, the men passed them the answer sheets, either tucked into a newspaper or, in Mr. Chiarchiaro’s case, with a hug in a hallway caught on video, investigators said.

Mr. Sambone was terminated after an administrative hearing. He declined to comment. Mr. Chiarchiaro, who also lost his job, did not return several phone calls and e-mails.

Some cases seemed more like sloppiness than cheating. Kourtney Boyd, for example, failed to record properly 2005 English Regents exam scores of numerous students when she was an assistant principal at Cobble Hill High School; she received a letter of reprimand, and is now principal of a Brooklyn middle school.

And in 2009, Kalliopi Hatzivasilis, an assistant principal at the High School of International Business and Finance in Upper Manhattan, acknowledged to investigators that she had changed class grades for 10 to 15 students from failing to passing after they passed their Regents exams, saying she had misunderstood the city’s grading policy. “I was just lazy,” she told investigators, when asked why she did not correct the error after becoming aware of it.

Ms. Hatzivasilis, who was demoted and now teaches at the High School for Global Citizenship in Brooklyn, declined to comment.

Fatai Okunola, a teacher at Middle School 219 in the Bronx, received a 90-day suspension without pay after investigators said he had written answers on the back of paper rulers for the eighth-grade math exam, and left the classroom while proctoring a test; answers were found on paper on the floor. During his administrative hearing, many of the charges were dismissed.

“I denied everything because I didn’t do any of those things,” he said. “I didn’t have money to hire an outside lawyer to fight, so I just leave everything to God.”

Two other cases resulting in fines or reprimands involved a teacher who used his early access to the state exam to tutor a student on , and a paraprofessional in who exchanged an e-mail address — and a regular classroom science test — with a student. But in an illustration of the difficulty of proving cheating, investigators confirmed tampering on the 2009 geometry Regents at the Academy for Action in Manhattan, but could not determine who had been involved.

Mr. Condon, the special commissioner of investigation, generally leaves the question of punishment to the Education Department. But in six cases his office unequivocally recommended termination: Rachel Henderson, the principal of P.S. 811, a special education school in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, whom investigators found had directed members of her staff to fabricate student portfolios; her assistant principal, Rosa Lien; Ms. Anderson, the track coach at A. Philip Randolph; the coaches who helped the Brooklyn volleyball players; and Ms. Ralston. All either resigned, retired or were fired.

Ernest Logan, president of the city’s Council of Supervisors and Administrators, said he believed that the process was working.

“What I’m starting to hear more and more is that we are looking to see if New York City is not on top of this,” he said, “and I’m telling you, I think that we are probably better at it than anywhere in the country.”
703 2011-10-18 The false-positive rate — when the test incorrectly said that a baby would have Down syndrome — was 0.2 percent.

“It’s better than anything by far that we’ve ever seen in testing for Down syndrome noninvasively,” said Jacob A. Canick, a professor of pathology at Brown University and the senior author of the study.

The test can be used as early as 10 weeks into a pregnancy, though half of the samples tested in the study were from the second trimester, meaning 15 weeks or more.

Another company, Verinata Health, has said it would introduce a similar test in early 2012. Gene Security Network hopes to have a test ready later in 2012.

Sequenom’s test, called MaterniT21, would be ordered by doctors, not directly by consumers. All samples will be sent to Sequenom’s laboratory for analysis. The test is expected to cost about $1,900, about as much as amniocentesis.

The company said that privately insured women would have to pay $235 out of pocket, with the company assuming the risk of getting insurers to pay the rest. It is not clear how willing insurers will be to cover this test.

Sequenom’s test has not been approved by the Food and Drug Administration. The agency has typically not regulated tests that are offered by a single laboratory, although it has said it might start doing so. In New York, the test will not be available immediately because the state has its own approval process.

Similar techniques are already being used to determine the gender of the fetus and paternity. Some people worry that use of such tests early will lead to more abortion of fetuses with minor abnormalities, the wrong sex or an undesired father.

“The number of American women who will have to grapple with this information prenatally will substantially increase,” said Dr. Brian G. Skotko of the Down syndrome program at Children’s Hospital Boston. His sister has Down syndrome, he said, and he pointed out that these tests could encourage more people to end their pregnancies, causing a decline in the numbers of people with the condition and leading to diminished support for them.

Down syndrome is marked by mild to moderate mental retardation, unusual facial characteristics and various health problems. Most cases occur because a person has three copies of chromosome 21 instead of the usual two.

Many pregnant women undergo preliminary screening using either ultrasound or tests for proteins in the mother’s blood, or both. Those deemed at high risk from that screening or because of their age are then offered an invasive test, in which fetal cells are extracted from the womb.

The existing screening tests have a false positive rate as high as 5 percent. The result is that the vast majority of women who undergo an invasive test have a normal baby.

Sequenom said the test was meant for the 750,000 women a year in the United States who are deemed to be at high risk after initial screening. Women who test negative on the new test may feel comfortable skipping the invasive procedure, researchers said.

However, women who test positive would still be advised to undergo the more definitive invasive tests before terminating a pregnancy. “We don’t feel it’s appropriate to act or make decisions” based solely on the Sequenom test, Dr. Canick said.

Sequenom executives also said they hoped the test would be used by women who choose not to undergo invasive tests because of the risk of miscarriage.

The test has some shortcomings. At least for now, it does not detect other chromosomal abnormalities, including some rare forms of Down syndrome not caused by the triple chromosome.

Down syndrome “only represents 50 percent of all the chromosomal abnormalities that you would identify through amniocentesis or C.V.S.,” said Peter Benn, professor of genetics and developmental biology at the University of Connecticut.

Another drawback, Dr. Benn said, would be the estimated wait for test results that could take up to two weeks, delaying amniocentesis and leaving less time to terminate a pregnancy.

Sequenom could also face heightened skepticism because of its past problems. The company was preparing to introduce another prenatal Down syndrome test in 2009 when it abruptly announced that the data it had promoted to investors could no longer be trusted.

It turned out that a top research official had known which samples were positive and negative and had told subordinates to adjust the parameters of the test to improve its accuracy.

Five executives, including the chief executive and the research official, were fired. The research official, Elizabeth A. Dragon, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit securities fraud. (She died this February, before sentencing.)

Sequenom’s stock, which had been over $25 early in 2009, collapsed after the scandal. On Monday it rose 24 cents to close at $5.56.

With a new testing technique and new management, Sequenom is trying to establish credibility by having the results of its study published Monday in the medical journal. The company paid for the study and some authors of the paper are employees. Dr. Canick and the other lead investigator were paid consultants to Sequenom, but ended those relationships when the study started.

The study used blood samples from pregnant women who were about to undergo an invasive test.

The Sequenom test correctly identified 209 of the 212 Down syndrome samples, a rate of 98.6 percent. It incorrectly characterized three of 1,471 negative samples as showing Down syndrome. The test could not determine any answer for 13 pregnancies, or about 0.8 percent of cases.

The test counts small fragments of DNA in the mother’s blood. While most of this DNA is from the mother, some is from the fetus. Sequenom uses high-speed gene sequencers to determine the sequence of millions of the fragments. Using knowledge of the human genome, it determines which chromosome each fragment comes from. If the fetus has three copies of chromosome 21, there will be more than the expected number of fragments coming from chromosome 21.

One of the first papers on this approach was published in 2008 by Stephen Quake, a professor of bioengineering and applied physics at Stanford. Verinata has the rights to his discoveries, setting up a potential patent battle with Sequenom.

Professor Quake said that by increasing the number of fragments counted, it would be possible to prenatally diagnose abnormalities that do not involve entire extra chromosomes, even single mutations that cause diseases like cystic fibrosis.

Gene Security Network and another company, Tandem Diagnostics, are developing tests using somewhat different genetic analysis techniques. Other researchers are trying to use intact fetal cells, as opposed to DNA fragments. But such cells are extremely rare in the mother’s blood.
704 2011-10-18 People with Barrett's esophagus, a complication of acid reflux disease, have a higher risk of developing esophageal cancer. But the risk is far smaller than believed, a study published in The New England Journal of Medicine has found.     Research...
705 2011-10-18 This summer, Lloyd Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, flew to Chicago to personally pitch his firm to underwrite what was supposed to be the hottest initial public offering of the year: Groupon, the fledgling online coupon company th...
706 2011-10-18 6:43 p.m. | Updated      One of the biggest deals of the year has one of the biggest loans....
707 2011-10-19 To attract American investors, the Man Group is expanding its product lineup, bolstering its local sales force and striking distribution deals with firms like Morgan Stanley....
708 2011-10-19 To attract American investors, the Man Group is expanding its product lineup, building up its local sales force and striking distribution deals with firms like Morgan Stanley....
709 2011-10-19 The Belle of Amherst loved to bake....
710 2011-10-19 The Belle of Amherst loved to bake....
711 2011-10-19 At a news conference, State Senator Eric Adams said that he and other city leaders had asked Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. to investigate the police three months ago, and hadn't heard back....
712 2011-10-19 At a news conference, State Senator Eric Adams said that he and other city leaders had asked Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. to investigate the police three months ago, and hadn't heard back....
713 2011-10-19 Despite moves in Congress to change Chapter 11 venue rules, the Delaware court ignored any political pressure to name a trustee in the Solyndra bankruptcy....
714 2011-10-19 Despite moves in Congress to change Chapter 11 venue rules, the Delaware court ignored any political pressure to name a trustee in the Solyndra bankruptcy....
715 2011-10-19 Cuckoo Chaos and Gauntlet Hair exceeded this critic’s first-night expectations at the CMJ Music Marathon....
716 2011-10-19 Cuckoo Chaos and Gauntlet Hair exceed a critic's first-night expectations at the CMJ Music Marathon....
717 2011-10-19 The Andy Warhol Foundation plans to announce on Wednesday afternoon that it will dissolve its authentication board early next year....
718 2011-10-19 The Andy Warhol Foundation plans to announce on Wednesday afternoon that it will dissolve its authentication board early next year....
719 2011-10-19 Apple stores worldwide  closed on Wednesday so employees could watch a company memorial to Steve Jobs....
720 2011-10-19 Apple stores worldwide closed on Wednesday so employees could watch a company memorial to Steve Jobs....
721 2011-10-19 The owner of an exotic pet farm from which the animals escaped is found dead....
722 2011-10-19 The owner of an exotic pet farm from which the animals escaped is found dead....
723 2011-10-19 A big rush to buy computer servers means there may not be time for a new model of server, using non-Intel chips, to reach broad acceptance....
724 2011-10-19 A big rush to buy computer servers means there may not be time for a new model of server, using non-Intel chips, to reach broad acceptance....
725 2011-10-19 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
726 2011-10-19 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
727 2011-10-19 On Oct. 19, 1987, a day that became known as "Black Monday," the stock market crashed as the Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged 508 points, or 22.6 percent in value, its largest single-day percentage drop....
728 2011-10-19 On Oct. 19, 1987, a day that became known as "Black Monday," the stock market crashed as the Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged 508 points, or 22.6 percent in value, its largest single-day percentage drop....
729 2011-10-19 Several wild animals were still on the loose in an Ohio town on Wednesday after their owner had set them free and then killed himself, local authorities said....
730 2011-10-19 Several wild animals were still on the loose in an Ohio town on Wednesday after their owner had set them free and then killed himself, local authorities said....
731 2011-10-19 Johnson & Johnson’s third-quarter profit fell 6 percent as continuing product recall costs, rising generic competition and costs tied to an acquisition more than offset higher foreign sales.

The health care giant’s revenue in the United States dropped 4 percent because of competition from generic versions of antibiotic Levaquin and several other prescription drugs. In addition, a two-year string of product recalls have hammered its over-the-counter drug business. Marketing costs have also risen because of two new products: Incivo, a hepatitis C drug the company sells in Europe; and Zytiga, a pill for treating advanced prostate cancer after chemotherapy.

Sales in the United States also were hurt by a severe shortage of its chemotherapy drug Doxil caused by manufacturing problems. Doxil is one of hundreds of drugs, mainly used in hospitals, in such short supply that Congress is investigating.

Johnson & Johnson said Tuesday that net income was $3.2 billion, or $1.15 a share, which was down from $3.42 billion, or $1.23 a share, a year earlier.

Excluding a charge of 9 cents a share for its planned acquisition of Synthes, earnings would have been $3.4 billion, or $1.24 a share. Revenue was $16 billion, up about 7 percent from a year ago, because of a 16.4 percent jump in foreign sales, but half of that came from favorable currency exchange rates.

The company beat analyst expectations on earnings per share by 3 cents and met estimates of $16.02 billion on revenue. Analyst estimates generally exclude one-time items.

The company, based in New Brunswick, N.J., raised the low end of its 2011 profit forecast, to $4.95 to $5 a share, from its earlier forecast of $4.90 to $5 a share. It forecast revenue of $63.5 billion. That’s still below the $63.75 billion posted in 2008, before generic competition and product recalls started taking a toll.
732 2011-10-19 Investment banks typically dwarf life insurance companies. Banks and savings institutions, for example, held 33.4 percent of the $2.4 trillion of total outstanding commercial real estate debt as of the second quarter, compared with the 12.8 percent held by life insurance companies, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association. But while the total amount of commercial mortgages increased 0.1 percent in the second quarter over the previous quarter, the amount held by life insurers increased 1.5 percent.

“Now is a good time to be a first-mortgage lender,” said Robert R. Merck, a senior managing director and the head of real estate investments for Metropolitan Life.

MetLife originated $8 billion in real estate loans last year and has already lent that amount in the first three quarters of this year. The company recently financed two loans to a joint venture that includes General Growth Properties, the mall company.

“There is less competition,” Mr. Merck said, “which has allowed lenders like ourselves to put a lot of very good loans on the books for properties that meet our guidelines.”

There are several reasons that banks have been driven to the sidelines, including a difficult economic environment and the sovereign debt crisis in Europe. The market for bonds backed by mortgages has also been weak, and this summer it hit a speed bump when Standard & Poor’s refused to issue a rating on a commercial mortgage bond offering, spooking the investment community. As a result, experts now estimate that what had been expected to be a $50 billion market this year will instead amount to less than $35 billion.

“It was a very optimistic winter and spring, then we turned 180 degrees and it has been nothing but negative,” said Manus Clancy, a managing director at Trepp, a commercial mortgage information provider. “We have seen a vastly different mentality than what we saw in late May.”

Many insurers have responded by increasing their 2011 mortgage allocations. “In 2007 through 2009, these companies sold off a lot of their mortgages,” said Richard D. Jones, a co-chairman of the finance and real estate practice groups at the law firm Dechert, “so now they are trying to rebalance their portfolios.”

For borrowers, life insurance companies can offer a price advantage over investment banks, experts said. Because banks pool their loans into bonds, they have to satisfy skittish bond buyers by offering them higher rates. The banks then pass on these higher rates to the borrower. But because most life insurers do not pool their loans into bonds, they can offer lower rates.

“It is a temporary consequence of a very fractured market,” Mr. Jones said. “Right now, the insurance companies are eating Wall Street’s lunch. If a life company wants to get a deal done, there is nothing anyone can do to compete with them.”

Also, life insurers’ mortgages are performing comparatively well. Some 99.6 percent of mortgages held by life insurance companies were in good standing as of the end of last year, according to Fitch Ratings. This is in large part because of their conservative lending approach and their “active management” of mortgage portfolios, Fitch said in a recent report.

Coming off such a strong performance, some life insurers are now exploring entering the mortgage bond market, an arena traditionally dominated by investment banks. Some insurers are becoming partners with banks to offer mortgage bond products. Under the agreements, the life insurers find the borrowers and originate the loans, and the banks pool those loans into bonds to sell. In this way, the life insurers earn fees for sourcing and originating the loans and the investment banks profit from selling mortgage bonds.

Life insurers want to team up with banks rather than go it alone because it allows them to be involved in more real estate lending without exceeding their asset guidelines. Typically, life insurers allocate less than 15 percent of their total assets to real estate, but because these loans are not on their balance sheets, they can be involved without bumping against these levels.

“Life insurance companies have risk management limits, but their relationships and their origination capabilities often exceed these limits, so this strategy of partnering with Wall Street makes sense,” said Tad Philipp, the director of commercial real estate research at Moody’s Investors Service. Offering mortgage bonds “also helps broaden the suite of loans they can offer borrowers,” he said.

Wall Street banks also do not want to allocate the resources to originate loans. “It is expensive to originate and service a loan, but we already have a team of 45 who this is all they do,” said Christine Hurtsellers, the chief investment officer for fixed income and proprietary investments at ING Investment Management, which is in talks to create a partnership with a bank.

This summer, the Prudential Mortgage Capital Company, a unit of Prudential Financial, announced it would join with Perella Weinberg Partners to create such a venture.

“There is only so much balance sheet capacity for the life insurance companies,” said David Twardock, the president of Prudential Mortgage Capital, “and there needs to be other loan products in the market that provide long-term fixed-rate financing.”

If the life insurance teams work with banks, that could help broaden the commercial mortgage market, Ms. Hurtsellers said. ING estimates that in the next year and a half, about $60 billion in commercial mortgage bonds are maturing, “so given that wave, these partnerships can help refinance the loans, extend them and just help generally solve the problem.”
733 2011-10-19 That has led a growing number of economists to argue that the collapse of housing prices, a defining feature of this downturn, is also a critical and underappreciated impediment to recovery. Americans have lost a vast amount of wealth, and they have lost faith in housing as an . They lack money, and they lack the confidence that they will have more money tomorrow.

Many say they believe that the bust has permanently changed their financial trajectory.

“People don’t expect their home to regain value, and that’s really led to a change in consumer attitudes about the economy that we’ve just never seen before,” said Richard Curtin, a professor of economics at the who directs its Survey of Consumers. The latest data from the survey, released Friday by , shows that expectations for economic growth have fallen to the lowest level since May 1980.

In Orlando, a city that trades in upbeat fantasies, the housing crash has been particularly painful. The total value of area homes has fallen below the total debt on those homes, according to the real estate analytics firm CoreLogic. In the parlance of the real estate world, Orlando is underwater, a distinction matched by .

“I don’t know that it’s going to get better. We just have to get used to it,” said Sherry DeWeese, whose home in Ocoee, a northwestern suburb of Orlando, is worth less than she paid for it 13 years ago — and about a third of its value at the peak of the market. “It was nothing to buy whatever we wanted. Now we just think about what we really need.”

Economists have only recently devoted serious study to how a decline in housing prices affects consumer spending, not least because this is the first decline in the average price of an American home since . A 2007 review of existing research by the reported that people reduce spending by $20 to $70 a year for every $1,000 decline in the value of their home.

This “wealth effect” is significantly larger for changes in home equity than in the value of other investments, such as , apparently because people regard changes in housing prices as more likely to endure.

A recent paper by Karl E. Case, an economics professor at Wellesley College, and two co-authors estimated the decline in home prices from 2005 to 2009 caused consumer spending to be $240 billion lower in 2010 than it otherwise would have been. That figure is equal to about 1.7 percent of annual economic activity, enough to be the difference between the mediocre recent growth and healthy growth. And it does not include all the other effects of the housing crash, including the low level of new home construction, that are also weighing on the economy.

Roy Pugsley, who owns a pool supply store in Winter Garden, another suburb here, said that he made 2,500 fewer sales during the first eight months of 2011 compared with the same period in 2007. That translates to one less person walking through the doors to buy chemicals or toys or spare parts in each hour that the store is open.

Mr. Pugsley said business actually increased in the early days of the ; customers had told him they were spending more time at home. But now people buy only what they need for maintenance. “People realized that it wasn’t going to get any better, and they stopped spending on their pools, too,” he said.

At Milcarsky’s Appliance Center in the adjacent town of Longwood, business now comes from people remodeling their own homes rather than builders, and customers are picking cheaper models, said Doug Morey, a sales manager.

“People who might have bought that” — he taps a stove with chunky burners, designed to look like it belongs in a restaurant kitchen — “are double-thinking it. Everyone has had to cut back.”

That means Milcarsky’s has cut back too. The company, which employed 26 people three years ago, now has about a dozen workers, and they are making less in salary and commissions.

“I might like to think that I’m middle class, but I’m not. I’m not anymore,” said Rae-Anne Crotty, a customer service manager at the store. She now shops for groceries at discount stores, she said, and buys gifts for her children at Christmas but not on their birthdays.

It remains the prevailing view of economic policy makers that economic activity will eventually return to the same trajectory as before the recession. Mr. Bernanke and others have said that they see no evidence of any permanent change in the economy. Previous bouts of economic pessimism, as in the early 1980s and early 1990s, went away once growth picked up.

But many people in the Orlando area do not share this confidence, at least not when it comes to their own prospects. Instead, like the Markeys, they are settling into lives of less prosperity.

The couple moved to Orlando 12 years ago from central in search of opportunities. The business Mr. Markey created, Stone Giant, grew to include two factories and 60 employees, and it installed granite countertops in up to 15 new kitchens every day.

His new company, Winter Park Granite, now installs two kitchens on the average day. He has eight employees but cannot afford for them or himself. The family income last year was less than a third of the $175,000 that he and his wife made in 2007, their last good year.

And he sees little room for growth. He has stopped spending money on advertising.

“We’re never going to get that big again,” he said. “I was someone employing people and taking people to the good life. Now I’m just trying to survive.”
734 2011-10-19 The arrest of a New York City police officer, who was accused of violating the civil rights of an African-American man during a stop-and-frisk arrest, provides good reason for Justice Department officials and state lawmakers to investigate whether others on the force are engaging in similar practices.

Federal prosecutors on Monday charged the officer, Michael Daragjati, with violating the man’s constitutional rights by falsely accusing him of resisting arrest. The criminal complaint suggests how easily that charge can be abused. Nearly 6,000 New Yorkers were taken into custody last year with resisting arrest as the most serious charge against them, the New York State Division of Criminal Justice Services has reported.

According to the complaint filed in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, text messages and calls by Officer Daragjati, which were intercepted in a wiretap in an investigation for other crimes, showed him fabricating facts and bragging to a friend that he had “fried another nigger” and that it was “no big deal.”

The African-American man was walking in a residential area of Staten Island when he was stopped, shoved against the side of a parked van and searched by Officer Daragjati, who is white. The officer found no drugs or weapons, but grew angry when the man complained about his treatment and asked for the officer’s name and badge number. Prosecutors say that Officer Daragjati arrested the man, who put up no struggle, and falsified a police report, charging the man with resisting arrest, a misdemeanor.

The officer’s conduct might easily have escaped notice had he not been under surveillance for alleged extortion and insurance fraud, with which he has also been charged. Civil rights lawyers have long complained about trumped-up arrests of mainly minority citizens who are dragged into the criminal justice system.

Commissioner Raymond Kelly recently directed the police not to arrest people with small amounts of marijuana unless the drug is in open view. Low-level marijuana offenses have contributed to the arrests of hundreds of thousands of people since the mid-1990s. We need to know whether bogus charges of resisting arrest are widespread.
735 2011-10-19 A civil liberties group filed a lawsuit on Tuesday seeking to force the New York Police Department to release the daily schedules of Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly.

The lawsuit, filed in State Supreme Court in Manhattan by the New York Civil Liberties Union, characterized Mr. Kelly as “the most important appointed” official in city government, and said that details of whom he meets with remained largely shrouded in secrecy.

Other high-placed officials, including the president, publicly disclose portions of their schedules, the suit said, and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo last month began posting a detailed version of his daily schedules online.

“There is no good reason for Commissioner Kelly to withhold this information from the public,” Donna Lieberman, the executive director of the civil liberties group, said in a statement. “If it’s safe for the leader of the country to disclose his schedule, then it’s safe for the N.Y.P.D. commissioner to do the same.”

The 10-page lawsuit, which seeks details of Mr. Kelly’s appointments dating to January 2002, when Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg tapped him for a second stint as police commissioner, was filed on behalf of Leonard Levitt, a former Newsday reporter who now writes a blog about law enforcement matters on his Web site, NYPD Confidential.

Mr. Levitt first requested copies of Mr. Kelly’s schedule in February, under the state’s Freedom of Information Law, four months after reporting last October on Mr. Kelly’s habit of entertaining guests at the Harvard Club, in Midtown. Though some of his expenses at the club, including the annual dues, were paid for by the New York City Police Foundation, neither the foundation nor a spokesman for Mr. Kelly would say whom the commissioner had entertained at the club.
736 2011-10-19 Republicans seem likely to reject several parts of Mr. Obama’s package, including new money for retaining teachers and repairing schools. And the president’s acerbic tone suggests that he knows as much.

Running against a hostile Congress is an appealing strategy for a president who, however much he has slipped in the polls, is still far more popular with voters than are his foes on Capitol Hill. Polls also show that most voters support large parts of the jobs bill, a point Mr. Obama drove home at every stop.

But the approach is not without risks for the president.

“What he’s obviously trying to do is model himself on Harry Truman and the ‘do-nothing Congress,’ ” said David Winston, a Republican strategist. “The problem with that is that the unemployment rate in November of 1948 was 3.8 percent.”

While Mr. Obama’s partisan jabs appeal to his Democratic base, they may turn off independent voters, who flocked to him in 2008 in part because of his carefully cultivated image as a leader who rises above the partisan fray. With the jobless rate closer to 10 percent than 4 percent, they may start to tune out the president.

The risks and advantages of the strategy were on display Tuesday at Guilford Technical Community College in Jamestown, N.C., where Mr. Obama spoke about the first piece of the jobs bill to face a vote: $35 billion in federal aid to states and cities for teachers, firefighters and police officers.

Mark Jewell, a 47-year-old teacher trainer, said that North Carolina’s schools desperately needed that money, and that he backed the president’s strategy of forcing Republicans to declare their position on every component of the jobs bill.

“We’re going back 50 years because of a Congress that wants to vote against anything Obama does,” Mr. Jewell said. “The Republicans are using it as a campaign tactic.”

But Thomas O’Connell, a 20-year-old student at the University of North Carolina, Greensboro, said that blaming Congress was not enough. “If he’s going to say the system is broken, he’s got to put forward something of substance himself,” he said.

Mr. O’Connell, who described himself as an Obama supporter but a disenchanted one, said he wished the president would propose public financing of political campaigns, rather than raising $1 billion for his own campaign.

There was a lot of sympathy for the president’s predicament among those who lined up to hear him at the community college. But there was also a sense that people’s patience was limited.

“We want to stand behind him and support him, but at some point we also want to see forward motion,” said Natalie Hopkins, an administrator in the Guilford County school district.

White House officials argue that Mr. Obama has laid out a detailed list of remedies in the American Jobs Act, including school aid and help for veterans in finding jobs, which the president will highlight with the first lady on Wednesday in Virginia.

In the end, they argued, Republicans will support some of the measures. But with at least five votes on parts of the bill likely to come up in the Senate, the exercise could keep the spotlight on those lawmakers until Thanksgiving. “This is the first act of a long drama,” a senior White House official said last week.

Mr. Obama seemed to recognize the yearning for an end to the rancor. He spoke of his efforts to find common cause with Republicans, telling the crowd in heavily Democratic Asheville, “Some of you have been mad at me for trying too hard to cooperate with them, haven’t you?” And he praised a free trade agreement with South Korea that passed the Senate with Republican support.

He also acknowledged that the Republicans had come up with an alternative to his jobs plan, though he quickly dismissed it. Speaking at a high school here, Mr. Obama claimed that the package would gut environmental regulations, roll back Wall Street reforms, leave 30 million Americans without health insurance and perhaps even cost jobs.

“I don’t know how you present a plan for jobs that results in less jobs,” Mr. Obama said to titters. “I mean, they didn’t call it the American No-Jobs Act.”
737 2011-10-19 The campaign is also reinvigorating the small but persistent band of Chinese rights advocates still reeling from an eight-month-old crackdown on dissent that has led to dozens of detentions.

In recent days, a number of prominent writers and bloggers have made the trip to Shandong, and an even wider circle of academics, lawyers and essayists have weighed in on what amounts to a rare wave of civil disobedience.

Hu Jia, a well-known dissident recently released from jail, posted a photo of himself wearing black sunglasses and a “Free Chen Guangcheng” T-shirt. Lei Yu, a historian at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, wrote a poem lamenting Mr. Chen’s suffering, and Mao Yushi, an economist and public intellectual, hinted that Mr. Chen’s mistreatment could stoke social disharmony.

“The extreme difficulties he has encountered shake the foundation of justice in our society,” he wrote.

In an act of guerrilla theater this week, activists in Beijing plastered a banner across the front of Shandong’s offices here that accused the authorities of harming China’s image.

“I think the campaign has entered an important new phase,” said He Peirong, 40, a rights advocate from Nanjing who has made the trip to Shandong four times — each resulting in beatings. “This time the social elite and the media are standing up for him.”

The flurry of attempted visits prompted the party-owned Global Times to pierce the media blackout surrounding Mr. Chen, 39, a self-trained lawyer who earned the ire of Shandong party officials by exposing a program of forced sterilizations and abortions and completed a 51-month prison term in September last year. But instead of being freed, he and his family were isolated.

Last week, in editorials in its English and Chinese editions, the newspaper gently suggested that local authorities provide information about his predicament to “depoliticize” the issue. “Blocking information and hoping inquires go away will only lead to worse consequences,” the English version read.

Taking advantage of a rare opening on a formerly banned subject, The Oriental Morning Post of Shanghai weighed in, criticizing Global Times for treating the authorities with kid gloves and disparaging Mr. Chen. The commentary described how local officials over the years have detained, beaten and chased away a succession of Chinese journalists trying to approach Mr. Chen’s hometown. “The media needs to objectively and comprehensively tell the public ‘who is Chen Guangcheng’ and the public will see things clearly,” it said.

Once hailed by the state media for defending peasants’ rights, Mr. Chen makes for a compelling cause célèbre. Blinded by a childhood illness, he helped the disabled win public benefits and aided farmers fighting illegal land seizures. But in 2005, Shandong officials turned against him when he tried to defend thousands of victims of a coercive family-planning campaign. A year later, in a trial that many legal experts described as a sham, a local court convicted him of destroying property and organizing a crowd to block traffic while he was under house arrest.

Since his release from jail, Mr. Chen, his wife and young daughter have been confined to their home without telephone service or Internet access. A revolving crew of guards is outside his house night and day.

According to rights advocates, Mr. Chen and his wife, Yuan Weijing, were beaten earlier this year by local officials after a video detailing their detention was posted on the Internet. In a letter circulated outside the village, Ms. Yuan described how the authorities later confiscated their electronic equipment and legal papers, cut power to the house and sealed their windows with metal panels.

Ms. He, the Nanjing-based Internet activist and a family friend, said officials constructed a house in the village last July that would make it easier to isolate the family, although she said it was unclear whether they had yet been moved.

Local security officials declined to answer questions about his case.

The details of Mr. Chen’s mistreatment and the harrowing encounters of those trying to break the blockade have galvanized a growing number of people. Last week, such accounts inspired a carload of physically disabled men and women to drive from nearby Anhui Province. “We just wanted Chen Guangcheng to know he’s not alone,” said Zhou Weilin, 46, who lost an arm in an industrial accident. The group was not attacked, but its members did not earn much sympathy from the guards, who tried to steal the milk they brought for Mr. Chen as they pushed them back toward their car.

Most visitors report gratuitous brutality. Writing on his blog, one reporter, Shi Yu, described how the police forced his taxi off the road and then allowed a group of men to rough him up while stealing his money, cellphone and jewelry.

Such accounts do not appear to be deterring the latest wave of crusaders. Among them is Xu Zhirong, 45, a real estate consultant who said he was terrified but resolved to “confront the evil of the system” this weekend. Although he believes that his visit will most likely prove futile, he hopes he may inspire others. “Just because you feel hopeless doesn’t mean you should stay complacent,” he said in an interview. “Even if it goes badly, I’ll keep going back until either Chen’s situation improves or there is no hope left at all.”
738 2011-10-19 IMAGINE you have a 10- or 11-year-old child, just entering a public middle school. How would you feel if, as part of a class ostensibly about the risk of sexually transmitted diseases, he and his classmates were given “risk cards” that graphically named a variety of solitary and mutual sex acts? Or if, in another lesson, he was encouraged to disregard what you told him about sex, and to rely instead on teachers and health clinic staff members?

That prospect would horrify most parents. But such lessons are part of a middle-school curriculum that Dennis M. Walcott, the New York City schools chancellor, has recommended for his system’s newly mandated sex-education classes. There is a parental “opt out,” but it is very limited, covering classes on contraception and birth control.

Observers can quarrel about the extent to which what is being mandated is an effect, or a contributing cause, of the sexualization of children in our society at younger ages. But no one can plausibly claim that teaching middle-schoolers about mutual masturbation is “neutral” between competing views of morality; the idea of “value free” sex education was exploded as a myth long ago. The effect of such lessons is as much to promote a certain sexual ideology among the young as it is to protect their health.

But beyond rival moral visions, the new policy raises a deeper issue: Should the government force parents — at least those not rich enough to afford private schooling — to send their children to classes that may contradict their moral and religious values on matters of intimacy and personal conduct?

Liberals and conservatives alike should say no. Such policies violate parents’ rights, whether they are Muslim, Jewish, Christian, Hindu, Buddhist or of no religion at all. To see why, we need to think carefully about the parent-child relationship that gives rise to the duties that parental rights serve and protect.
739 2011-10-19 Carl H. Lindner Jr., a billionaire who took over the Cincinnati Reds from Marge Schott, did junk-bond deals with Michael R. Milken and used his experience running the family dairy store to build a business empire, died on Monday in Cincinnati. He was 92.

His death was announced on the Web site of his company, the American Financial Group.

Mr. Lindner, who never finished high school, was chairman of American Financial, a Cincinnati-based financial holding company that had more than $17 billion in assets. In 2009, Forbes magazine estimated his personal wealth at $1.75 billion.

He also made a name for himself by becoming one of Mr. Milken’s earliest junk-bond players. But he showed his investment savvy by correctly predicting a decline in the junk-bond market in the late 1980s.

Mr. Lindner ruled over a maze of corporations with nearly 70,000 employees worldwide. American Financial owned, or held substantial investments in, Chiquita Brands International, one of the world’s largest food producers; the Charter Company, marketer of fuel to electric utilities; and the Great American Insurance Group.

Mr. Lindner became controlling partner and chief executive of the Cincinnati Reds in a 1999 deal that ended Ms. Schott’s rocky 15-year rule as owner. In contrast to her highly public style, Mr. Lindner stayed mostly in the background, though in 2000 he picked up Ken Griffey Jr. at the airport in his Rolls-Royce after a blockbuster trade had brought him to the Reds. Mr. Lindner sold his controlling share in the team in 2005.
740 2011-10-19 A New York police commander who pepper-sprayed protesters during the opening days of the Occupy Wall Street demonstrations last month faces an internal disciplinary charge that could cost him 10 vacation days, the police said Tuesday.

The commander, Deputy Inspector Anthony Bologna, has been given a so-called command discipline, according to a law enforcement official. Officials said investigators found that the inspector ran afoul of Police Department rules for the use of the spray. The department’s patrol guide, its policy manual, says pepper spray should be used primarily to control a suspect who is resisting arrest, or for protection; it does allow for its use in “disorder control,” but only by officers with special training.

The Internal Affairs Bureau reviewed the episode and found that Inspector Bologna “used pepper spray outside departmental guidelines,” said Paul J. Browne, the Police Department’s chief spokesman. He declined to elaborate.

The inspector can accept the charge and plead guilty, or he can opt for a departmental trial. Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly is the ultimate arbiter of punishment in such matters and has wide leeway in his decisions.

Inspector Bologna’s actions on Sept. 24, when he sprayed several penned-in women, were captured on video and spread widely on the Internet. It became a defining moment in the protests.
741 2011-10-19 Bailing out Europe’s banks may be less expensive than governments feared and investors hoped. European Union officials are discussing a plan that would require lenders to hit a demanding core Tier 1 capital ratio of 9 percent, but would not require them to factor in the effects of a deep recession. A lower-than-expected bill is good for the finances of euro zone governments, but may not be enough to win back the market’s confidence.

Europe’s latest recapitalization is not like the stress tests of July. Then, the European Banking Authority asked the Continent’s largest 90 lenders to reach a minimum core Tier 1 capital ratio, which is a measure of the banks’ strength, of 5 percent after a severe economic downturn.

The latest effort involves no such doomsday planning. The capital calculation is simply based on end-June balance sheets at banks. Many will be at or close to 9 percent already. According to the authority’s data, the 90 banks that participated in the summer tests had a combined, unstressed core Tier 1 ratio of 8.4 percent at the end of 2010. Since then, some have raised fresh capital, while most have increased their buffers with retained earnings.

Banks are not escaping entirely. Those with large exposures to troubled sovereign debt may have to hold an extra capital buffer. This could be substantial: if the sovereign debt disclosed in the July stress tests were marked to current market prices, banks would need to write off almost 80 billion euros, based on Breakingviews calculations.

Even then, the total capital shortfall might not exceed 100 billion euros ($111 billion), according to Morgan Stanley, or less than half the estimates of most analysts. That’s good news for euro zone governments, which are expected to finance most of the capital injections. But investors may be less impressed.
742 2011-10-19 In the months since the Japanese tsunami, we’ve heard a lot about Chernobyl as a worst-case example: here’s how bad Fukushima could have been. Now PBS’s “Nature” offers another vision: Chernobyl as a best-case demonstration that life abides despite the human race’s efforts to eradicate it. As long as the life in question isn’t ours, that is.

“Radioactive Wolves,” the 30th-season premiere of this documentary series on Wednesday, goes inside the 1,100-square-mile “exclusion zone” straddling Ukraine and Belarus that has been virtually uninhabited since the Chernobyl nuclear disaster in 1986. Film crews accompany naturalists and biologists who make short, tightly controlled research trips, investigating what has happened to animals and landscape since the rapid removal of several hundred thousand people.

The paradox of Chernobyl is that it became a haven for unsuspecting wildlife by virtue of its being poisoned. Tests of animal bones, where radioactivity gathers, reveal levels so high that the carcasses shouldn’t be touched with bare hands.

But the prognosis, coyly withheld until the end of the hour, is positive. (Skip to the next paragraph if you’d rather enjoy the suspense.) While the rate of slight birth abnormalities is twice as high as normal among the zone’s growing animal population (but still in the single digits), overall health appears to be fine. It wouldn’t be an acceptable situation for humans, but the dormice and eagles and gray wolves don’t appear to be bothered.
743 2011-10-19 Locking in a static mix of stocks and bonds may not provide a sufficient buffer against volatility. Creating a lower-risk portfolio using alternative investments may provide more stability than the traditional tactic of moving money from stocks into bonds, as new risks emerge among troubled global credit markets.

“In times of crisis, credit and equity risk are highly correlated, meaning they go down together,” said Nadia Papagiannis, a chartered financial analyst and director of alternative fund research for Morningstar, the financial research company in Chicago.

“We must now think about interest rate risk, and how that can cause losses in bonds across the board, regardless of credit quality,” she added. “Alternative investments offer risk-managed approaches to both stocks, bonds and also nontraditional asset classes, including currencies and managed futures/commodities.” (Disclosure: I occasionally write for Morningstar.com on a freelance basis.)

What’s the best way to dip your feet in the alternatives pool? Start by acquainting yourself with the different asset classes, which include commodities, real estate, currencies and timber. Commodities and real estate, for example, may move in the opposite direction of stocks.

You can also choose strategy-oriented funds to offset stock market risk. It’s possible to pick funds that can go long and short at the same time, gain only in bear markets or are market-neutral — producing a small return in any market climate.

Some funds may focus on one theme, like distressed companies or those likely to be acquired or merged. It’s also possible to take several bets in multistrategy funds that mimic hedge fund management.

The most telling indicator for how an alternative may offer refuge from stock market risk is how it moves relative to a benchmark like the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index of the largest United States companies. For insulation from stocks, you want assets that move in the opposite direction or do not closely echo the S.& P. index.

The Dow Jones/UBS Commodity Index, for example, has shown a monthly correlation of 0.39, with 1.00 being a perfect tracking of the S.& P. index, said David Reilly, a chartered financial analyst and president of Decision Critical Resources in Boston. The American dollar, as measured by the U.S. Dollar Index, follows stocks even less — with a negative 0.34 correlation, Mr. Reilly found in a study of the period from June 30, 2001, through June 30, 2011.

Alternative funds allow you to choose specific areas to reduce stock, credit, political or currency risk.

Concerned about currency risk when the dollar loses value to other denominations? The Merk Hard Currency Fund (MERKX) manages a basket of currencies that may do well when the dollar is down, and offers a small allocation to gold.

The Wasatch Long/Short Fund (FMLSX), has the ability to buy stocks and bonds and sell short in securities its managers think are overvalued. The fund has beaten the S.& P. 500 over the last five years, returning 3.25 percent, compared with a negative 1.18 percent for the S.& P. through Sept. 30.

Bets on the price trends in things as diverse as stock indexes and commodities can be represented by a derivatives-trading fund like the AQR Managed Futures Strategy Fund (AQMIX).

A market-neutral fund, which aims to produce a modest return in most market climates, is also a worthy consideration. The 22-year-old Merger Fund (MERFX), for example, is managed to “produce positive returns under a wide variety of market conditions.”

Be careful when you enter the alternatives universe, though. These funds may involve high-risk, complex hedging and leverage strategies (using borrowed money) that you may not understand. They also tend to be more expensive, with annual expense ratios often double those of plain-vanilla managed stock mutual funds, Morningstar has found.

Every alternative fund also has a unique risk-return portfolio. Some may move in the opposite direction of bonds, while others may only equal returns on Treasury bills. No single fund is risk-free, and there’s always an additional cost for the ability to hedge an asset class.

Since there is no such thing as an off-the-shelf all-in-one alternatives fund, your portfolio purchases will be need to be customized to complement what you already own and your financial goals. Don’t choose just one fund to represent alternatives; diversify among different strategies. There are many moving parts.

Most of all, be aware of the steep learning curve for alternatives. They are too complicated for casual market timers. If you are not comfortable with getting up to speed on them, work with a fiduciary adviser such as a certified financial planner, registered investment adviser or certified financial analyst to build the right portfolio for you. An adviser may be able to buy lower-cost share classes of these funds, to save you money on annual expenses and find the best managers.
744 2011-10-19 There certainly are more choices and, as Mr. Johnson suggested, many of them are just getting out of the starting blocks. Five E.T.F.’s investing in alternatives began trading in 2011, and they have been joined recently by some unusual mutual funds.

Guinness Atkinson Renminbi Yuan & Bond has been going since July. It hardly could have been started much earlier; the renminbi, or yuan, does not float freely on international markets — authorities have begun to loosen their grip on the renminbi-dollar exchange rate only in the last few years — and the Chinese bond market has existed for just over a year, the fund’s manager, Edmund Harriss, pointed out.

In an indication of just how many arcane asset classes and investment methods there are, Litman Gregory Masters Alternative Strategies was introduced this month. It’s a vessel containing portfolios run by four outside managers using various unconventional approaches, like arbitrage, a hedge fund strategy in which the goal is to profit from discrepancies in the prices of related securities, like the stocks of companies on either side of a merger.

Funds like these are most suitable for well-off investors who are between fabulously wealthy and middle class, advisers say. The very rich often enter exotic niches through vehicles not open to the public. As for small investors, even a modest stake could be excessive; alternatives are recommended to be held in thin proportions — thinner still for any individual strategy.

“First and foremost, you need to be adequately diversified,” Mr. Young said. A position of “3 percent to 5 percent is as much as anyone can handle” in any particular alternative fund, in his view. For that to work out to a meaningful dollar amount in a portfolio, “you need at least six figures” of liquid net worth.

Sometimes such wherewithal is a prerequisite. While E.T.F.’s can be bought in virtually any amount because they are traded on stock exchanges, mutual fund providers set minimum investments to eliminate prospective shareholders for whom their funds may be inappropriate.

Litman Gregory requires a $1,000 stake in Masters Alternative Strategies. The figure is $10,000 for the Guinness Atkinson Chinese currency fund, high enough that only the fairly well-to-do could manage a holding that was small enough to minimize risk to the portfolio yet large enough to deliver meaningful returns.

Much of the fund’s $78 million in assets, as of the end of August, has come from high-net-worth individuals making a typical investment of $50,000 to $200,000, Mr. Harriss said. While Chinese local currency debt may seem like a racy investment objective, he observed that shareholders were using the fund in place of bank deposits or money market funds rather than as a replacement for, say, Chinese stocks.

“We can’t call it a money market fund, but it’s something that people are looking at in that part of their allocation,” he said.

The performance has been far closer to that of cash than the Chinese stock market. From July 1 to Oct. 17, the fund fell about 1.5 percent, compared with a 13.7 percent decline for the Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index. Investment advisers shared no misgivings about any specific fund or exotic asset class. Some expressed concern, however, that limited size and a narrower investor base could make some niche markets more fragile than stocks or bonds.

“People need to be very cautious about these things,” said Ronald W. Rogé, a Bohemia, N.Y., financial planner. “They need to understand them. They’re investing in something where the market is very small and there’s not much liquidity. If there’s a run on that market, a fund is going to drop significantly, so you need to have your eyes wide open.”

Mr. Rogé prefers to steer investors into portfolios called world allocation funds, which are hybrid vehicles with characteristics of mainstream and alternative funds. Their managers generally have latitude to invest in assets of all sorts in any region or business sector. They can also go short, betting that the price of a security will fall.

Having such broad discretion should be alternative enough for most investors, in his view. Beyond that, he expects the most astute managers of such funds to do a better job of blending assets into a portfolio than the typical private investor or financial adviser. Some that he recommends are Pimco All Asset All Authority, First Eagle Global, Robeco Boston Partners L/S Research and AQR Risk Parity.

Investors who decide instead to build their own portfolios of alternatives should make sure to study the asset classes and candidate funds carefully, Mr. Rogé added. “It’s important to understand what you’re getting into,” he said, “so that if it blows up you blame yourself, not anyone else.”
745 2011-10-19 “Consumers are a lot smarter, and they’re going to wait,” said Mr. Moscowitz, who had estimated that Apple would sell 20.6 milion iPhones in the quarter. The company reported sales of 17.07 million iPhones.

David Rolfe, chief investment officer for Wedgewood Partners, a money management firm whose biggest holding is Apple, said the company’s financial forecast of $37 billion in revenue for the next quarter was strong enough that he thinks demand for the company’s products remains robust.

“There’s no way you get to $37 billion unless the iPad, iPhone and Mac franchises are really healthy,” Mr. Rolfe said.

Apple said its net profit for its fiscal fourth quarter was $6.62 billion, or $7.05 a share, up from $4.31 billion a year ago, or $4.64 a share, a 54 percent increase. Revenue rose to $28.27 billion from $20.34 billion, a 39 percent increase. Those results were well ahead of the $5.50 a share in earnings and $25 billion in revenue that Apple had forecast for the quarter, which ended Sept. 24.

The period was Apple’s first officially under the leadership of Timothy D. Cook, who was named chief executive after Steven P. Jobs, Apple’s co-founder, resigned from the helm of the company on Aug. 24. Mr. Jobs died on Oct. 5 after a long battle with pancreatic cancer.

The death of Mr. Jobs has stirred deep emotions inside and outside Apple and raised concerns about whether the company can, in the long run, continue its remarkable streak of hits.

In a conference call with analysts, Mr. Cook said the “world has lost a visionary” with the death of Mr. Jobs. “That spirit will forever be the foundation for Apple, and we’re dedicated to continuing the amazing work he loved so much,” he said.

Despite the disappointing iPhone sales, Mr. Cook said he was confident that Apple would set “an all-time record” for iPhone sales in the current holiday quarter. He added that the company had a product pipeline that’s “unbelievable.”

The company said it sold 11.12 million iPads during the quarter, up from 4.19 million a year ago. It has sold over 40 million of the devices since it introduced it about 18 months ago, a number that Mr. Cook said was beyond Apple’s “wildest dreams.”

While routinely overshadowed by the company’s younger, more glamorous businesses, the most venerable product family in Apple’s lineup — Mac computers — continued to perform well. The standout in that division during the quarter was a remodeled version of Apple’s notebook computer, the MacBook Air, which came out late last year.

Apple said it sold 4.89 million Macs in the quarter, up from 3.89 million a year ago.

In contrast to its heftier market share in mobile phones and tablets, Apple remains a relatively small player in the computer market, with a 5.1 percent of global PC shipments during the third quarter, according to the research firm IDC. But that figure has been growing in recent years, rising from 4.2 percent a year ago.

Apple managed those gains because Mac shipments grew almost 26 percent during the third quarter, compared with IDC’s estimate of less than 4 percent growth for the overall computer business. At an event to introduce the new iPhone this month, Apple’s Mr. Cook said the company’s Mac business had exceeded the growth rate of the industry for the last five years.

Apple’s iPhone sales show the company is still thriving in the mobile phone market, even though Google’s Android operating system now powers significantly more smartphones. In the second quarter, handsets running Android software accounted for 43.4 percent of the worldwide smartphone market, compared with 18.2 percent for Apple, the research firm Gartner estimates.

Both companies are seeing growth in their mobile businesses, although it is easier to tell how Apple is profiting because it sells a device. Google, by contrast, gives away Android for free to handset makers, with the intention of generating revenue from advertising when consumers conduct tasks on Android phones. The growth of both Apple and Google has come at the expense of incumbents in the industry like the BlackBerry-maker Research in Motion.
746 2011-10-19 “College Diversity Nears Its Last Stand” (Sunday Review, Oct. 16) offers insight into the legal status of race-based affirmative action in college admissions. Given the good possibility that the Supreme Court will further limit that form of affirmative action, we should look to an alternative approach: considering economic status instead of race.

Addressing racial injustice directly is difficult and has inspired a strong backlash in the culture wars. Using means as a factor offers many of the same advantages — economic circumstances correlate closely with race — without the backlash.

Several public universities in states like California, Washington and Florida that have banned race-based affirmative action are already using means as a factor in their admissions decisions. Like traditional affirmative action, giving special consideration to socioeconomic disadvantages can enhance both individual opportunity and campus diversity. Of course, ending affirmative action has reduced racial diversity in many cases.

But considering race without means might benefit wealthier members of a minority group — those who are already the most competitive — which seems unfair and not in keeping with the goals of affirmative action. We should examine whether making economic diversity a priority in college admissions might not offer a better way to address both economic and racial imbalances.

The writer is a major in the United States Army and an Asia analyst.

Editors’ Note: We invite readers to respond to this letter for our Sunday Dialogue. We plan to publish responses and Mr. Lowsen’s rejoinder in the Sunday Review. E-mail: letters@nytimes.com
747 2011-10-19 Intel’s message to Wall Street on Tuesday: What slump?

Intel’s third-quarter earnings swept past Wall’s Street’s forecast, and its sales hit a new high once again as semiconductor shipments to China and other emerging markets helped offset weakness in United States sales.

“Enterprise PC demand remains strong, and consumer demand in emerging markets continues to be strong,” Paul S. Otellini, Intel’s chief executive, said in a conference call with analysts. “The global PC landscape is changing.”

Mr. Otellini said China and Brazil were now two out of the three biggest computer markets today. The third, the United States, remained steady for chips going into products destined for offices and data centers as American corporations continued to update their systems. Mr. Otellini said notebook computer demand was strong, but the overall consumer PC market in United States continued to be weak.

Intel’s sales rose 28 percent in the third quarter, to $14.2 billion from $11.1 billion in the same period last year. The company posted net income of $3.5 billion or 65 cents a share, a 17 percent improvement over the same period last year when Intel reported net income of $2.96 billion, or 52 cents per share. Wall Street analysts had expected net income of 61 cents a share on sales of $13.9 billion.

Looking ahead, Intel said revenue in the current quarter would be $14.7 billion, compared with Wall Street forecasts of $14.23 billion in sales. Mr. Otellini said the company was on track to reach $55 billion in revenue in 2011, a 26 percent increase from the previous year.
748 2011-10-19 Mrs. Clinton is the highest-ranking American official to visit Libya since the fall of Tripoli two months ago, the climax of a conflict in which the Obama administration went to some lengths to play down American involvement. She is the first secretary of state to visit Libya since Condoleezza Rice in 2008, during a thaw in the Qaddafi government’s international isolation.

“Now the hard part begins,” Mrs. Clinton told Libya’s interim prime minister, Mahmoud Jibril, when she greeted him on the steps of the conference hall.

The United States has contributed $135 million in assistance to Libya’s new leaders since February, including humanitarian aid and military equipment — though not weapons, which France, Qatar and other nations have supplied. Mrs. Clinton promised more help on Tuesday, including medical equipment and treatment in the United States for some of the most gravely wounded fighters, educational and cultural exchanges and a project with Oberlin College in Ohio to help preserve ancient ruins at Cyrene.

Mrs. Clinton said the relatively meager amount of new assistance reflected not only fiscal austerity at home — she told Mr. Jibril that such aid faced deep opposition in Congress — but also the fact that oil-rich Libya needed expertise more than cash to rebuild its society and economy after four decades under Colonel Qaddafi.

One of the largest pieces of the aid — $40 million — involves expanding the search for mobile antiaircraft rockets in an effort to keep them out of terrorists’ hands after they were looted from Libya’s arsenals. The United States has sent 14 civilian contractors to join the hunt for the missiles, which, along with sealed stockpiles of chemical weapons, are among the most worrisome aspects of Colonel Qaddafi’s fall.

Mrs. Clinton arrived a day after the interim government said it had taken control of Bani Walid, a loyalist enclave in the desert south of Tripoli. The anti-Qaddafi forces had been stalled for weeks at the approach in a valley dominated by loyalist positions on the hills above the city.

On Tuesday, though, anti-Qaddafi fighters celebrated in one of the town’s squares, near an electric utility building that appeared to have been flattened by an airstrike. Commanders said they had captured hundreds of fighters during an assault on Sunday. Many more had fled, along with most of Bani Walid’s residents.

“It’s like a city of ghosts,” said Hatem Dwaik, a fighter from Tripoli.

With no one to stop them, some former rebels looted and burned houses, as they have in other loyalist towns. New cars could be seen being carted out of town on the back of trucks. A transitional government official, Abdulhakim Momen, said several of the houses he owned in the city had been looted.

“We are sorry for this,” Mr. Momen said. “It is a few people. There are honorable freedom fighters.”

A commander, Mohamed Bashir, said the former rebels had received information that Colonel Qaddafi and his son Seif al-Islam Qaddafi had been in Bani Walid after the fall of Tripoli, though that information could not be independently confirmed. Colonel Qaddafi had been seen in the city twice about a month ago, and Seif had fled in recent days, he said.

“We will make the city safe,” he said. “The residents will come back.”

With loyalist forces clinging to a small district of Colonel Qaddafi’s hometown, Surt, the new government has yet to proclaim total victory, and in her public remarks Mrs. Clinton repeatedly noted that the fighting continued.

The continued resistance and Colonel Qaddafi’s success at eluding capture have created uncertainty and fear about a political transition that is only now gaining momentum in Libya and has uncomfortable parallels to Saddam Hussein’s eight months in hiding after the fall of Iraq in 2003. It was during that period that an insurgency took root in Iraq that continues to simmer, years after Mr. Hussein’s capture, trial and execution.

“I wouldn’t underestimate Qaddafi’s ability to be a lethal nuisance,” a senior administration official said.

Mrs. Clinton privately urged the new government to keep its promises not to unleash retaliatory violence or tolerate abuses of the sort that Human Rights Watch has documented.

“It is going to be a challenge for them to make sure that in all cases they are able to have fair judicial procedures that meet international standards, just given the history of Libya over the past 42 years,” the official said. “The intentions certainly strike us as being sincere — we have positive examples — but there’s definitely going to be challenges going forward.”

Mrs. Clinton also raised the case of Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi, the Libyan man convicted in a Scottish court for the bombing of a Pan Am jetliner over Lockerbie, Scotland, in 1988. He was released from prison on humanitarian grounds and returned to Libya two years ago to a hero’s welcome. Despite assertions at the time that he was terminally ill and near death, he is still alive and living in Tripoli, leading many in Congress to demand his arrest.

Mrs. Clinton, for her part, reiterated that Mr. Megrahi should never have been released, and noted that the Justice Department considered the bombing an open case. But she did not explicitly call on the new government to order his detention.

“They have assured us,” she said of the Libyan officials, “they understand how strongly the United States feel about this case.”

Mrs. Clinton spent six and a half hours on the ground in Libya before returning to Malta. She spoke to students at the University of Tripoli, who peppered her with broad questions about democracy, political parties, free speech and the aspirations of the Palestinians for their own state, as well as specific requests for educational exchanges for dentists and librarians.

She also visited Tripoli Medical Center, where she promised doctors to help untangle logistical challenges that would allow patients to be transferred abroad for treatment. In one room, she met three fighters who had been gravely wounded in combat near Bani Walid and another loyalist stronghold in the south, Sabha. One man had lost a leg.

“We are on your side,” she told one of the men.
749 2011-10-19 The armed wing of Hamas made clear that for it the conflict with Israel was hardly over. “We will not give up until prisons are shut down,” a masked spokesman for the group, who identified himself as Abu Obaida, said in a televised statement in Gaza. “A chapter has ended but there are other chapters.”

Abu Obaida also said that Hamas treated Sergeant Shalit “according to the Islamic morals,” while Israel “deliberately dealt with our prisoners with torture, compulsion and revenge.”

One of the freed prisoners, Yehya Sinwar, a co-founder of an early security wing of Hamas, was defiant. He promised “to work hard to free all prisoners, especially those who serve high sentences, whatever the price was.”

Another was Wafa al-Bass, who has been in prison since 2005 when she used the chance for treatment at an Israeli hospital as a pretext to bring a suicide belt through the Erez crossing — trying to explode it when caught. Upon arrival in Gaza, she said that Palestinians should “take another Shalit” every year until all the remaining 5,000 Palestinians prisoners in Israeli jails went free.

Israel displayed a calibrated mix of relieved celebration and acknowledgment — both of the pain and death that the released Palestinians caused many families and of the risk that their release may pose to Israelis.

Several petitions to block or alter the exchange had been rejected by Israel’s high court on Monday. The scene at the courtroom was emotionally charged, with some families who lost members in terrorist attacks assailing the Shalit family and the government.

Mr. Netanyahu wrote letters to the bereaved families saying he understood their heartache.

“I know that the price is very heavy for you,” he wrote. “I understand the difficulty to countenance that the evil people who perpetrated the appalling crimes against your loved ones will not pay the full price that they deserve. During these moments I hope that you will find solace that I and the entire nation of Israel embrace you and share your pain.”

On Tuesday, Mr. Netanyahu, in his remarks at Tel Nof base, said Israel would continue to fight terrorism and warned that any released prisoner who returned to violence was “taking his life into his hands.”

The deal is likely to strengthen Hamas within Palestinian politics, adding to the difficulties for President of and efforts to revive the peace process with Israel. Egypt, a key broker of the deal, will likely gain, as will , a supporter of Hamas. Hamas may even move its headquarters to Egypt from the Syrian capital, Damascus, where President Bashar al-Assad is facing strong popular revolt. And if the prisoner exchange emboldens Hamas to carry out more actions against Israel, that would likely empower the hawkish right in Israel.

Sergeant Shalit, the first captive Israeli soldier returned home alive in 26 years, was unexpectedly interviewed on Egyptian television before being handed over to Israel. Sitting in a blue checked shirt and speaking Hebrew, he smiled and reflected on the questions before answering them.

Asked if he had feared that he would never get out, Sergeant Shalit answered that he worried it would take many more years although in the past month he had suspected a deal was in the works. He said he was told of his release a week ago.

Asked what he missed most in prison, he replied, “My family and my friends and seeing and talking with people. The worst was having to do the same thing every day over and over.”

He was told that Israel still had thousands of prisoners and was asked if he would like them released. “I will be happy for them to be released if they don’t return to fight us,” he said. “I very much hope that this deal will advance peace.”

Rafah, the most isolated part of Gaza, was where the Shalit saga began and ended. In June 2006, Hamas and two other militant factions raided an Israeli military post at Kerem Shalom via a long tunnel beneath the Rafah sands under the border, capturing the young soldier, then a corporal. He was never seen in public during his captivity. On Tuesday, Egyptian television showed Sergeant Shalit being rushed through the Rafah crossing terminal from Gaza into Egypt accompanied by Hamas and Egyptian officials.

Soon afterward, an Israeli military statement said: “Gilad Shalit crossed the border into Israel, ending over five years in captivity.”

Sergeant Shalit — who was promoted twice while in captivity — was brought to the Tel Nof base after his medical check, which took longer than expected, raising concern about his health. At the base where he reunited with his family and met Mr. Netanyahu, he also met Defense Minister Ehud Barak and Lt. Gen. Benny Gantz, the military chief of staff.

After a more extensive medical examination and some time with the officials and his family, Sergeant Shalit and his family were transported by helicopter to their home in northern Israel. Reporters and onlookers were barred from his neighborhood to give the family a measure of privacy. Chiefs of major Israeli news organizations vowed to respect the restrictions.

Fawzi Barhoum, a Hamas spokesman, told television that the first step of the agreement was complete. Speaking from the Rafah crossing point, Mr. Barhoum warned Israel against “maneuvering or playing with any article of the agreement.” He added that Egyptian mediators had assured Hamas that they would not allow Israel to violate the agreement.

Both Israel and the divided Palestinian leadership — Fatah runs the West Bank while Hamas controls the Gaza Strip — had made elaborate preparations for the handover of the prisoners, many of them held far longer than Sergeant Shalit.

Throngs of excited Palestinians woke to mosque loudspeakers crying “God is great!” and “Victory to God!” as they awaited the arrival of buses carrying the 477 prisoners. Another 550 are expected to be released in two months. Two female prisoners due to be sent to Gaza were demanding instead to be sent to Egypt. Turkey was expecting to receive about 10 prisoners, according to its foreign minister, Ahmet Davutoglu. The Anatolian news agency reported that around 40 Palestinians would be relocated to Turkey, and Egypt and Turkey.

Shortly after dawn, the Hamas-run government took busloads of journalists in a tightly controlled media operation to the Rafah crossing Armed members of Hamas’s militant wing, the Qassam Brigades, lined the main highway to the crossing, wearing black and green bandanas and balaclavas. Some carried Kalashnikov assault rifles while others bore rocket-propelled grenade launchers.

Many hundreds, perhaps thousands, of the guards — at some points posted every 15 feet — had apparently been deployed to forestall disruptions. A celebratory rally was planned at Brigades Park in one of Gaza’s largest open spaces. There a stage had been erected for the Hamas prime minister, Ismail Haniya, to address the crowd and welcome the returnees.

The buses carrying the prisoners drove through a huge crowd of Hamas police and a drum band and honor guard. The men disembarked one by one and ran a gantlet of people who cheered them, held up camera phones, saluted and patted them on the back. Some were given sashes with the Palestinian colors.

All along Salahuddin Street, the main north-south road that runs the length of the Gaza Strip, Hamas activists had attached Islamist banners to streetlights on Monday.

Dozens of the released prisoners attended a reception given by President Abbas in Ramallah in the West Bank. Although the exchange was negotiated by his rivals in Hamas, the release of prisoners was a source of national celebration. School was canceled so that children could participate.

“We thank God that you returned safe and sound to your families, your brothers, and your homeland after this forced disappearance because you struggled for your homeland,” Mr. Abbas told the freed prisoners and well wishers. “We pray that God enables us to see the rest of our sisters and brothers freed in this yard. Your sacrifices, and efforts and work were not in vain. You worked and struggled and sacrificed. You will see the results of your sacrifices in the independent Palestinian state.”

At Rafah, a woman arrived with a photograph of her son, who was killed in the raid that captured Gilad Shalit. He was Mohammad Azmi Firwana, 23, from Khan Younis.

“I have come to greet the prisoners because they are all like my sons and daughters,” said the woman, Ahlam Firwana. “We have not got Mohammad’s body back yet. We have heard nothing.”
750 2011-10-19 St.-Joseph wines, more vinous than fruity with an often chewy density, suggest beef, perhaps a nice hunk of tenderloin for two. This cut offers a good chance to try grass-fed meat. It is ordinarily tougher, but the filet is steak at its most tender. And while the filet is often bland, grass-fed meat can have a stronger flavor. Here, it is seared, then roasted, if you can call it that: the beef cooks so fast you might just walk it past a hot oven.

1. Slice away and finely chop the chard stems. Coarsely chop the leaves. Heat 2 tablespoons oil in a small skillet. Add the stems and 2 tablespoons shallots. Sauté on medium until soft but not browned. Transfer to a food processor. Add the leaves and a few tablespoons water to the skillet and cook on medium-high a few minutes, until they wilt.

2. When the chard leaves are cool enough to handle, squeeze out all liquid (a potato ricer works well). Add the drained leaves to the food processor with the stems and purée. Add half the anchovies, the crème fraîche and 1 1/2 tablespoons butter. Process briefly and transfer to a small saucepan.

3. Heat oven to 450 degrees. Rub the beef with the remaining oil and season with salt and pepper. Over medium-high heat, warm a nonreactive oven-proof pan that will hold the beef comfortably. Brown the beef on all sides, about 5 minutes. Place the pan in the oven and roast to an internal temperature of 115 degrees for medium rare, about 15 minutes (for medium, roast 5 minutes more). Transfer the beef to a cutting board to rest.

4. Reheat the Swiss chard mixture and keep warm. Add the remaining shallots to the pan used for the beef and cook on medium heat until soft. Stir in the remaining anchovies and thyme. Add the vinegar, increasing the heat and cooking until it just slicks the pan. Add the wine, cook a few minutes, then swirl in the remaining butter in bits. Cook until the sauce thickens a bit. Season to taste with salt and pepper.

5. Spread the Swiss chard along one side of a small platter or each of two dinner plates. Cut the beef in six thick slices and arrange partly on the chard. Spoon the sauce along the other side of the beef.
751 2011-10-19 Time: 2 1/2 hours, plus at least 2 1/2 hours’ resting

1. At least 2 hours or the night before baking, toss the pumpkin with 1/4 teaspoon salt in a colander set over a bowl. Place a heavy weight on top, cover with plastic and refrigerate. Discard any liquid in bottom of bowl.

2. To make the pastry, in a large bowl combine 4 1/2 cups flour and 1 1/2 teaspoons salt. With pastry cutter or fork, mix in 3/4 cup oil until it forms coarse crumbs. Add 2/3 cup (163 grams) very cold water, a few tablespoons at a time, until mixture just comes together. The dough will be stretchier than a pie crust. Form into a ball, cover with plastic, and refrigerate at least 1 hour.

3. Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Toss the peppers and onion with 2 1/2 tablespoons oil and 1/2 teaspoon salt. Spread on 2 large baking sheets in one layer. Roast, tossing occasionally, until vegetables are caramelized and golden, about 40 minutes.

4. In a large bowl, combine the pumpkin, pepper-onion mixture, olives, thyme, paprika, black pepper and garlic.

5. Preheat the oven to 425 degrees and grease a large baking sheet. Dust a work surface lightly with flour. Roll out dough into a 17-by-12-inch rectangle. With long side facing you, spread vegetable mixture evenly over right half of dough. Dab edges of dough with water. Fold left half over filling and pinch edges firmly to seal. Using knife, cut a slit in center of crust, pulling back edges slightly to form a 2 1/2-inch hole.

6. Transfer crust to baking sheet. Bake for 20 minutes, reduce heat to 350 degrees and continue baking until vegetables are fork tender and crust is well browned, 35 to 40 minutes longer. Cool for at least 30 minutes before serving. Serve warm or at room temperature.
752 2011-10-19 The House Ethics Committee, after a two-year delay, has reopened its investigation into whether Representative Jesse Jackson Jr. conducted a ''public campaign'' in late 2008 to secure an appointment to President Obama's former Senate seat in Illin...
753 2011-10-19 PRICE--David Vincent, age 31, left this world suddenly on October 15, 2011. A Requiem Funeral Service will be on Friday, October 21st at 11:30 in Holy Ghost Russian Orthodox Church on East Main St. Bridgeport, CT. Interment will follow immediately...
754 2011-10-19 Producer prices in the United States rose in September at their fastest pace in five months and the cost of gasoline surged, but a small gain in core prices suggested that the increased price pressure was unlikely to be sustained.

The Labor Department said Tuesday that its seasonally adjusted index for prices received by farms, factories and refineries increased 0.8 percent after being flat in August.

Stripping out volatile food and energy prices, wholesale prices rose 0.2 percent after inching up 0.1 percent in August.

“Slower growth abroad suggests further moderation in demand for raw materials heading into the fourth quarter, which will likely translate into inflation moderation,” said Lindsey Piegza, an economist at FTN Financial in New York.

Gasoline prices climbed 4.2 percent, the largest gain since March, after dropping 1 percent in August. Economists, however, dismissed the rise in the cost of gasoline, attributing it to how the data was adjusted to try to smooth seasonal volatility.

“It probably did not point to a new trend to higher inflation,” said Gary Thayer, chief macro strategist at Wells Fargo Advisors in St. Louis.
755 2011-10-20 Bo K. Brownstein, the head of Big 5 Asset Management and a former banker at Credit Suisse in New York, is expected to admit to trading on a confidential stock tip....
756 2011-10-20 Bo K. Brownstein, the head of Big 5 Asset Management and a former banker at Credit Suisse in New York, is expected on Friday to admit to trading on a confidential stock tip....
757 2011-10-20 IMAGINE the panic and terror experienced by the monkeys, bears, lions and leopards that ran loose in Ohio earlier this week as they were chased and then killed by the police. Imagine the heartbreak of the police officers who were obliged to destroy the rambling menagerie. Officers are not trained to stalk big game and bring them in alive with tranquilizer darts.

Why was there no law regulating the animal collection of Terry Thompson, who freed his animals and then apparently killed himself?

I’ve spent the last few years prowling America in search of people who share their lives with great apes, big cats and long snakes. Mr. Thompson is not unique.

Monkeys seem particularly ubiquitous; a cursory online search can connect you with a purveyor. Exotic animal auctions are crowded with buyers, and the Captive Wild Animal Protection Coalition — which opposes the practice — estimates the number of exotic fanciers in the millions.

Owners who bond with their pets as cubs or kittens, bottle-feed and cuddle them, often convince themselves that their relationship is special and their full-grown bear or cat will never turn on them. Yet it’s not just about cuteness and beauty; controlling an animal that arouses fear in other people can be appealing. That’s why those with egos that need feeding, from Kublai Khan to William Randolph Hearst to Mexican drug traffickers, are connected by the desire to stock their personal zoos.
758 2011-10-20 A public radio host who was linked this week to antiwar and anti-corporate-greed protests in Washington has been fired by one of her radio producers....
759 2011-10-20 A public radio host who was linked this week to antiwar and anti-corporate-greed protests in Washington has been fired by one of her radio producers....
760 2011-10-20 (Reuters) - Hackers who infiltrated the Nasdaq’s computer systems last year installed malicious software that allowed them to spy on the directors of publicly held companies, according to two people familiar with an investigation into the matter.

The new details showed the cyber attack was more serious than previously thought, as Nasdaq OMX Group had said in February that there was no evidence the hackers accessed customer information.

It was not known what information the hackers might have stolen. The investigation into the attack, involving the FBI and National Security Agency, is ongoing.

“God knows exactly what they have done. The long term impact of such attack is still unknown,” said Tom Kellermann, a well-known cyber security expert with years of experience protecting central banks and other high-profile financial institutions from attack.

The case is an example of a “blended attack,” where elite hackers infiltrate one target to facilitate access to another. In March hackers stole digital security keys from EMC Corp’s RSA Security division that they later used to breach the networks of defense contractor Lockheed Martin Corp.

Nasdaq had previously said that its trading platforms were not compromised by the hackers, but they attacked a Web-based software program called Directors Desk, used by corporate boards to share documents and communicate with executives, among other things.

By infecting Directors Desk, the hackers were able to access confidential documents and the communications of board directors, said Kellermann, chief technology officer at security technology firm AirPatrol Corp.

Investigators have learned that hackers were able to spy on “scores” of directors who logged onto directorsdesk.com before the malicious software was removed, said Kellermann and another person familiar with the investigation who was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly.

It was still unclear how long Nasdaq’s system was breached before the attack was discovered last October.

A Nasdaq spokesman confirmed the investigation into the attack continues, but declined to give further details.

Executive Assistant FBI Director Shawn Henry said the financial services sector was losing hundreds of millions of dollars to hackers every year, and the attacks were increasingly “destructive” in nature.

“We know adversaries have full unfettered access to certain networks. Once there they have the ability to destroy data,” he told Reuters in a phone interview. “We see that as a credible threat to all sectors, but specifically the financial services sector.” Henry declined to comment on the Nasdaq attack.

U.S. Army General Keith Alexander, head of the National Security Agency and U.S. Cyber Command, said the NSA was working with Nasdaq to help protect its network against further attacks.

Alexander told security experts at a Baltimore conference that the United States was shoring up its defenses, but still had “tremendous vulnerabilities” to a growing number of increasingly destructive electronic attacks.

“Nation states, non-nation state actors and hacker groups are creating tools that are increasingly more persistent and threatening, and we have to be ready for that,” he said.

Amid a spate of high-profile cyber crimes, the Obama administration wants Congress to pass comprehensive cyber-security legislation that would increase the government’s ability to thwart the growing threat.

Alexander and other top officials held a classified meeting with lawmakers on Wednesday and Thursday to discuss the issue, according to sources familiar with the meeting.

Nasdaq CEO Robert Greifeld said in July that the exchange is under constant attack, requiring it to spend nearly a billion dollars a year on information security.

“As we sit here, there are people trying to slam into our system every day,” Greifeld said in the interview. “So we have to be ever vigilant against an ever-changing foe.”
761 2011-10-20 (Reuters) - Hackers who infiltrated the Nasdaq’s computer systems last year installed malicious software that allowed them to spy on the directors of publicly held companies, according to two people familiar with an investigation into the matter.

The new details showed the cyber attack was more serious than previously thought, as Nasdaq OMX Group had said in February that there was no evidence the hackers accessed customer information.

It was not known what information the hackers might have stolen. The investigation into the attack, involving the FBI and National Security Agency, is ongoing.

“God knows exactly what they have done. The long term impact of such attack is still unknown,” said Tom Kellermann, a well-known cyber security expert with years of experience protecting central banks and other high-profile financial institutions from attack.

The case is an example of a “blended attack,” where elite hackers infiltrate one target to facilitate access to another. In March hackers stole digital security keys from EMC Corp’s RSA Security division that they later used to breach the networks of defense contractor Lockheed Martin Corp.

Nasdaq had previously said that its trading platforms were not compromised by the hackers, but they attacked a Web-based software program called Directors Desk, used by corporate boards to share documents and communicate with executives, among other things.

By infecting Directors Desk, the hackers were able to access confidential documents and the communications of board directors, said Kellermann, chief technology officer at security technology firm AirPatrol Corp.

Investigators have learned that hackers were able to spy on “scores” of directors who logged onto directorsdesk.com before the malicious software was removed, said Kellermann and another person familiar with the investigation who was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly.

It was still unclear how long Nasdaq’s system was breached before the attack was discovered last October.

A Nasdaq spokesman confirmed the investigation into the attack continues, but declined to give further details.

Executive Assistant FBI Director Shawn Henry said the financial services sector was losing hundreds of millions of dollars to hackers every year, and the attacks were increasingly “destructive” in nature.

“We know adversaries have full unfettered access to certain networks. Once there they have the ability to destroy data,” he told Reuters in a phone interview. “We see that as a credible threat to all sectors, but specifically the financial services sector.” Henry declined to comment on the Nasdaq attack.

U.S. Army General Keith Alexander, head of the National Security Agency and U.S. Cyber Command, said the NSA was working with Nasdaq to help protect its network against further attacks.

Alexander told security experts at a Baltimore conference that the United States was shoring up its defenses, but still had “tremendous vulnerabilities” to a growing number of increasingly destructive electronic attacks.

“Nation states, non-nation state actors and hacker groups are creating tools that are increasingly more persistent and threatening, and we have to be ready for that,” he said.

Amid a spate of high-profile cyber crimes, the Obama administration wants Congress to pass comprehensive cyber-security legislation that would increase the government’s ability to thwart the growing threat.

Alexander and other top officials held a classified meeting with lawmakers on Wednesday and Thursday to discuss the issue, according to sources familiar with the meeting.

Nasdaq CEO Robert Greifeld said in July that the exchange is under constant attack, requiring it to spend nearly a billion dollars a year on information security.

“As we sit here, there are people trying to slam into our system every day,” Greifeld said in the interview. “So we have to be ever vigilant against an ever-changing foe.”
762 2011-10-20 The killing of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi resonates in the presidential race....
763 2011-10-20 The killing of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi resonates in the presidential race....
764 2011-10-20 The demise of Friendly's evokes childhood memories for the author....
765 2011-10-20 The demise of Friendly's evokes childhood memories for the author....
766 2011-10-20 Displayed as a concept at the Frankfurt auto show last month, the S.U.V., based on the FX50, would be produced in low volume, Infiniti's parent, Nissan, announced....
767 2011-10-20 Displayed as a concept at the Frankfurt auto show last month, the S.U.V., based on the FX50, would be produced in low volume, Infiniti's parent, Nissan, announced....
768 2011-10-20 Blackstone's loss was driven by markdowns in the value of the firm's private equity and real estate holdings, as the firm battled a tough environment for investing....
769 2011-10-20 Blackstone's loss was driven by markdowns in the value of the firm's private equity and real estate holdings, as the firm battled a tough environment for investing....
770 2011-10-20 Two philanthropic groups will join forces to help stars verify the records of people who want to hire them....
771 2011-10-20 Two philanthropic groups will join forces to help stars verify the records of people who want to hire them....
772 2011-10-20 Why is Lytro willing to miss the holiday shopping season with its hot camera?...
773 2011-10-20 Why is Lytro willing to miss the holiday shopping season with its hot camera?...
774 2011-10-20 “What they are trying to do has never been done before,” Christopher Wheeler, an analyst at Mediobanca, said. “They want to shrink the investment bank by choice, which means unwinding positions without loss and running down their books while keeping the morale among staff, and it’s unclear who’s running the shop.”

The sudden shift of UBS, long one of Europe’s major investment banks, is driven by a disappointing performance but also by demands from Swiss regulators and politicians to abandon riskier practices like proprietary trading and to buttress their operations with more capital.

Switzerland, which is not part of the European Union, already has stricter capital rules than the rest of the region, but European leaders are considering forcing banks to hold more reserves to cushion them in a crisis. UBS officials say they hope that their urgency to restructure could give it a head start against rivals like Deutsche Bank.

UBS is expected to reveal the investment banking plans to investors at the Waldorf-Astoria in New York on Nov. 17, but some analysts said the bank might present some details on Tuesday;, when it releases its third-quarter earnings figures.

The question is whether UBS can shrink the investment banking business enough to satisfy investors and Swiss regulators without disrupting its other operations, losing lucrative clients or costing too much. With a smaller investment bank, UBS expects earnings growth to come from attracting high-net-worth clients with services and products created by linking investment banking and wealth management closer together, especially in Asia. For example, UBS would help a family-owned business in Hong Kong sell shares on the stock market and then offer advice on how to manage the proceeds.

"The increasingly close relationship we enjoy with wealth management allows its clients to more actively benefit from the full capabilities the investment bank offers,” Mr. Kengeter said in an interview this month. “In today’s market and regulatory environment, that proposition has never been more compelling."

Much is at stake for UBS, whose investors are slowly running out of patience after watching the bank stumble from one credibility crisis into another, forcing three chief executives out the door in five years.

UBS is not alone among banks seeking to scale back their investment banking business at a time of declining trading revenue and stricter capital requirements. Goldman Sachs and Bank of America are also cutting thousands of jobs. But unlike them, UBS missed out on a fixed-income trading boom in 2009 that generated big profits on Wall Street because it was still repairing its troubled credit operation.

UBS’s wealth management had its own difficulties when it admitted last year that it had helped thousands of American clients to evade taxes. But the bank was able to stem a net outflow of money while its investment banking performance continued to disappoint.

The arrest in September of Kweku M. Adoboli, the London trader facing charges of fraud and false accounting after UBS uncovered a large trading loss, renewed calls by some Swiss politicians for UBS to abandon investment banking altogether.

Susanne Leutenegger Oberholzer, a lawmaker from Switzerland’s Social Democratic Party, said “everything that has some risk has to go.” She might be a minority voice among politicians but the public sentiment against Switzerland’s big banks is growing.

“In Switzerland, we’ve had it so bad with the big banks,” she said. “People are just fed up.”

Shares in UBS, which fell 32 percent this year, are widely held by Swiss retail investors and the bank’s total assets are about three times Switzerland’s gross domestic product. UBS’s net profit fell 33 percent to 2.8 billion Swiss francs, or $3.1 billion, in the first half of this year as earnings at the investment bank more than halved. Most of the money the bank makes comes from wealth and asset management, with investment banking generating about 31 percent of earnings. Yet, the investment banking operation incurs the biggest costs.

UBS repeatedly said it would hold on to its investment banking business and would not sell its United States retail brokerage business, the former PaineWebber, despite persistent rumors that Wells Fargo would buy it. With renewed urgency after the rogue trading scandal, Mr. Kengeter, based in London, and Mr. Zeltner, based in Zurich, continued to analyze every asset class and service offered by the investment banking unit to determine which areas should be scaled back and which abandoned. The two 44-year-old executives hold daily calls and often invite each other to present at their units’ committee meetings.

Any area that is unnecessary for the wealth management operation, has a low income but high costs and in which UBS does not rank among the top players is likely to be abandoned, said a senior executive with direct knowledge of the plan, who declined to be named because the plan was not final.

As a result, UBS might keep the currency and equity business, where it is relatively successful, and hold on to research, which is considered essential for the wealth management business. Parts of its credit business, including asset-backed corporate lending, which require a larger part of the bank’s capital, and commodities, where UBS is an also-ran, are likely to be scaled down.

In London and New York, investment bankers watch the developments with a growing fear of being reduced to a support function for private bankers.

“Suddenly investment banking drifted to become a difficult stepchild and noncore,” said one UBS banker, who declined to be named because he was not authorized to speak about his employer. “Nobody in management would admit that, but actions speak louder than words.”

While the investment banking unit shed thousands of jobs, the wealth management operation added 300 advisers in the Asia-Pacific region since the start of the year. There are compulsory training courses for investment bankers and wealth advisers about how to work closer together and in March, Alexander S. Friedman, the former chief financial officer of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, joined in the new role of chief investment officer for the wealth management business.

UBS is convinced that in a world where banks’ profitability is curbed by strict capital rules and falling risk appetite by clients, its large wealth management business is a big competitive advantage.

But even some wealth managers feel less enthusiastic. The wealth management unit is unlikely to attract the levels of net new money it wants until investigations into UBS’s rogue trading scandal are completed, said one wealth manager, who declined to be named because he was not authorized to speak to reporters. “Clients say, ‘It’s nothing personal; I just don’t feel comfortable having my money with you at the moment,’ ” he said.

Beyond the hope that the planned revamp would create a more profitable and stronger UBS, there is a desire to move on from the recent turbulent times. “People just want peace and quiet to return to the Swiss banking world,” said Mrs. Leutenegger Oberholzer. And Mr. Kengeter wrote in a memo to staff earlier this month that he would do whatever it takes “to restore the reputation that we have worked so hard to build over the last two years.”
775 2011-10-20 Security workers are protesting staff cuts....
776 2011-10-20 Security workers are protesting staff cuts....
777 2011-10-20 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
778 2011-10-20 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
779 2011-10-20 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
780 2011-10-20 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
781 2011-10-20 The Times's Supreme Court correspondent reflects on the latest chapter in the debate on the constitutionality of affirmative action in college admissions....
782 2011-10-20 The Times's Supreme Court correspondent reflects on the latest chapter in the debate on the constitutionality of affirmative action in college admissions....
783 2011-10-20 Use the photo and related article to answer basic news questions.
784 2011-10-20 Use the photo and related article to answer basic news questions.
785 2011-10-20 The warning by the State of Washington’s economist was unusually blunt, a far cry from the kind of dry, green-eyeshade language that often cloaks such announcements: “We are in the fragile aftermath of the Great Recession, where a return to normalcy seems like a mirage in the desert — the closer we get to it, the further it moves away.”

The upshot: Washington’s weaker-than-expected tax collections have led the state to project that it will take in $2 billion less than it expected when its two-year budget took effect in July. Gov. Christine Gregoire, a Democrat, called a special legislative session for next month so the state, which has cut $10 billion in spending since the recession began, can weigh more cuts.

Other large states face similar problems, a clear sign that they are still not out of the woods several years after the housing bubble burst, the recession began and many states made big spending cuts. Florida, California, New York and New Jersey have all seen their tax collections come in below expectations in recent months as the nation has continued to struggle with high joblessness, a weak housing market, a sliding stock market and worries about the European debt crisis. The states are collecting more in taxes than last year, but not as much as they did before the recession began, and not as much as they expected when they drew up their budgets last spring.

State budget experts note that the fiscal year began in most states on July 1, and some remain hopeful that the economy will improve enough over the coming months that more rounds of cuts or tax increases will not be needed. Some states are seeing surpluses. But when budget analysts met last weekend near Washington, D.C., at a meeting of the National Association of State Budget Officers, many spoke of the uncertainty, said Scott D. Pattison, the group’s executive director.

“They are cautiously optimistic that we’ll miss a double-dip recession,” he said, “and sort of hobble through the fiscal year.”

California, which has collected $654 million less than it expected so far this year, could be forced to make a series of automatic cuts if tax collections do not pick up; a shortfall of more than $1 billion will set off $600 million in cuts, largely to education.
786 2011-10-20 More generally, bankers are concerned because many leases allow drillers to operate in ways that violate rules in landowners’ mortgages. These rules also require homeowners to get permission from their mortgage banker before they sign a lease — a fact that most landowners do not know.

Last year, Jack and Carol Pyhtila spent several weeks working to refinance the mortgage on their roughly 30 acres in Tompkins County, N.Y. But when they arrived to sign the mortgage, the lender, Visions Federal Credit Union, had taken a closer look at the lease on their land and revoked its offer, said Mr. Pyhtila, 72.

“They told us there was not enough information yet to know how the lease would affect the property value and they were not sure if it followed the mortgage rules,” he said. Another bank agreed to refinance their loan several months later.

Lenders predict that the conflicts between leases and mortgage rules are not likely to cause foreclosures, nor have they resulted in broad litigation or legislation. But many of the leases do constitute “technical defaults” on the mortgages, lenders say, and will likely result in new rules from local banks and additional hurdles to getting a home loan or refinancing a mortgage.

“When you decide to sell your house you may find it difficult to do so because many banks, here and elsewhere, will not mortgage properties with gas leases, which, in turn, limits the number of buyers willing and able to buy your property,” wrote Linda Hirvonen, an agent in , N.Y., in a newsletter last month.

Banks establish rules for how mortgaged properties can be used, to help ensure that they will hold their value. Banks also need to guarantee that their mortgages meet certain standards so that they can sell them to institutions like and , which bundle and sell these mortgages to investors.

“In terms of litigation, there is a real potential for a domino effect here if lenders at each step of the way made guarantees that are invalid,” said Greg May, vice president of residential mortgage lending at Tompkins Trust Company, headquartered in Ithaca.

Banks resell more than 90 percent of new residential mortgages in the to institutions like Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae. It is not clear how many mortgages held by major secondary lenders or investors have or gas leases on them that do not comply with mortgage rules.

But if even a small percentage do, tens of billions of dollars in mortgages might be affected, raising new concerns for an industry that has suffered in recent years from home loans that proved much riskier than expected.

Some lawyers who specialize in oil and gas leases said they were not worried.

“The leases have not created any practical conflict or issue with mortgages,” said Adam J. Schultz, a lawyer in , adding that there are thousands of gas leases on mortgaged properties in New York and Pennsylvania and that state environmental regulations helped protect property values.

Most of the bankers and mortgage experts interviewed also emphasized that they were not opposed to expanded drilling. The surge in such drilling has created thousands of jobs, bolstered American energy supplies and turned some landowners into millionaires, they said.

However, the banking industry is only starting to appreciate the complexity and possible consequences, they added.

“It’s truly Pandora’s box,” said Cosimo Manzo, a vice president of First , a mortgage services company in , during a presentation to Pennsylvania lenders posted online in July by a state credit union association. He also compared getting leases to comply with mortgage rules to solving a Rubik’s Cube.

If local banks do not require that leases comport with mortgage rules, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac may stop buying mortgages from these banks, Mr. Manzo said. Other experts warned that the two institutions, or investors who bought mortgage-backed securities, may also force local lenders to buy back noncompliant mortgages.

Real estate experts said the chances for conflicts between leases and mortgages were growing as drilling increased in more populated areas. The issue has garnered the most attention among lawmakers and lenders in New York, partly because the state’s rules for how close to homes drilling may be undertaken are more lax than in some Western states where there has been drilling for years.

Lawmakers have started asking more questions about the interplay of leases and mortgages.

In September, after asked them about the issue, two Democratic congressmen, of and of New York, asked Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac how they intended to rectify any breaches of their standards caused by drilling leases. State legislators from New York, and have also sent letters to regulators seeking more information.

In October, Mr. May published a report after a Tompkins County legislator, Carol Chock, asked him to look into the issue. The report described various conflicts between leases and mortgages over such things as minimum distances between gas wells and homes and the construction of wastewater ponds.

Mr. May said the issue was causing “a high level of concern for prudent banks and lenders.” He and other bankers have also questioned how the growing grid of buried pipelines that carry natural gas from wells to consumers will comply with mortgage rules. A separate report from the Congressional Research Service, the research arm of Congress, said signing a drilling lease without prior approval on a property with a mortgage owned or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac “generally will be considered an act of default under the mortgage.”

That could give either of the federally run companies the right to demand immediate payment of the full loan and even foreclose on the property if the owner cannot pay, the report said.

Representatives for Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae and the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, declined to comment.

Other officials at Fannie Mae, who were not authorized to speak to reporters, said it was unclear how many mortgaged properties with noncompliant leases Fannie Mae owned or had unwittingly sold to investors. Since drilling leases are frequently on farms and Farmer Mac, which purchases farm, ranch and rural homeowner mortgages, has many of the same rules as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, potential conflicts between mortgages and leases exist there, too.

A spokesman for Farmer Mac said he did not believe leases posed a significant financial risk.

Some bankers have emphasized that the conflicts between mortgages and leases can be resolved. But that first requires more guidance from Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and other secondary lenders about what types of appraisals and title are appropriate for mortgaged properties with leases, and whether the risks and values of these properties need to be reassessed, said Bill Crane, a senior vice president of CFCU Community Credit Union in Ithaca.

Other lenders said they needed mortgage rules relating to leased properties to be followed uniformly so that bankers who enforced these higher hurdles were not left at a competitive disadvantage.

In New York, these lenders added, regulators need to change regulations to require a larger buffer zone between homes and wells so that drilling complies with mortgage rules.

“New York needs the drilling jobs,” said Ralph Kelsey, a senior vice president of Tioga State Bank in Tioga County, N.Y. “We also need a lot more answers to these questions.”

Last year, Mr. Kelsey gave a presentation warning that since intensive drilling is relatively new in New York and Pennsylvania, there is a lack of historical data about how drilling affects property values, which in turn raises questions about whether appraisals will meet mortgage guidelines.

Data is scarce on how often landowners or drilling companies are getting written permission from lenders before putting leases on mortgaged properties. Most mortgage experts said the requests were rare.

receives roughly 100 requests per month nationwide, a company spokesman said. Fewer than a dozen such requests are sent directly to Fannie Mae each year, according to Fannie Mae officials.

, Bank of America, , , , Mortgage and the Mortgage Bankers Association declined to comment beyond saying they decided mortgages case by case and noting that the landowner or the gas company is responsible for ensuring leases do not violate mortgages.

In private e-mails, some lenders said drilling leases could create problems for getting a mortgage.

It is “very difficult to obtain financing due to the potential hazard” as well as “unknowns,” an official at Wells Fargo wrote to a mortgage broker in northeastern Pennsylvania in April 2010.

Drilling officials offered a different view. They said that the income from lease bonuses and gas royalties actually enhanced property values, and that mortgage lenders welcomed gas drilling because it provided borrowers with extra income that could be used to pay off their mortgages.

New York environmental regulators recently published a report indicating that property values go up regionally with an influx of drilling jobs. But the report also said research showed the value of properties closest to drilling would likely decrease.

, a major natural gas producer, does not seek approval from lenders before finalizing leases on mortgaged properties but asks permission later for properties where wells will be drilled and withholds royalties until consent is obtained, said Jim Gipson, a company spokesman.

However, lenders warned that mortgage rules required approvals from lenders before drilling leases were signed. They also noted that such approvals were required on all leases, not just those where wells are drilled.

Landowners said they were unaware of the rules set by their mortgages.

“It never even dawned on me to talk to the bank before I signed my lease,” said Marie McRae, 67, who raises horses in Freeville, N.Y., outside Ithaca. She leased 13 acres of her farm in 2008, but came to regret her decision and has publicly criticized drilling.

Asked by The Times to review the mortgage regulations and a collection of leases, Shaun Goho, a lecturer in the Emmett Environmental Law and Policy Clinic at Law School and co-author of a guide to natural gas leasing,  said he was alarmed by various potential conflicts between leases and mortgages. He added that the clinic planned to revise the guide this fall to include a discussion of these conflicts.

Officials from , the largest natural gas producer in the United States, and America’s Natural Gas Alliance, a trade association, declined to comment.

This is not the first time that questions have been raised about whether mortgages comply with standards set by major lenders.

The assembly-line way that mortgages are sold and resold makes it difficult to track liability and risk and to ensure that guidelines are being followed, said Eric Forster, a real estate and mortgage expert who is the managing principal in Forster Realty Advisors of , which often consults on real estate litigation.

“The subprime mortgage mess was the first symptom of this larger problem,” he said. “And these leasing issues represent a second symptom.”
787 2011-10-20 Devils goaltender Martin Brodeur will miss 7 to 10 days with an injured right shoulder. Brodeur was hurt last Thursday making a save against the Los Angeles Kings.

¶Phil Kessel had a goal and two assists to help the host Toronto Maple Leafs rally for a 4-3 shootout victory over the Winnipeg Jets. Kessel extended his N.H.L. lead in goals and points. He has 7 goals and 12 points.
788 2011-10-20 The top two leaders of Tibet’s government-in-exile publicly prayed on Wednesday for the nine Tibetans who have immolated themselves over the past seven months to protest China’s Tibet policies, provoking an angry response from Beijing, where a government spokeswoman called the prayers a promotion of terrorism.

The prayers were led by the Dalai Lama, Tibet’s spiritual leader, and Lobsang Sangay, the recently elected prime minister of the government-in-exile, which is in Dharamsala, India. The action was their most prominent display of solidarity yet for the nine Tibetans, all from a restive Tibetan area of Sichuan province in western China. Five of them died, according to Tibetan advocacy groups, including a nun, the only woman among the group, who set herself on fire on Monday. The others were monks or former monks.

The Web site of the Dalai Lama, a 76-year-old Nobel laureate, showed photographs of him and hundreds of robed monks praying at his Tsuglakhang Temple in Dharamsala for “those who have died and others who have been injured” in the immolations, a relatively new form of protest among Tibetans who have resisted China’s sovereignty over the former Himalayan kingdom.

Mr. Sangay was quoted by news agencies as saying at the ceremony that “we pay homage to their courage and stand in solidarity with their indomitable spirit.”

China considers the Dalai Lama a subversive threat to its control of Tibet, which the Chinese occupied in the 1950s forcing him into exile, and it bans acts of homage to him in Tibet and adjoining areas of China populated by ethnic Tibetans. The Dalai Lama has said he wants autonomy rather than full independence for Tibet and opposes what he calls China’s harsh repression of Tibetan religion and culture.

China’s state-run press has barely mentioned the self-immolations, which the Dalai Lama himself has previously said are in conflict with Buddhist precepts on the sanctity of life. But China’s Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, Jiang Yu, denounced both the self-immolations and the solidarity prayers for them during a regular press briefing in Beijing. “As we know, such splittist activity at the cost of human life is violence and terrorism in disguise,” she told reporters.
789 2011-10-20 But this week, the bus’s practices gained widespread publicity after The New York World, a Columbia Journalism School publication, reported that a female rider was told by other riders that she had to leave the front. The story was quickly picked up by bloggers and even came to the attention of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.

Speaking at a news conference on Wednesday, the mayor said that segregating men and women was “obviously not permitted” on public buses. “Private people: you can have a private bus,” he added. “Go rent a bus, and do what you want on it.”

Even though a private operator runs the bus, it was awarded the route through a public and competitive bidding process. Seth Solomonow, a spokesman for the Transportation Department, said the bus was supposed to be “available for public use” and could not discriminate.

Anne Koenig, head of the department’s franchise division, sent a letter on Wednesday to Jacob Marmurstein, the bus company’s president, asking him to provide any complaints filed about its practices and to show what the company was doing to prevent discriminatory practices. Ms. Koenig gave the company one week to respond. Mr. Marmurstein could not be reached for comment.

On Wednesday afternoon, the custom of women’s sitting at the back of the bus was evident, both in practice and in writing.

Guidelines, posted in the front and the back, said that “when boarding a crowded bus with standing passengers in the front, women should board the back door after paying the driver in the front” and that “when the bus is crowded, passengers should stand in their designated areas.”

The women riding in the back included several full-time mothers and an accountant who commutes into Manhattan each day. One woman who would identify herself only by her initials, M. M., said other buses that cater to the Hasidic community sometimes separate men and women by having one sex sit on the left and the other on the right. She said women could not sit in the front and men sit in the back because “they’re not allowed to see the women.” But she acknowledged that the B110 bus was not just for members of the Hasidic community and other Orthodox Jews.

“Everyone takes the bus; it’s not a strict thing,” she said. “Usually it’s full of people from the community. But it’s not always.”

A male photographer found it difficult to visit the back of the bus, filled with Hasidic riders loaded down with packages and the scent of freshly baked bread before the Jewish holiday Shemini Atzeret. The bus driver told him that only women were allowed there.

While no male passengers sitting at the front of the bus explicitly told a female reporter to move, several riders said women did not belong there. One father who sat in the front with his son and daughter and declined to give his name said men and women “need to be separated.” He looked down at his daughter dressed in a bright red raincoat, with her blue eyes frozen in amazement, and said: “She’s small. When she’s big, she will sit in the back.”

Even if the buses allow women to sit in the front, it may take longer for male riders to feel comfortable. As Asaf Amitay, a 35-year-old regular rider on the bus, rode home to Borough Park, he made it clear that he did not believe that women should be seated in the front.

“I don’t like it,” he said. “The women is in the back. The men are in the front.”
790 2011-10-20 So far, Sanchez has thrown eight deep passes — of at least 20 yards — to Burress, completing three, according to the Web site ProFootballFocus.com. In the red zone, Burress has caught one touchdown pass, Sept. 25 at Oakland, while also contributing as a superb blocker.

Burress said he was growing more comfortable with Sanchez, with the Jets’ offense; no longer does he break from the huddle and jog the wrong way. They are trying to compensate for time missed during training camp and the lockout, and each has acknowledged his culpability.

Burress has three drops, all in the last two games, which he attributed to being “so confident doing what you do that you get a little lazy” focusing on the ball and watching it hit his hands. Coach Rex Ryan said Sanchez had looked away from Burress too early, including on the first play of Monday’s game, when he misfired to Shonn Greene. Sanchez struggles with his accuracy to begin with, so the lack of repetitions compounded the impact.

“You’ve got to throw those routes hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of times to where you can almost throw them with your eyes closed,” Sanchez said. “And then, you just react to what’s going on around you.”

Every day, he said, they work on routes, on timing, on learning each other’s tendencies. Burress said he was competitive, not frustrated. Sanchez said he could not blame Burress if he did feel frustrated, praising his positive attitude. Sanchez called Burress “a different car” in his garage of receivers. “They have a different feel,” Sanchez said. “They handle a little different.”

But if Holmes and Jeremy Kerley, the speedsters, drive like Corvettes, then what type of car fits Burress, whom Sanchez called “a big, rangy guy”? An Escalade? A minivan? And does it even matter if the car will not start?

Much has changed for Burress over the last six years — the prison stay, for starters — and he sometimes appears to have trouble gaining separation from cornerbacks, unable to stretch opposing defenses as he once did. The Jets have tried. Of the 34 passes directed his way, 16 were thrown to the middle of the field, according to ProFootballFocus, countering the theory that Burress is deployed mostly down the sidelines. Ryan also said that teams had used deceptive schemes to double-cover Burress at times.

“If the coverage is a certain way,” Ryan said, “then the ball should be thrown somewhere else.”

The four times Sanchez did throw toward Burress on Monday night revealed the scope of their disconnect. The first, which did not come until 5 minutes 17 seconds remained in the third quarter, sailed high in the end zone. The second, on a quick slant, was caught for 16 yards.

The next two evoked criticism from the “Monday Night Football” analysts Jon Gruden and Ron Jaworski. After Burress dropped a 15-yard pass, Gruden said Burress ran a “poor” route and needed to get out of his break better. After Sanchez overthrew Burress by about 10 yards on a deep pass down the sideline, Jaworski said it looked as if Burress was “loafing.”

Asked if he felt rusty, Burress said he did not. Asked if he felt he still ran as well as used to, Burress said he did. Which perhaps is why he hardly seemed worried about improving his timing with Sanchez, saying it does not form in the first six games. But, he was asked, did it develop within the first 16?

For perhaps the first time, Rex Ryan apologized for guaranteeing a Super Bowl title. Ryan told San Diego reporters that if he had been selected as the Chargers’ coach over Norv Turner in 2007, “I think I would have had a couple rings” because “those teams were loaded.” Ryan called Turner to clarify his remarks, saying he did not mean to offend him.
791 2011-10-20 The current crisis over the euro has deep roots in the imbalances between north and south, rich and poor, export-led and service-driven economies, tied together by a currency but few rules, and those are rarely enforced.

A fix will require fundamental changes in the functioning of the bloc, with more interference in the workings of sovereign states. There would need to be a fiscal union, with a treasury and a finance minister capable of intervening in national budgets, and more unified and pension policies. But it is far from clear that the European Union can gather itself to take these fateful steps away from nationalist identities to a truly European model.

“We are today confronted by the greatest challenge our union has known in its entire history,” said , the head of the . “It is a financial, economic and social crisis. But also a crisis of confidence — in our leadership, in Europe itself, in our capacity to find solutions.”

There are many who believe that the European Union and its leaders have already been found wanting, and that the European project that brought democracy and peace to the Continent may begin to unravel.

“This crisis is threatening the benefits of 60 years of European integration,” said Baverez, a French economist and historian. “All the principles on which the euro zone was built — no state default, no monetary transfers, no bailouts and strict limits on debt — all these principles are dead, and we have no rules to make this work.”

Worse, he said, political leaders underestimate the dangers. “This is not just another , but a real and fundamental crisis,” he said. “There is a tension in the political system and doubt about democratic institutions that we have not experienced since the fall of the Soviet Union.”

Built from the ruins of war and expanded generously in the euphoria after the Soviet collapse, the European Union heralded itself as a model, radiating “soft power.” But now the model looks tarnished and flawed.

Leaders seem diminished; local politics trump solidarity. There is a new nationalism degrading the collective responsibility and shared sovereignty that defines the European Union. Euro-skepticism runs from far-right parties that simultaneously detest immigrants, globalism and Brussels to the governing parties of Europe’s most successful countries.

A European Union of 15 nations seemed coherent and manageable; the Europe of 27, soon to be 28, is almost ungovernable, even by a professional bureaucracy with little connection to voters and whose decisions cause increasing resentment, summarized in the “democratic deficit” that the European Union suffers.

, for example, divided and in ruins after the war it fought to dominate Europe, is reunited and dominating Europe now, but without arms and with deep reluctance.

Nothing gets done in the European Union without German agreement, commitment and money. But in Chancellor , Germany has a leader who is reactive and uninspiring, while her coalition partners, the Free Democrats, are slumping into irrelevance. Her eye is on Germany’s internal politics, its loose federalism and coalition government, a major contrast to ’s centralized, nearly monarchical state.

France once dominated the European Union, but Paris has now fallen behind booming Germany, one reason that feared German reunification. Anxious about its own debt, and rating in the midst of a nasty presidential campaign, France is having a hard time dragging along.

At the same time, the countries of Eastern Europe are more vibrant economically than many of their western partners. They share much of the German, Dutch and Finnish view about strict fiscal discipline, and are reluctant to join a shaky euro and become responsible for the failures of others.

, always an outlier in the European Union, looks wise to reject the euro, and the mood now is probably more anti-European than even in the days of .

The fundamental changes needed to cope with the euro crisis — particularly the historic step of creating a common treasury — would require a redrawing of the basic treaties, which would require the approval of the voters.

But Europe is unpopular, a local metaphor for globalization, faceless and interfering. It is by no means certain that the voters are ready to leap into a new world of economic integration. Even if they prove to be, the new treaty will be complex and take years to draft even before being put to the electorate for ratification, if there is ratification.

It is easy to say that the answer is “more Europe,” not less. That can seem self-evident to Eurocrats and the political elite. But “more Europe” may not be what voters want.

“The only thing that can save the euro in its current form can’t and shouldn’t be done without democratic debate and support,” said Simon Tilford, chief economist for the Center for European Reform, a research institution.

“You need to bring the electorate with you,” he said. Of course, he acknowledged, a real democratic debate “could exacerbate the crisis.” That may be the largest historical irony of all.
792 2011-10-20 We believe that “Clamping Down on Rapid Trades in Stock Market” (front page, Oct. 9), about high-frequency trading, perpetuates misunderstandings about modern professional traders.

Overwhelming empirical evidence indicates that professional traders using automated trading strategies provide valuable liquidity to investors, improve price discovery and dampen volatility. As markets have become more competitive and automated, investors pay significantly lower transaction costs.

The article doesn’t mention what is driving volatility in the markets — anxiety over fundamentals like turmoil in Europe — and blames professional traders, who actually dampen it.

We take issue with the article’s description of how today’s professional traders interact with investors. They do not compete with retail or institutional investors; rather, they compete with one another to serve investors.

Anyone engaging in market manipulation or fraud should be held accountable. The enforcement actions mentioned in the article were not about traders “using computers to gain advantage over slower investors by illegally manipulating prices.” Rather, they involved manual day traders illegally targeting automated traders.

Professional traders consistently support steps aimed at improving the integrity and performance of our modern electronic markets. In these turbulent times, overlooking well-established information risks the creation of policies that would cost investors billions of dollars.
793 2011-10-20 Part travelogue, part pseudo-documentary self-portrait, part fable of Tinseltown disillusionment — and these are just the bad parts — “Glitch in the Grid” is so professionally ill-advised and personally unflattering that it’s almost painful to think about.

This release by the brothers Jeffrey and Eric Leiser (“Imagination”) is centered, or perhaps self-centered, on the nonevents of their own lives. (The eerily robotic Eric, a 2005 graduate of the CalArts Program in Experimental Animation, is the director; Jeffrey is the music and sound designer.) Not much happens, but the most basic shifts in time and place are so badly signposted, you’d be lost without a synopsis.

After a studio project falls through, the righteously angry Eric trawls through help-wanted ads on Craigslist while Jeffrey works nights at a veterinarian’s office. These humorless disciples of high art and the higher power of Jesus’ love soon decide to reach out to their spiritually adrift cousin, Jay, carefully documenting both his mid-20s malaise and their own martyrlike sacrifices to help him.

“Glitch” is best appreciated as a catalog of nonnarrative shorts dispersed across the narrative if not quite integrated into it. Designed and photographed with a handmade feel by Eric Leiser, these interludes freely mix stop-motion animation, puppetry and time-lapse photography. The technique is good, but the content is either standard-issue Christian symbolism (white doves, stigmata) or pure juvenilia (flowery fields, marionette theaters, colored lights and streamers).

There are lots of self-pitying references to the weak job market, but the evidence of real hardship is thin: peanut butter and jelly sandwiches! Google searches for “cheap” flights to Europe! The brothers are so intensely earnest in their professions of humility before God that it’s almost easy to miss how fatally self-absorbed and entitled they are. Eric Leiser calls “Glitch” a “destiny film,” a preordained part of God’s plan. But God, I think, would have planned it a little better.
794 2011-10-20 It’s “The Canterbury Tales” all over again and, as with Chaucer, the emphasis is on the stories, not on where the storytellers are headed or where they’ve come from. We open the door to our “sondry folk,” to hear their hilarious tales (“You’re damned right I’m suing him!”), to be puzzled, confounded, speechless ourselves. We thought the national news was bleak, but this! What can really be done to treat your mother’s projectile vomiting? Who can imagine why someone sprayed graffiti on your boat? You have no enemies. Understood. You are thinking of writing a book about this? And you can access your notes on your phone? What app is that? Oh, clever. You have just taken a picture of me. These are interactive pilgrims.

Of course, My Anecdote, c’est moi, but we hosts have questions: At what length does an anecdote cease to be an anecdote and become a problem, verbalized or implied? That is, at what point is my husband, Lincoln, supposed to come up with a solution, as men are said to think in terms of solving problems? And at what point does Ann, in the female way of showing solidarity, interrupt a visitor’s account of the colleague who showed up to work in a witch’s hat and glowered and wouldn’t speak to anyone, to say that she once also had a weird colleague? But the visitor’s story rushes on: the witch-woman jumped to her death. (Ah! I can interject here: once a student picked me up and was about to throw me out a window, when tackled by another student.) Now, even by non sequitur, how can I possibly find out if anyone is interested in some guac and chips?

A house is not inert. It lives by being visited, just as it lives by being lived in or, from the perspective of the mice, by being left during the winter. It also lives by its sounds: The Rolling Stones, piercing the afternoon; a rogue skateboarder zooming by on the street outside; the frenzied questions of the guy from animal control (an entire family of flying squirrels in the eaves); the excruciating noise of the lawn edger. And on the more personal level, the sounds of the visitors: the women who speak of Michelangelo, especially if there has recently been a gallery show; the cellphone conversations held not quite out of range (“Maine. No, Maine. Maine. It’s near Canada!”); the entre nous account of the grilled-cheese sandwich that X’s husband insisted on driving 20 miles out of the way for, and it was mushy.

Are there stories beneath the stories? Of course. Have I lost my sense of humor? Not exactly, but I’m glad I get to play the role of narrator in these We Live in Maine Latter-day Canterbury Tales. (“Lincoln, if The Wife doesn’t bring up her fifth marriage, please don’t ask a direct question.”)

Yet what, exactly, is expected of me? While my also-hosting husband plays an animated, badly dressed, barefoot Charlie Rose, inclining forward every now and then over the guacamole (I managed to serve it!) to ask a question, I realize that these dazzling stories are not happenstance any more than Chaucer took a random sampling. If these are the people I’ve chosen, then their stories are, too.

This is the mode of social intercourse for visiting in our time: not to reassure, or to speak mildly, but to give voice to the outrageous, the never to be sorted out. The hosts will hear tales told by an incredulous speaker who has no canned ending in mind (and who can return next year with new stories, unlike Chaucer’s characters, who had one run-through). They, too, exist as part of the story, not merely for their story. The stories are psychological portraits, and how the tellers are perceived can be quite different from the way they conceive of themselves. Yes, we’re pretty inured to hearing about someone’s marriage No. 5, but in the case of our own stand-in for that dandy, the Wife of Bath, we listen and think how sad it is that when true love is finally found, it has resulted in a violent relationship.

A commodious home, well located, is even more inviting to guests if it’s not your only dwelling, if you, like a pilgrim yourself, come to the house once a year and are simultaneously living there and on the lam. That is the case with us: we are both on vacation in the lovely state of Maine, yet not (it’s the only place I have a private room to write in; it’s my husband’s only studio). But the hand-painted sign on the back porch does say, “Welcome to Camp,” and our visitors recognize us as similar spirits. Surely our days together will not feature high seriousness. That’s for the rest of the year. The time when we’re all Not Here. (I am joyously and mordantly fond of Dan Mangan’s song that contains the refrain, “We’re not us anymore, we’re not us.” And what a guitar break.)

Amid the colorful fall leaves, under the starry sky, the visitors are the cautionary tales of what it is to live in one place, to live and work in the same ZIP code, and then to unpack their anxiety along with their clothes, to unpack it to high hilarity, while seated in a rocking chair and where the presiding deities are glowing plastic pigs. Every visit marks the end of something and points toward a new beginning. This applies equally to travelers, and to those who greet them on their journey. The company shakes us up, that’s for sure.

But we are here to receive. Sans mutton chop, for the vegetarians.
795 2011-10-20 Sometimes the exertion is a prelude to the more typical excess, or as a way of sweating it out the morning after. But often, it reflects shifting priorities among a new generation of brides.

“People are getting married a little bit older, and they know who they are more and that’s reflected in the bachelorette parties,” said Christi Masi, a personal trainer in Seattle who’s worked with hundreds of brides as “chief exercise officer” of the Healthy Bride boot camps.

Some women choose what Casey Fremont Crowe, a recent bride, called “the more productive” option, partly so as not to undo efforts to slim down before the wedding.

“When you’re trying to be really fit and lose weight, you really are thinking of it as every day counts, so why not make working out part of the celebration?” said Ms. Crowe, 27, whose May 21 party included a session at SoulCycle, the boutique stationary-cycling company, with locations in Manhattan, the Hamptons and Scarsdale, N.Y.

Ms. Crowe’s festivities also included massages, a scavenger hunt — and a boozy dinner. “Because of the class, none of us felt too bad about what we ate or drank,” she said. Still, she rose at dawn on her July 16 wedding day to attend one last 7 a.m. class at SoulCycle before slipping into her “unforgiving” silk sheath dress with chiffon overlay.

Caitlin Boyle, who as a bridesmaid helped plan her friend Nicole Saunders’s bachelorette party, said Ms. Saunders’s love of running even dictated the event’s date: Sept. 17, to coincide with a Charlotte, N.C., 10k race called Hit the Brixx.

“If we hadn’t been able to run, I’m sure we would’ve gone to a hot-yoga class to celebrate,” said Ms. Boyle, 27, who gave the runaway bride, 30, a veil and pink-and-purple puff-painted tank top to wear during the race. “I think it’s important to honor the bride and her interests.”

The bride and her training regime may call the shots, alcoholic or otherwise, at the party, but the friends usually are not complaining about the enforced workout.

“All of my friends love to work out and feel fit,” said Ms. Crowe, who regularly meets them at SoulCycle. Lara Kalayjian, who attended Ms. Luck’s party at Flywheel, is the one credited with (and sometimes blamed for) introducing the bride to the workout this summer. “It’s changed my life,” she said. “And it’s more fun with friends.”

“Often we will recognize two-thirds of the guests as regulars,” said Jay Galluzzo, the president of Flywheel, which has seven studios and had its first request from a bride within a month of its March 2010 opening in New York. (Included in the wedding-themed playlist the studio offers is Bruno Mars’s “Marry You,” Madonna’s “Like a Virgin” and the Proclaimers’ “Let’s Get Married.”)

Though men occupy 40 percent of the Flywheel bikes, it seems bridegrooms are less keen on virtuous last-night-of-freedom rites: The recently opened Chicago branch will host the company’s first bachelor party in November. Few of Emily Hamill’s friends had tried Core Fusion, when she requested it for her Santa Monica, Calif., bachelorette party. “But they said they’d do whatever I wanted, and it ended up being a great bonding experience,” said Ms. Hamill, 29, a Houston event planner.

“You tend to do the same things with your friends, and this gave us all a different perspective and something new to talk about.” An example: One friend, a newbie who managed to execute the moves with ease, revealed she practiced yoga every night.

“I’d known her for five years, and I never knew that,” Ms. Hamill said.

She paused. “And because I wasn’t drunk, I could actually remember it.”
796 2011-10-20 IN Charlyne Yi and Odette Annable as new doctors on House’s team.

The wackiest network series in prime time has gone all in on cast changes before, most notably in the Season 4 bake-off in which seven new actors were added and three remained as regulars. But the losses of Ms. Edelstein’s Cuddy and Ms. Wilde’s Thirteen (who made a valedictory appearance on this week’s episode) are major blows. They were two of the show’s most entertaining characters, and they both had complex, push-pull relationships with Hugh Laurie’s Dr. House. Also missing in the early going this season are Jesse Spencer (Chase) and the always funny Peter Jacobson (Taub), and Mr. Laurie has shown the strain of carrying the show by himself.

Neither Ms. Annable (the hot-doctor replacement for Ms. Wilde) nor Ms. Yi has made much of an impression through the season’s first three episodes, though Ms. Yi’s monotone, affectless performance has the virtue of being not quite like anything else on the broadcast networks; the closest match is probably the slightly catatonic daughter, Louise, on Fox’s animated “Bob’s Burgers.” This being “House,” though, nothing is forever. Chase and Taub are scheduled to rejoin the team on Nov. 7.

OUT Christopher Meloni, who for more than 270 episodes played Detective Elliott Stabler, one of the show’s two central performers from the beginning; he did not reach a contract agreement after Season 12.

IN Danny Pino and Kelli Giddish as new detectives.

Ms. Giddish and Mr. Pino aren’t bad, but they’ll never be a match for Mr. Meloni at his best. (Mr. Pino, in particular, feels a little lightweight in the intense surroundings of “SVU.”) Mr. Meloni hadn’t been at his best for a few seasons, however; the writers kept pounding out stories about Stabler’s suffocating anger and his portrayal froze in place. The show, under the new executive producer Warren Leight, has actually felt looser and more watchable this fall without Stabler around to suck up all the oxygen. But it hasn’t been that much more than routine, and there are a lot of detectives in the squad room now fighting for screen time. With the tenure of the show’s other founding star, Mariska Hargitay, in question, someone is going to have to step up and take charge. It’s not clear yet that there’s anyone around capable of pulling it off.

OUT Steve Carell , the show’s star, who chose to move on.

IN James Spader as the new chief executive of Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. (Also coming, the new child of Jenna Fischer’s Pam; Ms. Fischer, who gave birth on Sept. 24 in real life, was still pregnant on screen as of Episode 4 last week.)

The exchange here wasn’t one for one: Mr. Spader has joined the show as a supporting player while Mr. Carell’s position as regional manager, and as the centerpiece of the show, has for now been handed to the series regular Ed Helms. Speaking strictly in terms of who makes you laugh, it feels like a mistake to increase Mr. Helms’s screen time at the expense of, say, Rainn Wilson or Mindy Kaling. It’s also a big drop in crazy energy from Mr. Carell to Mr. Helms, whose Andy Bernard is a very different kind of character than Michael Scott was, as reflected in the fact that every episode this season, four out of four, has gone sentimental at the end.

OUT Charlie Sheen, the show’s star, after the most public flame-out in TV history.

IN Ashton Kutcher as a childish Internet billionaire who buys the house formerly owned by Mr. Sheen’s character.

It remains to be seen whether Mr. Sheen was right about the impact his departure would have on the show’s ratings, though the trend is striking: through the first five episodes of the season “Two and a Half Men” has dropped more than a million viewers each week. But there’s no doubt about the artistic effect. Jon Cryer and Conchata Ferrell are working as hard as they can, but Ashton Kutcher’s personality-free, painfully unfunny performance is exposing just how tired the writing is.
797 2011-10-20 LONDON — News International, Rupert Murdoch’s British newspaper company, knew the practice of phone hacking was widespread at the News of the World newspaper as early as 2008, a lawyer who acted for the company told lawmakers here Wednesday.

Julian Pike, a partner at the law firm Farrer and Co., said he knew the company’s claim that the practice was limited to one “rogue reporter,” was untrue but admitted that he “had not done very much,” with the information, as he was not obliged to reveal it. He insisted that he was “not party to any cover-up.”

The company eventually admitted to wider wrongdoing early this year, and shuttered the newspaper this summer amid a cascade of revelations. But the company was told in 2008 that three other journalists at the tabloid had been involved, Mr. Pike told a committee of lawmakers gathering evidence on a scandal that continues to pervade a wide swath of British life.

The committee will take evidence from Mr. Murdoch’s former chief lieutenant, Les Hinton, next Monday, and has said it will likely call Mr. Murdoch’s son James to give further evidence later this year. Both men face allegations, which they vehemently deny, that they were complicit in covering up phone hacking.
798 2011-10-20 “What they are trying to do has never been done before,” Christopher Wheeler, an analyst at Mediobanca, said. “They want to shrink the investment bank by choice, which means unwinding positions without loss and running down their books while keeping the morale among staff, and it’s unclear who’s running the shop.”

The sudden shift of UBS, long one of Europe’s major investment banks, is driven by a disappointing performance but also by demands from Swiss regulators and politicians to abandon riskier practices like proprietary trading and to buttress their operations with more capital.

Switzerland, which is not part of the European Union, already has stricter capital rules than the rest of the region, but European leaders are considering forcing banks to hold more reserves to cushion them in a crisis. UBS officials say they hope that their urgency to restructure could give it a head start against rivals like Deutsche Bank.

UBS is expected to reveal the investment banking plans to investors at the Waldorf-Astoria in New York on Nov. 17, but some analysts said the bank might present some details on Tuesday;, when it releases its third-quarter earnings figures.

The question is whether UBS can shrink the investment banking business enough to satisfy investors and Swiss regulators without disrupting its other operations, losing lucrative clients or costing too much. With a smaller investment bank, UBS expects earnings growth to come from attracting high-net-worth clients with services and products created by linking investment banking and wealth management closer together, especially in Asia. For example, UBS would help a family-owned business in Hong Kong sell shares on the stock market and then offer advice on how to manage the proceeds.

"The increasingly close relationship we enjoy with wealth management allows its clients to more actively benefit from the full capabilities the investment bank offers,” Mr. Kengeter said in an interview this month. “In today’s market and regulatory environment, that proposition has never been more compelling."

Much is at stake for UBS, whose investors are slowly running out of patience after watching the bank stumble from one credibility crisis into another, forcing three chief executives out the door in five years.

UBS is not alone among banks seeking to scale back their investment banking business at a time of declining trading revenue and stricter capital requirements. Goldman Sachs and Bank of America are also cutting thousands of jobs. But unlike them, UBS missed out on a fixed-income trading boom in 2009 that generated big profits on Wall Street because it was still repairing its troubled credit operation.

UBS’s wealth management had its own difficulties when it admitted last year that it had helped thousands of American clients to evade taxes. But the bank was able to stem a net outflow of money while its investment banking performance continued to disappoint.

The arrest in September of Kweku M. Adoboli, the London trader facing charges of fraud and false accounting after UBS uncovered a large trading loss, renewed calls by some Swiss politicians for UBS to abandon investment banking altogether.

Susanne Leutenegger Oberholzer, a lawmaker from Switzerland’s Social Democratic Party, said “everything that has some risk has to go.” She might be a minority voice among politicians but the public sentiment against Switzerland’s big banks is growing.

“In Switzerland, we’ve had it so bad with the big banks,” she said. “People are just fed up.”

Shares in UBS, which fell 32 percent this year, are widely held by Swiss retail investors and the bank’s total assets are about three times Switzerland’s gross domestic product. UBS’s net profit fell 33 percent to 2.8 billion Swiss francs, or $3.1 billion, in the first half of this year as earnings at the investment bank more than halved. Most of the money the bank makes comes from wealth and asset management, with investment banking generating about 31 percent of earnings. Yet, the investment banking operation incurs the biggest costs.

UBS repeatedly said it would hold on to its investment banking business and would not sell its United States retail brokerage business, the former PaineWebber, despite persistent rumors that Wells Fargo would buy it. With renewed urgency after the rogue trading scandal, Mr. Kengeter, based in London, and Mr. Zeltner, based in Zurich, continued to analyze every asset class and service offered by the investment banking unit to determine which areas should be scaled back and which abandoned. The two 44-year-old executives hold daily calls and often invite each other to present at their units’ committee meetings.

Any area that is unnecessary for the wealth management operation, has a low income but high costs and in which UBS does not rank among the top players is likely to be abandoned, said a senior executive with direct knowledge of the plan, who declined to be named because the plan was not final.

As a result, UBS might keep the currency and equity business, where it is relatively successful, and hold on to research, which is considered essential for the wealth management business. Parts of its credit business, including asset-backed corporate lending, which require a larger part of the bank’s capital, and commodities, where UBS is an also-ran, are likely to be scaled down.

In London and New York, investment bankers watch the developments with a growing fear of being reduced to a support function for private bankers.

“Suddenly investment banking drifted to become a difficult stepchild and noncore,” said one UBS banker, who declined to be named because he was not authorized to speak about his employer. “Nobody in management would admit that, but actions speak louder than words.”

While the investment banking unit shed thousands of jobs, the wealth management operation added 300 advisers in the Asia-Pacific region since the start of the year. There are compulsory training courses for investment bankers and wealth advisers about how to work closer together and in March, Alexander S. Friedman, the former chief financial officer of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, joined in the new role of chief investment officer for the wealth management business.

UBS is convinced that in a world where banks’ profitability is curbed by strict capital rules and falling risk appetite by clients, its large wealth management business is a big competitive advantage.

But even some wealth managers feel less enthusiastic. The wealth management unit is unlikely to attract the levels of net new money it wants until investigations into UBS’s rogue trading scandal are completed, said one wealth manager, who declined to be named because he was not authorized to speak to reporters. “Clients say, ‘It’s nothing personal; I just don’t feel comfortable having my money with you at the moment,’ ” he said.

Beyond the hope that the planned revamp would create a more profitable and stronger UBS, there is a desire to move on from the recent turbulent times. “People just want peace and quiet to return to the Swiss banking world,” said Mrs. Leutenegger Oberholzer. And Mr. Kengeter wrote in a memo to staff earlier this month that he would do whatever it takes “to restore the reputation that we have worked so hard to build over the last two years.”
799 2011-10-20 Describing the initiative as a “huge deal,” Mrs. Obama said 270 companies — including giants like Procter & Gamble and Tyson Foods, which supply goods to military commissaries and post exchanges on bases — had agreed to hire more veterans.

“It’s huge enough for you to even be involved,” she said drily, glancing back at a grinning Mr. Obama.

Afterward, Mrs. Obama hopped on the bus to accompany the president to a nearby farmers market in Hampton, where he played a mix of amused spectator and harried husband as he watched his wife hoist 10 pumpkins — including two giant white specimens weighing 70 pounds each — onto a metal cart.

“How many are you going to buy?” Mr. Obama asked. “You want anything else?” The first lady demurred, saying it would be challenging enough to fit the pumpkins on the bus.

Mrs. Obama’s presence livened up a tour that has had some good moments (the president’s rapturous welcome at a child-care center in Virginia) but also a few awkward ones, including an exchange in which a diner at a restaurant in North Carolina said he was a funeral director and Mr. Obama replied: “Fantastic! That’s important work.”

This was the president’s second bus tour — he tooled through Minnesota, Iowa and Illinois in August — and it was different in several ways that illustrate how much has changed for him since the grueling debt-ceiling impasse of the summer.

On the heels of that dismal experience, Mr. Obama had little to sell. In town-hall sessions dressed up with bales of hay or bags of seed corn, he mostly listened to people voice frustration with the gridlock in Washington and seconded their emotions.

Now, the president has a meaty, if politically divisive, bill that he is avidly selling. This week, the White House scrapped the town-hall format in favor of traditional campaign-style speeches, where Mr. Obama presented his proposals and assailed Republicans for blocking them.

Speaking to 2,400 troops at the base, Mr. Obama outlined the proposal to give companies a tax incentive to hire veterans. Unlike other parts of the jobs bill, that provision, which is also likely headed for a Senate vote as a separate measure, has won the support of Republicans.

“When I first proposed this idea to a joint session of Congress, people stood up and applauded on both sides of the aisle,” Mr. Obama said to noisy applause. “So when it comes for a vote in the Senate, I expect to get votes from both sides of the aisle.”

The itinerary was also different, and arguably more challenging. In August, Mr. Obama’s caravan rolled through Midwestern farming counties he won easily in 2008. This time, he ventured into Republican strongholds like Wilkes County in North Carolina, where Senator John McCain rolled up close to 70 percent of the vote.

Yet Mr. Obama was also politically opportunistic — nowhere more so than in Chesterfield County, a changing suburb of Richmond that Democrats view as ripe for gains.

“The suburbs are getting better and better for Democrats,” said Mike Henry, a Democratic strategist who is managing former Gov. Tim Kaine’s bid for a Senate seat. “Chesterfield County is really getting to be much more like northern Virginia,” where Mr. Obama piled up big numbers in 2008.
800 2011-10-20 WASHINGTON — The Obama administration, in a move that could open up more transcripts of historically significant grand jury testimony from many years ago, is proposing to change a rule that imposes strict and permanent secrecy requirements on such records.

In a letter to a committee of judges who shape the Federal Rules for Criminal Procedure, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. wrote that the rule making it a crime to disclose grand jury information should be amended to allow courts to lift the veil of secrecy from transcripts that are at least 30 years old if their disclosure would not affect any still-living witness or investigative target. Mr. Holder also proposed allowing all grand jury materials that are deemed historically significant and that are at least 75 years old to be made public through the National Archives, without any need for a court review.

While there are many good reasons to keep grand jury materials secret at the time, Mr. Holder wrote: “They do not forever trump all competing considerations. After a suitably long period, in cases of enduring historical importance, the need for continued secrecy is eventually outweighed by the public’s legitimate interest in preserving and accessing the documentary legacy of our government.”

Grand jury information in routine cases is eventually destroyed, but the Justice Department maintains archived copies of material in cases that are deemed historically significant. But while the rules governing most kinds of secret records — including classified national security documents — allow them to become public eventually, the rule governing grand jury transcripts, known as Rule 6(e), fixes no end point after which they may be disclosed to historians and the world at large.

Still, in recent years several district courts have granted requests by historians to make public a few transcripts of very old grand jury testimony, including the early cold war-era espionage cases against Alger Hiss and Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, a 1964 jury-tampering case against the labor union leader James R. Hoffa, and — most recently — the 1975 testimony by former President Richard M. Nixon in the Watergate case.
801 2011-10-20 The animals’ release set off a day of tense watches, frantic searches and a news media frenzy in the rain-soaked hills along Interstate 70 an hour’s drive east of Columbus.

And while there were multiple sightings of wild animals on farmland in and around Zanesville, there were no reports of any people being attacked.

Terry Thompson, 62, who officials said let the animals out, had assembled the exotic collection, creature by creature, with his wife, largely out of their love of wild animals, friends said. But there had been trouble in their lives: Mr. Thompson was released from a federal prison three weeks ago after a serving a year for possessing illegal firearms, and friends said he and his wife were estranged.

The creatures were eventually hunted down and killed by Muskingum County sheriff’s deputies and other law enforcement officials — at first with handguns, and later with assault rifles — as the animals wandered the property or ventured out of nearby woods.

At least 49 had been killed by Wednesday afternoon, most of them within 500 yards of their pens, including 17 lions and at least one animal described as a big cat that was hit by a car as it tried to cross a street. It was later euthanized by the authorities.

Six other animals — three leopards, a grizzly bear and two monkeys — were shot with tranquilizer darts and sent to the Columbus Zoo, where they were placed under quarantine. And various species of monkeys, found alive in cages inside the Thompson house, were also spared.

Mr. Thompson’s wife, Marian, arrived at the property on Wednesday and pleaded with officials not to kill her animals.

Jack Hanna, the director emeritus of the Columbus Zoo, was helping the authorities at the scene and said that Ms. Thompson had begged them, “Please don’t take my babies,” as they tracked down the wild creatures.

Animal rights advocates criticized the Muskingum County Sheriff’s Department for killing so many of the animals, but Sheriff Matt Lutz took pains on Wednesday to illustrate the danger of using nonlethal force in such circumstances.

He said that a veterinarian had tried to shoot a fleeing Bengal tiger with a tranquilizer dart, but that it either missed or only enraged the 300-pound animal. “It just went crazy,” Sheriff Lutz said. “We had to put it down.”

The sheriff described some of the animals that had been killed as “mature, very big, aggressive” with “high potential” for being dangerous to humans. “We could not have animals running loose in this county,” he said. “We could not have that.”

The Sheriff’s Department shut down all roads leading to Mr. Thompson’s sprawling farm, where most of the animals were kept in pens and cages at the top of a hill, although some were also in the garage and in the house. Neighbors gathered at the blockade, more excited than frightened about the unusual proceedings in their normally quiet town, perhaps best known as the birthplace of the Western writer Zane Grey. Schools were closed for the day out of fear that children might be attacked.

Mr. Thompson, who had run afoul of the law dozens of times over questions of whether his animals were being fed regularly and kept in sanitary conditions, pleaded guilty to federal charges in April 2010 of possessing eight illegal firearms — five automatic weapons and three short-barreled guns whose serial numbers had been filed off, according to court documents.

He spent a year and a day in prison, said Fred Alverson, a spokesman for the attorney’s office in Columbus. (It was unclear who took care of the animals while Mr. Thompson was imprisoned.) When he was arrested, federal agents confiscated more than 100 firearms from the property, and they believed he had been illegally selling the weapons, according to documents filed in federal court in Columbus.

The Thompsons also had liens of about $56,000 for back and penalties from the , records showed.

Local law enforcement officials said they repeatedly visited the Thompson farm after receiving complaints, but could do little more than make sure that Mr. Thompson had the proper permits for keeping the animals. He did.

“We’ve handled numerous complaints, numerous inspections,” Sheriff Lutz said. “This has been a huge problem for us.”

Dave Sacks, a spokesman for the , said that under the federal Animal Welfare Act, the agency monitors exotic animal owners only if they exhibit the animals to the public for compensation.

“The rub in Ohio is that U.S.D.A. does not regulate that sanctuary because Mr. Thompson does not exhibit his animals to the public for compensation,” Mr. Sacks said.

Will Travers, the chief executive of Born Free USA, a nonprofit advocacy group that supports wild animals and opposes the exotic pet trade, said that Ohio is one of only eight states that do not regulate exotic animals. It did briefly after a bear mauling, but Gov. allowed the ban to expire.

“Ohio has a particularly bad record when it comes to exotics,” Mr. Travers said.

Although many details remained unclear, the authorities described a chaotic, bloody scene on Tuesday after deputies first responded to two 911 calls about Mr. Thompson’s animals running free — not an unusual occurrence.

But when deputies arrived about 5:30 p.m. , they were confronted by several of the animals.

Sheriff Lutz said that with night falling he had little choice but to give his deputies permission to shoot. They do not normally carry tranquilizer darts, he said.

During the height of the confusion on Tuesday night, Sheriff Lutz said, it was unclear how many animals had been killed. “When they’re shooting animals in all directions, it’s hard to keep track,” he said.

On Wednesday, he told reporters that his officers were unprepared to deal with large, frightened animals. “I had deputies that had to shoot with sidearms,” Sheriff Lutz said. “These are 300-pound Bengal tigers that we had to put down.”

Once the extent of the danger to his deputies became apparent, he said, deputies were given high-powered rifles and stationed in the beds of pickup trucks, where they shot the animals as they cornered them.

During the night, deputies found Mr. Thompson’s body in the driveway of the house with a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

The authorities and friends of Mr. Thompson said most of the animals had been purchased legally at local auctions. One friend, Quentin Krouskoupf, 38, said that at one point Mr. Thompson had owned two lions that had belonged to the boxer .

As rain poured down on Wednesday, Mr. Hanna of the Columbus Zoo defended the sheriff’s actions. “What was he supposed to do?” he asked.

To the sheriff, though, the pressure of the previous 24 hours was evident. “It’s just terrible,” he said. “These killings were senseless. It was nonsense. It was crazy.”

Mr. Krouskoupf also found no sense in the tragedy. Mr. Thompson had loved his animals, Mr. Krouskoupf said. It was inconceivable to him that Mr. Thompson had freed them, knowing what would happen. “He would have known if he let them out they would be killed.”
802 2011-10-20 The federal government charges employers a base rate of 0.6 percent of the first $7,000 of each employee’s wages each year. That federal money is used to cover the administrative costs for state unemployment programs; a loan program for states that do not have enough in their unemployment trust funds to pay claims; and extended unemployment benefits during economic downturns. When a state does not repay its loans — states now owe the federal government about $39 billion — the federal government raises the employer tax rate in annual increments of 0.3 percentage points. Right now, Michigan employers are facing a 0.9 percent surcharge.

While employers have no control over federal unemployment insurance rates, they can mitigate their state costs. In general, the states charge an unemployment insurance tax on part of each employee’s income based on the company’s unemployment history. Most states calculate a business’s tax rate each year based on a formula that considers payroll size, the amount the company has paid into the system and the amount of unemployment benefits former employees have collected.

That means a worker who collects unemployment can push his former employer (or multiple former employers, when there are several over the state’s base period) into a higher unemployment insurance tax bracket, often for several years.

A typical unemployment claim against a business increases the amount that business pays in state premiums in a range of $4,000 to $7,000 over a three-year period, said David Prosnitz, owner of Personnel Planners, a company based in Chicago that fights 15,000 unemployment claims a year for its 1,000 business clients. But it can be much worse.

Here is how the math works: Say you have a 10-employee business in Illinois. If you had not had any unemployment charges during the previous three years, the state unemployment insurance rate would be 0.7 percent — the Illinois minimum — of the first $12,740 of each employee’s wages, costing your business about $900 per year. If a laid-off employee then collected $10,000 against your account, your rate would go up to almost 5 percent, increasing what you pay to more than $6,000 a year for three years and costing your business more than $16,000 in increased unemployment insurance payments over that period — more than the employee would collect.

How can an owner manage the process?

“Hiring the right people is the first step in managing unemployment costs,” said David Blaine, a Bakersfield, Calif., employment lawyer with Klein, DeNatale, Goldner, Cooper, Rosenlieb & Kimball. But if you make a mistake, act quickly. In Illinois and Virginia, for example, an employer becomes liable for unemployment benefits after 30 working days. It is important to know the period in your state and to be aware of the target date for each employee you hire.

“If you recognize you’ve made a bad hire,” said Ronald Adler, chief executive of Laurdan Associates, a human resources company in Potomac, Md., “the sooner you fire them, the better.”

After an employee starts, he or she must be treated according to the employee manual. Any problems should be handled within a system of well-documented progressive discipline: warnings, suspensions, termination (theft and violence should lead to immediate termination). “Unemployment boards want to see that people had a chance to change,” Mr. Blaine said.

Each warning should be written to show that the employee broke a rule he knew about, not that he performed poorly. An employee fired for misconduct can be denied unemployment benefits; one fired for incompetence can collect.

Also, workers who quit voluntarily should be asked to give written notice of the reason for their departure to avoid a later claim.

Lisa Faast, owner of Faast Pharmacy in Bakersfield, Calif., and a client of Mr. Blaine, learned the importance of documentation the hard way. In 2009, she discharged an employee who had been on the job three weeks, after repeated verbal warnings for walking off the premises and for being rude to customers and colleagues.

“In the hearing, I had my manager with me and we corroborated everything the other said, but they ruled in the employee’s favor,” said Dr. Faast, 32, whose five-year-old pharmacy had revenue of $5.7 million in 2010. “Now, every discussion we have with an employee is written down, and we and the employee sign. It can get kind of ridiculous. But since we’ve started that, we’ve won every case.”

The many levels of appeals can eat up time, and small businesses often lose claims because they do not have the manpower or endurance to keep up with the paperwork and hearings.

Some businesses hire specialists to monitor their claims and help fight those they want contested.

“When I first came into this business 35 years ago, I thought I was smart enough and could do it all myself,” said Norman Dinkel, owner of Dinkel’s Bakery in Chicago and a client of Mr. Prosnitz’s company, Personnel Planners. “I went to a few unemployment claims hearings, and I realized quite quickly it was a game, and you have to play it on a regular basis to have a chance to win every once in a while.”

Mr. Prosnitz charges a business with 100 employees about $1,000 a year, plus $125 for each hearing he handles.

For those who go it alone, the most important thing is to return all required forms on time and to attend every hearing, bringing written documentation. Failure to do so will lead to an automatic win for the former employee.

Finally, small-business owners should monitor their insurance statements to catch errors and to verify that they are not being charged for ex-employees who have lost claims.

“A lot of errors are made by state departments of labor, so it’s important to audit,” said Martin Taylor, vice president for human resource services at Human Capital Initiative, an Atlanta management consulting firm. Government numbers show that in 2010, 11.2 percent of unemployment insurance outlays were done improperly.
803 2011-10-20 At a meet-and-greet with Dr. Fernandez on the evening of the firing, the topic dominated conversation, with some parents dismayed at the seemingly abrupt removal of a veteran faculty member and others relieved that someone with a reputation for inappropriate comments had finally been called to account.

“He is a very anti-P.C. guy in a very P.C. school,” noted one mother who spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of angering the administration. Still, she said: “I wouldn’t condone this in the workplace, and I’m not a prude. Words matter.”

Neither Mr. Sirmon nor Dr. Fernandez would repeat the comments, citing the pending arbitration. Several parents interviewed said that Mr. Sirmon, on his first day of class this fall, joked with two black students, “I hope I’ll be able to tell you two apart.”

In an interview, Mr. Sirmon said that that was “the gist” but not the exact words, and that his intent had been misinterpreted. “It was an attempt to show how lame and stupid these ‘isms’ are, racism and anti-Semitism,” he said. “The claims were horrible; what they claim, I dispute vehemently.”

A 58-year-old white South African who is active in the teachers’ union, Mr. Sirmon is known for an off-color sense of humor that often pushes the boundaries. On the Web site ratemyteacher.com, one student described him as “hilarious and a lot of fun,” while another decried his “stupid, mean jokes,” and a third said, “He clearly spends more time crafting his dull wit than his lessons.”

“The thing about Mr. Sirmon is that you either love him or you hate him,” wrote yet another student. “He’s VERY sarcastic — some don’t like that.”

Mr. Sirmon said that after staying out sick for the first two days of school, he arrived in class on Sept. 9, a Friday, “at my peak level of making jokes to try and make people comfortable.” Instead, he said, “exactly the opposite happened.” The following Monday, Mr. Sirmon was summoned to meet with Dr. Fernandez. Also present were the dean of faculty, the head of the history department, a union representative and Dr. Love. Dr. Fernandez then offered his understanding of what had happened in class. “Some of the words he was using I had used,” Mr. Sirmon recalled, “but not in the context he was using them and not in the way he was saying them.”

Mr. Sirmon said Dr. Fernandez asked him to take a personal day on Tuesday; on Wednesday, he said, Dr. Fernandez encouraged him to resign, with “several months’ severance and a neutral recommendation,” and 24 hours to decide. That Thursday, Mr. Sirmon sent an e-mail to Dr. Fernandez, declining. “I did nothing wrong,” he said in an interview. Mr. Sirmon said Dr. Fernandez sent a termination letter that day outlining the charges against him; he would not share the letter.

“It saddens me that we have to confront such a challenging experience so early in our journey,” Dr. Fernandez wrote in his letter to the community the next day. In an interview this week, he added, “As head of school, it’s my commitment to help establish an environment where students and faculty flourish and an environment that is nurturing to the development of our students.”

Dr. Fernandez’s letter said the administration had conducted a “careful review,” and in an interview, he said, “We had corroboration of the serious nature of the occurrence.” Mr. Sirmon, though, said some of his colleagues had told him that Dr. Fernandez admitted to them that there had been no investigation.

One mother who attended the meet-and-greet said Dr. Fernandez said then that “it had been a pattern of behavior, that this was not a one-time incident.”

Mr. Sirmon grew up during apartheid. During his mandatory two years in the South African Army, he said, he was sent to what is now to quell the black independence movement. Instructed to set up a network of informants, he said, he refused because “anyone becoming an informant would face retribution and probably be killed.”

Mr. Sirmon said he was sent back to Pretoria for a court-martial, but because of “dumb luck and the incompetence of the army,” he managed to flee the country. He arrived in the in 1979, was granted political asylum in 1982 and became a citizen in 1989. After getting a master’s degree in history at the , he became a trader on Wall Street.

He later earned another master’s degree, in education, from . He taught at Milton Academy until 2000, when he joined Fieldston, where his wife also teaches and from which his son graduated in 2009. “Ninety-nine percent of students love him,” said one parent who had been involved in the school for years, who, also because of concerns about upsetting the administration, asked not to be named.

Mr. Sirmon acknowledged that his efforts at humor had sometimes failed. “There have been four to five discussions about comments I’ve made,” he said, noting they never resulted in written reprimands. “Jokes I’ve made in the past, light-hearted, were misinterpreted.”
804 2011-10-20 The filing might also add fuel to the anti-China sentiments that are running high in some Washington corridors and have started to seep into the presidential campaign.

Chinese commerce officials had no immediate comment about Wednesday’s solar panel filing, but have vehemently opposed such trade cases. A Chinese solar company manager, speaking on condition of anonymity, said in a telephone interview that in any trade case filed by the American industry, “We would be well prepared and are confident we could defend it.”

In August, Solyndra and two other American solar energy companies filed for bankruptcy protection, citing the plunging prices of solar technology from China. Many of the surviving companies, meanwhile, have been laying off workers and closing factories, or setting up shop in China.

Two Democratic senators on Wednesday joined the news conference in Washington announcing the trade case, which is being led by an solar panel maker, SolarWorld Industries America.

“American solar operations should be rapidly expanding to keep pace with the skyrocketing demand for these products,” said Senator , Democrat of Oregon. “But that is not what has been happening,” Mr. Wyden said. “There seems to be one primary explanation for this; that is, that China is cheating.”

He was joined by his Oregon colleague Senator , also a Democrat, who said China was engaging in “rogue practices.”

Whatever the partisan positioning, though, the trade case will procedurally begin above the political fray. It will follow a quasi-judicial path at the Commerce Department and a related American agency, the , that is intended to operate without partisan influence.

Other recent industry cases against China that have followed this process include one filed in late March, involving galvanized steel wire. The most recently completed case against China, in late May, resulted in tariffs of about 33 percent levied against certain types of imported aluminum products.

The White House on Wednesday declined to comment on the solar trade filing. But recently appeared to support the American solar industry’s concerns. In a White House news conference on Oct. 6 he said: “Even if the technology was developed in the United States, they end up going to China because the Chinese government will say, ‘We’re going to help you get started, we’ll help you scale up, we’ll give you low-interest loans or no-interest loans, we will give siting, we will do whatever it takes for you to get started here.’ ”

United States policy toward China provoked a recent back-and-forth between Mr. Obama’s staff and , whom many Democrats expect to be the Republican presidential nominee. Mr. Romney, talking tough in a Republican debate last week, said the United States had been “run over by China” for 20 years and “you have to have a president that will take action.”

In response, Mr. Obama’s senior campaign strategist, , countered that Mr. Romney was once again flip-flopping, having criticized Mr. Obama in the past as for mounting a trade case against China on behalf of American tire producers.

Wednesday’s filing could prove too late to save the American solar panel industry. China already accounts for three-fifths of the world’s solar panel production, giving it enormous economies of scale.

China exports 95 percent of its production, much of it to the United States, which has helped push wholesale solar panel prices down from $3.30 a watt of capacity in 2008 to $1.80 by last January and now to $1.20. A typical solar panel might have a capacity of 230 watts.

The trade case seeks tariffs “well in excess of 100 percent” on the wholesale price of Chinese solar panels on arrival at American docks, as punishment for dumping goods. Including installation, the American solar power market is worth about $6 billion a year. So far, though, solar power generates only about one-tenth of 1 percent of the United States’ electricity because it is still more expensive than fossil fuels. Any price increase in the technology — particularly an effective doubling of the price of Chinese imports through tariffs — is not likely to improve that ratio.

SolarWorld Industries America, the largest maker of conventional solar panels in the United States, made the decision in late spring to assemble a coalition for a case against China, even before Solyndra’s difficulties became widely known, according to Gordon Brinser, SolarWorld’s president.

Significantly, the other six companies that joined the case have withheld their names, as they are entitled to do under Commerce Department rules. Many companies fear that the Chinese government is ready to retaliate against any business that challenges its policies.

SolarWorld Industries America, based in Hillsboro, Ore., is a subsidiary of SolarWorld, a German company. The American subsidiaries of foreign companies are allowed to file antidumping and antisubsidy cases if they produce goods in the United States. Solyndra is not taking part because it does not manufacture the traditional kind of panels, so-called blue solar panels, covered by the case.

“This had nothing to do with any input from either side of the aisle” in Congress, nor was it influenced by the Obama administration, Mr. Brinser added. SolarWorld might have acted sooner, he said, except that the Obama administration announced a year ago that it would investigate whether China’s clean energy policies violated international trade rules. But so far the administration has taken no action on solar power beyond alerting the to Chinese subsidies.

SolarWorld said it was representing a newly formed trade association, the Coalition for American Solar Manufacturing. An existing trade group, Solar Energy Industries Association, is deeply split over trade actions against China, because it includes American subsidiaries of Chinese solar manufacturers and American companies that sell raw materials and factory equipment to Chinese makers of solar panels.

One of those American units, Suntech Power, which is owned by Suntech, a leading Chinese company in the field, said on Wednesday that it opposed the trade filing. That could be a big blow to the company, if successful. Suntech ships solar cells from China to the United States. where they are bolted together in for final delivery.

“The U.S. is a major contributor to the fast-growing global solar industry,” said Andrew Beebe, Suntech’s chief commercial officer. “Protectionism would not only put thousands of jobs at risk, but it would inhibit solar technology’s ability to compete against traditional forms of electricity generation,” he said.

The trade case contends that China has helped its solar panel industry by providing the equivalent of billions of dollars in subsidies in the form of deeply discounted loans, land, electricity, water and raw materials, as well as cash grants and breaks.

Many American companies also receive subsidies from federal, state and local programs — as in the instance of Solyndra’s $528 million in federal loan guarantees. And Mr. Brinser said that SolarWorld was in the process of obtaining $4 million in research assistance from the federal government. An Energy Department report in July said that federal subsidies for solar power totaled $1.134 billion in the 2010 fiscal year, up from $179 million in 2009.

But because few American companies export 95 percent of their production, they are less likely to run afoul of trade rules against export subsidies.
805 2011-10-20 A rise in food and energy prices pushed up the index for consumer prices in the United States in September, although the increase was slower than in August, according to government statistics released on Wednesday.

The report, from the Labor Department, showed that the overall Consumer Price Index rose 0.3 percent last month compared with a 0.4 percent increase in August. Gasoline prices rose at a faster pace, while the increase in food prices slowed.

The core C.P.I., which strips out such volatile categories, increased 0.1 percent in September, its smallest rise since March, compared with 0.2 percent in August. It was kept in check by some of its crucial components, like rents, which rose moderately, and automobiles, which did not rise at all. Apparel, used cars and recreation declined.

The report, which reflects seasonally adjusted figures, showed that inflationary pressures had been largely contained despite a rise in wholesale prices. And some commodity prices are expected to moderate in the months ahead as lower energy costs start to filter through the data, according to Russell Price, a senior economist with Ameriprise Financial.

“That is the lagging impact of petroleum prices,” he said.

The overall consumer index was 3.9 percent in the 12 months through September compared with 3.8 percent in August. Gasoline rose 2.9 percent in September, compared with 1.9 percent the month before. Food prices were up 0.4 percent, compared with 0.5 percent in August.

In the 12 months through September, the core index was up 2 percent, the same rate as in the 12-month period through August.
806 2011-10-20 Q.     What exactly does the ''I'm Feeling Lucky'' button in Google Picasa do to make pictures look better?...
807 2011-10-20 8:51 p.m. | Updated      The stock market's summer storm, which racked up a long list of victims in finance, even shook one of the industry's most solid performers: BlackRock....
808 2011-10-20 4:59 p.m. | Updated The Andy Warhol Foundation announced on Wednesday that it will dissolve its authentication board early next year. In a statement, the foundation said the move reflects its intent to shift focus toward maximizing ''grant making ...
809 2011-10-20 Founded 230 years ago near the banks of the Thames, the Man Group has transformed itself from a British barrel maker to a rum merchant to a $70 billion money manager dominant in Europe and Asia.     Now the company, the world's largest publicly tr...
810 2011-10-20 Stocks in the United States fell and the euro erased gains as a split emerged between France and Germany on ways to increase the European bailout fund. In addition, Apple's shares helped lead tech stocks lower after its iPhone sales in its fiscal ...
811 2011-10-21 The hedge fund manager, Bo Brownstein, admitted to netting nearly $2.5 million in illegal profits after trading on an insider stock tip about a pending acquisition of Mariner Energy by the Apache Corporation....
812 2011-10-21 Professor Cornel West was among 30 demonstrators who were arrested at a protest of warrantless stops by the New York Police Department....
813 2011-10-21 Professor Cornel West was among 30 demonstrators who were arrested at a protest of warrantless stops by the New York Police Department....
814 2011-10-21 All the fashion news of the week that's fit to reprint....
815 2011-10-21 All the fashion news of the week that's fit to reprint....
816 2011-10-21 The hedge fund manager, Bo Brownstein, admitted to netting nearly $2.5 million in illegal profits after trading on an insider stock tip about a pending acquisition of Mariner Energy by the Apache Corporation....
817 2011-10-21 Since taking over in March, writing the Talk Q. and A. hasn't been exactly what you could call a white-knuckle experience. Since the pages of The New York Times Magazine close more than a week before they hit newsstands, we can't outrun the news....
818 2011-10-21 Since taking over in March, writing the Talk Q. and A. hasn't been exactly what you could call a white-knuckle experience. Since the pages of The New York Times Magazine close more than a week before they hit newsstands, we can't outrun the news....
819 2011-10-21 The Deal Professor examines the unintended consequences of changes in corporate governance and the prospects for the future....
820 2011-10-21 The Deal Professor examines the unintended consequences of changes in corporate governance and the prospects for the future....
821 2011-10-21 A new biography of Steve Jobs says Apple's former leader wanted to shake up the textbook business....
822 2011-10-21 A new biography of Steve Jobs says Apple's former leader wanted to shake up the textbook business....
823 2011-10-21 Fox won the American television rights to the World Cup in 2018 and 2022 by out-bidding ESPN, while Telemundo got the Spanish-language rights....
824 2011-10-21 Fox won the American television rights to the World Cup in 2018 and 2022 by out-bidding ESPN, while Telemundo got the Spanish-language rights....
825 2011-10-21 On rooftops, balconies, sidewalks and streets, the traditional sukkah, recalling Israelites' wandering in the desert, changes the face of New York neighborhoods....
826 2011-10-21 On rooftops, balconies, sidewalks and streets, the traditional sukkah, recalling Israelites' wandering in the desert, changes the face of New York neighborhoods....
827 2011-10-21 Three years after Britain rescued Royal Bank of Scotland, the Lloyds Banking Group and Northern Rock, DealBook tracked down some former top executives....
828 2011-10-21 Three years after the British government rescued Royal Bank of Scotland, the Lloyds Banking Group and Northern Rock, DealBook tracks down some former top executives....
829 2011-10-21 But amid the chorus of hosannas, a note of caution: We’ve been down this road with saviors before.

Remember Andy MacPhail? A baseball blue-blood as a third-generation general manager, he won two World Series titles with the small-market Minnesota Twins before he turned 40. Like Epstein, MacPhail was regarded as baseball’s brightest young thinker when the Cubs hired him in 1994. Imagine what he’d do with the imposing resources of mighty Tribune Company at his disposal.

Not much, as it turned out. Two playoff appearances in 13 seasons. A 6-9 record in three postseason series. His cleverest critics snidely dismissed him as “MacFail” well before he departed under a quit-or-be-fired ultimatum in 2006.

Dusty Baker? He was the Cubs’ first dugout superstar since Leo Durocher, arriving with three Manager of the Year citations on his résumé, along with a World Series appearance and three division titles. What a coup for MacPhail and Jim Hendry to lure Baker here from San Francisco in 2003. It looked even better when he guided the Cubs to a 21-game improvement and a surprise division title in his first season.

But the unraveling that began in Game 6 of the 2003 National League Championship Series never stopped. Baker was fired in 2006 after back-to-back fifth-place finishes, Chicago turning against his toothpicks and his wristbands with a disdain usually reserved for reform-minded politicians or Green Bay Packers.

Lou Piniella? Now here was a manager, battle-hardened by 14 years in the Yankee pressure cooker. A World Series title in Cincinnati, and three division winners in Seattle, one coming after a record 116-win regular season that followed Alex Rodriguez’s defection to Texas. Now here was a manager — division titles in his first two seasons with the Cubs, the second achieved with the best record in baseball.

But Piniella’s Cubs were 0-for-October, and he saw things getting no better after the Dodgers’ first-round playoff sweep in 2008. Piniella’s lack of interest was so obvious and so alarming that no one objected when he decided to head home to Tampa with six weeks remaining in the 2010 season. Some of his players offered to help him pack.

What Ricketts wants is a complete organizational overhaul, not a quick fix. Isn’t it about time? The Cubs have lacked an identity for the better part of their 103-year title drought — why have they failed to produce a left-handed, middle-of-the-order bopper since Billy Williams left in 1975? Why don’t they grasp the game-altering vagaries of Wrigley Field any better than an average fan mulling whether to grab a jacket as he’s leaving for the park?

If Epstein hasn’t done so already, he will assemble a cadre of young baseball scientists to design a team that can swing for the street when the wind is blowing out, or manufacture small-ball runs when it’s blowing in. This team will catch the ball and throw it to the right base in support of a high-strikeout, low-walk pitching staff that also gets ground-ball outs. If there’s a statue of Ferguson Jenkins in the works, it should go inside the park to remind Cubs pitchers how it’s done.

This isn’t going to happen overnight — the 91-loss team Epstein inherits has one star-quality player and isn’t close to the playoff-ready Red Sox squad that reached Game 7 of the A.L.C.S. in 2003, his first year as its general manager.

Patience is back in vogue at Wrigley Field, marketed as a nice complement to beer and sunshine.
830 2011-10-21 “Not only was there something in our case, but there was maybe another case,” Jesse said. “It was shocking.”

The night before their mother’s body was found, Jesse and Caitlin, then 7 and 3, had spent the night with their father, Phillip Baker. Their parents were married in 1977, but at the time of her death they had lived apart for more than a year.

The police initially focused on Mr. Baker as a suspect. The couple had struggled financially, he said, but were devoted to the children and remained best friends. After six weeks, the police decided that Mr. Baker was not the killer, but they had no other leads.

And they have not had any since, the Baker family said. Over the years, Caitlin, now 27, and Jesse would press investigators for information. Detectives would patiently show them the cold case file room and explain that their mother’s murder was one of many that they needed to solve.

“Until now that’s all it’s been, a file gathering dust,” Jesse said.

Then this summer, cold case investigators with the Austin police again started asking questions about their mother’s death.

This time was different.

Mr. Morton’s lawyer, John Raley of Houston, and lawyers with the Innocence Project had been searching for evidence to exonerate him.

They had won a long court battle to have DNA tests done on a bandanna found near the scene of his wife’s murder, and it was discovered in August that it matched the DNA of a man with felony arrests in multiple states.

When researchers for the lawyers looked for similar unsolved crimes in places where the new suspect had lived over the years, they found the Baker case on the Austin Police Department’s Web site.

The man, who is identified only as John Doe in court documents because he is not in custody and has not been charged in either case, lived near the Mortons and only blocks from the Bakers in the 1980s.

Mr. Morton’s lawyers alerted Travis County officials, who quickly matched the DNA sample from the bandanna in the Morton case to a pubic hair found at the scene of Ms. Baker’s murder.

The Baker family learned all of that in the Williamson County courtroom earlier this month; they had gone to a hearing for Mr. Morton after learning of the connection to their mother’s case. “It took that hearing to know this was maybe something real,” Jesse said.

Mr. Morton was released from prison on Oct. 4 after nearly 25 years, and last week the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals officially exonerated him. But his case is not over: two inquiries are under way into how his case was handled.

Mr. Morton’s lawyers say that the Williamson County district attorney’s office withheld a transcript in which Ms. Morton’s mother told a sheriff’s investigator that the couple’s 3-year-old son saw a “monster” who brutally attacked his mother.

The defense lawyers also say prosecutors withheld information that Ms. Morton’s credit card was used and a check cashed with her forged signature days after her death.

Ken Anderson, who was the district attorney at the time of Mr. Morton’s trial, is now a state district judge in Williamson County. He did not respond to requests for comment, and his lawyer has moved to quash a subpoena ordering him to answer questions about the case.

The current district attorney, John Bradley, fought to prevent the DNA testing that led to Mr. Morton’s exoneration and opposed the release of other evidence to his defense attorneys. Mr. Bradley, in an e-mail, said “ethical rules and investigative standards” prevented him from answering questions.

This week, Mr. Bradley asked the Texas attorney general to take over as special prosecutor to find Ms. Morton’s killer.

Jesse Baker said he needs to know what happened in Williamson County and whether officials there allowed the man who murdered Ms. Morton to escape justice and kill his mother.

“The thought that they may have some responsibility in all this and they might not be held accountable is too much to think about,” he said.

Jesse and Caitlin said that after decades of disappointments they worry that their mother’s case will be shelved again. The family has received little information about the new investigation.

Buddy Meyer, a Travis County assistant district attorney, said he could not reveal details that might jeopardize the inquiry. “It is a priority,” he said, and “will not fall by the wayside.”
831 2011-10-21 A renowned South Korean climber and two of his partners have disappeared while trying to reach the summit of Mount Annapurna, officials and rescuers said Thursday. Dipendra Poudel of the Mountaineering Department in Katmandu said rescuers had not been able to find any trace of the three South Koreans, who have been missing since Tuesday. One of the climbers, Park Young-seok, has climbed the world’s 14 tallest mountains and reached the North and South Poles.
832 2011-10-21 Five men from Harlem were convicted on Thursday of running a drug-trafficking conspiracy in a trial that examined the intricacies of what prosecutors called a gang.

Jurors deliberated for a little more than a week before convicting all but one of the defendants of the top conspiracy charges they faced.

Three of the men — Jaquan Layne, Jeffrey Brown and Habiyb Mohammed — were convicted of first-degree conspiracy, which carries a maximum sentence of 25 years to life in prison. The top charge against a fourth man, Jahlyl Layne, Jaquan Layne’s brother, was second-degree conspiracy. He was convicted of that charge and now faces a 25-year sentence.

The fifth defendant, Jonathan Hernandez, was acquitted of the top charge against him, first-degree conspiracy, but he was convicted of third- and fourth-degree conspiracy, as well as more serious charges of attempted assault and weapons possession. Those charges carry maximum sentences of up to 15 years in prison.

All of the defense lawyers said they would appeal.

The case was closely watched because it addressed what prosecutors considered a gang: a structured criminal enterprise centered on drug sales. Defense lawyers said that even though their clients might have been involved in bad conduct, they were not an organized enterprise.
833 2011-10-21 Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda, left, said the government would spend at least $13 billion to clean up vast areas contaminated by radiation from the world’s worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl. In an interview with the public broadcaster NHK, Mr. Noda said the decontamination was “a prerequisite for people to return to their homelands.” About 80,000 people have been forced to leave their homes since the accident at the Daiichi nuclear power plant in Fukushima. So far, the government has raised $2.9 billion for the decontamination, Mr. Noda said, and plans to allocate a further $3.3 billion in the third extra budget it is set to formalize on Friday. He said more money would come in next year’s budget.
834 2011-10-21 It has been seven years since the Roman Catholic Church’s investigative board of laity warned that, beyond the 700 priests dismissed for sexually abusing children, “there must be consequences” for the diocesan leaders who recycled criminal priests through unsuspecting parishes. American church authorities have done nothing to heed this caution.

Now state prosecutors in Missouri have shown the courage the prelates lacked. They indicted Bishop Robert Finn of the Diocese of Kansas City-St. Joseph for allegedly failing to notify criminal authorities about a popular parish priest who is accused of taking pornographic photographs of young parochial schoolgirls — despite community alarms and evidence submitted to the diocese.

Bishop Finn, who professed his innocence under the indictment, had previously outraged church faithful by acknowledging that he knew of the photos last December but did not turn them over to the police until May.

This occurred despite the requirements of state law — and the bishop’s own policy vows — that suspected crimes against children be immediately reported. The priest, the Rev. Shawn Ratigan, continued to attend church events and allegedly abuse children until he was indicted this year on 13 counts of child pornography.

Bishop Finn is only the first ranking prelate in the nationwide scandal to be held criminally liable for the serial misbehavior of a priest in his diocese. Investigations have shown that many more diocesan officials across the country worked assiduously to bury the scandal from public view over the years, despite continuing damage inflicted on thousands of innocent youngsters.

In 2004, the nation’s bishops promised unqualified cooperation with law enforcement. They instituted zero-tolerance reforms for priests but failed to create a credible process for bringing bishops to account. Missouri officials deserve credit for puncturing the myth that church law and a bishop’s authority can somehow take precedence over criminal law — and the safety of children.
835 2011-10-21 Sometimes a film feels a bit too pat and yet is impossible to resist. “The Mighty Macs,” based on the national championship run of the 1972 women’s basketball team at Immaculata College near Philadelphia, is such a film: lots of button pushing, but in the end you’re glad you saw it.

Carla Gugino plays Cathy Rush, a first-time coach (now in the Basketball Hall of Fame) who takes over a doormat team and, with relentless practices that sometimes border on abusive, shows its players how to win.

Ellen Burstyn is Mother St. John, the head of the college, who is more worried about keeping the institution open than about properly outfitting and equipping a basketball team. David Boreanaz (a star of the Fox show “Bones”) plays Ms. Rush’s husband, Ed, in a thinly drawn characterization that is supposed to represent male spouses who struggle with the notion that their wives might want careers.

The whole female-empowerment subplot of the film feels a bit out of phase, more ’50s than ’70s. And the Cinderella nature of the team’s run isn’t quite as remarkable as it would be today: back then, what was called the national championship tournament had only 16 teams, in contrast to the N.C.A.A. behemoth we know now.

That said, you have to love seeing nuns shouting basketball strategy from courtside. And the updates on the team’s players that flash by at the film’s end drive home why this is a sports story that deserved to be told.

Written, produced and directed by Tim Chambers; co-written by Anthony Gargano; director of photography, Chuck Cohen; Whitney Springer, producer. Running time: 1 hour 38 minutes. This film is rated G.
836 2011-10-21 It’s impossible not to be moved watching Anne Buford’s “Elevate,” a documentary about Senegalese basketball players given a chance to play and receive an education in the United States.

Their journey begins in Dakar, at the Seeds Academy (it stands for Sports for Education and Economic Development in Senegal), a boarding school where top West African players can receive full scholarships to American prep schools. The film follows four: Assane, who attends South Kent School in Connecticut; Aziz, who goes to the Lake Forest Academy in Illinois and sustains a knee injury in an early game; Byago, who is initially rejected for a visa but winds up at the College of Southern Idaho; and Dethie, also at South Kent, who aspires to be a doctor but struggles with his SATs.

We see these young men struggle with assimilation — mastering English and learning to drive, meeting girls, facing a headmaster hell-bent on sending one to Princeton — and feel their joy on trips home. And we exult when they graduate.

But no one is more inspiring than Amadou Gallo Fall, a Senegalese man who, early in life, was discovered by a Peace Corps worker and granted a Stateside basketball scholarship. Mr. Fall, a former scout for the Dallas Mavericks, founded the Seeds Academy to nurture his countrymen. His conviction, level gaze and firm eloquence instill pride, drive and determination in his players. Mr. Fall, a coach on the court and in life, is the real champion here.

Opens on Friday in New York and Los Angeles.

Directed by Anne Buford; edited by Richard Hankin; music by Shawn Lee; produced by Ms. Buford, Chiemi Karasawa, Mark Becker and Victoria Yoffie; released by Variance Films. At the AMC Empire 25, 234 West 42nd Street, Manhattan. In English, Wolof and French, with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 21 minutes. This film is not rated.
837 2011-10-21 While not fatal, the infection can be very painful, ruining sexual pleasure. The blisters it causes, which resemble the cold sores caused on the lips by a related virus, can also be an entryway for more dangerous pathogens, including H.I.V. and syphilis.

It can be transmitted when neither partner has sores, and even using a condom is effective in preventing infection only half the time, said Dr. Anna Wald, a herpes specialist at the University of Washington’s school of public health, because — unlike AIDS — it can be transmitted by skin-to-skin contact, not just in semen or vaginal fluid.

And although it can often be controlled with another drug, acyclovir, herpes is not curable.

The new study, published online by Cell Host and Microbes this week, explains the surprise result of a much-heralded 2010 clinical trial done in South Africa.

That trial, run by Caprisa, an AIDS research center in Durban, showed for the first time that tenofovir gel protected women against H.I.V. It also showed that the roughly 450 women in the survey who did not have herpes were even better protected against it than they were against the AIDS virus.

Over all, the gel reduced H.I.V. infections by 39 percent. That announcement was greeted with a standing ovation by scientists at the international AIDS Conference in Vienna last year because it was the first weapon that women at risk of AIDS could use without a man’s knowledge.

In an unexpected bonus, the researchers also noted that it reduced herpes by 51 percent.

The new study, involving lab experiments, was done to explain why the trial worked, said Dr. Salim Abdool Karim, a professor of epidemiology at the University of KwaZulu-Natal in South Africa and Columbia University and one of the Caprisa trial leaders.

“We were very pleasantly surprised to see such a potent effect,” he said. “However, until now, we had only a hypothesis for the mechanism of action — no clear-cut data.”

The new study showed that when tenofovir enters human tissue it is converted into a form that disrupts an enzyme that herpes needs to make copies of itself.

In laboratory cultures of tonsil and cervical tissue, it lowered herpes viral levels by as much as 99 percent. It also prolonged the lives of mice that were given massive skin infections of herpes.

Taken as a pill, tenofovir inhibits H.I.V. but not herpes. Getting it into the vaginal wall is apparently crucial to its success.

Tissue concentrations of the drug are up to 100 times higher with a gel than with a pill, said Leonid Margolis, chief of intercellular interactions at the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development and an author of the study.

While the final gel trial was done in South Africa because AIDS rates there are so high, earlier safety and acceptability tests were done in several countries, including the United States. American heterosexual couples did not find the gel unpleasant; nor did South African couples, Dr. Karim said. (Gay men having anal sex have complained that it was too watery, so new formulations are in the works.)

In the Caprisa trial, the gel was used within a few hours before and after sex. Another trial now going on is testing whether using it daily is more effective.

The gel may be even more effective against herpes than the 51 percent figure reached in the Caprisa study. Among the subset of women who said they used it consistently and who gave back enough empty gel applicator tubes to confirm they were telling the truth, the protection rate against H.I.V. was 54 percent and the protection rate against herpes was 62 percent, Dr. Karim said.
838 2011-10-21 Hyyan and I were initially skeptical, worried that the rumor would prove to be unfounded, as had happened with earlier news about the capture of some of Colonel Qaddafi’s adult children. I went into the coffee shop to watch the television. Al Jazeera was attributing the news to one of its sources, but it was still unconfirmed. Then I heard a man shout into his cellphone, “The dog’s dead! The dog’s dead!” I approached one of the young men celebrating raucously outside the coffee shop and told him that I was afraid the news wasn’t true. He replied that he hoped that it was, then added that it was more important that Surt had been liberated, because that was what really meant that Libya was free.

Hyyan and I got into our car and drove off. The streets were packed, and the air was electric with the energy of victory that springs from the sound of cars’ horns and shouts of joy and “Allahu Akbar” coming from the throats of men, women and children. The red, green and black independence flags were waved by people on the sidewalks and gripped by taut arms that emerged from car windows. As we approached downtown, the traffic got worse; some streets were completely blocked. Revolutionary volunteers and policemen were directing traffic with flags and victory signs.

When we finally found a place to park, we got out and I was able to walk and get a better look at the street.

Cars passed us, carrying passengers who themselves were carried on the waves of a powerful joy. On the back of a pickup truck, a group of young men sang and clapped, one of them wearing a terrible wig, a symbol of Colonel Qaddafi’s famously wild haircut, which had given him the disparaging nickname Abu Shafshufa (father of the fuzzy hair). Another young man, in Algeria Square, held up a large portrait of Colonel Qaddafi in traditional women’s clothes. A beautiful young girl in modern dress stuck her slim torso out of the back window of a car driven by a woman, with two other women also inside — and called to a young man standing on the sidewalk, probably a family member, to join them.

In Martyrs’ Square, the crowd was larger, and the gunfire louder and more frequent. Hyyan told me not to go in, worried that I would be overcome by the crowd and the stench of gunfire. I heard a voice calling my name, and looked around to find a young revolutionary whom I knew. We exchanged greetings and congratulated each other, and spoke briefly about our hopes and concerns for the future.

Then Hyyan and I got back in the car and started to drive home. We passed a young revolutionary who asked me to turn on my orange blinkers — I noticed most of the cars had done so, too — as a sign of celebration. A woman was distributing sweets to all the drivers. All along the Wall Road that goes around Tripoli (said to be named for the wall the Italians erected to keep Libyan nationalist fighters out of the city), many people stood chanting “Allahu Akbar,” and spraying the cars with orange blossom water, a custom traditionally reserved for weddings. One of the young men shouted as he showered us: “A new life! A new life!”
839 2011-10-21 SEATTLE — Microsoft said its net income rose 6 percent in its first fiscal quarter, but the company’s results continued to reflect weak growth in PC sales.

The PC market, especially the part representing the companies using Microsoft’s Windows operating system, has suffered lately as economic uncertainty has crimped spending on information technology. Newer types of devices like tablets and mobile phones have sapped some of the business as well.

Microsoft said net income rose to $5.74 billion, or 68 cents a share, from $5.41 billion, or 62 cents a share, a year ago. Revenue rose 7 percent, to $17.37 billion, from $16.2 billion a year ago.

Analysts estimated that, on average, Microsoft would earn 68 cents a share on revenue of $17.24 billion, according to Thomson Reuters. Microsoft’s shares fell 1 percent after it released the financial results at the close of normal trading.

Microsoft said its revenue from selling Windows rose less than 2 percent during its first quarter, which ended Sept. 30. That reflects the fact that shipments of new PCs grew only 3.6 percent globally in the quarter, which ended Sept. 30, according to the research firm IDC. Apple defied the trend, reporting a 26 percent increase in the number of Macs sold during the same period, the company said on Tuesday.

Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities, said the company’s revenue from Windows sales was weaker than he had expected. “We’ve now had a year where Windows hasn’t come in in-line with analyst expectations,” he said. “It’s less of a miss than in the past.”
840 2011-10-21 But it did not.

The bank was not named in the report, even in the previously confidential part released this week.

I thought it might have been Washington Mutual, a Deloitte client that collapsed in September 2008, but Deloitte says that was not the case.

Deloitte, in its response to the board, stated that at the bank, “the audit procedures performed, the conclusions reached and the related documentation were appropriate in the circumstances.”

In other words, Deloitte concluded the board simply did not understand what it was talking about.

All that became public in early 2008, when the censored version of the board’s report became public. But it was little remarked on at the time. Now we have seen the rest of the report, and it is even more critical.

The report said its inspections indicated “a firm culture that allows, or tolerates, audit approaches that do not consistently emphasize the need for an appropriate level of critical analysis and collection of objective evidence, and that rely largely on management representations.”

Deloitte responded by denying almost everything. It did not like the “second guessing” shown by the regulators. It said “we strongly take exception” to the observation about its culture, which it said was simply wrong.

In any case, the firm concluded, “there were only a limited number of instances,” not nearly enough to justify questioning Deloitte’s quality controls.

The board inspectors found problems in 27 of the 61 Deloitte audits.

The Sarbanes-Oxley law that established the board included provisions to protect the public images of audit firms. If a board inspection found problems with the quality control systems, that was to be kept confidential unless the firm did not move to fix the problems over the following year. Then the release could be delayed while the firm tried to persuade the board to keep the information private. If that effort failed, the firm could appeal to the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Only then could the report be made public. So in this case, it took 41 months from the issuance of the report — more than three years — for Deloitte’s clients to learn of the problem.

The board also has the authority to file enforcement actions against auditors, but those, too, are private until the S.E.C. rules on an appeal. It is as if charges of robbery had to be kept confidential until all appeals had been completed. There is no way to know if the accounting board has taken action against anyone. An auditor that the board deems to be in violation of rules may keep working for years while secret proceedings continue.

Firms have every incentive to stall, and then to say that whatever is being criticized happened years ago.

Deloitte’s current chief executive, Joe Echevarria, tried to sound cooperative in his response this week, and was careful to point out he was new on the job. A Deloitte spokesman said that Barry Salzberg, the chief executive when Deloitte sent the response letter in 2008, was traveling in Asia and unavailable for comment.

Mr. Echevarria emphasized in an interview that the firm was investing in training, and spoke of a desire to be the leader in audit quality.

Until 2002, audit firms were basically unregulated. The board was established in response to the WorldCom and Enron scandals, but all the secrecy has made it hard for outside observers to know how well it is doing. The fact that its inspectors zeroed in on mortgage issues when they did is impressive.

In theory, the board can put a firm out of business, but since the demise of Arthur Andersen reduced the Big Five to what some call the Final Four, there is general agreement that going to three would be unacceptable. So while the board can credibly threaten to close down a small firm that does a dozen or two audits each year, no such threat would be credible for Deloitte or one of the other three major accounting firms.

Contempt for regulators is nothing new in the auditing world. Back in 1999 and 2000, Arthur Levitt, then the chairman of the S.E.C., tried to impose some limited rules to increase the independence of the auditors from the companies whose books they audit. The firms fought back, arguing the S.E.C. had no such authority, and in the end Mr. Levitt got only part of what he was seeking.

In private conversations I had then, chief executives of some firms were resentful of any effort to regulate them. How dare some government bureaucrats question their judgment?

By protesting that it was unfair to criticize Deloitte’s culture, the firm may have spoken volumes about that culture.

In a culture that investors might prefer, a Deloitte partner whose audit failed to pass muster with the board might find that his career prospects had worsened, as others who did better audits were promoted. Imagine if the partner responsible for the audit of that bank had seen his career suffer, or even end.

But the letter makes it appear that Deloitte’s culture was one that pulled together and provided backing for a partner criticized by a picky regulator. Would the culture provide similar backing for a partner who angered a client’s management by forcing changes in financial statements that the company did not like?The secrecy mandated by Congress preserved Deloitte’s reputation for years. Now it may be unfairly raising doubts about other firms. Did others have audit failure rates approaching Deloitte’s 44 percent? Is Deloitte the only one of the Big Four to have failed to fix problems? We don’t know. The accounting oversight board last week said it might require that audit firms disclose the names of partners in charge of each audit. The firms hate the idea, warning it could unfairly damage the reputation of individual auditors who would suffer “guilt by association” if their clients got into trouble. Secrecy about who does the work seems to be a way of life at the Big Four. Deloitte’s letters to the board dismissing its concerns were not signed by anyone other than the firm as a whole. I’d love to know which executives signed off on assuring the board there was no need to look again at that bank’s books, and to ask them if they still held that opinion.Only Congress could change the law to require that full inspection reports be released and to make enforcement actions public when formal charges are filed. But the board could at least require that letters responding to board inspections be signed by real people, and that they carry statements saying the firm’s chief executive had approved the response.
841 2011-10-21 The story begins at a Tibetan Buddhist monastery where Johnny, disgraced and stripped of his knighthood after a fiasco in Mozambique (the very word “Mozambique” triggers frantic involuntary flickering of his bushy right eyebrow), is studying martial arts. Through meditation he has learned to sustain vicious kicks to his groin without flinching and to remain poker faced while dragging around a rock roped to his crotch.

Johnny is suddenly called back to MI7, which in his absence has been privatized and renamed Toshiba British Intelligence (a nifty example of product placement spoofing itself?), complete with a corporate slogan, “Spying for You.” The agency’s haughty new boss, code name Pegasus (a deadpan Gillian Anderson), assigns him to Hong Kong to prevent the assassination of the Chinese premier. But before heading into the field he must undergo a high-tech facial scan from the resident behavioral psychologist (Rosamund Pike, the villainous Bond girl Miranda Frost in “Die Another Day”) to whom he takes a fancy. The examination becomes a comic opportunity for an up-close survey of Mr. Atkinson’s facial mobility.

Johnny, a snob and a racist, is teamed up with Tucker (Daniel Kaluuya), a smart, black junior agent who good-humoredly endures Johnny’s outrageous condescension as they pursue three assassins known as Vortex. Joining the rat race are his suave colleague Ambrose (Dominic West), whom Johnny idolizes, and a ubiquitous white-haired Asian assassin, identified only as Killer Cleaner (Pik-Sen Lim), who poses as a cleaning woman pushing around a lethal weapon disguised as a vacuum cleaner. In one scene Johnny tackles a Killer Cleaner look-alike who turns out to be a stand-in for the queen of England.

The movie coasts on the charms of its rubber-faced star and its witty, easygoing set pieces. One is a rooftop chase in which Johnny calmly uses an elevator and ladder to catch up with a fleeing villain who leaps out of windows. Another involves an office chair that rises and falls during a meeting at which the British prime minister, whom Johnny has just roundly insulted, sits on his left. Then there is the bouncing body bag with Johnny inside.

In the climactic scene at a Swiss mountain retreat Johnny, under the influence of a mind-control drug, reprises classic moments of “The Manchurian Candidate” and “Dr. Strangelove.”

The momentum of “Johnny English Reborn” is sedate, its attention span steady and its running jokes allowed to proceed without interruption. As the movie glides along, it may not elicit explosive laughter, but it plants a steady smile on your face and doesn’t leave you feeling molested. If that’s another way of saying “Johnny English Reborn” is old-fashioned, so be it.

This movie is rated PG (Parental guidance suggested). Mild violence and rude humor.

Directed by Oliver Parker; written by Hamish McColl, based on a story by William Davies; director of photography, Danny Cohen; edited by Guy Bensley; music by Ilan Eshkeri; production design by Jim Clay; costumes by Beatrix Pasztor; produced by Tim Bevan, Eric Fellner and Chris Clark; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 42 minutes.
842 2011-10-21 In a e-mail response to questions, the central bank stressed that its role was to supervise the solvency and not salary arrangements at a bank. Mr. Fernández Ordóñez declined to comment.

Beyond its handling of troubled banks, the Bank of Spain has recently been facing the same accusation that has dogged the Socialist government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero since the start of the crisis: that, having cheered the fact that Spanish banks kept away from subprime assets in the United States, it then underestimated the damage that could result from their property lending at home.

“The Bank of Spain misunderstood both the economic and the financial crisis,” said Fernando Fernández, a professor at the IE business school in Madrid and former chief economist of Banco Santander.

“They simply didn’t seem to realize that a bursting of the real estate bubble here would have a very serious impact on the banking sector, even though that had been the case in the past,” he said.

“It would be a mistake to press for his resignation,” Mr. Fernández said, “because this would create additional damage to the image of the Spanish economy, despite the fact that I think he has not been a very good governor.”

Last year, when Spain’s troubled public finances and saving banks first drew the ire of investors, the central bank was among the few Spanish institutions to retain the strong confidence of investors and economists.

The central bank had won plaudits for limiting the banks’ reliance on risky, off-the-balance-sheet derivative transactions. It was also praised for imposing buffers against excessive lending. While the extra measures helped, they were not designed to contain the spillover from the euro-zone sovereign debt crisis, which, combined with a property bubble, left its banks exposed to potential losses of 168.8 billion euros, according to the stress tests carried out by the European Banking Authority last July.

“The credibility of the Bank of Spain, which was very high coming into the crisis, has declined significantly,” said Luis Arenzana, a Madrid-based partner of Shelter Island Capital Management, an asset management company.

“The technocrats at the Bank of Spain are top-caliber people,” he said. “But the governor has been too weak, especially when dealing with politicians.”

Mr. Fernández said the central bank should have used its mandate to intervene in cajas as soon its inspectors had unearthed major problems — rather than delay by two years in some cases and try instead to engineer mergers that gave such cajas and their politicians more time to sink into trouble.

“Had some of the banks been liquidated then,” he argued, “there would not still be so much mistrust among investors about the balance sheets of all our institutions, and the ultimate cost to taxpayers would have been far less.”

The Bank of Spain said in its e-mail that using public money to take over a bank should always be the “last resort” for a supervisory authority. In the case of Caja Mediterráneo, it noted that until March the caja had been in merger talks with another entity. The talks collapsed but, if successful, “would have resolved its viability problems,” it said.

At the end of September, the central bank’s governor declared the process of recapitalization of Spanish banks completed, after the 4.75 billion-euro bailout of three more cajas that had failed to meet capital requirements set last February.

The central bank has also emphasized its efforts in tripling the level of compulsory provisioning against doubtful property loans. Over all, Spanish banks have set aside 105 billion euros in provisions.

However, with a deepening euro crisis, a stagnant economy and Spain’s real estate prices expected to fall further, analysts insist that Spanish banks will ultimately still need between 40 billion and 100 billion euros in additional capital.

Last year, the government and the Popular Party agreed to speed up the consolidation of the cajas in order to cut their number to about 15 from 45, under the supervision of the central bank.

As an independent institution, the central bank should have insisted, however, that “the first thing that was needed was to get the cajas out of the hands of the politicians” who control them, according to Juan José Toribio, a professor at the IESE Business School. “The opposite was done, with the consolidation coming first and then an attempt to convert them in real banks, which is still problematic and under way.”

Mr. Toribio, who began as an economist at the Bank of Spain in the 1970s, said the bank had since become “a much more professional entity.” But, he added, “the experience of the recent months shows a lack of agility.”

Meanwhile, the Popular Party’s recent criticism has raised speculation that, if elected next month, it would demand that Mr. Fernández Ordóñez resign before the end of his mandate next July. “If the new government removes the governor, I think it will be cheered by the commercial banks and spark some fear among the savings banks,” said Mr. Arenzana, the portfolio manager.

The central bank’s handing of the crisis has not reflected lack of independence or professionalism, but the bank should also be faulted for recently “hurrying into some things,” according to Alfonso García Mora, director general of Analistas Financieros Internacionales, a financial consultancy based in Madrid.

In some cases, he said, its poor timing probably reflected a failure to take into account the broader European context, notably the bank’s decision to have Spain submit the largest contingent of banks to European stress tests, even as Germany avoided putting some of its troubled banks under such scrutiny.

“Transparency is a great thing, but it isn’t always helpful if it isn’t adopted by others,” he said.
843 2011-10-21 Even as women have made strides in many areas of political life, Congress remains male dominated. From the galleries above, the Senate and House floors often appear to be a sea of red and blue ties, with the occasional mid-calf red skirt suit floating among them. Until just a few months ago, there wasn’t even a women’s restroom near the House floor.

The Senate has been a particularly tough electoral mountain for women to climb. In 1922, Rebecca L. Felton of served a mere 24 hours to replace a dead member, and from then on, women accounted for just one or two members — at times none at all — until 1993. It took the last two decades for the count to reach the current 17. If all or most of the incumbent women prevail in 2012, and even just a few women of the many recruited win new seats, women would reach an all-time high in the Senate. But the loss of just one female Senate seat with no replacements would cost women ground in the Senate for the first time since 1978, when the number of women in the Senate went to one from two.

This would continue a drift that began last year, when the number of women in the House fell by one, to 72. (A special election in New York in May brought the number back to 73.) State legislatures felt the pinch in 2010, when 81 women lost their seats, the largest such loss ever.

Women serving in the Senate are not eager to see their numbers shrink. “I think it is very important for legislative bodies to have women,” said Mrs. Hutchison, who recalled when she was among a handful of female lawmakers in the Texas legislature in the 1970s who crafted legislation to address how victims were treated in court.

“It wasn’t that the men were against our legislation,” she said, “It was just they never thought about the issue.”

Women in both parties are often more reluctant candidates, said several female senators, and those who advise them. “Men who have the slightly relevant experience will jump in without a second thought,” said Barbara Lee, president of the Barbara Lee Family Foundation, which works to engage women in politics. “Women need to be recruited and asked multiple times by multiple people in order to consider running.”

Unlike men, who tend to be attracted to public office because of their interest in politics, women often run because their interest is sparked by a single policy issue, often quite local. This dynamic is a theme of ABC’s hit show “Modern Family,” in which one main character, Claire Dunphy, a housewife, is running for town council against the male incumbent who refused her neighborhood a new stop sign.

It is not so unlike what ignited the political passions of Senator , Democrat of Washington, who first ran for her local school board when a state politician mocked her for trying to save a preschool program that her children used.

As chairwoman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, Ms. Murray, who was elected to the Senate in 1992, is now focused heavily on recruiting women to run. She already helped talk Representative Tammy Baldwin, a Democrat who was the first female House member from , to run, along with several others.

“Obviously when I was elected in 1992 there wasn’t a lot of success to point to,” Ms. Murray said. “But there was a collective sense at the time that there needed to be a better culture in the Senate.” For instance, she said, women have learned to feel comfortable with saying a meeting has to be moved because that is the time that they need to be at a parent-teacher conference.

Senator , a Democrat from New York who was appointed to fill the seat of and is up for re-election next year, said women often work better across the aisle. Female senators have a quarterly bipartisan dinner, and Ms. Gillibrand said she recently found herself sitting next to Senator , Republican of Maine, during the nasty fiscal fight seizing Congress.

“She touched my arm and said, ‘Kirsten, if you and I were negotiating the budget we would have gotten it done a week ago,” Ms. Gillibrand said.
844 2011-10-21 And all of this is happening at a time when analysts expect slowdowns in Europe and the United States to also be felt in China, which has a huge export industry.

But the move Thursday was largely related to China’s domestic issues, and the way in which it finances much of its growth.

China restricts local governments from issuing bonds, but does allow them to set up companies that raise money using land and other government assets as collateral. The governments have been aggressive in using local government financing vehicles — whose debts do not show up on government budgets — to build roads, bridges and other infrastructure projects.

The use of local government financing vehicles intensified in China after economic growth slowed in 2008, and Beijing began encouraging government stimulus packages to ramp up growth. The plan seemed to work, driving growth up to 10 percent in many parts of the country, but also fueling inflation and soaring property prices.

Now, there are concerns that the nation’s state-run lenders are sitting on top of enormous debts, and that eventually Beijing will be forced to bailout the banks and local governments.

Officially, local government debt was about $1.7 trillion, or about 27 percent of the size the national economy, at the end of 2010. But that figure does not include central government debts for huge endeavors, like the nation’s high-speed rail program.

A decade ago, Beijing was forced to bail out the big state-owned banks because many state-run companies were insolvent.

Shares of the biggest Chinese lenders have been slumping in recent months, partly because of concerns that the debts may be larger than the amounts the government has acknowledged.

Chinese banks have reported a relatively minor amount of nonperforming loans on their books, but analysts and investors either do not believe the figure or expect it to grow quickly in the coming two years.

Stephen Green, an economist at Standard Chartered, wrote in a report this week that Chinese banks “may need a pre-emptive bailout.”

“China is not suffering a banking crisis now,” Mr. Green wrote. “But there’s growing cause for concern. The only way to avert more serious problems is a new wave of reform.”

Liu Mingkang, the head of China’s banking regulatory commission, acknowledged some of these problems in a speech that was posted on the regulator’s Web site this week.

“Undeniably, the problems of irregular and imprudent management and lack of supervising mechanisms that exist in local government financing vehicles have created some hidden risks,” he said.
845 2011-10-21 Earlier, another senior Pakistani official said that Mrs. Clinton’s remarks in Kabul did not “enable the atmosphere.”

They did, however, underscore a growing American realization that hopes for a smooth withdrawal from Afghanistan by 2014 now hinged on Pakistan’s willingness to confront insurgent groups based in the country who have had the support of Pakistan’s intelligence service.

Before the meeting, which took place at the residence of Prime Minister , a senior administration official said that the delegation would make it clear that if the Pakistanis did not act against insurgents like the , then the United States would have to.

The Haqqani network uses Pakistan’s tribal areas as a base and has become the most potent part of the insurgency in Afghanistan. Before stepping down last month, Adm. , General Dempsey’s predecessor, called the Haqqanis “a veritable arm” of Pakistan’s intelligence service.

The public accusation added to tensions in America’s relationship with Pakistan, which plummeted to a new low this year as Pakistan arrested a C.I.A. contractor and American commandoes killed deep inside the country in May.

The Obama administration decided to take a harder line with Pakistan in a meeting at the White House on Sept. 29 in the wake of a 19-hour assault on the American Embassy in Kabul by heavily armed insurgents linked to the Haqqani network.

The senior administration official said that the administration’s previous efforts to press the Pakistanis to sever support for extremists had clearly failed and now required a more confrontational approach. “Soft love hasn’t worked,” the official said.

Pakistan’s response remains to be seen. In recent weeks, Pakistani officials have sent conflicting signals, both publicly and privately. Prime Minister Gilani greeted the American delegation warmly, in contrast to a tense meeting with Mrs. Clinton and Admiral Mullen in May after the raid that killed Bin Laden. Pakistan’s foreign minister, Hina Rabbani Khar, also attended the meetings and dinner.

But General Kayani and General Pasha hold different views from the Americans on how the war in Afghanistan should end and what kind of Afghanistan they would like to see after the American withdrawal.

The Pakistani officials said that they wanted to see if the American delegation would present a unified front, especially on the true extent of America’s support for reconciliation with opponents of Mr. Karzai’s government in Kabul. Some Pakistani military officers appeared to have given up on having anything but the most limited of relationships with the United States, and were resigned to deep cuts in American aid, given declining support in Congress.

Meeting with Mr. Karzai in Kabul, Mrs. Clinton said that Pakistan could “either be helping or hindering” efforts to find both a military and a political resolution to the war here.

“We will be delivering a very clear message to the government of Pakistan and to the people of Pakistan because they, too, have suffered,” she said, beneath a canopy of trees at the presidential palace in Afghanistan’s capital. “They have suffered at the hand of the same kind of terrorists. So there should be no support and no safe haven anywhere for people who kill innocent men, women and children.”

Mr. Karzai, who has repeatedly accused Pakistan of interference in Afghanistan, echoed her remarks, saying that Pakistan had long harbored enemies of his government, including the , whose leadership fled to Pakistan after the American invasion in 2001.

While the Obama administration has pressed Afghanistan to seek reconciliation with some elements of the Taliban, Mr. Karzai said Thursday that that would not be possible without Pakistan’s positive involvement.

“We believe that the Taliban to a very, very great extent — to a very, very great extent — are controlled by establishments in Pakistan, stay in Pakistan, have their headquarters in Pakistan, launch attacks from Pakistan,” he said.

Tentative and still fruitless efforts to lure the Taliban into a peace process were dealt a severe setback when a man claiming to be a peace envoy killed Burhanuddin Rabbani, the leader of Afghanistan’s High Peace Council and a former president, using a bomb hidden in his turban.

That attack, shortly after the carefully planned attack on the American Embassy last month, raised doubts about whether the Taliban were interested in a peace agreement at all. It also raised suspicions among the Afghans of Pakistan’s involvement.

Mrs. Clinton met Mr. Rabbani’s son, Salahuddin, at a meeting with Afghan lawmakers, officials and advocates at the American Embassy in Kabul on Thursday morning, expressing her condolences even as she encouraged a continuation of the efforts his father began. “He was a brave man, trying to do the right thing,” she told him.

“We will make sure we continue his vision,” Mr. Rabbani replied.
846 2011-10-21 The Republican presidential candidate Herman Cain is facing questions from social conservatives over whether he opposes abortion rights under all circumstances after he was interviewed Wednesday evening by CNN's Piers Morgan.     ''I believe that ...
847 2011-10-21 PARIS -- A strike by workers at the Musee d'Orsay postponed the long-awaited reopening of the museum's newly renovated  galleries on Thursday. Some 34 employees, mostly security guards, staged the walkout to protest the fact that no additional wor...
848 2011-10-21 The Senate voted 74-26 on Thursday to confirm the nomination of John Bryson to be the next commerce secretary, ending a months-long struggle over President Obama's choice.     Mr. Obama nominated Mr.. Bryson to replace the outgoing secretary, Gary...
849 2011-10-21 A major study of nearly 360,000 cellphone users in Denmark found no increased risk of brain tumors with long-term use.     Although the data, collected from one of the largest-ever studies of cellphone use, are reassuring, the investigators noted ...
850 2011-10-22 Things could be worse, and they're getting worse by the day....
851 2011-10-22 Things could be worse, and they're getting worse by the day....
852 2011-10-22 Following the day's college football action from kickoff to the final whistle....
853 2011-10-22 Following the day's college football action from kickoff to the final whistle....
854 2011-10-22 Charles M. Conlon has been deemed "the greatest baseball photographer." Fred R. Conrad and Kerri MacDonald talked with Connie McCabe, a photograph conservator who worked on the second book of Mr. Conlon's pictures....
855 2011-10-22 The Drug Enforcement Administration took emergency action on Friday to ban three synthetic stimulants used to make products that are marketed at head shops and on the Web as “bath salts,” but are actually used as recreational drugs that mimic the effects of cocaine, LSD and methamphetamine.

The emergency measure places these substances — mephedrone, methylenedioxypyrovalerone (MDPV) and methylone — under the D.E.A.’s most restrictive category for at least a year, while they study whether they should be permanently banned. This classification is reserved for substances with high potential for abuse and no accepted use under medical supervision.

These products, sometimes called plant food, are sold in powder or crystal form under names like Bliss, Purple Wave, Vanilla Sky and Ivory Wave. Though not approved by the Food and Drug Administration for consumption, they have become increasingly popular, especially among teenagers and young adults, the D.E.A. said.

“These chemicals pose a direct and significant threat, regardless of how they are marketed, and we will aggressively pursue those who attempt their manufacture and sale,” Michele M. Leonhart, the agency’s administrator, said in a statement.

Some states have already banned bath salts, which typically sell for $25 to $50 for a 50-milligram packet. Some of the chemicals found in these products are related to an organic stimulant found in Arab and East African countries called khat, which is illegal in the United States.

Despite their innocuous sounding street names, doctors say these drugs are unusually dangerous. Users can experience severe, long-lasting paranoia — some have reported that symptom lasting for months — and bouts of extreme violence, sometimes self-inflicted. In one recent incident, a man broke into a monastery and stabbed a priest in Pennsylvania. In another, a West Virginia woman scratched at her own body repeatedly over the course of several days.
856 2011-10-22 The governing curators at Missouri gave the university chancellor, Brady Deaton, the authority to move the university out of the Big 12 if he decides that is in its best interest. Deaton said at a news conference that Missouri had provided information to the Southeastern Conference.
857 2011-10-22 The North Anna nuclear reactors in Mineral, the only ones shut down by the Aug. 23 earthquake on the East Coast, will probably be allowed to reopen within weeks, a senior official of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission said Friday. After a two-month, $21 million inspection, staff engineers told the commission at a two-hour briefing that the plant suffered only cosmetic damage. The limited damage led the plant’s operator, Dominion, and the commission to debate whether their standard for measuring a quake’s strength — based simply on ground motion — was the best one. That measure indicated that the ground motion on Aug. 23 exceeded what the reactors were designed for. But when engineers measured the quake by the total amount of energy it delivered, the quake was far too weak to produce significant damage. (The energy measure is based on both the shaking and its duration.) Most of the cosmetic damage found at the plant was limited to concrete, Dominion said.
858 2011-10-22 Regulators on Friday closed two banks in Georgia and one each in Florida and Colorado, raising to 84 the number of American banks that have failed this year. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation seized the four banks. The largest by far was Community Banks of Colorado, based in Greenwood, Colo., with $1.38 billion in assets and $1.33 billion in deposits. Also shuttered were Community Capital Bank, in Jonesboro, Ga.; Decatur First Bank, in Decatur, Ga.; and Old Harbor Bank, in Clearwater, Fla. By this time last year, regulators had shuttered 139 banks.
859 2011-10-22 PHOENIX (AP) — A lawsuit by Gov. Jan Brewer that accused the Obama administration of failing to enforce immigration laws or maintain control of her state’s border with Mexico was dismissed Friday by a federal judge.

In her ruling, Judge Susan Bolton of United States District Court in Phoenix said the governor’s claim that Washington had failed to protect Arizona from an “invasion” of illegal immigrants was a political question that was not appropriate for the court to decide.

Governor Brewer, a Republican, filed her countersuit after the Justice Department challenged Arizona’s immigration enforcement law. She was seeking a court order that would require the federal government to take extra steps, like erect more border fencing, to protect Arizona until the border was controlled.

The judge wrote that she also barred some of the governor’s claims because the issues had been dealt with in a 1994 case by Arizona and could not be litigated again. Court precedent also requires the dismissal of some claims, Judge Bolton wrote.

In a statement, Governor Brewer said she was not surprised by the ruling. “It is but the latest chapter in a story that Arizonans know all too well: The federal government ignores its constitutional and statutory duty to secure the border,” she said.

The Department of Justice issued a one-sentence statement saying it was pleased by Judge Bolton’s decision.

The department sued the State of Arizona last year in a bid to invalidate Arizona’s immigration enforcement law. Judge Bolton, who ruled in that case as well, put key parts of the law on hold, like a provision requiring police officers, while enforcing other laws, to question a person’s immigration status if officers had a “reasonable suspicion” that the person was in the country illegally.
860 2011-10-22 We directed dark thoughts toward the absent stars and turned to vent to a random partygoer, a real estate agent named Andrew Hunt. Where did he think Ms. Weaver might be?

“Dude!” he said. “My buddy is on jury duty this week with Sigourney Weaver!”

Afterward, we e-mailed Ms. Weaver’s publicist, Michelle Benson, to see if the actress was, in fact, on jury duty. Her e-mail contained one word: “True.”

Jury duty can be grueling, and though she couldn’t have known the thoughts we had on Wednesday night, we hoped that Ms. Weaver would forgive us.

The socialite and songwriter Denise Rich played the part of glamorous maître d’ at Cipriani Wall Street on Monday night, her trademark décolletage buried under ropes of diamonds as she greeted guests at the Angel Ball, a benefit for her cancer foundation.

“For once you look dignified!” her friend Richard Turley — “a Bronx socialite,” he told us — said to her. The singer Natalie Cole embraced Ms. Rich, a longtime friend.

“We’ve been buddies” for years, Ms. Cole said. “I mean, we’ve slept together.” Mr. Turley interjected to clarify: what she meant was that they had both slept on Ms. Rich’s boat.

Patti LaBelle performed before a crowd that included Solange Knowles, sister of Beyoncé. Ms. Knowles wore a stunning one-sleeved, columnar white shift dress dotted with pearls. She had planned to wear it to the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s costume ball in May, she said, but en route from London it was ensnared in customs.

Desirée Rogers, former social secretary at the Obama White House, sat, wearing a cloud of pink feathers, next to the model Naomi Campbell. We asked Ms. Campbell and her boyfriend, Vladislav Doronin, about a green house we had heard was being built for her. Ms. Campbell’s eyes flashed. “You’re not asking about the stupid eco-friendly house, are you?” she said. “It’s not true; this guy is just using my name to sell property. My lawyers are dealing with it right now.”

We worried that we had angered her, but Mr. Doronin saved us, showing us pictures on his BlackBerry of the Zaha Hadid-designed house he is actually building, in a forest near Moscow. The master bedroom was elevated, Seattle Space Needle-style, several stories above the rest of the house.

“How do you get up there?” Ms. Rogers asked.

A half-dozen brides stood in gowns at the New York Public Library on Monday night, six feet in heels, elbows jutting out with the petulance of Bridezillas. It was a fashion presentation at a wedding industry-only ball thrown by the Web site The Knot, and it looked like a mass wedding for a shelf of Barbie dolls, only no one invited the Kens.

The models trickled in beginning at 7:15, joining guests, like the famed cake baker Sylvia Weinstock, with difficulty. As one model spun through the revolving doors at the library’s entrance, her pendulous pearl earring flew off and disappeared. It was found momentarily in the four-foot train of the model behind her. Once the models were positioned in the center of the party, several ogling guests stumbled over them, high heels snagged in cathedral trains.

Randy Fenoli — a star of TLC’s “Say Yes to the Dress,” which takes place at the wedding-dress megastore Kleinfeld Bridal in New York — was also there, of course.

Today’s bride can go gothic, or even tattooed, he said: “Throw some crystals on that tattoo.” Mr. Fenoli has but one rule: “No flip-flops on your wedding day,” he said. “No flip-flops ever! Even on the beach.”

Even surrounded by enough frothy white tulle, rhinestones, pearls and lace for all the Kardashians’ weddings, we felt something was missing.

“Oh! The groom! Can we talk?” Mr. Fenoli said. “It’s not a bride’s wedding; it’s the couple’s wedding.” We felt a little better — for a moment. Then he added, “He is her No. 1 and best accessory.”
861 2011-10-22 And some is definitely intended for future generations. “Indeed,” Mr. Isaacson writes, “its success came not just from the beauty of the hardware but from the applications, known as apps, that allowed you to indulge in all sorts of delightful activities.” One that he mentions, which will be as quaint as Pong some day, features the use of a slingshot to launch angry birds to destroy pigs and their fortresses.

So “Steve Jobs,” an account of its subject’s 56 years (he died on Oct. 5), must reach across time in more ways than one. And it does, in a well-ordered, if not streamlined, fashion. It begins with a portrait of the young Mr. Jobs, rebellious toward the parents who raised him and scornful of the ones who gave him up for adoption. (“They were my sperm and egg bank,” he says.)

Although Mr. Isaacson is not analytical about his subject’s volatile personality (the word “obnoxious” figures in the book frequently), he raises the question of whether feelings of abandonment in childhood made him fanatically controlling and manipulative as an adult. Fortunately, that glib question stays unanswered.

Mr. Jobs, who founded Apple with Stephen Wozniak and Ronald Wayne in 1976, began his career as a seemingly contradictory blend of hippie truth seeker and tech-savvy hothead.

“His Zen awareness was not accompanied by an excess of calm, peace of mind or interpersonal mellowness,” Mr. Isaacson says. “He could stun an unsuspecting victim with an emotional towel-snap, perfectly aimed,” he also writes. But Mr. Jobs valued simplicity, utility and beauty in ways that would shape his creative imagination. And the book maintains that those goals would not have been achievable in the great parade of Apple creations without that mean streak.

Mr. Isaacson takes his readers back to the time when laptops, desktops and windows were metaphors, not everyday realities. His book ticks off how each of the Apple innovations that we now take for granted first occurred to Mr. Jobs or his creative team. “Steve Jobs” means to be the authoritative book about those achievements, and it also follows Mr. Jobs into the wilderness (and to NeXT and Pixar) after his first stint at Apple, which ended in 1985.

With an avid interest in corporate intrigue, it skewers Mr. Jobs’s rivals, like John Sculley, who was recruited in 1983 to be Apple’s chief executive and fell for Mr. Jobs’s deceptive show of friendship. “They professed their fondness so effusively and often that they sounded like high school sweethearts at a Hallmark card display,” Mr. Isaacson writes.

Of course the book also tracks Mr. Jobs’s long and combative rivalry with Bill Gates. The section devoted to Mr. Jobs’s illness, which suggests that his cancer might have been more treatable had he not resisted early surgery, describes the relative tenderness of their last meeting.

“Steve Jobs” greatly admires its subject. But its most adulatory passages are not about people. Offering a combination of tech criticism and promotional hype, Mr. Isaacson describes the arrival of each new product right down to Mr. Jobs’s theatrical introductions and the advertising campaigns. But if the individual bits of hoopla seem excessive, their cumulative effect is staggering. Here is an encyclopedic survey of all that Mr. Jobs accomplished, replete with the passion and excitement that it deserves.

Mr. Jobs’s virtual reinvention of the music business with iTunes and the iPod, for instance, is made to seem all the more miraculous (“He’s got a turn-key solution,” the music executive Jimmy Iovine said.) Mr. Isaacson’s long view basically puts Mr. Jobs up there with Franklin and Einstein, even if a tiny MP3 player is not quite the theory of relativity. The book emphasizes how deceptively effortless Mr. Jobs’s ideas now seem because of their extreme intuitiveness and foresight. When Mr. Jobs, who personally persuaded musician after musician to accept the iTunes model, approached Wynton Marsalis, Mr. Marsalis was rightly more impressed with Mr. Jobs than with the device he was being shown.

Mr. Jobs’s love of music plays a big role in “Steve Jobs,” like his extreme obsession with Bob Dylan. (Like Mr. Dylan, he had a romance with Joan Baez. Her version of Mr. Dylan’s “Love Is Just a Four-Letter Word” was on Mr. Jobs’s own iPod.) So does his extraordinary way of perceiving ordinary things, like well-made knives and kitchen appliances. That he admired the Cuisinart food processor he saw at Macy’s may sound trivial, but his subsequent idea that a molded plastic covering might work well on a computer does not. Years from now, the research trip to a jelly bean factory to study potential colors for the iMac case will not seem as silly as it might now.

Skeptic after skeptic made the mistake of underrating Steve Jobs, and Mr. Isaacson records the howlers who misjudged an unrivaled career. “Sorry Steve, Here’s Why Apple Stores Won’t Work,” Business Week wrote in a 2001 headline. “The iPod will likely become a niche product,” a Harvard Business School professor said. “High tech could not be designed and sold as a consumer product,” Mr. Sculley said in 1987.

Mr. Jobs got the last laugh every time. “Steve Jobs” makes it all the sadder that his last laugh is over.
862 2011-10-22 “You’re going to get a few wackos,” said Aaron Moses Miller, 25, a slender, unemployed man from Ridgewood, Queens, who had been in the park for 16 days. “You can’t help it in a population of this size.”

Mr. Miller, who is Jewish, said that he had not seen the man holding the anti-Semitic signs, but said: “If I had seen him, I would have said something to him. My name is Aaron Moses Miller.”

Jeff Smith, 41, part of the press team for Occupy Wall Street, assailed those who he said ascribed the views of one sign-holder to the entire movement.

“To put someone out there to say, ‘This is who the group is,’ is about as dishonest as you can be,” Mr. Smith, who is also Jewish, said. “It’s yellow journalism.”

And Marjorie Dove Kent, executive director of Jews for Racial and Economic Justice, which has taken part in the protests, said that the movement had a diffuse leadership and that individual protesters had indicated their condemnation of the sign-carrying man by shouting him down.

But much as the Tea Party movement initially grappled with accusations of racism, Occupy Wall Street has been consistently confronted with accusations of anti-Semitism. Several conservative Web sites and television programs have shown video of the sign-holder, as well as of a woman at an allied demonstration in Los Angeles who identified herself as a public school teacher and decried “Zionist Jews who are running the big banks and the Federal Reserve.”

These conservative critics have urged President Obama and Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House Democratic leader, to retract their expressions of support for the Wall Street protests.

“Democrats were quick to single out any instances of perceived extremism among Tea Party supporters,” Sean Spicer, the communications director of the Republican National Committee, said in a statement on Tuesday. “But with Occupy Wall Street, they turn a blind eye.”

An Oct. 13 article on the Web site of Commentary, a politically conservative magazine founded by the American Jewish Committee, though no longer affiliated with it, argued that “it isn’t just a few crackpots engaging in anti-Semitism.” The article said that the “main organizer behind the movement — Adbusters editor Kalle Lasn — has a history of anti-Jewish writing.”

Mr. Lasn did not return a message left on his Adbusters office voice mail in Vancouver, British Columbia. But Patrick Bruner, another member of the Occupy Wall Street press team, said the magazine Adbusters had helped prompt the protest movement with a call for action but otherwise had “not been active at all.” He said the Occupy Wall Street movement rejected any kind of racism or hatred, but also was “open source,” meaning that anyone could take part.

Jewish groups that have sensitive antennas for eruptions of bigotry have not criticized the protesters.

Abraham H. Foxman, national director of the Anti-Defamation League, urged the protest organizers to condemn any expressions of anti-Semitism, but said, “There are manifestations in the movement of anti-Semitism, but they are not expressing or representing a larger view.” He also pointed out that, according to his organization’s periodic polls, roughly one in six Americans believed Jews had too much power in Wall Street and the American government.

“So it’s not surprising that in a movement that deals with economic issues you’re going to get bigots that believe in this stereotype,” Mr. Foxman said. “The movement is not about Jews; it’s not about Israel. It’s about ‘the economy, stupid.’ ”
863 2011-10-22 A British private detective at the center of the phone hacking scandal that has shaken Rupert Murdoch’s media empire cited the MI5 file of a close friend of Princes William and Harry in notes he kept on his work for the tabloid The News of the World, according to a suit filed in London.

But the court papers, released to The New York Times, do not clearly indicate whether the detective, Glenn Mulcaire, accessed the highly classified intelligence file directly, was told of its contents or was simply noting its existence.

The documents, dated Sept. 23, accuse Mr. Mulcaire and the now-closed News of the World of invading the privacy of Guy Pelly, a London nightclub owner and a confidant of the princes. The defendants, the suit says, hacked Mr. Pelly’s cellphone, set up an e-mail address in his name and flew him to Las Vegas on false pretenses to trick him into revealing details about his royal friends.

But the most intriguing accusation relates to at least two references to Mr. Pelly’s MI5 profile in Mr. Mulcaire’s detailed records. He kept copious notes covering his conversations with his employers at the tabloid, his sources, his methods and the information he gleaned.

One reference, the suit said, was in an electronic file titled “Project Guy W. Pelly,” which “included his mobile number, his parents’ landline number, his parents’ address and a further reference to the MI5 profile.”
864 2011-10-22 Officials struggled to address the European debt crisis; the cause of the listeria outbreak linked to tainted cantaloupe was pinpointed; and Apple paid tribute to Steve Jobs with song and speech....
865 2011-10-22 McDonald’s said Friday that its third-quarter net income rose by 9 percent as it kept defying a tough economy and attracting more customers. But those diners might want to get ready to pay more.

McDonald’s, the world’s largest hamburger chain, has performed well throughout the recession and its aftermath. But it noted potential challenges like the rising cost of beef and higher labor costs, and hinted that it could raise menu prices for the third time this year.

“The economists say we are officially out of the recession, but it hardly feels that way,” Jim Skinner, the company’s chief executive, said in a conference call with analysts. He referred to McDonald’s gains as “hard won” victories.

The 9 percent rise in net income, to $1.51 billion, was McDonald’s ninth consecutive quarter of earnings gains. Earnings per share of $1.45 beat analysts’ expectations of $1.43. A 14 percent increase in revenue, to $7.17 billion, also beat the $7.02 billion predicted by analysts polled by FactSet.

McDonald’s shares rose $3.31, or 3.7 percent, to close at $92.32.

McDonald’s success has hinged on quickly adapting to customers’ changing tastes and reshaping itself as a hip and more healthful place to eat. It has added menu items like smoothies and oatmeal, remodeled restaurants and converted more locations to 24-hour operations. All those moves, the company says, have brought in more customers.
866 2011-10-22 “This is what people have been talking about since the World Cup was held in the United States in 1994 — is the U.S. a soccer nation? Clearly, it is,” said Michael Cohen, who was the executive producer for Major League Soccer and its marketing arm from 2001 to 2010. “You’ve got a whole generation of kids in their 20s, 30s and 40s who have grown up with soccer. And with the influx of immigrants coming to this country, soccer is their No. 1 sport. It is the perfect storm.”

It is difficult to compare the World Cup fees with broadcast rights packages for other major sports, because the terms are dissimilar. For example, ESPN, ABC and TNT will carry the N.B.A. through the 2015-16 season under eight-year contracts worth $7.4 billion that include hundreds of regular-season games, the playoffs and digital rights. ESPN is paying $125 million per year for television, radio, digital, international and marketing rights for college football’s Bowl Championship Series from 2011 to 2014.

Rights fees for the World Cup in the United States still trail by a wide margin the fees paid for the Olympics. NBC recently paid $4.38 billion for four Olympic Games through 2020, but the growing soccer market is not that mature.

“I think there is a dichotomy of interest in soccer in the U.S.,” said Marc Ganis, president of SportsCorp Ltd., a Chicago-based sports business consulting firm. “We have a growing interest in the top level of the international game — the English Premier League, the World Cup. We have not shown a dramatic increase in interest at the homegrown level. I suspect that is because of the quality of the game.”

Still, 18 million Americans play soccer, and the sport has found a comfortable niche in the sporting landscape, especially for its biggest events. The championship matches of the past two World Cups have drawn bigger American television audiences than the average World Series viewership in the corresponding years of 2006 and 2010.

The 2010 World Cup final between Spain and the Netherlands, shown in the afternoon in the United States, drew 24 million viewers on ABC and Univision — 10 million more than the average primetime audience on Fox for the San Francisco Giants’ five-game victory over the Texas Rangers in the 2010 World Series.

This time of year, soccer is as plentiful as football via online streaming and cable and satellite television. From Friday to Monday of this weekend, about 75 soccer matches will be available for viewing in the United States, featuring American college and professional teams and some of the world’s top club teams in England, Spain, Germany, Italy, Brazil, France, the Netherlands and Mexico.

After the women’s World Cup in Germany, even casual sports fans know forward Abby Wambach and goalkeeper Hope Solo, whose crossover appeal landed her on “Dancing With the Stars.” Forward Landon Donovan of the men’s national team is featured in a national Gatorade advertising campaign, and goalkeeper Tim Howard is a spokesman for Allstate insurance.

A decade ago, with television interest in the World Cup lagging, Major League Soccer’s marketing arm bought the English-language rights to the 2002 and 2006 World Cups for $40 million, paid production costs to have the games broadcast on ESPN and split advertising revenue with the network. On Friday, Fox paid 10 times that amount. (Telemundo’s higher fee reflected the greater World Cup interest among Spanish-speaking viewers.)

“In the U.S., the game has always spoken to all the hyphenated Americans — German, Italian, Mexican, etc.,” said the ESPN.com soccer columnist David Hirshey, who has published best-selling memoirs of Mia Hamm and David Beckham as executive editor of HarperCollins. “But now it crosses demographic lines, having been embraced by high-definition-TV-watching suburban teens and 20- to 40-year-old hipsters with disposable income.”

Fox, which said it was “truly honored,” scored a coup in wresting the 2018 and 2022 World Cups away from ESPN/ABC, which has broadcast soccer’s global championship since 1994. In the bidding process on Wednesday and Thursday in Zurich, where FIFA is based, ESPN raised its bid from $350 million to $400 million, two television executives said, but Fox went higher.

The World Cup matches will be in Russia in 2018, and in Qatar in 2022.

Fox’s bid adds the sport’s crown jewel to a soccer collection on its broadcast network and a cable network, Fox Soccer Channel, that already broadcasts the European Champions League, the world’s premier club competition, along with weekly English Premier League and Italian league matches.

Gaining the World Cup should also enhance the cable distribution of Fox Soccer, which is available in 40 million American homes, compared with 100 million for ESPN.

“This reflects on Fox’s part a commitment to be the primary source for broadcasting international soccer in the U.S.,” said Ganis, the sports consultant.
867 2011-10-22 Gov. Jay Nixon signed legislation on Friday repealing a contentious law that had limited online chats between teachers and students and had caused a judge to warn that it infringed on free-speech rights. The law, enacted this year, barred Missouri teachers from using Web sites that allow “exclusive access” with students or former pupils who are 18 or younger. The law generated an unexpected uproar, with teachers raising concerns that they would be barred from using popular social media sites like Facebook and Twitter that allow private messages. A judge temporarily blocked the law shortly before it was to take effect in August, saying it would have a “chilling effect” on free-speech rights. Mr. Nixon then added the law’s repeal to the agenda of a special legislative session that began in September.
868 2011-10-22 PHILADELPHIA — Does a month go by without some kind of premiere by the choreographer Alexei Ratmansky? In April the Bolshoi danced the world premiere of his three-act “Lost Illusions;” in May American Ballet Theater presented the world premiere of “Dumbarton,” and in June, its first New York performances of his full-length “Bright Stream”; in July the Mariinsky Ballet gave New York its first view of his “Anna Karenina” and “Little Humpbacked Horse”; and in September the Paris Opera Ballet gave the world premiere of “Psyché,” based on the Greek myth. On Thursday the Pennsylvania Ballet presented the North American premiere of Mr. Ratmansky’s “Jeu de Cartes.” It would be nice to think the guy took August off as a well-earned vacation, but I wouldn’t bank on it.

The “Jeu de Cartes” that the Pennsylvania Ballet is dancing this week at the Academy of Music in Philadelphia, as the centerpiece of a triple bill, was first danced by the Bolshoi in 2005. Its score is the one Stravinsky composed for a world premiere in 1937, choreographed by George Balanchine, in which poker became comic drama, and cards were dancers.

The Pennsylvania production includes a note from Mr. Ratmansky: “We are not card players; there will be no cards in this ballet. The meaning of the original title, which we have kept, may be interpreted as follows: to dance to music by Stravinsky is always a bit of a gamble — how not to lose count. We will go for broke!” And when the Bolshoi danced the ballet in London in 2006, “Go for Broke” was its title.

As that suggests, this “Jeu de Cartes” is a high-energy rush. It’s also full of many kinds of game playing. The 15 dancers enter not only from the wings but also through a central, gatelike space, down a small ramp and along a flat ledge — and they all use these areas to wait and observe what’s happening center stage.

The imagery includes playing dice on the floor; trotting while clasping invisible reins; displays of male virtuosity delivered with athletic or acrobatic display; and rolling on the floor too. The work’s most recurrent motif, for individual women, is a straight-legged, side-to-side teeter on point, with the dancer transferring her whole weight from toe to toe and back again — tentative but twinkling.

Principally it’s pure dance. The idea of games is pervasive. And though we don’t see cards, we feel as if we were in the thick of card playing. Group succeeds group like one hand of cards after another, forever being rearranged, and sometimes in rivalry. Some groupings recur — two male-female-male trios, batches of three or more men — but the main point seems to be near-constant change and renewal.
869 2011-10-22 Meyer, 23, a former freestyle standout at Harvard, established himself over the summer as the top American man in open-water swimming, performing well enough at the world championships in China to secure a spot on the 2012 United States Olympic team in the men’s 10-kilometer event.

Describing the appeal of the sport, Meyer said: “There’s something beautiful about man at his absolute breaking point. It hurts and it hurts and you keep pushing. Your body says no but your mind says yes.” He added, “It’s like a feeling of euphoria.”

Meyer’s affinity for pain surfaced early. At 8, he was on the swim team at the Y.M.C.A. in Glens Falls, N.Y., when one of his friends was elevated to a more accomplished group in which the swimmers trained longer and harder. Meyer’s mother, Shawn, recalled, “Alex said: ‘I want to swim in that group. I want to do more yardage.’ ”

Meyer’s parents were competitive swimmers. His father, Steve, an anesthesiologist, was a swimmer and diver at Hobart. Shawn, an academic adviser at Cornell, was on the women’s team at Georgia.

At Ithaca High School, Meyer was a two-time state champion in the 500-yard freestyle. But his Harvard years got off to an inauspicious start. As a freshman, he broke out in hives, received a diagnosis of mononucleosis, had wisdom teeth extracted, visited the hospital emergency room more than once after bicycle mishaps and landed on academic probation.

The source of his truest misery, though, was Life Sciences 1a.

“I got by in high school without ever having to study that much or work very hard, so Harvard and that class in particular were a rude awakening,” Meyer recalled in an e-mail message. “I really didn’t like the overzealous, cutthroat, competitive, premed freshmen that I found myself surrounded by in that class. It was miserable and their competitive nature (which was unfathomable to me in academics) made me want to try less.”

In conversations with his parents during this time, Meyer’s mother reassured him: “There’s always options. You can make a decision any day to shift course.”

Meyer dropped the class, and indeed stayed the course. As he told his mother, “I’m in it for the long haul.”

His grades improved — Meyer graduated in 2010 with a degree in evolutionary biology — but his coordination out of the water never did. Early in Meyer’s senior year, he broke his back while trying to make a catch in an Ultimate Frisbee game and spent almost two months in a brace.

He managed to resume swimming in time to earn all-American honors in the 1,650-yard freestyle. His Harvard teammate Sam Wollner, whom he doggedly chased for two years in the distance lane, was not surprised. He had borne daily witness to Meyer’s capacity to “outsuffer anyone,” as he described it.

Wollner recalled that Meyer took an almost demented delight in the high-mileage sets — grueling gut checks like 32 laps repeated 10 times with little rest in between — that drove other swimmers to take extended bathroom breaks.

“We’d do sets where we were testing our aerobic threshold, and some people, as it got harder, you could tell they wanted out of it,” Wollner said. “Alex got a little more ferocious, a little more intense about it.”

It takes a certain temperament to thrive in open water. The competitions are held in lakes, rivers and oceans in wildly varying conditions, all of which present physical, psychological and pelagic challenges. To excel requires a flexibility that has nothing to do with being double-jointed.

The best open-water swimmers are able to adapt to an environment that constantly changes. In transforming himself from a national-caliber pool swimmer to a world champion endurance athlete, Meyer has shown an extraordinary ability to persevere in the face of the worst adversity.

Paul Asmuth, who dominated open-water swimming in the 1980s, long before it was on the Olympic radar, said, “I’ve noticed that if something happens to Alex’s plan, he’s able to make a new plan and not get upset by it.”

Four years ago open-water swimming was a diversion for Meyer. When the 10-kilometer event was added to the Olympic program at the 2008 Summer Games in Beijing, he hardly noticed; he was too focused on the black line at the bottom of the Harvard pool.

At the United States Olympic trials in 2008 he competed in the 1,500-meter freestyle, his strongest event in the pool, and finished 34th out of 73 swimmers. If he was going to have an Olympic future, it would have to be at distances far greater than 1,500 meters. And it wouldn’t be in chlorinated water.

His switch to open-water racing did not come completely out of the blue. Meyer’s mother, who keeps a scrapbook of his newspaper clippings, recently came across an interview he did in high school in which he said his two major goals were to qualify for the Olympic trials and make a national open-water team.

Meyer vividly remembers his first open-water race, when he was a teenager. “They blew the bullhorn at the start of the race and people were kicking me in the face and swimming over me and I was swallowing a lot of salt water,” he said. “I had a mild panic attack. It was kind of a rude awakening.”

Once the initial wave of shock subsided, he embraced the physical contact.

“I like that it’s a much more intimate racing environment than a pool, where you’re separated from the other swimmers by lane lines,” Meyer said. “In open water, you’re literally banging up against the guy you’re competing against. I secretly have always wished I played a contact sport and had an outlet for that little bit of pent-up aggression. I love the physical battle. I feel like when I’m in a race, it’s not a gentleman’s club, it is war.”

Meyer was speaking in the office of the Harvard swim coach, Tim Murphy. Meyer had appeared like a draft; the coach looked up from a pile of papers on his desk and there he stood, ready to finalize their course of action for an afternoon trek to Walden Pond.

At 5 feet 11 inches and 155 pounds soaking wet, Meyer looks as if he could be knocked over by a wave. He has a moon-shape face and appears less menacing than a tiny gargoyle.

The 15-mile drive from Harvard’s Blodgett Pool to Walden Pond takes roughly 30 minutes and is good dry land training for an open-water competition. The course favored by Meyer — the Fresh Pond Parkway to Massachusetts Route 2 — is clogged with motorists jockeying for position, and he can count on being cut off by someone who will not give him so much as a backward glance.

Meyer was introduced to Walden Pond in the summer of 2008. He accompanied Wollner, his Harvard teammate, on a bike ride to and from Cambridge. Two flat tires could not puncture Meyer’s enthusiasm for the place.

“I tucked it into the back of my mind,” he said.

Meyer returned home after the 2009 world championships in Italy, his first big international open-water competition, eager to train in water that was not heated to 78 or 79 degrees, and thought of Walden Pond.

“It’s been my special place ever since,” he said.

The parking lot was nearly full when Meyer arrived for his workout. He wrapped a towel around his waist amid the cars and changed into his swimsuit. Although it was an unseasonably warm day, the water did not look inviting. “It’s hard to get in when I’m not always warmed up and the water’s so cold,” Meyer said.

Murphy, who is also the Olympic open-water coach, arrived with a kayak strapped to the roof of his car.

“Alex has always been sort of a work in progress,” he said as he unloaded his kayak. “His heart, his drive, his standards, his work ethic; those are the things you feed off as a coach.”

After helping Murphy launch the kayak, Meyer waded in after him. A man in his 50s appeared at Meyer’s side and said, “You want to race?”

The man took a couple of deep breaths and began furiously stroking toward Murphy, who was roughly 20 yards from shore. Meyer waited five seconds and began swimming. He reached the kayak first.

Murphy and Meyer turned and headed to the western shoreline while Meyer’s challenger returned to the shore and toweled himself off.

“I’m a little past my prime,” the man said by way of explaining his defeat.

Did he know who Meyer was? “I don’t know exactly who he is,” he said, “but I’ve seen him out here before.”

About an hour later Meyer was swimming along the eastern shoreline when a woman dressed in her wedding gown waded into the water near him. Her name was Katie Hardin and she spent several minutes posing for a photographer while her husband, Tray, stood on the beach and watched.

“This is kind of my wedding present to her,” the husband said, explaining that his bride of four days decided she wanted to pose in her dress at various Boston area landmarks before they returned home to Texas after their New England honeymoon.

The previous week, Meyer said, he had the pond virtually to himself. “I swam out to the middle and just popped my head up and took it all in for a second,” he said.

Another day, Meyer stuck his head out of the water and heard “The Star-Spangled Banner” playing in the distance. “I couldn’t tell if it was my imagination,” he said.

Meyer has pictured himself listening to “The Star-Spangled Banner” while standing on the awards podium in London. Winning an Olympic medal — preferably gold — was a dream he shared with Fran Crippen, another pool swimmer who took to the open water like a dolphin.

Crippen, a Philadelphian who was four years older, befriended Meyer, the new kid on the national team, in 2009. Crippen was an open book on the sport, and Meyer committed to memory all of his tips on strategy and technique.

A two-time national champion in the pool before becoming the American standard-bearer in open water, Crippen finished third in the 10-kilometer at the 2009 world championships and won silver medals in the event at the 2006 and 2010 Pan Pacific Championships.

The 2010 competition was held in Southern California, and Crippen most likely lost the gold medal when he doubled back during the race to check on Meyer, who was ill and struggling.

Two months later — a year ago Sunday — Crippen died during a 10-kilometer race contested in the United Arab Emirates. The water temperature was in the mid-to-high 80s, ideal only if you are floating lazily on your back.

Meyer, recovering from an appendectomy, attended the event in hopes of racing but ultimately could not. He led the search for Crippen, whose body was found just before the last buoy on the triangular course. An autopsy concluded that Crippen died of heat exhaustion and drowning.

Crippen, then, is never far from Meyer’s thoughts. Sometimes his mind plays tricks on him and he can feel Crippen beside him, matching him stroke for stroke.

“He affected me as a swimmer but even more as a person,” Meyer said.

“He was such a good son, brother, friend,” he added. “In the water he had this aura, like Michael Jordan.”

Like the woman in the wedding gown, Meyer, then, is on something of a memory-keeping mission. He carries a photograph of Crippen to every competition and takes a photo of the photograph at each site, as if to say, “Look, Fran was here.”

“I’m pursuing my lifelong dream for myself,” Meyer said, “but I’m doing it for Fran, too.”

Since Crippen’s death, Wollner said he has worried about Meyer’s intensity. “He verges on the edge of reckless,” Wollner said. “I only express concern now that I’m outside the sport. As someone who considers himself a recovering distance swimmer, I know what a huge sense of accomplishment it is to outlast everyone.”

The FINA world championships in Jinshan City Beach in July was the biggest and most challenging competition of Meyer’s career. He was defending his title in the 25-kilometer race, a non-Olympic event, which, because of its length, is considered the truest test of open-water excellence.

Meyer also was pursuing an Olympic berth in a 10-kilometer race. The top 10 finishers would qualify for the London Olympics. In water hot enough that Meyer described it as “borderline dangerous,” he placed fourth.

Would he swim the 25-kilometer race (15 ½ miles) in conditions eerily similar to those in Abu Dhabi on the day Crippen died? His coach and mother, who had traveled to China to support him, both expressed their concerns about the water temperature, which would reach a high above 85 degrees.

Meyer announced he was bowing out of the race, citing the unsafe conditions; only then did his mother resume breathing.

“I was sick to my stomach,” she said, “because I thought he was crazy enough to push it because he wanted to defend his title and puff his chest out. When he chose not to swim, I was prouder about that than the fourth-place finish, because that decision was about character and integrity and standing up for what’s right.”

Meyer said the decision should not have been his to make. “That’s why I’m so frustrated with FINA,” he said, referring to swimming’s international governing body. “Athletes shouldn’t be put in the position of having to stop themselves, because it goes against our grain. We’ve just kind of trained ourselves in an almost stubborn way to keep going.”

Meyer’s foray into the wilderness of the Olympics has been as enlightening as Thoreau’s time at Walden Pond. He said he was discovering much about himself, which would have pleased Thoreau, who once wrote:

“We should make our notch every day on our characters, as Robinson Crusoe on his stick. We must be at the helm at least once a day; we must feel the tiller-rope in our hands, and know that if we sail, we steer.”
870 2011-10-22 Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio signed an executive order on Friday that he said might have prevented the man accused of releasing dozens of tigers, lions and other animals this week from being allowed to keep the animals because of his history of animal cruelty and neglect.

The authorities say that the man, Terry Thompson, 62, of Zanesville, freed 56 exotic animals from their cages on Tuesday before fatally shooting himself in his driveway. Forty-nine of the animals, including 18 rare Bengal tigers and 17 lions, were subsequently cornered and shot by law enforcement officers, who said it was necessary to protect the public. Most of the animals had wandered no more than 500 yards from their cages.

Six other animals were taken to the Columbus Zoo and Aquarium, and one, a snow monkey, was believed to have been eaten by one of the large cats.

Since the incident, Mr. Kasich, a Republican, has been criticized for not extending an emergency order signed last year by his Democratic predecessor, Ted Strickland, that restricted ownership of such animals.

On Friday, Mr. Kasich, who called it “a very complicated issue,” said his staff had discovered within the past few days that state animal humane officers were empowered to arrest people if they found evidence of animal cruelty. Mr. Kasich said it was not clear why that power had not been exercised in the case of Mr. Thompson.
871 2011-10-22 All investors should ask how much they should trust their advisers. But for the wealthy, in particular, the case underlines the serious risks of investing in private placement deals. Whether they are set up to invest in real estate, private companies or particular types of securities, private placements are created to finance someone’s enterprise. That enterprise is usually undervalued or poised for growth. But it should be a given that it may not play out as planned.

Susan John, the current national chairwoman of the National Association of Personal Financial Advisors, said she served on the board with Mr. Spangler in the 1990s and had known him for 20 years. The organization says it prides itself on transparency.

“He was perhaps one of the strongest believers in standards for Napfa,” she said. “So it’s very difficult for me to see how he could have evolved into the person that these allegations would lead you to believe he had become.”

She said Mr. Spangler did a series of presentations showing that returns in private placements were better than in public companies for his clients, many of whom had become wealthy from stock in Microsoft and Starbucks.

In the F.B.I. agent’s affidavit, several of Mr. Spangler’s clients said that he had shown them documents saying they were putting their money in funds that would invest in publicly traded securities, but their money was put into private companies.

Because these private placements carry the risk that all the principal will be lost, most advisers recommend them only for their wealthiest clients, whose financial lives will not be affected by the loss. Mr. Spangler’s clients said in the affidavit that they told him they did not want to take any big risks with their money.

But even when clients agree to the risks, they need to look for red flags that the deal may not work or pay the returns they expect.

Perhaps the biggest one here was that Mr. Spangler was associated with the companies in which he invested clients’ money. Clients said they were not told that he was on the board of TeraHop Networks, the company that went out of business, and Tamarac Inc., which provides software for financial advisers.

With any legitimate private placement, the person offering it will provide a memorandum that discloses how the company is structured and how the promoters of the deal are paid. The memorandum should also lay out how a person’s money will be invested, what returns can be expected and what fees will be charged. Getting a lawyer or certified public accountant to read through this is crucial.

“You have to remember that the emphasis is on disclosure and disclosure only,” said Gerald Townsend, a certified public accountant and president of Townsend Asset Management in Raleigh, N.C. “If they put on Page 1 that ‘we’re crooks and we’re going to steal your money,’ they’ve disclosed. If they have a good securities attorney, they’re going to disclose things and hope you don’t read them.”

Other red flags, Mr. Townsend said, are not knowing where the money you are investing is being held, who the auditor is, whether you are personally liable if the investment fails and if the sponsor has a track record.

The onus is on investors, though, to understand what they are agreeing to. According to the affidavit, Mr. Spangler had some clients sign agreements that allowed him to change how their money would be invested. In particular, Mr. Spangler added a section in the revised document called “Illiquidity of Investments,” which stated that some of these investments might have to be made for a longer period of time to be profitable.

“It goes back to understanding what you’re signing,” said Elaine Scoggins, a director at Merriman, an investment advisory in Seattle. “Ask a lot of questions if you don’t understand. There’s always the option of getting a second opinion.”

For people who lose money in private placements, there is little good news. The recovery process will be slow and there is no guarantee on how much an investor will get back.

Kent L. Johnson, a venture capitalist who is president of KLJ Consulting, is the court-appointed receiver for the Spangler Group. He said nearly all of the assets that had not been lost were invested in various private companies, and it could take up to three years to unwind those investments.

He said he hoped to recover about 50 percent of the $68 million that he estimated remained, at least on paper. That would then be distributed to the 80 investors on a pro rata basis.

“It’s just going to take some time to allow those companies to mature and maximize their value,” Mr. Johnson said. “If you try to liquidate them too early it wouldn’t be worth as much.”

As painful as this wait will be for Spangler investors, this is an average length of time and a decent rate of recovery. Robert P. Gray, partner in the forensic litigation group at ParenteBeard, an accounting and advisory firm, said investors with the best chance of recovering money were the ones who had kept detailed records — assuming those records were not fabricated.

“When the wheels come off the car, it’s going to be a lot more difficult to go out and get the documentation and figure out what you can go after,” he said.

In these cases, a good lawyer can also help you find out if there are other assets to go after, said Stan Twardy, a partner at Day Pitney and a former United States attorney for Connecticut. “Were there other people out there? Were there aiders and abettors? Is there insurance out there?” Mr. Twardy asked. “That’s where a good lawyer could make sure all potential pockets are explored.”

Chances are those pockets are not going to be as deep as investors hope.
872 2011-10-22 A coalition of seven American companies filed the trade case against China on Wednesday. They accused Chinese manufacturers of obtaining billions of dollars in Chinese government subsidies to help them buy market share in the United States, and of dumping solar panels in the United States at prices that did not fully cover the cost of manufacturing and distributing them.

Their petition to the Commerce Department in Washington and a related federal agency, the International Trade Commission, seeks tariffs “well in excess of 100 percent” to offset dumping, plus additional unspecified tariffs to offset the suspected subsidies.

The coalition responded quickly to the Chinese criticism. “The Chinese government’s claims that our actions are improper and protectionist, and that its illegal subsidies and massive dumping of solar product are helping the global economy and the environment, are absurd,” said Gordon Brinser, the chief executive of SolarWorld Industries America, the lead company in the coalition. “China is one of the biggest trade protectionists in the world.  In the solar industry, China is gutting manufacturing and jobs here in America and abroad while China’s solar industry pollutes its own people. The accusations have no basis in fact.”

The United States government has 20 days from the filing of the petition to decide whether to take the case, but the law gives it little discretion to reject it. A preliminary ruling is likely by March on the subsidies claim and by May on the dumping claim.

The Commerce Department and the I.T.C. must use narrow criteria set by Congress that give little discretion to either agency except on the question of whether a domestic industry has suffered significant injury from imports. The American solar panel industry has been laying off thousands of workers and closing factories. If the agencies pursue the case, final rulings could take six months or longer.

The Chinese ministry’s statement barely addressed the substance of the industry’s complaint, mentioning only in passing that Chinese policies were “in line with World Trade Organization rules.”

The ministry also made a clear plea for environmentalists to take its side.

“The development of the solar energy industry is a key measure of the Chinese government to address the challenges of climate change and energy security,” the statement said. “The United States has no reason to criticize other countries’ efforts to try to improve humanity’s environment — rather, it should join together with other countries to strengthen cooperation in the field of solar energy, and join together to face the challenges of climate change and the environment.”

So far, environmental groups in the United States have said little publicly in response to the solar panel trade case. Many environmental groups have advocated the creation of a strong American clean energy industry, which could improve the odds that Congress will continue to approve subsidies for alternative energy.

But many environmentalists also advocate the widest possible installation of solar panels as an alternative to burning fossil fuels. And toward that end, Chinese manufacturers have helped drive down the wholesale price of solar panels from $3.30 a watt in late 2008 to $1 to $1.20 a watt now.

The Chinese statement highlighted a study completed in August for an American trade group, the Solar Energy Industries Association, whose members include Chinese companies. The study calculated that the United States imported $1.4 billion worth of solar panels and other solar products from China last year, but exported solar factory equipment and raw materials valued at $1.69 billion to $1.98 billion to China.

But SolarWorld Industries America, the lead company in the trade filing against China, has pointed out that shipments of Chinese solar panels to the United States surged to $1.6 billion in the first eight months of this year. Meanwhile, American exports of factory equipment and raw materials have weakened as investment in Chinese factories has started to slow and as China has built its own industries to make these products.

Chinese companies are not the only ones unhappy about the American solar panel manufacturers’ case. Many American installers of solar panels are hostile. Mike Hall, the chief executive of Borrego Solar, a solar project developer based in Oakland, Calif., said, “One-hundred percent tariffs would have a massive effect, and the market in the U.S. would screech to a halt.”

World Trade Organization rules strictly ban the use of subsidies by a government to aid its export industries. W.T.O. rules also allow antidumping cases to be pursued within member countries, but do not encourage them.
873 2011-10-22 Moshe Halbertal, a philosophy professor at Hebrew University of Jerusalem, framed the issue similarly. “Those things are in the DNA of the culture,” he said of the religious teachings about ransoming captives. “It’s a sentiment that can’t be measured in exact legal or judicial terms. It plays a role in those moments of perplexity. You fall back on your basic identity. As a Jew, as an Israeli, what do I do?”

From its initial depiction in Genesis, the admonition to redeem captives reappears in the books of Leviticus and Nehemiah, as well as in the Talmud, Shulhan Arukh and writings of Maimonides. Among the ancient commentators, as well as among Israelis today, debate has persisted over whether pidyon shvuyim is an absolute value.

A passage in the Talmudic volume of Gittin, anticipating the recent voices of Israelis critical of the Shalit deal, cautions, “We do not redeem captives for more than their worth, so that enemies will not dedicate themselves to take other people captive.”

The traumas of Jewish history have provided innumerable opportunities for reconciling the tension between redemption and extortion. Throughout the Middle Ages, Jews who traveled as merchants and traders were frequently kidnapped by pirates or highway bandits. During the Holocaust, German forces routinely threatened to destroy Jewish communities unless the residents paid a pre-emptive ransom.

As Bradley Burston wrote last week in the Israeli newspaper Haaretz, over the past 54 years, the nation has freed a total of 13,509 Arab prisoners in exchanges that brought home 16 captive Israeli soldiers — a ratio of roughly 800 to 1.

With such an imbalance, pidyon shvuyim has been both a cherished and a contested belief. A prominent German rabbi taken captive in the 14th century, Meir ben Baruch, instructed his followers not to pay a ransom, which he feared would be onerously high, and ultimately was killed. Israel was torn apart in the 1950s by a libel trial involving Rudolf Kasztner, a Jewish activist in Hungary who had paid cash, gold and jewels to the Nazi officer Adolf Eichmann in 1944 to save about 1,600 Jews headed for death camps. So controversial were Mr. Kasztner’s actions that he was assassinated by a fellow Israeli more than a decade after the war.

While Israelis have widely believed that sovereignty and military might ended the need for paying ransoms, the Shalit deal has proven otherwise. It was approved by a prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, who had repeatedly written against what he termed “terrorist blackmail” earlier in his political career.

“The Zionist diagnosis, the post-Holocaust diagnosis, was that powerlessness invites victimization,” said Michael Berenbaum of the American Jewish University in Los Angeles, a prominent Holocaust historian. “What’s intriguing here is that power has not resolved Israel’s vulnerability.”

Indeed, as the Jewish ethicist Elliot N. Dorff pointed out, contemporary Israel is vulnerable in ways that the small, scattered communities of the Diaspora were not. It has its own enemy prisoners to be demanded in a trade. The Shalit negotiations took place in a constant media spotlight, tracking not just five years of failed deal making between Israel and Hamas but the tableau of Sergeant Shalit’s parents sitting in a protest tent outside Mr. Netanyahu’s office.

For all the practical, pragmatic, geopolitical calculations that went into the final deal, it also benefited from the endorsement of a leading Sephardic rabbi, Ovadia Yosef, the spiritual leader of the Shas Party. With his approval, the Shas members in Mr. Netanyahu’s cabinet voted for the deal. And, in an unspoken, little-noticed way, religious tradition informed a real-world decision.

“The whole issue of redeeming captives,” as Mr. Dorff put it, “has not been a theoretical one.”
874 2011-10-22 Verizon said it sold two million iPhones during the quarter. It declined to give the number of iPhone 4S’s it sold; that device became available after the quarter ended. Executives did say they sold out of their supply of iPhone 4S’s on the first day the phones were available for sale, Oct. 14. The phones have been on back order since then.

In its earnings report, AT&T revealed that it had activated 2.7 million iPhones during the quarter, and sold 1 million iPhone 4S’s after the quarter ended.

Verizon revealed that 20 percent of its iPhone customers jumped over from rival carriers and 80 percent were current customers upgrading their handsets.

Analysts said Verizon’s robust catalog of Android smartphones, tablets and mobile hot spots, particularly those compatible with the company’s next-generation wireless network, known as LTE, helped sharpen the company’s edge over AT&T. Of the 5.6 million smartphones that Verizon sold this quarter, 1.4 million were LTE devices.

“They haven’t needed the iPhone for years while AT&T had it, and this is no different,” said Rick Franklin, an analyst at Edward Jones, a financial services firm.

Those new additions, combined with profit margins on those customers and a low rate of defections among its current customer base, ushered the company into a “stunningly profitable quarter,” Mr. Franklin said.

In addition, the sale of those devices, which require expensive data plans to use them, helped nudge the amount of money the company makes per subscriber up 2.4 percent, to $54.89, over the same period a year earlier.

During the third quarter, which ended on Sept. 30, Verizon’s profit rose to $1.38 billion, or 49 cents a share, up from $659 million, or 23 cents a share, in the third quarter of last year. Adjusted earnings for the quarter, excluding certain items, were 56 cents a share, compared with 55 cents a share in the previous quarter. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters expected that the company would report 55 cents a share for adjusted earnings.

Revenue rose 5.4 percent, to $27.9 billion, during the quarter, compared with $26.5 billion during the same period a year earlier, the company said.

After the announcement of the results, shares rose modestly, closing up 32 cents at $37.42.

The landline portion of Verizon’s business, which includes its business and FiOS offerings, did not fare as well, dipping 1.3 percent, to $10.15 billion. The company attributed that decline to the damage caused by Hurricane Irene as well as to the two-week employee strike during August. The financial fallout from both events cost the company $250 million, executives said.

In a call to investors and analysts on Friday morning, Francis J. Shammo, the chief financial officer at Verizon, said that the company was looking forward to a robust fourth quarter. “We will compete extremely heavily,” he said. “And when we compete head to head, we generally win.”
875 2011-10-22 The Drug Enforcement Administration took emergency action on Friday to ban three synthetic stimulants used to make products that are marketed at head shops and on the Web as ''bath salts,'' but are actually used as recreational drugs that mimic th...
876 2011-10-22 Stocks rallied Friday after several large United States companies reported solid third-quarter earnings and as hope mounted that a weekend meeting would bring European leaders closer to easing the region’s debt troubles.

Shares of McDonald’s rose 3 percent after the company reported a 9 percent increase in income. The results beat analysts’ expectations and represented the ninth straight quarter of gains for McDonald’s.

Shares in Harman International Industries, the maker of audio equipment, jumped 18 percent, the most in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, after the company’s income far exceeded analysts’ expectations.

The encouraging corporate news was in line with recent signs that the United States economy strengthened in September after a very weak summer. On Friday the government said unemployment fell last month in half of the states and was unchanged in 11. That’s much better than August, when unemployment rose in 26 states.

The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 267 points, or 2.3 percent, to 11,808.79. The Dow is now up 2 percent from the start of 2011. Before the surge on Friday, it was down again for the year.
877 2011-10-23 Apple posted a video of a tribute to Steven P. Jobs, the company's co-founder, that took place last week at the company's campus in Cupertino, Calif....
878 2011-10-23 Apple posted a video of a tribute to Steven P. Jobs, the company's co-founder, that took place last week at the company's campus in Cupertino, Calif....
879 2011-10-23 The opening weekend ticket-sales total for that movie has been the biggest in history for a horror film, not accounting for inflation....
880 2011-10-23 The opening weekend ticket-sales total for that movie has been the biggest in history for a horror film, not accounting for inflation....
881 2011-10-23 In internal memorandums, published papers and private conversations with Jay Keasling, SynBERC’s director, Dr. Rabinow said that he outlined practical methods to improve security and preparedness, but that his recommendations were largely ignored.

In March 2010, the National Science Foundation reported that some parts of SynBERC’s research on security and risk “appear to be primarily observational in nature rather than proactive and developmental.” The foundation appeared to place some of the blame on Dr. Rabinow, who was paid about $723,000 over five years, and said that “a change in leadership will be necessary to facilitate significant progress.”

Six months after that recommendation, Dr. Rabinow was replaced by Drew Endy, SynBERC’s strategic director and an assistant professor of bioengineering at Stanford. Dr. Rabinow stayed on at SynBERC as a researcher until July, when he resigned. Three of his doctoral students also left their research positions at SynBERC.

Dr. Rabinow said in an interview that he resigned because he was fed up with what he described as SynBERC’s scientists’ indifference toward their “responsibility to larger society, which is funding them, by entrusting them to manipulate life.” The center includes scientists from the University of California, San Francisco; Stanford; Harvard; the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; and Prairie View A&M University in Texas.

“It had begun to worry me how profoundly irresponsible these guys are,” Dr. Rabinow said. “There are possibilities of all kinds of nefarious things happening. There is no reason that someone couldn’t modify a virus; you could release it on an airplane or subway, and it could have profound terror effects.”

Dr. Keasling disputed the account of Dr. Rabinow, who he said had failed to do his job.

“Paul failed in two realms: actively communicating what he wanted to do and actively carrying them out,” said Dr. Keasling, a professor in the chemical engineering and bioengineering departments at Berkeley and the chief executive of the United States Department of Energy’s Joint BioEnergy Institute, which is devoted to biofuel research. “It became clear over time that he wasn’t going to do the job.”

Kevin Costa, SynBERC’s administrative director, said officials wanted to implement security proposals but lacked the leadership to do so.

“We were always interested in doing those things, but there wasn’t a champion to step up — whether it be Jay Keasling or Paul Rabinow — and lead those projects,” Mr. Costa said. “I think the bioscientists were looking to Paul to lead the way, and he was waiting for the bioscientists to show more enthusiasm.”

Mr. Costa said Dr. Rabinow never produced a practical handbook written in a way that the project’s scientists or industry partners could understand. Further, Mr. Costa said, private companies participating in the project had asked Dr. Rabinow and his team to provide practical advice on how to communicate with the public in case of a disaster — which, Mr. Costa said, never materialized.

Dr. Rabinow previously held a fellowship from the National Science Foundation to study molecular biology. He also has served as a visiting professor at the London School of Economics.

He said one crucial area of concern was that SynBERC scientists possessed the technology to determine which DNA sequences are needed to modify genes and create novel functions. These sequences are stored in public databases and can be generated by private companies or academic facilities that synthesize genes.

Federal laws prohibit the transfer of toxins and pathogenic microorganisms. But Mr. Rabinow is concerned that hackers or rogue scientists could acquire the seemingly benign DNA sequences and build a deadly virus.

“DNA synthesis companies have no way of currently telling, once the sequences are put together, what the result will be,” Dr. Rabinow said. “Somebody could manufacture pathogens that are dangerous to the environment.”

SynBERC’s leaders did not take the threat seriously enough, said Anthony Stavrianakis, one of Mr. Rabinow’s graduate students who also resigned from the center. “Given the spread of know-how, technology, hacking culture, all set within a changing geopolitics, simply asserting that ‘everything is under control,’ ” as SynBERC has, “is not true,” Mr. Stavrianakis wrote in an e-mail.

SynBERC says that the DNA and proteins used in its research are the same as those used in biological studies since the 1970s and do not pose a new biological or chemical threat.

Dr. Keasling also said that synthetic biologists diligently police themselves.

“Yes, there are going to be risks, but we are getting out in front of it,” he said. At the same time, he added, the notion of a terrorist using a company to acquire and customize genetic sequences is “kind of far-fetched.”

Dr. Rabinow said that his work was not difficult to understand and that it was not his responsibility to produce a communication plan for the public. “I can’t be blamed for that,” he said.

Maria Zacharias, a spokeswoman for the National Science Foundation, declined to address specific questions about the disagreement at SynBERC or the underlying reasons for recommending a change in leadership in security. But she said the foundation meets every quarter with SynBERC’s researchers to discuss progress on issues like biosafety and biosecurity.
882 2011-10-23 “Those programs are so popular and so few in number that the odds are against you, generally,” Ms. Whitley said.

The diversity of the system is a result of years of changes based on the concept of parental choice, the idea that parents will choose good schools, allowing them to expand, while bad schools will lose students and close.

But there is a fatal flaw in applying market forces to education, said Peg Tyre, author of the recent book “The Good School: How Smart Parents Get Their Kids the Education They Deserve.” Parents are not well equipped to select schools and often act on inadequate information, she said.

“We know more about how to select an air-conditioner than we do about selecting a school,” Ms. Tyre said.

That is where private consultants like Ms. Whitley come in.

Ms. Whitley made it her job two years ago to find the right school for her daughter, who is now in first grade, and she thought about how helpful it would have been to have someone guide her through the process.

“I wasn’t even going to do it,” she said. “I thought, ‘Who is going to pay for something that I did for free?’ But it wasn’t free when you look at the amount of time and effort I spent on digging through all this information.”

So Ms. Whitley rented a space at a Park District building and gave her first workshop last fall. About 40 people showed up, and a small business was born.

On a sunny Saturday afternoon last month, Ms. Whitley met with Donna Bracey, a mother who recently started PREP Chicago, to exchange advice. PREP Chicago is similar to Ms. Whitley’s service but also includes a preparation program for the specialty schools’ admissions testing.

“We’re like a Kaplan for 4-year-olds,” Ms. Bracey said, referring to the company known for preparing high school students for the ACT and SATs. “It sounds kind of crazy. But we’re really just responding to the situation at hand. ”

The 12-week PREP program covers basic kindergarten skills like numbers, colors, sounds and shapes, as well as “soft” skills like listening, following directions and overcoming anxiety with strangers.

Abigayil Joseph, head of the school district’s Office of Academic Enhancement, which handles specialty school admissions, said testing was a way of “getting the right students in the right seats.”

But “you can’t prep for true gifted potential,” Ms. Joseph said when asked about PREP’s program.

Noah Sobe, a professor of cultural and education policy studies at Loyola University whose child attends one of the specialty schools, said he was concerned about the emergence of public-school consultants.

“It makes me uncomfortable because it does take us some ways away from the purposes for which American public schools were set up,” and provides “tools that parents might use to game the system,” Mr. Sobe said.

Traditionally, parents enrolled their children in the public school nearest their home or sought out a private school. That changed in Chicago nearly 20 years ago with the introduction of magnet schools, which were established in response to a desegregation consent decree that required the district to racially integrate its schools.

Magnets and selective-enrollment schools are indeed more integrated than neighborhood schools, but in recent years the racial balance has fluctuated. In the past five years, the proportion of magnet school children who are black has decreased almost 10 percentage points, and the proportion of children in classic schools who are white has risen roughly 9 percentage points.

The consent decree was lifted in 2008, but Mr. Sobe said the district would need to keep a close eye on the racial balance in these sought-after schools, or “we could be fit for another desegregation order in 10 or 15 years.”

Rebecca Labowitz, the mother of a child at a gifted school and the author of the popular schools blog CPS Obsessed, said parents looking for an edge in getting their children into a highly desirable school might be out of luck. For one thing, there is that lottery for the majority of the specialty schools.

“You take what you get and you might get nothing, and that doesn’t really feel like choice to a parent,” Ms. Labowitz said.

But, she said, “There still is a great need for parents to share information about schools. In this system, information is power.”
883 2011-10-23 Sergio García shot a seven-under 64 and leads by eight shots after the third round of the Castello Masters in Castellón, Spain. García has gone almost three years without a title.

¶ Justin Leonard chipped in three times for birdies in a stretch of five holes to help salvage a two-under 70. That gave him a share of the lead with the PGA Tour rookie Kevin Chappell going into the final round of the Children’s Miracle Network Classic at Disney in Lake Buena Vista, Fla. Webb Simpson is one shot ahead of Luke Donald as the two battle for the tour’s money title.

¶ Top-ranked Yani Tseng shot a five-under 67 for a two-shot lead over Anna Nordqvist going into the final round of the L.P.G.A. Taiwan Championship. Tseng, 22, leads the L.P.G.A. with six victories this season.
884 2011-10-23 Is iPod sound quality better or worse than a basic home stereo system?

Worse. The MP3 standard ruined high fidelity. It’s possible to upload CD-quality onto the iPod. But most people opt for the default, lousy quality of MP3 and M4A compression. An entire generation has grown up never knowing high fidelity, never hearing what the artists heard in the studio when they were recording. This is a real shame.

In your book “This Is Your Brain on Music,” you say music works like a drug. Say more.

Listening to music with others causes the release of oxytocin, a chemical associated with feelings of trust and bonding. That’s partly why music listeners become so connected to the artists they like. Plus, the nucleus accumbens — the brain’s well-known pleasure center — modulates levels of dopamine, the so-called feel-good hormone. (This same brain structure is active when people have sex, or when cocaine addicts take cocaine.)

Lots of people use music for emotional regulation. It’s similar to the way people use drugs such as caffeine and alcohol: they play a certain kind of music to help get them going in the morning, another kind to unwind after work. Brain surgeons perform their most concentration-intensive procedures while music plays in the background.

iPods change the way we “share” music. For one thing, we don’t listen together. So?

Music listening used to be an activity that we did with great ceremony. We’d invite friends over and sit down, pass the album cover around, study the artwork. And when the record started, we’d listen intently together and do nothing else. In short: music listening was deeply social. The iPod has turned music listening into a mostly solitary experience.

iPod Shuffle lets us listen to music in more or less random order. Does this make any difference in how we listen?

Shuffle has given us a new way of listening: mashes, or songs that we might not otherwise put together. When it works, it’s fabulous — we hear Billie Holiday followed by Jimi Hendrix and we can hear the connection between them. But when it doesn’t work it’s disorienting, pulling us out of the hypnotic reverie that good music programming induces.

iPod owners tend to download singles instead of albums. What is the effect of that?

An obvious loss: the album. For decades, artists assembled and sequenced songs to make a larger musical statement, the height of which resulted in concept albums, from Pink Floyd’s “Dark Side of the Moon” to Green Day’s “American Idiot.” Breaking an album up into singles disrupts the artists’ original intention for the work. Also, we tend to lose the opportunity to discover songs that don’t jump out at first.

Any science on why certain songs get stuck in our heads?

Scientists call them earworms. We don’t really know anything about the why of them, but we know something about the what. Usually they’re songs that are melodically and rhythmically simple — most people don’t have the “Ring” cycle stuck up there — and it’s usually just a short loop.

How do we get rid of those songs?

The tried-and-true way is to think of another song and hope that pushes out the first one. Here: think of “It’s a Small World After All.”
885 2011-10-23 It’s a surprising contradiction. Is the confluence of these two movements a mere historical accident? Or are the two trends related?

Other nations seem to face the same challenge: either inclusive, or economically just. has maintained much more economic equality but is struggling greatly with inclusiveness and discrimination, and is far less open to minorities than is the United States.

European countries have done a better job of protecting workers’ salaries and rights but have been reluctant to extend the benefits of their generous welfare state to new immigrants who look and act differently from them. Could America’s lost enthusiasm for income redistribution and progressive taxation be in part a reaction to sharing resources with traditionally excluded groups?

“I do think there is a trade-off between inclusion and equality,” said Gary Becker, a professor of economics at the and a Nobel laureate. “I think if you are a German worker you are better off than your American equivalent, but if you are an immigrant, you are better off in the U.S.”

PROFESSOR Becker, a celebrated free-market conservative, wrote his Ph.D. dissertation (and first book, “The Economics of Discrimination”) to demonstrate that racial discrimination was economically inefficient. American business leaders seem to have learned that there is no money to be made in exclusion: bringing in each new group has simply created new consumers to court. If you can capture nearly three-quarters of the economy’s growth — as the top 1 percent did between 2002 and 2006 — it may not be worth worrying about gay marriage or skin color.

“I think we have become more meritocratic — educational attainment has become increasingly predictive of economic success,” Professor Becker said. But with educational attainment going increasingly to the children of the affluent and educated, we appear to be developing a self-perpetuating elite that reaps a greater and greater share of financial rewards. It is a hard-working elite, and more diverse than the old white male Anglo-Saxon establishment — but nonetheless claims a larger share of the national income than was the case 50 years ago, when blacks, Jews and women were largely shut out of powerful institutions.

Inequality and inclusion are both as American as apple pie, says Jerome Karabel, a professor of sociology at the , and author of about the history of admission to Harvard, Yale and Princeton. “I don’t think any advanced democracy is as obsessed with equality of opportunity or as relatively unconcerned with equality of condition,” he says. “As long as everyone has a chance to compete, we shouldn’t worry about equality. Equality of condition is seen as undesirable, even un-American.”

The long history of racial discrimination represented an embarrassing contradiction — and a serious threat — to our national story of equal opportunity. With Jim Crow laws firmly in place it was hard to seriously argue that everyone had an equal chance. Civil rights leaders like the Rev. Dr. were able to use this tradition to draw support to their causes. “Given our culture of equality of opportunity, these kinds of rights-based arguments are almost impossible to refute,” Professor Karabel said. “Even in today’s conservative political climate, opponents of gay rights are losing ground.”

The removal of traditional barriers opened up the American system. In 1951 blacks made up less than 1 percent of the students at America’s colleges. Today they make up about 8 percent. At the same time, America’s elite universities are increasingly the provinces of the well-to-do. “Looking at the data, you see that the freshman class of our top colleges are more and more made up of the children of upper- and upper-middle-class families,” said Thomas J. Espenshade of Princeton, a sociologist.

Even the minority students are more affluent, he noted; many of them are of mixed race, or the children of immigrants or those who benefited from affirmative action.

Shamus Khan, a sociologist at Columbia and the author of a book about St. Paul’s, the prep school, agreed that there had been a change in the composition of the elite. “Who is at elite schools seems to have shifted,” he said. “But the elite seem to have a firmer and firmer hold on our nation’s wealth and power.”

Still the relatively painless movement toward greater diversity should not be dismissed as mere window dressing.

“After the reform of 1965, this country went from being the United States of Europe to being the United States of the World. All with virtually no violence and comparatively little trauma,” Professor Karabel said. This is no small thing, particularly when you compare it to the trauma experienced by many European societies in absorbing much lower percentages of foreign-born citizens, few of whom have penetrated their countries’ elites.

Moreover, inequality has grown partly for reasons that have little or nothing to do with inclusion. Almost all advanced industrial societies — even — have become more unequal. But the United States has become considerably more unequal. In Europe, the rights of labor have remained more central, while the United States has seen the rise of identity politics.

“There is much less class-based organization in the U.S,” said Professor Karabel. “Race, gender and sexual orientation became the salient cleavages of American political life. And if you look at it — blacks, Hispanics and women have gained somewhat relative to the population as a whole, but labor as a category has lost ground. The groups that mobilized — blacks, Hispanics, women — made gains. But white male workers, who demobilized politically, lost ground.”

One of the groups to become mobilized in response to the protest movements of the 1960s and early 1970s was the rich. Think tanks dedicated to defending the free-enterprise system — such as the and the — were born in this period. And it is not an accident that the right-wing advocate held a national rally on the anniversary of King’s “I Have a Dream” speech in front of the Lincoln Memorial. Republicans now defend cuts for the richest 2 percent using arguments and language from the civil rights movements: insisting that excluding the richest earners is unfair.

Removing the most blatant forms of discrimination, ironically, made it easier to justify keeping whatever rewards you could obtain through the new, supposedly more meritocratic system. “Greater inclusiveness was a precondition for greater economic stratification,” said Professor Karabel. “It strengthened the system, reinvigorated its ideology — it is much easier to defend gains that appear to be earned through merit. In a meritocracy, inequality becomes much more acceptable.”

THE term “meritocracy” — now almost universally used as a term of praise — was actually coined as a pejorative term, appearing for the first time in 1958, in the title of a satirical dystopian novel, “The Rise of the Meritocracy,” by the British Party leader Michael Young. He warned against the creation of a new technocratic elite in which the selection of the few would lead to the abandonment of the many, a new elite whose privileges were even more crushing and fiercely defended because they appeared to be entirely merited.

Of the European countries, ’s politics of inequality and inclusion most resemble those of the United States. Even as inequality has grown considerably, the British sense of economic class has diminished. As recently as 1988, some 67 percent of British citizens proudly identified themselves as working class. Now only 24 percent do. Almost everybody below the Queen and above the poverty line considers himself or herself “middle class.”

still has robust protections for its workers and one of the healthiest economies in Europe. Children at age 10 are placed on different tracks, some leading to university and others to vocational school — a closing off of opportunity that Americans would find intolerable. But it is uncontroversial because those attending vocational school often earn as much as those who attend university.

In , it is illegal for the government to collect information on people on the basis of race. And yet millions of immigrants — and the children and grandchildren of immigrants — fester in slums.

In the United States, the stratification of wealth followed several decades where economic equality was strong. The stock market crash of 1929 and that followed underscored the excesses of the roaring ’20s and ushered in an era in which the political climate favored labor unions, progressive taxation and social programs aimed at reducing poverty.

From the 1930s to the 1960s, the income of the less affluent Americans grew more quickly than that of their wealthier neighbors, and the richest 1 percent saw its share of the national income shrink to 8.9 percent in the mid-1970s, from 23.9 percent in 1928. That share is now back up to more than 20 percent, its level before the Depression.

Inequality has traditionally been acceptable to Americans if accompanied by mobility. But most recent studies of economic mobility indicate that it is getting even harder for people to jump from one economic class to another in the United States, harder to join the elite. While Americans are used to considering equal opportunity and equality of condition as separate issues, they may need to reconsider. In an era in which money translates into political power, there is a growing feeling, on both left and right, that special interests have their way in Washington. There is growing anger, from the to , that the current system is stacked against ordinary citizens. Suddenly, as in the 1930s, the issue of economic equality is back in play.
886 2011-10-23 For now, though, none of his rivals look capable of even pushing the race that far. They don’t have the money or the organizational muscle, but more important they aren’t clearing the first hurdle that every presidential candidate faces. After months of campaigning, it is nearly impossible to imagine any of them as a major party’s nominee, much less in the White House.

The exception was supposed to be Perry, whose résumé and donor base both look at least somewhat presidential. But after watching him stagger through the debates, his tongue tied and his poll numbers cratering, it’s clear that a Republican Party that nominated the Texas governor for president would be deliberately cutting its own throat. And this is something that national political parties almost never do.

People like to cite counterexamples: The Republicans nominated Barry Goldwater, after all, and the Democrats nominated George McGovern. But Goldwater and McGovern, for all their weaknesses, were far more credible nominees than a Perry, a Herman Cain, a Michele Bachmann, a Newt Gingrich. They were too extreme to win the general election, but they were not political novices or washed-up self-promoters, and they had a mix of eloquence and experience that’s largely absent from the current Republican field. (Watch clips of Goldwater being interviewed by William F. Buckley Jr. on “Firing Line,” and then try to imagine how Perry would fare in the same format.)

Everyone has an incentive to play down these realities and play up Romney’s vulnerabilities instead. The press needs the illusion of a hard-fought campaign to keep its audience from straying. Democrats enjoy the spectacle of right-wing infighting, and benefit politically from it as well. And Republicans don’t want to admit that America’s conservative party is destined to nominate a politician who embodies the very tendencies that the conservative movement came into being to resist: technocracy, ideological flexibility, Northeastern moderation.

It is a rather extraordinary turn of events. But when you have eliminated the impossible, as Sherlock Holmes told Watson, then whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth. This rule holds for presidential contests as well as for whodunits: Romney is improbable, but his rivals are impossible, and so he will be the nominee.

What’s more, Republicans have only themselves to blame for his inevitability. Romney owes his current position to two failures: the Bush era’s serial disasters, which left the Republican establishment without a strong bench of viable national politicians, and the Tea Party’s mix of zeal and naïveté, which has elevated cranks and frauds and future television personalities to the party’s presidential stage.

To date, neither the establishment nor the populists have come to terms with the failures of the last age of Republican dominance. And despite occasional flashes of creativity, neither has groped its way to a credible vision of what the next conservative era should look like.

What they have to offer instead is a largely opportunistic critique of a flailing liberal president. So it’s fitting that America’s most opportunistic politician is destined to be the standard-bearer for their cause.
887 2011-10-23 Many on Wall Street and in government argue that rescues are essential, to avoid the risk of destabilizing the financial system — with one bank’s failure to pay its obligations leading to problems at other banks. But others counter that the rescue of Dexia is reminiscent of the United States’ decision to fully protect big banks that were the trading partners of the American International Group when it collapsed, a decision that was sharply questioned and examined by Congress.

Critics warn of a replay of the financial crisis in autumn 2008, when governments used taxpayer money to shore up troubled companies, then allowed them to transfer those funds to their trading partners to protect those institutions from losses. In using public money to rescue private institutions, these critics say, policy makers effectively rewarded banks that traded with companies that were in trouble, rather than penalizing them, and that encouraged risky behavior.

“The question is did the A.I.G. experience and the bailouts generally contribute to the current situation?” asked Jonathan Koppell, director of the School of Public Affairs at Arizona State University. Would the banks, he continued, “have had a different view in dealing with Greece — or with Dexia for that matter — if those who had dealt with A.I.G. hadn’t been made whole?”

Given the global and interconnected nature of the financial system, institutions around the world have other types of indirect risk to European debt problems. But the scope of these ties is not fully known, because the exposure is hidden by complex transactions that do not have to be reported in detail.

Dexia, which was bailed out by France and Belgium once before, in 2008, is just a small piece of the broader European debt and banking turmoil. But its collapse comes at a critical point, as European officials are meeting this weekend to work out how taxpayer money should be used to resolve the Continent’s debt crisis.

The most acrimonious debate has been over the amount of losses banks should suffer for lending hundreds of billions of euros to countries that may not be able to fully repay. In the case of Greece, big lenders in Europe have tentatively agreed to swallow modest losses on what they are owed, but are resisting proposals that would force them to take a much bigger hit. Even if they accept losses, they may then seek tens or hundreds of billions in capital infusions from their governments.

As the Dexia bailout deal closed last week and was approved by the French Parliament, officials overseeing the restructuring say that the bank will meet all of its obligations in full. Alexandre Joly, the head of strategy, portfolios and market activities at Dexia, said in an interview that the idea of forcing Dexia’s trading partners to accept a discount on what they are owed “is a monstrous idea.” He added, “It is not compatible with rules governing the euro zone, and it has never, ever been considered to our knowledge by any government in charge of the supervision of the banks.”

While several government officials in France and Belgium agree that they expect to allow Dexia to use its rescue money to pay its trading partners in full, others said a final decision had not been made. Representatives for Dexia’s trading partners, like Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs, said they were not concerned about exposure to Dexia.

Dexia has suffered in several lines of business, including investments in sovereign debt from countries like Greece. But the biggest drain on its cash stemmed from a series of complex, wrong-way bets it made on interest rates related to its municipal lending business. A significant part of Dexia’s business is lending money to these localities at a fixed interest rate for relatively long periods, say 10 years. But, because the interest rate that the bank itself pays to finance its operations fluctuates, that exposes it to potential risk. If its cost of borrowing exceeds the interest it charges on loans outstanding, it loses money.

To protect itself, Dexia entered into transactions with other banks. But in doing so, it made a major miscalculation and protected itself only if interest rates rose. Instead, interest rates fell, and according to Dexia’s trade agreements, Dexia had to post billions of euros in collateral to institutions on the opposite side of its trades, like Commerzbank of Germany, Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs.

Dexia is also suffering losses on about 11 billion euros ($15.3 billion) in credit insurance it has written on mortgage-related securities, the same instruments that felled A.I.G., echoing that insurer’s troubles. In this business, too, Dexia’s problems have been worsened by aggressive demands by some trading partners for additional collateral. According to a person briefed on the transactions, Goldman Sachs, one of Dexia’s biggest trading partners, has asked for collateral equal to nearly twice the decline in market value of its deals. As was the case with A.I.G., Dexia must provide the collateral when the prices of the underlying securities fall, even if they have not defaulted.

In all, Dexia has had to post 43 billion euros to its trading partners to offset potential losses, up from 26 billion at the end of April and 15 billion at the end of 2008. The bank’s need for cash to meet these demands drained its coffers, and contributed to its need for a government bailout. The Belgian, French and Luxembourg governments provided a guarantee of up to 90 billion euros to Dexia, and Belgium purchased part of it outright.

Dexia declined to specify how much money had already gone to each trading partner. A Commerzbank spokesman declined to comment. Jeanmarie McFadden, a Morgan Stanley spokeswoman, said that the bank’s exposure to Dexia was immaterial and that Morgan Stanley had received adequate collateral to cover it. Lucas van Praag, a spokesman for Goldman, said “we have no reason to believe that Dexia will not continue to meet its contractual obligations after it is restructured.”

As for the aggressive collateral calls by Goldman, Mr. van Praag said: “Our dealings with Dexia have been perfectly normal. In an environment of widening credit spreads and increased volatility, collateral calls are to be expected.” The suggestion that Goldman has been more aggressive than Dexia’s other trading partners is “quite odd,” he said, adding: “If collateral is owed, we ask for it.” Mr. Joly of Dexia said the bank did not have “significant issues” with Goldman over collateral owed on some contracts.

Economists and financial players are closely watching how European officials handle Dexia’s financial contracts, which span the globe, to see what that might mean for other European banks that might need government support. As trading partners demand more cash, those demands could consume more of the money put up by the Belgian, French and Luxembourg governments.

“We know what the guarantees are that the government put down, but you don’t know how much the taxpayer will end up paying,” said Paul De Grauwe, a professor of economics at Katholieke Universiteit Leuven in Belgium. “I’m pretty sure there are other banks in Europe that have done similar things and may be caught in the crisis that is now brewing. I don’t think this is an isolated incident.”

It may be difficult for European governments to avoid making bank trading partners whole, especially American institutions, since the United States government paid full value to foreign banks that dealt with A.I.G. and also opened Federal Reserve programs to troubled foreign banks. Dexia, for example, leaned heavily on emergency lending programs created by the Fed during the depths of the financial crisis. At its peak borrowing near the end of 2008, Dexia received $58.5 billion from the Fed.

Some financial players may also argue that since France and Belgium took equity stakes in Dexia in 2008 — as part of the government bailout then — there was an implicit guarantee of the company’s obligations, similar to that of the housing finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the United States.

Walker F. Todd, a research fellow at the American Institute for Economic Research and a former official at the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, said governments were setting a troubling precedent when they bailed out a company and paid its trading partners in full, as occurred with A.I.G. and as might occur with Dexia.

“In the short run, it would help if the authorities would say they refuse to provide publicly funded money for the payoffs of derivatives,” he said. “This is like using public funds to support your local casino. It is difficult to see how this is good for society in the long run.”
888 2011-10-23 “We have laid down foundations for an agreement on the banking side,” said Anders Borg, Sweden’s finance minister.

The talks on Saturday established an improved tone over the past week, when differences between Mrs. Merkel and Mr. Sarkozy burst into the open.

But the challenge remains for leaders to construct a comprehensive and credible package of measures by Wednesday’s meeting.

Ministers were on track to ask bankers to write off around half of the value of their Greek bond holdings after a report by international lenders suggested that the economy in Greece had deteriorated so significantly that the 60 percent haircut was needed.

“We have agreed yesterday that we have to have a significant increase in the banks’ contribution,” Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg, who is the head of the euro group of finance ministers, said on Saturday. He did not offer a specific figure.

But Charles Dallara, the managing director of the Institute of International Finance, which has been negotiating on behalf of the banks, said the two sides were “nowhere near a deal,” The Associated Press reported.

One remaining worry is that Greece shows few signs of returning to economic growth and, though he declined to say how much in losses banks would be willing to accept, Mr. Dallara added, “We would be open to an approach that involves additional efforts from everyone.”

Greece’s deteriorating economic outlook was the subject of intense discussions among the ministers with Germany and the Netherlands pressing their case that private investors needed to take bigger losses.

According to the international lenders’ report, a 60 percent loss for bondholders would be needed to bring Greece’s debt below 110 percent of gross domestic product by 2020. That represents a huge increase from the 21 percent losses private investors agreed to accept only three months ago.

Without action, Greece’s financing needs could amount to roughly 252 billion euros through 2020, the document said, while under a worse outlook, the needs, including rollover of existing debt, could approach 450 billion euros. The emerging comprehensive package is highly complex and involves painstaking negotiations around issues that are often linked. For example, the deal to strengthen European banks is seen as vital to protect the banks from the fallout from write-downs on Greek bonds.

The ministers agreed on Friday to release the majority of loans worth 8 billion euros to prevent Greece from defaulting. The International Monetary Fund could contribute about 2 billion euros to that fund.

The biggest area of difference between France and Germany seemed to be narrowing after France appeared to be giving ground on how to bolster the euro rescue fund.

Mrs. Merkel had firmly opposed the French suggestion that the fund, the European Financial Stability Facility, should get a banking license, which would enable it to borrow from the European Central Bank.

France’s finance minister, François Baroin, said on Friday that the issue was “not a definitive point of discussion for us,” adding that “what matters is what works.”

On Saturday, the Dutch finance minister, Jan Kees de Jager, said that use of the central bank was “no longer an option” but that two options were under consideration.

Both options involve plans to insure against a portion of losses on Italian or Spanish bonds. Under one version this insurance would be offered by the bailout fund.

The other would form an agency to buy bonds, perhaps attracting new investors like sovereign wealth funds. This would buy bonds on the primary and secondary markets using insurance offered by the bailout fund, said one official briefed on discussions but not authorized to speak publicly.

One advantage of this plan might be that it could force clearer conditions for reform on countries whose bonds are bought.
889 2011-10-23 “Although the subcontractor and consultant had access to E.P.S. data, which includes personal information,” administrators wrote in the e-mail, “we are not aware of any actual misuse of the data.”

Financial Tracking Technologies said that no one had misused the data, even as it denied that it had allowed unauthorized access in the first place. In its formal proposal for the S.E.C. contract, as well as in subsequent documents, F.T.T. said it routinely worked with a third-party software developer, according to a company press release. Indeed, the company’s privacy policy, posted on its Web site, advises clients that subcontractors “may have access to your personal information as necessary to perform their functions.”

The agency employs nearly 4,000 people, and all must submit financial disclosure reports. As federal employees, some senior managers, for example, must list assets like stocks, bonds, annuities, retirement funds and real estate investments, for themselves and their spouses and dependent children.

But the S.E.C.’s warning to its employees is enough to give pause to anybody — federal employee or not — who submits sensitive information to the government, privacy experts say.

“This incident raises fundamental questions about the practices of the S.E.C. and the protection of personal information that it collects,” says Marc Rotenberg, executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center, a research center in Washington. “If the S.E.C. loses control of the information that people use to make trades, then those people are vulnerable because of the agency’s poor security practices.”

The incident, he says, raises questions about how much information government agencies need to keep — and how long they need to keep it — to perform their functions. It also raises questions about whether federal agencies are equipped to keep tabs on outside contractors that manage government data systems.

Indeed, the incident exposes major security gaps in federal data protection.

The S.E.C. initially chose to hire F.T.T. after the company “represented to the S.E.C. that its core business expertise, capacity and experience were sufficient to handle the S.E.C.’s requirements without the need to partner or subcontract any required elements of the work,” John Nester, the director of the agency’s office of public affairs, said last week. The contract, he said, required the company to obtain agency approval of all subcontractors on the project and to provide copies of any subcontracts.

But a former F.T.T. employee recently contacted the S.E.C. with security concerns, according to the agency’s e-mail to employees. The agency investigated and concluded that F.T.T. had not obtained the required approval for a subcontractor.

Although the S.E.C. regularly performed audits, Mr. Nester said, they were specific assessments — required by the Federal Information Security Management Act — to ensure that the system was not vulnerable to hacking. Those tests, he said, do not check for willful disclosure of sensitive data by agency contractors.

W. Anthony Turner, the managing principal of Financial Tracking Technologies, disagreed. He said last week that the company had told the agency that it worked with a third-party company to develop software for its databases; the software developer, he added, did not have access to sensitive information in the S.E.C. database. “The real issue ought to be: ‘Was there a data breach, or not?’ ” he said. “There wasn’t, and there never has been at F.T.T.”

STILL, news of the system’s potential vulnerabilities has left many S.E.C. employees wondering why the agency outsourced ethics compliance in the first place, said Greg Gilman, chapter president of the National Treasury Employees Union; it represents about 2,700 nonmanagement S.E.C. employees.

“This is particularly disturbing since the S.E.C. apparently had no mechanism to ensure that the outside contractor was maintaining the appropriate level of privacy and security in handling this private data,” he said in an e-mail last week.

In an ideal world, the S.E.C. compliance system would obviate Congressional investigations like the ones earlier this year, in which the agency was asked to explain why it had allowed its general counsel to work on formulas to compensate clients of Bernard L. Madoff, even though that official (who has since left the agency) had inherited money in 2004 from a Madoff account.

But how well can an ethics compliance system work if employees don’t trust it to safeguard their personal information?

The S.E.C. is currently reviewing E.P.S., which was suspended last month. The agency’s Office of Inspector General did not respond to queries last week about whether it was investigating.
890 2011-10-23 One of them is Ben Lyon. Two years ago, Mr. Lyon, a recent college graduate in international relations and economics, was in Sierra Leone and feeling highly discouraged. Through a nonprofit group, he had tried to start a pilot program meant to allow microfinancing organizations to receive loan payments via their cellphones. But he just couldn’t get it off the ground.

Today, he is running Kopo Kopo Inc., which is based on that earlier effort. With four full-time employees in Kenya, it offers a mobile payment app that helps people make purchases in areas where banks don’t exist or where fees are too high for the poor to open accounts.

How did it happen? Mr. Lyon, 24, originally from Hanover, N.H., attributes his success to a commercial structure he created with the help of the institute. So far he has raised nearly $1 million from institutional investors.

“We select for-profit ideas that we think have the ability to meet the needs of at least one million people,” says Mr. Epstein, who founded the institute along with Teju Ravilochan, 24, and Tyler Hartung, 26.

The selected entrepreneurs include people like Myshkin Ingawale, 28, of Biosense Technologies, which makes a device that tests women and children for anemia; Luis Duarte, 30, who started YoReciclo (I Recycle) in Monterey, Mexico; and Jamie Yang, 31, founder of a EGG-energy, a company based in Tanzania that sells rechargeable batteries through a portable power grid.

The institute conducts its program at a fraternity house it rents at the University of Colorado. The six weeks are intense and communal. Fellows sleep three or so to a room. A chef prepares three in-house meals a day. The fellows dine at a table seating 60, alongside mentors who might include the chief technology officer of Hewlett-Packard or the former director of Google.org.

On any given day, the fellows might go on a hike or a bike ride with a potential investor, attend a workshop about building corporate partnerships, or take part in “family pitch night,” when two entrepreneurs present their companies to the rest of the group for feedback. At the end of the program, the fellows travel to San Francisco and pitch their ideas to a group of investors.

Mr. Epstein says market-based solutions are important in spurring economic growth throughout the developing world.

“This is really in contrast to the prevalent model of international aid,” says Cynthia Koening, 33, who attended the program this year. Her company, Wello, based in Rajasthan, India, is aimed at people — most of them women — who must walk long distances to bring drinking water to the home. Her cylinder-shaped product allows women to roll water home from the source rather than carry it on their heads, which can be dangerous and time-consuming.

Ms. Koening says the decision to run Wello as a commercial business — it will sell its product, the WaterWheel, to consumers — was an easy one. “When people make choices in a market economy, they are deliberately choosing the solution that best meets their needs, she says. “Also, we don’t want to have to depend on donor grants and donations. That’s not sustainable.”

MR. LYON, of Kopo Kopo, agrees that it’s time to use more commercial muscle to help solve global woes. His company plans to generate revenue through small subscription fees. “The nonprofit space has been so massive but has had disproportionally little impact in solving some of the world’s biggest problems,” he contends.

But investors can be leery of commercial social ventures. One obstacle is due diligence. Investors generally “can’t go to Liberia or New Delhi to kick the tires before they write a $50,000 check,” says Nick Flores, investment director at Investors’ Circle, a network of more than 150 people who finance businesses with a social or environmental impact.

He says one question kept tugging at him when he attended the institute’s pitch day last June: “Is it financial first or impact first?” The network, so far, has not invested in any companies based on those pitches, he says.

“One of the only fellows who got a standing ovation was a young man helping rehabilitate child soldiers in Liberia,” he recalls. “We will have investors interested in that from an impact standpoint, but the larger question will be how are they going to get their money back?”

Mr. Epstein says: “These companies are forcing investors to rethink investment terms beyond just having equity that liquidates. They’ll have to get creative with their financial mechanisms, but most firms and funds aren’t comfortable with that.”

Nevertheless, about half the fellows in last year’s class received financing, ranging from $40,000 to $400,000, from the investors they met on pitch day, the institute says. The companies might aim to generate revenue through subscription fees (as Kopo Kopo is doing) or through government contracts, charging for advertising and — in the most time-honored way of all — charging for a product or service.

MR. EPSTEIN is no stranger to starting businesses. He turned down Princeton to go to the University of Colorado because he thought it would be “less academically intense” and give him give more time to be an entrepreneur.

By the time he was 19, he had started two companies: Tuition Specialists, which helps out-of-state students at the university work through the complicated process of paying in-state tuition legally, and Unreasonable Adventures, an ecotourism Web site.

But neither company fully captured Mr. Epstein’s vision of an enterprise that would be good for both shareholders and consumers. So he set about creating the institute, which is a nonprofit, financed through a combination of private donations and grants.

The institute, which has four board members, has raised more than $300,000 to run the program. Entrepreneurs compete fiercely for spots. Finalists raise the $8,000 tuition by mobilizing their friends, families and professional networks to donate in small amounts. (This process avoids what the institute calls the “rich uncle” advantage.)

When the two dozen or so finalists who have won the funding race meet, ideas are proposed and retooled, eureka moments happen, and help is offered, sometimes by way of crowd-sourced fund-raising.

During the first week of this year’s institute, Raj Janagam, founder of Cycle Chalao, a bicycle-sharing program based in Mumbai, received an e-mail from the Ministry of Urban Development in India requesting a meeting to discuss a government partnership with his company. Mr. Janagam, 23, had been trying to schedule this meeting for two years and had to get back to Mumbai, but he did not have $2,000 for a last-minute plane ticket.

Ties Kroezen, another fellow at the institute, set up a campaign on ChipIn, a Web service that helps individuals and groups raise and collect money for various projects. Five days later, Mr. Janagam had a plane ticket to India.

“I had never raised that amount of money in my life,” Mr. Janagam said. “In India, $2,000 is a lot of money. It was amazing the kind of support I got.”

As for the meeting with the ministry, Mr. Janagam says it gave Cycle Chalao national credibility, and moved it closer to a partnership that will help it expand throughout India over the next few years. Forty-eight hours after the meeting, Mr. Janagam returned to the institute.

For others, the benefits are not that instantaneous. Mr. Ingawale, 28, and a 2011 fellow, recently quit his job at McKinsey & Company in Mumbai to start Biosense Technologies, which makes the ToucHb, an iPad-size device that tests women and children for anemia.

In 2008, Mr. Ingawale was in a village outside of Mumbai and witnessed a woman die in childbirth because of complications related to anemia, which she had never been tested for. “I come from an engineering and consulting background,” he said, “so it struck me that there had to be a business solution for a disease that impacts millions of women and children in South Asia.”

Mr. Ingawale and his company have a long road ahead, even though the World Health Organization named ToucHb as one of the new emerging technologies to address global health concerns.

Like any start-up, the company will have to raise capital, but it will also have to navigate issues specific to socially minded ventures: How to market a product in the developing world? And how to strike the right balance between being a profit-making business and having a social mission?

Mr. Ingawale went searching for answers at the Unreasonable Institute. He says he didn’t come away with much that was concrete, but he felt more energized.

“Being at the Unreasonable Institute created the complete feeling that we can do anything,” he says. He also met people like Rajesh Anandan, a senior executive at Unicef. “That’s someone I will definitely be reaching out to,” he says, “when it makes sense to deploy ToucHb across the developing world.” The device is now in clinical trials.

FOR some participants, the institute is just one stop on a kind of social entrepreneurship circuit; they’ve been awarded numerous fellowships, won different business plan competitions and are regular faces at industry conferences. For others, the institute is their first encounter with this scene. This is especially true for many of the 60 percent of fellows who live outside the United States.

By coming to Boulder this year, Mr. Duarte of Mexico, founder of YoRecicolo, which operates recycling programs, was able to meet like-minded people who work on recycling and waste issues. He even received an invitation to speak at a Clinton Global Initiative conference in New York last month. His company has been profitable since last year.

Like Mr. Duarte, Mr. Janagam of Cycle Chalao found that the institute helped him forge contacts with other people interested in tackling social issues.

“I do not come from a business family,” Mr. Janagam says. “I lack connections with high-profile people.” After six weeks, though, his smartphone was packed with contacts.
891 2011-10-23 THOSE who think that love and protest politics are mutually exclusive are encouraged to view the YouTube video from Occupy Wall Street of a young man on bended knee in Zuccotti Park proposing marriage (“Deb, will you occupy my life?”) to his girlfriend. The following poems about the romantic repercussions of the demonstrations were “found” this month in the Missed Connections section of newyork.craigslist.com. They are printed verbatim, with only line and stanza breaks added; the titles are the subject headings. ALAN FEUER

I was all dressed in blue for a reason.

Standing in front of Capitol One Bank

at 6 av at about w39 st

I was with my work partner

standing in front of the Bank entrance

when you and a friend stopped

I thought you were so beautiful

was coming up the Street

and you asked us a question about it,

and then all too soon

you were gone and the air
892 2011-10-23 Nevertheless it is the most riveting look at the life and world of skateboarders since “Dogtown.” Unlike that film, which sought to chronicle nothing less than the transformation of a sport, “Dragonslayer” is pretty void of action, and that’s sort of the point. Mr. Sandoval, now 25, gets tattooed, smokes copious amounts of marijuana, skates at assorted sites, falls in love with Leslie Brown, an ambitious teenager with dreams of college, and embarks on a failed road trip.

It’s not clear just how much the film’s protagonist has been personally affected by the recession, but his wanderings, from one backyard overgrown with weeds to the next, reveal a landscape ravaged by it.

“There was this experience of always picking him up or going to meet him, and suddenly you’re in Modesto,” Mr. Patterson said. “It’s like he’s transient, and yet he’s always home.”

In many ways Mr. Sandoval’s life and travels are a lot like the clandestine sport itself. Existing on the fringes, pool skating has always thrived during times of crisis. The 1991 firestorm in the Oakland hills spawned a short-lived pool-skating boom there that was documented in the 2004 film “Skating Through the Ashes.” More recently Mr. Henderson shot skaters riding pools behind homes devastated by Hurricane Katrina.

“We’re just land pirates,” said Steve Alba, who has skated over 5,000 pools by his rough count, and who recently introduced the Salba Cruz line of boards and apparel. “During the earthquake in L.A. back in ’94 we skated hundreds of pools for three years running, because there were just so many red-tagged homes.”

And cameramen have been there to document nearly every spectacular trick and spill. Pool skating “was such a brand-new thing that we literally wanted to see what we looked like riding them,” Mr. Peralta said of the early films. “Even now the reason it’s photographed so much is because it’s so ephemeral. These pools sometimes only last for weeks or days, so you want a memory of it. Getting it on film is like having a trophy.”

For Mr. Patterson the process of documenting a subculture wary of outsiders presented its own challenges. “You’re constantly thinking about boundaries,” he said. “If Skreech was entering a new environment that I hadn’t filmed at, I kind of came in behind him and tried to stay quiet. I wasn’t walking into an environment going, ‘I’m making a movie about this kid, and this is what I want to see here.’ ”

On location for “Fresno” skaters asked the director, Mr. Payne, not to film the fronts of houses and thus reveal the pools’ locations. And forget your typical shooting schedule. “They go skating when they wake up,” Mr. Payne said, “and they stop when it gets too hot, or when the bars and the strip joints open.”

Once the skaters do show up, there’s still the matter of making the pools skateable. Cleaning scenes have become a staple of the genre, as skaters spend hours draining fetid water, shoveling out debris and extracting the occasional bullfrog or opossum. In “Cancer Dust” Mr. Henderson tweaked the ritual by hiring local models to perform the task decked out in high heels and fishnets.

“Dragonslayer” begins with such a scene. After a montage of skating shots Mr. Sandoval, bare-chested, is shown draining and scrubbing a particularly wretched-looking pool in Delano, Calif. Finally he drops in, and after a couple of spills he’s flying around the pool, blissfully reaping the fruits of his labor. That is, until a woman storms from the house and boots him out. Total riding time: about five minutes.

But those are some minutes. “I think he has found happiness in a pool,” Mr. Patterson said. “That’s where things make sense. A lot of people are like that. You find something you love, and that can be healthy, and it can be really unhealthy. The world makes sense to Keith Richards when he’s playing his guitar. The rest of the time life is difficult.”
893 2011-10-23 The two torqued towers of the Bella Sky Comwell are among the tallest buildings in Copenhagen, but what is branded a “design hotel” is really a corporate setup that caters to business travelers attending conventions in the adjacent exhibition hall. Rates start at 990 Danish krone ($186).

The Bella Sky Comwell is one of Scandinavia’s largest hotels, a gleaming 812-room wager that not everybody who travels to Copenhagen wants to be in Copenhagen — at least not in the city of narrow streets and bike lanes crowded with Danes in the latest fashions. The hotel is next to the Bella Center, a vast exhibition hall, which means that those with business at the center never have to set foot outside. Most guests have meetings to attend, and seem to feel at home in the glass and steel lobby, which has the pleasant if generic feeling of a new airport terminal. The restaurants and bars are similarly handsome and bland, each with a theme: the Library (books), the Balcony (plants), the Sky Bar (view).

The hotel is in Orestaden, a part of the city split between handsome glass-walled apartment buildings and empty lots waiting for construction. It feels like a pleasant, antiseptic look at the future. Orestaden is about midway between Kastrup Airport and the historic center of Copenhagen, which is a long taxi ride (about 160 krone, or $30, at 5.30 krone to the dollar) or a short metro ride (24 krone) away.  The hotel’s only neighbors are the Bella Center, the Royal Golf Center, a towering wind turbine and vacant lots.

The Web site presents a dazzling array of rooms — you choose the size, the floor and the mattress, Jensen or Hastens. I booked an Individual Bella on a high floor for 1,490 krone (picking a nonrefundable rate saved me about 200 krone), and I was upgraded because my room class was occupied. What a disappointment to step into a smallish box that looked out on the wind turbine. Where were the twisting walls, the cutting-edge design, the view? True, the white room was immaculate, the Jensen bed was extremely comfortable, and it was very quiet. But the cramped quarters felt more anonymous than luxurious.

THE BATHROOM A large tub with good shower fixtures had powerful water pressure, although the soaps and other products were nothing special. There were plenty of towels but no robes, a shortfall at this price.

The in-room menu gives a couple of nods to local cuisine (smoked salmon), but it’s mostly standard international fare: Caesar salad, hamburger. After two misdirected calls, room service answered the phone and delivered my order in 15 minutes. I was instructed to push a nearly invisible button by the door when I wanted the tray taken, one of the few moments when the hotel delivered on its promise of offering sleek, efficient design.

There is free wireless throughout the hotel, a well-equipped gym and a spa with steam rooms and plunge pools. As at most Copenhagen hotels, bicycles may be rented by the day.
894 2011-10-23 Neurath helped to improve communications out of a sense of altruism. But for many designers, creating symbols or logos is simply a profitable business. Why should the cost of designing a little insignia rise into the range of six or seven figures? Because logos are more than mere identifying marks. They are sacred icons, or, as Paul Rand — the creator of enduring logos for I.B.M., Westinghouse and other corporations — once said: They are rabbits’ feet, emblems of the incalculable.

Enough well-known symbols and mnemonic signs have been designed over the 20th and 21st centuries to fill a thick book, and Angus Hyland and Steven Bateman have compiled more than 300 pages’ worth in SYMBOL (Laurence King, paper, $40), which contains over 1,300 logos classified by visual type. The symbols run the gamut, from abstract marks like those of Canal Metro (a Spanish broadcaster) and Chase Manhattan Bank, to the unmistakable penguin of Penguin Books, to the heraldic lion shield of the Danish police. Many, like a symbol for “Watsu,” “an abbreviated term for water shiatsu,” are so difficult to interpret that even the explanation doesn’t help. (The meanings of some symbols are indeed in the eye of the beholder.) Other symbols are so obvious, however — like that of the Council of Fashion Designers of America, a heart as American flag being stitched with a needle — that the pleasure one derives from solving the visual riddle is lost.

“Symbol” has its share of clunkers, like the logo design for KereKere (a chain of Australian restaurants named after the Fijian custom of “giving without expecting repayment,” the book notes), featuring what looks like a cup from which hearts waft like steam. But there are also brilliant, timeless, unforgettable marks, like William Golden’s CBS “eye” and Jean Widmer’s Centre Georges Pompidou rectangle, depicting the grid of the famous Paris museum with its external stairway snaking up the facade.

Hyland, a partner at Pentagram Design in London, and Bateman, a writer who has collaborated on many design projects, have divided their book into “Abstract” and “Representational” sections with numerous thematic subsets: abstract circles, triangles, dots and crosses; representational snowflakes, birds, stars and hearts. Although “Symbol” includes a detailed introduction by David Gibbs, a communications strategist, its main body comprises the marks, shown as a continuum of manipulated forms in pure geometries or visual puns — the quintessential tool of symbol designers.

As a comparative study, “Symbol” will be instructive for designers, marketers and businesspeople; it’s interesting to see the ratio of avant-garde to conventional ideas (about 50-50). Certain motifs seem theoretically impractical as marks, but on the printed page they have a sort of logic. The random, nonsensical squiggle for Parque de Atracciones de Madrid (a theme park), which “recalls the thrilling experience of riding in a roller coaster,” would make Otto Neurath apoplectic, but apparently it worked. It turns out a bad design can still be a good mark.

Even the most complex or heraldic logos in “Symbol” are reductive. To function efficiently, a logo must be readable whether it’s as large as a billboard or as small as a colophon. But bookplates — another form of identifying mark — can be as baroque or as simplified as the creator desires. In EX LIBRIS: The Art of Bookplates (Yale University, paper, $15), Martin Hopkinson, a former curator of prints at the Hunterian Art Gallery at the University of Glasgow, explains that bookplates, first produced in the 15th century and “sometimes known as ex libris, from the Latin for ‘from the books of,’ ” were “originally a mark of prestige and status in society.” For the devout bibliophile, a bookplate is still a necessity. According to Hopkinson, “a resurgence of high-quality artist-­designed bookplates in the 1970s coincided with the revival in Britain of the technique of wood engraving, and a proliferation in the art world of the production of multiples of all kinds.” I reckon that the plates in this slim, richly illustrated volume may inspire another resurgence — perhaps in digital form.

Among the impressive reproductions in “Ex Libris” are the 1524 portrait designed by Albrecht Dürer for the Nuremberg humanist Willibald Pirckheimer; Eric Gill’s 1920 bookplate for the Tamil philosopher and art historian Ananda Coomaraswamy, a masterpiece of erotic simplicity depicting a scene from the “Ramayana”; and Lucien Pissarro’s restrained wood-engraved bookplate of a tranquil rural scene, made in 1920 for himself and his wife.

But the ones I covet, for they are reminiscent of the most striking marks by Neurath and in “Symbol,” are the 1923 plates by the artist and poet Sidney James Hunt, who was a secretary and treasurer of the English Bookplate Society. To possess his woodcuts of Narcissus-­like figures in black, red and green — perfect examples of English Vorticism — would mean having a modernist print looking up at you every time you opened a book.
895 2011-10-23 Q Speaking of all these clients, some groups have questioned AKRF’s objectivity when conducting studies for them, charging that more often than not you reach conclusions in their favor, as with Columbia’s plans.

A If it’s an impact study, that’s really being done for the decision-making agency, and it becomes their document. It’s not an advocacy document — it’s a disclosure document.

In New York nothing’s easy. Communities care about what gets built, and adjacent property owners often care the most. Of course there is a lot of controversy surrounding some of the projects we are involved with, as was certainly the case with Columbia’s Manhattanville proposal. This is New York City and people have strong competing opinions they express in different forums, but we would not be as successful as we are if the quality and accuracy of our work could not be sustained.

Q This is AKRF’s 30th year in business.

A Yes, and it’s a big accomplishment to have worked in this industry for that long and to still be going strong. We’re going to have an exhibit related to important projects in New York that we’ve been working on and how New York has evolved over those 30 years.

Q How many projects are you working on now?

A It’s more than 200. Projects can last a long time, so it doesn’t mean every week somebody is working on one of the 200 projects.

Q Would you say business is good?

A For everybody who works in this sector, the last few years have been kind of tumultuous. It’s a cyclical business, so we kind of run ourselves carefully, and we’re holding our own. But I would say that the markets that we work in, both in the public and the private sectors, are still worrisome. We’re up a little from last year.

Q Is New York your primary market?

A The majority of our work is within 50 to 100 miles of the city. We stretch from D.C. up into Connecticut, but we finally got a project now in Atlanta.

Q What are the main issues in New York, versus other areas?

A Almost everywhere, traffic and transportation are kind of like the default, just because almost everybody cares about them to an extent. In New York, depending upon where you are, schools are often a concern, urban design can be a concern, along with air quality, noise and land use.

Q Tell me about your work at the World Trade Center site.

A We’ve been working with L.M.D.C. — the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation — since 9/11. We did the environmental impact statement for the entire redevelopment for L.M.D.C. and the Port Authority.

Q And you discovered something rather surprising there, didn’t you?

A Lo and behold, we actually found a ship!

They found portions of it. We have full-time architectural historians and archeologists on staff. They think it was probably sunk intentionally to fill in an inter-pier area, or it just sank. They really don’t know. I think there’s still research to be done on the boat, but it’s been removed, and now they have to figure out whether there’s a museum or other function for it going forward.

The construction people weren’t thrilled with the finding, because you had to keep the construction going and you had to stop the construction in the area of the ship.
896 2011-10-23 Borrowers will need to consider other financial goals, like saving for college or retirement. “Think about it in a big-picture kind of way,” said Betsy Billard, an adviser at Ameriprise Financial in Manhattan. “Make sure it makes sense all around.” Can the monthly savings from the refinancing be invested and used toward these goals? How will the refinancing affect your tax bill?

After these issues have been discussed, don’t jump at the first advertised low rate dangled in front of you, Ms. Billard said, advising borrowers to shop around for a broker who can offer a variety of loan choices.

Phillip Loria, the president of Amerimutual Mortgage, a broker in Astoria, Queens, says borrowers should also resist becoming fixated on obtaining the lowest possible rate. “Sometimes people get caught up in that eighth of a percent,” he said, mentioning one recent client who calculated savings of $90,000 over the life of his refinanced loan. When rates ticked up an eighth of a point, the client held off — even though he still would have saved some $88,000 over all. “They try to time the market so perfectly that they end up doing nothing,” Mr. Loria said.

Here are four questions that borrowers should consider carefully before proceeding with a refinancing, according to experts.

HOW SECURE IS YOUR JOB? If you feel you could be out of work in six months or a year, then don’t use up savings to cover fees or increase the down payment. “You don’t want to rob yourself of liquidity because you’re throwing it all in your house,” Ms. Billard said. A follow-up question could be: “If you think you could potentially be out of a job in six months, how will the refi work for you?”

WHAT ARE THE SAVINGS? Get a good-faith estimate from your lender and make sure it includes all the costs involved. Then compare these numbers with the amount you would save in the first year of the new mortgage. (Look at the difference between your old monthly payment and your expected new one and multiply by 12.)

WHAT ABOUT THE RATE? Are you getting it locked in — and for how long? How many points are you paying to get a lower rate? Ask to see a rate sheet, Mr. Loria said.

WHAT’S THE RIGHT TIME FRAME? If your children are heading for college in nine years or your retirement is likely in 15, your mortgage term should match up. Most mortgages are made in five-year increments, but some lenders will offer more variety. “You actually can get a 23-year loan,” Mr. Boone said. “You just have to ask.”
897 2011-10-23 “You can’t be a playwright without believing there’s an audience for adventurous work,” said Mr. Hwang, a boyish-looking 54-year-old, whose mop of spiky black hair was reminiscent of that of Billie Joe Armstrong, the lead singer of Green Day. “In this case I thought ‘Chinglish’ would be kind of amusing, but it’s been a pleasant surprise when people actually laugh out loud.”

Still, “Chinglish” is one of the biggest commercial risks on Broadway this season. The production cost about $3.5 million to mount, and when it opens on Thursday it will competing for an audience with other new American plays like “Other Desert Cities,” “The Mountaintop,” “Seminar” and “Venus in Fur.” Most straight plays are capitalized at $2 million to $3 million, and turning a profit is still difficult. (Plays sell fewer tickets than musicals do.)

Mr. Hwang and Jeffrey Richards, one of the lead producers, are well aware of the risk. In an unusual move the ticket discount flyer for “Chinglish” does not describe the play or even include its title on the cover, but rather notes that, in 2007, Mr. Richards and his business partner, Jerry Frankel, “discovered a gem of a play in Chicago and brought it to Broadway.” That was “August: Osage County,” which went on to win the Tony Award for best play and make money for its investors.

Mr. Richards said that the discount flier’s emphasis on “August: Osage County” was not meant to suggest that the producers lacked faith in “Chinglish.”

“The two plays will hopefully be positioned similarly, where many of the same people who took a chance on ‘August’ will take a chance on ‘Chinglish,’ since both are cases where the plays and the playwrights are the stars,” Mr. Richards said.

Many Broadway theatergoers who have traveled in a non-English-speaking country will have an easy time relating to the main character, Daniel, a Cleveland businessman struggling, to humorous effect, with the language and customs of China as he negotiates with government officials over buying his company’s (properly translated) signs. But many of the play’s insights about the Chinese come through another key character, Xi Yan, a cagey, attractive bureaucrat whom Daniel falls for. Xi (pronounced “she”) has attitudes about romance, marriage and business relationships — or “guanxi” — that will probably be eye opening to Americans unfamiliar with China.

Late in the play, for instance, Xi talks to Daniel about “qingyi” — a word for a mature kind of love, a marital partnership (Xi earns laughs by saying it means comrade) — and sets up a surprising clash between the two characters about different types of affection.

“A lot of the ways Xi looks at the world are culturally Chinese, in ways that I can identify with, but some of our audiences haven’t,” said Mr. Hwang, describing the audible gasps at key moments during the play’s Chicago run. “There are just so many fundamental misunderstandings about our two cultures, about ideas that Americans tend to think of as intrinsic, like the role of love in long-term marriages. We don’t have a term in English, really, for qingyi. ‘Love’ is a clumsy word the way we use it. It can mean anything from altruistic love to brotherly love to lust.”

Jennifer Lim, who plays Xi in the Broadway production (as she also did in a critically acclaimed run at the Goodman Theater in Chicago over the summer), said the character was by far the most nuanced and compelling portrait of an Asian woman that she has played.

“I’ve gone out for the manicurists and all the other Asian roles, where the characters are all about attitude and comic relief, but most of those parts weren’t recognizable as people,” said Ms. Lim, who was born and raised in Hong Kong. “But a fully rounded Chinese woman on Broadway, mostly speaking her native language — and she is a lead character? Honestly I never thought I’d see it, let alone play it.”

Mr. Hwang began kicking around ideas for “Chinglish” a couple of years ago with Leigh Silverman, who directed his last play in New York, the 2007 production of “Yellow Face,” a semi-autobiographical work about cultural role playing and stereotyping. “Yellow Face” was Mr. Hwang’s attempt to close the book on the cultural wars of the 1990s — particularly, his public opposition to the casting of Jonathan Pryce, a Welsh actor, as a Eurasian in the Broadway production of “Miss Saigon,” and the subsequent flop of his own Broadway play “Face Value,” which was inspired by the “Saigon” debate and closed during previews.

“I wanted to use the play to figure out how I felt about China, which is cool now in a way that I never would have imagined as a child,” Mr. Hwang said. “There’s something about China and its rush to capitalism that I find confusing. At the same time, we live in an America where capitalists oppose any government interference with free markets, while in China you have a very controlled, state-planned market where economic growth is better than ours.”

Ms. Silverman, who is also directing “Chinglish,” said she saw the play as a kind of bookend to “M. Butterfly,” which made Mr. Hwang’s reputation when it opened on Broadway in 1988, running for almost two years. Both plays focus on white Westerners who go to China and find themselves in romances that are complicated by secrecy and cultural barriers. Whereas the Frenchman in “M. Butterfly” suffers tragic consequences from the delusion that his lover, a male opera diva, was a woman, “Chinglish” suggests that delusions of romance are a hindrance to professional success in modern China.

Mr. Hwang did not disagree with the link to “M. Butterfly,” which he said he believed would have a Broadway revival in the next few years.

“I wasn’t consciously thinking that ‘Chingish’ was talking to ‘M. Butterfly,’ but I do see a relationship there, especially in how the power balance has started to shift between East and West,” Mr. Hwang said. “The two countries are at a point now where we’d be very smart to engage in a deep level and try to see things from the other people’s points of view.”
898 2011-10-23 An only child, he was given his first camera when he was 8 and never thought of anything but a life in cinema. His big break came when he acquired an abandoned synagogue here and turned it into a studio and academy, where he trained actors and technicians.

Both “At Midnight I’ll Take Your Soul” and “This Night I’ll Possess Your Corpse” were partly shot there, with scenes that featured eyes being gouged out and snakes and other creepy critters crawling over actresses’ faces; later films would even show cannibalism. But Brazil was under a right-wing military dictatorship, so Mr. Mojica’s eccentric look and activities aroused suspicions: in the name of authenticity rats, spiders and scorpions were allowed to roam the studio, and episodes in which actors or crew members died during production (though the deaths were unrelated to filming) added to his reputation for the macabre.

“The police thought it was all a facade behind which terrorists could be hidden, and it was hard to get that idea out of their heads,” Mr. Mojica recalled. But his biggest problems were with government censors, who were shocked and disgusted by his mixture of gore, sex and blasphemy, perhaps most notably a scene in “I’ll Take Your Soul” that has Coffin Joe eating a plate of lamb as he mocks a passing Good Friday procession.

“This film is of terrible bad taste, using and abusing beatings, torture, sex and extreme violence” one censor complained in a report that the writer and director André Barcinski obtained for his biography of Mr. Mojica, “Damned: The Life and Films of José Mojica Marins, Coffin Joe.” As a result several of the films had to be “mutilated,” as Mr. Mojica put it, in order to be released; one was prohibited, and an injunction prevented him from even beginning to shoot another.

Broke and with producers unwilling to finance projects that ran the risk of also being banned, Mr. Mojica was forced to put aside his own scripts and become a director for hire. He initially did low-budget westerns, science fiction and adventures, but as the 1970s wore on, he drifted into soft-core pornography, shooting movies like “The Virgin and the Macho Man” under the pseudonym J. Avelar. When even those opportunities dried up, he worked as a master of ceremonies at parties and dances.

“People confuse him with his character a lot, and it’s his fault,” said Mr. Barcinski, who is also the co-director of the documentary “Damned: The Strange World of José Mojica Marins.” “He used it as a means of making a living for 20 or 30 years, and it makes him a magnet for all kinds of strange people any time he is in a public setting.”

Over the years Mr. Mojica also dabbled in comic books and television, as the host of shows with names like “Beyond, Far Beyond the Beyond.” At the moment he is the host of a weekly horror-oriented talk show called “The Strange World of Coffin Joe” on a Brazilian cable channel, but he admits to being hopelessly incompetent with his own business affairs, so he has never made much money from any of his endeavors.

Mr. Mojica seemed destined to remain in obscurity, but technology and globalization eventually came to his rescue. As the Coffin Joe films became available, first on VHS and then on DVD and YouTube, inquisitive horror fans outside Brazil discovered them and, beginning around 1990, started inviting him to film festivals in North America and Europe, where he would appear in character and invariably make a strong impression.

“There was no real analog to him in American horror films,” explained Michael Gingold, the managing editor of Fangoria, the leading magazine covering the genre. “He grabbed a lot of attention, because these films were more extreme than many of those being made in America at the same time, and Coffin Joe was a singular figure, a precursor to characters like Freddy Krueger and Jason, in that he was a human being who chooses to do evil, and not a monster like Frankenstein or Dracula, for whom you could feel sorry. So there was a sense of great surprise that a rich collection of films had not yet been discovered.”

Mr. Mojica said the distinctive look of the Coffin Joe character first came to him in “an awful, violent, heavy nightmare” in the early 1960s. At that point he had filmed a couple of dramas and cowboy movies, with titles like “My Destiny in Your Hands” and “The Adventurer’s Fate,” but the dream made him realize that Brazil had no tradition of horror films, and that he could easily transplant the genre from the castles and forests of Europe to the plazas and streets familiar to the audience he wanted to attract.

“I was being taken to the cemetery to be buried, but I was still alive,” Mr. Mojica recalled of the nightmare. “I remember that I was wearing all black, so I started filming that way.”

The character’s other trademark is his impossibly long fingernails. Mr. Mojica said that from 1964 to 1999 he never once cut his nails, so that “at their peak they were nearly a yard long, with curves that made them look like strands of spaghetti.” Since then he has stored the fingernails at home, gluing them back on when he slips into character.

Coffin Joe has always held a strong appeal for musicians, especially among punk and heavy-metal bands. The Ramones were such dedicated fans that on a tour of Brazil the guitarist Johnny Ramone gave Mr. Mojica a prized leather jacket, autographed by all four members, as a token of the group’s esteem. Members of the Cramps have also sought out Mr. Mojica when their tour schedule brought them here, and the drummer of the British band the Horrors has even adopted Coffin Joe as his stage name.

In the heavy-metal world Mr. Mojica’s best-known disciple is probably the singer and film director Rob Zombie, who used dialogue from “Awakening of the Beast” on the White Zombie song “I, Zombie” and has inserted oblique tributes to the Coffin Joe films into his own movies. Groups like Sepultura, Necrophagia and Faith No More have also written songs that refer, directly or indirectly, to the Coffin Joe movies.

“All horror characters go against prevailing mores, but part of Coffin Joe’s appeal is that he actively sets out to attack and dismember mainstream societal and religious values,” Mr. Gingold said. “So it’s hardly a surprise that punk and metal, which often do the same thing, should embrace him.”

In 2008 Mr. Mojica was finally able to make “Embodiment of Evil,” which he had conceived more than 40 years earlier as the last part of a Coffin Joe trilogy. With a budget of $2 million — the earlier parts of the trilogy had cost less than $20,000 each to make — the film, which recently became available in a DVD and Blu-ray combination edition, proved to be as gory and deliberately offensive as anything he had ever done.

“He was very much into the idea of coming in with a very brutal and harrowing piece,” said Dennison Ramalho, who wrote the script with Mr. Mojica. “He was very angry and resentful, bustling with fury, at having to wait all these years for it to come to life, so he wanted to out-evil the previous ones. He is still breaking boundaries.”
899 2011-10-23 Core Jones, 20: I agree with the Occupy Wall Street demands. I'm a college student working for my education. Both my parents are cops, and I split the tuition payments with my father. I get paid about $300 if I work 20 hours at AutoZone in Brookly...
900 2011-10-23 REISS--Stephen. A wonderful human being deeply loved by all who knew him, Stephen Reiss died at the age of 89. Born in Brooklyn to Rena and Joseph Reiss he went to Lawrence High School and University of North Carolina. He then served in the US Nav...
901 2011-10-24 C. W. Stewart has the loaf of bread and the jug of wine. You do the rest....
902 2011-10-24 C. W. Stewart has the loaf of bread and the jug of wine. You do the rest....
903 2011-10-24 Mike Napoli hit a two-run double in the eighth inning to complete the Rangers comeback as Texas won the pivotal Game 5 to take a 3-2 series lead....
904 2011-10-24 Follow along for live updates and analysis from Game 5 of the World Series between the Cardinals and Rangers....
905 2011-10-24 The new Samsung MV800 has a flip-up three-inch rear screen that makes it perfect for self-portraits....
906 2011-10-24 The new Samsung MV800 has a flip-up three-inch rear screen that makes it perfect for self-portraits....
907 2011-10-24 Netflix’s stock fell sharply after the company announced it had lost 800,000 U.S. subscribers in three months after years of growth....
908 2011-10-24 Netflix says it lost 800,000 subscribers in the United States in three months, a notable decline after years of consistent growth. Its stock fell sharply after the announcement....
909 2011-10-24 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
910 2011-10-24 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
911 2011-10-24 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
912 2011-10-24 Being overweight as a teenager carries a greater risk of being an overweight adult, along with an increased risk of dying from heart disease. But overweight adolescents who slim down in middle age may lower their risk, a new study shows....
913 2011-10-24 Being overweight as a teenager carries a greater risk of being an overweight adult, along with an increased risk of dying from heart disease. But overweight adolescents who slim down in middle age may lower their risk, a new study shows....
914 2011-10-24 White Collar Watch looks at what was left out of the guilty plea agreement made by Drew K. Brownstein, a Denver-based hedge fund manager....
915 2011-10-24 White Collar Watch looks at what was left out of the guilty plea agreement made by Drew K. Brownstein, a Denver-based hedge fund manager....
916 2011-10-24 How is it possible that so few people know what their actual credit-card debt is?...
917 2011-10-24 How is it possible that so few people know what their actual credit-card debt is?...
918 2011-10-24 The Missoni for Target collection sold out within days, creating a reborn demand for all things Missoni - or at least a passable facsimile of the house's kaleidoscopic multitone wares....
919 2011-10-24 The Missoni for Target collection sold out within days, creating a reborn demand for all things Missoni - or at least a passable facsimile of the house's kaleidoscopic multitone wares....
920 2011-10-24 Reading for the week that was....
921 2011-10-24 We are going to collect more information about ourselves and the world than we knew existed. Expect a bust, along with a benefit....
922 2011-10-24 We are going to collect more information about ourselves and the world than we knew existed. Expect a bust, along with a benefit....
923 2011-10-24 Knowing when to refinance, whether to retire at 65, museums staying open late and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times....
924 2011-10-24 Knowing when to refinance, whether to retire at 65, museums staying open late and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times....
925 2011-10-24 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
926 2011-10-24 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
927 2011-10-24 Whether the growing economic insecurity of women will affect how they vote remains to be seen, an economist writes....
928 2011-10-24 Whether the growing economic insecurity of women will affect how they vote remains to be seen, an economist writes....
929 2011-10-24 BERN, Switzerland (AP) — Swiss voters backed moderate parties in their general election on Sunday, and the nationalist Swiss People’s Party lost ground after mounting a campaign heavy on anti-immigrant sentiment.

The nationalists were projected to take 25.9 percent of the vote for the lower house, a drop from four years ago, according to projections from the public television station SF early Monday.

On the left, the Green Party also suffered a surprising setback, taking 7.9 percent of the vote. Both the People’s Party and the Greens were projected to lose seats in Switzerland’s lower chamber, the 200-member National Council.

The results halted 20 years of steady growth by the People’s Party in parliamentary elections, which are held every four years. The party, which drew just 11 percent of the vote in 1987, rose to capture 28.9 percent in 2007, while support eroded for two of the major center-right parties, the Free Democrats and the Christian Democrats.

Two other centrist parties — the Conservative Democrats, who split from the People’s Party in 2007, and the Green Liberal Party — were the beneficiaries of the nationalists’ decline. The Green Liberals in particular rode a wave of antinuclear sentiment stoked by the disaster at the Fukushima Daiichi power plant in Japan in March.

The number of political parties in Switzerland makes for intense haggling after every election, as each group demands fair representation in the country’s seven-member cabinet, which governs by consensus despite the sometimes widely differing views of its members.

Despite its setback, the People’s Party won the most votes, and it immediately laid claim to two seats in the cabinet, whose ministers run federal agencies and take turns serving as president for a year.
930 2011-10-24 Last year, as Ms. Mennella and Ms. Schuster were planning a high school reunion, Mr. Helt’s disappearance, on Jan. 16, 1987, came up. The two abandoned the reunion and teamed up with Beth Churchill, Mr. Helt’s aunt, who had begun posting missing persons fliers.

The women took up his case with zeal: They created a Facebook page. They made buttons. They organized the vigil. And they contacted a private investigator, Robert Rahn, a former New York Police Department homicide detective; he agreed to help the women pro bono.

But the flurry of activity has rekindled old tensions: Missing persons fliers posted elsewhere in Ellenville have continued to vanish, and bitter debate spilled onto the group’s Facebook page, called Justice for Joe, after comments focused on three friends of Mr. Helt’s. The friends were the last to see the teenager alive and were never suspects in his disappearance.

“They were the last people with him before he disappeared and vaporized,” Ms. Mennella, 42, said. “Unfortunately for them, it’s going to come back up whether we want it to or not.”

Mr. Helt began that night, a Friday, at Mount Cathalia, an abandoned ski lodge a few miles outside Ellenville, about 90 miles north of New York City. Once a well-known party spot, the lodge was a place to drink beer around a fireplace in the depths of winter, said Armando Rodriguez, a friend of Mr. Helt’s who was there that night.

Mr. Helt left the lodge with three friends — John LaForge, Wade Marks and Kelly Diaz — in Mr. LaForge’s Subaru and headed for Sam’s Point Road, said Capt. Joseph Tripodo of the State Police.

The car became stuck in snow on the side of the road, which winds through a preserve in the Shawangunk Ridge marked by caves and deep crevices. A frustrated Mr. Helt walked down the mountain alone, Captain Tripodo said.

It was the last time Mr. Helt’s friends saw him.

“Did he get to the bottom, or didn’t he get to the bottom? We don’t know,” Captain Tripodo said. “There’s no evidence. He disappeared without a trace.”

The police do not believe Mr. Helt was so intoxicated that he may have veered off the road and fallen into a crevice, as a former village police chief, George Sheeley, suggested in a recent interview.

Mr. Sheeley was among the first to go in search of Mr. Helt. State Police, forest rangers and friends followed, though their efforts were blunted by a snowstorm that descended on the area.

Searches have continued over the years, with some as recent as this summer and fall, all to no avail, Captain Tripodo said.

Because Mr. Helt’s case is active, Captain Tripodo offered few details of the investigation.

The tension that resurfaced last year was present in the days after Mr. Helt vanished.

German Florez, a close friend of Mr. Diaz’s, recalled how three friends of Mr. Helt’s visited Mr. Florez’s home in Ellenville. Mr. Diaz was there at the time, and the friends accused him of knowing what happened to Mr. Helt.

“They were pressing,” said Mr. Florez, who now lives in Greenville, N.Y. “They said, ‘We know you know something.’ One of them took a swing and he missed.”

Jay Greco, one of the men who confronted Mr. Diaz, recently recalled that he did not believe that Mr. Helt abandoned his friends.

“He didn’t get mad and walk away,” said Mr. Greco, 45, who now lives in Florida.

The State Police interviewed Mr. Diaz and Mr. Marks, both classmates of Mr. Helt’s, and Mr. LaForge, who was 21, Captain Tripodo said, adding that the men abandoned Mr. LaForge’s car and walked home shortly after Mr. Helt left.

Though the authorities considered the men persons of interest who “offered us information,” Captain Tripodo said, the police found no evidence of a crime.

Repeated efforts to interview the men were unsuccessful. A relative of Mr. LaForge’s who spoke to Mr. LaForge on behalf of a reporter and did not wish to be identified said Mr. LaForge refused to comment.

Mr. Florez said that Mr. Diaz was “so disgusted by everything” that he did not wish to discuss the matter. Mr. Marks, who a relative said does not live in New York, could not be reached.

Mr. Rahn, who has interviewed friends, relatives and others with information about Mr. Helt, said re-interviewing the men was critical. But because Mr. Helt’s case is open, a State Police investigator asked Mr. Rahn not to interview them, Mr. Rahn said. On the Facebook page, some commenters have focused on the men, saying they know more than they have revealed. Others have said the story of that January night makes little sense: If Mr. Helt left to walk home to Ellenville or to get help, such a walk would have required a long trek on a bitterly cold night.

“Why didn’t one of his so-called friends go with him while the others waited in the car?” one commenter wrote.

In response, someone wrote that such commenters were “big mouths” who were speculating.

To Mr. Florez, who defended Mr. Diaz on the Facebook page, the comments seemed like the grumblings of a frustrated mob.

“Nobody has a shred of proof,” he said in an interview, adding that Mr. Diaz considered himself close to Mr. Helt.

“You can see when you bring it up; you can see the pain in his eyes,” Mr. Florez said.

Despite the recent friction, Ms. Mennella said she hoped the group’s efforts would help find Mr. Helt.

“We just want to know where he is,” she said. “At this point, he deserves to have a service.”
931 2011-10-24 Top-seeded Gaël Monfils beat Jarkko Nieminen, 7-5, 3-6, 6-2, in the Stockholm Open final for his first title of the year. It was the fourth career ATP Tour title for the 10th-ranked Monfils, who had been hampered by a knee injury.

¶ Top-seeded Janko Tipsarevic beat the defending champion, Viktor Troicki, 6-4, 6-2, at the Kremlin Cup in Moscow in the first all-Serb ATP final. Dominika Cibulkova won her first career WTA title, rallying to beat Kaia Kanepi, 3-6, 7-6 (1), 7-5, in the women’s final. (AP)
932 2011-10-24 Ted Ligety completed an American double at the season-opening World Cup weekend by winning the giant slalom in Sölden, Austria, on Sunday, a day after Lindsey Vonn won her first giant slalom title.

Ligety kept his lead from the first run to finish in an aggregate 2 minutes 22.00 seconds. Alexis Pinturault of France was second, 0.29 back. Bode Miller took ninth for his second top-10 finish in giant slalom since October 2008.
933 2011-10-24 We support the call by your editorial board and several public officials for a federal investigation into the stop-and-frisk policies of the New York Police Department.

The recent allegation that a Staten Island police officer fabricated charges against a person of color after he protested being stopped for no reason, together with the disturbing statistics that the vast majority of those stopped by the N.Y.P.D. are black or Hispanic, continues to raise troubling questions about the fairness of these policies.

Too many young men of color are being needlessly brought into the criminal justice system, only to come out with a criminal record, thereby limiting their future prospects. It is time for an in-depth investigation of this situation, which can be done only by the federal government.

KEVIN D. O’CONNELL

 President, New York State

 Assn. of Criminal Defense Lawyers

 New York, Oct. 20, 2011
934 2011-10-24 People can still easily find less expensive alternatives, with less distinctive and refined designs, to most Apple products. Within the premium product categories where Apple is most at home though, comparable devices often do no better than match or slightly undercut Apple’s prices. “They’re not cheap, but I don’t think they’re viewed as high-priced anymore,” said Stewart Alsop, a longtime venture capitalist in San Francisco.

Apple declined to comment for this article.

Prices in the ultrathin notebook category are an illustration of Apple’s strategy. While there are much cheaper laptops for sale, ranging all the way down to bargain-basement netbooks that cost a few hundred dollars, Apple’s MacBook Air has become a hit among computer users seeking the thinnest and lightest notebooks available. The product starts at $999 for a model with an 11-inch screen.

On Oct. 11, the Taiwanese computer maker Asus introduced its answer to the MacBook Air, a sleek device that uses Windows. But it was unable to undercut Apple; the Asus computer also starts at $999. Samsung’s wafer-thin Series 9 notebook, with comparable features, costs $1,049.

The computer maker Acer, however, began undercutting the cheapest MacBook Air this month with an $899 ultrathin notebook, the Aspire S series, that has a bigger screen.

The original MacBook Air catered to a more rarefied audience when it came out in early 2008, priced at a whopping $1,799 for a model with a 13-inch screen. A year ago Apple revamped the notebook to make it thinner and smaller and reduced its entry-level prices to $999 and $1,299 for models with 11-inch and 13-inch screens. Jean-Louis Gassée, a venture capitalist and former Apple executive, said there was a “collective gasp” at how low Apple priced the new MacBook Air.

The aggressive pricing, analysts say, reflects Apple’s ability to use its growing manufacturing scale to push down costs for the crucial parts that make up its devices. Apple has also shown a willingness to tap into its huge war chest — $82 billion in cash and marketable securities last quarter — to take big gambles by locking up supplies of parts for years, as it did in 2005 when it struck a five-year, $1.25 billion deal with manufacturers to secure flash memory chips for its iPods and other devices.

By buying up manufacturing capacity ahead of time, Apple forces its competitors to scramble for the parts that are still available, raising costs for their products, analysts say. Apple is the biggest buyer of flash memory chips in the world, according to the research firm iSuppli.

Mr. Gassée said Apple’s pricing decision on the MacBook Air made it clear that Apple’s management of its supply chain had become a “strategic weapon.”

Another example of that was Apple’s decision to price the entry-level iPad at $499 when it was introduced early last year, hundreds of dollars lower than many analysts expected. “I think everyone was stunned at the cost of the iPad,” said John Gallaugher, an associate professor of information systems at Boston College. “It was a very competitively priced device.”

For a time, Apple’s biggest competitors were unable to go below the iPad’s price with their own tablets. When Motorola Mobility Holding’s Xoom tablet hit the market in February, the cheapest model available without a wireless service contract was $800. Motorola later released an entry-level model with more storage than the least expensive iPad, priced at $599.

After lackluster sales, Apple’s major competitors are now finally undercutting the iPad on price, though it is not clear how sustainable that approach is. Motorola recently announced a plan to offer an entry-level Xoom tablet for $379 at Best Buy stores for a limited time. After Hewlett-Packard, having missed sales goals, announced plans to discontinue its TouchPad line of tablets, it dropped the price of its cheapest model to a fire-sale $99.

The most credible challenge to the iPad is likely to come from Amazon’s $199 Kindle Fire tablet, which goes on sale in November. While analysts say they believe Amazon will lose money on each device sold, the Internet retailer’s plan is to use the device to encourage purchases of other Amazon products and services, like e-books. Toni Sacconaghi, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, said the price of the iPad reflected a “mind-set change” at Apple after the introduction of the first iPhone in 2007, which started at $499. That was an eye-popping sum for a phone in markets like the United States, where people had become accustomed to getting lower-price, carrier-subsidized phones in exchange for committing to long wireless contracts.

Only a few months after the product went on sale, Apple cut $200 off the price of the high-end model of the iPhone, to $399. Apple shifted gears again in 2008 with a new model called the iPhone 3G that it priced at $199, after beginning to accept handset subsidies from its carrier partners, something it did not do with its first version of the phone. Carriers pay Apple more for the latest iPhones — around $600 each, analysts estimate — aiming to profit by locking consumers into wireless plans.

Mr. Sacconaghi said Apple’s pricing of the original iPhone and its exclusive distribution deal with AT&T in the United States at the time created an opening for Google and its handset partners to flood the market with phones running its Android operating system.

While Apple’s iPhone business is thriving, Android handsets accounted for 43.4 percent of the worldwide smartphone market in the second quarter, compared with 18.2 percent for Apple, the research firm Gartner estimates.

Many carriers now offer older Android handsets that cost customers nothing if they sign up for two-year contracts. And now even Apple is getting into that act: when it announced its latest iPhone model this month, it said its two-year-old iPhone 3GS would be free with a two-year contract.
935 2011-10-24 Many of the candidates’ proposals concerning the federal courts would, even with Congressional backing, face daunting constitutional obstacles. Yet Congress can limit spending on the courts, short of cutting judges’ salaries, and it may well be able to narrow the jurisdiction of the federal courts in important ways.

The candidates’ criticism reflects a growing desire among conservatives for a return to a court system that they say the country’s founders envisioned.

The political calculus is similar, too. The rise of the in states like Iowa and has created a receptive audience for candidates who raise doubts about whether the court system is hindering the causes that these voters believe in.

“These threats go far beyond normal campaign season posturing,” said Bert Brandenburg, executive director of Justice at Stake, a research and advocacy group that seeks to protect judicial independence. “They sound populist, but the proposal is to make courts answer to politicians and interest groups.”

, the former governor of , has so far shied away from the far-reaching criticisms of his rivals. At a conservative forum in South Carolina, he dismissed the idea of a Congressional confrontation with the Supreme Court over , saying, “I’m not looking to create a constitutional crisis.”

But his rivals have shown no such reluctance in attacking a federal court system in which their side has achieved significant victories.

The Supreme Court delivered the presidency to , interpreted the Second Amendment to guarantee an individual right to bear arms and allowed corporations and unions to spend unlimited amounts of money in elections. And many Republicans are looking to the Supreme Court for vindication in the political battle with over his .

The Republican candidates have focused their anger at court rulings on social issues like abortion, same-sex marriage and the role of religion in public life. Those issues hold the potential to fire up the party’s base and to provide crucial support in the primaries.

“There’s an even more dramatic overstep on the part of the courts now,” said Marjorie Dannenfelser, the president of the Susan B. Anthony List, a conservative legal advocacy group. “With the grass-roots revolution on the ground and the Tea Party movement, there’s a desire for a return back to first principles.”

“I don’t think it’s an anticourt movement,” Ms. Dannenfelser added. “It’s a purifying of the court — trying to return it to where it should be.”

Hogan Gidley, a senior adviser to Mr. Santorum, said that on the campaign trail, the courts issue plays well with “those who care about the Constitution and the legal system.” Mr. Gidley added: “They move to the edge of their chairs. They want to know what he’s going to do with the court system. It absolutely resonates.”

In attacking the courts, the Republican candidates sometimes seem to hedge their vows to remain faithful to the Constitution. Many of their proposals aimed at curtailing the power of the courts would require the document to be amended.

Section 1 of Article III, for instance, confers life tenure on federal judges, saying they “shall hold their offices during good behavior.” But Mr. Perry, in his book “Fed Up!,” wrote approvingly of proposals “to institute term limits on what are now lifetime appointments for federal judges, particularly those on the Supreme Court or the circuit courts, which have so much power.”

Whatever the difficulty of achieving that change, it is not without support in legal circles. “Perry’s idea has been advanced by me and numerous other academic critics of the court,” said Paul D. Carrington, a law professor at Duke. “On this point, he is absolutely right.”

In his book, Mr. Perry also discussed allowing Congress to override Supreme Court decisions by a two-thirds vote. This too would require a constitutional amendment, assuming that the power of judicial review established in Marbury v. Madison in 1803 continues to be accepted.

But the Marbury decision, which gave the Supreme Court the last word in interpreting the Constitution, has its critics. Mr. Gingrich, for instance, told the Values Voter Summit in October that “judicial supremacy is factually wrong, it is morally wrong and it is an affront to the American system of self-government.”

Mr. Gingrich, joined by Mrs. Bachmann and Mr. Paul, has called for limiting the federal courts’ ability to hear certain kinds of cases. Whether that would be constitutional is hard to assess.

“The question of the extent of Congress’s power to control the jurisdiction of the federal courts is one of the most contested and unsettled in constitutional law,” said Vicki C. Jackson, a law professor at Harvard.

Mrs. Bachmann and Mr. Paul have taken an aggressive stance. “We have it within our authority to decide what judges can rule on and what they can’t,” Mrs. Bachmann said in Iowa in April. Mr. Paul has written that “Congress could statutorily remove whole issues like gay marriage from the federal judiciary.”

Section 2 of Article III of the Constitution provides that the Supreme Court generally “shall have appellate jurisdiction, both as to law and fact, with such exceptions, and under such regulations as the Congress shall make.”

Section 1 of the article suggests that Congress may have even more power over the lower federal courts: “The judicial power of the , shall be vested in one Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish.”

Still, the suggestions from Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Santorum concerning the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, which hears cases from federal district courts in nine Western states, are particularly bold. In February, Mr. Santorum told a Tea Party group in South Carolina that he would “sign a bill tomorrow to eliminate the Ninth Circuit,” adding: “That court is rogue. It’s a pox on the western part of our country.”

Criticism of the Ninth Circuit as too liberal is commonplace, and calls to split it into two or more parts have been floated for decades. But the idea of leaving the western third of the nation without a federal appeals court of its own appears to be a new one.

And although the Constitution forbids Congress from cutting federal judges’ pay, Mr. Gingrich has proposed ways that the power of the purse could be used to discipline that court.

“Congress can say, ‘All right, in the future, the Ninth Circuit can meet, but it will have no clerks,’ ” Mr. Gingrich told the Values Voter Summit.  “ ‘By the way, we aren’t going to pay the electric bill for two years. And since you seem to be rendering justice in the dark, you don’t seem to need your law library, either.’ ”
936 2011-10-25 Billy Joel is among the many musicians who love Emilio's Ballato....
937 2011-10-25 Billy Joel is among the many musicians who love Emilio's Ballato....
938 2011-10-25 There is little MF Global and Netflix have in common, except for the fact that the stocks of both companies plunged on Tuesday after a spate of bad news....
939 2011-10-25 There is little MF Global and Netflix have in common, except for the fact that the stocks of both companies plunged on Tuesday after a spate of bad news....
940 2011-10-25 A brutal stock market reaction to Netflix's subscriber losses has left the company with a market value about one-quarter of what it once was....
941 2011-10-25 A brutal stock market reaction to Netflix's subscriber losses has left the company with a market value about one-quarter of what it once was....
942 2011-10-25 He is in final negotiations for a job at another restaurant, the name of which he said he is not ready to reveal....
943 2011-10-25 He is in final negotiations for a job at another restaurant, the name of which he said he is not ready to reveal....
944 2011-10-25 The Detroit automaker continued to be criticized for its MyFord Touch infotainment system, while Japanese manufacturers maintained their dominance....
945 2011-10-25 The Detroit automaker continued to be criticized for its MyFord Touch infotainment system, while Japanese manufacturers maintained their dominance....
946 2011-10-25 Two short films individually examine two seemingly disparate subjects and their respective influences on public space in 1960s and '70s American suburbia....
947 2011-10-25 Two short films individually examine two seemingly disparate subjects and their respective influences on public space in 1960s and '70s American suburbia....
948 2011-10-25 What was your favorite pared-down video, concert or otherwise, from the 1980s or 1990s?...
949 2011-10-25 What was your favorite pared-down video, concert or otherwise, from the 1980s or 1990s?...
950 2011-10-25 Rick Perry keeps bringing up Mr. Obama's birth certificate, despite the political risks....
951 2011-10-25 Rick Perry keeps bringing up Mr. Obama's birth certificate, despite the political risks....
952 2011-10-25 Some banks' online application processes aren't as seamless as they should be, according to a new Javelin research report....
953 2011-10-25 Some banks' online application processes aren't as seamless as they should be, according to a new Javelin research report....
954 2011-10-25 The Rangers were not sharp, but still managed to beat the Jets in Winnipeg to wrap up their season-opening road trip....
955 2011-10-25 The Rangers were not sharp, but still managed to beat the Jets in Winnipeg to wrap up their season-opening road trip....
956 2011-10-25 Outsiders who have tried out the product are impressed by its stylish design, ease of use and advanced features, like motion-tracking sensors that detect whether people are present and adjust room temperatures accordingly. But it remains to be seen whether consumers and contractors will pay more for a high-tech thermostat, when good enough has been good enough for decades.

There are other digital thermostats on the market, like the Honeywell Vision Pro and the Filtrete by 3M. Yet they have been slow to catch on, and their features often go unused because they are ungainly and people find them difficult to program, said Russ Donnici, president of Mechanical Air Service, a heating and cooling contractor based in San Jose, Calif. By contrast, the Nest product is small, and temperatures are set by turning its outer ring and pushing in the ring until it clicks.

The project “kind of brings the thermostat into the 21st century,” said Mr. Donnici, who has advised Nest Labs without pay.

But the Nest device costs twice as much as the most comparable programmable thermostats on the market.

Homes account for more than 10 percent of the total energy consumption in America, including transportation. About half of the residential energy consumed is for heating and cooling, with the rest going for lighting, heating water, appliances, televisions and computers.

Each degree cooler a house is kept in a heating season (winter), or warmer in a cooling season (summer), translates to a 5 percent energy saving. So shifting consumption patterns, say, four degrees on average can mean energy savings of 20 percent, experts say.

Since the average home spends $1,000 to $1,500 a year on heating and cooling, that would translate to $200 to $300 in lower energy bills. It would also mean fewer power plants built and lower carbon emissions.

“There is a huge amount that can be gained in homes, and an intelligent thermostat could be a great opportunity,” said John E. Bowers, director of the Institute for Energy Efficiency at the University of California, Santa Barbara, who has not seen the Nest device.

After leaving Apple, Mr. Fadell traveled with his family for most of a year and began building an energy-thrifty “green” home in Lake Tahoe, Calif. As part of that project, he looked at thermostats and found them lacking in design and utility. “They’re ugly, they waste energy and there’s been no real innovation in decades,” he said.

Mr. Fadell studied the technology and the industry and decided there was an opening. His first recruit was Matt Rogers, who at the time led a staff of 30 engineers in the iPod division at Apple. They met to discuss the idea in October 2009, Mr. Rogers was intrigued, and in May 2010, he became a co-founder of Nest Labs.

“I loved my job at Apple, and had a great team,” Mr. Rogers said. “But in essence, we were building toys. At Nest, you can build a product that could have a huge impact on a big problem.”

The Nest Labs recruits hail from Apple, Google, Microsoft, Twitter, Logitech and other high-tech companies. Unlike other thermostat manufacturers, Nest Labs has a sizable team of specialists in the branch of artificial intelligence called machine learning, including Yoky Matsuoka, who came from Google and whose work won a MacArthur Foundation award.

Nest Labs has also attracted a crowd of venture investors. The start-up will not say how much it has raised, but the backers include Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, Google Ventures, Lightspeed Venture Partners, Intertrust, Shasta Ventures and Generation Investment Management, an investment firm co-founded by Al Gore.

Despite the high cost of the Nest device, Mr. Fadell contends it will pay for itself in a year in energy-savings, with scant effort from the user.

At first, a person may set the thermostat four times in one day — upon getting up, going to work, getting back from work and going to bed. The thermostat uses those settings daily, then adapts to further changes. If a person is out of town each Monday on business, the Nest sensors detect that and switch to an “auto away” setting for lower energy use.

“You can, but you don’t have to program it, because it learns,” Mr. Fadell said.

The Nest thermostat will initially be available on the company’s Web site and through Best Buy’s site. Consumers can install it themselves or hire a professional. The company is also working with contractors, which distribute 70 percent of thermostats sold.

An estimated 10 million thermostats a year are sold as replacements and in remodeling. A few percent of that market, Mr. Fadell says, would make Nest Labs a winner. Yet to break through, analysts say, the company must alter the buying habits of consumers, retailers and contractors in an industry unaccustomed to Silicon Valley-style disruption.

“Complacency is the biggest challenge,” Mr. Fadell said.
957 2011-10-25 Texas Instruments, the maker of analog semiconductors, forecast lower fourth-quarter sales than some analysts had estimated, indicating that demand for electronic components remained sluggish.

Revenue will be $3.26 billion to $3.54 billion in the period, the company said in a statement on Monday. Doug Freedman, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets, had estimated $3.57 billion for the period. This is the first quarter that Texas Instruments is including its acquisition of National Semiconductor acquisition in the forecasts.

Profit in the fourth quarter, including costs related to the acquisition of National Semiconductor, will be 28 cents to 36 cents a share, the company said.

“Economic uncertainty continues to weigh on demand in almost every major market segment in which we operate,” Richard K. Templeton, the company’s chief executive, said in the statement.

Third-quarter profit fell to $601 million, or 51 cents a share, from $859 million, or 71 cents, a year earlier. Revenue declined 7.3 percent to $3.47 billion.

On Sept. 8, Texas Instruments said profit in the third quarter would be 56 to 60 cents a share on sales of $3.23 billion to $3.37 billion, citing a slump across its product lines.
958 2011-10-25 Joe Nocera did some good work in trying to articulate the source of our latest outburst of ugly political and social behavior. Alas, I think that he may not have gone back far enough.

I am old enough to recall the viciousness of the verbal attacks by conservative Republicans against President Franklin D. Roosevelt as he pushed through the New Deal to alleviate the horrors of the Great Depression. And I remember most vividly the era of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, the Wisconsin Republican, and all of the maliciousness of his accusations toward so many who were not guilty of those things with which he charged them.

To suggest that today’s acrid political attempts to debate our social problems may have started with the nomination of Robert H. Bork to the Supreme Court may be somewhat shortsighted.

Joe Nocera doesn’t mention the real reason Robert H. Bork was unacceptable as a Supreme Court justice in 1987.

Mr. Bork first came to public attention in 1973 as the official who carried out President Richard M. Nixon’s wish to fire Archibald Cox, the Watergate special prosecutor, after Attorney General Elliot Richardson (and his deputy, William Ruckelshaus) had resigned in protest.
959 2011-10-25 The human cost of this week’s earthquake comes as Turkey fights to keep its once-booming economy on track. Ankara is playing a high-risk game by intervening in markets to shore up its currency and lacks the reserves to do so. Turkey will struggle to avoid adopting higher interest rates to shore up its currency, the lira, even though that may push a previously overheating economy toward recession.

Until recently, Turkey sought to restrict hot money inflows by keeping interest rates down. But that allowed growth to roar and the trade deficit to soar. Now, its huge external deficit — coupled with rising inflation and a lira that has lost a quarter of its value this year — is making Turkey’s unorthodox response to hot money glut look a mistake.

According to the central bank, short-term external debt with a maturity of less than one year amounted to $135.5 billion in August. In addition, Turkey has to finance a deficit on the current account, the broadest measure of trade, that may approach $75 billion, or about 10 percent of its gross domestic product, this year. The central bank’s foreign exchange reserves stand at $85 billion, or enough to cover about five months of imports, which is unusually low. It can ill-afford to intervene in the currency market.

There are some signs it may adopt a more realistic stance. The central bank warned last week that inflation would rise significantly because of the “recent excessive depreciation” of the lira. Yet it only raised the overnight lending rate, to 12.5 percent from 9 percent. That makes it more expensive to speculate against the lira. The key policy interest rate was held at 5.75 percent, below inflation of 6.2 percent.

The central bank hopes for a soft landing as a weak euro zone weighs on exports and growth. And the economy has strengths: undoubted dynamism, low public debt of 40 percent of gross domestic product and a modest fiscal deficit close to 2 percent of G.D.P. But Turkey has let money inflows knock its economy off balance. Higher interest rates seem certain to be needed to shore up the lira and control inflation. Combined with the earthquake, that means Turkey’s landing could be painfully hard.

Mattel’s $680 million purchase of Hit Entertainment — the company behind the children’s characters Bob the Builder and Thomas the Tank Engine — brings to a close a sorry tale of private equity ownership under Apax Partners. But uniting Bob the Builder with Barbie does not necessarily mean they’ll live happily ever after.

With Hit, Apax Partners seems to have fallen short as a builder of businesses and as a financial engineer. Hit is worth less, and has lower revenue, than at its 2005 buyout. Sales were £148 million in its 2004 fiscal year, its last year as a public company, or about $236 million at current exchange rates. Now sales are about $180 million. The current deal values Hit at about £60 million less than in 2005. Hit’s stake in a television channel is still to be sold, which could narrow that gap.
960 2011-10-25 Despite the decline in subscribers, the company did well financially in the quarter. It reported net income of $62.5 million, or $1.16, a share, compared with $38 million, or 70 cents a share, in the year-earlier quarter. Revenue rose 49 percent to $822 million. Both revenue and income topped analysts’ expectations.

Like many other companies built in Silicon Valley, Netflix prides itself on its analytical, data-driven approach to making decisions. But it made a classic business misstep. In its reliance on data and long-term strategy, the company underestimated the unquantifiable emotions of subscribers who still want those little red envelopes, even if they forget to ever watch the DVDs inside.

Mr. Hastings said in an interview last week, his most detailed discussion yet of the bruising period, that he had been guilty of overconfidence and of “moving too quickly.” But he said he still believed — as do nearly all investors and analysts — that Netflix’s future lay not in DVDs but in streaming over the Internet. “We still need to move quickly in streaming,” he said.

Twice in the interview, Mr. Hastings linked the hostility toward Netflix’s price change and proposed breakup to the angry mood of the country, even citing the Tea Party and the Occupy Wall Street movement by name.

He said — and repeated it on a conference call for investors on Monday evening — that subscribers had been bothered more by the summer price shock than by the breakup plan. Until September, a combination of video streams and DVDs cost as little as $10 a month; now, that same package costs $16. “We are done with pricing changes,” Netflix said Monday in a letter to shareholders.

Mr. Hastings said he was not sure whether the plan to split the company had been presented to customer focus groups before it was made public. Mr. Hastings said he assumed it had been. But he said he did not recall what those focus groups had said about the plan.

He said Netflix was now trying to slow its decision-making to ensure that there was more room for debate about major changes at the company.

How Netflix came to be so out of touch with its customers is a cautionary tale for other companies that try to transform to new media from old. As the company’s streaming Internet service caught on with consumers, subscriber numbers soared and, with them, the company’s stock, rising ninefold from the start of 2009 to peak above $300 in July.

Last year, Fortune magazine put Mr. Hastings, 51, on its cover as the businessperson of the year after he seemed to pull off the rare feat of finessing the “innovator’s dilemma” by navigating Netflix to the digital future from its DVD rental business.

A key to its success was the way it blended its new and legacy businesses. While the library of material available for streaming was relatively sparse because of Hollywood licensing restrictions, Netflix customers could find many of those missing movies, especially new releases, in the company’s far larger DVD selection.

But Netflix needed to spend more money to license additional material for its streaming service. Collecting $10 a month from subscribers was insufficient as costs ballooned. Mr. Hastings defended the increase last week and again on Monday, but he said it was “too big a price change all at once.” Hubris played a big role in the errors, he said.

For well over a year, all the signs seemed to indicate to Netflix that customers were ready to move quickly to a future in which movies and TV shows would come to them instantly over the Internet instead of in the mail. Mr. Hastings said the decision to form Qwikster, as the mailed DVD company was to be called, had been based in part on data that showed a faster-than-anticipated increase in streaming by its customers.

In the first quarter of this year, for the first time, DVD shipments were down year over year, leading Netflix to declare that the DVD business had peaked. “Very few” new subscribers were choosing to get DVDs in the mail, Mr. Hastings said.

Stuart Skorman, a Bay Area entrepreneur who previously ran a chain of movie rental stores and an Internet movie venture, last year worked with Netflix managers after licensing to the company a database of movie recommendations. He said he was struck at that time by how little Netflix seemed to care about its DVD rental business.

“I think they should have been paying much more attention to it because that was their customer base,” he said. “That’s what made them special.”

Steve Swasey, a Netflix spokesman, disputed the idea that the company did not care about its DVD business, saying it was still acquiring discs for the service and was focused on speedy delivery of movies.

The breakup announcement in September seemed “very data-driven,” said Rich Greenfield, a media analyst for BTIG Research. “I think the company thought, because many people aren’t watching the DVDs, let’s accelerate the transition.”

What the company seemed not to respect was the premium that consumers place on having options — even if they don’t actually take advantage of all those options. Just ask any all-you-can-eat buffet operator, or a gym owner who sells six-month memberships.

Netflix’s red envelopes “were basically occupying slots in between the couch cushions for long periods of time,” Mr. Greenfield said. “But even if there wasn’t usage of the DVDs, there was a perception of value.”

Mr. Hastings said he expected that the DVD-by-mail business would “last a long time.” He identified two long-term markets for it: rural customers who cannot or do not have broadband Internet access for streaming, and “film school types” who want a comprehensive catalog of old films.

The scrapped plan to form Qwikster has led to speculation among analysts and executives, like Mr. Skorman, that Mr. Hastings wants to sell Netflix. While Netflix beat big rivals in the DVD rental business, like Blockbuster and Wal-Mart, it faces an increasing phalanx of formidable players in streaming movies, like Apple, Amazon and Hulu.

Mr. Hastings denied he had any such plans. “Mercenary C.E.O.’s are always preparing for a sale, and missionary ones are always preparing for the long term,” he said. “I’m clearly in the latter camp.”
961 2011-10-25 The general prosecutor’s office on Monday said that it had reopened another criminal case against Yulia V. Tymoshenko, the opposition leader and a former prime minister. Ms. Tymoshenko is already serving a seven-year sentence on charges that have been condemned in the West as politically motivated. The reopened case, which dates back 15 years to her tenure as head of United Energy Systems of Ukraine, alleges that she embezzled about $3 million from the federal budget and evaded paying about $2.5 million in taxes. The case was closed in 2005, after Ms. Tymoshenko became prime minister. The announcement further dims hopes that she will be released and allowed to take part in 2012 parliamentary elections, which European leaders have said is a precondition for completing free trade and association agreements between Ukraine and the European Union.
962 2011-10-25 Now, a local property owner, John Grant, who developed the Grant Mews, an 18-unit condo complex completed in 1990, is looking to take advantage of the rise in values and retire. He has listed a four-family town house at 486 Warren with exposed brick, wood-burning fireplaces and an annual rent roll of $87,600 for $2.5 million, or $658 per square foot — about $35 less than two multifamily houses that sold this year on Bergen Street. There is also a 2,400-square-foot duplex at the Grant Mews on the market for $1.7 million, or $708 per square foot.

Joan Joseph-Alexander, who is marketing the town house through her company Ambassador Realty, said she arrived at the price after looking at sales in the ZIP code and factoring in the appeal of living within walking distance of the Barclays Center, the arena under construction at Atlantic Yards, but shielded from the traffic and noise it is expected to bring.

“We were down; now we are up,” Ms. Joseph-Alexander said of the Brooklyn market as she waited on Sunday for prospective buyers at an open house. (They never showed up.)

She added that the influx of a professional class had increased the police presence in the area. “When the market is down, the projects are a factor,” she said. “When it is up, the projects aren’t a factor.”

A recent study from the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at New York University suggests this is true, finding that higher-income households, particularly renters and first-time homebuyers, are more likely to move into relatively low-income neighborhoods in cities where house values are climbing rapidly. Another study from the center found that federally subsidized housing in New York did not typically depress values within a roughly four-block radius.

“In New York City I think we’ve seen upward pressure on property values in a much broader variety of neighborhoods than we had 20 years ago, including many neighborhoods that are abutting and surrounding public housing,” said Ingrid Gould Ellen, co-director of the center and a co-author of both papers. She named Chelsea, Boerum Hill and Red Hook as among the many neighborhoods with large public housing developments and “very, very high property values.”

On Warren Street, that juxtaposition has some of the longtime residents concerned.

“I bought this house for $17,000 in 1972,” said Charlie Soule, a retired administrator with the Education Department, shaking her head in disbelief at the $2.5 million asking price for 486 Warren. Back then, she said, the block felt safer because she knew all her neighbors — something that is no longer true. “I feel like I’ve sort of outlived my time on the block,” she said.

Mike Rodriguez, who grew up in the house a few doors down and still lives there with his family, had a similar take.

“You got too much ‘ippity’ folks around here,” he said. “They’re uppity, but I call them ‘ippity,’ ” he added, laughing and brushing his hand under his chin. “They look at you like you don’t belong here.”

Residents say that they do not worry so much about the presence of public housing as about what they see as a lack of police enforcement in driving away drug traffic. Dealers hang out at the corner of Bond, where a 16-year-old girl was shot to death last year, said Steven Turner Hart, a writer who has lived on the block since 1998. At Nevins, an abandoned building plays frequent host to crack addicts, he said.

Still, he loves it there. “I have learned a lot from my neighbors about the ebb and flow and invisible current of this neighborhood,” he said, referring to how it has evolved over the years.

Then too, he added, there was the sense of connection he found when his first wife died in 2009 after a long bout with cancer. They barely left the house, he said, and he thought the block had forgotten about them.

“But that wasn’t true at all: they were quite cognizant” of his situation, he said. “People are not nosy but they are friendly and very helpful and good hearted.”

He paused, and laughed, adding, “Except for when they’re shooting at you.”
963 2011-10-25 Re “Not Such a Stretch to Reach for the Stars” (Oct. 18): Omitted from this interesting article was the 1992 Christopher Columbus Quincentenary Jubilee Commission’s celebratory contest to launch three solar sails into space. Unforeseen obstacles aborted this imaginative mission, and only an experimental sail was deployed. It orbited Earth for three days before degrading and re-entering the atmosphere, having proved the efficacy of the deployment mechanism.

With the support of NASA, the White House, a Congressional appropriation of $2 million and the postmaster general (who envisaged a commemorative stamp), the project, of which I was a chairman, nevertheless foundered on the dependable rocks of bureaucracy. But 20 years is infinitely less than a millisecond, given the time frame for such a “reach.” And the sun remains a patient source of the only energy required.
964 2011-10-25 LONDON — The focus on Rupert Murdoch’s senior executives in the wake of the News of the World phone hacking scandal intensified on Monday as his former right-hand man was questioned by lawmakers and his son James was summoned to give further testimony next month.

Les Hinton, who had worked with Mr. Murdoch for more than five decades, remained inscrutable on Monday in the face of often incredulous questioning from a parliamentary committee concerning his time as chairman of News International, the British newspaper unit of Mr. Murdoch’s News Corporation media empire, which Mr. Hinton ran from 1995 to 2007.

Sixteen former employees of The News of the World, the News International-owned tabloid at the center of the scandal, have been arrested this year. The company shut down the newspaper this summer after a series of revelations that phone hacking — breaking into the private voice mail accounts of people in the news — was widespread while Mr. Hinton ran the company, possibly touching thousands of unwitting targets.

Mr. Hinton, who appeared before the committee by way of a video link from the United States, told the lawmakers that he still felt that he was right to say, at a previous appearance in 2009, that phone hacking was restricted to a single “rogue” reporter, Clive Goodman, who was jailed for the practice in 2007. It has since emerged that Mr. Goodman sent Mr. Hinton a letter that year reporting a much wider problem.

“I don’t think I’d regard Mr. Goodman’s letter as evidence of anything,” Mr. Hinton said Monday. “They were accusations and allegations.” Mr. Hinton said he had not been questioned by the British police or by anyone within News Corporation over his role in the matter, and he denied any wrongdoing.

Mr. Hinton stepped down from his most recent post at News Corporation — the publisher of The Wall Street Journal — in July, as the scandal was making headlines, saying that although he was “ignorant of what apparently happened,” he felt that resigning was the right thing to do.
965 2011-10-25 VATICAN CITY — The Vatican called on Monday for an overhaul of the world’s financial systems, and again proposed establishment of a supranational authority to oversee the global economy, calling it necessary to bring more democratic and ethical principles to a marketplace run amok.

In a report issued by the Pontifical Council for Justice and Peace, the Vatican argued that “politics — which is responsible for the common good” must be given primacy over the economy and finance, and that existing institutions like the International Monetary Fund had not been responding adequately to global economic problems.

The document grows out of the Roman Catholic Church’s concerns about economic instability and widening inequality of income and wealth around the world, issues that transcend the power of national governments to address on their own.

“The time has come to conceive of institutions with universal competence, now that vital goods shared by the entire human family are at stake, goods which the individual states cannot promote and protect by themselves,” Cardinal Peter Kodwo Appiah Turkson, the president of the pontifical council, said as he presented the report on Monday. “That is what pushed us.”

The language in the document, which the Vatican refers to as a note, is distinctively strong. “We should not be afraid to propose new ideas, even if they might destabilize pre-existing balances of power that prevail over the weakest,” the document states.
966 2011-10-25 A campaign to draw attention to the plight of Chen Guangcheng, the rights lawyer who has been forcibly confined to his home in China’s Shandong Province for more than a year, escalated over the weekend, with dozens of people trying to visit him, human rights advocates said Monday.

As in the past, all those who tried to reach Mr. Chen were violently thwarted by guards before they could get near his home, according to several of the participants and the group Chinese Human Rights Defenders.

Among those who made the trip to Dongshigu village on Saturday were 30 activists from across China. The next day when they approached the entrance to the village, the group said they were attacked by as many as 300 people, robbed of their cellphones and cameras, and chased out of town.

One of China’s better-known rights defenders, Mr. Chen has been under house arrest with his wife and daughter since completing a four-year, three-month prison term in September 2010. Over the last decade, Mr. Chen, who is blind, made a name defending farmers, the disabled and women who say they were forced to undergo abortions or sterilizations as a part of China’s strict family planning policies.

His latter legal defense efforts angered local Communist Party officials and led to his jailing, and, advocates say, the continuing extralegal punishment that includes isolation and violence at the hands of thugs hired by the local government.

The three-week effort to challenge the guards and visit Mr. Chen has drawn scores of activists, who have described their harrowing confrontations through microblog messages. In recent Internet postings, several would-be participants in Shanghai, Beijing and other cities say that security personnel warned them against traveling to Shandong.
967 2011-10-25 WEISS--Evelyn Strauch, formerly of Lawrence. Adoring wife of the late Jacques. A woman with impeccable taste, the cleanest home and the best grandchildren. Dear mother of Mindy (Stephen Hoffman), Charles and Terry (David Gary). Grandmother of Hayl...
968 2011-10-25 Being overweight as a teenager carries a greater risk of being an overweight adult, along with an increased risk of dying of heart disease. But overweight adolescents who slim down in middle age may lower their risk, a new study shows.     Previou...
969 2011-10-25 Caterpillar reported a surprising 44 percent increase in quarterly profit and forecast strong demand through next year in a sign of optimism for the global economy.

The company said on Monday that it expected full-year 2011 profit and revenue to set records as a result of surging sales for mining equipment and construction machinery in most markets around the world.

Caterpillar executives said they expected that momentum to carry into next year, with sales rising up to 20 percent above the $58 billion in sales it expects to have this year.

“We’re having a great year in 2011, and 2012 is shaping up to be better,” said Douglas R. Oberhelman, Caterpillar’s chief executive.

Caterpillar said it had hired nearly 5,000 people in the quarter.

The bullish news from Caterpillar came after strong forecasts from General Electric and United Technologies. Caterpillar’s stock rose $4.38, or 5 percent, to $91.77.
970 2011-10-26 Mitt Romney is in Virginia stumping for cash, but also endorsements. But how much support from elected officials actually benefit his campaign?
971 2011-10-26 The 5-year-old cat, who escaped in August, was found just about where he had been lost....
972 2011-10-26 The 5-year-old cat, who escaped in August, was found just about where he had been lost....
973 2011-10-26 The data will be visible only to regulators including the Financial Stability Oversight Council, a panel of the top federal financial regulators led by the Treasury secretary, which was created by the Dodd-Frank regulations.

The data collection “follows the lessons learned during the financial crisis — lessons about the importance of monitoring and reducing the possibility that a sudden shock or failure of a financial institution will cascade through the entire financial system,” Mary L. Schapiro, the S.E.C. chairwoman said.

The commission, which now has four sitting members, voted unanimously to approve the rule.

Regulators passed a separate set of requirements this year for hedge funds to provide some information that would be made public. Those regulations required limited disclosures, however, detailing only general information about a fund’s size, its largest investors and the fund’s “gatekeepers,” including its auditors, the brokerage firms that help to execute its trades and the marketers that service the fund.

An S.E.C. official said that the commission might aggregate and publish some data on the size and scope of the hedge fund industry based on the confidential information, but it would not identify individual funds or advisers.

While anonymous information has some benefits, analysts will not have a chance to call attention to specific parts of the industry or individual firms that pose potential risks to themselves, their counterparties or segments of the entire industry.

Still, the new data could highlight industry-wide problems like an over-concentration in one type of investment. Had this data been more widely available before the financial crisis, regulators might have seen the risks posed by a concentration of mortgage-backed securities investments and related instruments that led to the 2008 crisis.

Under the new rules, all hedge funds with more than $500 million or more in assets must disclose how leveraged their investments are — that is, the degree to which the size of the investments are enhanced using borrowed money. It would also look at how liquid, or quickly sold and converted into cash, they are.

Smaller hedge funds, with $150 million to $500 million in assets, will report their general fund strategy, what firms handle their trading and clearing operations, and their counterparty risk — that is, what financial firm is on the other side of complicated bets like derivatives and which could stand to lose if the fund was unable to honor its obligations.

No funds will be required to report “position information,” or details on individual investment holdings, S.E.C. officials said, a change that was made in part because of comments received from hedge funds and others. Hedge funds with less than $150 million will not be required to file the new reports approved Wednesday.

Ms. Schapiro said only about 230 American-based hedge fund advisers would be subject to the strictest reporting rule. But those advisers handle more than an estimated 80 percent of the assets under management among all hedge funds.

Richard Baker, the president of the Managed Funds Association, a trade group representing hedge funds, said the group was “disappointed that the commission was not able to focus the scope of the form to a more targeted set of data points.” He also noted that considerable uncertainty would remain until fund managers knew if they faced different reporting requirements for portfolios overseen by the C.F.T.C.

Fund managers also expressed concern about whether the S.E.C. and other regulators would be able to keep their portfolio information confidential. Hedge funds closely guard their trading and investment strategies, fearing that rivals might try to anticipate and run ahead of the fund’s trading. Alternatively, if a hedge fund held an illiquid investment, or one not easily sold, other traders might gang up to drive the price lower and force the fund to sell at a loss.

If approved as expected by the C.F.T.C., the largest hedge funds, those with more than $5 billion in assets, would be required to report the new information beginning at the end of next June. Smaller funds would be allowed until early 2013 to begin the reports. Industry lobbyists also sought to delay when the rules would take effect.

The S.E.C.’s rules also detail some disclosure requirements for private equity funds and “liquidity funds,” which generally are short-term or money-market funds. Liquidity fund managers with more than $1 billion in assets must follow rules similar to the large-firm reporting requirements for hedge funds, while private equity funds with more than $2 billion in assets are considered large funds.

The two types of funds have different reporting frequencies, however. Because money-market funds are short-term in nature and therefore turn over their investments frequently, the largest funds in that group must report within 15 days of the end of each quarter. Private equity funds, which generally take large stakes in companies and often act as part of a company’s management, are only required to report annually, within 120 days of the end of the fiscal year.
974 2011-10-26 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
975 2011-10-26 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
976 2011-10-26 A new study showed success in implanting one embryo, rather than two or more....
977 2011-10-26 A new study showed success in implanting one embryo, rather than two or more....
978 2011-10-26 No time to take your grade schooler down to the Occupy Wall Street demonstrations (or their local incarnation) but on board with the general vibe? Two new picture books speak to our current hard times, each with a protest song at its heart.

“Blowin’ in the Wind” is the most recent ’60s anthem to get the hardcover-book-plus-CD treatment (Peter, Paul and Mary’s “Day Is Done” was another recent recipient). The Illustrator here is Jon J Muth (“Zen Shorts”), whose dreamy, delicate watercolors seem particularly well suited to Bob Dylan’s call for peace, freedom and understanding.

Recorded in 1963, “Blowin’ in the Wind” became one of the signature songs of the civil rights movement (white edition). But the lyrics also address other issues of the day. “Yes, ’n’ how many times must the cannonballs fly / Before they’re forever banned?” (In case you didn’t endlessly sing the song at day camp or somehow bypassed the near-ubiquitous Dylan phase.)

Whether children will understand the lyrics depends, of course, on their age, but also on how much context an adult reader adds to the experience. A literal-minded 4-year-old (and what 4-year-old isn’t?) might be confused by the portrait of a girl holding a guitar alongside the words, “Yes, ’n’ how many times must a man look up / Before he can see the sky?” Likewise, a circle of children happily bouncing a red ball to the tune of “How many deaths will it take till he knows / That too many people have died?” is apt to leave a young listener somewhat befuddled.

The best part of the book – and how could it not be? – is Dylan’s original recording, which is included in a plastic sleeve on the inside cover. If a child looks through the book while listening to the music, he or she will no doubt absorb the mood if not the full meaning.

There is certainly a clear message in “Which Side Are You On?” written by George Ella Lyon (“My Friend, the Starfinder,” “The Pirate of Kindergarten”) and illustrated by Christopher Cardinale, a Brooklyn-based muralist and illustrator (“Mr. Mendoza’s Paintbrush”). Alas, in these union-unfriendly times, the subject of the book, “Which Side Are You On?,” a labor anthem written 80 years ago by a coal miner’s wife in Harlan County, Ken., is far less known today than the work of Bob Dylan.
979 2011-10-26 A financial aid expert takes the measure of a presidential proposal to ease the repayment of student loans -- at least to new borrowers....
980 2011-10-26 A financial aid expert takes the measure of a presidential proposal to ease the repayment of student loans -- at least to new borrowers....
981 2011-10-26 Complaints about its six-speed dual-clutch transmission prompted Ford to issue a bulletin to its dealers but did not prevent it from falling 10 places in the magazine's reliability survey....
982 2011-10-26 Complaints about its six-speed dual-clutch transmission prompted Ford to issue a bulletin to its dealers but did not prevent it from falling 10 places in the magazine's reliability survey....
983 2011-10-26 A special section explores new technologies and steep challenges benefiting and testing the energy industry....
984 2011-10-26 A special section explores new technologies and steep challenges benefiting and testing the energy industry....
985 2011-10-26 The Lens blog has posted a series of black-and-white photographs of Swiss bankers in Zurich. "It became about how to photograph what you can't see, what you can't photograph," said Mark Henley, the photographer, who focused on Credit Suisse and UB...
986 2011-10-26 The Day: It is not unreasonable to fear that the ranks of louts will swell if subway stations become trash-receptacle-free zones. Also, what City Room is reading in other newspapers and blogs....
987 2011-10-26 The Day: It is not unreasonable to fear that the ranks of louts will swell if subway stations become trash-receptacle-free zones. Also, what City Room is reading in other newspapers and blogs....
988 2011-10-26 In photographing the Swiss banking industry, Mark Henley faced the challenge of documenting something no one can see. Yet the pictures — like something out of a noir film — have familiar qualities....
989 2011-10-26 In photographing the Swiss banking industry, Mark Henley faced the challenge of documenting something no one can see. Yet the pictures - like something out of a noir film - have familiar qualities....
990 2011-10-26 Do editorial page endorsements have any effect on election outcomes?...
991 2011-10-26 Do editorial page endorsements have any effect on election outcomes?...
992 2011-10-26 Who would have predicted it? has turned out to be so much more adept at implementing ’s foreign policy than Bush was, but he is less adept at implementing his own. The reasons, though, are obvious.

In his own way, has brought the country to the right strategy for Bush’s “war on terrorism.” It is a serious, focused combination of global intelligence coordination, targeted killing of known terrorists and limited interventions — like — that leverage popular forces on the ground and allies, as well as a judicious use of U.S. power, so that we keep the costs and risks down. In Libya, Obama saved lives and gave Libyans a chance to build a decent society. What they do with this opportunity is now up to them. I am still wary, but Obama handled his role exceedingly well.

No doubt George Bush and thought that both and would be precisely such focused, limited operations. Instead, they each turned out to be like a bad subprime — a small down payment with a huge balloon five years down the road. They thought they would be able to “flip” the house before the balloon came due. But partly because of their incompetence and lack of planning, it took much longer to flip the house to new owners and the price America paid was huge. Iraq may still have a decent outcome — I hope so, and it would be important — but even if it becomes , we overpaid for it.

So let’s be clear: Up to now, as a commander in chief in the war on terrorism, Obama and his national security team have been so much smarter, tougher and cost-efficient in keeping the country safe than the “adults” they replaced. It isn’t even close, which is why the ’s elders have such a hard time admitting it.

But while Obama has been deft at implementing Bush’s antiterrorism policy, he has been less successful with his own foreign policy. His Arab-Israeli diplomacy has been a mess. His hopes of engaging foundered on the rocks of, well, Iran. He’s made little effort to pull together a multilateral coalition to buttress the Arab Awakening, in places like , to handle the postrevolution challenges. His ill-considered decision to double down on Afghanistan could prove fatal. He is in a war of words with . His global climate policy is an invisible embarrassment. And the coolly calculating Chinese and Russians, while occasionally throwing him a bone, pursue their interests with scant regard to Obama’s preferences. Why is that?
993 2011-10-26 THE activists of Occupy Wall Street have already scored a stunning — and I think welcome — success.

A motley group of anarchists, avowed revolutionaries and young people dedicated to pragmatic liberal reform has already transformed the political conversation. They have compelled the media to pay fresh attention to voices on the left. And despite a lack of explicit demands, the movement obviously embodies an alternative vision of a new world that is, in the words of one participant, “participatory and democratic to the core.”

In the process, the activists have resurrected a defining aspect of the New Left of the 1960s: an overriding commitment to participatory democracy, to making decisions by deliberation and consensus and not through elected representatives. Sooner or later, Occupy Wall Street will have to grapple with the practical problems and limits of that ideal.

The first and perhaps most obvious problem is scale. It is one thing to create a participatory community of 500 or even 1,000 — or even a democracy of 40,000 direct participants, as Athenians did in the fifth and fourth centuries B.C. But it is quite another thing to sustain direct, participatory interaction in large and complex societies on the scale of the United States. Even worse, many of the concerns the protesters have highlighted — about unemployment and global warming, for instance — arise from factors that can be tackled only by new forms of international cooperation.

Formulating institutions and policies may seem boring and dull in comparison with the carnivalesque intensity of marches, protests and occupations. After the “whole world is watching” showdown between police officers and protesters in Chicago in August 1968, advocates of participatory democracy inside the New Left heaped scorn on the dreary compromises involved in electoral politics — and thus inadvertently helped Richard M. Nixon defeat Hubert H. Humphrey in that fall’s presidential election.
994 2011-10-26 Amnesty International said Tuesday that the Dominican Republic’s national police force was responsible for killing and torturing with impunity and for, on average, 15 percent of the violent deaths recorded from 2005 to 2010. The report said that “hard-line policing methods” were contributing to an increase in violence and crime rather than helping to curb it, and that police abuse had flourished because of inadequate government oversight. Col. Máximo Báez, a spokesman, said the police were not allowed to present their side of the events cited to the group.
995 2011-10-26 “The policy drivers are more important than the economic drivers,” said Olivia Jensen, an expert on Chinese water policy and a director at Infrastructure Economics, a Singapore-based consultancy. “If the central government says desalination is going to be a focus area and money should go into desalination technology, then it will.”

The government has, and it is. At the government’s order, China is rapidly becoming one of the world’s biggest growth markets for desalted water. The latest goal is to quadruple production by 2020, from the current 680,000 cubic meters, or 180 million gallons, a day to as many as three million cubic meters, about 800 million gallons, equivalent to nearly a dozen more 200,000-ton-a-day plants like the one being expanded in Beijiang.

China’s latest five-year plan for the sector is expected to order the establishment of a national desalination industry, according to Guo Yozhi, who heads the China Desalination Association. Institutes in at least six Chinese cities are researching developments in membranes, the technology at the core of the most sophisticated and cost-effective desalination techniques.

The National Development and Reform Commission, China’s top-level state planning agency, is drafting plans to give preferential treatment to domestic companies that build desalting equipment or patent desalting technologies. There is talk of tax breaks and low-interest loans to encourage domestic production.

In an interview, Mr. Guo called the government role in desalination “symbolic,” saying that direct government investment in seawater projects does not exceed 10 percent of their cost. By comparison, he said, big water ventures like the massive South-North Water Diversion Project, which will divert water from the Yangtze River in the south to the thirsty north, are completely government-financed.

Still, the government’s plans could mean an investment of as much as 200 billion renminbi, or about $31 billion, by state-owned companies, government agencies and private partners.

Beijiang’s desalination complex, built by S.D.I.C. at the behest of the Development and Reform Commission as a concept project, was almost wholly made in Israel, shipped to Tianjin and bolted together. Nationally, less than 60 percent of desalination equipment and technology is domestic.

China’s goal is to raise that to 90 percent by 2020, said Jennie Peng, an analyst and water industry specialist at the Beijing office of Frost & Sullivan, a consulting company based in San Antonio.

There are plenty of reasons for China to want a homegrown desalination industry, not the least of which is homegrown fresh water. Demand for water here is expected to grow 63 percent by 2030 — gallon for gallon, more than anywhere else on earth, according to the Asia Water Project, a business information organization.

Northern China has long been short of water, and fast-expanding cities like Beijing and Tianjin already have turned to extensive recycling and conservation programs to meet the need.

In Tianjin, deemed a model city for water conservation, 90 percent of water used in industry is recycled; 60 percent of farm irrigation systems use water-saving technologies; 148 miles of water-recycling pipes snake beneath the city. Apartments in one 10-square-mile area of town feature two taps, one for drinking water and one for recycled water suitable for other uses.

The Beijiang plant, one of two, supplies an expanding suburb with 10,000 tons of desalted water daily, with plans to someday pump 180,000 tons. A second 100,000-ton facility supplies a vast ethylene production plant outside of town.

The Beijiang plant has faced some hiccups. The mineral-free distilled water scrubs rust from city pipes en route to taps, turning the water brown. Some residents are suspicious of the water, saying its purity means it lacks nutrients. The plant is addressing both complaints by adding minerals to the water.

But some say slaking China’s thirst may be a beneficial sideline to larger aims. The global market for desalination technology will more than quadruple by 2020 to about $50 billion a year, the research firm SBI Energy predicted last month, and growing water shortages worldwide appear to ensure further growth.

Beyond that, the increasingly sophisticated membrane technologies that filter salt from seawater can be applied to sewage treatment, pollution control and a legion of other cutting-edge uses. Far outpaced now by foreign membrane producers, which command at least 85 percent of the market, China is set on developing its own advanced technologies.

Some experts say that is where the government’s interest mostly lies. “What this is about is developing China’s membrane industry, more than it is local use,” said Ms. Jensen, the Singapore analyst. “This is an export industry fundamentally, not one to make a green China.”

Whatever the motivation, China is already racing toward meeting its targets.

Just as foreign companies rushed to China to secure a place in its budding wind-energy market, the list of foreign companies that have plunged into China’s desalination industry is long: Hyflux of Singapore, Toray of Japan, Befesa of Spain, Brack of Israel and ERI of the United States, among others.

And just as foreigners shifted solar-energy research and production to China, desalination companies are leaving their home bases as well. The Norwegian company Aqualyng is a partner with the Beijing city government on a desalination plant in Tangshan, a coastal city about 135 miles east of Beijing, and is studying moving its manufacturing facilities from Europe to China.

ERI, which is based in San Francisco and claims to have the desalination industry’s most advanced technology, is moving research facilities to China and is considering moving manufacturing as well at some later date.

Most of the foreign companies have partnered with state-owned corporations, for help in securing business and for political protection in a country where the rule of law and protection of intellectual property are in a state of flux. And although some foreign investors in technology-laden projects like wind energy and high-speed rail later claimed their Chinese partners appropriated their technologies, the heads of ERI and Aqualyng say they can become researchers and manufacturers in China without losing control of their products.

The chairman of Aqualyng’s board, Bernt Osthus, said in an interview that the company’s partnership with the Beijing government had been “close to an ideal partner,” with the Norwegians controlling the technology and the Chinese providing money and local know-how.

He added, however, that the company was considering a joint research venture with a Chinese partner.

“By reducing our ownership in our equipment and taking on a state-owned Chinese partner and moving production from Europe to China, the technology effectively becomes Chinese,” he said. “I’m still the owner. I’m still owning my piece of the pie. I’m just increasing the size of the pie.”

And a big pie it is.

“There are large-scale desalination projects centralized all up and down the east coast of China,” ERI’s chief executive officer, Thomas S. Rooney Jr., said in an interview. “Our company has the most advanced technology in the entire desalination industry. And one of the beautiful things about China is that they like to adopt the most advanced technologies.”

“You can either fight them or join them, and our philosophy is that China likely is going to be the next big desalination market,” he added. “I would rather develop technology for China in China and take a more open approach than play the secrets game.”
996 2011-10-26 And in the study of artificial intelligence, “no one is more influential than John,” Mr. Diffie said.

While teaching mathematics at Dartmouth in 1956, Dr. McCarthy was the principal organizer of the first Dartmouth Conference on Artificial Intelligence.

The idea of simulating human intelligence had been discussed for decades, but the term “artificial intelligence” — originally used to help raise funds to support the conference — stuck.

In 1958, Dr. McCarthy moved to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where, with Marvin Minsky, he founded the Artificial Intelligence Laboratory. It was at M.I.T. that he began working on what he called List Processing Language, or Lisp, a computer language that became the standard tool for artificial intelligence research and design.

Around the same time he came up with a technique called garbage collection, in which pieces of computer code that are not needed by a running computation are automatically removed from the computer’s random access memory.

He developed the technique in 1959 and added it to Lisp. That technique is now routinely used in Java and other programming languages.

His M.I.T. work also led to fundamental advances in software and operating systems. In one, he was instrumental in developing the first time-sharing system for mainframe computers.

The power of that invention would come to shape Dr. McCarthy’s worldview to such an extent that when the first personal computers emerged with local computing and storage in the 1970s, he belittled them as toys.

Rather, he predicted, wrongly, that in the future everyone would have a relatively simple and inexpensive computer terminal in the home linked to a shared, centralized mainframe and use it as an electronic portal to the worlds of commerce and news and entertainment media.

Dr. McCarthy, who taught briefly at Stanford in the early 1950s, returned there in 1962 and in 1964 became the founding director of the Stanford Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, or SAIL. Its optimistic, space-age goal, with financial backing from the Pentagon, was to create a working artificial intelligence system within a decade.

Years later he developed a healthy respect for the challenge, saying that creating a “thinking machine” would require “1.8 Einsteins and one-tenth the resources of the Manhattan Project.”

Artificial intelligence is still thought to be far in the future, though tremendous progress has been made in systems that mimic many human skills, including vision, listening, reasoning and, in robotics, the movements of limbs. From the mid-’60s to the mid-’70s, the Stanford lab played a vital role in creating some of these technologies, including robotics and machine-vision natural language.

In 1972, the laboratory drew national attention when Stewart Brand, the founder of The Whole Earth Catalog, wrote about it in Rolling Stone magazine under the headline “SPACEWAR: Fanatic Life and Symbolic Death Among the Computer Bums.” The article evoked the esprit de corps of a group of researchers who had been freed to create their own virtual worlds, foreshadowing the emergence of cyberspace. “Ready or not, computers are coming to the people,” Mr. Brand wrote.

Dr. McCarthy had begun inviting the Homebrew Computer Club, a Silicon Valley hobbyist group, to meet at the Stanford lab. Among its growing membership were Steven P. Jobs and Stephen Wozniak, who would go on to found Apple. Mr. Wozniak designed his first personal computer prototype, the Apple 1, to share with his Homebrew friends.

But Dr. McCarthy still cast a jaundiced eye on personal computing. In the second Homebrew newsletter, he suggested the formation of a “Bay Area Home Terminal Club,” to provide computer access on a shared Digital Equipment computer. He thought a user fee of $75 a month would be reasonable.

Though Dr. McCarthy would initially miss the significance of the PC, his early thinking on electronic commerce would influence Mr. Diffie at the Stanford lab. Drawing on those ideas, Mr. Diffie began thinking about what would replace the paper personal check in an all-electronic world.

He and two other researchers went on to develop the basic idea of public key cryptography, which is now the basis of all modern electronic banking and commerce, providing secure interaction between a consumer and a business.

A chess enthusiast, Dr. McCarthy had begun working on chess-playing computer programs in the 1950s at Dartmouth. Shortly after joining the Stanford lab, he engaged a group of Soviet computer scientists in an intercontinental chess match after he discovered they had a chess-playing computer. Played by telegraph, the match consisted of four games and lasted almost a year. The Soviet scientists won.

John McCarthy was born on Sept. 4, 1927, into a politically engaged family in Boston. His father, John Patrick McCarthy, was an Irish immigrant and a labor organizer.

His mother, the former Ida Glatt, a Lithuanian Jewish immigrant, was active in the suffrage movement. Both parents were members of the Communist Party. The family later moved to Los Angeles in part because of John’s respiratory problems.

He entered the California Institute of Technology in 1944 and went on to graduate studies at Princeton, where he was a colleague of John Forbes Nash Jr., the Nobel Prize-winning mathematician and subject of Sylvia Nasar’s book “A Beautiful Mind,” which was adapted into a movie.

At Princeton, in 1949, he briefly joined the local Communist Party cell, which had two other members: a cleaning woman and a gardener, he told an interviewer. But he quit the party shortly afterward.

In the ’60s, as the Vietnam War escalated, his politics took a conservative turn as he grew disenchanted with leftist politics.

In 1971 Dr. McCarthy received the Turing Award, the most prestigious given by the Association of Computing Machinery, for his work in artificial intelligence. He was awarded the Kyoto Prize in 1988, the National Medal of Science in 1991 and the Benjamin Franklin Medal in 2003.

Dr. McCarthy was married three times. His second wife, Vera Watson, a member of the American Women’s Himalayan Expedition, died in a climbing accident on Annapurna in 1978.

Besides his daughter Sarah, of Nevada City, Calif., he is survived by his wife, Carolyn Talcott, of Stanford; another daughter, Susan McCarthy, of San Francisco; and a son, Timothy, of Stanford.

He remained an independent thinker throughout his life. Some years ago, one of his daughters presented him with a license plate bearing one of his favorite aphorisms: “Do the arithmetic or be doomed to talk nonsense.”
997 2011-10-26 GREENSBORO, N.C. — Lawyers for John Edwards will head to federal court here on Wednesday to ask a judge to dismiss charges that he violated campaign finance laws by using money from two wealthy benefactors to support his pregnant mistress during his run for the presidency in 2008.

His lawyers contend that the government has exceeded the reach of federal election laws.

In a series of filings, Mr. Edwards, a former senator from North Carolina and the 2004 Democratic vice-presidential nominee, argued that the nearly $1 million that was used to keep secret his relationship with Rielle Hunter, a campaign videographer with whom he had a daughter, came in the form of gifts — not campaign contributions.

Prosecutors argue that the payments were in fact campaign contributions because they were intended to help hide information that could damage Mr. Edwards politically. They also say Mr. Edwards filed false campaign reports to cover up the payments.

Mr. Edwards, 58, and his lawyers have argued that if the prosecutors’ theory is upheld, then campaigns could use legal contributions “to pay for a candidate to conceal a mistress, conceal an unwed pregnant daughter and, one would imagine, even to pay for an abortion to hide evidence of an affair.”

The hearing here on Wednesday in Federal District Court for the Middle District of North Carolina is expected to last all day and offer a good preview of the aggressive legal chess game that Mr. Edwards is preparing to play if the charges are allowed to stand and the trial opens in January.
998 2011-10-26 Steve Blanco, a jazz pianist whose mother is from Casablanca, Morocco, grew up eating crumbly, shortbread-style cookies that are called ghoribas in North Africa. About a year ago he and his girlfriend and partner, Heidi Karlsen, who has baked professionally, decided to try making them with notable tweaks, like replacing semolina with rye flour and butter or cooking oil with coconut oil. They call them Sandcastles. So far they have perfected two rich, nutty flavors: marzipan and black sesame. Next in line are maple-dusted cardamom and poppy-seed-lemon.

Black and Blanco cookies are $5.99 for a five-ounce package from blackblanco.com, and at E & I Market, and $5.49 at Food Cellar, both in Long Island City, Queens; and $5 at Smorgasburg in Brooklyn.
999 2011-10-26 Credit: Guy Calaf for The New York Times
1000 2011-10-26 A weak consumer electronics market and aftershocks from Europe’s debt crisis pulled the 3M Company’s quarterly earnings well below expectations, sending company shares down 6.25 percent.

The company also lowered its full-year earnings forecast, citing expectations for slower economic growth and lower demand, and it predicted moderate sales growth for 2012.

“The business environment remains challenging, as the economic softening that we experienced late in the second quarter continued into the third,” 3M’s chief executive, George W. Buckley, said.

Mr. Buckley, speaking on a conference call, said growing concern about the debt crisis in Europe had affected exchange rates, disproportionately affecting 3M because of its exposure to international markets. He also noted that the consumer electronics sector continued to sag but expressed optimism about that market’s ability to snap back.

Despite weakness in important pockets of its business, 3M enjoyed continued growth for industrial, security, transportation and health care products during the quarter. Do-it-yourself product growth — induced by consumers tightening their belts — also helped the company.

Net income was $1.09 billion, or $1.52 a share, compared with $1.1 billion, or $1.53 a share, a year earlier.

The company’s quarterly sales also fell short of expectations, rising 10 percent, to $7.5 billion, compared with expectations of $7.8 billion.
1001 2011-10-26 A Tibetan monk in western China’s Sichuan province set himself on fire on Tuesday to express opposition to China’s Tibet policies, becoming the 10th Tibetan this year to self-immolate as a form of political protest, an outside advocacy group reported.

The group, Free Tibet, based in London, said the self-immolation occurred outside a monastery in Garze, which is known as Kandze in Tibetan, and that the monk’s identity, condition and whereabouts were not known. The group did not explain how it had obtained the information.

Garze is about 100 miles south of Aba, or Ngaba, where eight of the other nine self-immolations have taken place. At least five of the protesters have died, including the only women among the group, a nun, Tenzin Wangmo, 20, on Oct. 17. The others have been monks or former monks.

Stephanie Brigden, director of Free Tibet, said in a statement that the self-immolations, coupled with protests in other parts of Tibet and adjoining Chinese areas populated by ethnic Tibetans, “underlines that the crisis in Tibet is not driven by events in one town, but represents a wider rejection of China’s occupation of Tibet.”

Chinese officials have denounced the self-immolations as a form of terrorism encouraged by outside groups that promote Tibetan independence. China has asserted sovereignty over Tibet since the 1950s, when it invaded the one-time Himalayan kingdom and forced the Dalai Lama, its spiritual leader, to flee.

In China’s view, it has liberated Tibet from a feudal system and brooks no tolerance for independence advocates, referring to them as “splittist” agitators inspired by the Dalai Lama, a Nobel laureate. The Dalai Lama, 76, who resides in Dharamsala, India, home of the Tibetan government in exile, has said he does not promote independence but opposes what he calls China’s suppression of Tibetan religion and culture.
1002 2011-10-26 The Euro Stoxx index closed down 1.06 percent, and markets in Paris and Germany were also lower.

The new lows on Tuesday derailed some of the gains made in recent days that had sent the Dow and the Nasdaq higher for the year. The Nasdaq returned to the red for the year, and the S.& P. was down more than 2 percent in the year to date.

Materials, industrials, energy and consumer discretionary sectors each fell by 2 percent or more. The consumer index was pulled down by a sharp drop in Netflix shares, which were down more than 34 percent at $77.37. Netflix had reported that it expected lower revenue and profits in the fourth quarter because of recent changes in pricing.

Anthony Valeri, an investment strategist for LPL Financial, said that the markets had started the day slightly lower because of some earnings reports.

United Parcel Service, for example, said earnings per share rose 14 percent in the third quarter, compared with the same period in 2010. But it said total domestic volume growth was flat “as a result of the slow U.S. economy.”

On Monday, Caterpillar helped to lift trading with strong results, but on Tuesday, 3M, another bellwether company, missed earnings forecasts and lowered its guidance.

3M stock was down by 6.25 percent, at $77.04, and U.P.S. was down by about 2 percent at $69.35. “We all know that Europe is on the verge of a mild recession but hearing that from a company that typically manages through these situations quite well means it may be more significant,” Ms. Warne said, referring to 3M. “It suggests it may also be a problem for other companies.”

DuPont, the chemical manufacturer, posted quarterly results that exceeded forecasts, with net income up 23 percent, or 48 cents per share. The company said that it was raising its expectations for full-year earnings, but also that it expected slower global growth in the fourth quarter of the year. Its shares were lower by about 2.5 percent, at $44.94.

Analysts said outlooks were mixed and economic data relatively weaker, pointing to slow growth. "That was another dampener, if you will, on sentiment,” said Wasif Latif, vice president for equity investments at the USAA Investment Management Company.

But, he added that the market’s main driver was Europe. “So today is: let’s take some money off the table,” he said.

Gold was up more than 2 percent at just over $1,700 an ounce. Safer assets became more attractive ahead of the summit meeting on Wednesday, said Eric Viloria, a senior currency strategist at Forex.com.

In economic news, home prices showed a modest rise in 10 of 20 cities surveyed in the Standard & Poor’s/Case-Shiller index. But consumer confidence fell, as reflected in a decline in the Conference Board’s index to 39.8 points in October after a reading of 46.4 in September.

Financial market turmoil has weighed heavily on consumer confidence, along with the ailing jobs market, Joshua Shapiro, the chief United States economist for MFR, wrote in a research note.

The United States 10-year Treasury bond rose to 100 3/32, from 99 2/32 on Monday. The yield was 2.11 percent.
1003 2011-10-26 Robert Dudley, BP’s chief executive, has spent the last year repairing the company’s reputation and safety record after an accident on an offshore rig caused the Gulf of Mexico spill. He is also seeking new exploration projects. BP plans to increase investments in exploration and focus on areas like operations in deep water and the management of giant oil fields.

Some analysts have questioned whether that would be enough to restore BP’s share price to the level before the accident.

The company’s shares closed Tuesday in London at 457 pence ($7.32). They closed at 655.40 pence on April 20, 2010, the day of the explosion.

“This company has been steadied, turned around and now, this month, with high-margin assets returning onstream, we have reached a clear turning point,” Mr. Dudley said in a statement. “Our operations are regaining momentum and we are facing the future with great confidence.”

Mr. Dudley said he expected investments in new exploration projects and the end of payments to the Gulf of Mexico Trust Fund to increase cash flow about 50 percent by 2014.

BP plans to use the cash partly for higher dividends and share buybacks.

Mr. Dudley said production probably reached a low point this quarter and was expected to rise.

Production levels improved, particularly from Angola, the North Sea and the Gulf of Mexico, Mr. Dudley said. In a first sign that BP would be allowed to continue drilling in the gulf, the Obama administration last Friday approved BP’s plan for four exploration wells off the Louisiana coast.

It is still unclear how much BP will end up paying for costs related to the 2010 explosion on the Deepwater Horizon oil rig, which killed 11 people and leaked millions of barrels of oil into the ocean.

BP so far has put aside $41 billion to cover those costs.

Payments to the gulf trust fund are expected to end next year, BP said.

Also on Tuesday, BP named Brian Gilvary, 49, to become chief financial officer at the beginning of next year. He will succeed Byron Grote, 63, who has been in the job since 2002.

Mr. Grote is to remain on BP’s board as executive vice president of corporate business activities. Mr. Gilvary is currently deputy group finance chief.
1004 2011-10-26 The Xerox Corporation on Tuesday posted a 28 percent surge in profit for its third quarter, after winning more long-term deals to provide business services to companies, affirming a strategic shift and easing investors’ fears about a slowing European economy.

Signings for services — or estimated future revenue from contracts signed during the period — rose 33 percent, to $3.9 billion.

Wall Street has been urging Xerox to expand more aggressively in services for companies, like managing payrolls and performing data analytics. To that end, it bought the business outsourcing company ACS last year for $6.4 billion — the biggest takeover in Xerox’s 105-year history.

The services market offers stability to offset a more volatile copier and printer business that, while profitable, is struggling to grow as companies worldwide tighten their budgets.

Once known for its office copiers, Xerox now makes just 45 percent of its revenue from such products, and that area is growing more slowly than Xerox’s services business.

Xerox reported earnings of 22 cents a share, up from 17 cents a year earlier, with net income of $320 million, up from $250 million. Adjusting for various charges, Xerox said it earned 26 cents a share, beating analysts’ average forecast by a penny.

Total revenue rose 3 percent, to $5.58 billion, slightly ahead of estimates of $5.57 billion.

Xerox said it now expects fourth-quarter earnings of 32 to 35 cents a share, in line with analysts’ estimates, according to Thomson Reuters. It projected full-year earnings of $1.08 to $1.11 a share, also in the range of forecasts.
1005 2011-10-26 Rick Perry appears determined to make doubts about President Obama's birthplace an issue again in the Republican primary campaign even though Mr. Obama produced his long-form birth certificate months ago.     In two interviews, Mr. Perry insisted ...
1006 2011-10-27 After six years of renovation and reconstruction, the Bolshoi Theater in Moscow reopened. Related Article
1007 2011-10-27 During his 40-year career, Gary P. Naftalis has defended embattled executives, troubled multibillion-dollar banks and disco owners. Now he defends Rajat K. Gupta....
1008 2011-10-27 During his 40-year career, Gary P. Naftalis has defended embattled executives, troubled multibillion-dollar banks and disco owners. Now he defends Rajat K. Gupta....
1009 2011-10-27 The midsize pickup, which is not intended for sale in North America, received the highest rating ever issued for a pickup by the European testing organization....
1010 2011-10-27 The midsize pickup, which is not intended for sale in North America, received the highest rating ever issued for a pickup by the European testing organization....
1011 2011-10-27 Barely a month into Meg Whitman's tenure as chief executive, Hewlett-Packard announced Thursday that it would not sell the company's dominant personal computer business - rejecting a decision made by her predecessor....
1012 2011-10-27 The decision comes barely a month after Meg Whitman took over as chief executive, concluding a strategic review begun by her predecessor....
1013 2011-10-27 The decision comes barely a month after Meg Whitman took over as chief executive, concluding a strategic review begun by her predecessor....
1014 2011-10-27 The move comes at a time when many museums are making cuts....
1015 2011-10-27 The move comes at a time when many museums are making cuts....
1016 2011-10-27 Four admissions officers from the University of California spoke on their decision processes on Thursday, as part of a College Board panel in New York City....
1017 2011-10-27 Four admissions officers from the University of California spoke on their decision processes on Thursday, as part of a College Board panel in New York City....
1018 2011-10-27 A panel on Thursday at the College Board conference in New York City emphasized the importance of honest and full disclosure of a student's behavioral or criminal infractions....
1019 2011-10-27 A panel on Thursday at the College Board conference in New York City emphasized the importance of honest and full disclosure of a student's behavioral or criminal infractions....
1020 2011-10-27 While Apple is exploring a full-fledged television, expect Siri, the company's new artificial intelligent software, to control the TV....
1021 2011-10-27 While Apple is exploring a full-fledged television, expect Siri, the company's new artificial intelligent software, to control the TV....
1022 2011-10-27 A look at the financial realities of same-sex partnerships.
1023 2011-10-27 A look at the financial realities of same-sex partnerships.
1024 2011-10-27 One Police Plaza: An officer receives a new job after a pepper-spray encounter; and the proper behavior of an undercover officer is at issue in the Sean Bell police hearing....
1025 2011-10-27 One Police Plaza: An officer receives a new job after a pepper-spray encounter; and the proper behavior of an undercover officer is at issue in the Sean Bell police hearing....
1026 2011-10-27 A panel on Wednesday at the College Board's conference in New York City explored the flaws of the current college admissions system....
1027 2011-10-27 A panel on Wednesday at the College Board's conference in New York City explored the flaws of the current college admissions system....
1028 2011-10-27 Does Roger Goodell risk the appearance of two standards of justice in his league, one for coaches and one for players?...
1029 2011-10-27 Does Roger Goodell risk the appearance of two standards of justice in his league, one for coaches and one for players?...
1030 2011-10-27 Lou Reed and James Hetfield and Lars Ulrich of Metallica talk about their new album, "Lulu," their seemingly odd collaboration, the importance of "the rock muscle," and their very different approaches to live performances....
1031 2011-10-27 Lou Reed and James Hetfield and Lars Ulrich of Metallica talk about their new album, "Lulu," their seemingly odd collaboration, the importance of "the rock muscle," and their very different approaches to live performances....
1032 2011-10-27 Readers suggest that Dr. Jaliman use fewer words and do more to establish trust on her site....
1033 2011-10-27 Readers suggest that Dr. Jaliman use fewer words and do more to establish trust on her site....
1034 2011-10-27 The Indian Scene, as Seen From New York
1035 2011-10-27 On Oct. 27, 1904, the first rapid transit subway, the Interborough Rapid Transit, opened in New York City....
1036 2011-10-27 On Oct. 27, 1904, the first rapid transit subway, the Interborough Rapid Transit, opened in New York City....
1037 2011-10-27 New York City’s watchdog on discrimination issues has fallen so far behind on its workload that it should consider private financing to compensate for chronic budget cuts, according to an audit from the city comptroller, John C. Liu.

In the audit, Mr. Liu said that the watchdog, the Equal Employment Practices Commission, had for seven years failed to scrutinize the compliance efforts of three key pillars of government: the mayor’s office, the City Council and the Law Department.

The commission is required under the City Charter to monitor whether city agencies are complying with federal, state and local equal-opportunity laws. The commission also compiles statistics on the diversity of the city’s work force. Its audit is the latest analysis to suggest that the Bloomberg administration has not made the commission or the issues of diversity and employment discrimination top priorities.

“The lack of a level playing field, whether real or perceived, is a problem that must be confronted immediately and head-on,” Mr. Liu said in a statement. “With employee bias complaints on the rise, the E.E.P.C. must get the resources it needs to fulfill its charter mandate.”

The commission’s chairman, Cesar A. Perez, said he generally agreed with the findings, and pledged to continue its efforts to “request waivers from any budget-reduction proposals.” And while the commission said its members had discussed seeking financing from private and other sources, it said any grants could be problematic because of their temporary nature, and because of potential conflicts of interest.
1038 2011-10-27 Visa on Wednesday said its fiscal fourth-quarter profit rose 14 percent, as cardholders used their credit and debit cards more often.

The company, a payments processing network, said it earned $880 million, or $1.27 a share, for the three months ended Sept. 30. That compared with $774 million, or $1.06 a share, during the same period a year ago. There were 5 percent fewer shares outstanding in the most recent quarter, the result of company buybacks, which had the effect of increasing earnings per share.

Revenue rose 13 percent, to $2.38 billion, up from $2.12 billion last year.

Analysts, on average, were expecting profit of $1.25 a share, on revenue of $2.4 billion, according to data by FactSet.

The revenue shortfall was a rare miss for Visa, and shares dipped in after-hours trading. The stock fell 1.87 percent, or $1.72, to $90.30, after closing the regular session up $1.34 at $92.02.

Visa said it processed 13 billion transactions during the quarter, up 9 percent from last year.

Worldwide, Visa card holders spent $1.55 trillion on their cards and for cash advances, with debit outpacing credit. That was up 17 percent from last year’s fourth quarter.
1039 2011-10-27 It may be the least-publicized revolution of our time but the one whose impact ultimately reaches the furthest, affecting the way our buildings and buses are built, the way our schools are structured, the way our businesses conduct hiring and outfit their work stations. It’s the disability-rights movement, and “Lives Worth Living,” a Thursday “Independent Lens” on PBS, reconstructs how it emerged and eventually pushed through the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990.

The film opens with images from the past that are chillingly grim, especially those from the Willowbrook State School for children with intellectual disabilities on Staten Island, a nightmarish place exposed by, among others, a young television reporter named Geraldo Rivera in 1972. (Recent headlines have made clear that, four decades later, such problems persist in some places.) “There was a belief,” Ann Ford, director of the Illinois chapter of the National Council on Independent Living, says bluntly, “that if you had a disability, you didn’t have any desire to live a life.”

It was the return of injured veterans from World War II that began to shake that assumption. The veterans, viewed as heroes, were not being written off, and those born with disabilities started to think that they shouldn’t be either. The filmmakers interview some of the central figures in the formation of the movement, who talk about learning from the feminist and civil rights causes. Oddly, buses were again important, as Bob Kafka of the group Adapt notes.

“We didn’t want separate paratransit,” he says. “We wanted for people to be able to go to the bus stop like everybody else and get on a bus.” That simple demand, he says, evolved into the idea of access as a civil right.

It’s easy to forget that many of the changes made to benefit people with disabilities are quite recent. Frederick A. Fay, another early leader of the movement (he died in August), recalls what it was like to navigate the streets of Washington when he was younger.
1040 2011-10-27 The Nasdaq OMX Group, the exchange operator, posted third-quarter earnings on Wednesday that matched estimates, as an increase in trading helped its revenue.

Profit increased 8.9 percent to $110 million, or 61 cents a share. Revenue excluding rebates and clearing and other fees rose 18 percent from the year-earlier quarter to $438 million.

Excluding some items, earnings were 67 cents a share, matching the average estimate of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.

Stock trading volume on United States exchanges surged 14 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier as investors speculated that the European debt crisis was spreading and the United States would fall into a recession.

Higher trading volume brings in more revenue for exchanges, which charge fees for transactions conducted. Before the third quarter, Nasdaq OMX posted five consecutive quarters of better-than-forecast earnings.

Nasdaq OMX’s share of stock trading in the United States rose to 22.4 percent in the third quarter from 22 percent in the three months ending June 30, the company said. In options, the share was 26.4 percent, down from 28.9 percent in the second quarter. European stock and derivatives trading volume both rose, Nasdaq said.
1041 2011-10-27 This time, with an N.F.L. contract that expires at the end of a season in which he will not play a single down, there is none of that. While Thomas is still a member of the Giants (and has plans to visit the team in the next few weeks), he opted to have his operation and rehabilitation here, with the same doctors and trainers who helped him previously. In an interview, he said numerous times that he hoped to return to the Giants but acknowledged the reality of his situation.

“Honestly? I felt like I was a free agent as soon as I had the surgery,” Thomas said. “I love the Giants. I would love to stay there. But I know this is a business, and I have to put myself in a position to take care of myself. You only get to sell yourself once.”

It is a delicate dance, and one no professional athlete wants to endure. Some get lucky: Kansas City Chiefs running back Jamaal Charles was drafted in 2008, just like Thomas. He enjoyed a breakout season in 2010, just like Thomas. He tore his A.C.L. early this season, just like Thomas.

But Charles signed a five-year, $35.2 million contract extension in December, $13 million of which was guaranteed. Thomas did not.

“The timing,” Thomas said, again gesturing toward his knee, “could not have been much worse.”

The notion of the so-called contract-year bump — the performance surge by an athlete who knows he is playing for a raise — has been debated for years. Thomas’s big payday seemed certain to come, whether from a contract extension with the Giants this season or from the Giants or another team next season.

He was the Giants’ leading tackler in 2010, a legitimate Pro Bowl candidate, and established himself as a top cornerback in the league. The Giants have a history of taking care of their former draft picks, and Thomas knew it.

The money was no secret. Thomas and his agent, Doug Hendrickson, talked excitedly about how this was going to be the season to strike. Hendrickson even had plans to meet with Giants General Manager Jerry Reese near the start of the regular season, and Thomas said he expected he would have a new contract by Week 4.

It was a topic in training camp. Osi Umenyiora, who was involved in a contract dispute with the team, would joke, Thomas said, that “I can’t get paid because of you!” Umenyiora apparently believed, as others did, that the Giants had money earmarked for retaining Thomas.

So how much, exactly, did Thomas lose? Reese was not made available to comment, but Thomas has made his own calculations: as a top cornerback in a pass-heavy league, he believes his injury cost him a contract worth roughly $50 million, with slightly less than half guaranteed. Hendrickson was more discreet, saying it was not appropriate to discuss specific figures, but he allowed that while Thomas, who made roughly $2.5 million on his rookie contract, is hardly poor, “this would have been life-changing money.”

As it was, a confluence of events changed that. If not for the lockout, he might have had a deal before the Bears game. If not for a successful two-minute drill by the Giants, he might not have played the final series on the night he was injured.

In fact, as Thomas sat on the sideline watching the Giants’ offense move the ball late in the first half, he mentioned to the defensive backs coach, Peter Giunta, that he felt satisfied with what the starting defense had accomplished.

“I was done,” Thomas said. “From a football standpoint, I didn’t feel like we needed to go back in the game.”

But the backup quarterback David Carr threw a touchdown pass to Domenik Hixon with 35 seconds remaining, and the starters went back on the field. On the second-to-last play of the half, Thomas rushed the quarterback, but as he got into the backfield he felt a player — Giants defensive end Jason Pierre-Paul — roll into his leg.

At first, Thomas felt a burning sensation in his knee. As he went down, he remembered hoping that it was only his medial collateral ligament that was hurt; recovery from a strained M.C.L. can be only a few days.

By the time a crowd of players formed around him, however, he was more worried. He clapped his hands to his head as he rolled on to his back. The Giants’ team doctor, Russell Warren, examined him and Thomas watched nervously as Warren did a rudimentary test on his knee to check the integrity of the A.C.L.

“Is it the A.C.L.? Is it the A.C.L.?” Thomas kept saying to the trainer Byron Hansen. “Byron, is it the A.C.L.?”

Thomas recalled: “He didn’t even say anything. He just looked at me and his face was like a ghost.”

Despite the severity of his injury, Thomas lurched to his feet and walked toward the locker room with little help.

“I wasn’t going out on no cart,” he said, but because of that, teammates, fans and reporters initially thought the injury was not serious.

“We had no idea,” safety Kenny Phillips said. “Then we came into the locker room at halftime and saw him crying.”

Thomas, though, was certain. He angrily threw his gloves as he limped off, and he lingered, seething in the tunnel, before trudging to get X-rays, which would confirm what he already knew. His mother, Teressa, took his infant daughter, Tatum, into the locker room and she jumped on Thomas’s belly, wanting to know why he was crying.

“That was the only time he smiled for a few days,” Teressa said.

That night, Thomas stared at the wall in his New Jersey home. The next morning, he went to a Manhattan hospital with two other injured Giants — Marvin Austin and Brian Witherspoon — for another round of exams.

“It is depressing,” Thomas said. “Honestly, I’m not sure I’m all the way over it. You have to want to wake up every day and be the best and be excited about rehab, and I’m not sure that I am yet. I will be, but I don’t know if I am yet.”

He is getting there. Normally a presence on Twitter — he has about 25,000 followers — he went two weeks without sending a message after the injury. He has since returned, and a recent message included a picture of him and Tatum at a pumpkin patch. After having surgery Sept. 22, he spent a few weeks convalescing at his mother’s house before deciding it was time to return to his home here, even though it did not have cable or Internet hooked up.

“All I wanted to do was play Xbox online and I couldn’t do it,” Thomas said. “I know I need to get a hobby. I’m actually thinking of taking Spanish lessons.”

Four days a week, Thomas works with John Meyer, the trainer who helped him through his U.S.C. injury, at a facility near Los Angeles International Airport. The conversation between the two is light and easy, but Meyer is serious about Thomas’s recovery.

“He came out of the surgery as well as you could want,” Meyer said. “He is going to get back. It’s just a process to get him there. But we have time.”

Free agency begins in March, which will be seven months after Thomas was injured, and Thomas and Hendrickson know what lies ahead. Instead of simply letting Thomas’s play speak for itself, they will have to overcome doubts about Thomas’s health, either through workouts or video from his rehabilitation.

There is still the possibility of a multiyear deal, most likely with incentives, but Thomas conceded that he probably would have to take a one-year contract.

“He’s not a guy that got hurt in January or December, so he’s going to be able to do full speed,” Hendrickson said. “The Giants are a great organization, but if it doesn’t work out, there are going to be plenty of teams vying for Terrell.”

Perhaps, but as Thomas slogs through his recovery, it is impossible for him not to think about what might have been. He was supposed to be going to the Pro Bowl this season, supposed to be the cornerstone of the Giants’ secondary, supposed to be a star. Instead he is here, having scar tissue massaged in his knee while a thin film of dust builds on the helmet hanging in his locker across the country.

“While everyone else is playing, I’m basically relearning how to walk,” Thomas said.

Still, he has his triumphs. One day last week, Meyer pointed to Thomas’s untied shoelaces — he had been moving so gingerly there was no need to tie them — and said, “Knot those up.”

Thomas did a double take. This was progress. Meyer then led him to a machine that looked like a treadmill and had a large monitor above it. Thomas stood on the belt and began doing knee bends, over and over, staring at the screen, which showed a percentage on each side corresponding to how much of his weight Thomas was putting on that particular foot.

The goal was to trust his surgically repaired right side as much as his left, to get his body to come down with a 50-50 split. At first, he struggled; there were 42s and 44s on the right. “Anything over 46 is good,” Thomas said.

Thomas wiped his face, exhaled loudly and squatted again. The screen showed 52-48. He tried once more and got 51-49 and, then, finally, a third time.

These are his victories, his moments. They are his most valuable currency in a season that had once promised so much more.
1042 2011-10-27 But it is far too early to sound such alarms. As a result of their active participation in party politics, Ennahda women actually stand to gain more from Sunday’s election than any other group.

In May, Tunisia passed an extremely progressive parity law, resembling France’s, which required all political parties to make women at least half of their candidates. As a long-repressed party, Ennahda enjoyed more credibility than other groups. It also had a greater number of female candidates to run than any other party, and strongly supported the parity law as a result.

Many Tunisian women developed a political consciousness in reaction to Mr. Ben Ali’s severe oppression of Ennahda in the 1990s. While their husbands, brothers and sons were in jail — often for reasons as simple as attending dawn prayers — these women discovered that they had a personal stake in politics and the strength to stand alone as heads of families. When the party was legalized in March, it found a widespread base of public sympathy and grass-roots support.

As the big winner in Sunday’s elections, Ennahda will send the largest single bloc of female lawmakers to the 217-member constituent assembly. The question now is how Ennahda women will govern. Are they unwitting dupes of Islamic patriarchy, or are they merely feminist activists who happen to wear head scarves?

After interviewing 46 female activists and candidates from Ennahda, I found that many turned to politics after experiencing job discrimination, arrests, or years in prison merely because they chose to wear the head scarf or because their families were suspected of Ennahda sympathies. For some of them, this election is as much about freedom of religious expression as anything else.

“I have a master’s degree in physics but I wasn’t allowed to teach for years because of this,” said a 43-year-old woman named Nesrine, tugging the corner of her floral-print hijab, a veil banned under Mr. Ben Ali but legalized since his departure. According to Mounia Brahim and Farida Labidi, 2 of the 13 members of Ennahda’s Executive Council, the party welcomes strong, critical women in its ranks. “Look at us,” Ms. Brahim said. “We’re doctors, teachers, wives, mothers — sometimes our husbands agree with our politics, sometimes they don’t. But we’re here and we’re active.”

These women are not likely to oppose women’s rights legislation. Ennahda women are, first and foremost, Tunisians. They are well educated, and their brand of Islamism, like Tunisian society as a whole, is relaxed and comparatively progressive. Since the 1950s, Tunisian women have enjoyed greater legal protections than their counterparts in other Arab states.

Tunisians are currently seeking to reconcile this legacy of largely French-inspired civil rights policies with the aspirations of a devout public. Ennahda’s challenge lies in striking the right balance.

To do so, the party has explicitly declared that it will emulate Turkey’s governing Justice and Development Party, known as the A.K.P., which has cracked down on corruption, involved women as equal political partners, and delivered stunning economic growth rates.

Replicating this model of moderation and pious prosperity will be hard work in Tunisia, a country with staggering levels of unemployment and 25 percent illiteracy. Turkish-style democracy may look less progressive in Tunis — where angry protests recently broke out at a screening of the film “Persepolis” — than in Istanbul, where bars and dance clubs dot the city’s streets.

And there is a chance, of course, that democratic gains for women could be reversed. As history has shown in America, France, Algeria and Iran, revolutionary movements don’t always lead to greater gender equality or more inclusive politics. Women often fight fearlessly in such liberation struggles only to be sidelined when new national governments form.

Tunisian women, however, are well poised to avoid this fate. Tunisia has done an excellent job of including women in its transitional institutions thus far. This is especially true when viewed in comparison with Egypt, where the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces recently banned women from heading any party lists.

Ennahda has thus far used its newfound political heft to stimulate rather than stifle women’s participation in Tunisian politics. Its activists are presenting a potentially more accessible model of “Islamist feminism” to many rural and socially conservative Tunisian women than that of secularist parties.

Vocal, active, and often veiled, they are comfortable with the language of piety and politics. Despite the fear mongering of secular skeptics and Western pundits, their actions and aspirations are far more reminiscent of Turkey’s A.K.P. than Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood.
1043 2011-10-27 So the general’s visit, coming while the United States is negotiating a strategic agreement that will chart the Afghan-American relationship after United States combat troops withdraw in 2014, will almost certainly be freighted with meaning by Afghan observers, whether policy is discussed or not.

“General McChrystal is coming with his wife, and they will be special guests of the president,” said Aimal Faizi, the spokesman for Mr. Karzai. The invitation was formally extended more than a month ago, he said.

Several Afghan and American officials said that Mr. Karzai appeared to have a good relationship with the two senior American officials in Afghanistan now — Gen. John R. Allen, the NATO commander, and Ryan C. Crocker, the ambassador — and that the invitation to General McChrystal was more of a tribute to him personally.

Mr. Karzai and General McChrystal had a “very good” relationship, and “they traveled to many provinces together,” Mr. Faizi said.

That connection was built in part on General McChrystal’s effort to reach out to Mr. Karzai when the president’s relationship with Mr. Crocker’s predecessor, Karl W. Eikenberry, had reached its nadir. In a leaked diplomatic cable from late 2009, Mr. Eikenberry described the Afghan president as “not an adequate strategic partner.”

At the same time, the relationship with other senior American diplomat, the special envoy Richard C. Holbrooke, had become so tense that Mr. Karzai no longer wanted to meet with him. A major area of contention was Mr. Karzai’s refusal to take on endemic corruption in his government.

American officials said General McChrystal’s visit could benefit him, Mr. Karzai and the Obama administration.

“Karzai has always liked to feel he had a special relationship with the Americans beyond with the ambassador,” said Bruce O. Riedel, who conducted the first review of Pakistan and Afghanistan policy for President Obama in early 2009.

“This could be a way to develop a useful back channel for Karzai, as well as a back channel for the administration. It could let McChrystal say things that might not be all that politic for Ryan Crocker to say.”

For General McChrystal, Mr. Riedel said, the visit “is a little bit of redemption.” He continued: “The very fact Karzai asked him to come shows he’s not your normal private citizen. McChrystal enjoys the confidence of the president of Afghanistan and of the administration, who are letting him go out there.”

But even during General McChrystal’s yearlong command in Afghanistan, Mr. Karzai continued to make statements suggesting that he resented the United States’ presence and blamed the international community in Afghanistan for the electoral fraud during the 2009 presidential election.

Several Afghans who are close to the government questioned whether General McChrystal’s contact with Mr. Karzai in retirement had done much more than to keep lines of communication open.

“With a good relationship, you should be able to get things done. Like if you think that governance is a priority, then you should be able to leverage some changes, and that didn’t seem to happen,” said one Afghan businessman.

Mr. McChrystal consulted senior American officials before accepting the invitation. Both the senior regional military official, Gen. James N. Mattis, head of Central Command, and the senior diplomat here, Mr. Crocker, assented. The White House is also aware of the trip, said a spokeswoman for the National Security Council, who added that the former general “will not be carrying any particular message from the administration.”
1044 2011-10-27 Boeing said Wednesday that its third-quarter earnings topped estimates and projected that its new 787 Dreamliner would earn at least a low, single-digit profit from sales of the first 1,100 planes.

Analysts have been concerned about how long it would take for Boeing to recover its huge investment in the more fuel-efficient passenger plane, which went through several years of production delays and cost increases before the first jet was delivered last month.

Boeing’s chief financial officer, James A. Bell, said Wednesday that individual plane sales would not become profitable until 2015, but that under accounting rules, the Chicago-based company would be able to average the low, single-digit profit over all of the first 1,100 planes sold, which is expected to take about a decade.

The company expects that profit level to increase when production costs decline, he added. It expects to sell 5,000 787s in the next 20 years, he said.

The 787 is the first commercial airliner made substantially with lightweight carbon composites, which promise to cut fuel costs for airlines.
1045 2011-10-27 The data will be visible only to regulators including the Financial Stability Oversight Council, a panel of the top federal financial regulators led by the Treasury secretary, which was created by the Dodd-Frank regulations.

The data collection “follows the lessons learned during the financial crisis — lessons about the importance of monitoring and reducing the possibility that a sudden shock or failure of a financial institution will cascade through the entire financial system,” Mary L. Schapiro, the S.E.C. chairwoman said.

The commission, which now has four sitting members, voted unanimously to approve the rule.

Regulators passed a separate set of requirements this year for hedge funds to provide some information that would be made public. Those regulations required limited disclosures, however, detailing only general information about a fund’s size, its largest investors and the fund’s “gatekeepers,” including its auditors, the brokerage firms that help to execute its trades and the marketers that service the fund.

An S.E.C. official said that the commission might aggregate and publish some data on the size and scope of the hedge fund industry based on the confidential information, but it would not identify individual funds or advisers.

While anonymous information has some benefits, analysts will not have a chance to call attention to specific parts of the industry or individual firms that pose potential risks to themselves, their counterparties or segments of the entire industry.

Still, the new data could highlight industry-wide problems like an over-concentration in one type of investment. Had this data been more widely available before the financial crisis, regulators might have seen the risks posed by a concentration of mortgage-backed securities investments and related instruments that led to the 2008 crisis.

Under the new rules, all hedge funds with more than $500 million or more in assets must disclose how leveraged their investments are — that is, the degree to which the size of the investments are enhanced using borrowed money. It would also look at how liquid, or quickly sold and converted into cash, they are.

Smaller hedge funds, with $150 million to $500 million in assets, will report their general fund strategy, what firms handle their trading and clearing operations, and their counterparty risk — that is, what financial firm is on the other side of complicated bets like derivatives and which could stand to lose if the fund was unable to honor its obligations.

No funds will be required to report “position information,” or details on individual investment holdings, S.E.C. officials said, a change that was made in part because of comments received from hedge funds and others. Hedge funds with less than $150 million will not be required to file the new reports approved Wednesday.

Ms. Schapiro said only about 230 American-based hedge fund advisers would be subject to the strictest reporting rule. But those advisers handle more than an estimated 80 percent of the assets under management among all hedge funds.

Richard Baker, the president of the Managed Funds Association, a trade group representing hedge funds, said the group was “disappointed that the commission was not able to focus the scope of the form to a more targeted set of data points.” He also noted that considerable uncertainty would remain until fund managers knew if they faced different reporting requirements for portfolios overseen by the C.F.T.C.

Fund managers also expressed concern about whether the S.E.C. and other regulators would be able to keep their portfolio information confidential. Hedge funds closely guard their trading and investment strategies, fearing that rivals might try to anticipate and run ahead of the fund’s trading. Alternatively, if a hedge fund held an illiquid investment, or one not easily sold, other traders might gang up to drive the price lower and force the fund to sell at a loss.

If approved as expected by the C.F.T.C., the largest hedge funds, those with more than $5 billion in assets, would be required to report the new information beginning at the end of next June. Smaller funds would be allowed until early 2013 to begin the reports. Industry lobbyists also sought to delay when the rules would take effect.

The S.E.C.’s rules also detail some disclosure requirements for private equity funds and “liquidity funds,” which generally are short-term or money-market funds. Liquidity fund managers with more than $1 billion in assets must follow rules similar to the large-firm reporting requirements for hedge funds, while private equity funds with more than $2 billion in assets are considered large funds.

The two types of funds have different reporting frequencies, however. Because money-market funds are short-term in nature and therefore turn over their investments frequently, the largest funds in that group must report within 15 days of the end of each quarter. Private equity funds, which generally take large stakes in companies and often act as part of a company’s management, are only required to report annually, within 120 days of the end of the fiscal year.
1046 2011-10-27 “When the C.E.O. is being distracted from critical revenue-generating activities to handle financing or similar issues, it’s time for the C.F.O. to take his place and make these things happen,” said Mike Henderson, the finance chief of Lendio, a company with annual revenue of $9.6 million that is based in South Jordan, Utah, and helps small businesses secure loans. “Once the C.E.O. starts to feel the pain, act quickly, because a good C.F.O. can provide tremendous unforeseen support and help avoid some of the growth problems companies face.”

No matter how small, any company can benefit from having a finance chief to help organize its finances and track its performance. Typically, however, hiring one does not become essential until companies reach a tipping point — often $10 million to $20 million in revenue, according to Mr. Masarek and other chief executives interviewed for this article.

The main reason companies hesitate, of course, is the cost — most finance chiefs are paid six-figure salaries. That expense becomes more palatable when the company has more revenue and the company’s numbers need to be analyzed and communicated.

“I like to say that a controller is always looking backward in their role of financial reporting and closing the books,” Mr. Masarek said. “But a C.F.O. is always looking forward, someone who will own the accounting functions but also get involved strategically in how we handle things like debt and equity and how we finance the company moving forward.”

Companies that do not have the revenue to justify paying someone a six-figure salary may consider hiring someone to play the role part time. For example, when her advisory board suggested she hire a C.F.O. after her company hit $2 million in revenue, Bibby Gignilliat, founder and chief executive of Parties That Cook, which stages hands-on cooking parties and corporate team-building events, turned to a consultant on that position.

Jeff Gustafson, whom Ms. Gignilliat pays $150 an hour for typically eight hours a month, took on several critical projects for the company, including building an extensive financial model that demonstrated the impact of expanding into new cities, hiring employees and raising prices. “It has allowed me to be the C.E.O., working on the business versus working in the business,” Ms. Gignilliat said.

DEALING WITH INVESTORS For growing companies, a common trigger can be the decision to bring on investment capital. At these companies, the finance chief often becomes the liaison charged with keeping investors updated on how the company is performing.

Paul M. Doman, chief executive of the Accurate Group in Charlotte, N.C., which provides financial services to banks and mortgage lenders, made the decision last February to hire a finance chief to help manage his relationship with Evolution Capital Partners, a private equity fund based in Cleveland.

“My expectation from a C.F.O. tends to be high,” said Brendan D. Anderson, a partner in Evolution Capital. “I almost view the C.F.O. as the next step to the C.E.O. in that they understand everything and can communicate verbally and in writing how the business is performing, how the plan is coming together and also forecasting where budgets and projects are headed.”

Forecasting performance is particularly important if a company sets its sights on an initial public offering. That is why Karen S. Camp joined VirtuOz, which is based in Emeryville, Calif., and provides companies with virtual agents for online marketing, sales and support.

VirtuOz, which has 75 employees and more than $10 million in annual revenue, is considering pursuing an initial public offering in the next few years — a process Ms. Camp has guided other companies through five times as an investor and finance officer.

“Even though we are not yet a public company, we will eventually do an I.P.O. or be acquired by a public company,” Ms. Camp said. “In my role as C.F.O., I have to make sure that the nuts and bolts, reporting standards and control systems are up to a public company standard.”

In addition to her internal duties, Ms. Camp said that an important part of her job is building visibility for the company with investment bankers and analysts. “It’s all about language and communication and understanding what they need to hear,” she said.

PREPARING FOR DUE DILIGENCE Finance officers can also bring tremendous value to a company when it is considering making an acquisition or preparing itself to be acquired. For instance, when Sharon Napier spun off her Rochester, N.Y., marketing agency, Partners & Napier, from a holding company in 2004, she wanted to put her agency on the fast track to growth.

“I wanted to be in an agency that would be nationally recognized,” she said. “I figured that would likely mean that we would need to eventually make an acquisition or be acquired. And having a C.F.O. on board to manage that was part of that strategy.”

She hired Jim DiNoto for the post in 2001 and made it a crucial part of his job to analyze the market for potential acquirers or acquisitions and to ensure that the company’s books would be ready to stand up to any due diligence process.

The turning point for Partners & Napier came when it began discussions with a newly formed holding company, Project: WorldWide, about being acquired. Ms. Napier credits Mr. DiNoto with shepherding the process along until the deal was finalized in January.

“Jim took the lead role in providing the data Project: WorldWide needed from us,” she said. “He had to interact on a daily basis for eight weeks with their C.F.O. and mergers-and-acquisition team working over every single financial issue. An acquisition can break down if you can’t provide the right data or think ahead to what might be needed, and that’s where a C.F.O. like Jim is invaluable to a business.”

The bottom line is probably this: hire a C.F.O. as soon as you can afford one.
1047 2011-10-27 But say this for Mr. Bloomberg: he had rhythm. And he did not take himself too seriously.

“You can’t teach that kind of technique,” he said wryly (and rightly) in subsequent remarks from the stage. He likened conducting to being mayor in that you have a group of people in front of you trying to grasp what you are struggling to communicate and another group behind you who think they can do better.

Happily, there were conductors in the wings who could indeed do better in a widely varied program of music and dance. (The variety shrank slightly when it was announced that Barbara Cook would miss the event — on her 84th birthday, no less — because of a back injury.)

Rob Berman, the music director of the center’s Encores! program of musical theater, led the first half of the program, starting with Jerry Bock’s overture to the musical “Fiorello” in tribute to Mr. Bloomberg’s predecessor in office and on the podium. But it was left to Rob Fisher, the founding music director of Encores!, to conduct the heart of the program, a series of show tunes.

Donna Murphy sang Cole Porter’s “I Happen to Like New York,” starting in a sweet, insinuating manner and progressing to full belt. Brian Stokes Mitchell shared the Gershwins’ “It Ain’t Necessarily So” with the audience, exchanging phrases and devilish inflections with one or another part of the house. And Patti LuPone raised the presumably shored-up rafters and brought down that house with Jule Styne and Stephen Sondheim’s “Everything’s Coming Up Roses.”

Though symphonic music and opera were integral parts of the early history of City Center, performances by two classical musicians seemed slightly off center and off balance in this highly theatricalized evening. The violinist Joshua Bell played the finale from “Summer” of Vivaldi’s “Four Seasons” (with fancy fiddling from within the orchestra) in barely controlled fashion and “Maria” from Bernstein’s “West Side Story” with over-the-top emotion. And the mezzo-soprano Denyce Graves sang the aria “Mon coeur s’ouvre à ta voix” from Saint-Saëns’s “Samson et Dalilah” in a manner that conveyed more seriousness of purpose than romantic allure.

Two extended dance numbers felt hemmed in spatially, confined to the front of a stage mostly filled by the orchestra, though the dancers coped gamely and (to a nonspecialist) attractively. After Robert Battle, the artistic director of Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, announced from the stage that the theater would be the center’s principal dance company for the next decade, it was represented by an excerpt from Ailey’s own “Pas de Duke,” to music by Ellington, danced by Linda Celeste Sims and Matthew Rushing. New York City Ballet, a former resident of City Center, presented Wendy Whelan and Ask la Cour in an excerpt from Christopher Wheeldon’s “After the Rain,” to music by Arvo Pärt, hauntingly played by the violinist Kurt Nikkanen and the pianist Cameron Grant.

Brian Williams, the NBC Nightly News anchor, went on perhaps a beat too long in a stand-up routine delineating his hapless high school acting career before discussing City Center’s educational program with two bright young students, Tessa Horn and Makaela Martinez.

A chorus made up of Encores! veterans ended the evening touchingly with Bernstein’s “Take Care of This House,” capped by a refrain of his “New York, New York.” A helluva town indeed, in many ways epitomized by this helluva theater.
1048 2011-10-27 During an interview, Mr. Elop said Nokia was planning to push its smartphones into the United States, where it has struggled, early next year. He said Nokia was in advanced talks with the four major American operators, which together sell more than 90 percent of all cellphones in the country. Nokia’s new smartphones for the United States, Mr. Elop said, will run on high-speed 4G networks that use a technology called LTE, or Long Term Evolution, as well as on older 3G networks.

They will also be made to run on networks that use the C.D.M.A. standard, which is used by the market leader, Verizon Wireless.

Mr. Elop said that Nokia was listening closely to phone operators and would be flexible in meeting their demands. “If you do the math, you may come to the conclusion that clearly we are in good conversations with those operators,” he said

Microsoft, based in Redmond, Wash., is using its business connections — its server software powers a lot of cloud computing centers used by network operators — to help Nokia re-establish relationships with American operators, he said. “When we enter a market, it is not just dipping your toe in the market, but coming in with the appropriate levels of investment by us,” Mr. Elop said. “It takes work. It takes money. We are being very deliberate.”

With Lumia, Nokia aims to beat Apple and Google by designing handsets that are easier to use than the two best-selling smartphones, the Apple iPhone 4S and the Samsung Galaxy S II, which runs Google’s Android software. The Lumia 800’s start screen is a wheel of interactive tiles. By clicking a tile, users are taken directly to a preferred task, like text messaging a friend, tracking a sports team or listening to a favorite song, without having to enter and close applications.

The software interface, developed by Microsoft but refined by Nokia, is designed to remove as much laborious touch-screen tapping as possible. Marko Ahtisaari, Nokia’s head designer, said the smartphones used fluid, rather than linear, design logic, which eliminated many of the intermediary steps required with the array of static app icons that Apple and Google’s Android favor.

Shares of Nokia closed at 4.80 euros, down 0.6 percent, in European trading.

One investor said that Nokia and Microsoft must still overcome skepticism about the venture. “I have seen no evidence that Nokia and Microsoft are making a game of it — yet,” said Jeffrey P. Davis, the chief investment officer at Lee Munder Capital, an investment fund manager based in Boston with $5.4 billion under management. “Android is winning the mind space on the consumer front. The business world will probably follow.”

Neil Mawston, an analyst at Strategy Analytics, estimated that Nokia was paying $15 to Microsoft for each Windows smartphone it produced, less than the estimated $20 other handset makers must pay. The new Windows phone lineup, he said, has the potential to help restore Nokia’s fortunes in the smartphone market.

“One thing I have learned in this business is to never say never,” Mr. Mawston said.
1049 2011-10-27 The company earned a third-quarter pretax operating profit of $1.94 billion, or 46 cents a share, $111 million less than a year ago. That figure, which excludes special items related to job cuts, the end of the Mercury brand and dealer-related actions, is slightly above the consensus analyst forecast of 44 cents a share.

Operating profit was reduced by a $350 million noncash charge related to commodity hedges after prices declined significantly at the end of September, Ford said. It projected that structural and commodity costs for all of 2011 would be $3.8 billion higher than 2010, less than its initial forecast of $4 billion.

Ford said it reduced its automotive debt by $1.3 billion in the quarter to $12.7 billion. It reported positive automotive cash flow of $400 million, but automotive gross cash declined by $1.2 billion to $20.8 billion.

Its chief financial officer, Lewis W. K. Booth, said the company was on track to surpass its 2010 full-year operating profit of $8.3 billion, even though its automotive operating margins would be slightly lower. Its operations have earned $7.7 billion so far in 2011.

“The core of the business is very strong,” Mr. Booth told reporters at Ford’s headquarters. “We’re doing all this while we’re investing for the future.”

Ford workers on Oct. 19 ratified a new four-year deal with the United Automobile Workers that the company said would increase its labor costs by less than 1 percent annually. Most of the company’s 41,000 U.A.W. members will get bonuses of $6,000 and profit-sharing checks of about $3,750 this month.

The new contract prompted Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings to upgrade Ford’s credit rating two notches, to BB-plus, which is one level below investment grade. Moody’s is considering a similar upgrade.

With the labor issue settled, analysts now say they expect Ford to resume paying a dividend to shareholders as soon as 2012. The company suspended its quarterly dividend in 2006.

Mr. Booth said Ford would restore its dividend “as soon as we think our balance sheet will stand it,” but he declined to give a specific timeframe.

Brian A. Johnson, an analyst with Barclays Capital, predicted in a note to clients this week that Ford would announce a dividend early next year and pay 36 cents for 2012, increasing to 55 cents in 2015.

“The key debate around Ford continues to be the sustainability of — or potential for improvement in — Ford North America pretax profits, especially in light of tailwinds from pricing and what may turn out to be lower than previously guided headwinds from commodities and structural costs,” Mr. Johnson wrote.

Shares of Ford fell 4.5 percent to close at $11.74 on Wednesday.
1050 2011-10-27 Will this be the year that Marta will be dethroned as the winner of FIFA's women's world player of the year? Marta, a skillful Brazilian, has won the award for the past five years and was among the 10 players nominated Wednesday for this year's aw...
1051 2011-10-28 The company is considering raising its I.P.O. price above the current expected $16 to $18 a share on heightened investor demand, according to people briefed on the matter....
1052 2011-10-28 The company is considering raising its I.P.O. price above the current expected $16 to $18 a share on heightened investor demand, according to people briefed on the matter....
1053 2011-10-28 "There's this inherent tension between privacy and personalization in the digital realm," was how Michael Zimbalist, Vice President for R&D at the New York Times, began the TimesOpen discussion of privacy at personalization he was moderating.We al...
1054 2011-10-28 The offshoot of Torrisi Italian Specialties opens Nov. 7. Torrisi will have $125 prix fixe with reservations....
1055 2011-10-28 The offshoot of Torrisi Italian Specialties opens Nov. 7. Torrisi will have $125 prix fixe with reservations....
1056 2011-10-28 City Comptroller John C. Liu, a Democrat who is considering a run for mayor in 2013,  initially brushed aside suggestions that he ask an outsider to investigate possible irregularities, saying that such a process might be too costly. But he he evi...
1057 2011-10-28 City Comptroller John C. Liu, a Democrat who is considering a run for mayor in 2013, initially brushed aside suggestions that he ask an outsider to investigate possible irregularities, saying that such a process might be too costly. But he he evid...
1058 2011-10-28 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
1059 2011-10-28 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
1060 2011-10-28 An artist explores the question: Can all urban-dwelling animals be accommodated in the concrete jungle?...
1061 2011-10-28 An artist explores the question: Can all urban-dwelling animals be accommodated in the concrete jungle?...
1062 2011-10-28 Resorts World, the city's first casino, opened its doors next to Aqueduct racetrack in Queens on Friday, not a moment too soon for some people....
1063 2011-10-28 Resorts World, the city's first casino, opened its doors next to Aqueduct racetrack in Queens on Friday, not a moment too soon for some people....
1064 2011-10-28 This pie looks like a pizza....
1065 2011-10-28 This pie looks like a pizza....
1066 2011-10-28 Mark Bittman, author of “The Minimalist” and “How to Cook Everything,” shares the kitchen with some of the most influential and inventive chefs from around the globe.
1067 2011-10-28 Designing accurate simulators for drivers to get acquainted with the newly built Buddh International Circuit was complicated by the track's numerous construction delays....
1068 2011-10-28 Designing accurate simulators for drivers to get acquainted with the newly built Buddh International Circuit was complicated by the track's numerous construction delays....
1069 2011-10-28 The mayor praised the Occupy Wall Street protesters at the park for calmly and cooperatively surrendering the materials, which fire officials said posed a safety hazard....
1070 2011-10-28 The mayor praised the Occupy Wall Street protesters at the park for calmly and cooperatively surrendering the materials, which fire officials said posed a safety hazard....
1071 2011-10-28 Directional signs in the subway for the 9/11 Memorial in Lower Manhattan make use of the memorial's own trademark. Is this a benign anomaly, or the opening of a new round of private branding and marketing in the public transit system?...
1072 2011-10-28 Directional signs in the subway for the 9/11 Memorial in Lower Manhattan make use of the memorial's own trademark. Is this a benign anomaly, or the opening of a new round of private branding and marketing in the public transit system?...
1073 2011-10-28 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
1074 2011-10-28 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
1075 2011-10-28 An accord to recapitalize European banks raises questions about the measures by which banks' balance sheets are measured, and the public has a right to be skeptical, an economist writes....
1076 2011-10-28 An accord to recapitalize European banks raises questions about the measures by which banks' balance sheets are measured, and the public has a right to be skeptical, an economist writes....
1077 2011-10-28 State officials on Thursday prevented the widow of the man the police say set free dozens of exotic animals from the family’s wildlife preserve from retrieving the six surviving animals. At about the time the woman, Marian Thompson, was scheduled to pick up the animals, the State Department of Agriculture ordered them quarantined, directing that the animals remain at the Columbus Zoo and Aquarium, where they had been held since Oct. 18, when Terry Thompson uncaged 56 exotic animals before shooting himself. Forty-nine animals were hunted down and killed by law enforcement officers who said they feared the animals, which included lions and tigers, might attack people. A snow monkey was never found, and is believed to have been eaten by one of the big cats. State officials said the quarantine was ordered because the animals might be infected with a dangerous, contagious disease related to the squalid conditions under which they were kept at the Zanesville, Ohio, preserve. The three leopards, two Celebes macaques and a grizzly bear are to remain quarantined indefinitely.
1078 2011-10-28 Most Medicare beneficiaries have premiums withheld from their monthly Social Security benefits. In most cases, the cost-of-living adjustment in Social Security, averaging $43 a month for retired workers in 2012, will more than offset the increase in premiums, officials said.

Premiums for most Medicare beneficiaries have been frozen at $96.40 a month since 2008. Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, said the small increase in premiums, amounting to less than 4 percent in four years, was “pretty remarkable.” Average premiums paid by workers for employer-sponsored health insurance have increased far more — well over 20 percent since 2008, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation.

Medicare premiums for most beneficiaries have been held in check by a law that, in effect, prevents any reduction in Social Security payments that might be caused by an increase in premiums. Because of low inflation, Social Security beneficiaries did not receive cost-of-living adjustments in 2010 or 2011. About three-fourths of Medicare beneficiaries were therefore shielded against any increase in premiums.

David M. Certner, legislative policy director of AARP, the lobby for older Americans, said he was pleased that the increase in premiums would be lower than expected. But, he said, “seniors still face the very real threat of cuts to Medicare or Social Security” under recommendations being developed by a joint Congressional committee on deficit reduction.

Mr. Certner said the committee was considering proposals that would establish new co-payments for home health care and clinical laboratory services and reduce future cost-of-living adjustments in Social Security.

“These changes would far outweigh today’s good news,” Mr. Certner said.

Premiums are set to cover about 25 percent of projected spending under Part B of Medicare, a voluntary program that covers doctors’ services, diagnostic tests and outpatient hospital care for 48 million people who are 65 and older or disabled.

High-income people pay higher premiums, based on a sliding scale. For the most affluent beneficiaries — individuals with annual incomes of more than $214,000 and couples over $428,000 — the monthly premium next year will be $319.70, the administration said.

About 5 percent of Medicare beneficiaries now pay higher premiums based on income. The proportion would eventually rise to 25 percent under a deficit-reduction plan proposed last month by Mr. Obama.

The annual deductible for Part B of Medicare, the amount that beneficiaries pay for services before Medicare starts to pay, will be $140 next year, down $22 from this year. The deductible for Part A of Medicare, which covers inpatient hospital care, will rise by $24, to $1,156 next year.

Medicare officials said the modest increase in premiums for coverage of doctors’ services was part of a welcome trend. Earlier this year they announced that average premiums for private Medicare Advantage plans would decrease by 4 percent and that premiums for Medicare’s prescription drug plans would be virtually unchanged in 2012. Both types of plans are operated by insurance companies under contract with the government.

In calculating premiums for Part B, Medicare officials assumed that the program would continue paying doctors next year at current rates or slightly more. The payment formula in existing law would reduce Medicare doctors’ fees about 29 percent next year, but Congress has regularly intervened to block such cuts.

The upbeat view of Medicare officials on Thursday stands in stark contrast to the grim financial outlook that prevails on Capitol Hill. Republican lawmakers, in particular, are urgently seeking ways to rein in the growth of the program, which they describe as unsustainable.

The smaller-than-expected increase in premiums in 2012 results indirectly from renewed inflation in the last year. The administration announced last week that, because of the uptick in consumer prices, Social Security recipients would get a 3.6 percent increase in benefits in 2012. As a result, more people will also be subject to higher Medicare premiums.
1079 2011-10-28 Consumer groups and phone companies generally hailed the F.C.C.’s efforts, although both groups expressed reservations about the lack of details of what was approved on Thursday. The F.C.C. released a five-page summary of the proposal, but the complete plan, which is likely to run to more than 300 pages, will be available in the coming days.

Julius Genachowski, the F.C.C. chairman, called the commission’s action “a once-in-a-generation overhaul of universal service, keeping faith with the nation’s long commitment to connecting all Americans to communications services.”

“Over the next year, the Connect America Fund will bring broadband to more than 600,000 Americans who wouldn’t have it otherwise,” Mr. Genachowski said. “Over the following five years, millions more rural families will be connected. And today’s order puts us on the path to get broadband to every American by the end of the decade — to close the broadband deployment gap which now stands at close to 20 million Americans.”

Households in remote areas that still do not have landline telephone service will be reached either through broadband, with which they can use voice-over-Internet technology, or by wireless phone service.

The new Connect America Fund will rely on competitive bidding to distribute money to build and operate broadband service. The program also contains a component known as the Mobility Fund, which will separately promote the growth of wireless broadband, particularly in currently unserved areas.

A trade group representing cable companies, which offer broadband Internet service over the same lines used to provide cable television, said it was disappointed that the rules seemed to favor telephone companies that already have wires in place for broadband service.

Consumers Union said that it was concerned about the possible increases in fees. “We’re going to press the F.C.C. to ensure that these are temporary increases, because history has shown that these types of costs tend to stick around and go on and on and on,” said Parul P. Desai, policy counsel for the organization.

One area of uncertainty is the F.C.C.’s continued battle to bring broadband Internet service under its jurisdiction, said Gigi B. Sohn, president of Public Knowledge, a consumer rights group. A federal appeals court ruling last year limited that authority, conceivably opening the way to a court challenge to the F.C.C.’s ability to assess fees to pay for broadband service and to draw up regulations for Voice-over-Internet Protocol, the Web technology behind voice and video services like Skype.
1080 2011-10-28 The problem is not simply the judiciary. The attempt to achieve collective justice through individual entitlements is inherently conflicted. Litigation driven by individuals often produces perverse effects. For example, because laws prohibiting age discrimination outlaw mandatory retirement, older executives and professionals who suffer little if any discrimination can extract lucrative “golden handshake” retirement incentives from their employers. But because job seekers rarely sue over the job that got away, those laws don’t address a bigger problem: age discrimination in hiring.

Similarly, civil rights intended to help profoundly disabled students don’t work well in cases involving mild learning and emotional disabilities that even experts can’t distinguish from garden-variety eccentricity or poor concentration. As a result poor and minority children tend to be tracked into dead-end remedial or special education classes, while children with similar conditions but wealthier and savvier parents receive one-on-one instruction, immunity from discipline and sometimes even private school paid for at public expense.

The recent unsuccessful sex discrimination lawsuit against Wal-Mart demonstrates the inadequacy of the civil rights model. The suit accused Wal-Mart of a nationwide pattern of sex discrimination potentially affecting over a million women. Women were 72 percent of the hourly wage employees from whom Wal-Mart typically selected its managers — but were less than 10 percent of store managers and only 4 percent of district managers. Despite this statistical evidence, the Supreme Court rejected the lawsuit in June, saying there was no evidence of a nationwide policy or coordinated practice of discrimination, since most staffing decisions were left to store and district managers.

Statistics can show a pattern of discrimination, but they are not enough to prove that any particular woman was discriminated against. Wal-Mart managers typically used vague criteria like “teamwork” and “integrity” to give promotions. It’s easy for bias to hide out in the fog of subjectivity such decisions entail: how can a plaintiff prove that she had more integrity than the man who got the promotion she deserved?

Individual managers may have unconsciously allowed stereotypes to influence their decisions. This kind of inadvertent discrimination is less like Jim Crow racial bigotry and more like a workplace accident. Just as we reduce the risk of accidents through comprehensive occupational safety and health regulations rather than relying on lawsuits after the damage is already done, we could regulate employment practices to reduce the risk of discrimination.

An effective approach might use carrots and sticks: proof that a business used the best employment practices to reduce discrimination — reviewing decisions for potential bias, monitoring long-term trends and adopting more objective hiring and promotion criteria — might constitute a defense to certain kinds of civil liability, while businesses that failed to make reasonable efforts to prevent discrimination would face fines. Clear goals would replace the constant threat of litigation, and the law would seek to prevent discrimination instead of simply punishing it after the fact.

Similar reforms could further other civil rights goals. Some police departments have agreed to collect data about the people they stop and frisk (and often arrest) to see whether any racial imbalances are justified. Why not make such auditing standard practice nationwide and give the police incentives — even immunity from some kinds of civil liability — to discourage profiling?

Such reforms would mirror developments in international human rights, where some advocates have come to focus less on individual grievances than on improving the standard practices of governments and monitoring these practices through comprehensive auditing.

Moving from lawsuits to comprehensive solutions would mean compromising the ideal that every victim of discrimination was entitled to redress. That may seem like a betrayal of the civil rights legacy, but the real betrayal would be to fail to keep pace with the very social changes civil rights helped to bring about. If civil rights ideals are to be as relevant in the 21st century as they were in the 20th, we must adapt the tactics of the past to the complexities of the present.
1081 2011-10-28 Films like Martin Scorsese’s “Kundun” and Bernardo Bertolucci’s “Little Buddha” acquainted American audiences with the Tibetan Buddhist belief that the souls of great lamas are reincarnated in newborns, who must be identified and then schooled to fulfill their destinies as spiritual teachers. But what happens if a designated youngster rejects that call?

Jennifer Fox’s remarkable documentary “My Reincarnation” follows one such individual over the course of 20 years, only to find that destiny will have its way. In the late 1980s Ms. Fox (“An American Love Story”) served as the secretary of Chogyal Namkhai Norbu, a master of the Dzogchen tradition of Buddhism who has lived in Italy for a half-century and built a teaching and spiritual center there, and was permitted to film it. His Westernized son, Yeshi, has been acknowledged since he was 5 to be the reincarnation of his father’s uncle Khyentse, a great Dzogchen master himself. Yeshi, though, in his late teens, strongly rebuffs a life expected by others, including his father, to whom he does not feel especially close.

Ms. Fox returned 13 years later, filming off and on until about 2009. Yeshi — now in his 30s with a family of his own and a career in information-technology management — has, through dreams and visions, a slow but insistent spiritual awakening. When he finally travels to Tibet, he is met by hundreds of Khyentse’s followers, some of whom have hungered for his arrival for decades.

These are among the film’s most successful scenes; others include those outlining the casual, ordinary home life of a Tibetan master. Still, an awful lot is packed into a bit more than 80 minutes — Yeshi’s journey, his father’s history, the growth of the Dzogchen movement, samples of Buddhist teachings — and the parts don’t always cohere. So the father-and-son story wins out.

Especially in the early footage, Chogyal Namkhai Norbu is an engaging, charismatic figure; by the end, Yeshi is finding his own footing, able to relate to a young, wired-in audience. “My Reincarnation” makes a pretty strong case: when the family business is enlightenment, listen to your dad.
1082 2011-10-28 Re “Aftermath at the Animal Preserve: A Mauled Corpse and Now a Mass Grave” (news article, Oct. 21):

While our minds and hearts focus on the terrible slaughter and the near-miss human catastrophe in Ohio, we must not allow this to be considered an isolated tragedy.

Like thousands of exotic animals kept in private collections across the country, these animals endured a life of extreme confinement and often neglect. Always in the name of “love for animals,” but perhaps with the same delusional mental state of an animal hoarder, these owners subject creatures that are meant to be in the wild to a life of uncertainty and often misery.

Unbelievably, they can be bought with the click of a mouse with no credentials needed to ensure proper keeping. The moment of public attention and outcry often comes only as the financial strains of ownership result in investigations for cruelty and neglect, forfeiture, attack against their keeper or in this extreme case, a sick-minded release.

But the crime against the animals and the threat to public health and safety are a reality every day of their captive lives. Let us now galvanize the will of the public and public officials to support new legislation and the compliance with existing laws to prohibit the private ownership of exotic animals.
1083 2011-10-28 A backstage comedy set at one of those summer Renaissance fairs? Sure, that could work, given a savvy, “Shakespeare in Love” sort of script and actors skilled in comic subtlety. “All’s Faire in Love,” unfortunately, has neither and, under Scott Marshall’s direction, ends up as a hodgepodge without a unifying tone.

The movie, which turned up at some film festivals in 2009, features as its female lead Christina Ricci, of the new television series “Pan Am,” which may explain why it is resurfacing. She plays Kate, who, as the film opens, gets the heebie-jeebies during an interview for some Wall Streetish job and bolts, choosing instead to indulge her theatrical dreams at a Renaissance fair.

Also finding himself there is Will (Owen Benjamin, who was engaged to Ms. Ricci for a time), a college quarterback sent to the fair by a professor in lieu of summer school. Will and Kate develop an interest in each other, and the plot builds toward a climactic talent show competition involving rival factions among the performers.

The script, by Mr. Marshall and R. A. White, doesn’t contain enough that’s genuinely funny, which leaves everybody trying too hard. Only Ann-Margret, as the fair’s reigning queen, retains her dignity.

“All’s Faire in Love” is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). It has Renaissance cleavage and mild sexual situations.
1084 2011-10-28 GREENSBORO, N.C. — A federal judge on Thursday rejected former Senator John Edwards’s request to dismiss criminal campaign finance charges against him, all but ensuring that Mr. Edwards will go to trial in January.

The ruling, by Judge Catherine C. Eagles of United States District Court here, came after a full day of arguments on Wednesday.

“After all these years, I finally get my day in court,” Mr. Edwards said as he left the courtroom Thursday morning. “I never for a second believed I violated campaign laws.”

Mr. Edwards, the 2004 Democratic vice presidential nominee, has been charged with violating finance laws to hide an extramarital affair during his 2008 presidential campaign. Abbe Lowell, a powerhouse Washington criminal defense lawyer who recently joined Mr. Edwards’s legal team, spent much of the hearing arguing that the government’s case was vindictive, politically motivated and based on an overly broad definition of campaign contributions.

Prosecutors countered that the case was straightforward. Mr. Edwards solicited the money and used it, in effect, to try to influence the outcome of the 2008 campaign, they said. If convicted, Mr. Edwards faces a maximum penalty of 30 years in prison and $1.5 million in fines.
1085 2011-10-28 Migration in several states that saw huge gains in the earlier part of the decade shrank in recent years. Florida saw its first migration loss since the 1940s. States that lost huge populations from out-migration in the early 2000s saw a decline in the number of people leaving as mobility slowed nationwide.
1086 2011-10-28 Love takes a beating (though really it just gets roughed up some) in “Like Crazy,” Drake Doremus’s romance about young lovers struggling to get it — their relationship, emotions, sentences, time zones and paperwork — together. The likable Anton Yelchin and Felicity Jones play Jacob and Anna, two very un-crazy kids who, after meeting at their Los Angeles college, fall in like and then bed, love and then trouble when Anna, a British citizen, overstays her visa, as Jacob nods his approval. Later, when she tries to return to the United States, the meanies at immigration don’t let her back into the country. Tears, separations and texting ensue in this low-key slice of American indie-film realism.

Shot in hand-held digital, the movie opens abruptly with Anna, an aspiring writer, delivering a paper in a classroom, where she and Jacob trade looks. She leaves him a cute note on his car (“please don’t think I’m a nutcase”), and soon after a cafe conversation they’re confessing their mutual appreciation for Paul Simon’s “Graceland.” The two quickly become one during short, sketchlike scenes, some without synchronized sound, that are meant to suggest a deepening of feeling. They hold hands, walk on the beach, dine with her parents (Alex Kingston and Oliver Muirhead). Afterward, again in blissful aloneness, Jacob and Anna fling themselves into each other’s arms, his open mouth reaching for hers as if gasping for oxygen, a moving if isolated moment of awkward, urgent desire.

That insistence fades in a movie that is itself largely a conventional, wan affair, despite its art-cinema flourishes, like scenes that start and end in medias res. This abruptness sometimes works (Mr. Doremus has an evident fondness for the French New Wave), but there are other times when it feels as if the editor, Jonathan Alberts, had come to the movie’s rescue by cutting in and out of scenes to create interest and tension. He may have had no choice because the actors improvised a portion of it, working from a 50-page outline that Mr. Doremus wrote with Ben York Jones. Mr. Yelchin and Ms. Jones don’t demonstrate here that they yet have the tools to fill in such blanks.

“Like Crazy” is more visually and narratively ambitious than Mr. Doremus’s previous film, the charmless mumblecore-esque “Douchebag” (about two antagonistic brothers), but it’s still thinly realized. Turned back at the airport when she tries to re-enter the United States, Anna ends up on the wrong side of the country’s immigration policies. That she and Jacob are, after Sept. 11, at all surprised by this turn of events doesn’t work in anyone’s favor. The overstayed visa is a narrative contrivance, a way to cook up conflict for the lovers. But it makes them seem grievously naïve (if you’re being charitable) or simply dumb (if you’re not). Mostly, though, it’s a labored device that works against Mr. Doremus’s sometimes persuasive groping for realism.

After Anna returns to Britain, the couple try to keep things going. Yet Jacob, for reasons that are never made satisfyingly clear, doesn’t visit often and rejects her suggestion that he try working in Britain, undermining the idea that theirs is a great passion. (He also turns down her parents’ offers of financial help.) Romeo and Juliet died for their love; Anna and Jacob don’t even Skype. Instead, they settle into their increasingly separate lives, burrowing into work even as they’re brought together either in person or through the parallel editing. They strengthen their bond and loosen it, pushing and pulling without making it bleed. She blogs for a magazine, he makes furniture, sometimes alongside a new distraction, Sam (Jennifer Lawrence). Life happens, not like crazy at all.

“Like Crazy” is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). Some adult language and discreet lovemaking.

Directed by Drake Doremus; written by Mr. Doremus and Ben York Jones; director of photography, John Guleserian; edited by Jonathan Alberts; music by Dustin O’Halloran; production design by Katie Byron; costumes by Mari Chisholm; produced by Jonathan Schwartz and Andrea Sperling; released by Paramount Vantage. Running time: 1 hour 28 minutes.
1087 2011-10-28 Those of us who live in cities — more than half the world’s population, according to many recent estimates — experience them mainly at eye and street level. Each urban environment has its own character and can therefore seem more like the result of natural processes than of complex human intentions. A city develops organically, through the complex interplay of economics, biology and countless local, individual decisions, but also by means of planning on the part of architects, engineers and politicians.

The mingling of design and happenstance is, to some extent, the deep subject of “Urbanized,” Gary Hustwit’s fascinating, idea-packed new documentary. In this remarkably concise film — which could easily have sprawled to 15 hours on public television — Mr. Hustwit and his crew survey both the challenges and promises facing some of the world’s important cities. Their itinerary may not take them everywhere you want it to, but it also turns up some unexpected vistas along with familiar ones.

Here is Paris, yes, and New York (looking especially gorgeous in the movie’s final shot), and here are the slums of Mumbai and the beaches of Rio de Janeiro. But have you heard about the bike lanes of Bogotá, Colombia? About the walkways threaded through the townships on the outskirts of Cape Town? About the new housing projects that are replacing the informal settlements in Santiago, Chile?

All of that was news to me, but even viewers with deep knowledge of modern urban planning are likely to learn something from the carefully selected images and thoughtful interviews that make up most of “Urbanized.” This is the third film in Mr. Hustwit’s trilogy of documentaries on the role of design in the modern world, and it can be thought of as the conceptual shell that contains the other two. The first, “Helvetica,” is about the shape of the printed word, and in particular the font named in the title. “Objectified” concerns itself with the shape and packaging of the things we buy, sell and carry. In both cases a phenomenon likely to be taken for granted is shown to have a complex back story, a set of often unexamined reasons for being the way it is.

“Urbanized” is less focused on the history of cities than on the way they are adapting to the challenges of the present and future, notably climate change and population growth. This slant leaves some inevitable gaps — the David-and-Goliath battle between Robert Moses and Jane Jacobs is mentioned, but important earlier figures like Daniel Burnham and Frederick Law Olmsted are not — and there is a distinct bias in favor of Jacobs-influenced new urbanism and against other approaches to city planning.

Defenders of mid-20th-century Brasília and early-21st-century Phoenix are heard from, but the prevailing argument in “Urbanized” is that these cities are examples of how to do it wrong. The Brazilian capital is seen as a monument of modernist arrogance, while Phoenix represents soul-killing standardization and the reckless overconsumption of carbon-based fuel. Against these follies, the case is made for pedestrian-friendly metropolitan cores, bicycle lanes and an ethic that combines the knowledge of experts with the desires and innovations of local residents.

Mr. Hustwit relies more on the testimony of professionals than on the wisdom of ordinary people, but that is in keeping with the overall mood of the film, which is lively, curious and pedagogical. Like a really good class taught by a team of enthusiastic professors, “Urbanized” supplies grist for many late-night arguments or solitary ruminations. It is worth venturing out of your room, climbing on your bike or boarding a low-emissions bus and fighting your way through a crowd to see.
1088 2011-10-28 Citing “financial challenges,” the Brooklyn Museum has raised its suggested admission price to $12, and $8 for students and those 62 and over. The change is a $2 hike in each category; the last increase was two and a half years ago. It’s still a bargain, considering the Museum of Modern Art charges adults $25 — and that’s not a suggestion — and in June the Metropolitan Museum of Art raised its suggested admission fee to $25, from $20. “We wanted to do this as modestly and cautiously as we could,” said Arnold L. Lehman, the Brooklyn Museum’s director.
1089 2011-10-28 After a weeklong strike by museum workers, the Musée d’Orsay in Paris, right, reopened on Thursday, enabling visitors to discover the museum’s renovated galleries. Employees staged a walkout last Thursday, the day of the planned reopening of the Impressionist galleries, because no additional workers had been recruited despite the addition of more than 21,000 square feet of display space. They ended the strike Thursday morning as the French culture ministry agreed to start hiring more workers earlier than initially planned, according to a museum spokeswoman. The reopening had been widely anticipated after a $28 million project that took 18 months, during which nearly half the museum’s galleries were closed.
1090 2011-10-28 “Was it disappointing? Sure it was,” Steen said, talking about the narrow loss to Denison last spring. “It was a very humbling experience. One of the old sayings in sport is success breeds success. But does it really? Maybe temporarily it does. But it also breeds complacency. At some point, there is a waning of intention, purpose and drive, and most of that happens unconsciously.

“But I am a firm believer that the exalted will be humbled and the humbled will be exalted. The guys now see it as an opportunity.”

Those who know Steen figure he is delighting in the new season, if for no other reason than it starts differently from the 31 before it. Timothy Shutt, a humanities professor, has been at Kenyon for 26 years. A collegiate swimmer at Yale, he is the public-address announcer at the Kenyon meets — he has not missed one since he arrived on campus, he said — and also mentioned that he has helped out in various parts of the program over the years.

“Think about it: what’s more enjoyable, taking it back or winning No. 32?” Shutt said. “That’s easy. It’s taking it back. That’s what he’s focused on.”

Bakk agreed. “This is a new situation,” he said, “one that hasn’t been seen in a long, long time. He enjoys that.”

The Kenyon community and the non-Kenyon swimming community continue to be amazed by what Steen has done over more than three decades. Jennifer Delahunty, Kenyon’s dean of admissions and financial aid, called Steen “a human performance detective.”

“I don’t know how he does that,” she said. “But that’s what I try to do.”

When she took the Kenyon job in 2003, Delahunty said, she received an e-mail from a friend saying: “Congratulations! Do you swim?” She did not know then what it meant. She does now.

“It’s an indicator of quality, of excellence, like The Kenyon Review,” she said, referring to the prestigious 72-year-old literary magazine, which has published works by Robert Penn Warren and Flannery O’Connor.

There are Steen disciples all over college swimming. The head coach at Denison, Gregg Parini, swam under Steen as a member of the first Kenyon title team in 1980. The head coaches at Bates (Peter Casares) and Emory (Jon Howell) were the interim coaches at Kenyon who won in the two years Steen was absent. Howell, an all-American at Kenyon, has coached the Emory women to the last two N.C.A.A. Division III titles.

John Young was a decorated swimmer at Division III Williams and was an assistant at Kenyon under Steen for three years. He now is the head coach at Davidson and said he looks to Steen and Kenyon as examples.

“There’s a culture at Kenyon that cares about swimming,” Young said. “It has supported a level of aspiration that any small college can use as a model. They think outside the box. They don’t worry about the location of the college or the size of the college. It’s what I am trying to bring to Davidson.”

The Kenyon men’s season began Oct. 22 with a narrow 124-106 loss to Denison in the seven-team Kenyon College Relays. The team swims at Ohio State on Friday. The swimmers do their best, they say, to stay in the “here and now” even as they talk about being ready “in March,” which is, of course, tournament time.

From the waning days of the Carter administration to the early days of the Obama administration, tournament time for the swimmers in this hamlet unconditionally produced a swimming championship for the men. Most of the time it was almost preordained; the 2010 men’s champions, for instance, beat second-place Denison by 424 points.

But for the first time since 1979, a swimming season begins without the phrase defending champion. Those are two words this season’s team has every intention of restoring to the everyday Kenyon lexicon — maybe not for 31 more years in a row, but for at least another 12 months.
1091 2011-10-28 “Medvedev is not prepared to govern in a high-ranking capacity either as president or prime minister,” Mr. Luzhkov said in the interview. “Medvedev as a premier will be very weak.”

A few days after that interview, Mr. Luzhkov, who is currently outside Russia, was summoned for questioning in an embezzlement investigation involving the Bank of Moscow, an institution sponsored by the Moscow government that prosecutors suspect illegally transferred money into his billionaire wife’s accounts while he was mayor.

He has only been named as a witness in the case so far, but there have been indications he could soon face charges. Speaking to reporters this week, Sergei Naryshkin, the head of the presidential administration, said the former mayor’s tenure was defined by “an outrageous level of corruption allowed by Luzhkov and his circle.”

In response to those remarks, Mr. Luzhkov filed a defamation lawsuit on Thursday, seeking about $33,000 in damages, the Interfax news agency reported.

The confrontation, which has consumed the Russian news media, could prove problematic for the Kremlin before parliamentary elections in December. Though hardly loved in Russia, Mr. Luzhkov has been able to marshal the news media’s fascination with him to amplify his criticism of the government. In the past two weeks, he has given interviews to no less than six Russian-language media outlets, firing off critiques that have ricocheted through the blogosphere.

In his latest interview, published Thursday in the newspaper Izvestia, he accused the Kremlin of orchestrating a campaign of political repression against him.

“We live in a sick government, which has a law enforcement system filthy with corruption and a lack of an objective judicial system,” he said. “And unfortunately, we live in a country lacking real presidential authority. And this is the most frightening thing.”

Natalya Timakova, the Kremlin’s spokeswoman, said Mr. Luzhkov’s claims of political repression were “laughable” and endowed “a little too much honor on a retired politician,” the news agency Itar-Tass reported.

Mr. Luzhkov’s critics have long accused him of manipulating Russia’s often ambiguous legal system to his advantage. With his proletarian peaked cap and folksy speech, Mr. Luzhkov was Moscow’s colorful frontman for nearly two decades, though he is most likely to be remembered for the corruption that opponents say reached extremes during the latter years of his tenure.

Critics and now government officials point to the enormous wealth of those close to Mr. Luzhkov, including a deputy mayor who was said to favor a million-dollar diamond watch. Mr. Luzhkov’s wife, a real estate developer named Yelena Baturina, rose from obscurity to become Russia’s richest woman.

By presenting himself as a crusader for political rights now, Mr. Luzhkov could also be trying to curry favor with Western governments should he need asylum, like several fallen officials in the past, said Kirill V. Kabanov, director of the National Anti-Corruption Committee, an advocacy organization based in Moscow.

Mr. Luzhkov’s whereabouts abroad are unclear, but he may be in Austria, where his family is said to own a home. He has vowed to return for questioning in the Bank of Moscow case in November.

His opponents, possibly including Mr. Medvedev, would prefer to see him stand trial. But for the Kremlin, dangers may lurk in giving the witness stand over to a former official who had access to embarrassing information.

“I think that the president has decided to send the former mayor to prison,” Stanislav Kucher, a political analyst, told Kommersant FM radio on Thursday. “And if he does, Luzhkov could drop a bomb.”
1092 2011-10-28 It is competing with big companies like Google, Apple and Amazon.com, which offer increasingly sophisticated ways to store, share and sync files, and smaller ones like Box.net, YouSendIt and SugarSync. This month, Citrix Systems bought ShareFile and Research in Motion bought NewBay, both cloud storage services.

Dropbox allows people to access files, like documents, photos and music, on any device wherever they are, without pesky zip files or hulking e-mail attachments. As people edit files, Dropbox updates them so a single file is available on all devices. Most people use it free and can pay for additional storage.

Dropbox, which started in 2007, has 45 million users who save more than two billion files each week. But it has scared some people, too. In June, a security breach left Dropbox accounts accessible for several hours, and a complaint filed with the Federal Trade Commission says Dropbox misled users about privacy.

Dropbox says it uses the same security measures as banks. Files are encrypted and Dropbox restricts its employees’ access to files. But security is only as good as a user’s password. Dropbox said it is working on two-step authentication, so people would enter a second password sent to their phone, for instance.

“These are all things we take very, very seriously because our reputation and the confidence and trust people have in Dropbox is what we’ll succeed by,” said ChenLi Wang, team leader for business and sales.

Millions already sign up with their work e-mail addresses and the company estimates that at least a million businesses use the service.

Dropbox for Teams, which starts at $795 annually for five users, has 1,000 gigabytes of storage and phone customer support, and gives I.T. departments control over adding and removing users.

SusieCakes, a California bakery chain, has been testing Dropbox for Teams to share petty cash reports in real time and to exchange documents with outside lawyers. The service is easier to use than options like Microsoft’s file-sharing service, called Windows Live SkyDrive, said Houston Striggow, SusieCakes’ co-founder.

“It’s really proven for us to be a powerful business tool that’s made us a lot more efficient and productive,” he said.

But Mr. Schadler, the analyst, said that before it would get widespread business adoption, Dropbox needed features like security controls to automatically stop people from sharing confidential documents. Dropbox says it is working on new features, including extra security measures and collaboration tools.

Of Dropbox’s competitors, Box.net has made the most headway in businesses, Mr. Schadler said. Google is also going after businesses with tools like Google Docs, which lets employees collaborate on the same version of a document, and Chromebooks, laptops that store everything online so people can access it from any computer.

Sujay Jaswa, Dropbox’s vice president of business development and sales, said its service had an advantage over big companies because it enabled iPads, Android phones and PCs to work together. “You need a company like us that doesn’t have a horse in the race to be there for consumers,” he said.
1093 2011-10-28 Oil prices began a steady climb at the end of last year because of expectations that the global economy was recovering and sudden fears of supply shortages as political turmoil began spreading across North Africa and the Middle East.

The Brent oil benchmark price jumped nearly 50 percent in the July through September period, compared with the year before, but oil prices have eased a bit in recent months.

Many energy experts say oil prices can remain at current high levels, but only if Europe averts a financial collapse; the United States avoids another recession; and China, India and other developing countries continue to grow strongly. A MasterCard SpendingPulse survey released this week showed that demand for gasoline in the United States declined by 2.8 percent for the week ending Oct. 21, compared with a year ago. Demand in Europe has also eased, although it has been more resilient in developing countries.

Supplies are also uncertain, and they remain tight.

The turmoil in Libya took 1.3 million barrels a day of high-quality crude off world markets earlier in the year. Exports are flowing again but at much reduced rates. Meanwhile violence in Nigeria has put production there in doubt.

Exxon Mobil reported that its net income rose to $10.33 billion in the three months through September, from $7.35 billion a year earlier. But analysts were not impressed. “Production volumes and chemical earnings are tracking below our full-year estimates,” Allen Good, a Morningstar analyst, wrote in a note.

Net income at Shell, the biggest oil company in Europe, rose to $6.98 billion in the quarter from $3.46 billion in the same period a year earlier.

“Shell did a lot better than expected, but Exxon came roughly in line,” said Fadel Gheit, senior oil analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. “Shell had higher than expected production and better than expected refining and chemical results.”

Thursday in the United States, shares of Exxon closed at $81.88 up 1 percent. Shell’s Class A American depositary receipts were at $73.33, up nearly 2 percent. Benchmark oil prices rose by more than 3 percent. Shell’s chief executive, Peter Voser, said in a statement, “We are making good progress against our targets, to deliver a more competitive performance.”

Mr. Voser said Shell was moving ahead with its plan to focus on its most valuable assets and invest in new projects to ensure continued production. Shell has completed $6.2 billion of asset sales so far this year — $1.8 billion of them in the third quarter. Shell had planned to raise $5 billion from asset sales this year.

New projects in Qatar and Canada helped production levels, Shell said. The projects are part of a $100 billion b investment program

While oil company earnings have been generally strong, several other companies this week have reported a drop in production volumes because of a variety of problems, including the turmoil in North Africa and the Middle East, production shortfalls in Alaska and the North Sea, and interruptions in production because of an oil spill in China.

ConocoPhillips, which reported a 12 percent production drop, said it was increasing its exploration and production budget by roughly $2 billion, or nearly 15 percent, next year. BP said that it expected production to grow as it prepares to drill again in the Gulf of Mexico more than a year after the Deepwater Horizon disaster.
1094 2011-10-28 Among the close-knit fraternity of defense lawyers, federal judges and government prosecutors in white-collar law, Gary P. Naftalis is an elder statesman.     In his more than 40-year career, Mr. Naftalis has been called on to defend embattled chi...
1095 2011-10-29 The Cardinals' Albert Pujols heads the list of baseball players on the market this off-season, with the Yankees' C. C. Sabathia and the Mets' Jose Reyes the other top names....
1096 2011-10-29 The Cardinals' Albert Pujols heads the list of baseball players on the market this off-season, with the Yankees' C. C. Sabathia and the Mets' Jose Reyes the other top names....
1097 2011-10-29 Stanford beat Southern California, 56-48, after the Trojans fumbled the ball late in triple overtime....
1098 2011-10-29 Live analysis of today's college football action, from opening kickoff to final whistle....
1099 2011-10-29 Samantha Stosur beat Li Na, 6-1, 6-0, to advance to the semifinals of the WTA Championships in Istanbul. Stosur, the United States Open champion, dominated Li, the French Open winner, dropping only the fifth game of the first set as she extended her career record against Li to 6-0. Stosur will face Petra Kvitova. Victoria Azarenka and Vera Zvonareva also advanced.
1100 2011-10-29 The chief prosecutor has reopened an investigation into the forced sterilizations of thousands of women during the 1990-2000 government of Alberto Fujimori. Peru’s new government informed the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights this week that it was reviving the inquiry. A previous government had shelved it.
1101 2011-10-29 “We’re having fun as if we were 15, 18 years old,” said a substitute striker, Rubén Suárez, by way of explanation. It was Suárez who smashed in the stunning free-kick winner from 30-plus yards in extra time against Real Sociedad.

It is nice that Suárez and his teammates are feeling young these days, because they are actually the graying geezers of La Liga. Levante’s starting lineup often averages over 30, and, according to Opta Sports, no other Liga club has crossed that threshold this season.

Levante is led by its captain, Sergio Ballesteros, a 36-year-old steamroller of a defender who has had to face criticism about his weight. The leading scorer, Juanlu, was loaned to four clubs in the span of four years, each time to a squad outside the first division.

Nano, who scored the first goal against Real Sociedad on Wednesday, has played in one Champions League match in his career. He was injured in it.

Suárez did not make his Liga debut until he was 31. Diminutive and amiable, he reflected this week on the Liga power structure and how unlikely it is that Levante finds itself at the top.

“Logistically, the power to have money to sign players is always important,” he said in a nod to the Liga heavyweights, “but what it comes down to is that we have a good group, a good dressing room and a good atmosphere to work.”

For Levante’s match against Real Sociedad, the attendance at Ciutat de Valencia Stadium was 12,347. One of those seated near the press area was Pau Ballester, the stadium announcer. Whenever a goal was scored or a substitution made, Ballester ran from his seat into a nearby broadcast room to announce the news. The crowd did not surprise him, because Levante’s support network is as small as its budget.

“The stadium is too big for the Levante fans,” he said. “We are just 11,000 socios. This stadium is 25,000 chairs. We are a small team, you know?

“In Valencia, there are two teams and Levante has been always the poor team, the small team. So to be a Levante fan in Valencia is really difficult because all the news, newspapers, radio stations are always talking about Valencia. So people who are fans of Levante are because of their soul. They really feel Levante.”

When Suárez won the match with his seeing-eye free kick, it was like magic. The ball found the net and Ballester shuffled about, excited yet a little confused, like a first-time lottery winner. He was not alone. Levante had not mounted a comeback after trailing at halftime since February 2008. Half-capacity could not have felt more fulfilled.

After Levante held on for the victory, a Uruguayan taxi driver named Jose Luis immediately noted how incredible it was that Levante could succeed without a robust budget to sign players. A self-proclaimed film buff, Luis spoke of a movie from the United States he had just read about, “Moneyball.”

Levante currently sits one point ahead of Real Madrid, whom it beat, 1-0, earlier this season, and two points ahead of Barcelona. Yet the average goal differential of the two giants (plus 24) is twice that of Levante’s (plus 12).

Levante’s position is even more impressive when one considers that Real Madrid and Barcelona have, more or less, performed up to their lofty expectations. Real Madrid is the only team still undefeated and untied in the Champions League group stage, and Barcelona is off to its best start ever, unbeaten in all competitions.

Few expect Levante to keep its league lead, including its players.

“To keep our feet on the ground and survive, that’s our goal,” Suárez said. “And the team knows this.”

And yet, those who really want to dream will take note that Levante’s mascot is a frog, and that there is that fable about the frog that turns into a prince.

When asked who Levante’s princess might be, midfielder Valdo’s eyes lit up. “The princess?” he asked. “Depends. I don’t know.” Then he mentioned the Champions League, which would be the unlikeliest of destinations for undernourished Levante.

But as a large frog in the stadium display states in Valencian Spanish: “Si es que, som una gran familia.” Translation: “Yes, we are a great big family.” And right now, that family is pretty formidable.
1102 2011-10-29 “There is a gold rush of sorts taking place right now,” said David Hamod, president and chief executive officer of the National U.S.-Arab Chamber of Commerce. “And the Europeans and Asians are way ahead of us. I’m getting calls daily from members of the business community in Libya. They say, ‘Come back, we don’t want the Americans to lose out.’ ”

Yet there is hesitancy on both sides, and so far the talk greatly exceeds the action. The Transitional National Council, hoping to avoid any echo of the rank corruption of the Qaddafi era, has said no long-term contracts will be signed until an elected government is in place. And with cities still bristling with arms and jobless young men, Libya does not offer anything like a safe business environment — hence the pitches from security providers.

Like France and Britain, the United States may benefit from the Libyan authorities’ appreciation of NATO’s critical air support for the revolution. Whatever the rigor of new rules governing contracts, Western companies hope to have some advantage over, say, China, which was offering to sell arms to Colonel Qaddafi as recently as July.

“Revenge may be too strong a word,” said Phil Dwyer, director of SCN Resources Group, a Virginia contracting company that opened an office in Tripoli two weeks ago to offer “risk management” advice and services to a company he would not name. “But my feeling is those who are in favor” with the transitional council “are going to get the nod from a business point of view.”

The Security Contracting Network, a job service run by Mr. Dwyer’s company, posted on its blog two days after Colonel Qaddafi’s death that there would be plenty of work opening up in Libya.

“There will be an uptick of activity as foreign oil companies scramble to get back to Libya,” the company said, along with a need for logistics and security personnel as the State Department and nonprofit organizations expand operations. “Keep an eye on who wins related contracts, follow the money, and find your next job,” the post advised.

In Tripoli, there is a wait-and-see atmosphere. At breakfast on Friday in a downtown hotel, a British security contractor pointed out the tables of burly men — hired guns like himself. “Look at it,” he said. “Full of ’em.”

Many are still protecting foreign journalists, but others are hoping to get training contracts with a fledgling government trying to tame its unruly armed forces. Security industry officials say the work here may never match the colossal scale of spending in Iraq and Afghanistan, but with a squeeze coming on European and American government spending, it is a prize nonetheless.

Business opportunities for Western companies began opening in Libya in 2004, when Colonel Qaddafi’s decision to give up his nuclear weapons program ended his country’s pariah status. Mr. Hamod led four American business delegations to Libya between 2004 and 2010 and watched “a gradual thawing of commercial relations,” he said.

Total foreign direct investment in Libya had grown to $3.8 billion in 2010, from an estimated at $145 million in 2002, according to the World Bank. But many deals were skewed by brazen demands from Colonel Qaddafi’s children for a share of the proceeds, and the state of the country was grim after many years of economic sanctions and neglect.

Libya “needed everything,” Mr. Hamod said: banking and financial services, hospitals and medical clinics, roads and bridges, and infrastructure for energy and for the oil industry.

Now, after months of fighting, and with the security situation still fragile, there are huge new requirements, like rebuilding apartment complexes reduced to rubble by shelling, guarding oil installations as they restore or expand production, and training and equipping new armed forces.

Mr. Hamod said American companies are often more hesitant than Chinese or some European companies about operating in a tumultuous environment like that of post-Qaddafi Libya. “There’s reluctance to charge headlong back into Libya,” he said. “Historically, U.S. companies are interested in the rule of law on the ground and what it might mean for a multimillion-dollar investment.”

At a Group of 8 meeting in Marseille, France, in September, finance ministers pledged $38 billion in new financing, largely loans, to Arab countries between 2011 and 2013. Though Libya is now pumping less than one-third of its prewar oil production of 1.7 million barrels a day, it has Africa’s largest oil reserves, which eventually should mean a steady supply of cash.

The simultaneous excitement and confusion for people exploring opportunities in Libya are evident in proliferating Libya-themed groups on LinkedIn, the online business-oriented social network.

“Can anyone in the group tell me if there are flights into Tripoli,” wrote Peter Murphy, an Irish surveyor now working on an offshore wind project, on a LinkedIn discussion page called Anglo Libya Business Group. “Also, what is the situation for business visas for business travelers?”

One answer came from Mabruk Swayah, who identified himself on LinkedIn as a Libyan working in business development. “Hi friends you are all welcome to Libya,” Mr. Swayah wrote. “Just make sure you go through the proper channels for your work contracts and don’t get involved in bribes, inducements or sweeteners to officials.”

He added, “Remember we have free media now.”
1103 2011-10-29 MOSCOW — The interior of the newly restored Bolshoi Theater was resplendent with sable and décolletage and claret-colored damask on Friday, as Russia’s new aristocrats leaned out from their balconies with opera glasses, hoping for a glimpse into the czar’s box, where the president was sitting.

But if you wanted to understand the significance of the event, it was more useful to stand outside, where a few hundred people not lucky enough to get tickets were watching the gala on two large screens. It was a cold, miserable night, and the whole thing was covered live on television, but they stood there anyway, and when columns of ballerinas appeared to the adagio from “Swan Lake,” there were audible sighs of delight.

The reopening of the Bolshoi is freighted with political significance; the six-year restoration has turned the clock back to the late 19th century, replacing thousands of Soviet hammer-and-sickle signs with imperial double-headed eagles. More simply, though, it fills a vacuum in a country besotted by art.

A cleaning woman, Olga Kuznetsova, stood outside the theater in the embrace of her husband, a chauffeur. The two were swaying to the music, and when she heard “Swan Lake” she looked as if she was going to cry.

“I had problems at work today,” she said. “Then I thought — I can go to the Bolshoi.”

The restoration has been dogged by delays, scandals, firings and resignations and huge cost overruns. Two years into the process, officials said they discovered that the oak pilings that made up the building’s foundation had weakened so badly that they had to be removed by hand, in pieces; workers joked that the building was probably being held up by its electrical wiring.

In September, prosecutors opened a criminal investigation for possible embezzlement, saying federal officials had paid one contractor three times for the same work. Russia’s accounting chamber has said the final cost of the project — $760 million, according to the Ministry of Culture — is 16 times the original estimate.
1104 2011-10-29 In 2007, Mr. Knight published a history of the Five Percenters, who were organized in Harlem about 1964. They took their name from the Nation of Islam teaching that 5 percent of the people are “poor righteous teachers” who have to educate the oppressed masses. In “The Five Percenters: Islam, Hip-Hop and the Gods of New York,” Mr. Knight argued that the group’s reputation for criminality was wildly exaggerated.

Nevertheless, orthodox Muslims resent the connection in some people’s minds between mainstream Islam and the Five Percenters, whose theology they consider heresy. And the Five Percenters no longer profess any connection to mainstream Islam.

Still, what interests non-Muslims is not theological precision but the Five Percenters’ unique allure. The sect’s lingo, its abstruse numerology and its eccentric formulation of racial pride — in which black men are considered “gods,” black women “earths” — have been widely influential in hip-hop music, and therefore beyond black America.

In his earlier book about the group, Mr. Knight reclaimed the Five Percenters’ deep history, back to the founder, Clarence 13X Smith, who called himself Allah. He also broke down the Five Percenters’ messages in the lyrics of artists like Wu-Tang Clan, Busta Rhymes and 50 Cent (who took his name from another 50 Cent, a street hustler and Five Percenter murdered in 1987).

For millions of rap fans analyzing those bizarre lyrics by the Wu-Tang Clan rapper RZA, or musing on the origins of the street affirmation “Word,” or even wondering why Erykah Badu named her son Seven, here at last were some answers.

But in offering his sympathetic exploration of the Five Percenters, Mr. Knight never suggested he was one of them. He was a Sunni Muslim, studying an alien group. In the new book, however, things have changed.

Mr. Knight now writes that his immersion in the world of Five Percenters made him, in a sense, an insider. He does not accept the literal truth of all their claims (and he is skeptical that all Five Percenters do). But he is no longer an outsider looking in.

“While my encounter with the Five Percenters influenced my thinking about race and religion,” Mr. Knight writes, “something else happened, something deeper than intellectual positions.” He found himself contemplating these issues “in Five Percenter terms, using Five Percenter language.”

“It became completely natural for me to reflect on the day’s date using Supreme Mathematics,” the Fiver Percenter system in which numbers represent spiritual concepts (one is knowledge, two wisdom, and so forth).

Sometimes Mr. Knight even “experienced a deeper emotional resonance with narratives of the former Clarence 13X and his teen gods than with those of the Prophet Muhammad and his companions.”

Mr. Knight does not live as a Five Percenter. Some would say he barely lives as a Muslim. In his two years at Harvard, where in May he finished a master’s degree, he “went to a mosque maybe twice,” he told me this week. But that seeming tension only points to a principal argument of “Why I Am a Five Percenter,” that religious identity is not necessarily about belief, or even about culture.

Scholars spend a lot of time volleying the tennis ball of what “religion” is; for Mr. Knight, it is a way of seeing the world. He came to Islam not because of specific truth-claims about God, but because “those Arabic prayers gave me the right soap to wash myself clean of America, my father, my stepfather, white Jesus, and all of the ignorant small-town” classmates at his Catholic high school.

Now, he has a newer language: less Muslim, more Five Percenter. By the time he finished his first book on the Five Percenters, Harlem was “more relatable” to his world “than the unimaginable setting of premodern Arabia. To stand in front of the Hotel Theresa,” where Allah, the first Five Percenter, was arrested in 1965, “or visit Marcus Garvey Park, where Allah held his first parliament, would affect me as no less than a pilgrimage.”

In his book’s introduction, Mr. Knight offers a bit of advice to other scholars doing fieldwork: “Keep your guard up and keep your distance. You spend that much time with a culture and fail to check yourself, you’ll fall in love and become your subject.”

How will you know when you have gotten too close to your subject? For Mr. Knight, there were clear signs. In 2008, he made the traditional pilgrimage to Mecca. “Here I am,” he told me, “a quasi-orthodox Muslim in Mecca, walking around the Kaaba” — the shrine Muslims around the world face during prayers — “and I am interpreting it through mathematics, the lessons, Wu-Tang lyrics. I had to make sense of that.”
1105 2011-10-29 Typically shown with subtitles and known for characters with wide glimmering eyes and elongated bodies, anime stands at the center of Hulu’s strategy to differentiate itself from TV watched the old-fashioned way. “Networks might be happy to get a show that 20 million people kind of like,” said Andy Forssell, Hulu’s senior vice president for content. “We’re more interested in finding a show that a million people love to death.”

In Japan, anime varies from children’s programming to sports, romantic comedies and even public service announcements and pornography. The shows that resonate in the United States tend to be action-driven, with lots of violence, as well as sexually provocative shows. The small but avid audience is made up of mostly male viewers aged 18 to 34. Distributors said comedies, sports shows and anything aimed at women tend to not work.

Hulu has 9,500 episodes of anime titles. Earlier this month it signed a deal with the anime distribution company FUNimation Entertainment to show five new subtitled series within 48 hours of their original broadcast in Japan. Netflix offers 4,000 anime episodes for streaming.

This month four of the top 40 titles on Hulu and its subscription service, Hulu Plus, are anime. “Naruto: Shippuden,” a continuation of the popular “Naruto,” which shows the young ninja leave his village to train, is the sixth most popular series on Hulu Plus, competing with episodes of “Family Guy” on Fox and “The Office” on NBC.

Hulu is expanding its offering of foreign shows with similarly devoted audiences. In May, a Hulu executive flew to Seoul to attend a presentation by South Korean broadcasters and producers. Held at the luxurious Shilla Hotel, the lecture, titled “The Potential for Korean Drama in the U.S. Market,” reinforced Hulu’s push into Korean dramas. It now offers 90 different shows.

They appeal largely to non-Korean viewers who listen to Korean pop music or love soapy dramas, according to Suk Park, co-founder of DramaFever.com, a Web site that streams Korean dramas in North America and struck the deal with Hulu. The company is seeking other trendy Asian programs to bring to the United States. (Hulu, coincidentally, has Chinese roots. The company was named after the Mandarin words that roughly translate to the “holder of precious things” and “interactive recording.”)

This month, Hulu, a joint venture of the NBCUniversal division of the Comcast Corporation, News Corporation, Walt Disney and Providence Equity Partners, announced a deal to carry Spanish-language telenovelas and other shows from Univision, the most-watched Spanish-language network in the United States.

Internet streaming services have upended the business model for Japanese animation. A decade ago when the genre exploded among the young comic book set in the United States, viewers mostly watched pirated versions. These online videos posted on fan Web sites with sloppy English subtitles left the Japanese anime industry powerless to profit from even the most popular titles overseas.

Officially dubbed versions of anime often took a year or more to come out on DVDs or on cable in the United States, leaving an opening for piracy. “There’s a hard-core fan group that wants to see this as soon as possible,” said Gen Fukunaga, chief executive of FUNimation. “We were missing that entire market by making them wait the 18-month lag for dubbing.”

Anime also had to abide by United States decency standards if it ran on television, avoiding things like alcohol, cigarettes and sexually provocative content.

By contrast, Hulu can offer anime in its raciest and rawest form, though the company said it included ratings on episodes and avoided acquiring anything too sexual. “We thought we can be a clean, well-lit place for anime, a legal alternative to piracy,” Mr. Forssell said.

Advertising revenue from Hulu amounts to a tiny portion of FUNimation’s profits, which mostly come from DVD sales. But “we can control the brand so it doesn’t get tainted,” Mr. Fukunaga said. After “Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood,” about alchemist brothers who lose their bodies trying to raise their mother from the dead, ran on Hulu with subtitles, FUNimation produced a cleaned up, dubbed version for Turner Broadcasting’s Adult Swim.

Often based on Japanese comic books called manga, anime has existed in the United States since at least 1963 when “Astro Boy” became a hit among boys who gravitated to its grittier storylines over the usual Looney Tunes gags. In the late 1990s, Pokémon entered the pop culture pantheon, with the Halloween costumes and children’s backpacks to prove it. In 2003, the anime “Spirited Away” won an Oscar for best animated film.

Anime-related DVD sales, movies and character goods accounted for about $2.74 billion in the United States in 2009, down from a peak of $4.84 billion in 2003, according to the latest study released by the Japan External Trade Organization, a division of the Japanese government.

Hulu’s strategy mirrors the approach of fledgling pay-cable channels in the 1990s and early 2000s. Networks like IFC, Spike, G4 and Starz all featured artsy Japanese animation to try to attract a young, hip audience. Because anime was so readily available free online, these cable networks paid tiny licensing fees.

“We’re not interested in paying a lot of money for anime because that targeted audience has so many different ways to see it before it goes on our air,” said Mike Lazzo, senior vice president for programming and production at Adult Swim. That pricing structure has persisted, making it cheap for Netflix, Hulu and others to get online rights.

“Every once in a while we look and say we could gain a rating point here and there, but we’d rather be more interesting and edgy from a programming standpoint, and that means anime,” Mr. Lazzo said.

Hulu wants to strike a balance between a lineup of prime-time shows like Fox’s sitcom “New Girl” and shows that appeal to users with more alternative tastes.

“The mission statement we’ve stayed true to is to provide premium content and make it easy for viewers to find,” Mr. Forssell said. “But premium content is in the eye of the beholder.”
1106 2011-10-29 Chevron said on Friday that its quarterly earnings more than doubled, beating Wall Street forecasts, but the oil company, America’s second-largest, again lowered expectations for full-year output.

The company’s profit rose to $7.8 billion, or $3.92 a share, from $3.8 billion, or $1.87 a share, a year earlier.

The average analyst estimate was $3.48 a share, according to Thomson Reuters, though the company had said this month that it would report a profit similar to the $7.7 billion it earned in the second quarter.

Shares of Chevron closed 0.6 percent higher at $109.64 on Friday, within sight of their record high of $110, hit on Thursday. Third-quarter sales rose 26 percent to $61.26 billion, while its oil and gas output fell to 2.6 million barrels of oil equivalent per day from 2.74 million a year ago.

Getting production to grow remains a nagging problem for all the big oil companies. Chevron expects an increase of 100,000 to 150,000 barrels per day in the fourth quarter, driven by production in Thailand and the Gulf of Mexico from projects that are either new, upgraded or repaired.

The profit growth was driven by oil prices. Benchmark Brent crude averaged $112 per barrel in the quarter, up from $77 last year.
1107 2011-10-29 Whirlpool said on Friday that it planned to cut 5,000 jobs, about 10 percent of its work force in North America and Europe, because of soft demand and higher costs for materials.

The company, the world’s biggest appliance maker, also on Friday cut its 2011 earnings outlook drastically and reported third-quarter results that missed expectations, hurt by higher costs and a slowdown in emerging markets.

The company, whose brands include Maytag and KitchenAid, has been squeezed by weak American demand since the recession and by rising costs for materials. Because of Whirlpool’s size, its performance can signal whether consumers are comfortable spending on big-ticket items.

To offset slowing North American sales, Whirlpool has turned to emerging markets. But the company said Friday that sales had slowed there, too.

The Whirlpool jobs to be cut are mostly in North America and Europe. They include 1,200 salaried positions and the closing of the company’s Fort Smith, Ark., plant.
1108 2011-10-29 Those who saw the first two installments of Robert Lepage’s production of Wagner’s “Ring” cycle for the Metropolitan Opera last season pretty much knew what to expect when “Siegfried,” Part 3 of 4, opened on Thursday night. So let me momentarily put off reporting on the production and get to the best news: the impressive singing of the cast over all and the remarkable playing of the Met orchestra under the company’s principal conductor, Fabio Luisi.

The role of Siegfried is almost impossible to sing. The tenor Ben Heppner was originally scheduled to take it on for this production but withdrew in February. Gary Lehman, a vocally sturdy tenor, was brought in to take Mr. Heppner’s place but withdrew early last week, citing illness.

The Met rushed in the Texas-born tenor Jay Hunter Morris, who sang the title role of “Siegfried” this summer in a new production of the “Ring” at the San Francisco Opera and gave a creditable account. At the Met on Thursday he was better still, a quite decent Siegfried, which is a real achievement.

The opera is about the maturing of a young, fearless and somewhat witless demigod. The sheer length of the role is just one of its challenges. The part involves a great deal of upper-range, impetuous, heroic singing. Though Mr. Morris, who looked strong and youthful, does not have a big voice, he made up in energy what he lacked in power. His singing was admirably clean and honest. And he relished the feisty exchanges with Mime (the dynamic tenor Gerhard Siegel), the calculating, dangerous yet endearingly hapless dwarf who has raised the orphaned Siegfried.

Mr. Morris grabbed every chance to bend a phrase lyrically, as when, alone in the woods, Siegfried wonders what his mother was like and who his father was. Many ambitious tenors have blown out their voices by taking on Siegfried, but Mr. Morris has found his own vocal way with the role and seems to know what he is doing.

The bass-baritone Bryn Terfel was the Wanderer, which is what the disconsolate Wotan has taken to calling himself as he roams the lands, fatalistically anticipating the demise of the gods. Whether ranting or brooding, Mr. Terfel sang with chilling intensity and power. If the visceral emotion of the moment turns his sound raw at times, so be it.
1109 2011-10-29 Shortly after 1 p.m., when the doors of New York City's first casino, next to the Aqueduct racetrack in Queens, opened to the public, Kim Franklin, 45, from East New York, Brooklyn, brushed past a security guard, extended both arms to ensure that ...
1110 2011-10-29 Carl Richards is a certified financial planner in Park City, Utah. His sketches are archived here on the Bucks blog and on his personal Web site, BehaviorGap.com.     In its most simplistic form, financial planning is the process of charting a cou...
1111 2011-10-29 It appears that investors are flocking to Groupon's forthcoming initial public offering like customers to one of the daily deal giant's coupons. The company is considering raising the price of its shares above its current expected range of $16 to ...
1112 2011-10-29 At a time when many museums in the United States and Europe have made cuts in the face of weakened endowments and dwindling public subsidies, the Prado in Madrid announced Thursday that it planned to increase its hours to remain open seven days a ...
1113 2011-10-29 SISSELMAN--Frederick, on October 27, 2011. Beloved husband of the late Laura. Devoted father and father-in-law of Donna Faye and Derrick Cephas, Peggy and the late Jeffrey Phillip Sisselman. Adored and devoted grandfather of Amanda, Stephen, Daisy...
1114 2011-10-29 Facing pressure to explain apparent irregularities with his campaign fund-raising practices, John C. Liu, the New York City comptroller, said Friday that he had hired a former state attorney general to review his books.     Mr. Liu, whose elected ...
1115 2011-10-30 Subscribers to the magazine received a letter informing them that this month's issue would count as two issues toward their annual subscription....
1116 2011-10-30 A campaign by Pepperidge Farm uses ZipList to allow users who click on ads promoting a new line of rolls to add them to an online shopping list....
1117 2011-10-30 A campaign by Pepperidge Farm uses ZipList to allow users who click on ads promoting a new line of rolls to add them to an online shopping list....
1118 2011-10-30 The Obama adviser David Plouffe takes aim at what he calls Mitt Romney's convenient positioning on key issues....
1119 2011-10-30 The Obama adviser David Plouffe takes aim at what he calls Mitt Romney's convenient positioning on key issues....
1120 2011-10-30 Rick Perry says he has the skills to debate President Obama, despite concerns about his debate performances....
1121 2011-10-30 Rick Perry says he has the skills to debate President Obama, despite concerns about his debate performances....
1122 2011-10-30 The couple began dating in October 2006, nine months after they first met outside the stage door of the Merriam Theater in Philadelphia, where Mr. Reiser had gone to see a mutual friend perform in the national tour of “Hairspray,” in which Ms. Levy was playing Penny Pingleton. At the time, both were living in New York, though Ms. Levy was on tour.

“We literally met for two minutes, I shook his hand and thought he was really handsome and there were sparks,” Ms. Levy recalled. “Both of us had been told about the other. It was one of those heightened meetings where both people are getting set up, but you only have a few minutes to chat.”

Ms. Levy returned from the “Hairspray” tour in May 2006, and she and Mr. Reiser began dating five months later. Then in December 2007, she went to Los Angeles to appear in “Wicked” at the Pantages Theater.

“That was the beginning of our long-distance thing,” Mr. Reiser said.

Ms. Levy was still in Los Angeles when Mr. Reiser left for Denver to join the national tour of “Mamma Mia!,” in which he was a member of the ensemble cast.

“It was a crazy time, but it was exciting because we were together and getting these great acting opportunities,” Ms. Levy said. “Even though it was hard to be apart, we were apart for great reasons.”

Despite whatever distance came between them, Ms. Levy and Mr. Reiser continued their relationship, coordinating days off at least once a month to visit each other.

In March 2010, when “Hair” was being transferred from Broadway to London, Ms. Levy and Mr. Reiser decided to live together — there.

“We had been apart, living on the road for so long and putting so much work into seeing each other that we wanted to finally shorten that distance,” Mr. Reiser said. “When Caissie got her opportunity, we figured it was a once-in-a-lifetime chance, and we weren’t going to pass it up for anything.” VINCENT M. MALLOZZI
1123 2011-10-30 Senator Jim Webb, Democrat of Virginia, has a smart proposal to create a bipartisan commission to review the nation’s troubled criminal justice system and offer recommendations for reform. The National Criminal Justice Commission Act would be a valuable first step toward reducing crime as well as punishment. Unfortunately, Senate Republicans derailed the bill recently, with some falsely claiming that it would encroach on states’ rights.

As a means of controlling crime, America’s prisons are notoriously inefficient and only minimally effective, often creating hardened criminals out of first-time offenders. The United States has 5 percent of the world’s population, yet 25 percent of the world’s prisoners. In the past generation, the imprisonment rate per capita in this country has multiplied by five. There are 2.3 million Americans in prisons and jails. Spending on prisons has reached $77 billion a year.

While crime has gone down notably, just 10 to 25 percent of the decline can be credited to the increase in imprisonment. The rest is from the waning of the crack epidemic, the aging of the baby boomers and other factors.

Even as the prison population has grown, less than half of the inmates are serving time for violent crimes. Far too often, prison has become a warehouse for people with drug or alcohol addiction. More than half of the population has some form of mental illness. Without proper addiction and psychiatric treatment, many end up back in prison soon after their release.

The incarceration rate has had a devastating effect on minority communities. African-Americans, who make up one-eighth of the population, now make up about 40 percent of those in prison. African-American men have a one-in-three chance of spending a year or more in prison. The trend affects whole communities, depressing earnings and increasing recidivism.

There are, however, ways to end this cycle of incarceration. This could be done by reducing sentences for nonviolent offenses, ending mandatory minimum sentences and cleaning up drug markets nationally. Reasonable senators should support the bipartisan commission that Senator Webb is calling for, which would cost only $5 million and could help bring about compelling reforms.
1124 2011-10-30 That belief may soon be tested. As revolts continue in Syria, their leaderless quality — so useful in deterring crackdowns by the secret police — has become a liability. Organizers in and out of the country are now struggling to shape a set of shared political goals, and intellectual coherence and leadership is increasingly seen as important in that process. “No one wants to be accused of hijacking the revolution,” says Sadik Jalal al-Azm, a Syrian philosopher and advocate of greater civic freedoms. “This excessive fear is becoming a hindrance.”

To some extent, the intellectual silence of the current uprising is a deliberate response to the hollow revolutionary rhetoric of previous generations. The Arab nationalist movement began in the 1930s and ’40s with idealistic young men who hoped to lead the region out of its colonial past, backwardness and tribalism. The Syrian political philosopher Michel Aflaq and other young writers and activists found inspiration in 19th-century German theories of nationalism, and envisioned their Baath Party as an instrument for modernization and economic justice.

But the party and its misty ideas were soon hijacked and distilled into slogans by military officers in Syria and Iraq, whose “revolutionary” leadership was really just the old tribalism and autocracy in a different guise. In Egypt too, Arab socialism soon became little more than a pretext for dictatorship and reckless policies at home and abroad. Arab nationalism reached its zenith — or its nadir — in Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, who saw himself as a godlike intellectual, publishing his own fiction and imposing his delusional Third Universal Theory on Libya’s hapless people. Everything in Colonel Qaddafi’s Libya was styled “revolutionary.” When the rebels overthrew his government this year, they found it difficult to separate the names of their own revolutionary councils from the ones they were overthrowing.

The protesters who led the Arab Spring had grown tired of the stale internationalist rhetoric of their forebears, which had achieved little for the Palestinians and had deepened the divisions among Arab states rather than unifying them. They wanted to focus instead on the failures of their own societies. “Previously, everything was reduced to the exterior: are you pro- or anti-American, what is the role of Israel, and so on,” says Hazem Saghieh, the political editor of the London-based Arab newspaper Al Hayat. “This revolution is entirely different.”

The shift in emphasis to civil rights and democracy at home did not come out of the blue. Some Arab intellectuals began speaking this language long ago, including Mr. Azm, the Syrian philosopher, who after the humiliation of the 1967 war with Israel published a groundbreaking book called “Self-Criticism After the Defeat.” Others followed suit gradually, and during the short-lived “Damascus Spring” a decade ago, Syrian intellectuals signed the Declaration of the 99, a call for greater civil rights and openness. Many were jailed afterward. The bravery and persistence of these intellectuals — and others like them in Egypt — may have quietly prepared the ground for the uprisings this year.

But in recent years their voices often went unheard, because their secular language had little resonance in societies where political Islam was becoming a dominant force. Nor did Islamic reformers fare much better when they tried to cast their political critique in religious terms. The Egyptian scholar Hassan Hanafi, for instance, in the 1980s began calling for the creation of an “Islamic Left,” a socialist ideology rooted in religion. He was branded a heretic and had to seek police protection after receiving death threats from jihadists. His work gained an audience in Indonesia, but not in his own country, said Carool Kersten, a lecturer at King’s College London who has written on Islamic reformers.

Not all Arab intellectuals fell into these traps. Alaa al-Aswany, the Egyptian novelist, became a fierce critic of the government of Hosni Mubarak in recent years, protected from arrest by his celebrity. He was among the first writers to speak to the protesting crowds in Tahrir Square in January, and in March, he delivered a punishing performance during a televised debate with Ahmed Shafiq, the prime minister appointed by Mr. Mubarak. The following day Egypt’s ruling military council fired Mr. Shafiq, and many credit Mr. Aswany with the achievement.

But Mr. Aswany made clear from the first that his only real goal was to serve as a bullhorn for the demands of the protesters in Tahrir Square. He offered no ideas of his own.

Inevitably, and perhaps unfairly, the current Arab tumult has been compared with the uprising against Communism in Eastern Europe in 1989, the last great social upheaval of comparable scale. Intellectuals played a much more prominent role in those movements. In Poland, for instance, “the unification of intellectuals and labor unions was really important,” said Anne Applebaum, a columnist and the author of an authoritative book on the Soviet gulags. “They helped shape the movement and ran its publications. They facilitated conversations between various workers’ groups. They functioned like the Facebook page of their era.”

The dissident Czech playwright Vaclav Havel wrote an essay, “The Power of the Powerless,” that became a kind of blueprint for how to survive with dignity in a totalitarian country, and later emerged as a champion of his country’s Velvet Revolution.

It may be that the connecting role these figures played is less needed today. It may also be that the ideological platforms of earlier revolutions are obsolete, given the speed of communications and the churn of new perspectives. “It is too fluid, too fast-moving, too complex,” says Peter Harling, a senior analyst with the International Crisis Group. “It is too difficult to come up with a paradigm. People are looking for short pieces that illuminate some aspect of what they’re going through, not grand theories.”

Still, Mr. Harling added, among Syrian intellectuals, “none of them has articulated any kind of forward-looking political platform,” and that failure has contributed to anxieties about the protest movement’s direction.

To the extent that any ideas have arisen from the Arab Spring, they relate to the “Turkish model” — the often-heard hope that Turkey’s blend of mildly Islamist ideology and democratic governance can inspire similar success in Arab lands. But this analogy is a facile one, and may well yield disappointment in the months and years to come.

Turkey’s experience is hard to replicate, in part because the country has had the kind of thoroughgoing revolution against tradition that Arab intellectuals of the 20th century only talked about. Starting in the early 1920s, Turkey’s great autocrat, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, overhauled the country’s education system, bringing over the American reformer John Dewey to advise him. He abolished the caliphate and gutted the country’s legal system, instituting a strict separation of church and state. The first elections took place in 1946, and only after decades of struggle (and several coups d’état) did Turkey start earning applause for its democratic ways.

Without that punishing preparation, the Arab world’s new revolutionaries may end up repeating history, even if they do study it. Last week, amid the euphoria over Colonel Qaddafi’s death, a few skeptical voices could be heard in the din of triumphant Internet messages in Arabic.

“Let the killing of Qaddafi be a lesson to the revolutionaries as much as to the rulers,” one Arab Twitter user wrote. “And let revolutionaries everywhere remember that Qaddafi came to power by making his own revolution 40 years ago.”
1125 2011-10-30 Re “How Mr. Volcker Would Fix It,” Fair Game, Oct. 23), in which Gretchen Morgenson quoted Paul A. Volcker as criticizing money market mutual funds because they aren’t subject to bank-style regulation:

Mr. Volcker’s comments about money market funds read like another attempt to use the financial crisis — a crisis rooted in banks and banking regulation — to deprive the economy of the enormous benefits that these funds bring investors, businesses, and governments.

Money market funds are subject to tight risk-limiting regulations. They invest in diversified portfolios of short-term, highly liquid securities. They are required to ensure that the securities they own pose minimal credit risk. And they disclose every security they own to the public every month.

Contrary to your assertion that “few in Washington seem willing to discuss” reform of money market funds, our industry led the way on comprehensive regulations that tightened credit, maturity, liquidity and disclosure standards. We continue to work with the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulators on measures to make money market funds more resilient without undermining their critical role in the economy. Paul Schott Stevens

The writer is president and chief executive of the Investment Company Institute, the trade association for mutual funds, including money market funds.
1126 2011-10-30 SHANGHAI — China reshuffled the leadership of three of its financial regulatory agencies on Saturday, one of the first steps in what is expected to be a major leadership change at the top of the Communist Party next year.

With a new generation of leaders set to take control of the country in 2012, the Communist Party was widely expected to replace its top banking and financial regulators as several of them neared retirement age.

Several of those changes, which were announced Saturday, come at a time of strong economic growth in China but continuing worries about soaring inflation, a depressed stock market and concerns that heavy lending by China’s biggest banks following the 2008 financial crisis is likely to lead to a huge number of nonperforming loans over the next three to five years.

To strengthen its controls, the Communist Party on Saturday appointed Shang Fulin, 60, as the new chairman of the powerful China Banking Regulatory Commission, according to the state-run Xinhua news agency.

Mr. Shang had been the head of the China Securities Regulatory Commission.

He replaced Liu Mingkang, 65, who had served as the nation’s top banking regulator since March 2003. He had reached retirement age.

Guo Shuqing, chairman of the China Construction Bank — one of China’s four big state-owned banks — was named to replace Mr. Shang as the nation’s top securities regulator.
1127 2011-10-30 Steven Johnson’s essay “I Was an Under-Age Semiotician” (Oct. 16) paints an all-too-familiar portrait of semiotics as jargon-laden and ridiculous. But there’s one saving grace: He and several peers apparently found a “secret layer of meaning” and developed “conceptual antennas” sufficient enough to secure “influential careers in the media and the creative arts.”

Characterizing the practice of semiotics in this way — as obtuse but also as a way for the elite to get further ahead — is depressingly ironic and wrongheaded. Dating back to Roland Barthes and his writings on myth, semiotics at its best is an instrument against power, a way to reveal how mainstream media narratives normalize and perpetuate an unhealthy, unjust status quo.

I’ve been using a streamlined, almost jargon-free version of semiotics in my undergraduate Methods of Media Criticism class for more than a decade. Whether the subject is a commercial for the New York Stock Exchange, a magazine feature on the “world’s most beautiful people,” vigilante action movies, or television programs in which the poor are invisible, running from the police or denying paternity to talk show hosts — semiotics and other methods of analysis empower my students to see the hegemonic bill of goods their culture regularly sells them. And they understand it all just fine.Marco Calavita

Rohnert Park, Calif.

The writer is an associate professor of communication studies at Sonoma State University.

In his essay Steven Johnson has fun (as he has in the past) with the prose style he developed in the semiotics program at Brown University. (He quotes from a paper he wrote “at the age of 19”: “The predicament of any tropological analysis of narrative always lies in its own effaced and circuitous recourse to a metaphoric mode of apprehending its object. . . . ”) As a founder of the program, I remember Johnson, and he did write that way. But some semioticians wrote with clarity — Tzvetan Todorov and Umberto Eco, for example — and I rather think I did so myself. But students take what they want, or what they need at the time, and the good ones find ways to use or abuse what they learned — or both.Robert Scholes

Barrington, R.I.

The writer is a research professor of modern culture and media at Brown University.
1128 2011-10-30 Even though 32 houses have sold this year in the range of $4 million to $6 million, plenty more await buyers.

“The fact is, in this price range there are currently 61 houses on the market in Greenwich,” Mr. Bland said. “So you have to somehow figure out a way to attract attention.”

An attention-grabber this big is akin to a child’s temper tantrum, “full throttle, fists and feet,” Monica Webster, a sales associate with Coldwell Banker, said jokingly. Calling the approach a telling sign of the rough market, she compared it to a grander version of the catered lunches that she uses to increase agent traffic at her open houses. Free food alone is enough to triple her traffic.

“Would I be more likely to show a house with a bonus like that? Absolutely,” Ms. Webster said. “Why wouldn’t I? You try not to be biased, but ... yeah.”

Offerings of cash bonuses to real estate agents are perfectly legal in Connecticut, as are offerings of extravagant gifts like cars and exotic vacations. State law simply stipulates that gifts must be given to the brokerage, not individual agents, who are prohibited from working out side deals on property sales.

But from a buyer’s perspective, cash incentives to agents are admittedly not as straightforward as, say, a price cut or an offer to pay closing costs, said Eugene Marconi, the general counsel for the Connecticut Association of Realtors. He advises buyers’ agents to disclose such incentives to their clients, lest they later be accused of having steered them toward a particular property.

Disclosure of a cash bonus offering is also material to buyers’ interests. A big incentive makes a statement about the sellers’ confidence, and suggests that the price is more negotiable than the buyer might have thought, Mr. Marconi added. “The buyer may bargain harder on purchase price once he knows what the real price is,” he said.

In terms of generating more showings, bonuses are effective only if the property in question is priced right, Ms. Ward said, particularly these days, when “buyers are so oriented on price.” She has been on both the giving and receiving ends of bonuses.

Buyers’ focus on getting a good deal might cause some to question whether a big bonus comes at their expense. If a buyer were to suggest that the $100,000 incentive should instead have taken the form of a price cut, Ms. Ward added, then “a good broker might say, ‘I’ll split it with you.’ ”

Some agents avoid such incentives altogether. John Herman, the owner of the Buyer’s Representative real estate company, which works exclusively with buyers, said his policy was to credit back to his client any incentive beyond what amounted to a 3 percent commission.

The volume of single-family home sales in Greenwich was up some 13 percent through September, versus the first nine months of last year, but the median sale price remained flat, at $1.695 million, according to a market report produced by Shore and Country Properties.

The biggest spike in activity occurred in the $5 million to $7 million range. Thirty-five homes sold in that range, almost twice as many as last year.

The owners of 6 Wyckham Hill wanted to use a cash incentive to turn some of that business their way, having previously used the strategy to sell a property in Palm Beach, Fla., Mr. Bland said.

Built in 1994, their 20-room stone colonial was recently renovated. It has six bedrooms, seven baths, a two-and-a-half-story atrium, a French country kitchen, a cherry-paneled library and an in-ground pool. The house is on four acres on a cul-de-sac. Cate Keeney is the listing agent.

The Thanksgiving deadline on the bonus offer is intended to “telescope all the interest,” Mr. Bland said. “The whole idea is to energize and raise the level of exposure.”

The incentive might also be a way of inspiring agents to play down what Ms. Ward described as the property’s only real drawback: proximity to the Merritt Parkway.

But Mr. Bland insisted that the location wasn’t necessarily a hindrance. “One man’s ceiling is another man’s floor,” he said. “Some people like that area because it’s more country and open.”

And, he reasoned, “if you live near the Merritt, you can get off it quickly.”
1129 2011-10-30 In Metropolitan's cover article last week, ''Lunch, Landfills and What I Tossed,'' Mireya Navarro explored the limits of recycling in New York City. Readers wrote to NYTimes.com with a variety of solutions. They also debated Ginia Bellafante's Big...
1130 2011-10-30 To the Editor:     Steven Johnson's essay ''I Was an Under-Age Semiotician'' (Oct. 16) paints an all-too-familiar portrait of semiotics as jargon-laden and ridiculous. But there's one saving grace: He and several peers apparently found a ''secret ...
1131 2011-10-30 SISSELMAN--Frederick, on October 27, 2011. Beloved husband of the late Laura. Devoted father and father-in-law of Donna Faye and Derrick Cephas, Peggy and the late Jeffrey Phillip Sisselman. Adored and devoted grandfather of Amanda, Stephen, Daisy...
1132 2011-10-31 As investors sensed trouble, financial companies with a perceived exposure to the brokerage suffered in the markets....
1133 2011-10-31 As investors sensed trouble, financial companies with a perceived exposure to the brokerage suffered in the markets....
1134 2011-10-31 Regulators have discovered that hundreds of millions of dollars in customer money have gone missing from MF Global, the brokerage firm run by Jon S. Corzine....
1135 2011-10-31 Federal regulators have discovered that hundreds of millions of dollars in customer money has gone missing from MF Global in recent days, prompting an investigation into the company's operations....
1136 2011-10-31 Plans for an Open Pit Mine Meet Resistance in Bulgaria
1137 2011-10-31 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
1138 2011-10-31 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
1139 2011-10-31 Changing priorities have left investment banks, hedge funds and even nonfinancial companies in a holding pattern about the compliance and costs of new regulation....
1140 2011-10-31 Changing priorities have left investment banks, hedge funds and even nonfinancial companies in a holding pattern about the compliance and costs of new regulation....
1141 2011-10-31 Documents suggest that his campaign accepted tens of thousands of dollars in goods and services from a nonprofit organization, a serious violation of tax and election law....
1142 2011-10-31 Documents suggest that his campaign accepted tens of thousands of dollars in goods and services from a nonprofit organization, a serious violation of tax and election law....
1143 2011-10-31 ON Nov. 8, Mississippi voters will be asked to decide on a proposed amendment to the state constitution, which would define as a person “every human being from the moment of fertilization, cloning, or the functional equivalent thereof.”

Most of the debate on this proposal has fallen on traditional lines. In our charged political climate, that is understandable, but it is also profoundly misleading. Whether one supports abortion rights or not, there are serious issues with this amendment — not because of the principles it seeks to represent, but because, as a legal matter, it is profoundly ambiguous.

First, what does “fertilization” mean? As embryologists recognize, fertilization is a process, a continuum, rather than a fixed point. The term “fertilization” — which is sometimes considered synonymous with “conception” — could mean at least four different things: penetration of the egg by a sperm, assembly of the new embryonic genome, successful activation of that genome, and implantation of the embryo in the uterus. The first occurs immediately; the last occurs approximately two weeks after insemination (or, in the case of embryos created through in vitro fertilization that do not get implanted, never). Thus, on some reasonable readings of the amendment, certain forms of birth control, stem cell derivation and the destruction of embryos created through in vitro fertilization would seem impermissible, while on other equally reasonable readings they are not.

Second, the proposed amendment does not clearly indicate what the immediate legal impact would be. Would the amendment be “self-executing” — that is, effectuate a change to Mississippi law on its own — or would it require enabling legislation to set that change in motion?

Under existing doctrine, constitutional provisions or amendments that only set forth “first principles” or “policies” are not treated as self-executing, because they need laws enacted to further the stated principles or policies. In this case it’s not clear whether the amendment would, for example, immediately redefine thousands of references to “human beings” or “persons,” including those in provisions governing criminal homicide, or whether additional legislation would be necessary. Because of this uncertainty, voters considering this amendment cannot tell what actions would and would not immediately be subject to prosecutorial investigation were the amendment to pass.

It is obvious why those who support abortion rights will be uncomfortable with this amendment. But opponents of abortion rights may find that it covers more than they bargained for, including some forms of in vitro fertilization and birth control. Indeed, even opponents of abortion rights who would like nothing more than to give the courts an opportunity to reverse Roe v. Wade may find this amendment a bad vehicle for doing so. Courts frequently read ambiguous language as a strategy to avoid raising serious constitutional questions. By endorsing a ballot initiative that is deeply ambiguous, pro-life constituencies could be inviting courts to read the amendment in a way that sidesteps the very constitutional question they want to force.
1144 2011-10-31 Supporters of Rick Perry's candidacy are flexing their financial muscle in South Carolina, a state critical to Mr. Perry's hopes....
1145 2011-10-31 It could be called the Iron Triangle Cup, a 24-team street soccer tournament pitting the best players from Queens auto shops in a concrete expanse known as Mad Max Stadium....
1146 2011-10-31 It could be called the Iron Triangle Cup, a 24-team street soccer tournament pitting the best players from Queens auto shops in a concrete expanse known as Mad Max Stadium....
1147 2011-10-31 The team of lawyers at Skadden helping to draft MF Global's Chapter 11 filing is familiar with the failed brokerage's assets -- they sold many of them six years ago in Refco's bankruptcy case....
1148 2011-10-31 The team of lawyers at Skadden helping to draft MF Global's Chapter 11 filing is familiar with the failed brokerage's assets -- they sold many of them six years ago in Refco's bankruptcy case....
1149 2011-10-31 The failure of Beacon Power, which received a federal loan guarantee, could add to criticism of the Obama administration's green energy financing....
1150 2011-10-31 The failure of Beacon Power, which received a federal loan guarantee, could add to criticism of the Obama administration's green energy financing....
1151 2011-10-31 In this new column, a look at what women want from the world of beauty right now....
1152 2011-10-31 In this new column, a look at what women want from the world of beauty right now....
1153 2011-10-31 Frank Pizzurro of Brooklyn Denim talks about his product line and the new laser wash process....
1154 2011-10-31 Frank Pizzurro of Brooklyn Denim talks about his product line and the new laser wash process....
1155 2011-10-31 The filing is a humbling blow for the firm's chief executive, Jon S. Corzine, who joined the company after a decade as a United States senator and governor of New Jersey....
1156 2011-10-31 The filing is a humbling blow for the firm's chief executive, Jon S. Corzine, who joined the company after a decade as a United States senator and governor of New Jersey....
1157 2011-10-31 The Federal Reserve Bank of New York suspended doing any business with MF Global on Monday, and several major exchanges followed suit, as trading in MF Global shares was halted pending news about a potential bankruptcy filing and asset sale....
1158 2011-10-31 The Federal Reserve Bank of New York suspended doing any business with MF Global on Monday, and several major exchanges followed suit, as trading in MF Global shares was halted pending news about a potential bankruptcy filing and asset sale....
1159 2011-10-31 A Taiwanese animation studio famous for its fanciful recreations of news events recently found itself competing with CNN. Now the pioneers in news animation want to tackle more serious subjects....
1160 2011-10-31 A Taiwanese animation studio famous for its fanciful recreations of news events recently found itself competing with CNN. Now the pioneers in news animation want to tackle more serious subjects....
1161 2011-10-31 The India press debated R.K. Gupta’s fall from grace....
1162 2011-10-31 The Indian media debates R.K. Gupta's fall from grace....
1163 2011-10-31 Herman Cain acknowledged that he was accused of sexually harassing women while running the National Restaurant Association, but said he was innocent....
1164 2011-10-31 Herman Cain may have to address questions about a report of sexual harassment as he appears at public events in Washington on Monday....
1165 2011-10-31 Plus: Do you work with your spouse? If so, how's it going?...
1166 2011-10-31 Plus: Do you work with your spouse? If so, how's it going?...
1167 2011-10-31 People who provide care to their own families and others deserve better protections from the government, an economist writes....
1168 2011-10-31 People who provide care to their own families and others deserve better protections from the government, an economist writes....
1169 2011-10-31 This is all but officially the third year in a row that a poor pass rush has hindered Bill Belichick's club....
1170 2011-10-31 This is all but officially the third year in a row that a poor pass rush has hindered Bill Belichick's club....
1171 2011-10-31 Use the photo and related article to answer basic news questions.
1172 2011-10-31 Use the photo and related article to answer basic news questions.
1173 2011-10-31 Max Casella plays Jon Stone, the angst-riddled playwright who has set out, apparently, to write as nakedly autobiographical a play as the world has yet seen. It’s called “Laura, Blow Out Your Candles,” in obvious homage to perhaps the American theater’s most memorable memory play. (Exactly what Tennessee Williams has to do with the life of Jon is unclear, although he quotes Blanche DuBois more than once.)

As the play begins, we watch the rehearsal of a scene in which Jon’s alter ego, Tom (David Deblinger), confesses to his shrink (Charles Goforth) that he has, in desperation, taken up a new career: being paid to ejaculate on various objects that clients supply. (Hardly a lucrative sideline, I’d imagine, but never mind.)

The rehearsal is interrupted by the arrival of Claire (Ms. Burstyn), Jon’s domineering mom — she enters reciting a monologue of Lady Macbeth’s — who has decided to return to the stage in a role based on herself, despite the far-from-flattering portrait her son has created. (At one point she is seen preparing for the bloody finale of “Medea,” not exactly a candidate for theater history’s greatest mother.)

But Claire has fewer objections to the play than Esther (Melissa Ross), Jon’s sister, whose particular beef is a scene in which she is depicted, as a young girl, touching her brother’s penis. This contretemps opens up vaguely evoked themes of the morality of an author using his personal life in his work, and how much liberty he has, should he choose to write about family and friends, in revising history.

When the arguments over Jon’s play move from the theater to his living room, the “The Atmosphere of Memory” noodles off on a long tangent in which we learn that Jon spent his entire childhood, it would seem, taping and then transcribing every word the family said. The family begins poring over the piles of notebooks Jon has carefully collected. In searching for the truth they discover evidence of delightful forgotten turning points: Claire’s public announcement, via a bloodstained sheet placed in the window for all to see, that Esther has begun menstruating, and a similar sheet-themed incident involving Jon’s first wet dream.

Virtually all of the characters in the play — or should I say the plays? — are repellent or at least irritating in one way or another, with the minor exceptions of Jon’s girlfriend, Helen (Kelley Curran), who plays the role of Jon’s sister in his play, and Rex (Sidney Williams), an actor who plays the guitar-strumming musical narrator of the play within the play. (In one scene someone calls for this role to be cut, and it probably should have been — from both.)

And while Ms. Burstyn and in particular Mr. Glover are naturally arresting stage presences, sprinkling some inviting glimmers of authentic stage glamour over the proceedings, for the most part the acting is flat, or obvious, or both.

Mr. Katz is clearly a dedicated and informed student of the long history of plays depicting the traumatic domestic atmospheres from which great artists often spring. But the play presents a very facile idea of how an artist’s life is transmuted into art. The general equation implied: agonized, unhappy childhood plus introverted kid with good memory equals literary genius. The problem in “The Atmosphere of Memory” is that we are never convinced that the math has worked out as it should have, resulting in a writer of any talent. Sometimes two plus two does not equal four.

By David Bar Katz; directed by Pam MacKinnon; sets by David Gallo; costumes by Emily Rebholz; lighting by Dans Maree Sheehan; sound by Brendan Connelly; stage manager, C. A. Clark; production manager, Rosie Cruz; technical director, Richard A. Montgomery II; music by Adam Schlesinger; lyrics by Mr. Katz. Presented by the Labyrinth Theater Company, Stephen Adly Guirgis, Mimi O’Donnell and Yul Vázquez, artistic directors; Danny Feldman, managing director. At the Bank Street Theater, 155 Bank Street, West Village; (212) 513-1080; labtheater.org. Through Nov. 13. Running time: 2 hours 30 minutes.
1174 2011-10-31 It’s unfortunate that Jared Bernstein, in his Oct. 24 Op-Ed article, “Small Isn’t Always Beautiful,” played down small businesses’ economic importance while arguing that politicians and advocates are using small businesses as pawns in their political machinations.

Small businesses employ half of all private-sector employees and pay 44 percent of the total American private payroll, according to the Small Business Administration. What’s more, they’ve generated 65 percent of net new jobs over the past 17 years.

Those numbers are nothing to scoff at. Mr. Bernstein is right that politicians and lobbying groups need to stop waving the small business flag for purely political reasons, but he doesn’t need to diminish small businesses’ significant role in our economy to do so. In fact, we should be harnessing their potential as job generators.

Small businesses have the ability to pull us out of the economic doldrums, as they traditionally do in times of financial strife, but they need our full support if they are to succeed.
1175 2011-10-31 Now considered the first of America’s modern atrium-style hotels, the hotel, later renamed the Hyatt Regency Atlanta, inspired many imitators and accelerated Hyatt’s growth. (The Pritzkers took the hotel business private in 1979 and 1982.) In 1979 the family established the Pritzker Architecture Prize, administered by the Hyatt Foundation, to honor work in a field not recognized by the Nobel Prizes.

Many of the Marmon Group’s other companies were gritty manufacturing enterprises that produced little-noticed but profitable products like railroad tank cars, highway equipment, piping, cables and medical devices. Mr. Tucker said that under Mr. Pritzker’s leadership, the Marmon Group’s revenues grew to $7 billion from $3 million.

Mr. Pritzker was the grandson of Nicholas J. Pritzker, who arrived in Chicago from Ukraine in 1881 at the age of 10. Nicholas Pritzker worked at menial jobs, taught himself English, married and had three sons, and eventually earned a law degree. His three sons joined him at the firm Pritzker & Pritzker.

It was Robert Pritzker’s father, Abram, known as A. N., who in 1935 began the family’s practice of placing business assets in trust, for the benefit of Nicholas J. Pritzker’s descendants.

“I turned everything over to my sons,” A. N. Pritzker told The New York Times in 1984. “It cemented the family and made us one. As a result they have had to support me. My net worth is —. ” He formed a zero with his thumb and forefinger.

The family is in fact considered the wealthiest in Chicago, and Robert Pritzker is known for his large donations to local institutions, including the University of Chicago medical school, and his alma mater, the Illinois Institute of Technology. He served on the institute’s board and taught classes there, and at the University of Chicago and Oxford.

In recent years the family drew attention when Mr. Pritzker’s two youngest children, Liesel and Matthew, filed a lawsuit claiming that he had removed assets from trust funds and directed them to other parts of the business.

A settlement led to sales of some valuable Marmon units, including a public offering of Hyatt shares and, in 2008, the acquisition of 60 percent of Marmon by Berkshire Hathaway, Warren E. Buffett’s company. Terms called for Berkshire Hathaway to pay $4.5 billion for the first 60 percent, then buy the rest in stages.

Robert Alan Pritzker was born in Chicago on June 30, 1926. He is survived by his wife, Mayari; five children, James, Linda, Karen, Matthew and Liesel; 10 grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
1176 2011-10-31 “Sometimes they are looking for inspiration, sometimes a specific image — they chat you up, ‘Do you have a certain image?’ ” Mr. Tegg said.

Tattoo artists like to look at the drawings of old pistols, he said. One recent customer asked if any of the books had a picture of “a fruit pie.” Mr. Tegg found one in a book of Victorian-era illustrations, and made a sale.

The experience of browsing this bookstore, which opened in 1986, is thoroughly pre-Internet; you walk down short aisles, stopping to page through images that often come printed in different sizes so they can literally be cut and pasted onto a design. What’s more, the store challenges the idea that the Internet has created a mash-up culture, whether in the sampling of older music in new songs or the combination of two images using Photoshop.

These clip art books, with dozens of examples of plants, pipes or old-fashioned mustaches, show that people were happily doing image searches long before they had the benefit of a search engine. And people were manipulating those images long before they could click and drag them.

Most of the offerings at Dover Bookshop are produced by Dover Publications, an American business based in Mineola, N.Y., that also publishes children’s books, music and science works. Despite the similar names, there is no official connection between the publisher and the bookstore, other than friendly awareness.

Mark Oddie, the bookstore’s owner, said that when he was preparing to open the store he sought out Dover Publications’ founder, Hayward Cirker, who was in London for a book festival. “I asked him, ‘Can I use your name?’ ” Mr. Oddie, who is living in semiretirement near Melbourne, Australia, recalled in a telephone interview. “He said, ‘You can’t make a living selling my books.’ And I said, ‘We’ll see. I have more faith in your books than you do.’ ”

Dover Publications views the store as a boost for business, said Ken Katzman, the company’s vice president for marketing. Dover Publications is owned by a printing company, the Courier Corporation, which is based in Massachusetts and, among other things, prints Gideon Bibles.

The company still puts out new clip art collections, Mr. Katzman said, and has a staff of three who travel to book fairs, museums and estate sales looking for material to supplement the archive first collected by Mr. Cirker and his wife, Blanche, as they traveled the world.

Their home was in the Dover building in Queens, he said, which gave the company its name. Mr. Cirker died in 2000, and the company was sold after his death; Mrs. Cirker is 92.

After 25 years, it appears that Mr. Oddie is coming around to Mr. Cirker’s view about the difficulty of building a successful business around clip art books. He describes the bookstore as a “charitable operation” that barely generates enough business to pay the landlord, the staff and the British distributor.

He said he was hoping that Dover Publications or the distributor would take over the store, which in 2006 had its best year, $1.25 million in sales, though profits have always been small. “It is dearly loved, and it is a famous shop and the most important thing I have done in my life,” he said.

Soon Mr. Oddie will face a difficult choice. In March, he said, he would decide whether to sign a new lease for the store. Hanging over that decision is whether Dover Publications will begin to sell its images directly for downloading online.

The competition from Internet book sales has already made things hard, he said. But the availability of direct downloads from Dover Publications might be the final straw.

According to Mr. Katzman, the plan is to introduce direct downloads “within a year.” He said the company could sell the images individually or somehow bundle them together.

In that sense the Internet would have the last laugh in the world of clip art, not by creating new habits in people but by making it easier to indulge in them.

David Plunkert, an illustrator in Baltimore who has used Dover clip art books since he was a student, noted that Mr. Cirker was not unique in collecting these images.

“Fifty years ago, 75 years ago, 100 years, people kept their obsessions in little boxes and albums,” he said. Dover was among the first to publish them more broadly, and today, because of the Internet, “we are looking at everybody else’s little boxes of treasures,” Mr. Plunkert said.

He added that designers and artists had always looked to cut corners. He quoted the advice of a prominent comic illustrator, Wallace Wood, who died in 1981: “Never draw anything you can copy, never copy anything you can trace, never trace anything you can cut.”
1177 2011-10-31 It was high time the Minnesota Orchestra and its Finnish music director, Osmo Vanska, brought something else to Carnegie Hall. For five concerts in a row in previous visits an ensemble known to be adventurous in Minneapolis played only Beethoven and Sibelius: great composers, to be sure, and in sterling performances, Sibelius in particular being a Vanska specialty. But still.

Not that adventure was in huge supply on Thursday evening. In a month of Tchaikovsky overload at Carnegie, Minnesota added to the heap: a brief obscurity, the “Voyevoda” Overture; and the First Piano Concerto, heard at Carnegie just 16 days earlier in a performance by Daniil Trifonov with Valery Gergiev conducting the Mariinsky Orchestra. (Carnegie used to forestall repetitions of major works within a season, let alone a month.)

The Danish composer Carl Nielsen’s Symphony No. 3 (“Sinfonia Espansiva”) completed the program. Nielsen’s music deserves greater play, though as it happens, Alan Gilbert and the New York Philharmonic have embarked on a symphony cycle and will also perform the “Espansiva” this season, in June at Avery Fisher Hall.

Still, as expected, Nielsen is right up Mr. Vanska’s Nordic alley, and his performance set a high standard. This is music rich in incident, with broad muscular tunes buzzed by flitting ostinatos and often giving way to intricate counterpoint. The third movement and the anthemic finale threaten to break into full-blown fugues a number of times yet prove anything but ponderous or academic.

The full force of Nielsen’s originality comes through in the progression of the second movement, Andante pastorale, from earthy to ethereal. The long weighty pedal point of the opening seems intent on keeping the movement firmly grounded, but midway through, a soprano and baritone give it flight.

The singers function essentially as additional instrumentalists, soaring in vocalise, and Mr. Vanska positioned them behind the orchestra on either side. The baritone, Jeffrey Madison, was initially hard to hear over the strings, but the soprano, Karin Wolverton, projected better and seemed to draw him out.
1178 2011-10-31 COPENHAGEN (AP) — Axel Axgil, whose struggle for gay rights helped make Denmark the first country to legalize same-sex partnerships, died here on Saturday. He was 96.

The cause was complications from a fall, the Danish gay rights group LGBT Danmark said.

In 1948 Mr. Axgil was a founder of that organization, one of the oldest gay rights groups in Europe, originally known as the Association of 1948. He was fired from his job when his role in the organization was made public.

In 1955 Mr. Axgil, then known as Axel Lundahl-Madsen, and his partner, Eigil Eskildsen, with whom he had lived since 1950, were convicted on pornography charges and sentenced to short prison terms for running a gay modeling agency that sold pictures of naked men. While in prison, they melded their first names into the shared surname Axgil as a public show of defiance.

Axel and Eigil Axgil later ran a resort hotel that catered to a predominantly gay clientele.

In 1989, after years of lobbying by the Axgils and other advocates, Denmark became the first country to allow same-sex civil unions when the Danish Parliament passed a law giving homosexuals most of the rights and obligations of marriage, although not the right to adopt a child. (That right was granted last year.) Other countries in Europe soon followed suit.

On Oct. 1, 1989, at City Hall in Copenhagen, Axel and Eigil Axgil were the first of 11 same-sex couples (all male) to exchange vows under the new law.
1179 2011-10-31 After the first season of “Jersey Shore” the John D. Calandra Italian American Institute of Queens College convened a symposium to discuss the re-emergence into the popular culture of the Guido stereotype. But that event focused on whether Guido imagery was positive or negative for Italian-Americans. Scholars here skipped past that question to more poignant ones: Is there such a thing as a stable Italian-American identity? Shouldn’t Italian-Americans be relieved that some of the “Jersey Shore” stars aren’t of Italian heritage at all? The Guido pose, many here agreed, was just another form of drag, a costume available to anyone with the wherewithal and desire to wear it.

As was pointed out several times at this conference, “Jersey Shore” is one of the most reflexive and self-referential shows on television, and its participants among the most self-aware. Take the segment in the season that just concluded in which Pauly D and Vinny Guadagnino dress up as caricatures of themselves — or at least the Season 1, pre-fame versions of themselves. Or the promotional clip in which the men of the show remake the shivering leaf that is Michael Cera into one of them.

“MTV gets this,” insisted Ellie Marshall, a McGill undergraduate with the distinction of having interned for the show’s executive producer, making her the only conference participant with hands-on experience. One of the slides in her presentation was titled “Bodily Discipline: Foucault + Snooki = BFF.” After she showed a clip of Snooki getting arrested on the beach during Season 3 while onlookers gawked at her celebrity misbehavior, Ms. Marshall argued that it was the audience that was being arrested and rendered docile, not Snooki.

Atle Mikkola Kjosen, a graduate student at the University of Western Ontario, suggested that the show upends Marx’s proposition that the optimal worker is a regulated worker, one who’s allowed to rest. “Jersey Shore” labor is 24-hour labor, both on and off camera, and the show improves in proportion to the toll that ruthless schedule takes on the protagonists.

But this is true of many other reality shows, like “Survivor” and “Big Brother” (to say nothing of the day-to-day living of traditional celebrities, always on public display). “Jersey Shore” stars are not traditional laborers, and the show, which claims to be a documentary, does not treat them as such. Of all the MTV docusoaps, it’s actually done the worst job of pretending its stars are still average folks, shepherding them to new locales (Miami and Florence, Italy) both to avoid hometown fame and to take advantage of notoriety.

There were papers on the functions that music and alcohol serve on the show, and the requisite far-fetched comparisons that are in fact not. (“The Jersey Saga: Honor Culture in Medieval Iceland and Modern Seaside,” anyone?)

But there was surprisingly little discussion of the show’s aesthetics or the degree to which the narratives of the show had been manipulated, or distilled, by producers and editors.

A couple of presenters outed themselves as Jersey Shore natives — a bit like claiming the football team of the school you transferred from after freshman year — though none appeared to be presenting themselves as “Jersey Shore” types. Candace Moore, an assistant professor at the University of Michigan who gave one of the keynote addresses (titled “Guidosexuality”), spoke about the homosocial friendship between Vinny and Pauly D, and linked the men of the show’s quest for “stranger sex” to some queer and kink cultures. Then she showed photos of herself from a recent two-week attempt at living the cast’s GTL — gym, tan, laundry — lifestyle, and failing.

Alison Hearn, an associate professor at the University of Western Ontario, gave the day’s first keynote address, discussing labor practices while images of products the cast members have endorsed scrolled on a screen behind her. As she was discoursing on “the branded hybrid person-character” and the downsides of the current neoliberal moment of self-entrepreneurship, from nowhere appeared a cameraman — seemingly from a local news organization — who ran up tight on her from behind, peering in over her shoulder as she spoke. It felt like a parody. Everyone but the cameraman had a good laugh.
1180 2011-10-31 The job board on AdExchanger, which is updated every 45 days, has postings for positions with titles like “Yield Optimization Manager” and “Director of Platform Marketing.” The number of jobs on the board has nearly doubled in the past year, Mr. Ebbert said, to 80 jobs every 45 days from 40.

The digital talent gap is driven in part by the enormous amount of user data that ad tech companies are collecting for agencies and marketers — data that is instrumental in directing ads to consumers and analyzing trends. New hires are needed for a variety of tasks, including writing code, creating digital advertisements, Web site development and statistical analysis.

“The demand has far outstripped the supply,” said Joe Zawadzki, the chief executive of MediaMath, an ad tech company in New York. “The number of things that you need to know is high and the number of people that have grown up knowing it is low.”

Mr. Zawadzki said that as of last week his company had 13 positions open and had gone to job boards, recruiters and even hosted technology-focused meet-ups to find people. In September, the company hired its first senior vice president for human capital to help with recruitment.

On average, Mr. Zawadzki said, it takes two to three months to find the right person — someone with a combination of pure quantitative skills, applied marketing skills and an understanding of how the advertising technology business works. With a limited talent pool, many ad tech firms are after the same people.

“Half my job is maintaining a mental Rolodex of people that are at various places,” Mr. Zawadzki said.

Edwin Lee, 40, is typical of the candidates that many ad tech companies are competing for. Mr. Lee, an economics major at Stanford who has a master’s degree in business administration from the University of Southern California, was hired as an account director at MediaMath in September. He came to the company after leaving a Silicon Valley start-up and began his new job after entertaining a variety of options, including other small start-ups and Google.

“For me it was like, ‘The world’s my oyster here — what do I want to do?’ ” said Mr. Lee, who describes his new job as “helping companies and clients make sense of something they don’t really understand and they hear a lot about.”

The difficulty in finding qualified candidates is affecting advertising agencies as well, said Jerry Neumann, a venture capitalist from Neu Venture Capital who invests in ad tech companies like 33 Across and YieldBot.

Agencies have not traditionally hired for skills like “number crunching, data visualization, quantitative analysis,” Mr. Neumann said. “They’ve never needed those in the past.” Instead, media buyers and even those on the creative side of agencies need to prepare for a new digital reality.

“The kind of media buying that’s happening now is much more quantitative” Mr. Neumann said. “The agencies are staffed for qualitative.”

Instead of coming up with one grand idea, new digitally adept workers in creative fields should be able to devise multiple ways to execute an idea. For example, a variety of Facebook ads can be devised, then tested on the fly to see which appeal to consumers, Mr. Neumann said.

The increasing ability for marketers to put specific ads in front of specific viewers at specific times, whether on mobile devices or personal computers, also creates a need for employees who can conceptualize and execute simultaneous concepts. Mr. Zawadzki said the future for creative talent would be “to come up with thousands of ideas, put them out there and see what works.”

Jennifer Seidel, the executive vice president for agency relations and membership at the American Association of Advertising Agencies, said agencies that were more general in their focus were having a harder time attracting talent with deep digital or quantitative skills.

“Part of it is to get people to recognize that it’s a viable career choice,” Ms. Seidel said. To that end, the trade organization hopes to have a Web site soon that will feature the range of people with nontraditional skill sets who work at advertising agencies. They have also formed a committee to address talent gaps at agencies and to offer training seminars for members.

Ms. Seidel and other ad tech executives said outreach to universities was also critical.

“Colleges and universities are not teaching the skills they need to survive in this environment,” said Doug Weaver, the founder and chief executive of the Upstream Group, a company that provides digital training to publishers and agencies. While some universities have advertising and marketing concentrations, “the traditional media sales or ad skill set was not built for this,” Mr. Weaver said. “You need a hybrid.”

Some agencies, like Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, part of the Omnicom Group, have put formal training programs in place. Its program, called Ed, began last July and has offered more than 100 classes on everything from “field trips to Facebook,” said Allison Kent-Smith, director for digital development at Goodby. Ms. Kent-Smith said employees were trained in areas like interactive design, social media, HTML and coding languages like CSS.

“You have to get very close to technology,” Ms. Kent-Smith said. “You have to get your hands in it.”

The Ad:tech conference will be held at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in Manhattan from Nov. 8 to 10, and will include a panel on how marketers can build a digitally skilled “brand dream team.”

But panels and training may not be enough. Erika Weinstein, president of the executive recruitment firm Stephen-Bradford Search, said the bigger issue for agencies trying to fill the talent gap was managing the grand expectations of what these new employees were expected to do.

“Something has gone terribly out of whack in looking for realistic talent,” Ms. Weinstein said. Many companies are looking for “a five-headed monster,” focusing on creative and highly technical skills and a strong business acumen. Agencies, Ms. Weinstein said, needed to “get realistic not only about what they want from the candidate, but what are they going to offer.”
1181 2011-10-31 LOS ANGELES — “He’s not selling out, he’s buying in,” says the slogan for “POM Wonderful Presents: The Greatest Movie Ever Sold,” Morgan Spurlock’s whimsical documentary about product placement in movies and television shows.

Not one to leave a dollar on the table, at least when it comes to financing films, Mr. Spurlock now plans to help the rest of the documentary world buy in.

At the DOC NYC Film Festival on Wednesday, Mr. Spurlock is expected to join Thom Powers, the festival’s artistic director, and Claudia Strauss, chief executive of Grey New York’s Alliance unit, in announcing a program to help documentary makers round up product placement money for the marketing and distribution of their wares. The program is called “Launch PAD” — the letters stand for “prints, advertising and distribution.”

The idea is simple, if somewhat unexpected, given documentarians’ frequent tilt toward subjects like death row (as in Werner Herzog’s “Into the Abyss”) or impending doom (in Jon Shenk’s “The Island President,” about the sinking Maldives). Alliance plans to approach potential brand partners with a roster of films selected by Mr. Spurlock, Mr. Powers and its own executive team, asking each for $50,000 or more to become identified with the marketing of a film.

It is not hard to see the appeal for the filmmakers: Documentary makers are perennially starved for cash, particularly when it comes time to distribute a movie that may have cost relatively little to make. But companies may also have something to gain from an association with reality-oriented filmmakers who often pride themselves on speaking truth to power.

“We need to strive for new ways for brands to be transparent and have authentic voices,” Ms. Strauss said. Speaking by telephone last week, she described a changing consumer culture that places new value on, of all things, the truth.
1182 2011-10-31 ¶Marriott International, Bethesda, Md., named MEC, part of the GroupM unit of WPP, as its lead worldwide media agency as part of a consolidation. The assignment, with spending estimated at more than $86 million, is for brands that include Marriott Hotels and Resorts, Marriott Rewards and Ritz-Carlton. The duties had been divided among MEC and three other agencies: Carat, part of the Aegis Group; Starcom, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group unit of the Publicis Groupe; and ZenithOptimedia, also owned by Publicis.

¶Pei Wei Asian Diner, part of P. F. Chang’s China Bistro, Scottsdale, Ariz., selected Olson, Minneapolis, as its agency for strategy, advertising, digital ads and media. Billings were not disclosed. The assignment had been handled by Vitro, San Diego, part of MDC Partners. The Olson Chicago office has handled public relations for Pei Wei for the last three years.

¶Andrew Jung, executive vice president and chief marketing officer at MPA — the Association of Magazine Media, New York, left last week after 14 months in the post. A successor is being sought, the association said. Word of Mr. Jung’s departure came days after he helped represent the association at the 2011 annual conference of the Association of National Advertisers, which took place in Phoenix from Oct. 20 to 23.

¶Lorraine Twohill, vice president for global marketing at Google, was honored as 2011 Grand Brand Genius by Adweek, part of Prometheus Global Media, as part of its new Brand Genius Awards. The awards, to be presented annually, are the successors to the Brandweek Marketer of the Year Awards; Prometheus merged Brandweek and another trade publication, Mediaweek, into Adweek. Ms. Twohill was selected from among 11 honorees from 10 companies who received Brand Genius Awards.

¶Elkman Advertising is being reopened in Philadelphia by three generations of the Elkman family, including Stanley Elkman, who founded the agency in 1954. It was known as Elkman/Alexander & Partners when it was closed in 2003. Mollie Elkman, the grandniece of Stanley, will lead the agency as president. Group Two, Philadelphia, an Elkman family shop that specializes in real estate advertising, will continue to operate, as a separate agency.

¶Marcus Thomas, Cleveland, acquired the United States operations of DigiKnow, a digital marketing company with offices in Cleveland and Buenos Aires. Financial terms were not disclosed. Thirteen employees of DigiKnow will join Marcus Thomas, as will four DigiKnow executives who become senior vice presidents and digital strategists: Scott Chapin, King Hill, John Katila and Ian Verschuren. The DigiKnow Buenos Aires office will continue to operate as an independent company.

¶Publicis Groupe, Paris, is aligning two digital agencies that specialize in health care advertising, Digitas Health and Razorfish Health, with the Publicis Healthcare Communications Group. Digitas Health and Razorfish Health will operate as stand-alone units inside Publicis Healthcare.
1183 2011-10-31 What’s the worst way a day can end for a diligent Manhattan worker bee? You’ve logged some late hours at your desk, pushing through a project or getting ready for that big meeting in the morning. You hop the 11 p.m. train for your suburban castle, looking forward to winding down on the ride.

But as soon as the doors close, you realize you’re on a sports train, one crammed with fans on their way home from a Rangers or Mets or any other flavor of game. There will be no rest for the weary on this commute. Instead there will be overwhelming proof that sports bring out the adolescent in otherwise responsible adults: your fellow passengers will indulge in deafening chest-thumping (if it was a win), ear-splitting wailing and cursing (if it was a loss), possibly even fistfights (if it was a crosstown rivalry).

Reed Martin, Austin Tichenor and Matt Rippy have apparently been on a few such trains, taking notes. “The Complete World of Sports (abridged),” their daffy stage show at the New Victory Theater, is pitched directly, and proudly, at the juvenile in sports fans of all ages. As the program notes, it, like other productions by their Reduced Shakespeare Company, is rated PG-13: “pretty good if you’re 13.”

The show, a manically paced collection of one-liners and puns with a little audience participation thrown in, promises to take up “every single sport ever played on every continent,” as Martin says, and it more or less does. The three men, delivering the material in a parody of an ESPN “SportsCenter,” proceed to divide sports into nine categories (“Ball and Stick,” “Sports Played in a Circle,” “Fastest and Strongest”) and then visit each continent to review what is or used to be played there.

Some of the sports mentioned are obscure to the point of possibly being fictitious: extreme curling, cigar boxing. But the familiar ones are given ample time as well.
1184 2011-10-31 MOSCOW — A top adviser to President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia said Sunday that the handful of outstanding issues necessary for Russia to join the World Trade Organization could be resolved in a matter of hours, suggesting that a deal was imminent after 18 years of stop-and-go negotiations.

The adviser, Arkady V. Dvorkovich, made the comments after a meeting between Mr. Medvedev and the president of Switzerland. Switzerland has been acting as a mediator in thorny talks with Georgia, which, as a member of the trade organization, has the power to block Russia’s membership bid.

“There are a number of issues that will require clarification,” Mr. Dvorkovich said after the talks. He said the Swiss negotiators would travel to Tbilisi, the Georgian capital, to discuss them.

“We hope that all the issues will be agreed on over the next few hours,” he said, in comments reported by the Interfax news service, adding that none were major problems.

The comments suggest that Russia is seeking some changes to a compromise proposal that Georgia endorsed Thursday. Georgia has sought trade-monitoring missions on its border with Russia, and its negotiators claimed they had softened their original position by agreeing that the monitors would be private contractors, rather than government employees. According to the proposal, put forward by Swiss mediators, the private contractors would be hired by neutral parties, like the European Union.
1185 2011-10-31 Patterson’s Response to His Appeal Dismissal, and Other Case Documents

Despite a recommendation by the Texas Board of Pardons and Parole that Kelsey Patterson be spared due to severe mentally illness, he was executed for a double murder in 2004.
1186 2011-10-31 ''I've finally cracked it!'' Steven P. Jobs, co-founder of Apple, told his biographer, Walter Isaacson.     Although Mr. Jobs was referring to Apple's plans to build a full-fledged television, he was not actually referring to the TV set, which is ...
1187 2011-10-31 Consumers who want to make sure they don't miss any items on their holiday food shopping lists may want to pay attention to a new ad campaign by Pepperidge Farm.     The campaign, which begins Tuesday, promotes the company's new line of Stone Bake...
1188 2011-10-31 The November issue of Every Day With Rachael Ray is a bounty of Thanksgiving goodness: 322 ideas, 121 recipes and 40-plus bonus pages.     But in one sense the publisher was a bit stingy....