1 2013-05-01 4:58 p.m. | Updated FRANKFURT &#x2014; Shares in Deutsche Bank rose for a second day after the bank sold 2.96 billion euros ($3.87 billion) in new stock on Tuesday to help it bolster the size of its capital reserves.&#xa;   &#xa;Deutsche Bank has ...
2 2013-05-01 Though there was once a time when Netflix was most closely associated with its bright red DVD-return envelopes, the company &#x2014; now better known as a video-streaming service &#x2014; is hoping that orange will be its color this summer. On Tue...
3 2013-05-01 GIBBS--Emily G.,passed away peacefully on April 29, 2013, of Glen Cove, New York. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Stanley Gibbs. Loving mother of Betsy, Eric and Alan. Cherished grandmother of Simon, Sophie, Tyler and Jordan. Services Thursday 11am a...
4 2013-05-01 9:00 p.m. | Updated &#xa;&#xa;   &#xa;With a $145 billion cash hoard,  Apple  could acquire  Facebook ,  Hewlett-Packard  and  Yahoo . Put another way, it could buy every office building and retail space in New York, according to city estimates....
5 2013-05-01 A federal court dismissed a copyright claim in which the listings company argued that it held exclusive licenses to advertisements posted on its Web site....
6 2013-05-01 The American arm of the ING Group, the Dutch financial services firm, priced its initial public offering at $19.50 a share, below its expected range of $21 to $24. But with nearly $1.3 billion in proceeds, the deal is the second-biggest I.P.O. in ...
7 2013-05-01 The animated GIF is the digital equivalent of the hypnotist’s swinging watch....
8 2013-05-01 A brisk chat between Googlers and a media maven about the emerging Knowosphere....
9 2013-05-01 A new study adds to evidence of a link between late-life depression and dementia....
10 2013-05-01 If you are audited by the I.R.S. and found to owe money, there are multiple steps you can take to appeal....
11 2013-05-01 Wembley is the next stop for Bayern Munich, which will face rival Borussia Dortmund for the Champions League title....
12 2013-05-01 Credit Suisse is said to have named Marisa Drew and Ewen Stevenson as co-heads of its investment banking operations in Europe, the Middle East and Africa....
13 2013-05-01 Apple issued $17 billion of bonds, a record amount. | Wall Street and foreign finance ministers are fighting a proposal to require overseas offices of American-based financial firms to turn over information on certain foreign trades. | Venture cap...
14 2013-05-01 Western leaders want proof before taking action on Syria’s alleged use of chemical weapons. In an earlier conflict, they had the proof but did nothing....
15 2013-05-01 Bryan Bickell scored in overtime on a two-on-one rush, and the Chicago Blackhawks opened the playoffs on a winning note after dominating the regular season, beating the Minnesota Wild, 2-1, on Tuesday night.

Marian Hossa also scored for host Chicago, and goalie Corey Crawford settled down after allowing a soft goal in the opening minutes. Game 2 is Friday at United Center.

In a game tied since early in the second period, the Blackhawks won after Johnny Oduya chipped the puck off the boards to Viktor Stalberg on the right side. Stalberg then dished it to Bickell on the two-on-one rush, and he scored from in front 16 minutes 35 seconds into overtime.

Big things are expected in Chicago after a spectacular regular season that included a record start and the team’s first Presidents’ Trophy since 1991.

The Blackhawks are eyeing a run to the Stanley Cup for the second time in four years. They have been eliminated in the first round the past two seasons after beating Philadelphia for the championship in 2010.
16 2013-05-01 ALBUQUERQUE (AP) — The southern New Mexico plant that has been fighting for more than a year for permission to slaughter horses will open soon, unless Congress reinstates a ban on the practice, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said Tuesday.

In a telephone interview on Tuesday, Mr. Vilsack said his department was working to make sure the process was handled properly for the opening of what would be the first domestic horse slaughterhouse in six years.

“We are going to do this, and I would imagine that it would be done relatively soon,” he said.

The Valley Meat Company sued the Department of Agriculture last year, asserting that inaction on its application was driven by emotional political debates and that the delays had cost it hundreds of thousands of dollars.

The department reinspected the plant last week.

“It will open unless Congress restores the ban on horse slaughter that they had in place,” Mr. Vilsack said. “If that doesn’t happen, then we are duty bound to do what needs to be done to allow that plant to begin processing.”

The Obama administration opposes horse slaughter. Its recent budget proposal eliminates financing for inspections of horse slaughterhouses, which would effectively reinstate a ban on the practice in which horses are processed for human consumption. Congress eliminated that financing in 2006, which forced a shutdown of domestic slaughter facilities. But Congress reinstated the money in 2011, prompting Valley Meat and a few other businesses around the country to seek permission to open plants.

The debate over whether to return to domestic horse slaughter has divided horse rescue and animal humane groups, ranchers, politicians and Indian tribes.
17 2013-05-01 Mr. Zimmerman, 29, a neighborhood watch volunteer, is accused of the February 2012 killing of Mr. Martin, an unarmed high school student from Miami Gardens. Mr. Zimmerman told the police that he shot Mr. Martin after the teenager attacked him. The shooting provoked outrage from those who believed that Mr. Zimmerman, who is Hispanic, was guilty of racial profiling in pursuing Mr. Martin, who was black. The police and the prosecutor initially did not bring charges against Mr. Zimmerman, further inflaming the situation.

In a move that appeared to take Mr. O’Mara by surprise, Judge Nelson said she needed to question Mr. Zimmerman to make sure he understood that no pretrial hearing would take place. Mr. O’Mara balked, but once he learned that there would be no substantive questions about the case, he allowed Mr. Zimmerman to assure the judge that he was waiving his right to the hearing.

“After consultation with my counsel, yes, Your Honor,” Mr. Zimmerman said, in answer to her question about his rights.

Tuesday’s three-hour hearing also served to spotlight the tension between the prosecutor, Bernie de la Rionda, and Mr. Zimmerman’s defense team. The two sides have been battling over requests for documents and the pace of discovery.

The atmosphere grew so heated that the judge scolded both sides, saying the court would not tolerate their sniping.

The bitterness spilled over into legal documents recently, when Mr. de la Rionda called Mr. O’Mara guilty of “craven conduct” and said that he showboated in front of the news media.

Mr. O’Mara has long wrangled with Mr. de la Rionda over information, including a statement from a key witness, that Mr. O’Mara said had been withheld from the defense and turned over only after a protracted fight. In March, Mr. O’Mara filed a motion, which was heard on Tuesday, accusing the state of “discovery violations.” He also requested $4,555 in financial sanctions, stemming from lost time.

“When do we start playing fair?” Mr. O’Mara asked the court.

Judge Nelson ruled Tuesday that prosecutors did not violate discovery rules, but she said she would take up any possible financial compensation after the trial.

During the hearing, Mr. de la Rionda acknowledged that he learned in August that so-called Witness 8, a young woman who was speaking with Mr. Martin on the phone shortly before he was killed, had lied to law enforcement officials. Earlier last year, the young woman said she had skipped Mr. Martin’s funeral because stress had sent her to the hospital. After no hospital records turned up, she told Mr. de la Rionda that she had lied.

Despite requests over several months for information about the hospital visit, Mr. O’Mara said, prosecutors did not tell him about the lie until March, one day before a scheduled hearing to discuss the issue. Mr. O’Mara said the lie spoke to the witness’s credibility.

“She did say she had lied about that,” Mr. de la Rionda told the court. “I did not inform them because I forgot about it.”

Mr. O’Mara said that prosecutors also stalled on handing over images of Mr. Zimmerman’s injuries and that they enhanced audio files of the conversation between Witness 8 and the Martin family lawyer. In addition, he pointed out that Mr. Martin’s mother was sitting next to Witness 8 as the young woman recounted her final phone conversation with Mr. Martin.

In court, Mr. de la Rionda said that he had done nothing wrong and that the information had been turned over, as requested.
18 2013-05-01 A Pakistani court on Tuesday barred Pervez Musharraf, the country’s former military ruler, from running for public office for life. Judges had previously barred Mr. Musharraf from running in the parliamentary elections scheduled for May 11. The lifetime ban from Peshawar High Court came after an appeal by Mr. Musharraf’s lawyer to allow him to run in the coming elections. Mr. Musharraf returned to Pakistan in March after four years in self-imposed exile.
19 2013-05-01 Mr. Anderson, an assistant United States attorney, told the jury that Mr. Liu had to have understood Mr. Pan’s meaning, since Richard Kong’s goal had been to gain access to Mr. Liu and future help from him.

“The point of doing it is to make sure the candidate knows where the money is really coming from,” Mr. Anderson said.

“It would defeat the whole purpose of the straw-donor scheme if the candidate doesn’t know where the money’s coming from. That’s the whole point of these people funneling large donations into the campaign. It’s to get credit for it.”

Mr. Liu’s lawyer, Paul Shechtman, said of the prosecutor’s assertion on Tuesday: “It’s a sad day when a great office substitutes rhetoric for evidence. There was not a shred of evidence at the trial or in the last three years that John Liu knew about any wrongdoing that might be connected to his campaign.”

Mr. Shechtman added, “I’ve learned in life that when a prosecutor says that someone had to know, it means that they have no proof that he did know.”

In a review of the government’s case that lasted more than three hours, Mr. Anderson argued that the evidence showed “a corrupt scheme to undermine an election, conceal the source of campaign contributions, hide intermediaries and cheat the city out of the public’s money.”

He cited testimony by a former boyfriend of Ms. Hou that she had offered to reimburse him if he made a $500 donation, and by a senior Liu aide, Sharon Lee, who said she had called a few family members and friends, offering to reimburse their contributions.

Mr. Anderson also accused Ms. Hou of not fully responding to a grand jury subpoena seeking e-mails and other documents and of making false statements to federal agents.

“She stuck by her lies,” he said, “hoping that she would be able to cover up the straw-donor scheme.”

Ms. Hou’s lawyers deny that she had any knowledge of, or role in, any scheme. Mr. Pan’s lawyers contend that there is no evidence he intended to engage in a scheme to deprive the city of matching funds; they also argue that Mr. Pan was pressured into participating in the straw-donor scheme by the undercover agent. The defense lawyers are to make their summations on Wednesday.
20 2013-05-01 They have not yet decided whether to intervene in Republican primaries, people involved in the discussions say. But the brothers want their network to play a bigger role in cultivating and promoting Republican candidates who hew to their vision of conservatism, emphasizing smaller government and deregulation more than immigration and social issues. They are also seeking closer control over groups within their network, purging or downgrading those that did not deliver last year and expanding financing for those that performed well.

“After the 2012 election, we took a long, hard look at the effectiveness of the organizations we support — what they did well, what worked and areas where we can be more effective,” said Robert A. Tappan, a Koch spokesman. “This past weekend’s gathering was an opportunity to share the lessons learned from 2012.”

Those discussions unfolded over two days at the Renaissance Esmeralda, a sprawling golf resort that has previously hosted the Kochs’ twice-yearly conferences. The atmosphere was equal parts revival and situation room, participants said: Phones and electronic devices were banned from some panels, as Koch strategists detailed next year’s electoral battlegrounds and donors committed contributions to particular states or projects.

At least a half-dozen rising Republican stars were also in attendance. They included Dr. Ben Carson, a Baltimore neurosurgeon who has quickly developed a following among grass-roots conservatives, and several members of the Tea Party wing: Govs. Nikki R. Haley of South Carolina and John R. Kasich of Ohio, along with Senators Ted Cruz of Texas and Rand Paul of Kentucky.

Donors and others involved with the Koch-backed groups believe that the libertarian conservatism espoused by the brothers could help reinvigorate Republican fortunes, particularly among the young. They are also seeking to match the data and vote-targeting machinery built by Mr. Obama, widely credited as one of the most important factors in his re-election.

“We’re looking into some of that cutting-edge technology,” said Evan Feinberg, a former aide to Mr. Paul who is now president of Generation Opportunity, a Koch-financed group focusing on young voters. “Obama for America did some really interesting things to connect to young people. We want to use some of those same ideas and try to learn from them.”

Efforts are also under way to replicate the Democrats’ voter registration organizations, which Koch advisers believe have leapfrogged those of conservative and Republican groups. And much like other conservative groups, those in the Koch network are preparing new initiatives aimed at Hispanic voters, who they believe will be attracted to a small-government message unburdened by the hard-edged social conservatism that hamstrung Republican candidates in several critical races last year.

Many of those efforts will emanate from the Libre Initiative, a Hispanic-oriented conservative group for which the Koch network plans to expand financing this year. Some groups, like the 60 Plus Association, a conservative group aimed at courting older voters, are likely to receive less support going forward. In other cases, the Kochs are seeking to knit organizations more closely with their company’s in-house public affairs team.

This year, for example, two trusted Koch employees were placed on the board of Americans for Prosperity, the brothers’ flagship grass-roots organization. A new tax-exempt group, the Association for American Innovation, is being set up to manage turf disputes among the many different state-level groups that receive money from the Koch network.

But even as they retool, the Kochs face intense competition for dollars and talent. An entire universe of conservative super PACs and other groups has expanded in the wake of the Supreme Court’s Citizens United decision, one only loosely tethered to either party’s traditional infrastructure. Some, like American Crossroads, founded by Karl Rove, have conducted similar self-autopsies and have begun parallel efforts to recruit young or Latino voters. Often, they are seeking out the same donors.

“Everybody wants your money,” said Stanley S. Hubbard, a Minnesota-based media mogul. Mr. Hubbard said he and other donors had decided to wait a few months before committing to the Kochs’ groups or any others.

“I think they’re very smart on pointing out the things that are foolish,” Mr. Hubbard said, referring to the attack ads run last year by groups like Americans for Prosperity. “They run ads attacking what’s wrong. I’d like to see them point out what would be good policies, and why.”
21 2013-05-01 Ricin was found in the former martial arts studio of the man suspected of sending poison letters to President Obama and other public officials, federal prosecutors said in a court document made public on Tuesday. It was also discovered on a dust mask and other items he threw in the trash, they said. The affidavit says an F.B.I. surveillance team saw the suspect, J. Everett Dutschke, remove several items from the studio in Tupelo on April 22 and dump them in a trash bin about 100 yards down the street. The items included a ricin-tainted dust mask, the affidavit said. Mr. Dutschke used the Internet to buy castor beans, from which ricin is derived, the affidavit said. He was arrested Saturday and is being held without bond pending a preliminary and detention hearing Thursday in Oxford. Prosecutors have dropped charges against an Elvis impersonator who says the two had feuded.
22 2013-05-01 In 1946, Ms. Durbin’s salary of $323,477 from Universal made her the second-highest-paid woman in America, just $5,000 behind Bette Davis.

Her own problems began when she outgrew the role that had brought her fame. Critics responded negatively to her attempts to be an adult on screen, as a prostitute in love with a killer in Robert Siodmak’s bleak film noir “Christmas Holiday” (1944) and as a debutante mixed up in a murder plot in “Lady on a Train” (1945.)

The child-star persona affected her personal life as well.

“When my first marriage failed, everyone said that I could never divorce. It would ruin the ‘image,’ ” she told Robert Shipman in Films and Filming magazine in 1983. “How could anybody really think that I was going to spend the rest of my life with a man I found I didn’t love, just for the sake of an ‘image’?”

The man was Vaughn Paul, an assistant director, whom she had married at 19 in 1941. The marriage lasted two years. Her second marriage, to Felix Jackson, the 43-year-old producer of several of her films, also ended in divorce, after the birth of a daughter.

The third marriage was a success: in 1950, at 28, she married Charles David, the 44-year-old French director of “Lady on a Train.” After starring in 21 feature films, she retired to a French farmhouse.

“I hated being in a goldfish bowl,” she said.

Edna Mae Durbin was born on Dec. 4, 1921, in Winnipeg, Manitoba, and grew up in Southern California, where she studied singing. She was discovered by an MGM casting director searching Los Angeles singing schools for someone to portray the opera star Ernestine Schumann-Heink as a child.

Signed by the studio at 13, Ms. Durbin, who already possessed a mature coloratura soprano, soon appeared in a one-reel short, “Every Sunday,” with another recently signed 13-year-old, Judy Garland, who sang swing while Ms. Durbin sang classical music.

Her MGM career ended suddenly, however, when Schumann-Heink, who was to play herself as an adult in the movie about her life, died at 75 and the studio did not pick up Ms. Durbin’s option. Shortly afterward she moved to Universal, shepherded there by Rufus Le Maire, a former MGM executive who had switched his allegiance to the rival studio.

Ms. Durbin was quickly handed to Joe Pasternak, who produced her first 10 movies, and to Henry Koster, who directed six of them: “Three Smart Girls,” “One Hundred Men and a Girl,” “Three Smart Girls Grow Up,” “First Love,” “Spring Parade” and “It Started With Eve.”

In his autobiography, “Easy the Hard Way,” Mr. Pasternak — who would eventually move to MGM and build the careers of two other coloratura sopranos, Kathryn Grayson and Jane Powell — said that stardom was always “a matter of chemistry between the public and the player” and that no one could take credit for discovering Deanna Durbin.

“You can’t hide that kind of light under a bushel,” he wrote. “You just can’t, even if you try.”

Ms. Durbin, who was originally to have ninth billing in “Three Smart Girls,” became the movie’s star when studio executives saw the first rushes. About the same time, in 1936, she began singing on Eddie Cantor’s popular weekly radio program.

In 1938 there was a nationwide search to choose the young man who would give Ms. Durbin her first screen kiss in the movie “First Love.” (Robert Stack was the actor chosen.) She was given a special miniature 1938 Academy Award for her “significant contribution in bringing to the screen the spirit and personification of youth.”

In movie after movie Ms. Durbin’s character found a way to help the struggling grown-ups in her life: reuniting her divorced parents, persuading the conductor Leopold Stokowski to help her out-of-work musician father, cajoling a stranger into becoming her father for a day.

Many of the films were Depression fairy tales in which Ms. Durbin won over or defeated silly rich people with the help of butlers, cooks and chauffeurs, who often risked their jobs to aid her.

After moving to France in 1949 and settling outside Paris in the village of Neauphle-le-Château, Ms. Durbin devoted most of her time to keeping her home, cooking and raising her children. In addition to Peter, her son from her marriage to Mr. David, Ms. Durbin had a daughter, Jessica, from her second marriage. Mr. David died in 1999, a few months before their 50th wedding anniversary.

Mr. David once said that he and Ms. Durbin had made a deal that he would protect her “from spiders, mosquitoes and reporters.”

Ms. Durbin, who gave almost no interviews after she left Hollywood, did send reporters a letter in 1958 that read in part: “I was a typical 13-year-old American girl. The character I was forced into had little or nothing in common with myself — or with other youth of my generation, for that matter. I could never believe that my contemporaries were my fans. They may have been impressed with my ‘success.’ but my fans were the parents, many of whom could not cope with their own youngsters. They sort of adopted me as their ‘perfect’ daughter.”

In the letter, which was excerpted in some newspapers, she also wrote: “I was never happy making pictures. I’ve gained weight. I do my own shopping, bring up my two children and sing an hour every day.”
23 2013-05-01 Many experts say it is not a refusal to enter the 21st century as much as wariness, of the government toward its citizens and vice versa.

Doing business in China takes a lot of cash because Chinese authorities refuse to print any bill larger than the 100-renminbi note. That’s equivalent to $16. Since 1988, the 100-renminbi note, graced by ’s visage, has been the largest note in circulation, even though the economy has grown fiftyfold. (The country’s national icon, Chairman Mao, appears on nearly every note: the 1-, 5-, 10-, 20, 50- and 100- renminbi note.)

Chinese economists and government officials often suggest that printing larger denomination notes might fuel inflation. But there is another reason.

“I’m convinced the government doesn’t want a larger bill because of corruption,” said Nicholas R. Lardy, a leading authority on the Chinese economy at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in , noting that it would help facilitate corrupt payments to officials. “Instead of trunks filled with cash bribes you’d have people using envelopes. And there’d be more cash leaving the country.”

All the buying, bribing and hoarding forces China to print a lot of paper money. China, which a millennium ago was the first government to print paper money, accounts for about 40 percent of all global paper currency output, according to a report published by the China Banknote Printing and Minting Corporation. Adjusting for the size of its economy, China has about five times as much cash in circulation as the United States.

In the United States, the highest denomination printed is $100; in , it is the 10,000-yen note, worth about $100; the 500 is the highest-denomination euro note, worth about $650. No major economy has limited itself to such a low denominated bill as China.

By making the 100-renminbi note the largest bill, the nation’s citizens need more of it to buy a television or Swiss watch, never mind a car, home or a yacht, which China’s state-run media said was bought a few years ago by men bearing two suitcases filled with cash.

Following those paper bills as they course through this booming economy offers a fascinating glimpse into how China’s financial system works, and how parts of the country remain stuck in yesteryear.

“In large parts of China, it still looks like the U.S. in the 1950s: most everything is in cash,” said Jeffrey R. Williams, executive director of the Harvard Center Shanghai and a former bank executive who has worked in China for more than 30 years. “In the U.S., you might have one bill-counting machine at a bank, but here every teller has one.”

Although China’s coastal cities have flourished during the 30 years of economic prosperity, economists say the country’s interior remains poor and disconnected from the more modern aspects of the financial grid. As a result, the poor prefer to do business in cash.

The rich also like to deal in cash, and they typically hide their money in the underground economy to avoid government scrutiny of their wealth. As was the case in other developing economies of , easily traceable credit cards and checks are not commonly used.

“The average Chinese trusts neither the Chinese banks nor the ,” said Friedrich Schneider, an authority on shadow economies around the world and a professor of economics at the Johannes Kepler University of Linz in . “This is simply a mistrust of government. And so lots of people deal only in cash.”

That lack of trust fosters a cat-and-mouse game between the government and its subjects, analysts say. Executives make secret cash deals to earn outside consulting fees while working at state-run companies. The government responds by trying to penetrate a vast underground economy, where off-the-books transactions are conducted almost entirely in cash, because it is harder for the authorities to trace and .

Often, the culprits are the very government officials who are supposed to be upholding the laws.

Take the case of Wen Qiang, the former police chief in the city of Chongqing. He was caught in 2009 with nearly a million dollars in renminbi, carefully wrapped in plastic bags and hidden in a water tank at a relative’s home.

In another case, the brother of China’s former railway minister was caught hiding about $5 million worth of renminbi at his home, some of it stored so poorly that the mildewed bills broke one government bill-counting machine.

To keep a lid on the illegal cash transfers, China restricts cross-border money transfers and places limits on foreign currency exchange.

Understandably, printing all that money is a major endeavor. The China Banknote Printing and Minting Corporation runs 80 production lines with 30,000 workers, six bank note companies, two paper mills, a printmaking company, a plate-making corporation and a firm that produces special anticounterfeiting security lines.

The People’s Bank of China, which oversees the operation, declined to comment on what the government calls the “name cards of the Republic.”

Perhaps those paper bills should come with a warning about storage practices. Last month, a migrant worker in Shanghai discovered that mice had chewed into tiny pieces the $1,200 his wife stored in a closet.

A local bank agreed to exchange the money if the man could reassemble at least three-quarters of a bill.

“But the bills are now in small pieces and it’s almost impossible to fix them,” said Zhao Zhiyong, the 37-year-old worker. “Who could know that the money would be chewed by mice?”
24 2013-05-01 LAFITTE, La. (AP) — Gov. Bobby Jindal says BP has agreed to finance $340 million in restoration projects in the Gulf of Mexico.

Mr. Jindal said Tuesday that the money was part of the $1 billion that BP agreed to pay for early restoration work after the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill.

The $1 billion is a down payment on restoration to be paid for through the Natural Resources Damage Assessment — an amount that will be set by the federal judge who also will set fines under the Clean Water Act. The first phase of that trial ended in April; the second phase is scheduled to begin in September.

BP said in a news release that it had agreed months ago to the projects described Tuesday and others, but that federal and state trustees held off the announcement.

At a news conference in Lafitte, Mr. Jindal said that most of the money would restore three barrier islands in Barataria Bay and one in Breton Sound.

More than $20 million will establish two fish hatcheries and research centers: one in Lake Charles; the other in Pointe à la Hache.
25 2013-05-01 WASHINGTON (Reuters) — Home prices rose in February at their fastest rate in almost seven years, another sign the housing market recovery will help counter the drag on the economy from government belt-tightening.

The S&P/Case Shiller index of 20 metropolitan areas released on Tuesday showed single-family home prices rose 9.3 percent in February from a year earlier.

The data reinforces the view that rising home prices could make Americans feel better about spending this year, helping counter a blow to economic growth from tax increases and government spending cuts.

“This will be a powerful positive fundamental, not only for housing, but presumably helpful for consumer spending as well,” said Stephen Stanley an economist at Pierpont Securities in Stamford, Conn.

Another report showed consumer confidence rebounded in April as Americans felt better about the outlook for the economy and their income prospects. The Conference Board, a private industry group, said its index of consumer attitudes rose to 68.1 from a revised 61.9 the previous month. Economists polled by Reuters had expected a reading of 60.8.
26 2013-05-01 “I can’t control customs or security; some are good, some are bad, but what I can control is our touch points,” Mr. Hogan said. “So the experience in the lounge is important to us.”

Mr. Hogan complained in February that the airline was getting the runaround in New York, but by April the airline was predicting a new Etihad lounge would open at Kennedy in 2014 or 2015. “A potential space has been identified,” Niall Doheny, an Etihad spokesman, said by e-mail. JFK International Air Terminal, the company that runs Terminal 4, declined to answer questions about Etihad’s complaint.

Improving the airport experience has long been a priority for airlines with heavy passenger traffic passing through their home base en route to somewhere else, according to a report on airports by the consulting firm Oliver Wyman. “In the Middle East in particular, the newly developed hubs have based their business models around transfer passengers,” the report says, but it is also true for airlines like Cathay Pacific, Singapore, Turkish and Lufthansa. Song Hoi See, chief executive of the airport services company Plaza Premium Lounge Management Hong Kong, said American airlines came late to the game.

“The reason why the U.S. is lacking is because traffic used to be concentrated on domestic traveling,” Mr. Song said. “Before 9/11, it was like going on a bus, you get to the airport half an hour before the plane leaves. After 9/11, even domestic traveling meant passengers had to wait longer in the airport.”

Now some airlines in the United States have decided that giving passengers a comfortable place to wait gives them a competitive advantage, especially at older airports, which can be short on amenities like electrical outlets, Wi-Fi, quality food and beverages and a place to sit and work.

“Increasingly what we’re focused on is having a highly segmented space, such that there are people in there doing work, people gearing up for the day. There are people in there unwinding and doing different things,” said Tim Mapes, senior vice president for marketing at Delta, which has spent $20 million on new or renovated lounges in Atlanta, Minneapolis, Seattle and Los Angeles, as well as in New York at Kennedy and La Guardia Airports. It is a lot of pampering and it is not over yet. Having spent 15 years managing airport lounges that cater to the minority of travelers for whom service is more important than price, Mr. Song says the trend is still evolving.

“Now you go to the lounge and they provide hot food and shower, wellness services, pedicure, manicure and also business center services, more than printing, but secretary, meeting and videoconferencing,” he said.

Premium services can even go beyond the airport; airlines, including Lufthansa, offer limousines, and Delta is considering what kind of amenities it can offer in city centers.

“Traditional airline thinking results in traditional customer experiences,” Mr. Mapes said. “We have to be a lifeline and have customers’ backs 24/7.”
27 2013-05-01 Q. Will you be expanding the program beyond the current 40 airports?

A. We started with the 20 largest airports. It doesn’t make any business sense to be in the smallest ones. We’re at the point that we will only add airports selectively if there is a business case that can justify it. But we have a goal to have 25 percent of all travelers in the United States by the end of the year go through some form of expedited physical screening.

Q. How much waiting time will all this cut?

A. It all depends on the airport, and on the time of the day, or what day of the week it is. If you’re at Atlanta Hartsfield [Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport] on Monday morning at 7 a.m., instead of just one PreCheck lane, we expanded to three or four lanes because there are so many people coming through. As the numbers increase we will open more and more PreCheck lanes in existing airports. We are building as we go.

Q. Will you ever lift the ban on liquids or allow people to keep their shoes on as the Europeans do?

A. We know because of Richard Reid [the so-called shoe bomber] in December 2001 that nonmetallic explosives can be concealed in shoes or in underwear. That is still a viable threat, as we’ve seen twice in the last three years.

Q. If you keep expanding your trusted-traveler program and keep including more people, isn’t there a risk or a potential for bad guys to also become part of it?

A. From a statistical standpoint, I suppose that’s true. But because of the prescreening we are doing, we have a much better idea of who they are and what possible threat they may pose. Under risk-based security, the question is let’s stop looking for prohibited items and let’s look more at the person.

Q. Do you worry that all the layers of security in place over the years — the liquids ban, the shoes — are too reactive and backward-looking and don’t give you enough leeway to look at future threats?

A. We don’t want terrorists to repeat something they’ve attempted or been successful doing in the past. All you have to do is look at the past three plots attempted against Western aviation.

Q. Is the aviation sector still a target that justifies all these policies?

A. Absolutely, there is no question about that. The bottom line is that U.S. aviation is the gold standard target for certain terrorist groups, and they are actively plotting on how they can conduct a successful attack. And that is what concerns me.

Q. But still the tolerance of the public is not infinite. Passengers could stop flying as much. Congress could step in and say the T.S.A. is overdoing it. Do you keep this in mind or do you not think about it?

A. Sure, I think one of T.S.A.’s jobs is to promote the free movement of people and goods with the best security. I didn’t see the one-size-fits-all as being sustainable. Clearly treating everybody as a potential terrorist, I didn’t see this as being sustainable.

Q. Still some say what T.S.A. does is just security theater.

A. I strongly disagree with that assessment. Every morning, I start with a classified intelligence brief. That’s the starting point of the highest risk. This whole notion is dispelled by the fact we still get on average four weapons at checkpoints and 2,000 small knives.

Q. In a recent week, T.S.A. found 44 guns, and 38 of them were loaded. Do people not realize they are carrying these weapons?

A. They forgot. That’s the general response. Or they blame it on a spouse packing their bag. Once we had a guy with a shoulder holster, and he took off his jacket and he starts going through the metal detector. The first rule of gun safety is know where your weapon is.

Q. And the law here is clear, right? It’s illegal to have a gun on a plane.

A. Yes. You are not allowed to attempt to get onto a plane with a gun.

Q. You’ve been in the news lately because you wanted to allow small pocketknives aboard. Why did you suspend that decision?

A. We announced a temporary delay for more feedback. My concern is we’ve been distracted by things that have not caused catastrophic failures in aircrafts.

Q. How are you affected by the mandatory budget cuts known as sequestration?

A. We didn’t have to furlough anyone. We are managing the sequester cuts by limiting overtime by our officers and by restricting new hires.
28 2013-05-01 The growth in passenger travel tells the story. Global traffic rose 4 percent last year, according to the Airports Council International, a trade group that represents more than 1,700 airports in 170 countries. In North America and Europe, airports had only modest gains. But air transportation in emerging economies has been buoyant — a testament to their dynamism and growth prospects in time of low interest rates, and their opportunities in raw materials, commodities and trade.

Traffic last year grew by 7.5 percent in Asia, 7.3 percent in Latin America, 6.4 percent in Africa and 13 percent in the Middle East, according to the airport trade group, outpacing Western airports by a wide margin. Five airports in emerging markets, each with more than 40 million annual passengers, reported double-digit growth — Istanbul, Dubai, Jakarta, Bangkok and Singapore — according to a report released last month by the airport group.

Atlanta, currently home to the world’s busiest airport, grew 3.3 percent. Chicago O’Hare International Airport, the second-busiest in the United States, actually shrank slightly, according to the report.

Nowhere has the growth in business travel been more robust and prolonged than in China. Passengers at Beijing Capital International Airport tripled in the last decade, and most travel experts expect that it will jump ahead of Atlanta’s Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport as the world’s top airport by passenger traffic next year.

China’s business travel spending has grown an average of 15.5 percent each year from 2000 to 2013 and is set to reach $226 billion this year, according to the Global Business Travel Association. Remarkably, that figure is growing even as China’s export-led economy begins to slow and make the transition to a consumer-oriented one.

Chinese business travel is forecast to increase nearly 17 percent next year, and China is set to overtake the United States as the world’s top business travel market by then.

Shanghai built a new terminal at the Hongqiao International Airport as part of a $9 billion investment program that also included a transportation hub linking the airport to city buses, subways and a new high-speed rail network. The airport, which opened three years ago and can handle 300,000 flights a year, has high-end shops like Armani and chains like Starbucks.

To cater to China’s rising middle class and fulfill the leadership’s desire to reduce the economy’s reliance on exports, businesses will need a better travel infrastructure across the vast Chinese interior. To that end, the Chinese government has outlined plans to build another 100 airports throughout the country over the next couple of years.

“You really have a changing landscape throughout the developing economies,” said Michael W. McCormick, the executive director of the Global Business Traveler Association, a group whose members include corporate travel managers. “The infrastructure is clearly racing to catch up with demand.”

Of course, travel off the beaten path holds its share of perils and inconveniences. Hotel infrastructure is often inadequate. Roads can be hazardous. Sometimes vaccines and antimalarial medication may be necessary.

Climate is another challenge. Summer temperatures in Qatar, which won its bid to host the 2022 Soccer World Cup, exceed 100 degrees Fahrenheit on average from May through September and can reach highs of 120 degrees. (Rest assured, there are plans for high-end cooling technology at match venues or, alternatively, to hold the tournament in the winter.)

There are other hazards presented by a rise in global travel, notably a greater risk of rapid disease transmission and pandemics. The latest threat emerged in China, where a previously unknown influenza virus infected dozens and killed at least 17 people recently. Another virus, similar to the one that caused severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, was also recently identified in the Middle East.

Security issues are another consideration. In some places, the risk of kidnapping cannot be ruled out. Business travel suffered throughout the Middle East in recent years during the Arab uprisings, though they have also created new opportunities in the region. The Libyan economy had one of the world’s fastest growth rates last year, according to the International Monetary Fund, reflecting a strong recovery after its collapse during the uprising that toppled Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.

While air travel is going through its safest period in its history — the United States recently had an exceptional four-year stretch without a fatal crash — flying in some parts of the world remains perilous. With just 3 percent of global traffic, airlines in Africa accounted for 17 percent of airline crashes last year, according to the International Air Transport Association, a group that represents most of the world’s airlines.

Africa has the worst record. Airlines, globally, averaged one accident for every five million flights last year. Africa lost one commercial plane every 270,000 flights. That figure has actually improved in recent years. In 2009, the rate was one accident for every 100,000 flights.

That poor safety record is hurting the region’s economic potential, according to Tony Tyler, I.A.T.A.’s director general. Of the 12 airlines in Central West Africa, for instance, only three have committed themselves to international safety standards — Cabo Verde Airlines, Air Burkina and Trans Air Cargo.

“With a few kilometers of tarmac, the most remote region can be connected to the global community,” Mr. Tyler said in a speech in Addis Ababa, the Ethiopian capital, last month. “And that could mean access to vital sources of health care and emergency assistance; jobs selling products in global markets or welcoming tourists; or opportunities for education, exploring the world or creating business.”

But, he said, “the biggest challenge for air transport in Africa is safety.”

Obviously Africa is not the only place with safety concerns. In April, a new Boeing 737 operated by Lion Air crashed into the sea as it tried to land at the Bali airport in Indonesia, though all the passengers survived.

Differences across countries and regions make it impossible to draw broad conclusions for business travelers, said Henry Harteveldt, a travel analyst at Hudson Crossing, a consulting firm in San Francisco. In many cases, the situation will vary greatly by country or by city. “It is very inconsistent,” he said.

The growth in emerging-market passenger demand has attracted the attention of big hotel chains, who are making large strategic bets throughout Asia, Latin America and the Middle East to cater to foreign business travelers and a growing number of domestic travelers.

Starwood Hotels, which owns the Sheraton and W Hotels chains, plans 100 new hotels in China over the next few years, many designed for the Chinese domestic audience and local tastes.

Last year, Marriott outlined a $2 billion, three-year plan to open new hotels around the world with an emphasis on emerging nations. A third of those will be in Asia. It plans to more than double its 54 hotels in China, with midprice hotels aimed at China’s middle class along with luxury five-star hotels.

As they cope with all this growth, global hotel chains are also bringing more consistent travel standards to emerging markets, said Christie Hicks, who runs Starwood’s sales operations and its business-to-business relations. Business travelers increasingly expect to find the same sort of amenities anywhere they travel, including high-speed Internet connections and Wi-Fi, fitness centers and healthy food options.

“They want a brand they recognize,” Ms. Hicks said. “They want all the things they need to feel at home when they are abroad.”

Yet travel experts still warn of room shortages and high hotel rates as the supply of accommodations fails to keep up with rising demand.

Largely because of a persistent shortage of hotel rooms, Moscow was the most expensive city for business travelers for the ninth consecutive year in 2012, according to the Hogg Robinson Group, a corporate services company based in Britain. Lagos, Nigeria, came second, despite a rise in new hotel construction for big-name brands like Sheraton, Ibis, Radisson Blu and InterContinental. Reflecting the room shortage, the Radisson Hotel in the city’s Victoria Island neighborhood advertises a standard room at about $410 a night.

In Latin America too, room rates have soared as capacity has failed to keep up with demand. Business travel spending in Brazil has tripled since 2000 and is expected to reach $34.5 billion this year, according to the Global Business Travel Association. At that pace, the country is set to overtake France, Britain and Italy in travel spending in the next two years.

But even though Brazil is pumping billions of dollars into airports as it prepares for the World Cup and Olympics, work on hotels is still lagging, travel experts said. The last luxury chain to open a hotel in São Paulo did so 10 years ago, according to Hogg Robinson. Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo registered the biggest room rate increases, rising as much as 19 percent last year.

“The development is challenging in Brazil,” Ms. Hicks said. “There are not enough hotel rooms for either the Olympics or the World Cup. Everybody could use a lot more hotels in Brazil. Like anything — it does not happen fast enough.”

The airlines, at least, hope they are moving fast enough. They plan more flights with more direct routes from the United States, and they are investing in more comfortable seats on their international flights along with tastier meals for business passengers.

United Airlines has unveiled a new service between Houston to Lagos, as well as between Washington and Guatemala City this year. Delta Air Lines will start daily nonstop flights between Seattle and Shanghai in June. Its partner in Europe, Air France, just introduced a new service between Paris and Kuala Lumpur. And Lufthansa will soon fly Airbus A380s between Frankfurt and Shanghai five times a week.

American Airlines is starting a new route this summer between Miami and Manaus, Brazil. It is also increasing the number of weekly flights between Dallas-Fort Worth and São Paulo, as well as increasing frequency of service to Brasilia and Belo Horizonte. The airline bought new Boeing 777s, which can fly long-range routes, and outfitted them with its newest lie-flat seats. Those planes, which will become the flagship of its fleet, will serve both London and São Paulo from New York.

Airlines are also expanding their international alliances to offer travelers seamless connections and more destinations than they could on their own.

Star Alliance, the largest of the three major global alliances, added Shenzhen Airlines, Avianca of Columbia and Eva Air of Taiwan. Separately, China’s Xiamen Airlines, Aerolinas Argentinas, Saudi Airlines and Lebanon’s Middle East Airlines all joined SkyTeam last year.

After months of speculation, Latam Airlines, which is the result of the merger between Lan Airlines of Chile and Tam Airlines of Brazil, said it would join the Oneworld alliance. The decision means that Tam will withdraw from the Star Alliance next year.

The megacarriers from the Persian Gulf, long reluctant to join in the alliance game, have also entered the fray lately. Qatar Airlines joined Oneworld last year. Etihad Airways has taken equity stakes in several airlines, including Air Berlin, Air Seychelles and Virgin Australia.

Even Emirates, which is based in Dubai and is the largest and most successful of the three gulf carriers, has entered into a partnership with Qantas Airlines, the Australian carrier.

The airports of Doha, Abu Dhabi, and Dubai, where the three carriers are based, now serve about 15 percent of all passenger traffic going from Asia to Europe, and from Europe to the South West Pacific region, including Australia, according to Amadeus, an air travel technology developer.

And while Paris, Frankfurt or London find it difficult to expand their airports to accommodate higher traffic, and often run at full capacity, Dubai has outlined plans for an entirely new airport to eventually replace the current one.

All this activity augurs well for business travelers. A recent survey of global routes by Amadeus found that the global industry had become more competitive over the last three years, with a higher percentage of air routes served by three or more airlines. The survey said the Asian market had the most competition among airlines, with 75 percent of air passenger volume served by three or more airlines.

“I am absolutely sure the future growth of our business is in Asia,” said Dr. Jurgen Weber, the chairman of Lufthansa. “Living standards are going up and it turns out that the Chinese like to travel even more than the Japanese do.”

And finally there is India, one of the world’s most populous nations with a vibrant economy, but a country that is still hobbled by poor investments and a cumbersome bureaucracy.

Ian Carter, the president for international development at Hilton, said that in most regions of the world, good infrastructure — airports, roads and highways — generally comes before the hotels.

“It is rarely the other way round, the exception being India,’ he said. “Generally speaking there are beautiful hotels there but getting there is like navigating an obstacle course.”
29 2013-05-01 “We’re packed in so tight, you wonder why you even need a seat belt,” said Addison Schonland, a partner at AirInsight.com, an aerospace consulting firm in Baltimore. “Perhaps there’s a future for flying on U.P.S. and FedEx — they can give you a roomy box, pick you up at your door and, best of all, get you there on time.”

Uncomfortable seats and limited leg room topped the list of air travel complaints, according to a 2013 survey by TripAdvisor, the world’s largest travel site. Prices for tickets and services, unpredictable flight delays, long security lines and other passengers rounded out the top five — and this was before the furloughs of air traffic controllers amid sequester-related budget cuts.

Complaints about airline service were up nearly 33 percent last year as airlines tried to squeeze profits from fewer flights with fuller planes. Load factors (passenger-miles as a percentage of available seat-miles) set a record last year, according to the Transportation Department. The result is crowded boarding areas, ferocious struggles for overhead space and straitjacket seating — all of which have sharply increased the stress-heightening “claustrophobia quotient” for passengers and crews, said Tim Winship, publisher of FrequentFlier.com.

Passengers aren’t the only ones complaining. A 2012 survey of international cabin crews by the global travel search site Skyscanner created a top 10 list of complaints that included passengers who snap their fingers to get attention, talk through the safety demo or ring the attendant bell to complain about the temperature onboard.

Extra fees for bags, meals and “priority” seats — can the coin-operated lavatory be far behind? — add to the annoyances for travelers. So does the tacit gag order against passengers in place since the security crackdown of 9/11; though precautions have eased a bit in recent years, they still make airports and planes feel to some like police states.  And so most passengers — excluding, of course, Alec Baldwin — turn off their electronic devices during takeoffs and landings upon command, even though there is little evidence cellphones and tablets pose safety issues.

Musicians who travel with bulky, expensive instruments encounter special problems in this environment. Delta Air Lines recently stripped the cellist Lynn Harrell of half-a-million frequent miles he had accumulated for himself and his nearly 300-year-old seat mate. “Cello Harrell” is welcome to have a seat , but can’t earn miles.

Another musician, Dave Carroll, became so frustrated when he couldn’t get any satisfaction after his instrument was damaged in transit that he filmed a music video, “United Breaks Guitars,” where he sings:

“You broke it, you should fix it

I should’ve flown with someone else

Or gone by car

His video has been viewed more than 13 million times on YouTube, and he has published a book by the same title on his battle with the airline.

In the current climate, business travel has become a bitter Darwinian struggle for leg space and breathing room. The great escape for grizzled veterans — frequent-flier perks — are worth less and less as airlines give away more miles through credit cards and other arrangements. The lounges that once offered a calm refuge from frenetic terminals are increasingly packed, Mr. Winship said, and the competition for seat upgrades means that those without the highest frequent-flier status are forced to face off with hoi polloi.

“An upgrade today doesn’t mean moving to first class, but getting to board the plane first so you can find some space for your bag,” said Mr. Schonland, who flew 62,000 miles in the first three months of 2013. “Having high status with an airline used to bring you privileges. Now it just means you have fewer limitations.”

This search for an edge among passengers may explain why a J. D. Power & Associates survey of 14,000 travelers last year found that 70 percent of passengers approved of fees for priority early boarding and more than half felt that the fees for seat upgrades were reasonable, even within coach (some seats have more leg room than others).

Problems do not end when passengers leave the unfriendly skies. The ground war often begins with directionally challenged cabdrivers who eventually ferry business travelers to hotels. Upon check-in, accommodations can feature alarm clocks that go off in the middle of the night; showers that only trickle; weak, expensive Wi-Fi; electrical outlets that seem part of a game of hide-and-seek; and free pets, including bedbugs and mold on drinking glasses.

When Jane Collins asked readers of her column on BlogHer.com to share their travel nightmares, one woman recalled opening her hotel room’s door to find her company’s chief operating officer tapping away on his laptop in his boxer shorts. He wasn’t a masher, just a hard-working guy sent to the wrong room. “Since then,” Ms. Collins said, “I have heard so many underwear and boxer-shorts stories that it must be quite common for hotels to mix up their room cards.”

And yet, even as business travelers are becoming inured to breakdowns in service, many strive for special treatment, perhaps in a quest to maintain some dignity. Kim Reicherter-Specht, an agent with The Travel Business, an affiliate of the corporate travel management company Tzell Travel, said frequent fliers accustomed to upgrades sometimes called her to complain from the purgatory that is coach. “I guess,” she said, “this way all the surrounding coach passengers know that, ‘Hey, I travel all the time, I was really supposed to be in first class, not in the back.’ ”

Her Tzell colleague Rina Anoussi said many of their clients wanted personal service for the material comforts it brings and the psychological boost. “Everybody likes to be treated well, making you feel how important you are,” she said. “If a hotel can give you a $1,200 room for $800, you think that people respect you and appreciate your position.”

Ms. Anoussi said this mind-set could lead to unusual requests or complaints. One client wanted a certain reading lamp and a specific kind of linens in his hotel rooms. Another insisted that all decorative pillows be removed from his room. “One client,” she said with a laugh, “would not press the button on the phone for the concierge, so he called me from halfway around the world to arrange a spa treatment and dinner booking in the hotel.”

Not all business travelers stay at five-star resorts. James Albright, who inspects radioactive materials for the state of North Carolina, is allotted $62 a night from the government for lodging. “I’ve never actually stayed in a place called the Bates Motel, but I’ve come close,” he said.

When he went to turn on the light in one room, he found a hole in the wall with one cockroach and two dangling u-shaped copper wires. “As long as you held them by the black plastic casing, it was easy to connect and disconnect them,” said Mr. Albright. “But it could get tricky when you needed light in the middle of the night.”

When he stepped into a room at another motel, he felt something under his steel-toed boot — a poisonous copperhead snake. When he lifted his leg, it slithered under the bed. “I started to go after it, and then sanity set in,” he recalled. The motel manager disputed his account, but assigned Mr. Albright to another room. “A little later I saw him going to the room wearing sandals, with no socks, carrying a broom and a dust pan. I thought, ‘Good luck with that.’ ”

Another morning he heard a knock at 7:30 a.m. He opened his door to find a young woman in a sheer Carolina blue negligee, asking if she could borrow his iron, much as someone else might ask for directions to the Waffle House. He obliged. “Don’t get me wrong,” he added. “I’m not complaining.”
30 2013-05-01 Earnings at Pfizer, one of the largest drug makers, soared 53 percent as the company benefited from a gain related to a joint venture with China. But the results fell short of Wall Street expectations, and the company lowered its forecast for the year.

Pfizer, which is based in New York, reported first-quarter net income of $2.75 billion, or 38 cents a share, up from $1.79 billion, or 28 cents a share, a year earlier. Excluding one-time items, adjusted income was 54 cents a share, a penny less than the forecast of analysts surveyed by FactSet.

Results were helped by a $490 million gain from the transfer of some product rights to its joint venture in China. In the year-ago quarter, Pfizer took charges totaling $1.66 billion for litigation, acquisition and other costs.

Revenue in the latest quarter was $13.5 billion, down 9 percent from $14.89 billion a year earlier and below analysts’ expectations. Sales rose 5 percent to $2.42 billion in emerging markets like China, a crucial growth market for the industry as American and European health programs try to hold down costs.

Pfizer also lowered its earnings forecast by 6 cents to $2.14 to $2.24 a share and its revenue forecast by $900 million to $55.3 billion to $57.3
31 2013-05-01 Those accused of minor offenses in the Bronx have all but lost their fundamental right to a trial, subjected to such hardship in pursuit of a hearing that it is often easiest to agree to a plea bargain....
32 2013-05-01 “A Delicate Truth,” John le Carré’s new thriller, is anything but delicate: it’s ponderous, heavy-handed and obvious — everything that his wonderful early Smiley novels, which traded in moral ambiguity and psychological nuance, were not.

Although Mr. le Carré hit his stride again in 2010 with “Our Kind of Traitor,” this new novel resembles two preachy recent books of his, “Absolute Friends” (2004) and “A Most Wanted Man” (2008). It is so hobbled by ideological fervor — a detestation for the way the United States and Britain have waged the war on terror — that it rapidly devolves into a didactic and ungainly pitting of good against evil with an utterly predictable story line.

As he’s done before, Mr. le Carré borrows a trick from Hitchcock to put his story in play, plopping two innocents into a deadly, high-stakes game that will jeopardize their lives. Kit is a middle-aged, midlevel British civil servant, “hauled from his desk in one of the more prosaic departments of Her Majesty’s Foreign and Commonwealth Office to be dispatched on a top-secret mission of acute sensitivity.”

Toby Bell, a 31-year-old rising star in the Foreign Office, is the private secretary (“minder and confidential counselor”) to a newly appointed minister named Fergus Quinn. Something shady happened in Quinn’s past, and Toby is charged with sticking “like glue to his new master” and making sure he doesn’t “make puddles” again. So when Quinn starts acting furtively, Toby secretly tape-records a top-secret meeting in his office — a decision that has the potential to unleash an international scandal involving British and American interests, and a nasty government cover-up.

Operation Wildlife, the mission that sucks in Kit and Toby, concerns the attempted capture and rendition of a supposed Qaeda kingpin code-named Punter. Just to make sure that the reader sees this operation and the plotting behind it as symbols of neo-imperialist greed, ideological certainty and an unconscionable lack of moral scruple, Mr. le Carré throws into the mix “a fly-by-night company of defense contractors trading under the name of Ethical Outcomes Incorporated”; the peddling of raw intelligence; and financing from one “Miss Maisie, born-again benefactress of America’s Republican far right, friend of the Tea Party” and “scourge of Islam.”

To make matters worse, Mr. le Carré does a truly maladroit job of dramatizing this story of corruption and governmental intrigue. There are pages and pages of exposition, and yards of awkward exchanges and strained monologues in which characters summarize their knowledge of events or set out hypotheses about what might have happened. For instance:

“Think on it, Toby: a rabble of American mercenaries, aided by British Special Forces in disguise and funded by the Republican evangelical right. And for good measure, the whole thing masterminded by a shady defense contractor in cahoots with a leftover group of fire-breathing neo-cons from our fast-dissolving New Labour leadership. And the dividend? The mangled corpses of an innocent Muslim woman and her baby daughter.”
33 2013-05-02 A couple of weeks ago, I took to Twitter with the following imperative: &#x201C;If you haven&#x2019;t seen the film Undefeated, you should asap. @IamCoachBill is a real #leader who draws out the true #character of his players.&#x201D;&#xa;   &#xa;...
34 2013-05-02 PEISSNER--Elias. The Sigma Phi Society at Union College honors the memory of Col. Elias Peissner, 119th NY Regiment, killed in action at Chancellorsville, May 2, 1963....
35 2013-05-02 WEIL--Susan Fenimore Cooper, died at her house in Cooperstown, NY, on Saturday, April 20, surrounded by her family. An artist noted for her watercolors of barns and farm houses, she was deeply committed to galleries in Cooperstown and in Katonah, ...
36 2013-05-02 LONDON &#x2014; As Big Oil increasingly becomes Big Gas, no major petroleum player may have more at stake in the shift than  Royal Dutch Shell .&#xa;   &#xa;More than any of its rivals, Royal Dutch Shell, which will report its quarterly results on...
37 2013-05-02 Recalling the shivery sensation of watching an African sunset and immediately hearing the pounding of tribal drums, the Austrian filmmaker Peter Kubelka sensed the drummers’ deep desire to communicate “the feeling that you are alive now.”

It’s a feeling that Mr. Kubelka embodies with every ecstatic minute of his movies — or, as he puts it in Martina Kudlacek’s exceptional documentary “Fragments of Kubelka,” every “now moment.” Engaging and thorough, Ms. Kudlacek’s film is a charismatic extended performance by a philosopher-poet who may change the way you think about art, time and raspberries.

A pillar of experimental cinema and film culture, the 79-year-old Mr. Kubelka has made only eight brief movies. But all are visceral, material celebrations of the medium of film, which seems to grow ever scarcer in the digital era. Raised in a rural village, he first turned heads as a hungry young artist in 1950s Vienna by fulfilling advertising commissions for a nightclub with black-and-white silhouettes overlaid with Pygmy music, and then, for a beer brand, scenes of drinking rendered through the use of complex staccato editing, sonic debris and intermittent color.

Mr. Kubelka’s efforts elicited such ire that he fled for a time to Sweden, but he continued his frame-by-frame artisanship into the 1960s, undeterred, with the handmade, strobelike short “Arnulf Rainer” (named for the painter), a minutely calibrated, filmic heartbeat. An assignment to chronicle a backslapping Austrian safari, “Unsere Afrikareise,” becomes in his hands an exquisite examination of the rituals of Eros, Thanatos and power. With “Pause!” (1977) he collaborated with Mr. Rainer to create a vibrant deconstruction of breathing and gesture, while his latest work, “Monument Film,” exhibited in last year’s New York Film Festival, involved both double projections and an installation of entire filmstrips tacked to the walls.

“Fragments of Kubelka” delves into these audiovisually inventive films and fills out his career with his roles in conceiving the Essential Cinema canon and the Invisible Cinema at Anthology Film Archives, as well as serving as a director of the Austrian Film Museum. But Mr. Kubelka, a longtime professor, addresses much more here than his own modernist oeuvre.

Like Stan Brakhage and Ken Jacobs, fellow pioneers of the avant-garde, the invariably vest-and-shirt-clad Mr. Kubelka spins out theories that run deep. An opening sequence at his kitchen table leads into an insightful, elemental discussion of tools, of which he has collected several ancient examples. Later, samples of his culinary lectures and clips from his 1970s cooking show on Channel 13 demonstrate his abiding belief in the primacy of food and even its superiority to language.
38 2013-05-02 What happens when an American family lives overseas and it’s time to apply for college? A writer who specializes in higher education and his daughter begin their search....
39 2013-05-02 Compensation growth has been relatively flat across the board in recent years. The biggest raises have been in transportation and higher education....
40 2013-05-02 The first in a series of slide shows about the U.S. Open Cup, which celebrates its 100th year of competition in 2013....
41 2013-05-02 The chef, who came to New York from Chicago about five years ago, is leaving both A Voce restaurants on Saturday....
42 2013-05-02 Ronald Perelman, a billionaire and longtime deal maker, has pledged $100 million to Columbia Business School, the university announced on Thursday....
43 2013-05-02 Some medical schools are looking beyond MCAT scores and grade point averages in search of a more diverse student class....
44 2013-05-02 An advertisement from Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's "The New New York Campaign."
45 2013-05-02 Starting this month, there is a $25 fee to file a notice that a debtor claim in a Chapter 11 case has been sold....
46 2013-05-02 A refund service from Citi has some caveats....
47 2013-05-02 Todd Newman, a onetime hedge fund trader at Diamondback Capital who was convicted of insider trading, was sentenced as part of the government’s widespread crackdown....
48 2013-05-02 An activist group asked a court to review a deal struck in 2010 between Goldman Sachs and British tax authorities that allowed the firm to avoid as much as $31 million in interest on unpaid taxes....
49 2013-05-02 Children born outside the United States were 48 percent less likely to suffer from allergic diseases like asthma, eczema, hay fever and food allergies than those born in America, a study found....
50 2013-05-02 The firm, Bowery Capital, plans to invest in business-oriented start-ups with a marketing or technology focus. It is led by Mike Brown Jr., who previously co-founded AOL Ventures....
51 2013-05-02 SAC Capital Advisors plans to begin clawing back compensation for employees convicted of insider trading, as part of moves aimed at improving compliance within the hedge fund, according to a letter to investors....
52 2013-05-02 Metropolitan Diary: A motorman offered to let a boy take the controls of a train, and the boy’s life was changed forever....
53 2013-05-02 The Knicks shot just 39.5 percent from the field and trailed for the entire second half, by as many as 15 points. The Celtics, a team missing its point guard and without a single elite player in his prime, shot 45.7 percent, their best mark of the series.

Anthony had his worst game of the series, scoring 22 points while missing 16 of 24 shots. J. R. Smith, back from his one-game suspension, was worse, missing his first 10 shots and finishing 3 for 14 from the field.

Smith did not hit his first shot until 2 minutes 49 seconds were left in the game — a 3-pointer that cut the Celtics’ lead to 85-76. But Jeff Green answered with a 3-pointer as Boston pulled away and fans began to groan.

With their season and perhaps their Celtics careers on the line, Paul Pierce and Kevin Garnett summoned every ounce of their Hall of Fame talent. Pierce scored just 16 points but hit several important shots in the second half. Garnett had 16 points, 18 rebounds and 5 assists in a throwback performance.

Green had a team-high 18 points and, along with Brandon Bass, helped hold Anthony in check.

After falling behind by 11-0 in the opening minutes, the Celtics dominated the rest of the game.

“Everybody just wanted to be in the fight tonight,” Celtics Coach Doc Rivers said, “and everyone did their part.”

The Knicks, despite taking a 3-0 lead nearly a week ago, are still searching for their first playoff series victory since 2000. And the Celtics are threatening to become the first team in N.B.A. history to win a series after losing the first three games. If the Celtics win Friday, Game 7 will be in New York on Sunday.

“Nobody said it was going to be easy, but now it’s a series,” Knicks Coach Mike Woodson said.

It is, in fact, an increasingly tense series.

On Friday, Smith elbowed Jason Terry in the chin, earning a one-game suspension that may have cost the Knicks a chance to sweep the series. On Wednesday, the tensions flared after the final buzzer as the Celtics’ Jordan Crawford taunted Anthony when the teams crossed paths near midcourt. Crawford was quickly restrained by teammates, and the incident ended quickly, with only words and no blows.

“Was not happy with it,” Rivers said. “Woody wasn’t happy with it.

“We don’t need any of that,” Rivers said, adding an expletive. “We really don’t. Come on, let’s just play basketball.”

Anthony literally waved off a question about the incident with his left hand, saying, “I’m not thinking about no Jordan Crawford.” He added, “I don’t even think he deserves for you to be typing right now.”

Anthony was dressed in a black T-shirt, black pants and a black hat, as if dressed for a funeral, which was no accident. The entire team wore black outfits to the game, at the suggestion of Kenyon Martin, a sartorial statement that backfired badly.

“Whatever shenanigans they want to pull, dressing all black, let them do that,” Green said dismissively. “We’re here to win games and not talk.”

Terry, who beat the Knicks in overtime of Game 4, was more direct. “You’re only buried if the casket is closed,” said Terry, who again spurred the Celtics with 17 points off the bench. “We opened the door just a little bit.”

In the Knicks’ locker room, Martin refused to revisit his talk of a funeral for the Celtics. But Smith sounded regretful, saying, “We were going to a funeral, but it looks like we got buried.”

He added: “Basketball is a humbling game. I’m done with this black stuff, man. I’m a superstitious person. I’m going to go back to my old routine.”

Smith enjoyed a booming ovation when he first entered the game, the crowd quickly forgiving his suspension. But Smith — perhaps out of sync or simply trying too hard to atone for his Game 4 absence — never found his shot.

Anthony was unspectacular through three quarters and hurt in the fourth, when Garnett yanked his left arm, appearing to injure Anthony’s shoulder. But Anthony stayed in the game and said afterward that he was fine.

It was up to Felton to keep the Knicks afloat, as he often has in this series. He scored 21 points and was often the Knicks’ best option, slicing through the defense for layups. But the Celtics held firm, dealing the Knicks their first home loss since March 7, a span of 12 games.

“Everybody’s going to be fine,” Felton said. “We got to settle down and get this thing over with.”

Before the game, Jason Kidd was presented with the Joe Dumars Trophy, given annually to the winner of the N.B.A.’s sportsmanship award, as voted on by fellow players across the league. Kidd — who also won the trophy last year, while with the Dallas Mavericks — is the first player to earn the honor in consecutive seasons and just the second to win it multiple times, joining Grant Hill, who has won it three times. ... Amar’e Stoudemire is “looking pretty good right now,” Mike Woodson said, and might be ready to practice soon and perhaps play in the second round.
54 2013-05-02 One man was walking home with groceries. Another was on a break from his job at a meat market. A third was walking down the street listening to headphones.

That is when the men say police officers confronted them, sometimes violently, searched their clothing and discovered small amounts of marijuana, according to a federal civil rights lawsuit that is expected to be filed on Thursday in United States District Court for the Southern District, in Manhattan.

The lawsuit, filed on behalf of five Bronx men, contends that New York City police officers routinely stop black and Latino men without cause and then charge them with low-level misdemeanors when their pockets are emptied and small amounts of marijuana are found.

In each of the cases, the amount of marijuana found on the men would have amounted to little more than noncriminal violations punishable by a fine of up to $100 for first-time offenders. But the lawsuit contends that the charging officers falsely claimed the marijuana was in public view, making it a low-level misdemeanor under Section 221.10 of the New York Penal Code, which allows for sentences of up to three months in jail.

Critics of the Police Department say the practice, which they call manufactured misdemeanors, is widespread. The arrests are often the outgrowth of the department’s stop-and-frisk program, which is being challenged in federal court for, among other things, disproportionately targeting black and Hispanic men.
55 2013-05-02 Last year we were heartened when doctors at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York refused to use an outrageously overpriced drug for treating advanced colorectal cancer because it was no better than a cheaper (but still costly) alternative. Neither did much to extend a patient’s life. Now the revolt against unjustifiably high cancer drug prices has been joined by more than 100 leukemia experts from more than 15 countries.

In a commentary published online by Blood, the journal of the American Society of Hematology, the experts questioned the morality 0f charging “astronomical” prices that may deprive some needy patients of access to drugs and could undermine the financial sustainability of the American health care system.

Of the 12 drugs approved by the Food and Drug Administration for various cancer conditions last year, the experts said, 11 were priced above $100,000 a year. They suggested that charging high prices for drugs that are needed to save lives or improve health is a form of profiteering like jacking up the price of necessities after a natural disaster.

The experts focused primarily on the cancer they know best, chronic myeloid leukemia, and the drugs used to treat it, whose costs, they said, can rise to $138,000 a year. By all accounts, these drugs, known as tyrosine kinase inhibitors, have been a rousing success in turning a death sentence into a chronic disease whose victims often live close to normal life spans. That does not mean the high prices are justifiable; the companies could settle for lower-but-still-substantial profits. An even stronger case can be made that extremely high prices of other cancer drugs providing minuscule benefits should be lowered.

The cancer experts plan to organize meetings with drug companies, patient groups, insurers and others to discuss why cancer drug prices are so high and what might be done to lower them. Let us hope their effort proves as effective as the Sloan-Kettering revolt, which forced the drugmaker to effectively cut its prices in half.
56 2013-05-02 “We have made great progress in our development work and have begun to discuss additional technical, pricing and schedule details with customers regarding the 777X, continuing to target entry into service near the end of the decade,” she said in statement. She added, “The timing of a decision to launch the program will depend on market response during this next phase of our discussions about the airplane.”

The 777, first flown in commercial service in 1995, holds a sweet spot in the growing commercial plane market. With only two engines, the various versions of the jet can carry more than 300 passengers over long distances, making it an economical workhorse for many airlines.

The move to upgrade the planes is an important moment for Boeing as it tries to retain its recent dominance in sales of twin-engine planes, which represent the vast middle of the size range for commercial jetliners.

Airlines are returning Boeing’s innovative 787 jets, which rely extensively on composite parts, to service after hazards with the lithium-ion batteries led to a three-month grounding. The 787s carry up to 250 people.

Airbus, Boeing’s main rival, is building the A350-XWB, its first jet making substantial use of composite parts, to compete with the 787 and the larger 777. Boeing also plans to build two larger versions of the 787.

Boeing would like to deliver the first of two new models of the 777 to customers by 2019.

The first model would probably seat about 400 people, while the second would hold about 350 passengers and might be ready in 2021.

Boeing has already said that General Electric will be the sole supplier of new, more fuel-efficient engines for the plane.

The airline Emirates, in particular, has pushed Boeing to move ahead with the 777, and hinted in early March that a decision was near.
57 2013-05-02 Companies hired the fewest employees in April in seven months while manufacturing growth slowed to a crawl, suggesting that the economy was weakening as tight fiscal policy in Washington started to hold back growth.

Businesses added 119,000 employees to payrolls last month, according to the ADP National Employment Report released on Wednesday, short of economists’ expectations for 150,000 jobs and the smallest gain since last September.

The slowdown in hiring was caused primarily by a combination of increased payroll taxes at the start of the year and the $85 billion in government spending cuts that took effect across the board in March, said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Analytics, which jointly developed the hiring report with ADP, a payroll processor.

“They are starting to bite and starting to weaken growth,” Mr. Zandi said. “It’s affecting all industries and almost all company sizes.”

The Federal Reserve also expressed its concern about economic growth on Wednesday and said it would continue to pursue its stimulus campaign, although it was ready to increase or decrease its efforts depending on the economy’s performance.

After accelerating in the first quarter, recent data suggested that overall economic growth cooled heading into the second quarter.
58 2013-05-02 On , 83 percent of respondents said they supported a path to citizenship for the 11 million immigrants already in the country illegally, as long as certain requirements — like paying fines and back , passing a criminal-background check and learning English — were met. And nearly 6 in 10 favored a combination of cutting spending and raising taxes to reduce the federal deficit, echoing the plans being pushed by Mr. Obama and Congressional Democrats.

Yet Americans are closely divided on whether Republicans would handle these issues better than Mr. Obama, the poll showed.

Both stricter gun laws and an immigration overhaul received strong support from Republicans, with 86 percent favoring background checks on all potential gun buyers, and 83 percent favoring a path to citizenship if certain requirements were met. Last month, a bipartisan group of eight senators proposed such immigration legislation, which would offer a 13-year path to citizenship, as well as require certain border security measures.

Only 41 percent of those surveyed approved of Mr. Obama’s handling of gun policy, and 52 percent disapproved. Americans were about evenly divided on whom to trust to make decisions about gun laws and an immigration overhaul — Republicans in Congress or the president.

Rick Buckman, 52, a Republican and an electrical engineer from , Pa., said that while he supported stricter gun legislation, he did not necessarily approve of the president’s approach. “I was really ticked off that the law didn’t pass,” Mr. Buckman said. “But I thought it was wrong of President Obama to get in front of the public and use people who had been damaged by gun violence as props.”

Mike Brady, 68, a Democrat and semiretired lawyer in Farmington Hills, Mich., viewed the Republicans’ opposition to the gun control legislation as self-serving. “Well, Obama’s trying his best to do the obvious right thing for the country, but he’s been roadblocked extensively for political reasons by people who even among themselves would take a different position,” he said. “So it’s cynical, unprincipled obstructionism.”

The poll also showed that 57 percent disapproved of Mr. Obama’s handling of the deficit. Thirty-six percent of respondents supported reducing the deficit by cutting federal spending.

Though churning support for his agenda remains a problem for the president, according to the poll, Congress is struggling with overcoming its own unfavorable image. Three-quarters of Americans disapprove of the way Congress is handling its job, the poll found, and nearly 9 in 10 said most members of Congress were more concerned with serving special interest groups than helping the people they represent.

“It’s like the gladiator sports, where the emperor keeps the people entertained, even though we’re starving,” said Roberta Hughes, 61, of Elizabeth City, N.C. “But real people are losing out in real ways when they enact the drama.”

The nationwide poll of 965 adults was conducted from April 24 to April 28 on land lines and cellular phones, with a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.

Nearly 6 in 10 Americans said they would vote for a candidate who did not share their views of immigration. Only 4 in 10 said they would vote for a candidate who did not share their views on gun control — seemingly making immigration a less controversial issue at the voting booth, for now, than gun legislation.

“Stricter gun laws might help with some of the out of control people who randomly go around shooting others or killing themselves,” said Debby Warnock, 44, an independent from Pueblo West, Colo. “I do favor background checks, though some of the people who have killed others had clean backgrounds.”

She added: “I personally don’t care whether Republicans or Democrats make the decisions as long as it’s in the best interest of our country.”
59 2013-05-02 “We are in the lead, and we want to stay in the lead,” Andrew Brown, Shell’s head of international exploration and production, said in a mid-April interview. Mr. Brown said Shell expected global demand for L.N.G. to grow rapidly in the coming years, doubling by 2025 to about 500 million tons a year, the equivalent of about 4.5 billion barrels of oil, making it by far the fastest-growing fuel.

The main reason for the anticipated growth is that natural gas is abundant. And because of the U.S shale gas boom, it has become relatively cheap — especially in North America, where prices lately have been in the range of $4 per million British thermal units, compared with highs of $13 as recently as 2005. The European spot price is around $10 per million B.T.U.'s, and the Asian price around $15; contract prices, often linked to oil, may be higher.

And because it burns much cleaner than either coal or oil, it will very likely stay in favor because its use can help lower the greenhouse gas emissions that are blamed for causing global warming.

To Mr. Brown’s frustration, not everyone gets the message. That is one reason Shell’s big L.N.G. bet is no sure thing.

The United States has wholeheartedly embraced gas. But Europe, mired in economic doldrums, has turned to coal, which is less expensive. This has driven down demand for gas in the region, which in recent decades had been one of the world’s biggest markets for natural gas via pipelines and L.N.G.

Europe does not have “the right balance” in terms of promoting gas, Mr. Brown said. About 75 percent of Shell’s L.N.G. goes to Asia.

As much as anyone, Mr. Brown is responsible for making Shell a gas broker to the world. Before taking his current job, Mr. Brown presided over more than $20 billion in investments in gargantuan installations for turning the extensive gas deposits in Qatar’s North Field into exports in the form of L.N.G. and liquid fuels like diesel.

To build on its lead, Shell agreed in February to buy the L.N.G. business of the Spanish company Repsol for about $6.7 billion. Some industry analysts considered the price too high. But according to Repsol, Shell had to outbid more than dozen competing offers.

The impact of Shell’s L.N.G. investments on the company’s financial performance will, of course, fluctuate from quarter to quarter. The first-quarter results on Thursday are expected to be hurt by a shutdown at a Nigerian L.N.G. plant caused by sabotage. And yet, Shell’s quarter was probably helped by high L.N.G. prices in Japan, which continues to import large quantities of gas since the Fukushima nuclear meltdown in 2011.

Analysts’ consensus forecast anticipates that Shell will report adjusted net profit of $6 billion for the quarter, an 8 percent gain over the preceding quarter, but an 18 percent decline from a year earlier, according to Peter Hutton of RBC Capital Markets in London.

On Tuesday, one of Shell’s main rivals, BP, reported a first-quarter profit of $4.2 billion after adjusting for inventory changes and one-time items, which handily beat analysts’ forecasts. BP, though, continues to emphasize its oil business.

Over the longer run, being a big player in L.N.G. is likely to help Shell outearn its peers, predicted Martijn Rats, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in London. The huge upfront investments of several billion dollars per gas liquefaction plant might seem prohibitive, Mr. Rats said, but those projects “generate large amounts of operating cash flow over two or three decades.”

While L.N.G. projects may not have as high potential returns as some oil fields, it is less risky to build giant gas installations because much of the output is sold in advance and the plants require relatively little capital expenditure once up and running. The steady cash from L.N.G., which at current prices produces profit margins of 10 percent to 15 percent, can be used to finance riskier activities.

One risk for Shell is that an anticipated export surge from North America leads to a plunge in the much higher prices for gas in Europe and Asia.

“Assuming that there are large volumes of L.N.G. exports from North America, the price differences between U.S. and Asia and especially U.S. and European gas are likely to be substantially reduced,” said Christopher Goncalves, an analyst at the Berkeley Research Group in Washington. But Mr. Goncalves said the differences would probably not disappear, because shipping and liquefaction added several dollars to the cost of L.N.G.

Shell is trying to further stoke demand for L.N.G. by making it easier to use the chilled gas as a transportation fuel. In Europe, the company recently chartered two L.N.G.-powered tanker barges to ply the busy Rhine waterway. It appears to be a first step in trying to persuade shippers to shift to L.N.G.-powered craft to transport diesel fuel or gasoline. According to the barges’ maker, Peters Shipyards in the Netherlands, they emit 25 percent less carbon dioxide than their oil-powered counterparts, while running much quieter.

Europe is tightening regulations on emissions from shipping, particularly in inland waterways, Mr. Rats said, and L.N.G.-powered ships are an economically sound means of complying. Last year Shell bought a Norwegian company, Gasnor, that supplies L.N.G. fuel to ships as a fuel. Shell is also building operations to provide fuel for L.N.G.-powered trucks along a route in western Canada and has plans to do the same in the United States.

So far the use of L.N.G. in transportation is negligible; about 16 million cars and trucks are powered by gas, which is just 1.5 percent of the world’s road vehicles. Morgan Stanley calculates that the gas now used by these cars and trucks replaces about 1.2 million barrels per day of oil products. Under optimistic forecasts, that use in 10 years could rise to 5.6 million barrels a day, or around 7 percent of 2012 oil supplies.

Meanwhile, Shell is trying to lower the capital cost of L.N.G. to make it feasible in even more remote offshore locations, by building liquefaction plants on what amount to enormous barges, bigger than aircraft carriers. The first such vessel destined for an offshore field in Western Australia is being built in a South Korean shipyard, where Mr. Brown says it can be done “cost effectively” — compared with Australia, where labor and other costs have recently risen sharply.

Shell wants to come up with a standard design for these floating L.N.G. plants and gradually introduce them around the world. A candidate for one of the vessels is a field called Abadi in Indonesia, where Shell has a 30 percent stake.

This week Shell and Woodside, an Australian company in which it owns a 24 percent stake, agreed to work on a floating L.N.G. plant for Woodside’s estimated $45 billion Browse offshore gas project in Australia.

And where is the L.N.G.-liquefaction building boom likely to be after Qatar and Australia? North America, Mr. Brown says.
60 2013-05-02 The Mean Screens of New York

Officials in the movie and television industry say the new gun control laws in New York could prevent them from using the lifelike assault weapons and high-capacity firearms they have employed in shows like “Law & Order: Special Victims Unit” and films like “The Dark Knight Rises.” The following are a few famous scenes and trailers from movies and shows that have prominently featured gun violence in New York.
61 2013-05-03 7:54 p.m. | Updated &#xa;&#xa;   &#xa;Steven A. Cohen, the founder of the hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors, sat for a deposition in a lawsuit in 2011 and acknowledged that he was unfamiliar with his firm&#x2019;s compliance and ethics policies on i...
62 2013-05-03 It is a scene that has played out over and over at the federal courthouse in Lower Manhattan.&#xa;   &#xa;A once high-flying hedge fund trader stands before a judge, often apologizing for his misdeeds. A high-priced defense lawyer asks for lenienc...
63 2013-05-03 Rose to Gold was purchased for $1.400 but she has shown the heart of a champion heading into the Kentucky Oaks on Friday....
64 2013-05-03 Feel the adjustment!...
65 2013-05-03 Are cops under-stopping black New Yorkers?...
66 2013-05-03 James Foley, an American journalist who has been missing in Syria, “was most likely abducted by a pro-regime militia group and subsequently turned over to Syrian government forces,” according to GlobalPost, the news site for which he was a fre...
67 2013-05-03 It’s not always about the money....
68 2013-05-03 For the 31st consecutive month, the country added jobs: 165,000 nonfarm payroll jobs in January, to be more precise. But employment still has a long way to go before returning to its prerecession level....
69 2013-05-03 The number of housing starts has surged – nearly doubling in the last two years – but employment in residential construction has barely budged....
70 2013-05-03 Are there any studies on the long-term &#8212; 10-plus years &#8212; use of S.S.R.I.&#8217;s to treat depression? Dr. Richard A. Friedman responds to reader questions....
71 2013-05-03 The stations agreed to pay a total of $167,850 in fines for raising prices after Hurricane Sandy; investigations are still pending against dozens of other stations....
72 2013-05-03 Off the Charts: For Business, a Strong Recovery

The recovery since the recession that ended in 2009 has been the weakest in decades, as measured by the change in gross domestic product. That is mainly due to a shrinking government sector and to relatively slow growth in consumer spending. But business investment has risen at an impressive rate. Corporate profits are higher than in three previous recoveries, and taxes on those profits are lower.
73 2013-05-03 Brian Krzanich takes over a company dominant in PC chips but lagging in making chips for hot products like smart phones and tablets, Quentin Hardy reports in The New York Times....
74 2013-05-03 India’s largest mobile phone company, by subscribers, has a huge debt load and has not turned a profit in Africa....
75 2013-05-03 Both job creation and deficit reduction are imperiled by current American fiscal policy....
76 2013-05-03 It’s clear that top fashion designers aspire to a presence at Bergdorf Goodman, the high-end Manhattan department store, given the numbingly relentless litany of encomiums in Matthew Miele’s documentary “Scatter My Ashes at Bergdorf’s.” In this glossy, fawning valentine to conspicuous consumption (the title derives from a Victoria Roberts cartoon in The New Yorker), the stars — Karl Lagerfeld, Giorgio Armani, the Olsen twins, Marc Jacobs, Manolo Blahnik, Michael Kors and others — dutifully pay tribute. Thank heaven for a bubble-popping Joan Rivers, who blithely observes, “People who take fashion seriously are idiots.”

Of greatest interest here are portraits of Bergdorf players: Linda Fargo, the sensible, influential and straight-talking if flamboyantly attired buyer; Betty Halbreich, a winningly acerbic in-house personal shopper; and David Hoey, who creates the renowned store windows. (The preparation of his stunning 2011 holiday displays is a highlight; passers-by take pictures of them like awe-struck peasants outside a castle.)

Almost absent is conflict, except for a cursory account of recessionary speed bumps, the loss of clients after the Bernie Madoff scandal and the frustration of designers denied entry into the collections. The end credits offer a number from Barbra Streisand’s 1965 TV special in which she sings and dances in Bergdorf’s after hours. It’s a sequence with more charm than the rest of this brazen screen plug.

“Scatter My Ashes at Bergdorf’s” is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned) for a brief sexual reference.
77 2013-05-03 Michael Meneses did not seem like the type of guy who would end up in federal court, pleading not guilty to charges of computer hacking.

For years he commuted from his home in Smithtown, N.Y., on Long Island, to his job as a software programmer at Spellman High Voltage Electronics Corporation, a manufacturer of industrial power supplies in nearby Hauppage. His specialty was known as enterprise resource planning.

But after Mr. Meneses was passed over for promotions, he was upset enough to announce his resignation, giving two weeks’ notice. Before his final day in January 2012, colleagues caught him copying files from his computer to a flash drive, the authorities said. They cut off his access to company servers.

Soon odd things started happening. Employees at Spellman began reporting that they were unable to process routine transactions and were receiving error messages. An applicant for his old position received an e-mail from an anonymous address, warning him, “Don’t accept any position.” And the company’s business calendar was changed by a month, throwing production and finance operations into disorder.

That account was laid out by federal prosecutors on Thursday, who said that Mr. Meneses, using stolen passwords and his high-level knowledge of the computer system, had hacked Spellman’s servers and in three weeks caused enough mayhem to cost his former employer more than $90,000. “The defendant engaged in a 21st-century campaign of cyber-vandalism and high-tech revenge,” said Loretta E. Lynch, the United States attorney for the Eastern District. Mr. Meneses was arrested Thursday.

Investigators traced the e-mail account used to warn off the applicant for his old job to an Internet protocol address that belonged to Mr. Meneses’s new employer. They traced the changes to the company calendar to a hotel in Cary, N.C., a short distance from Mr. Meneses’s new job. Records from the hotel showed that he was staying there at the time of the online attack.
78 2013-05-03 Small-business owners took aim on Thursday at the New York City Council’s package of antismoking legislation, including a proposal to raise the minimum age to purchase cigarettes to 21.

Representatives of bodegas and convenience stores complained at a Council hearing in Lower Manhattan that the proposals would make cigarettes so hard to get from legitimate businesses that they would drive customers into the arms of bootleg distributors, including organized crime.

“This is bad for New York,” Chong Sik Lee, president of the Korean-American Grocers Association of New York, said at the hearing. Referring to the many immigrant retailers in his organization, he added, “How may they build up business they can pass on to their children?”

The Council is considering legislation that would make it illegal for stores to sell cigarettes to anyone under 21, up from 18. But smoking or possessing cigarettes under that age would not be illegal. It is also considering barring retailers from openly displaying cigarettes and other tobacco products; raising penalties when retailers are found in possession of illegal cigarettes; setting a minimum price of $10.50 per pack of cigarettes or little cigars and barring discounts of tobacco products.

Thursday’s hearing was the first chance for opponents of the proposed laws to be heard since Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker and a Democratic mayoral candidate, announced the proposed age minimum. Ms. Quinn, however, left before opponents had a chance to speak.
79 2013-05-03 A British businessman who sold fake bomb detectors was sentenced to 10 years in prison for fraud on Thursday. The businessman, James McCormick, made an estimated $77.8 million from the sales of his nonworking detectors, which were based on a novelty golf ball finder, to countries like Iraq and to international agencies. Mr. McCormick claimed that the devices, which sold for up to $42,000 each, were able to find explosives and drugs under water and from the air. But they “lacked any grounding in science,”said a prosecutor, Richard Whittam.
80 2013-05-03 WASHINGTON — The Obama administration lifted a sweeping ban on visas for officials from Myanmar on Thursday, further easing sanctions against the country despite growing fears that ethnic violence is threatening its nascent steps toward democracy.

Lifting the ban, first imposed in 1996, is the latest effort by the administration to reward Myanmar after its president, Thein Sein, began to open its political system and economy in 2011 after decades of military rule.

The State Department said in a statement that the move was intended “to strengthen and encourage further reform” in Myanmar, also known as a matter of American policy by its former name, Burma. The United States last year lifted most sanctions that limited trade between the two countries, though military commanders and companies affiliated with the military still face sanctions targeting human-rights abuses, drug trafficking and arms sales. Although the State Department never published the names of those banned, the restrictions on traveling to the United States applied to hundreds of military officers and other officials who were part of the country’s military dictatorship, as well as their families.

Mr. Thein Sein, removed from the list of banned officials last year, is scheduled to meet Mr. Obama during his first visit to Washington this month, according to administration and Congressional officials. He has been traveling extensively to encourage investment, but continues to face questions about the depth of changes. A United Nations envoy in Geneva warned in March that while Myanmar had made significant progress, the eruption of mob violence against Muslims and continuing civil wars were undermining its transition to democracy. In central Myanmar, a man was killed Wednesday in a new outbreak of sectarian violence, in which Buddhist mobs destroyed property owned by Muslims, Reuters reported.

The euphoria that has greeted the release of political prisoners, most prominently Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, who now serves in Parliament, and the lifting of many draconian laws on unions and the media over the last two years has increasingly faded. State Department officials declined to discuss publicly those concerns or the reasons for lifting the travel ban now.

The European Union lifted most of its sanctions against Myanmar last month, a move that was criticized as premature by Human Rights Watch. In Washington, human rights advocates and lawmakers have supported the administration’s strategy to ease sanctions step by step, but some worry that Myanmar was no longer doing enough to merit more rewards. “While I’m still waiting to hear details of these and other potential moves,” Representative Joseph Crowley, a Democrat from New York, said in a statement, “I urge the administration to stick to its policy of action for action.”
81 2013-05-03 Pennsylvania and are among the states that have already agreed to pay for service, citing the need to ease road , spur economic development and remain connected to the Northeast line. But other states, like , are still debating what to do. In most cases, the routes run at a loss, say state officials, who view them more as an infrastructure investment like a highway.

The cost-sharing arrangement between Amtrak and the states, mandated by a 2008 law, is designed to reduce federal support for Amtrak, which has received nearly $40 billion in taxpayer subsidies since its founding in 1971, and has never made a profit. Last year, the railroad got about $1.4 billion in federal money for its operations, rail maintenance and equipment purchases.

Last year, Amtrak — which says ticket prices and fees cover about 88 percent of its operating costs — lost more than $450 million, mostly a result of constant maintenance of tracks and bridges that are decades old. Its long-distance routes also contribute to the losses, but they are not included in the cost-sharing program because they cross so many states.

Joseph H. Boardman, Amtrak’s president, said sharing costs with states would reduce the need to ask Congress to cover operating expenses and make financing for rail service more uniform. He said the federal operating subsidy last year of $466 million was down from a peak of $755 million in 2004, a result of cost sharing with some states, as well as record ridership and revenues.

“It’s what Congress has been doing for years, that is to push costs down to the state and local level,” Mr. Boardman said. “It’s not going to be a windfall for Amtrak, but it will help reduce our costs.”

The , the Washington policy research group, attributed some of the improvement in the railroad’s finances to its partnership with 15 states that pay at least part of the expenses on 21 train routes. Last year, states paid Amtrak about $180 million to operate trains.

Virginia, which began contracting with Amtrak for a train between Lynchburg and Washington in 2009, recently added a route to from and passed legislation to finance it.

“We see good rail service as part of our overall transportation plans to reduce congestion on the highways, and the routes add to the economic vitality of our communities,” said Kevin B. Page, the chief operating officer of the Virginia Department of Rail and Public Transportation.

Virginia officials said Amtrak spent over $100 million on goods and services in the state last year. The railroad also employed 864 residents, adding $73 million in wages.

Pennsylvania, which spends about $9 million a year for Amtrak service connecting Harrisburg and Philadelphia, recently agreed to pay an additional $3.8 million a year for the Pittsburgh-to-Harrisburg service. State officials worried about picking up the cost for the line, which averages about 400 riders a day. But they agreed to pay the cost after local officials like Huntingdon’s mayor staged rallies to support the route and Amtrak lowered its cost estimates.

“We always saw the line as important to the communities along the route and an integral cog in the regional transportation system. It was just a matter of cost, " said Erin Waters-Trasatt, a spokeswoman for the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation. “We feel comfortable with the agreement we’ve reached with Amtrak.”

In Indiana, state officials are studying whether to kick in $4 million to $5 million a year to continue the Hoosier State train between and .

Will Wingfield, a spokesman for the Indiana Department of Transportation, said the state was in the process of hiring a consultant to evaluate the service.

In , officials are weighing whether to pay an additional $20 million to $25 million a year to keep service between and .

Transportation experts like Robert Puentes, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who was a co-author of its Amtrak study, said he expected all the states to eventually agree to the cost-sharing arrangement, which will provide more money to upgrade tracks and improve stations.

“The larger implication is that it will have a positive impact on Amtrak’s budget and improve passenger rail service,” Mr. Puentes said.

He said Congress, Amtrak and the states should consider developing a cost-sharing plan for the money-losing long-distance routes, on which the railroad loses about $614 million a year. Cost sharing on longer routes could reduce Amtrak’s dependence on federal subsidies by $800 million a year, Mr. Puentes said.

“It’s not something we would endorse,” said Mr. Boardman, the Amtrak president. “Some states might pay, while others might not. That would leave gaps in the network and impact overall service.”
82 2013-05-03 Stacey Hodge, a second-year teacher at a Dallas Independent School District middle school, recently was rated as “exceeding expectations” in four of the state’s criteria, and “proficient” in the others.

A space on the evaluation form for comments about “areas to address” was blank.

“I can’t go any higher than exceeds expectations,” she said. “I think I do a really good job, but am I where I need to be?”

Michele Moore, an associate commissioner at the Texas Education Agency, said the lack of feedback was a problem. At the start of the current school year, the agency quietly began testing two new evaluation programs at 83 campuses across the state that included more frequent observations.

But neither of those programs included a strong emphasis on objective measures of student performance, which many advocates view as essential. And with overwhelming support among state lawmakers to scale back standardized testing in response to widespread complaints from parents, efforts in the Legislature to tie evaluations to such tests have hit a roadblock.

“The objective use of student performance has been a challenging one, given the role the debate over standardized tests has played,” said John Fitzpatrick, the executive director of Educate Texas, a nonprofit education advocacy group.

In 2011, Mr. Fitzpatrick’s organization launched the Texas Teaching Commission, which includes more than two dozen educators, to develop policy recommendations for improving teacher performance.

While some of those recommendations, like strengthening requirements for educator certification programs, have gained traction, legislation emphasizing student achievement as part of teacher evaluations has stalled.

The Senate recently passed a bill from Education Chairman Dan Patrick, Republican of Houston, focused on teacher appraisal and preparation. But in negotiations before the proposal came to the floor, Mr. Patrick dropped a section that would have weighted student achievement heavily in teacher evaluations, because of fears that it would use standardized test performance as a measurement.

During debate on the floor, Senator Wendy Davis, Democrat of Fort Worth, expressed reservations about a test-based component. Ms. Davis noted extensive testimony that lawmakers had heard about concerns with the testing system, and said that the legislation ran the risk of “placing yet higher stakes on test scores.” Until lawmakers are convinced the statewide tests can accurately reflect student learning and growth, she said, they should “resist modifying the current evaluation system.”

A similar House proposal is still lingering in committee.

Texas is not alone in debating how teachers should be evaluated, said Sandi Jacobs, the managing director for state policy at the National Council on Teacher Quality.

“Our teacher evaluation systems have not been very successful,” Ms. Jacobs said. “We haven’t had good information to identify our superstars or our chronic underperformers.”

Though about 20 states have moved toward incorporating test scores in teacher evaluations in the past five years, it is too early for a consensus about the best approach, she said.

Part of the challenge, Ms. Jacobs said, is identifying measures of learning that can be used for students in grades and subjects where standardized tests are not given. Florida is facing a federal lawsuit over its use of test scores in evaluations for teachers based on subjects or students they do not teach.

Texas students begin taking state standardized exams in third grade. Before they reach high school, they are tested each year in reading and math, but are tested less frequently in subjects like science, writing and social studies. The Legislature is considering a proposal that would reduce the number of exams students must take in high school to 5 from the current 15.

Ms. Jacobs also said a cultural change was needed to encourage school administrators to evaluate educators in more meaningful ways.

Teachers’ groups have opposed the use of standardized test scores in evaluations. A recommendation for a test-based measure was a major sticking point for representatives from the four major state teacher associations participating in the Teaching Commission’s report. They refused to sign on to the final result.

Holly Eaton, a lawyer with the Texas Classroom Teachers Association, said that because of questions about the validity of evaluations based on test scores, and given problems in other states, there was no reason to overhaul the current framework. “Our members do enjoy and value input and feedback, particularly from their principal,” she said. “They want their principal in their classrooms as often as possible, but that is a less formal kind of system.”

Though most Texas school districts use the state-recommended framework, some, including the Houston district, the state’s largest, have developed their own. Houston developed an incentive pay system linked to test scores in the 1990s under Superintendent Rod Paige, who later became President George W. Bush’s secretary of education.

Janet Gray, an American history teacher in her 18th year in the district, said that she recognized a need for objective measures to evaluate teachers. But she said that to be fair, such measures had to assess the content being taught. Because Ms. Gray teaches a subject that is not tested by the state every year, part of her evaluation is based on a formula that considers results of a seventh-grade national standardized exam that does not cover state history, which Texas students learn that year, along with an eighth-grade state exam after they complete her course.

“I don’t inherently have a problem with test scores or student achievement being a part of evaluations,” she said. “There just needs to be a transparent way to figure out what that is.”
83 2013-05-03 Prosecutors had charged that the defendants, Jia Hou, a former Liu campaign treasurer, and Xing Wu Pan, a fund-raiser, relied on so-called straw donors — people whose contributions are reimbursed by others — to raise money and use some of it to obtain city matching funds.

Mr. Pan was found guilty of conspiracy to commit wire fraud and attempted wire fraud in relation to a straw-donor scheme.

Ms. Hou, 26, was acquitted of conspiracy, but was convicted for her role in a straw-donor scheme. She was also found guilty of lying to federal agents and obstruction of justice. Most of the counts carry 20-year maximum terms, although the defendants seem likely to receive much less time.

One juror said by phone that the deliberations had been collegial, that “everybody had a chance to speak,” and that there were “one or two people that had questions” early on. The verdict came after some seven hours of deliberations.

Asked about a prosecutor’s claim in closing arguments that Mr. Liu had known of the illegal scheme, the juror, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said, “It didn’t really matter to us.”

“Nobody was influenced by anything about the politics side of things,” the juror said. “They were very serious crimes and we just wanted to treat it as such.”

Preet Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan, said Ms. Hou and Mr. Pan “stuck a knife into the heart of New York City’s campaign finance law by violating the prohibition against illegal campaign contributions.”

A former boyfriend of Ms. Hou, for example, testified that she offered to reimburse him if he contributed $500 to the campaign in July 2011, a time when Liu aides were trying to meet an internal $1 million fund-raising goal.

In his statement, Mr. Liu ignored Mr. Pan and singled out Ms. Hou for praise, saying that he continued to “believe in Jenny being a good person and exceptional individual.”

Mr. Pan had organized a fund-raising event in Chinatown in August 2011 at the request of a purported businessman from Texas who called himself Richard Kong and said he would donate $16,000, which exceeded the $4,950 limit for individuals, through straw donors recruited by Mr. Pan.

Mr. Kong claimed to Mr. Pan, a New Jersey businessman who is in his 40s, that he wanted to make the donation because he hoped to open a chain of restaurants in New York and needed a friend in City Hall.

Mr. Kong was actually an undercover F.B.I. agent who recorded his discussions with Mr. Pan and even captured a video of Mr. Liu hugging Mr. Pan as the comptroller arrived at the event. “I want to see you ... as the next mayor,” the undercover agent told Mr. Liu at the event, according to a transcript introduced at trial.

At one point, Mr. Pan tells Mr. Liu that the function is “Richard’s event,” which Mr. Pan later told the Federal Bureau of Investigation was to signal that “Richard Kong” was behind the donations, although Mr. Pan said he was not sure Mr. Liu had taken his meaning that way.

A prosecutor, Justin Anderson, said in a closing argument that Mr. Liu had to have understood Mr. Pan’s meaning, since Mr. Kong’s stated goal was to gain access to Mr. Liu.

“It would defeat the whole purpose of the straw-donor scheme if the candidate doesn’t know where the money’s coming from,” Mr. Anderson said. The whole point, he said, was “to get credit for it.”

Mr. Liu’s lawyer, Paul Shechtman, said on Tuesday that “there was not a shred of evidence at the trial or in the last three years that John Liu knew about any wrongdoing that might be connected to his campaign.”

Ms. Hou and Mr. Pan showed no emotion as the verdict was announced in court about 5 p.m. Afterward, Ms. Hou’s lawyer, Gerald B. Lefcourt, said: “We’re obviously very disappointed. We think it is an unjust verdict.”

“Unfortunately, she got caught in the middle of an obsessive quest for John Liu that went on for five years and is apparently still going on,” he said.

Mr. Pan’s lawyer, Irwin Rochman, echoing what he had said in his summation, called his client “collateral damage in the government’s war against John Liu.”

Both lawyers said their clients would appeal. “There were complicated legal issues in the case, I think, that deserve consideration,” Mr. Rochman added.

Judge Richard J. Sullivan said he would impose sentence on Sept. 20.
84 2013-05-03 The report Thursday said the union’s drive to strengthen the regulation of financial services after the crash had produced “legislative proposals that are particularly damaging for London’s financial services industry.”

The proposed transaction tax “would affect London disproportionally as it is a major hub for euro trading,” it added.

The tax has joined a growing list of financial issues dividing the Continent and the British government. Britain says the country needs a looser relationship with the bloc if it is to stay a member.

Under the proposal, a tax would be imposed of at least one-tenth of 1 percent of the value of all transactions between financial institutions. Derivatives contracts would be taxed at the rate of one-hundredth of 1 percent. The European Commission has estimated the tax could raise 30 billion euros to 35 billion euros, or $39 billion to $46 billion, a year.

Britain refused to sign on to the proposal. But 11 other European Union nations agreed to go ahead: France, Germany, Belgium, Austria, Slovenia, Portugal, Greece, Slovakia, Italy, Spain and Estonia. Transactions would be taxed if there were “an established economic link” between a financial institution and the group of 11 nations — the so-called Financial Transaction Tax-zone, or F.T.T. That would include branches of banks operating outside the zone.

Last month, the British government decided to challenge the tax in Europe’s highest court, the European Court of Justice, even though no detailed agreement was in place among those countries that wanted to implement it.

Emer Traynor, spokeswoman for the European commissioner for taxation, Algirdas Semeta, said she was “fully confident that the F.T.T. as proposed is legally robust. It is fully in line with international tax laws and broad principles already widely used.”

The tax is just one of several disputes between Britain and the European Union about financial services. Earlier this year Britain found itself isolated over moves to cap bankers’ bonuses. Britain has a separate legal challenge against the European Central Bank over its plans to prevent some euro-denominated securities from being cleared outside the 17 European Union countries that share the euro — in that way excluding Britain, which has kept its own currency.

The British government is also resisting new rules to rehabilitate troubled banks, which would mean creating national funds to pay for bank resolution costs. And a long-standing plan to harmonize the base on which corporate tax is levied in Europe is also a point of contention between Britain and Brussels.

Tension with Brussels has grown during an economic crisis seen by many continental Europeans as the product of freewheeling financial services. The result was pressure for tougher regulation and, in the case of the Robin Hood tax, measures to recoup cash from the industry. The euro zone’s debt crisis is also forcing the 17 European Union countries that use the currency to integrate more closely in areas like banking, raising issues for member states outside the monetary union.

“On the one hand it shows the dangers of disengaging from the E.U.,” said Philip Whyte, senior research fellow at the Center for European Reform, a research institute in London, who argues that Britain feels increasingly beleaguered on issues related to financial services.

“At the same time, it gives a lot of ammunition to those saying that the E.U. is a hostile force to Britain. ‘Let’s get out and develop closer links with faster-developing parts of the world economy.’ ”
85 2013-05-03 The borrowings were at incredibly low interest rates, as low as 0.51 percent for three-year notes and topping out at 3.88 percent for 30-year bonds. And those interest payments will be tax-deductible.

Isn’t that nice of the government? Borrow money to avoid paying taxes, and reduce your tax bill even further.

Could this become the incident that brings on public outrage over our inequitable corporate tax system? Some companies actually pay something close to the nominal 35 percent United States corporate income tax rate. Those unfortunate companies tend to be in businesses like retailing. But companies with a lot of intellectual property — notably technology and pharmaceutical companies — get away with paying a fraction of that amount, if they pay any taxes at all.

Anger at such tax avoidance — we’re talking about presumably legal tax strategies, by the way — has been boiling in Europe, particularly in Britain.

It got so bad that late last year Starbucks promised to pay an extra £10 million — about $16 million — in 2013 and 2014 above what it would normally have had to pay in British income taxes. What it would normally have paid is zero, because Starbucks claims its British subsidiary loses money. Of course, that subsidiary pays a lot for coffee sold to it by a profitable Starbucks subsidiary in Switzerland, and pays a large royalty for the right to use the company’s intellectual property to another subsidiary in the Netherlands. Starbucks said it understood that its customers were angry that it paid no taxes in Britain.

Starbucks could get away with paying no taxes in Britain, and Apple can get away with paying little in the United States relative to the profits it makes, thanks to what Edward D. Kleinbard, a law professor at the University of Southern California and a former chief of staff at the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation, calls “stateless income,” in which multinational companies arrange to direct the bulk of their profits to low-tax or no-tax jurisdictions in which they may actually have only minimal operations.

Transfer pricing is an issue in all multinational companies and can be used to move profits from one country to another, but it is especially hard for countries to monitor prices on intellectual property, like patents and copyrights. There is unlikely to be a real market for that information, so challenging a company’s pricing is difficult.

“It is easy to transfer the intellectual property to tax havens at a low price,” said Martin A. Sullivan, the chief economist of Tax Analysts, the publisher of Tax Notes. “When a foreign subsidiary pays a low price for this property, and collects royalties, it will have big profits.”

The United States, at least theoretically, taxes companies on their global profits. But taxes on overseas income are deferred until the profits are sent back to the United States.

The company makes no secret of the fact it has not paid taxes on a large part of its profits. “We are continuing to generate significant cash offshore and repatriating this cash will result in significant tax consequences under current U.S. tax law,” the company’s chief financial officer, Peter Oppenheimer, said last week.

A company spokesman says the company paid $6 billion in federal income taxes last year, and “several billion dollars in income taxes within the U.S. in 2011.” It is a testament to how profitable the company is that it would still face “significant tax consequences” if it used the cash it has to buy back stock.

There is something ridiculous about a tax system that encourages an American company to invest abroad rather than in the United States. But that is what we have.

“The fundamental problem we have in trying to tax corporations is that corporations are global,” says Eric Toder, co-director of the Tax Policy Center in Washington. “It is very, very hard for national entities to tax entities that are global, particularly when it is hard to know where their income originates.”

In principle, there are two ways the United States could get out of the current mess. The first, proposed by President John F. Kennedy more than 50 years ago, is to end the deferral. Companies would owe taxes on profits when they made them. There would be, of course, credits for taxes paid overseas, but if a company made money and did not otherwise pay taxes on it, it would owe them to the United States. After it paid the taxes, it could move the money wherever it wished without tax consequences.

President Obama has not gone that far, but he has suggested immediate taxation of foreign profits earned in tax havens, defined as countries with very low tax rates.

Some international companies hate that idea, of course. They warn that we would risk making American multinational corporations uncompetitive with other multinationals, and perhaps encourage some of them to change nationality.

The other way is to move to what is called a territorial system, one in which countries tax only profits earned in those countries. Apple would then be free to bring the money home whenever it wanted, tax-free. But without doing something about the ease with which companies manage to claim profits are made wherever it is most convenient, that would simply be a recipe for giving up on collecting tax revenue. Companies around the world have done a good job of persuading countries to lower tax rates. Back in the 1980s, the American corporate tax rate of 34 percent was among the lowest in the world. Now the 35 percent United States tax rate on corporate income is among the highest. In this country, notwithstanding the high rate, the corporate income tax now brings in about 18 percent of all income tax revenue, with individuals paying the rest. That is half the share corporations paid when Dwight Eisenhower was president.

There seems to be something of a consensus developing around the idea that the United States rate should be lowered. Both President Obama and Representative Dave Camp, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, say they want to do that without reducing government revenue, but they disagree on most details. Mr. Camp likes the territorial idea, but he concedes that we would have to do something about the ease with which companies move income from country to country.

In fact, the need for such a rate reduction is not as clear as it might be. Reuven Avi-Yonah, a tax law professor at the University of Michigan, studied the taxes paid by the 100 largest American and European multinationals and found that, on average, the Americans paid lower rates.

Professor Avi-Yonah says he thinks that the developed countries should cooperate and enact similar rules. He compares that to the American Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which makes it illegal for American companies to bribe foreign governments. American companies used to say that was unfair, but now most developed countries have similar laws.

Something like that may be growing a little more likely. At the request of the Group of 20 governments, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development is doing a study called BEPS, for Base Erosion and Profit Shifting.

In Europe, where budget problems have grown drastically, there seems to be a growing understanding that governments must raise a certain amount of revenue and a belief that if one sector manages to avoid paying taxes, that means other sectors must pay more. That led to the anti-Starbucks demonstrations in Britain. In this country, there is little sign of similar attitudes, let alone a belief that those who find ways to twist the laws to avoid paying taxes are being unpatriotic.

If that belief were to become widespread, Apple and similar companies might find that their success in avoiding taxes was making them unpopular with other taxpayers — people whom Apple wants to be its customers.
86 2013-05-03 Reflecting the continuing impasse between the sides, Mr. Erekat added that he hoped that Mr. Netanyahu would specify his willingness “for two states on the 1967 lines.”

Mr. Netanyahu’s remarks in favor of a referendum, widely viewed as a nod to rightists in his governing coalition who are pressing for new legislation on the matter, came at the start of a meeting in Jerusalem with Foreign Minister Didier Burkhalter of Switzerland.

“There are a few things that I think we can learn from you, and one of them is the referendum,” Mr. Netanyahu told Mr. Burkhalter. “Not for every issue; not on every point of debate; but on one thing: that is, if we get to a peace agreement with the Palestinians, I’d like to bring it to a referendum. And I’d like to talk to you about your experiences with that, and many other things.”

Mr. Burkhalter replied that Mr. Netanyahu was welcome to visit Switzerland any time and learn about that country’s experience with referendums.

Left-leaning Israeli supporters of a peace deal have long argued that a referendum could impede the leadership’s ability to seal a treaty with Palestinians.

Ms. Livni, a former foreign minister and chief negotiator with the Palestinians under the government led by Ehud Olmert, Mr. Netanyahu’s predecessor, has publicly opposed the idea of a referendum. Ms. Livni now leads her own party, which is considered dovish on peace issues. She told Israel’s Army Radio a few days ago, “At the moment, a referendum is a way to forestall decisions approved by the Parliament and the cabinet.”

Israeli supporters of a referendum, including many who oppose a large-scale Israeli withdrawal from the occupied territories, argue that a popular vote is an important means of establishing national consensus and legitimacy for what would inevitably be a hotly contested accord involving the removal of tens of thousands of Israeli settlers from their West Bank homes.

Israel Harel, a leading intellectual of the settlement movement, wrote of the settlers on Thursday in Haaretz, a liberal Israeli newspaper, “On such a crucial matter of their very existence and of their Jewish and Zionist identity and faith they will not agree to their own removal unless they are convinced that it truly is the will of the nation.”

The debate over the referendum was rekindled in Israel after reports that Naftali Bennett, a minister whose Jewish Home Party opposes the establishment of a Palestinian state, was soliciting the support of Yair Lapid, the finance minister and leader of the centrist Yesh Atid Party, for new legislation. Mr. Lapid, who says he supports a two-state solution but not concessions on Jerusalem, has not yet declared his party’s position on the referendum issue.

Mr. Bennett is seeking to broaden and more deeply anchor legislation approved in 2010 requiring any peace deal involving the ceding of territory annexed by Israel — namely East Jerusalem and the Golan Heights — to be put to a national referendum, unless it won the support of two-thirds of the members of Parliament.

Mr. Bennett would now like to see such legislation extended to include the West Bank, where Israeli law does not apply. Israel unilaterally withdrew its forces from the Palestinian coastal enclave of Gaza in 2005 and destroyed all its settlements there without a referendum.

Mr. Netanyahu, for his part, appears to be trying to cover all political bases. In a closed meeting with senior staff members at the Israeli Foreign Ministry on Wednesday, he said the purpose of a future agreement with the Palestinians was “to prevent a reality of a binational state and to ensure stability and security,” according to officials who attended the meeting. That is an argument more usually associated with the Israeli center and left.

But Mr. Netanyahu added that the root of the conflict was not the territories that Israel conquered in the 1967 war, but rather “the lack of willingness of the Palestinians to recognize Israel as the nation state of the Jewish people” — a formulation that the Palestinians adamantly reject.
87 2013-05-03 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg on Wednesday night stoked speculation about his interest in acquiring The Financial Times at a breezy Upper East Side reception celebrating the newspaper’s 125th anniversary.

In a speech for the occasion, Mr. Bloomberg said he was there “to celebrate my second favorite financial news outlet,” which he said has “always been on the cutting edge of financial journalism.”

Mr. Bloomberg has a standard response these days to inquiries about his interest in adding The F.T., currently owned by British company Pearson, to the financial media company that bears his name: “In fact, people are always telling me I should buy the F.T.,” Mr. Bloomberg said. He paused for comic affect, adding: “I buy it everyday.”

The Empire State Building glowed in a pink hue to celebrate the bisque-colored paper that got its start in Britain on May 1, 1888. The TV host Charlie Rose and the British advertising executive Martin Sorrell were among the guests who sipped pink champagne and vodka-spiked pink lemonade in the airy courtyard of the Academy Mansion near Central Park, a live jazz band playing in the background.

On Tuesday, Mr. Bloomberg faulted The New York Times for failing to report on the victims of gun violence while its editorial page criticizes the New York Police Department’s stop-and-frisk policy. A day later, he seemed somewhat apologetic, fondly recounting The Times’ founding and counting the paper among the “three great newspapers” including The Financial Times and The Wall Street Journal.

“You have to read all three and I do,” he said. “And then I read the papers that really matter, The New York Post and The Daily News.” Also a day later, The Times reported on the crime that the mayor complained the paper had ignored: the shooting death of Alphonza Bryant III, 17, in the South Bronx. (Afterward, a spokesman for the mayor said Mr. Bloomberg’s comments were not intended as an apology to The Times.)
88 2013-05-03 The Metropolitan Museum’s Asian art department steered clear of contemporary work in the 20th century but is embracing it, big time, in the 21st, with an impressive survey of sculpture by the young Cambodian artist Sopheap Pich. Not only is this show good-sized but it’s also embedded in the permanent collection. The installation starts outside the Chinese painting galleries; continues in a mezzanine usually devoted to South Asian material; and concludes in the Southeast Asian art galleries

Mr. Pich — who was born in Cambodia in 1971, went to art school in the United States and now lives in Phnom Penh — first came to attention in New York in 2009 with a gallery show of openwork sculptures woven from rattan strips. The basketlike pieces looked lighter than air, but with their semiabstract images of half-built cities, viscera and bombs, they were weighty with ideas.

The Met show, organized by John Guy, curator of the arts of South and Southeast Asia, with Sheena Wagstaff, chairwoman of the department of modern and contemporary art, gives a sense of Mr. Pich’s formal scope. The 2011 “Morning Glory,” which twists and trumpets across a wide-open space in front of the museum’s Astor Court, is monumental but finespun and transparent. By contrast, most of the work in the mezzanine gallery is small, dark and dense; two grid-format reliefs look like windows covered by grates. (A new series of his reliefs is on view through June 14 at Tyler Rollins Fine Art, 529 West 20th Street, in Chelsea.)

Mr. Pich, who lived through the Khmer Rouge years as a child, resists defining his work autobiographically but acknowledges in it traces of his own and his country’s past. A woven Buddha figure, suspended among the Met’s Cambodian antiquities, refers to a faith nearly expunged in the 1970s, but gaining strength again. That the figure looks unfinished, with loose rattan strips hanging free, suggests that a cultural history is still very much in progress and that Mr. Pich’s art is part of it.
89 2013-05-03 LOS ANGELES— “Iron Man 3” has reasserted Hollywood’s place in China, at least for the moment. Hollywood.com, citing a report from China, said the first day’s take on Wednesday for Marvel Entertainment’s action film was almost $21 million, beating the previous one-day record set by “Transformers: Dark of the Moon” in 2011.

For much of the last year, domestic Chinese films have been overshadowing those from American studios in China, and some observers had speculated that “So Young,” a Chinese romance, might challenge American-made blockbusters for primacy with moviegoers in a head-to-head showdown. In the end, Chinese officials did some last-minute juggling of dates that kept the films from opening in direct competition. “So Young” opened earlier, and did well, with an opening-weekend take of about $22 million at the box-office.

But “Iron Man 3,” which has been heavily promoted and includes scenes shot especially for the Chinese market, is poised to do much bigger business, with well over $300 million in worldwide ticket sales before its opening in the United States on Friday.
90 2013-05-03 He even has a broader picture of Intel’s future, like imagining moving beyond today’s popular mobile devices and into other gadgets in people’s homes and even into so-called wearable computing devices. “If you’re just talking phones, you’re shooting behind the duck,” he added.

Last year, almost two-thirds of Intel’s $53 billion in revenue came from making chips for PCs, a market Mr. Krzanich acknowledges is “not growing, let’s be honest.”

Last month, researchers at the information technology firm IDC said PC demand declined more than 13 percent annually in the first quarter, as buyers turned to mobile devices like smartphones and tablets. In the same period, IDC said worldwide tablet shipments were up 142.4 percent, while smartphone shipments were up 41.6 percent. The bulk of Intel’s remaining revenue came from chips for computer servers, a business Intel still dominates.

Mr. Krzanich, who is the company’s chief operating officer and is an expert in running big chip factories, will become Intel’s sixth chief executive on May 16, succeeding Paul S. Otellini, who unexpectedly announced his retirement last November. Intel also promoted Renee James, the 48-year-old chief of the company’s software division, to president on Thursday.

Some analysts saw the appointment of Mr. Krzanich as a signal that the company would increase investment in its manufacturing while chasing new customers with chips meant for mobile products.

“The PC and server markets are so big, so important, that you can’t take your eye off the ball,” said Doug Freedman, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets. Mr. Krzanich, he noted, “is very much about the results. He comes from a world of schedules and manufacturing.”

But Mr. Freedman also said, “There’s a part of the investment community that would have preferred an outsider” to shake up the company. This was never likely at Intel, he noted, where employment shorter than a decade marks one as a newcomer. Intel said it considered both inside and outside candidates.

Mr. Krzanich was one of several internal candidates who made their final pitches to Intel’s board last weekend. Ms. James was also vying for the job, and Mr. Krzanich said the two had privately discussed working together, no matter who became chief executive.

“She was a very viable candidate,” he said. “Our vision of a mobile, connected computing environment was so close, we saw together we could drive things faster.”

Though he would not detail his entire strategy in the interview, Mr. Krzanich said he saw no reason to reduce Intel’s spending on cutting-edge chip technology and manufacturing. “I fought for this job for a reason,” he said. “The assets that made us great in PCs and servers are even stronger in the mobile and cloud world.”

In part, Mr. Krzanich says he believes he is carrying through on a plan that’s already under way.

On Monday, for example, Intel will introduce a new version of its low-power Atom chip designed for communications products, where its market is negligible.

If successful, Mr. Krzanich will create an Intel markedly different from the past.

Under Andrew S. Grove, the executive who coined the unofficial company slogan, “Only the paranoid survive” and led Intel to dominance in providing chips for PCs and servers, the company honed a business known for a few close relationships with partners like Microsoft, and then PC manufacturers like Hewlett-Packard and Dell. Those relationships and the fortunes of those companies have declined in recent years.

Today, Intel faces competition from Qualcomm and Nvidia in the manufacturing of chips for mobile devices. H.P. is showing off servers that use parts from five or more competitors.

Even Microsoft, once the other half of a relationship so close that pundits called the two companies Wintel, is working with other chip makers for its video game consoles and tablets.
91 2013-05-03 The first 911 call about the fire came in at 6:16 a.m., fire officials said, with reports that it had started in a garage at 3985 White Plains Road underneath the elevated subway tracks. The fire then spread to other businesses through a common cockloft, a part of the roof shared by adjoining buildings. The fire could be seen for miles and disrupted subway service, with trains bypassing the 225th Street station, which was enveloped in smoke.

Eleven firefighters and one passer-by were taken to hospitals in the Bronx with minor injuries, mostly for smoke inhalation, a fire official said.

What started the fire is still under investigation, officials said.

By the time the fire was declared under control at 9:45 a.m., it had destroyed or damaged 11 businesses on White Plains Road, between 225th and 226th Streets.

Firefighters blasted a hose straight into the rubble from the street while a team using a ladder truck rained a spray of water onto the fire. At times, the wind and water whipped the white smoke from the fire into a noxious fog that made the entire block disappear and sent onlookers scurrying away, their shirts pulled up over their noses.

Gordon Livingston, 51, a neighbor, shook his head as he watched jets of water hissing into the wreckage.

“It’s total devastation for this community,” he said. “This is like mom-and-pop shops trying to get by. This is a big loss.”

Surrounded by several of her daughters, Ms. Darga, 55, seemed to be at a loss. “We don’t know what we do now,” she said.

Boost Mobile, a cellphone store on the edge of the block, appeared to have been spared the worst, but that was of little consolation to its owner, Youngae Hwang.

“I can’t say I was lucky. How about those other people?” said Ms. Hwang, 67, gesturing at Ms. Darga and her daughters.

A neighboring mosque, Masjid Al-Huda, sustained water and fire damage, and will be closed indefinitely for repairs, said Bilal Ahmed, 34, a member who leads the call to prayers.

“We just got to be patient,” he said. “The main goal is we have to come together to help each other.”

Sam Saleh, 18, who works at a deli on the block, got a call from a worker on the block at about 7 a.m., telling him that a garage was on fire and that the fire was spreading. He raced to the shop, Bronx Mini Market, and found the whole block smeared in smoke.

“They said, ‘The store is burning,’ ” Mr. Saleh recalled. “I just came rushing.”

Mohamed Alsaidi, 53, the owner of the Bronx Mini Mart and a native of Yemen, said his passport and all of his documents burned inside the market, which he ran for seven years.

“Everything is gone,” Mr. Alsaidi said. “All my papers — my life is inside there.”

Malik Dieye, 24, who also worked at the Mini Mart, said it offered services like money wiring and cellphone sales, making it integral to the community.

“It’s not one of those stores where people come and go,” Mr. Dieye said. “We have a social relationship with our customers like a family.”
92 2013-05-03 On Thursday the president signaled confidence that Ms. Pritzker would be confirmed by joking about it. Noting that Ms. Pritzker’s nomination coincided with her 54th birthday, he quipped, “For your birthday present you get to go through confirmation.” After a comedic pause, he added with a chuckle, “It’s going to be great.”

With Ms. Pritzker, Mr. Obama would bring a woman and a voice for business interests into a cabinet that has been criticized in the past as having too few of either. Even so, the president of the National Organization for Women, Terry O’Neill, issued a statement immediately after the announcement saying that “the numbers are good, but not great,” since women are 51 percent of the population but about one-third of the cabinet.

“NOW is particularly concerned that the main group of advisers who have the president’s ear not just on occasion, but three, four, five times a day, is still overwhelmingly male,” she added.

Ms. Pritzker, a longtime business and civic leader in Chicago, would head perhaps the most eclectic department in the government, with wide-ranging responsibility that includes federal business programs, oceans policy, weather forecasting and travel and tourism. In Democratic and Republican administrations, the commerce secretary is often best known as a president’s emissary to the business community and political donors.

The commerce post had been vacant for nearly a year, since the businessman John E. Bryson resigned for medical reasons in June; his deputy, Rebecca M. Blank, has been acting secretary since then. Ms. Blank, an academic, is leaving to become chancellor of the University of Wisconsin, Madison.

Ms. Pritzker is chairwoman and chief executive of PSP Capital Partners and its affiliate, Pritzker Realty Group, and chairwoman of Artemis Real Estate Partners. During Mr. Obama’s first term, she served on his Council on Jobs and Competitiveness and on his Economic Recovery Advisory Board. Mr. Obama credited her on Thursday as “the driving force” behind his Skills for America’s Future initiative to connect businesses and community colleges to develop a work force with the skills employers need.

Mr. Froman, who is 50, has served in the White House as the deputy national security adviser for international economics since Mr. Obama first took office. Although the post was not a cabinet position, Mr. Froman had proximity to the president and a portfolio thicker than that of the cabinet-rank trade representative, encompassing not only trade but also international development and climate change issues.

Mr. Froman had planned to keep his White House post in the second term, and Mr. Obama initially intended to nominate Jeffrey D. Zients, a businessman who had been the acting director of the Office of Management and Budget, to be trade representative. But opposition to Mr. Zients from Senator Max Baucus of Montana, the Democratic chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, which would handle his nomination, scuttled it. Mr. Baucus objected to Mr. Zients’s oversight of a government-reorganization study that recommended changes that would have affected the committee’s jurisdiction, according to administration and Congressional aides.

Mr. Froman’s inclusion with Mr. Obama for the trip to Mexico and Costa Rica reflects his current leading role in international economic affairs. He has been the president’s “sherpa,” making preparations for past and coming global economic summit meetings. He also oversees economic relations with Europe, Japan and the developing BRIC bloc — Brazil, Russia, India and China — and development policies for Africa and the Middle East.

Administration officials said Mr. Froman would retain some of those responsibilities.

On Thursday, Mr. Obama gave Mr. Froman credit, along with the man he would succeed as trade representative, Ron Kirk, for finishing free trade pacts with South Korea, Colombia and Panama, all of which were begun in the Bush administration. The foremost issues for the new trade representative will be to negotiate trade liberalization deals with Europe and the Pacific Rim region.

“He has won the respect of our trading partners around the world,” Mr. Obama said of Mr. Froman. “He has also won a reputation as being an extraordinarily tough negotiator while doing it.”

Labor groups generally have had good if occasionally testy relations with Mr. Froman, but a liberal group, Public Citizen’s Global Trade Watch, assailed his “corporate agenda.” Business groups issued statements praising him and Ms. Pritzker.
93 2013-05-03 In 2006, he was sentenced to 51 months in jail on what supporters say were trumped-up charges; upon his release, he and his family were confined to their home, watched day and night by surveillance cameras and a cordon of men. His improbable escape — by scaling a wall one night and crawling through fields to freedom — electrified the world and deeply embarrassed the Chinese government.

After several days of tense negotiations last May, Chinese officials allowed Mr. Chen and his family to leave the embassy for New York. They also promised to investigate Mr. Chen’s illegal detention and the claims that his relatives had also been subjected to harassment, according to officials involved in the negotiations.

Mr. Chen, now studying at New York University Law School, has continued to press for an investigation into his mistreatment and to speak out publicly about the lack of rule of law in China. The government’s response, he has said, has been an escalating campaign of intimidation against those he left behind in Dongshigu village.

His nephew was convicted during a brief trial that legal experts say was rife with irregularities. While in prison, family members say, he has been ill-fed and subjected to frequent abuse.

His father says Chen Kegui was given a diagnosis of appendicitis on April 24, but prison doctors insisted on treating him with antibiotics. The inmate’s condition has worsened in recent days, his father said, but senior prison officials have refused to send him to a hospital. “I’m here at the prison but the warden won’t meet with me,” Chen Guanfu said by phone Thursday morning.

Reached by phone, a senior official at the prison in Linyi city declined to comment, saying he was not authorized to speak to foreign journalists.

The case has prompted an outcry from rights advocates; on Monday, an American organization, Freedom Now, submitted an appeal on his behalf to the United Nations special rapporteur on torture.

“Chen Kegui’s life and health are now in the hands of the same authorities who have authorized or tolerated other abuses against him in prison and his family in their village,” Sophie Richardson, the China director at Human Rights Watch, said in a statement. “To deny him appropriate treatment reflects at best incompetence and at worst a twisted effort to torment the Chen family.”

In recent weeks, the Chen family has reported increasing harassment, which appears to be timed to the anniversary of Chen Guangcheng’s escape from house arrest.

Chen Guanfu says the thugs hired to keep watch over him and his extended family have been tossing bricks, beer bottles and dead chickens into their courtyard at night and placing funereal paper money at their doorstep to intimidate them. During one such attack earlier this week, Mr. Chen says, he tried calling the police but found that his cellphone had been remotely disabled.
94 2013-05-04 Carl Richards is a certified financial planner in Park City, Utah, and is the director of investor education at The BAM Alliance. His book, &#x201C; The Behavior Gap, &#x201D; was published this year. His sketches are archived&#xA0; on the Bucks b...
95 2013-05-04 The April 15 tax deadline is now receding in our collective rear view mirror. Nothing to do now, but to start collecting records for next year. Right?&#xa;   &#xa;Unless, of course, you are audited by the Internal Revenue Service....
96 2013-05-04 Orb, ridden by Joel Rosario, wins the 139th running of the Kentucky Derby. He became a 6-1 co-favorite with Revolutionary before the race....
97 2013-05-04 The court led by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. has been friendlierto corporate interests than any other recent court, according to a newstudy of the votes of 36 justices serving since 1946.
98 2013-05-04 Pictures From the Week in Business
99 2013-05-04 New York State is a national laggard when it comes to voting. The state has one of the worst voter turnout records in the country, not least because the act of voting is cumbersome and uninviting. In November, 53.6 percent of registered voters cast ballots, leaving New York 44th among the 50 states and the District of Columbia for voter participation.

One fix would be to allow early voting. There are 32 states that give voters a chance to cast their ballots early and in person, some providing polling spots on weekends. Democrats in New York’s Assembly voted this week to give voters as many as 15 days and two weekends before Election Day to cast their ballots in person. The bill would require multiple voting sites in each county. This would reduce long lines, especially in the cities, on Election Day.

All but one Republican voted no. And Senate Republicans are resisting, too. Why? Not, they say, because they want to discourage voting. Their complaint is that early voting would be too expensive for upstate counties. That problem could be addressed by cutting back on the extra hours and adding a little extra state money.

There are other ways that New York’s reluctant legislators could make voting a less frustrating experience. They could make it easier for voters to change parties, which can take longer than a year. They could simplify confusing ballots. They could require the New York City Board of Elections to hire qualified people, not simply political cronies, to run the elections. They could set up a system of public financing to encourage greater competition in most races, which in turn would help attract people to the polls.

Early voting, which Gov. Andrew Cuomo supports, would be a good start. The Senate leader, Dean Skelos, and his fellow Republicans should agree to give voters a break on Election Days.
100 2013-05-04 “High-skilled people can take the jobs of middle-skilled people, and middle-skilled people can take jobs of low-skilled people,” said Justin Wolfers, a professor of public policy and economics at the University of Michigan. “And low-skilled people are out of luck.”

In some cases, employers are specifically requiring four-year degrees for jobs that previously did not need them, since companies realize that in a relatively poor job market college graduates will be willing to take whatever they can find.

That has left those who have spent some time in college but have not received a bachelor’s degree to scramble for what is left. Employment for them fell during the recession and is now back to exactly where it began. There were 34,992,000 workers with some college employed in December 2007, and there are 34,992,000 today.

In other words, workers with four-year degrees have gobbled up all of the net job gains. In fact, there are more employed college graduates today than employed high school graduates and high school dropouts put together.

It is worth noting, too, that even young college graduates are finding jobs, based on the most recent data on this subgroup. In 2011, the unemployment rate for people in their 20s with at least a bachelor’s degree was 5.7 percent. For those with only a high school diploma or a G.E.D., it was nearly three times as high, at 16.2 percent.

Americans have gotten the message that college pays off in the job market. College degrees are much more common today than they were in the past. In April, about 32 percent of the civilian, noninstitutional population over 25 — that is, the group of people who are not inmates of penal and mental facilities or residents of homes for the disabled or aged and who are not on active military duty — had a college degree.

Twenty years ago, the share was 22 percent. Given the changing norms for what degree of educational training is expected of working Americans, employers might assume those who do not have a four-year degree are less ambitious or less capable, regardless of their actual ability.

These forces might help explain why there is so much growth in employment among college graduates despite the fact that the bulk of the jobs created in the last few years have been low-wage and low-skilled, according to a report last August from the National Employment Law Project, a liberal research and advocacy group. Today nearly one in 13 jobs is in food services, for example, a record share.

Clearly, positions in retail and food services are not the best use of the hard-earned skills of college-educated workers, who have gone to great expense to obtain their sheepskins. Student loan borrowers graduate with an average debt of $27,000, a total that is likely to grow in the future.

But nearly all of those graduates are at least finding work and income of some kind, unlike a much larger share of their less educated peers. And as the economy improves, college graduates will be better situated to find promotions to jobs that do use their more advanced skills and that pay better wages, economists say.

The median weekly earnings of college-educated, full-time workers — like those for their counterparts with less education — have dipped in recent years. In 2012, the weekly median was $1,141, compared with $1,163 in 2007, after adjusting for inflation. The premium they earn for having that college degree is still high, though.

In 2012, the typical full-time worker with a bachelor’s degree earned 79 percent more than a similar full-time worker with no more than a high school diploma. For comparison, 20 years earlier the premium was 73 percent, and 30 years earlier it was 48 percent.

And since a higher percentage of college graduates than high school graduates are employed in full-time work, these figures actually understate the increase in the total earnings premium from college completion, said Gary Burtless, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, an independent research organization.

So, despite the painful upfront cost, the return on investment on a college degree remains high. An analysis from the Hamilton Project at the Brookings Institution in Washington estimated that the benefits of a four-year college degree were equivalent to an investment that returns 15.2 percent a year, even after factoring in the earnings students forgo while in school.

“This is more than double the average return to stock market investments since 1950,” the report said, “and more than five times the returns to corporate bonds, gold, long-term government bonds, or homeownership.”
101 2013-05-04 Mayor trotted out shopworn, discredited arguments this week while defending the constitutionally suspect police program under which hundreds of thousands of innocent New Yorkers have been detained and questioned on the streets every year. His speech, at 1 Police Plaza, castigated civil rights lawyers who oppose what they say is the practice of stopping people based on race instead of reasonable suspicion; Democratic mayoral candidates who want to rein in the program; and the City Council, which is considering a perfectly reasonable bill that would create the position of Police Department inspector general, with broad powers to review department policies.

Mr. Bloomberg denied that police officers stop people based on race, adding that members of minority groups were more likely to be stopped because minorities committed most of the crimes. But court documents in the three federal lawsuits that are moving through the judicial system tell another story entirely.

The data in the case of Floyd v. City of New York, a class action being heard in federal court in , show that in tens of thousands of cases, officers reported stopping people based on “furtive movement,” a meaningless term that cannot be legally used to justify a stop. Officers also reported that they had made stops in “high crime areas,” when, in fact, some of those areas were not. In many cases, officers said that they had stopped people based on a “suspicious bulge” — suggesting a gun — in their clothing. Yet, according to court documents, officers found only one gun for every 69 stops in which they cited a “bulge.” And guns were seized in only 0.15 percent of all stops.

In addition, only 5.4 percent of all stops resulted in an arrest, and about 6 percent led to a summons. This means that in nearly 90 percent of cases, the citizens who were stopped were doing nothing illegal. In some cases, prosecutors declined to automatically prosecute arrests made in connection with the program because they knew that the stops were illegal.

Mr. Bloomberg’s suggestion that the program has been responsible for historic drops in crime is also implausible. Crime has declined all over the country, including in places that have not used New York’s aggressively invasive techniques. Besides, if crime rates and street stops had a strong correlation, the murder rate would have gone up in 2012, when stops declined by about 20 percent. In fact, the murder rate fell in 2012 to an all-time low.

Mr. Bloomberg’s implication that the program’s critics are more interested in vexing City Hall than in keeping the streets clear of murderers was especially reprehensible. No one is opposed to using effective, constitutional means of fighting crime. The problem is that over the last decade the Police Department has shown utter contempt for Fourth Amendment guarantees of freedom from unreasonable search and . And worse, these tactics have been used largely against young black and Hispanic men.
102 2013-05-04 In December 1992, Tiffany Miller and Jon Steckler, students at Mississippi State University, were found shot to death just outside Starkville, Miss. The way Ms. Miller was found suggested sexual assault, though a rape kit analysis at the time turned up no evidence of seminal fluid.

The police discovered at the scene a gold-colored token used to open restroom doors. The same night, someone had broken into a car at Mr. Steckler’s fraternity house, where the couple had been earlier, and stolen several items — including a token very similar to the one at the scene of the killings. Mr. Manning was implicated when witnesses told the police that he was trying to sell items from the car, including a CD player later found in a pawnshop and traced back to him.

Several witnesses offered accounts at trial that tied Mr. Manning to the killings, including a man who said Mr. Manning had confessed while in jail and a former girlfriend of Mr. Manning’s who linked him to the murder weapon.

In a decision on April 25 denying the request for DNA testing, the State Supreme Court said that “conclusive, overwhelming evidence of guilt” was presented at the trial, and that even if the DNA evidence failed to turn up a match, it would not “preclude his participation in the crimes.”

Lawyers for Mr. Manning have argued that the case has serious holes. Some of the trial witnesses gave accounts inconsistent with known facts, they said, and one key witness, the former girlfriend, was given a favorable plea deal on fraud charges as well as nearly $18,000 in reward money after testifying for the prosecution, details not fully disclosed to the trial jury.

Mr. Manning’s lawyers also pointed to fingerprints found in Ms. Miller’s car, which had been driven elsewhere and abandoned after the killings. None of the prints matched Mr. Manning’s, and multiple prints were found that did not match those of the victims.

An F.B.I. expert testified that hairs found in the car belonged to an African-American — Mr. Manning is black, the victims were white — though on Thursday the Department of Justice sent a letter to Mississippi officials with some qualifications to that testimony, and an offer to conduct DNA tests on the hairs.

Mr. Manning’s lawyers, who obtained access to the rape kit and other physical evidence years ago, are pushing to submit this evidence for DNA testing and to compare the unknown fingerprints with those in a national database.

In a dissent, Justice James W. Kitchens of the Mississippi Supreme Court agreed, writing that “whatever potential harm the denial seeks to avert is surely outweighed by the benefits of ensuring justice by the scientific analysis of all the trace evidence.”

There have been many instances when seemingly strong cases — even some where defendants themselves confessed — fell apart after DNA testing, said lawyers for the Innocence Project, an organization dedicated to exonerating wrongfully convicted prisoners that filed a friend-of-the-court brief in Mr. Manning’s case.

More than a dozen exonerations have involved evidence from a rape kit that had initially tested negative, said Peter J. Neufeld, a founder of the Innocence Project.

Nationally, 306 prisoners have been exonerated by DNA testing since 1989, six of them in Mississippi. Two of those, including a former death row inmate, Kennedy Brewer, were prosecuted by Forrest Allgood, the district attorney who also led the case against Mr. Manning.

Mr. Allgood said his involvement in Mr. Manning’s case was so long ago that he could not comment on particulars. But like other Mississippi officials, he said the push for a DNA test was probably a stalling tactic.

“There will be something else after that,” he said. “I think there has to be an end sometime.”
103 2013-05-04 Company officials say the pivot from horse racing was out of necessity. The Kentucky Derby brings hundreds of thousands of people to Louisville every year, generating the bulk of the $65 million in revenue that the company generated in the second quarter of 2012. But Churchill’s live and simulcast horse racing segment regularly loses money.

“They are a more diversified company because they have had to be,” said Jeffrey S. Thomison, an analyst with Hilliard Lyons here. “The gaming sector has attractive economics. Horse racing does not.”

From the company’s perspective, the strategy has worked well. In 2006, the last full year Churchill was a pure racing company, its revenue was $376 million. Last year, its revenue was more than $732 million.

The company’s bottom-line approach to its racetrack holdings and its hard-line negotiating positions have alienated horsemen throughout the industry. On Wednesday, the group representing Florida’s horsemen failed to reach an agreement on a new contract with Calder Race Course in Florida, a Churchill property. Purses there were cut 20 percent, and the horsemen refused to let races be simulcast and bet on at out-of-state sites.

Last year, horsemen boycotted the entry box at Arlington Park near Chicago as only 49 horses raced on Kentucky Oaks Day, and only 48 on Derby Day. A repeat of last year’s disastrous opening was averted when Arlington Park and the Illinois Thoroughbred Horsemen’s Association signed a two-year contract last week after tense negotiations.

Just as the company has shifted its focus from horse racing, the racetracks themselves have also moved beyond the horse races. Calder and the Fair Grounds in New Orleans now have slot machines, which steadily draw crowds, and Arlington Park is expected to get them if Illinois passes an expanded gambling bill.

The company has continued to lobby Kentucky legislators to introduce gaming to the mecca of horse racing, Churchill Downs. The track has been renovated and expanded in the past decade and has plenty of space to accommodate slot machines or a full-blown casino. At the same time, it has reduced the live racing it conducts as foal crops have declined and horsemen have left for racetracks in states where casino revenue has plumped purses.

Churchill has focused much of its attention in recent years on properties outside horse racing, like a casino resort in Greenville, Miss., and a casino hotel in Vicksburg, Miss. It is building a video lottery terminal and harness racing track in southwest Ohio. It owns a multimedia poker company, and it recently launched Luckity.com, which turns live racing into lottery-style games.

Evans, Churchill’s chief executive, discussed the shift during an earnings call last March.

“To millions of people worldwide, Churchill Downs means the Kentucky Derby, the Kentucky Oaks, and Churchill Downs means thoroughbred racing,” Evans said during the call. “And while that’s what our brands mean, it no longer is our business model.”

Churchill Downs officials declined to comment for this article. A company spokeswoman declined to make Evans available when The New York Times would not agree to let the company review quotations before publication.

With the number of days of live races falling across Kentucky and purses dwindling at Turfway in Florence, Ky., and Ellis Park in Henderson, Ky., the state’s leading horse racing figures say Kentucky no longer feels like the heart of thoroughbred racing. Many blame Churchill Downs.

“We’ve lost any semblance of a circuit,” said Marty Maline, the executive director of the Kentucky horsemen’s association. “They want to cut days to have full fields, but when you cut so much, we have to go find other options.”

Even before the recent shift away from horses, Churchill Downs has long clashed with members of the racing world. It has fought with the Jockeys Guild over everything from its contributions to the disabled riders fund to the absence of a kitchen for jockeys at Calder.

The company has irritated some of the sport’s most prominent owners and breeders by tightly controlling ticket prices on Kentucky Derby weekend, which range from $40 in the infield to more than $1,300 per seat on Millionaires Row. Corporate suites on the finish line can run up to $200,000, and seats in third-floor boxes can top $75,0000. This year, the press box was converted into an area called the Mansion, which seats 296 people and features a library, a butler and a private chef. Tickets cost $7,000 to $12,500.

Despite the grumbling from the horse tracks and stables, analysts say the company would not have survived if it had remained reliant on horses.

“They were overly dependent on a contracting business,” said Thomison, of Hilliard Lyons. “They have done a great job of turning a different direction.”
104 2013-05-04 The 12-year-old amateur Ye Wocheng of China, the youngest player to compete on the European Tour, missed the cut at the China Open in Tianjin. He finished 14 over par after a pair of 79s. A 16-year-old, Dou Zecheng, did make the tournament cut with a two-under total. Mikko Ilonen of Finland tied the course record with a nine-under 63 for a three-shot lead.

¶ Ariya Jutanugarn, 17, held her lead in the L.P.G.A. Tour’s Kingsmill Championship in Williamsburg, Va. Her even-par 71 left her at seven under, a shot ahead of Stacy Lewis and Angela Stanford. (AP)
105 2013-05-04 Jesuit missionaries founded settlements in eastern Bolivia using European music as a means of rendering Roman Catholicism more palatable to the indigenous people. Choir directors, musical instrument makers and composers, including the Italian Baroque composer Domenico Zipoli, moved to South America and taught the locals.

Works by Zipoli were performed during an enjoyable concert at St. Paul’s Chapel at Columbia University on Tuesday evening. The event, organized by the Americas Society and Gotham Early Music Scene, featured Meridionalis, the choir of the Americas Society, and the Clarion Music Society.

The program was the culmination of the sixth annual Clarion Collegium Week, a series of lectures and master classes that this year highlighted the Baroque music of Latin America. Tuesday’s concert included works performed during the 18th century, discovered in the archives of Concepción de Chiquitos and San Ignacio de Moxos, two missions in Bolivia.

In addition to employing music as a way of converting the native populations, the Jesuits also used it as a publicity tool, showcasing locally trained ensembles to highlight what they perceived as a successful endeavor to bring Western culture to South America.

Most of the European priests who worked at the missions were educated in the Germanic and Italian traditions, typically scoring their works for three-part chorus, solo voices, two violins and continuo. An ensemble of two violins, cello, bass, organ and guitar performed the selections featured here.

Steven Fox, Clarion’s artistic director, and Sebastián Zubieta, music director of the Americas Society, conducted the beautifully rendered program. Highlights included the exquisite “Dulce Jesús Mio,” a work by an anonymous composer that began with an a cappella solo gracefully sung by Jolle Greenleaf.

Estelí Gomez’s clear, bright voice alternated with the choir in “Iesu Dulcissime,” also by an anonymous author. The exchange of text between ensemble and soloist heightened the dramatic tension of Zipoli’s “Beatus Vir,” with the soprano Katia Escalera elegantly rendering the haunting “Misericors.”
106 2013-05-04 When the campaign began last June, a top state official, Howard Glaser, noted that New York was competing with other states to attract and keep businesses.

“Connecticut is spending $27 million promoting its state, Michigan $25 million, New Jersey ran a campaign to recruit businesses featuring its governor,” Mr. Glaser, the state operations director, said. “California spent $50 million on a campaign to promote its state. We have to compete.”

Mr. Cuomo’s office says that much of the money has not yet been spent — it says it spent $24 million on ad buys for the campaign last year, and another $12 million so far this year, and it says the scale of the campaign is similar to that in other states. A state filing last December said that by then, most of the initial $50 million allotment for the campaign had “been either spent or committed.”

Critics of the “Open for Business” campaign, which the Legislature approved, have proliferated as the commercials receive heavy airtime on networks like CNN, CNBC and NBC. Some have questioned whether the campaign is a wise use of money, while others have questioned whether New York, with its high tax burden, is truly business-friendly.

Andrew Rudnick, the chief executive of the Buffalo Niagara Partnership, a trade group, said in an interview, “New York’s business climate still isn’t competitive enough, in any objective sense of the word, for an ad to overcome.” He added, “I don’t think it’ll make a measurable amount of difference.”

Former Gov. Eliot Spitzer, who like Mr. Cuomo is a Democrat, said in an appearance on NY1 this week, “They’ve spent who knows how much money on TV ads that are fluff and a waste of taxpayer money.”

One of the forces behind the campaign has been Harvey Cohen, who served as the adman for the political campaigns of the governor’s father, former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, and who now works at the Empire State Development Corporation, the state’s economic development arm. Advertising giant BBDO was hired to produce the commercials.

In a presentation to Empire State Development’s board in 2011, Mr. Cohen described the campaign as confronting “a classic marketing problem.” He said consultants who helped businesses relocate had misconceptions about New York.

“Yes they knew high taxes, yes they knew regulations, yes they knew right to work, but interestingly, they would tell me that many companies don’t even know that upstate New York exists,” he said, adding, “They certainly don’t know the new attitude brought in by the new administration.”

An early commercial featured a voice-over by Robert De Niro and the Jay-Z song “Empire State of Mind.”

“Some said we lost our edge,” Mr. De Niro narrated. “Well today, there’s a new New York State, one that’s working to attract businesses and create jobs.”

Another ad highlighted small businesses, from an ice cream factory to a bicycle shop, while a third ad focused on the state’s emerging technology sector.

In a statement last year, Mr. Cuomo said, “By telling the stories of businesses that are already succeeding in our state, we can attract even more economic opportunity and jobs.”

But others have raised concerns that the governor and lawmakers are draining money from ostensibly independent public authorities for purposes running counter to their missions, in a practice that is controversial but common in Albany. The state regularly takes what it describes as excess funds from public authorities, to finance state programs.

A state official said the early stages of the ad campaign were partly financed by the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority, which runs programs intended to reduce energy consumption and improve the environment, and the Dormitory Authority of New York, which supports universities and nonprofit institutions.

Last December, the Cuomo administration added another $50 million. The money came from the State Power Authority, which was created to generate and provide cheap electricity to lower bills for residents and business. In public filings, officials with the authority described the advertising campaign as part of a broader effort by it to promote economic development.

Richard Brodsky, a Democrat and former assemblyman from Westchester County, said, “These authorities should be lowering electric rates, building dormitories and otherwise doing what they were created to do, rather than being raided” to pay for the ads.

Last month, the state expanded the “Open for Business” campaign, using $40 million from the federal aid package intended to help New Yorkers recover from Hurricane Sandy, records show. A new series of ads will, according to a state document, “promote seasonal business in areas” affected by the storm and a program focused on helping small businesses rebuild. New Jersey plans to spend $25 million of its federal funds on a campaign to promote the Jersey Shore and other storm-damaged areas.
107 2013-05-04 The urology association’s previous recommendation, issued in 2009, was that blood testing for P.S.A., which stands for prostate-specific antigen, should be offered to men starting at age 40. Millions of men now get the P.S.A. test, many as part of their annual checkup.

When the government advisory task force recommended against screening, urologists, who treat many men with prostate cancer, expressed outrage, with one saying the policy was “flawed, dangerous and catastrophic for men.”

But some prostate cancer experts say the association risked losing credibility had it stuck to its recommendations for widespread screening. The new guidelines, they say, could preserve P.S.A. screening by recommending more moderate use.

The association “is not dismissing the P.S.A. test as the task force has done,” said Dr. Philip W. Kantoff, a prostate cancer specialist at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston who was a member of the guidelines committee. “There should be a more reasonable approach to the use of P.S.A.”

Dr. David F. Penson, chairman of the urology association’s health policy council, said the new guidelines reflected the results of two recent clinical trials. “We just put our recommendations in line with the evidence,” he said.

The problem with screening is that levels of P.S.A. can be elevated for reasons having nothing to do with prostate cancer. That leads many men to have unnecessary biopsies, which can cause pain and infections. And biopsies find many cancers that would be so slow-growing that they would never harm the man. Because it is difficult to distinguish the dangerous from the nonaggressive tumors, however, most men undergo surgery or radiation treatments and then suffer from side effects like incontinence and erectile dysfunction.

In its guidelines on Friday, the association said that for men 55 to 69, screening would prevent one prostate cancer death for every 1,000 men screened over a decade.

The guidelines say that some men at higher-than-average risk of getting prostate cancer, such as those with a family history or who are African-Americans, could discuss the benefits and harms of starting screening at an age earlier than 55.

Some experts skeptical of screening have noted that the advent of P.S.A. testing led to a big jump in the number of diagnoses of prostate cancer, increasing the business of urologists. The P.S.A. test underpins a prostate cancer industry, consisting of laboratories that do biopsies, manufacturers of surgical robots and radiation equipment, even suppliers of adult diapers.

Dr. Otis W. Brawley, the chief medical officer of the American Cancer Society, has been a critic of mass screening campaigns, such as those held at shopping malls. “There has been a lot of money made by hospitals and clinics doing these mass screenings,” he said, referring to the treatment after cancer is found.

Dr. Brawley said the new urological association guidelines were “wonderful” if they were put into effect and would bring the association closer to the position of the American Cancer Society.
108 2013-05-04 “This is a case in which additional information regarding the Kneeling Attendants has led the museum to consider facts that were not known at the time of the acquisition and to take the action we are announcing today,” Mr. Campbell said in a statement.

No timetable has been set. The museum told Cambodian officials in a letter last month that it hoped to send the objects as soon as “appropriate arrangements for transit can be mutually established.”

The Met’s decision reflects the growing sensitivity by American museums to claims by foreign countries for the return of their cultural artifacts. Many items that have long been displayed in museums do not have precise paperwork showing how the pieces left their countries of origin. In recent years, at the urging of the Association of Art Museum Directors and scholars, many museums have applied more rigorous standards to their acquisitions.

At the time the statues came to the Met in four pieces — two torsos and two heads — the Met and the museum world allowed acquisitions without detailed histories, although an effort was supposed to be made to examine an object’s origin in case it was illicit.

In an interview from Cambodia, Chan Tani, the secretary of state with the nation’s Office of the Council of Ministers, expressed excitement about the return.

“This shows the high ethical standards and professional practices of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, which they are known for,” he said.

Cambodian officials also visited the Met in March to photograph its Khmer items. A government official said that Cambodia would like the museum to review the provenance of another two dozen objects.

The Met has developed a collaborative relationship with the country and is now exhibiting 10 sculptural works by the contemporary Cambodian artist Sopheap Pich. The museum is also hoping to hold a major exhibition of Khmer artifacts next year.

The negotiations over the statues, which began last June, culminated with the trip by Sharon Cott, the Met’s general counsel, and John Guy, its Southeast Asian curator, to Cambodia in March.

“As a matter of courtesy, they wanted to go there rather than communicate by e-mail,” said Harold Holzer, the Met’s senior vice president for external affairs.

Among the evidence cited by the Cambodians was the finding of the statues’ broken-off bases still at the temple. That discovery is significant, according to Cambodian officials, who say archaeologists have evidence showing that other statues from the same grouping as the remained in place as late as 1970, only to disappear by 1975.

Another object that was once part of the same grouping is a huge 10th-century statue of a warrior, known as Duryodhana, which had hoped to sell in 2011 for $3 million on behalf of its Belgian owner.

Cambodia says that statue was also looted. officials have filed suit in federal court in to confiscate the statue on Cambodia’s behalf. The trial is expected to start later this year.

Sotheby’s has said it applied all appropriate standards of provenance research before agreeing to sell the statue. Asked on Friday what impact the Met’s decision might have on the court case, Sotheby’s replied in a statement that: “The Met’s voluntary agreement does not shed any light on the key issues in our case.” The auction house says that the consignor bought the statue in good faith in 1975 and that it had no knowledge of Cambodia’s claim of ownership.

A fourth statue in the grouping, called Bhima, is at the Norton Simon Museum in , Calif. Cambodia has also asked the United States government to help it recover the Bhima from the Norton Simon. The museum says it is cooperating with investigators.

The Kneeling Attendants came to the Met in a series of gifts that began in 1987 when Spink & Son, a auction house, and a longtime Khmer art collector, Douglas A. J. Latchford, joined in donating one of the two heads. A second head was donated by Raymond G. and Milla Louise Handley in 1989, who had bought it two years earlier, also at Spink.

In 1992, Mr. Latchford gave the museum the two torsos, and in 1993 the heads and bodies were reattached by museum conservators.

At one time Mr. Latchford was also listed as an owner of the Sotheby’s statue, which was later sold by Spink to the husband, now dead, of its current owner.

Mr. Latchford, 81, has said that the paperwork was mistaken — that the auction house listed him as an owner for accounting purposes and that he never actually purchased the warrior statue. He has denied having any role in the illicit shipments of Cambodian antiquities.

In an interview from , where he lives, Mr. Latchford said of the Met’s statues: “Admittedly these things were moonlighted out of Cambodia and wound up somewhere else. But had they not been, they would likely have been shot up for target practice by the .”

He said that collectors and museums had been essential in rescuing and caring for cultural artifacts that spread an understanding of Khmer culture.

Mr. Latchford has donated at least seven other items to the Met, including the stone head of a Buddha and the bronze head of a Shiva, both from the 10th-century Khmer Angkor period, according to the museum’s Web site.

Mr. Holzer said there was no special effort under way to re-examine the provenance of those items.

Over the years the Met has returned many objects of questionable provenance to other countries. In 2010 it sent 19 pieces from King ’s tomb that had been in its collection since the early 1900s. In 2006 the Met signed an agreement with to return the famous Euphronios krater, a Hellenistic silver collection and four other antiquities in exchange for loans of some of the items and other pieces.

In 1997 the Met returned a 10th-century head of Shiva to Cambodia after it turned up on a list of looted objects from Angkor.

Tess Davis, a researcher on Cambodian antiquities with the Scottish Center for Crime and Justice Research in , said that the Met’s gesture should serve as a signal to other American museums that possess antiquities with sketchy provenances.

“The Met could have treated Cambodia’s request as an obstacle,” she said. “Instead, the museum recognized it as an opportunity to set the moral standard for the art world.”
109 2013-05-04 The business segment consists of private fixed investment in everything from buildings to computers, but excludes residential construction. That is included in the consumer category, which also includes personal consumption expenditures. The government category includes spending by all three levels of government, federal, state and local.

Business investment in the first quarter of this year was 21 percent higher than it had been in the quarter when the economy bottomed.

That was not quite as large an increase as followed the 1991 bottom, but it is more rapid than the increases that occurred during the recoveries that began in 1982 and 2001.

Corporations as a group are doing well. Corporate profits, as a percent of G.D.P., rose to record post-World War II levels in 2012, and the effective income tax rate on those profits remains lower than it was in any of the past recoveries, according to government estimates.

The government has not yet estimated first-quarter corporate profits.

After past recessions, there has often been an immediate explosion in consumer spending as pent-up demand comes to the fore, and as the housing industry rebounds rapidly. That did not happen this time, in large part because of the nature of the boom in the 2000s, which included excessive investment in houses and consumers taking on debt to support their consumption. The resulting hangover has depressed the recovery in consumer spending to just 8.6 percent after 15 quarters, well below the pace of any of the previous three rebounds.

That is starting to change, however. The pace of growth in nonresidential investment is slowing, but residential investment is starting to take off. And personal consumption expenditures climbed at an annual rate of 3.2 percent in the first quarter, the fastest pace in more than two years.

Whether those gains can continue, as the payroll tax increase and the federal government sequester increase their impact, remains to be seen.

The government sector has been shrinking almost continually since the end of the recession. The decline in state and local government seems to have begun to slow down, but the decline in federal spending appears to be picking up and is likely to continue to be a drag on the American economy.
110 2013-05-05 You may not get room service or a terry cloth robe, but what Airbnb vacation rentals lack in amenities, they make up for in unbelievable, sometimes rather bizarre experiences.

One of urban life’s uncommon diversions is the chance to ransack the drawers of an anonymous neighbor. Airbnb is the Internet service, for those of you who don’t have a Danish architect leafing through your local Lonely Planet at your kitchen table right now, that lets “hosts” rent their extra bedrooms or entire apartments, mansions, tiki huts or goatskin yurts to travelers. In only five years, Airbnb has created a marketplace that offers 300,000 listings in 35,000 cities in 192 countries. It’s been so successful that half the tech start-ups these days go around flattering themselves with Airbnb comparisons: there’s an Airbnb for boats, and one for power tools, and probably one that will let you rent out your extra sheep to fertilize somebody’s lawn. Airbnb, for its part, might bill itself as a cheaper, roomier, warmer way to overnight — less deracinated than a hotel, but without the creaky-floorboard unease of a bed and breakfast — but the great unadvertised draw is the chance to spend time amid somebody else’s trappings.

In olden times if you wanted to sleep in strangers’ beds, you generally had to have sex with strangers; Airbnb lets you book their linens from your phone. There’s been a lot written about the “sharing economy”: on the one hand, services like this make for more efficient resource allocation; on the other, they offload what was once regulated institutional risk onto the consumer. But somehow these arguments, which will be worked out in the courts and capitols, have tended to ignore what’s actually weird and interesting about this new mode of travel: Airbnb indulges the fantasy that we might temporarily inhabit another life. It’s in part because of this lived experience that Airbnb guests aren’t just users, they’re evangelists. I recently lit out to sightsee three other people’s lives in three nights in three European cities: London, Stockholm and Antwerp.

The voyeuristic frame gives some Airbnb experiences a kind of erotic charge, or at least it did during the impromptu Airbnb get-together I somehow ended up throwing in London, where I was staying in a duplex warehouse in Shoreditch. While I’d been waiting in the freezing courtyard to be let in — Hotels 1, Airbnb 0 — I’d read down the list of my neighbors-for-the-night, which read like the billing for a trip-hop reunion: the tenants had such names as Darq and Magnetised. The owner, who was “surfing/working” in Australia, had described the apartment in an e-mail as “a good space to chill and paint, so feel free to paint if you’d like!” Once I finally got inside, the flat revealed itself to be perfectly contiguous with its Shoreditch environment: with its casually abused pleather settees, mannequin torso and panels of decoratively broken surfboard, it looked like one more cafe-bar-bike-repair joint. In Airbnb’s spirit of connectedness, I Instagram-crowdsourced descriptions of the owner’s artwork; one friend commented that it was “Warhol goes Ke$ha.” My bedroom, in a windowless basement, had a stairway that curved upward to meet curtains, which in turn hid a cardboard wall.

I hadn’t planned to bring anybody back with me, but the more I talked about the place over drinks at the pub with friends, the more the gang assembled clamored to see it. They could sit around and whinge at the pub any night, but it wasn’t often they got to have a hotel party at a neighbor’s flat. “It’s ‘Queer Eye for the Absent Guy,’ ” my friend Tom said, flicking the switch that backlit the Euripides bust by the bongos, in front of the skateboard-mounted vinyl couch. The group noted the unreconstructed “Point Break” aesthetic and the fact that everything from the lime-green shag to the wall mirrors had been set at rakish angles. They argued over the rent (probably £4,000 to £6,000 per month), the municipal legality of windowless bedrooms and the merit of the Tesco-brand sweet potato, coconut and chili soup in the fridge. My new friend Anna had never heard of Airbnb, and asked if she could do this in her own flat, up the road in hipper Dalston. I showed her listings on her block. “Do I have to let them use the bathrooms?” she asked.

But the promise of voyeurism can undermine itself: once you’ve introduced the kind of self-consciousness that results from having to put verified photos of your upholstery on the Internet, at least some owners take down their Euripides busts. It’s been increasingly noted that one of the unfortunate surprises of the contemporary Internet is the proliferation of corporate uniformity. This is nowhere more apparent than on Airbnb, where it often seems as though each residence is striving to out-Bulthaup the next. The place I’d booked in Stockholm was an altar to minimalism, showcasing the no-place of international design with the star(c)k accouterments of a boutique hotel: Vitra chair, antique apothecary bottles, home D.J. kit, paperback of Jonathan Franzen’s “Freedom.” My host, Erik, who’d e-mailed me from an H&M address, met me and my friend Christian, whom I brought along from London, at the door in a nice-looking outfit recognizable from one of a variety of commensurate urban enclaves: a fitted denim shirt, indigo knit tie and jeans cuffed up over handmade British boots.
111 2013-05-05 Senator John McCain said recent airstrikes just outside the Syrian capital were likely to increase pressure on President Obama to offer more forceful support to Syrian rebels....
112 2013-05-05 Tommy Haas will play the defending champion Philipp Kohlschreiber in the final of the BMW Open in Munich. The third-seeded Haas defeated Ivan Dodig of Croatia, 6-4, 6-3. Kohlschreiber edged Daniel Brands, 6-7 (4), 6-3, 7-6 (5), to set up the first all-German final in Munich in 48 years.

¶ Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova beat Spain’s Carla Suárez, 7-5, 6-2, to win the Portugal Open in Oeiras. Pavlyuchenkova, a 21-year-old Russian, won her second title of the year.
113 2013-05-05 The British rider Mark Cavendish won the opening stage of the Giro d’Italia on Saturday in a sprint finish. Cavendish, who rides for the Omega Pharma-Quick Step team, completed the circuit in Naples in 2 hours 58 minutes 38 seconds.

Cavendish will wear the overall leader’s pink jersey in Sunday’s second stage, a 10-mile team time trial on the island of Ischia.

The overall favorites Bradley Wiggins and Vincenzo Nibali, along with the defending champion, Ryder Hesjedal, finished safely in the main pack. The race ends May 26 in Brescia.
114 2013-05-05 Dr. Jessica Kraft Sayre, a daughter of Marcia Kraft-Sayre and Steven E. Sayre of Charlottesville, Va., was married there Saturday to Dr. Matthew John Meyer, a son of Teresa Canal Meyer and John H. Meyer of Shelburne, Vt. The Rev. Dr. Barry Penn Hollar, a Methodist minister, performed the ceremony at Panorama Farms, an event space.

The couple met at the University of Vermont, from which they each received a medical degree.

The bride, 29, is taking her husband’s name. She is a second-year pediatric resident at Hasbro Children’s Hospital in Providence, R.I. She graduated from the University of Virginia.

The bride’s father is a clinical social worker and a founding partner of Charlottesville Psychological Associates, a private practice. Her mother is a research scientist in early childhood education at the University of Virginia, also in Charlottesville.

The groom, also 29, is a research fellow in the anesthesia, critical care and pain medicine department of Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He graduated from Middlebury College.

The groom’s mother is a child psychologist in private practice in Shelburne. His father is a clinical mental health counselor also in private practice there.
115 2013-05-05 The Bulls followed the energetic lead of their center, Joakim Noah, who had 24 points and 14 rebounds and blocked six shots. After the game, Noah, grinning broadly, leapt into the crowd to hug his mother, Cecilia Rodhe.

“I’m so proud of this team,” he said. “All of these experiences I’ll never take for granted.”

In a dour and stunned Nets locker room, Williams tossed a crumbled score sheet to the floor. Joe Johnson, who shot 2 of 14 from the field and scored 6 points, barely whispered his explanation for what tied his lowest scoring output of the season.

“I was just out there trying to give the guys what I had,” Johnson said. “It was tough not being able to come through.”

The Nets entered Game 7 calm and confident, saying they believed that they were better than the Bulls — that they were better than the Bulls without the injuries and were certainly better than them now.

The bravado had some foundation. The Nets won 49 games this season, earning the fourth seed in the Eastern Conference with two of the N.B.A.’s highest-paid players, Williams and Johnson, and an All-Star center, Brook Lopez, at their core.

They also had a full roster at their disposal, unlike Chicago, which was missing the starters Kirk Hinrich (calf) and Luol Deng (illness) on Saturday, not to mention its franchise player, Derrick Rose, who has not played this season.

The Bulls got by mainly on heart and hustle, as well as the ingenuity of their coach, Tom Thibodeau, who was wringing a rolled-up statistics sheet in his hand for parts of the second half Saturday, looking the part of a mad scientist on the sidelines.

The Nets were undone by the same inconsistent swings that plagued them all season and all series. They made two field goals in the third quarter of Game 2. They missed 25 of 26 shots in the first half of Game 3. They shot 27 percent in the second half of Game 6.

On Saturday, they fell behind, 29-25, in the first quarter while relying on Williams, who scored or assisted on 15 of the team’s first 20 points, to engineer the offense. Lopez was quiet, and Johnson struggled.

The Bulls built up their lead in the second quarter, taking a 17-point lead into halftime. The crowd booed.

“They played like they weren’t ready for their season to end,” forward Gerald Wallace said. “They ran what they wanted, and we were on the back of our heels.”

After Game 6, Noah had sat at his locker and predicted the Bulls would win Game 7.

“We’re going to go into a hostile environment in Brooklyn,” Noah said, “and we’re going to win.”

It was a head-turning pronouncement. The Nets had won two straight, and the momentum was clearly in their favor. It tilted even further that way when Hinrich and Deng were announced out for Saturday’s game. But that hardly mattered.

The Nets opened the second half firing, and after a 21-8 rally, the score was 69-65. Wallace was explosive, flying to the rim for several emphatic slams and scoring 11 of his 19 points in the third quarter. The crowd was back into the game.

The Nets trailed by 7, at 82-75, entering the fourth quarter, but they missed their first six shots and quickly fell behind by 10. A layup-and-one by Williams with 2 minutes 26 seconds left cut the lead to 5, 93-88.

It was 95-90 entering the final minute, and with 40 seconds left Johnson missed a 3-pointer from the corner. Fans began gathering their belongings. A 3-pointer by Williams offered a glimmer of hope, but the season ended on a missed 25-foot 3-point attempt by Johnson with nine seconds remaining.

The Nets and the Bulls hugged at midcourt after the buzzer. After seven hard-fought games, which included moments of rage, there was nothing left in either tank.

The Bulls were exhausted but victorious. The Nets were humbled and muted. In Game 7 on their home court, with all on the line, the Nets never led.
116 2013-05-05 “It was known that these drugs were cell-killers: some of them were derived from mustard gas,” Dr. Harold E. Varmus, the current director of the National Cancer Institute and a winner of the 1989 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, said Friday. “They were developed initially as toxic agents, not different from drugs that were used in warfare.”

In the mid-1950s, Dr. Frei, along with Dr. Emil J. Freireich, a colleague at the National Cancer Institute, and others, began investigating a multipronged assault on childhood leukemia that entailed using these drugs in combination, with each attacking a different aspect of cancer-cell physiology.

As the two men and their colleagues found, administering a cocktail of anticancer drugs let each drug be given in smaller quantities. This mitigated the drugs’ toxic effects on the patient without diminishing their combined attack on the cancer.

“If you give 60 percent of each dose, it’s the same as giving 100 percent of one or the other,” said Dr. Freireich, who is now at M. D. Anderson. “But the effect on the tumor is additive.”

When Dr. Frei and Dr. Freireich began their work, childhood leukemia was invariably fatal. By 1965, after a decade of clinical trials and refinements, the methods they devised, which involved combining as many as four drugs, had increased the survival rate to about 40 percent five years after treatment.

Today, childhood leukemia has a long-term survival rate of more than 80 percent.

“There are recurrences, but the incidence is low,” Dr. Freireich said. “These are lifetime cures. Compared to the general population, their survival rate is the same as for people who hadn’t had leukemia.”

The two men then applied their approach to Hodgkin’s disease, also rendering it curable in many cases.

Emil Frei III, familiarly known as Tom, was born in St. Louis on Feb. 21, 1924.

In 1898, his paternal grandfather founded Emil Frei & Associates, a stained-glass company in the city that is still well known, and Emil III was expected to pursue the family calling. But he became interested in medicine in his youth after reading “Rats, Lice and History,” Hans Zinsser’s 1935 “biography” of typhus.

Serving in the Navy in World War II, he was sent for premedical studies at Colgate University and medical studies at Yale, from which he earned an M.D. in 1948. He later served with the Navy Medical Corps in the Korean War.

Dr. Frei joined the staff of the National Cancer Institute in the mid-1950s. He was later chief of the leukemia section and chief of medicine there.

In 1965, he moved to M. D. Anderson, where he was the associate scientific director of clinical research and the chairman of the division of experimental therapeutics. He joined the institute now known as Dana-Farber as physician in chief in 1972 and became its director the next year.

At all three institutions, Dr. Frei also trained a generation of researchers and clinicians.

Dr. Frei’s first wife, the former Elizabeth Smith, whom he married in 1948, died in 1986; his second wife, the former Adoria Smetana Brock, whom he married in 1987, died in 2009. Besides his daughter Judy, his survivors include three other daughters, Mary, Alice and Nancy Frei; a son, Emil IV; a brother, Bob; and 10 grandchildren.

In his Pulitzer Prize-winning book, “The Emperor of All Maladies: A Biography of Cancer,” published in 2010, the doctor and author Siddhartha Mukherjee wrote of Dr. Frei making rounds on a pediatric oncology ward.

“He was charming, soft-spoken and careful,” Dr. Mukherjee wrote. “To watch him manage critically ill children and their testy, nervous parents was to watch a champion swimmer glide through water — so adept in the art that he made artistry vanish.”

One of those children was Edward M. Kennedy Jr., a son of the Massachusetts senator. In 1973, at 12, young Ted Kennedy lost a leg to osteosarcoma, an aggressive form of bone cancer.

A patient of Dr. Frei’s at Dana-Farber, he underwent intensive chemotherapy for nearly two years afterward. He has remained free of cancer ever since.

“I honestly believe that Dr. Frei saved my life,” Mr. Kennedy, now 51 and a lawyer and disability rights advocate in New Haven, said in an interview on Thursday. “My father obviously had incredible resources in terms of being able to identify the most capable people. And of all the people in the world, he asked Dr. Frei to take care of me.”
117 2013-05-05 “We are very pleased with the progress and happy with what’s in the bill,” said Peter J. Muller, a former House aide who now works as the director of government relations at . “It addresses many of the issues we’ve been advocating for years.”

Now, along with other industry heavyweights, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the technology companies are trying to make sure the law gets passed — which explains the political-style television advertising campaign, sponsored by a group that has revealed no details about how much money it gets from its individual supporters.

The industry also hopes to get more from the deal by working to remove some regulatory restrictions in the proposal, including on hiring foreign workers and firing Americans.

Silicon Valley was once politically aloof before realizing in recent years that its future profits depended in part on battles here in Washington. Its effort to influence immigration legislation is one of its most sophisticated.

The technology industry “understands there’s probably not a tremendous amount of resistance to their part of the bill,” Mr. Rubio said in an interview last week, saying he welcomed the industry support. “But their future and getting the reform passed is tied to the overall bill.”

The bill has a good chance of winning passage in the Senate. The hardest sell will come in the House, where many conservative Republicans see the deal as too generous to immigrants who came to this nation illegally.

Rob Jesmer, a former top Republican Senate strategist who helps run the new Zuckerberg-backed nonprofit group that sponsored the Rubio ad, insisted that his organization’s push is based on the personal convictions of the executives who donated to the cause and who believe immigration laws need to be changed. Those convictions just happen to line up with what their corporations are lobbying for as well, he said.

“It will give a lot of people who are educated in this country who are already here a chance to remain in the United States,” Mr. Jesmer said, “and encourage entrepreneurs from all over the world to come to the United States and create jobs.”

The profound transition under way inside Silicon Valley companies is illustrated by their lobbying disclosure reports filed in Congress. Facebook’s lobbying budget swelled from $351,000 in 2010 to $2.45 million in the first three months of this year, while Google spent a record $18 million last year.

That boom in spending translates into hiring of top talent in the art of Washington deal-making. These companies have hired people like Joel D. Kaplan, a onetime deputy chief of staff in the Bush administration who now works for Facebook; , a former House Republican from New York who is now a Google lobbyist; and outside lobbyists like Steven Elmendorf, a former chief of staff to , a former House majority leader, who works for Facebook.

The immigration fight, which has unified technology companies perhaps more than any other issue, has brought the lobbying effort to new heights. The industry sees it as a fix to a stubborn problem: job vacancies, particularly for engineers.

“We are not able to fill all the jobs that we are creating,” Brad Smith, ’s general counsel, told the Senate Judiciary Committee late last month.

Chief executives met with to discuss immigration. Venture capitalists testified in Congress. Their lobbyists roamed the Senate corridors to make sure their appeals were considered in the closed-door negotiations among the Gang of Eight, which included Mr. Rubio and Senator , Democrat of New York, who have been particularly receptive.

In the many phone calls and hallway asides on Capitol Hill this year, those lobbyists realized that they had to give a little to get a lot of what they wanted. At the top of their wish list was an expansion of a temporary visa program called the H-1B, which allows companies to hire foreigners for jobs in the United States. There are a limited number of H-1Bs available each year, and competition for them is fierce.

Companies like Facebook and Intel use them largely to bring workers to their own offices. Consulting companies like Tata, based in India, use them to supply computer workers at American banks, oil companies and sometimes software firms.

Critics of H-1B visas point out that they mostly bring workers at the lowest pay scales. The technology industry’s main rivals in these negotiations were lawmakers who have long been critical of guest worker visa programs, chiefly Senator , Democrat of , and groups that represent American engineers.

Silicon Valley lobbyists told Senate negotiators they agreed that the H1-B visa system had been subject to abuse. Go after the companies that take advantage of guest worker visas and give us the benefit of the doubt, they told the Senate staff members, according to interviews with several lobbyists.

“You know and we know there are some bad people in this system,” is how Scott Corley, the president of Compete America, a technology industry coalition, recalled the conversation. “We are simply trying to make sure that as they are pursuing the rats they are not sinking the ship.”

That acknowledgment, several lobbyists said privately, helped unlock an impasse in negotiations.

What emerged was a Senate measure that allows American technology companies to procure many more skilled guest worker visas, raising the limit to 110,000 a year from 65,000 under current law, along with a provision to expand it further based on market demand. The bill would also allow these companies to move workers on guest visas more easily to permanent resident visas, freeing up more temporary visas for these companies.

But it requires them to pay higher wages for guest workers and to post job openings on a Web site, so Americans can have a chance at them. And it draws a line in the sand between these technology firms and the mostly Indian companies that supply computer workers on H-1B visas for short-term jobs at companies in the United States.

“This provision accomplishes the goal of discouraging abuse of the program while providing an important incentive for companies to bring top talent to work in the United States for the long-term, where they will contribute to our economy,” said Mr. Kaplan, the former Republican White House aide who is now the vice president for  public policy at Facebook.

The bill is written in such a way that it penalizes companies that have a large share of foreign guest workers among their United States work forces, eventually making it impossible for them to bring in any more. It allows large American companies that have many more American workers to continue to import workers. And it includes a provision that exempts from the guest worker count those employees that companies sponsor for green cards, essentially a bonus to American businesses like Facebook whose work forces are growing fast.

Companies that provide temporary foreign workers say the move is intended to push them out of the American market.

These companies, mostly based in India, have far less good will on Capitol Hill. Their hope now rests with convincing lawmakers that it would be counterproductive to punish them.

“Why are we in the United States? We are there because American corporations want us,” said Som Mittal, the president of the National Association of Software and Services Companies, which represents Indian companies. “We help them become competitive and serve their customers better.”

In interviews, Mr. Rubio and an aide to Mr. Schumer said the draft bill takes a balanced approach to penalize those who do not hire American workers for jobs here. They say the proposal is good for the country, even as it may benefit American technology firms.

In March, some of the biggest figures in the technology industry, including Mr. Zuckerberg, the Microsoft founder and the venture capitalist , unveiled a new nonprofit advocacy group, called Fwd.Us, with its first mission being to push Congress to overhaul immigration law. The group has hired lobbyists and a staff of veteran political operatives.

One of its first campaigns was to bankroll the television ad for Mr. Rubio. Two other ads backed Senator , Republican of , and Senator , Democrat of , who is considered a critical swing vote, in a state where there are many critics of the legislation. Mr. Jesmer said the group spent “in the seven figures” on the ads.

Mr. Rubio has been a vocal ally. He says he understands the industry’s need for talent and wants to prevent companies from having to ship work overseas.

To negotiate the details on the immigration bill, Mr. Rubio hired Enrique Gonzalez, who took a leave from a law firm that handles H-1B visa applications for many technology companies. Mr. Gonzalez said the assignment presented no conflict of interest because he works with universities handling visas, not technology companies.

The fact that technology lobbyists were given an unusual degree of access to the negotiators on the bill is entirely justified, he said. “Because of the unique needs of the technology industry, the newness of it, the novelty of a lot of the issues they are confronting, I think that was why there were more engaged than some of the other industries were,” he said.
118 2013-05-05 Yet it is crucial to have some reward system in place for medical innovators. Well in advance of a pandemic, research needs to be done, and vaccine capacity and drug distribution facilities need to be built up. In the H.I.V./AIDS crisis, for instance, the United States was caught flat-footed — and an appropriate response has taken decades, in part because we were not prepared. Without government financing for such public goods, the capacity wouldn’t be there if a new pandemic produced a surge in demand. This would amount to an institutional failure.

The government could also take another, more unusual step: it could promise to pay lucrative prices for the patents on drugs and vaccines that prove useful in dealing with pandemics. The point of buying the patent is to distribute the remedy, if needed, as widely and as cheaply as possible. If the pandemic never occurs, the reward wouldn’t have to be paid. But the very promise of such a reward might induce suppliers to take the risk of increasing capacity in advance.

Without such a government promise, private patents could easily lead to very high prices and limited distribution, as has already occurred for some cancer drugs, which are being sold to patients for more than $100,000 a year.

If anyone doubted a government pledge to pay big money for the rights to remedies, the patent’s value could be established by a competitive auction. Michael Kremer, a Harvard economics professor, outlined the procedure for such an auction in his research paper “Patent Buyouts.”

The government should resist the strong temptation to skimp on rewards. Many health care breakthroughs come through university research programs and government grants, but bringing an innovation to fruition and managing wide and rapid distribution usually requires the profit-seeking private sector. In any single instance, the government could save money by confiscating rights, but in the longer run this would discourage the search for additional remedies.

If anything, the American government — or, better yet, a consortium of governments — should pay more for pandemic remedies than what market-based auctions would yield. That’s because, if a major pandemic does arise, other countries may not respect intellectual property rights as they scramble to copy a drug or vaccine for domestic distribution. To encourage innovations, policy makers need to bolster the expectation of rewards.

How many drugs should we cover with such prizes, and then distribute free or at minimal charge? It’s an interesting but perhaps insoluble moral question. But in the meantime, economics can offer practical advice. If the remedy is a public good, as is the case in fighting a communicable disease, the value of widespread treatment will make cheap distribution a good idea.

Unfortunately, the United States lacks strong political coalitions for many beneficial public health measures. The Democratic Party has focused on insurance coverage and Medicaid expansion as political issues, while often wishing to lower prices of drugs or to weaken patent protection. The Obama administration’s new budget lowers spending on pharmaceuticals by an estimated $164 billion over 10 years, mostly through bargaining down Medicare drug prices. That makes it hard for the Democrats to embrace lucrative rewards for pharmaceutical companies or vaccine producers.

Nor can we expect much on pandemic preparation from the current Republican Party, which has been focusing its fiscal conservatism on discretionary spending. That means disproportionate cuts for public health and research and development. This decision can be seen as at odds with a true conservative philosophy, which usually embraces the provision of public goods like a strong military and general national security. Such goods can also serve the purpose of protecting against bioterror.

OVER all, the American government seems to be turning its back on its traditional role of producing and investing in national public goods. If there is any consistent tendency in recent government spending, it is that spending on entitlements like Social Security and Medicare — which provide mostly private benefits — is rising and that investment and spending on national public goods is falling.

As a budget category, “government consumption and gross investment” is a proxy for many kinds of public goods spending. As a share of gross domestic product, it has fallen to less than 19 percent, from a peak of 24 percent in the 1980s, with no expected reversal in sight. Yet total government spending is expected to increase because of income transfers and entitlements. Neither political party seems able to halt that logic or even cares to make an issue of it.

Focusing government on the production of public goods may sound like a trivial issue, too obvious to be worth a mention. But, in fact, we have been failing at it, and the consequences could be serious indeed.
119 2013-05-05 AN Arab friend remarked to me that watching the United States debate how much to get involved in reminded him of an Arab proverb: “If you burn your tongue once eating soup, for the rest of your life you’ll blow on your yogurt.”

After burning our tongues in and , and watching with increasing distress the aftermath of the revolutions in , and , is right to be cautious about getting burned in Damascus. We’ve now seen enough of these Arab transitions from autocracy to draw some crucial lessons about what it takes to sustain positive change in these countries. We ignore the lessons at our peril — especially the lesson of Iraq, which everyone just wants to forget but is hugely relevant.

Syria is Iraq’s twin: an artificial state that was also born after World War I inside lines drawn by imperial powers. Like Iraq, Syria’s constituent communities — Sunnis, Alawite/Shiites, Kurds, Druze, Christians — never volunteered to live together under agreed rules. So, like Iraq, Syria has been ruled for much of its modern history by either a colonial power or an iron-fisted autocrat. In Iraq, the hope was that once the iron-fisted dictator was removed by us it would steadily transition to a multisectarian, multiparty democracy. Ditto for Egypt, Libya, Tunisia and .

But we now see the huge difference between Eastern Europe in 1989 and the Arab world in 2013. In most of Eastern Europe, the heavy lid of communist authoritarian rule was suppressing broad and deeply rooted aspirations for democracy. So when that lid was removed, most of these countries relatively quickly moved to freely elected governments — helped and inspired by the .

In the Arab world, in contrast, the heavy lid of authoritarianism was suppressing sectarian, tribal, Islamist and democratic aspirations. So, when the lids were removed, all four surfaced at once. But the Islamist trend has been the most energetic — helped and inspired not by the European Union but by Islamist mosques and charities in the Persian Gulf — and the democratic one has proved to be the least organized, least funded and most frail. In short, most of Eastern Europe turned out to be like after communism ended and most of the Arab countries turned out to be like Yugoslavia after communism ended.

As I said, our hope and the hope of the courageous Arab democrats who started all these revolutions, was that these Arab countries would make the transition from Saddam to Jefferson without getting stuck in Khomeini or Hobbes — to go from autocracy to democracy without getting stuck in Islamism or anarchism.
120 2013-05-05 Jimmy Connors showed signs of obsessive compulsive disorder and ocular motor sensory deficit as a child, long before he realized they were serious problems. He tried Gamblers Anonymous to curb a “fix” that still itches and took his grandmother’s advice as a mantra: “Keep a little mystery about yourself in life.”

Connors has finally decided to let the real world into the sanctuary he created on and off a tennis court. “The Outsider,” an autobiography to be published by HarperCollins on May 14, is an engrossing five-setter on clay, with intense exchanges and no tiebreakers.

Connors, 60, makes few apologies for his aggressive style and behavior, although he does acknowledge several indiscretions, personal and professional. Not surprising, he also lines up friends and foes — some based on loyalties and others on perceptions that only someone with his East St. Louis/Belleville, Ill., background and take it-or-leave-it mentality could justify.

“The way I played tennis was very frequently selfish,” he writes.

He also borrows liberally from his overly protective mother, Gloria Connors, and a loving grandmother, Brenda Thompson, whom he called Two-Mom and who repeatedly told him, “You can get away with anything if you win.” These strong, determined women, along with his wife, Patti, emerge as the foundations in Connors’s often turbulent life. How many wives would stand for their husbands’ squandering $70,000 in tennis winnings on one hand of blackjack?

The Connors voice in this 401-page account can be brash and defiant, far different in tone and temperament from most traditional sports memoirs. But Connors is not Andre Agassi trying to chronicle a transformation; Connors even rifles a few crisp crosscourt passing shots at Agassi, whose 2009 confessional was No. 1 on the New York Times best-seller list. Agassi, Connors writes, “was never my kind of guy,” labeling his substance-over-style turnabout “nothing but an act.”

Connors thrilled fans during his Hall of Fame career, which included 8 Grand Slam singles crowns, 109 tournament titles, 160 consecutive weeks as the No. 1 men’s player in the world and countless comebacks against players like Bjorn Borg and John McEnroe, and Mikael Pernfors and Aaron Krickstein. Those fans will feel rewarded with his I-did-it-my-way theme. The unconditional love for his two children and six dogs (whom he calls “in-house shrinks”), and the ability to rebound from assorted injuries and family travails, may even surprise and touch readers.
121 2013-05-05 According to the Elias Sports Bureau, strikeouts in baseball have risen for eight consecutive months. In April, major league teams recorded 5,992 strikeouts, or 15.29 a game, the second-highest average ever for a month.

The Braves started the season 12-1 with splendid pitching and a home run barrage. They lead in the N.L. in strikeouts (266) and are tied for first in home runs (40). The six-time All-Star Brian McCann has not played since off-season shoulder surgery, Heyward is on the disabled list after an appendectomy, and second baseman Dan Uggla and outfielder B. J. Upton have not been hitting their weight.

Atlanta had six straight games with double-digit strikeouts, including three games in Detroit in which they totaled 39. And the Braves have won just one game in which they did not hit a home run. But they draw their share of walks — they are tied for fourth in the N.L. — so it is not easy to cast them as undisciplined.

“The best teams at striking out strike out six times a game,” General Manager Frank Wren said. (The league average was 7.3.) “The worst strike out eight and a half times a game. It’s one or two strikeouts a game that is the difference between the best and the worst. When you are having a rough stretch, it’s a focus.”

The walks, the strikeouts and the home runs can make the Braves a confounding team to pitch against.

Gio Gonzalez, a Washington Nationals left-hander, stood on the Turner Field mound last Tuesday and shook his head. One moment, the Braves swung early in the count, and then they sat in the weeds taking pitches. In the first inning, the Braves hit a home run, walked twice, struck out twice and doubled on a pitch out of the strike zone.

“They’re seeing the ball pretty good, and then all of a sudden, they are swinging and missing,” Gonzalez said after the Nationals’ 8-1 loss. “They were being aggressive, then all of a sudden, they weren’t.”

The Braves do not seem troubled by their frequent slow walks back to the dugout.

Manager Fredi Gonzalez said: “Does it bother me? There are certain times during a course of a game it does, because it’s not a productive out. When it happens with a man on third base and less than two outs and the defense is back, that bothers me.”

Greg Walker, the Braves’ veteran hitting coach, cannot describe what is taking place any better than the manager can.

“It’s early,” he said. “I don’t even know who we are yet. I do know this: We are going to get better offensively.”

Walker said he stressed to his hitters not to swing at pitches outside the strike zone and to follow a consistent path to the ball with the bat. He understands that he does not have a lineup that is going to pepper the ball around the field with Uggla, Freeman, Justin Upton, B. J. Upton and the 6-foot-4, 235-pound rookie catcher Evan Gattis.

“We’re not going to turn ourselves into a high-average team,” Walker said. “There is a time and a place for cutting it back. We’re not going to be that team to get a bunch of base hits and put guys in scoring position. That’s not us.”
122 2013-05-05 In Lebanon, some analysts said they believed that a strong Hezbollah could also emerge as a powerful ally for Mr. Assad if he is forced to abandon Damascus, the Syrian capital, and take refuge in a rump Iranian-backed state on the Syrian coast, a region that abuts the Hezbollah-controlled northern Bekaa Valley.

“The relationship between Hezbollah and the Assad regime is stronger now,” said Talal Atrissi, a professor at Lebanese University in Beirut who has good relations with Hezbollah. If Mr. Assad falls, Hezbollah knows the axis of Syria, Hezbollah and Iran will be greatly weakened, he said.

Israel, for its part, has repeatedly cautioned that it will not allow Hezbollah to receive “game changing” weapons that could threaten the Israeli heartland even if a new Syrian government takes power.

As the Obama administration considers how to dissuade Mr. Assad from ordering a chemical weapons attack — the use of such weapons, the White House has said, would cross a “red line” — Israel, by striking the warehouse, is clearly showing that it is prepared to stand behind the red lines it has set.

“The Israelis are saying, ‘O.K., whichever way the civil war is going, we are going to keep our red lines, which are different from Obama’s,’ ” said Ehud Yaari, an Israel-based fellow of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.

On Friday, SANA, the official Syrian news agency, reported an attack on the Damascus airport by Syrian rebels firing rockets at an aircraft and fuel dump — an account that American officials say may have been intended to obscure the fact that the target was a warehouse full of missiles.

An American official, who asked not to be identified because he was discussing intelligence reports, said the targeted shipment consisted of Iranian-made Fateh-110s — a mobile, accurate, solid-fueled missile that has the range to strike Tel Aviv and much of Israel from southern Lebanon, and that represents a considerable improvement over the liquid-fueled Scud missile. Two prominent Israeli defense analysts said the shipment included Scud Ds, a missile that Syrians have developed from Russian weapons with a range of up to 422 miles — long enough to reach Eilat, in southernmost Israel, from Lebanon.

Syrian forces loyal to Mr. Assad have used Fateh-110 missiles against the Syrian opposition. Some American officials are unsure whether the new shipment was intended for use by Hezbollah or by the Assad government, which is believed to be running low on missiles in its bloody civil war. But one American official said the warehouse that was struck in the Israeli attack overnight Thursday was believed to be under the control of operatives from Hezbollah and Iran’s paramilitary Quds Force.

Hezbollah is now believed to have more missiles and fighters than it had before its 2006 battle with Israel, when Hezbollah missiles forced a third of Israel’s population into shelters and hit as far south as Haifa. A Pentagon official said in 2010 that Hezbollah’s arsenal was believed to include a small number of Fateh-110s, and additional shipments would add to Hezbollah’s striking power.

In carrying out the raid overnight Thursday, Israeli warplanes fired air-to-ground weapons, apparently staying clear of Syrian airspace and operating in the skies over neighboring Lebanon.

A spokesman for the Israeli Embassy in Washington declined to acknowledge the attack, saying only in a statement, “Israel is determined to prevent the transfer of chemical weapons or other game-changing weaponry by the Syrian regime to terrorists, especially to Hezbollah in Lebanon.”

In late January, Israel carried out a similar airstrike in Syria, which it also refused to publicly confirm, that used similar tactics, including a route over Lebanon, according to a former senior American official. The January attack was against a convoy carrying SA-17 antiaircraft weapons, which were supplied by Russia. The transfer of those weapons to Hezbollah would jeopardize the Israeli Air Force’s ability to operate over Lebanon.

On Sunday, the Syrian government said that the Israelis had launched a missile attack against the military complex at Jamraya just outside Damascus overnight.

Large blasts sent towering plumes of flame and smoke into the night sky above Qasioun Mountain, which towers over downtown Damascus, according to residents and videos posted by opposition activists. The videos showed multiple explosions over a period of several minutes, suggesting that more than one target may have been hit.

The mountain is home to an array of Syrian military facilities, including military research centers, and is the source of much of the government shelling of rebel positions in the suburbs. Residents and activists said the explosions struck the mountain headquarters of the army’s Fourth Division, the elite and feared unit run by the president’s brother Maher, as well as al-Hamah, where the command of the Republican Guard, one of the government’s elite forces, is located.

Ikhbariya television, a state-owned channel, asserted that Israeli had carried out the strikes. “The new Israeli attack is an attempt to raise the morale of the terrorist groups which have been tottering after facing strikes by our noble army,” the station said.The government has long said that the uprising against it was fueled by foreign-backed “terrorists” and served Israeli and American interests.

Israeli officials had no comment on the explosions. Nor did American officials, who signaled that the United States did not carry out the attack.

“They are definitely going after military facilities on or around Qasioun,” said Andrew J. Tabler, an expert on Syria as the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. “There are a lot of research and military facilities there that are tied into the command and control structure of the regime.”

“It is unprecedented and something all of Damascus can see,” he added, stressing that it would likely have an important political impact in Syria.

The Jamraya complex, the Syrian Scientific Studies and Research Center, is Syria’s main research center for work on biological and chemical weapons, American officials have said, raising questions about whether the motivation for the attack went beyond stopping the flow of arms to Hezbollah. The Israeli raid in January was in the same area and the complex suffered moderate damage in that attack.

Israel’s official silence reveals the broader dilemma it faces in how to handle Syria’s upheaval. After 40 years of quiet on its northeastern border, Israel is now deeply worried about violence spilling over into its territory and about a post-Assad Syria being a vast, ungoverned area controlled by Islamist or jihadist groups, with no central authority to control militant activity.

But leaders in Jerusalem believe that they have few options beyond the targeted airstrikes, seeing greater military intervention as likely to backfire by uniting anti-Israel forces.

President Obama, who is traveling in Central America, said  Israel was entitled to defend itself from its enemies.

“The Israelis, justifiably, have to guard against the transfer of advanced weaponry to terrorist organizations like Hezbollah,” he told the Spanish-language TV station Telemundo.

Few experts expect the Israeli airstrike to put an end to Iran’s attempts to ship arms to Syria and its Hezbollah ally. Jonathan Spyer, an expert on Syria and Hezbollah at the Interdisciplinary Center in Herzliya, Israel, predicted more attempts to transfer weapons — and Israeli efforts to stop them.

“Clearly Hezbollah is hoping to benefit from its engagement in Syria, and clearly Israel is committed to preventing that,” said Mr. Spyer, who noted that Israel was taking a “calculated risk” that its limited intervention would provoke only a limited response, if any.

Certainly, nothing in recent comments by Hezbollah’s leader, Hassan Nasrallah, suggested that his organization would pull back from its support of Mr. Assad or its alliance with Iran.

Days before the Israeli strike, Mr. Nasrallah issued some of his strongest statements yet of support for Mr. Assad, edging closer to confirming what the Obama administration has already reported: that Hezbollah is backing him militarily, not merely tolerating border crossings by some of its members to defend Lebanese citizens in Syria, as Hezbollah has officially maintained.

Mr. Nasrallah said Hezbollah — using the word “we” — would not allow Syria to fall to an armed assault that he said was backed by the United States and Israel, and added that the party was defending civilians of all sects in Qusayr, a city in Homs Province near the Lebanese border, where rebels say Hezbollah has led recent battles against them.
123 2013-05-05 Sandra Tsing Loh, 51, a writer, radio personality and the mother of two tween daughters in the Los Angeles area, said: “All the boundaries have broken down. Facebook is constantly sending alerts of what they’re up to: liking and commenting and posting and sharing, like squirrels pecking away. But when their mothers are reading, it’s way too much information.”

For many adults, the Internet poses a vast array of potential privacy infringements, not all of which are readily defined or understood. But for teenagers the threat is clear: Big Mother.

And Big Father. The author Dan Savage refers to it as “the burden of knowing.” He and his husband are what he calls “very heavy-duty monitors”(“kind of the fascist parents”) of their 15-year-old son. “Children leave a digital trail, and you feel like a negligent parent if you’re not monitoring,” Mr. Savage said. “What we’re trying to balance is not knowing everything we can know, which is everything, and giving our son some leeway to make mistakes without dying in the process. It’s horrifying.”

Yes, we know contemporary parents are hyperinvolved in their children’s lives. But the term “helicopter parent,” with its menacing tones of parental omniscience, has nothing on the intimate reach of the cyberparent. A helicopter hovers above, at a safe distance, with lots of insulating air between. Cyberparents, on the other hand, are squished right up next to their offspring.

Some parents use the “fly on the wall” approach, monitoring regularly or checking in periodically, without comment either online or off. Others prefer the “pick your battles” method, reserving action for moments when a sister says, “Hmm, I saw that picture your daughter posted” or an impolitic slang phrase is flung online in an iffy manner. Then there are the polar extreme tactics of “head in the sand” and “not until you’re 18.”

Schools across the country constantly run workshops, often with a range of perspectives, to help straggling parents. A growing number of companies have also popped up to assist parents in navigating the landscape, whether it is supervising their children’s online behavior or maximizing their privacy settings. The home page of one of these “parental intelligence” firms, uKnow.com, states its role as: “Helping mom and dad understand their child’s use of technology, and protect their safety, privacy and reputation.”

Such programs are not about digital spying, said Tim Woda, a founder of uKnow.com and its senior vice president for strategic growth. “That would just teach children that being sneaky and underhanded is O.K. as long as it’s for a good reason,” he said.

Instead, children see the app installed on their devices, which helps them self-censor. “Our customers just want to understand what’s happening in their kids’ world,” he said, “and so much of it is online that unless they get inside, they’re in the dark.”

A majority of parents of teenagers have at least tried to maintain some degree of control. According to a 2012 study of 802 parents of teenagers by the Pew Internet Project, 59 percent of parents of teenagers on social-networking sites have talked to their child because they were concerned about something posted to their profile or account, and 42 percent have searched for their child’s name online to see what information is out there.

Most parents recognize the hypocrisy in their roving curiosity. “When I was a 15-year-old seminarian in Chicago, I was sneaking into gay bars, which were not nice places back then,” Mr. Savage said. “If I’d had that on my Instagram and e-mails, my parents would have murdered me.”

“Flaming mean 6th graders on Facebook,” began a furious post Ms. Tsing Loh wrote on Facebook last spring, which continued, “One of the most notable features of Facebook, I find, is that now a mother can see, in real time, festivals of ‘Lord of the Flies’ meanness and piling up upon say one’s cool and sweet 11-year-old child.” Ms. Tsing Loh described the anguish of watching children she had shepherded to the Cheesecake Factory since kindergarten post unkind things about her child. (Among them: her daughter is “Facebook friends with Mommy.”)

Parents describe finding out things they had rather not have known. One quick glance at Instagram, and they may not want that lovely girl they welcomed at their weekend house several times last summer to return. You wouldn’t believe what that boy, the one who is a lifeguard at the town pool, said about a 12-year-old in her bikini. And who is rolling a spliff on the 14-year-old neighbor’s Tumblr?

No established guidelines exist for what parents do with this material. Should they riposte? Comment? Call another child’s parent? In the Pew study, half of parents who use social media themselves have responded to comments or posts on a child’s profile.

Kuae Kelch Mattox, national president of Mocha Moms Inc., and the mother of three children (two of whom use social media), is careful to ask her children if it’s all right to tag them in the “proud parent” photos she posts on her own profile page. “If I set a tone for mutual respect, I think it will be reciprocated,” she said.

According to a 2011 Pew survey, children expressed a decided ambivalence about having their parents friend them on social networks. “I don’t want to friend her but she like friended me,” a 13-year-old girl told an interviewer.

For some children, having Mom or Aunt Jessie comment is just plain embarrassing. “Someone will change their status update to ‘going to the park’ and then you’ll see 80 family members saying, ‘Have fun at the park,’ ” complained another 13-year-old. Who invited Mom and Dad to the party anyway?

For parents, embarrassing their children is generally the least of it. Many are already in an outright panic over what their children do online. The worst-case scenarios involve predators and others who would inflict serious harm. According to the 2012 Pew poll, 72 percent of parents are very or somewhat concerned about their children’s interactions with strangers online. Then there are the twin teenage boogeymen of the Internet age: cyberbullying and sexting. One voguish form of torment among kids online is setting up fake accounts (identity-theft light, since no money is involved) for other children, and posting photographs and comments in their names.

When Anna Berry’s 13-year-old daughter was in fifth grade, the family learned that a classmate was impersonating the child online. The doppelgänger put her birthday, address and photos taken at their daughter’s school in Littleton, Colo., onto Facebook, with no security settings, and began to friend other children. Ms. Berry watched in horror as her daughter, who wasn’t even on the site then, saw posts in her name go online.

“You could see the tears rolling down her cheeks, the sense of violation,” she recalled. Two years later, Ms. Berry’s daughter is allowed on Facebook, but not to friend children from school. “I don’t want the drama,” she said.

Then there is the typical teenage bad behavior offline that the Internet broadcasts to the world and codifies for the ages. Even low-lying infractions like suggestive posing and graphic language gain potency when addressed to hundreds of thousands of viewers.

“I don’t like the cursing,” Ms. Mattox said. “I’ve said to them, ‘Did you really have to say that?’ and it’s: ‘Oh, Mom, you don’t have to be there. You don’t have to read it.’ ” On another occasion, she saw her daughter posting updates from her phone well after bedtime. For a while, she and husband took the phone away at night.

But no matter how much today’s lurking parents may find out, there is a great deal else going on in cyberspace that they aren’t aware of. Teenagers (though not all parents) realize they can dictate who sees what on Facebook. And a good number of tweens and teenagers have already migrated from “their parent’s Facebook” to zippier sites like Snapchat, Instagram and Tumblr, all of which feel less welcoming to the 20th reunion crowd.

“What I’ve found out is, they know how to shut you out,” Ms. Sanders said. “I don’t have the access codes to my daughter’s Tumblr account, so unless she leaves them open, I know nothing about her Tumblr life.” Occasionally, Ms. Sanders has asked her daughter for the codes, but her daughter then changes them. Like most savvy parents, Ms. Sanders has installed parental controls on the family computers, but has found the phrase “how to take parental controls off” in their search history.

Parents also say that while they may be subjected to too much information online, insight into the offline world of their children has become spotty and opaque. The family phone is no longer the gateway to communication. Parents no longer know who is calling their children, nor can they glean insight from overheard snippets of conversation, tearful exchanges and slammed receivers.

“Sometimes I think we know less,” said Wendy Weinstein Karp, a mother of two children in Larchmont, N.Y. “A friend will be sleeping over, and suddenly someone is rushing down to the door because they’re all in touch with each other on their gadgets. People come and go from the house, and you have no idea what’s going on. We’re less in control of the information.”

It may be small consolation, but often, the feelings of shock, intrusion and disapproval are mutual. June Jewell, 51, a small-business owner from Vienna, Va., said her daughter will see a photo of her mother on Facebook and complain, “Why did you post that?” Ms. Jewell will put up evidence of herself singing karaoke and her daughter will respond, “You’re embarrassing me!” Ms. Jewell, who has three children active on social media, said nobody wants to think their parents are cool. “What’s funny is that her friends follow me on Twitter and they’re not critical at all.”

As far as she knows.
124 2013-05-05 Since then, Mr. Finley has been thrust into the unlikely role of pavement-pounding Johnny Appleseed. His talk has received almost 900,000 views on TED’s Web site and his message that edible gardens are the antidote to inner-city health issues, poverty and gang violence (“if you ain’t a gardener, you ain’t gangsta,” he told the crowd) has gone supernova.

The talk show host Carson Daly, the actress and the celebrated Danish chef René Redzepi were among hundreds of new admirers issuing shout-outs on .

stopped by Mr. Finley’s house, Russell Brand put him on his late-night talk show, and corporations like Reebok, , Stihl and Toms Shoes had collaboration ideas. A graduate student asked to write a dissertation about Mr. Finley, who, to his , has kept an eyebrow arched over his newfound fame.

“All the attention in the world won’t do my dishes,” he said.

“Ron is compelling, funny and completely authentic in his quest to redefine what’s possible in areas where there’s no nature to be seen,” said Chris Anderson, the TED curator who helped select Mr. Finley as one of 34 speakers discovered during a worldwide talent search that drew thousands of applicants last year. “He takes on the depressing narrative that our inner cities are irretrievably decaying. Watching him fight back rewires your worldview.”

Mr. Finley, who grew up with seven siblings near the intersection of Florence and Normandie Avenues, where the 1992 Los Angeles riots began, aligns more with graffiti artists like Risk and Retna, both friends of Mr. Finley’s, than with English horticulturalists of yore. Neat rows of zucchini are for grandmas. His gardens have spirals, color, fragrance and curves, and, to him, soil is sensuous. “How much more sexy can it get than you eating food that you grew?” Mr. Finley asked.

In a city where an elite few fuss over $13 plates of escarole wedges, too many others eat at 98-cent stores and drive-throughs or go hungry altogether. Mr. Finley estimates that the City of Los Angeles owns 26 square miles of vacant lots, an area equivalent to 20 Central Parks, with enough space for 724,838,400 tomato plants.

His radical fix is to take back that land and plant it, even if it’s the skinny strip between concrete and curb.

It was the barren 150-by-10-foot median outside Mr. Finley’s house that inspired his first act of crab grass defiance. In 2010, he planted a sidewalk garden to reduce grocery expenses and to avoid the 45-minute round-trip to .

“I wanted a carrot without toxic ingredients I didn’t know how to spell,” he said.

A few months later, neighbors were gawking in delight at the sight of pumpkins, peppers, sunflowers, kale and corn in an area better known for hubcap shops. Late one night, Mr. Finley, who is a single father, noticed a mother and daughter sneaking food from his garden. He conceived L.A. Green Grounds as a way to share the abundance with people like them.

The city was less magnanimous. As do other metropolitan areas, Los Angeles owns the “parkways” that run alongside the curb, and the Bureau of Street Services cited Mr. Finley for gardening on his median without the required $400 permit.

Outraged, he and a band of green-thumbed activists petitioned a member of the City Council, who convinced the city to back off.

“People in my neighborhood are so disconnected from the fresh food supply that kids don’t know an eggplant from a sweet potato,” Mr. Finley said. “We have to show them how to get grounded in the truest sense of the word.”

That missionary zeal got Mr. Finley noticed by Jesse Dylan, a filmmaker whose company made a short video about the gardener’s City Hall battle. It helped that Mr. Finley is a magnetic character. He motors around town in a three-wheeled Can-Am Spyder roadster, often dressed in the couture garments he designs for his clothing company, the Dropdead Collexion. His storehouse of African-American entertainment memorabilia is considered one of the country’s most impressive, at least by Mr. Finley.

“Ron’s got a deep and feisty spirit,” Mr. Dylan said. “He’s a modern with attitude.”

On a sparkling Saturday morning in March, Mr. Finley was overseeing a “dig-in” in Baldwin Hills with around 20 volunteers from L.A. Green Grounds. “We’re usually begging people, but this time we had 300 requests,” he said.

After a few hours of working with donated shovels, mulch and seedlings, the team transformed a backyard tangle of weeds and pale grass into an outdoor salad bar offering Japanese eggplant, black tomatoes, Swiss chard, red kale, dragon kale and plum trees. It was organic proof of Mr. Finley’s second most indelible line from TED, that “growing your own food is like printing your own money.” (His most memorable line is not suitable for printing here.)

Mr. Finley now faces the challenge of living up to the hype. “The world is behind Ron, and it’s wonderful that his efforts and instincts intersect with latent support,” said Ben Goldhirsh, a co-founder and chief executive of GOOD, a publishing and marketing business that promotes social causes, and whose Goldhirsh Foundation plans to give Mr. Finley a grant. “The question is how to convert that energy into outcomes. Ron’s got a lot of energy and ability. It’s up to him whether he can harness that for the long slog.”

With a shovel in one hand and a cellphone full of new messages in the other, Mr. Finley appeared to have as many plans as there are seeds in the new garden.

“I want to plant entire blocks of vegetable beds,” he said, back in preacher mode. “I want to turn shipping containers into healthy cafes where customers can pick their salad and juice off the trees. I want our inner-city churches to become ministries of health instead of places that serve up fried, fattening foods. I want to clean up my yard, my street and my ’hood.”

The neighbors are certainly responding. In April, a local clinic pictured in his PowerPoint slide show at TED wrote to say it had more than 200 volunteers ready to serve Mr. Finley’s cause. “It’s definitely a start,” he said. “Although the kind of support this community needs might eventually put them out of business.”

If nothing else, Mr. Finley hopes to use his moment in the spotlight to give the next generation an alternative. “I wish,” he said, “somebody had told me, ‘don’t go down that street,’ or ‘find yourself a mentor,’ so that’s a role I’m trying to play.”

The future he envisions is full of shovels, not guns, and mint and marjoram instead of drugs.

“I saw a kid walking down the street listening to music when he came face to face with one of my giant Russian Mammoth sunflowers,” Mr. Finley said. “He said, ‘Yo, is that real?’ ”

“He thought it was a prop or something. That’s what I want on my streets. Flowers so big and magnificent, they’ll blow a kid’s mind.”
125 2013-05-05 The body that covers the structure is the Rapide’s greatest asset. This is a ridiculously sleek car; the shape doesn’t merely cut through the air but slices it into fillets. It’s so perfectly and provocatively proportioned that at first sight the rear doors are easily overlooked. Compared with the Rapide, the Panamera looks like a sausage.

But there was something generic in the appearance of the original Rapide; the nose was too bland and ordinary. So the Rapide S gets a new front end with a revised hood, sparkly LED headlamps and an open-face aluminum grille that looks more substantial and ferocious than before. And the rear deck now concludes in a ducktail spoiler. Over all, the Rapide S seems more serious and mechanical than before. It’s no longer a rolling sculpture, it’s now a muscular beast.

To meet European pedestrian-protection regulations, Aston has moved the engine down by three-quarters of an inch. That’s about the only thing that’s down about the engine, though. Thanks to revised cylinder heads and a few electronic tweaks, output has swollen from the original’s 470 horsepower. But it’s the quality of that power that distinguishes the Aston from German hot rods like the 560-horsepower BMW M5, the 550-horse Mercedes-Benz E63 AMG or Porsche’s top-of-the-line 550-horse Panamera Turbo S.

The Germans have been moving from high-revving naturally breathing V-8s to turbocharged V-8s that make their power at relatively low engine speeds. In contrast, the Aston V-12 needs to be spun up to make power; the peak torque of 457 pound-foot comes at a thumping 5,500 r.p.m. and maximum horsepower at 6,750 r.p.m.

And the engine loves to romp at those elevated speeds. As the engine builds speed it sends out a thrilling tenor trill that the driver can feel as a vibration at the base of the skull. Making an upshift with the paddles behind the steering wheel feels like directing a choir to drop an octave. Such a move is so aurally satisfying that for a moment the horrifying mileage ratings — 13 m.p.g. in the city and 19 on the highway — seem almost reasonable. But leaving the transmission to shift itself in automatic mode makes the car feel relatively lazy. This is a powertrain that needs its master’s spur to stay engaged.

The steering is a touch heavy, but the rack itself is quick and communicative, and that helps the big car feel smaller than it is. At the limits of adhesion the Rapide S will push its nose through a corner. But if this Aston is going quick enough to test those limits, it’s either on a racetrack or fleeing a crime scene.

Car and Driver measured the Rapide S, which weighs 4,410 pounds, ripping to 60 miles per hour in just 4.7 seconds and blitzing the quarter mile in 13.1 seconds at 111 m.p.h. There are quicker four-doors — the all-wheel-drive Panamera Turbo S runs to 60 m.p.h. in 3.3 seconds — but none that perform such feats more flamboyantly.

But that melodrama severely compromises other aspects of the Rapide S. All four doors swing up as they open to ensure that every entry and exit is an event, but actually lowering in under the low roof takes care, and hauling the doors back down to close them would be easier with a rope and a grappling hook.

Looking forward from the driver’s seat, the roof is so low that it’s hard to see overhead traffic signals, and the pillars are so thick that a Hummer can hide behind them. But that’s still better than the rearward view that, if it were any more restricted, would be nonexistent. Cargo room is negligible under the hatchback.

The cockpit can feel claustrophobic with all four occupants in narrow seats fitted between a center tunnel and thick side sills. It’s a beautifully crafted and decorated space, all covered in carbon fiber and beautifully stitched leather, but it’s not a sumptuous luxury environment. This is, instead, a distinctive, eccentric and theatrical four-door sports car. It should be appreciated as such.

With a few options aboard, including a Bang & Olufsen stereo, the test car’s total price came to $223,595.

So crazy costs money. How crazy do you want to be?
126 2013-05-05 WHO CAN SAVE THE ‘TODAY’ SHOW?

Yes, Ann Curry’s whispery concern in some interviews was very annoying, but no more than Matt Lauer’s self-importance, Meredith Vieira’s ignorance, Katie Couric’s hamminess or Al Roker’s buffoonery. It was the atmosphere on the “Today” show that finally sent me, a longtime viewer, to “Good Morning America.” It is painful to watch the hosts do the stupid things that the producers think are cute and that they are obviously uncomfortable doing. As Brian Stelter’s article mentioned, at “G.M.A.,” they at least seem to be having fun. ROBIN PERRY, El Paso, Tex.

From Day 1, a woman’s place on the “Today” show has been to be a giggling, blushing child-woman, eager to be chased around the set. Once women were elevated to co-host status, nothing changed. Women were treated just a step away from J. Fred Muggs, the show’s onetime chimpanzee mascot. This is why Ann Curry did not mesh with Matt Lauer. Curry represented the “mom” on the show, the compassionate heart and soul that any family needs to survive. Run, Ann, run. Your fans are waiting for you. Is anyone at “The View” reading this? LAURA GRAMM LEONE, Dix Hills, N.Y.

If producers had such misgivings about making Curry co-anchor, why were they so concerned about the possibility of losing her to another network? And given that chemistry between the anchors is so important to viewers, could we not see some examples from actual programs where chemistry worked and why and where it didn’t and why? JAMIE MALANOWSKI, the Political Animal blog at washingtonmonthly.com

Having endured my share of cringe- worthy Ann Curry segments on the “NBC Nightly News,” this all comes down to a simple reality: she wasn’t very good at her job. Her phony earnestness, theatrical sympathy and whispering tabloid questions were painful and unprofessional. This makes me appreciate NPR all the more. STEVE HENSEN, Durham, N.C., posted on nytimes.com

The door has been open to female jockeys for more than 40 years. That women haven’t, on the whole, had more success lately than they had early in the feminist era suggests that racing is one of those sports in which an exceptional woman, like Lynn Hill in rock climbing or Judit Polgar in chess, can make it to very near the top, but the bell curve of talent and drive is shifted more in the men’s direction. STEVE SAILER, Los Angeles, posted on nytimes.com

Nice article by Keith O’Brien with a contradictory photograph by Brian Finke that bordered on the offensive. If the discussion at hand is about women being taken as seriously as men, then why put a photo of Rosie Napravnik on a merry-go-round with all the evocative overtones of a little girl enjoying a ride on the horsy? JILL THOMPSON, Queens, posted on nytimes.com
127 2013-05-05 Although I appreciated Joshua Hammer’s thoughtful review of Elizabeth Becker’s “Overbooked” (April 21), especially its attention to important issues of corporate irresponsibility and government collusion, he missed an opportunity to examine the Western tourist tradition of glorifying societies deemed more “natural” and “untouched by civilization” and their relationship to an imagined past. Hammer says that Becker praises Zambia’s parks for being “wide open” with “more than a hint of the Africa that the Europeans fell in love with a century ago.” This kind of understanding of “Africa” positions it as desirable because it is part of the past, not of a changing present and future. This is nothing new to Western “primitive” tourism, which belongs to a longer tradition of searching for “authentic” natives and folk amid “untouched” natural settings.

Perhaps Hammer too has fallen under the spell of Western understandings of authenticity and primitivism. He describes his own trip to Asia in 1980, whose highlight “was a one-week tour of Myanmar, then almost completely cut off from the outside world.” I’m sure he didn’t mean to forget to mention that it was cut off because of a brutal dictatorship — he was just caught up in getting to visit a place untouched by “civilization.”
128 2013-05-06 Dear Diary:&#xa;   &#xa;On the &#x201C;New York Street&#x201D; of the Universal Studios back lot in Universal City, Calif., while filming the finale of ABC&#x2019;s &#x201C;Revenge,&#x201D; the assistant director, Johnny Haddad, called out to his ...
129 2013-05-06 After more than 18 seasons in the major leagues,  Yankees  starter  Andy Pettitte  knows what the ball is supposed to feel like once it leaves his hand. There is a certain subtlety that makes it difficult for him to explain the feeling, but he kno...
130 2013-05-06 Dear Diary:&#xa;   &#xa;One of the reasons I have tried a few new things from time to time stems from an incident that happened when I was 5, more than 50 years ago....
131 2013-05-06 The popular fashion series hits the streets across the world to capture looks that are the hallmarks of a neighborhood’s style.
132 2013-05-06 Willie Manning is scheduled for execution on Tuesday. His lawyers say DNA testing could prove him innocent....
133 2013-05-06 With the micro-architecture of its new technology. Intel hopes to get low-power, high-performance chips into tablets, servers, cars, laptops and other products. The impressive physics is matched by a much more complex marketplace. No word on how I...
134 2013-05-06 Issues like the Marketplace Fairness Act are changing the landscape....
135 2013-05-06 Apple and Samsung Electronics divide between them the profit in the handset business, with Apple making more. But Samsung’s mobile business is growing fast, and a new report says it will surpass Apple in profit next quarter....
136 2013-05-06 A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors....
137 2013-05-06 For the elderly, not only can even supposedly minor procedures have complications, but the cancers grow so slowly that they’re unlikely to cause problems in the patients’ remaining years....
138 2013-05-06 Because Orb wowed Saturday, many of those who raced with him in the Derby will likely pass on the Preakness Stakes. As of now, only five other Derby starters are considering the Preakness....
139 2013-05-06 Whether you are living in Pakistan or abroad, join a discussion of what the most important issues are in the country’s general election this weekend....
140 2013-05-06 Perry Essig joined TBWA/Chiat/Day, New York, part of the TBWA Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group, in a new post, global creative director on the Accenture account; there are two other global creative directors at the agency, Tony Bennett and James Cheung. Mr. Essig had been executive vice president and executive creative director at Publicis New York, now the Publicis Kaplan Thaler division of Publicis Worldwide, part of the Publicis Groupe.

Rob FitzGerald joined Big Fuel, New York, in a new post, managing director and head of network services. He had most recently been executive vice president and head of engagement and media at GlobalHue. Big Fuel is part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of the Publicis Groupe.

Judy Glassman, marketing director at the New York office of Smithsonian Media, part of the Smithsonian Enterprises unit of the Smithsonian Institution, was named to a new post, associate publisher for marketing.

Katie Healey joined the Troy, Mich., office of Organic, part of the Omnicom Group, as senior vice president and general manager for Detroit. She succeeds Joe DiMeglio, who was promoted to chief client officer. Ms. Healey had been senior vice president and group account director at Team Detroit, part of WPP.

Tony Ke joined Tribal Worldwide, New York, part of the DDB Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group, in a new post, group creative director for experience design. He had been vice president and creative director for mobile and experience design at Digitas, part of the Publicis Groupe.

Angela Kyle joined Wolff Olins, New York, part of the Omnicom Group, as head of new business development. She succeeds Gilles Guilbert, who left, the agency said, to pursue other interests. Ms. Kyle had most recently been a senior strategist at Story Worldwide, New York.

David Landis, president and chief executive at Landis Communications, San Francisco, was named president of the Public Relations Global Network, composed of independent public relations agencies. He succeeds Mark Paterson, managing director at Currie Communications, Melbourne, Australia. Also, Uwe Schmidt, president at Industrie-Contact, Hamburg, Germany, was named president-elect.

Morgans Hotel Group, New York, chose Firstborn, New York, as the first agency to handle its digital efforts across all platforms. Spending was not disclosed. Morgans, which operates hotels like the Delano and the Royalton, had previously handled digital duties internally and worked with agencies on a project basis.

Ed O’Donnell, president at the Compound Marketing Group, was hired by This Old House magazine, part of the Time Inc. unit of Time Warner, to seek opportunities on broadcast and cable television for the magazine and the This Old House brand that would be in addition to “This Old House” on PBS.

Steve Sanders joined Match Action, Boulder, Colo., in a new post, vice president for development. He had been senior vice president and group account director at the Martin Agency, Richmond, Va., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

SymphonyIRI Group, Chicago, was renamed IRI, a nod at the research company’s original name, Information Resources Inc.

Via Agency, Portland, Me., hired four employees. They are Whitman Bowers, client strategist; David Grindon, associate creative director; Dan Jordan, copywriter; and Barry Wolford, associate producer.

Amy Vickers joined 360i, New York, part of Dentsu, in a new post, senior vice president for experiences. She had most recently been chief strategy officer for digital marketing platforms at Razorfish, part of the Publicis Groupe.

Volkswagen of America, Herndon, Va., signed an agreement to run a national addressable television advertising campaign with DirecTV, El Segundo, Calif. Financial terms for the deal, which was facilitated by GroupM and MediaCom, units of WPP, were not disclosed. Other marketers that have signed similar agreements with DirecTV include Lexus, State Farm and Warby Parker.

Marc Woollard joined VBP Orange, part of Venables Bell & Partners, San Francisco, in a new post, director for experience design. He had been creative director at Hornell Anderson, Seattle.
141 2013-05-06 The second installment in a brief history of the U.S. Open Cup soccer tournament....
142 2013-05-06 Sunday night’s episode beautifully written episode played to the show’s strengths....
143 2013-05-06 We can’t all devalue against each other....
144 2013-05-06 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
145 2013-05-06 Phone makers and celebrities may not always be a perfect match. Some celebrities who have endorsed brands like BlackBerry and Samsung have been caught using iPhones....
146 2013-05-06 Manufacturers are gravitating toward wireless connections for Apple’s products, which is helping the market for competitors’ mobile devices....
147 2013-05-06 The myth of a technology-talent shortage. Treasury pays down debt. Why you should blog about your business. And will you be able to live without Google Glass?...
148 2013-05-06 Stanislas Wawrinka defeated the top seed David Ferrer, 6-1, 6-4, for the Portugal Open title in Oeiras.

The second-seeded Wawrinka broke Ferrer’s serve three times while not giving up a break point to finish the lopsided match in 1 hour 5 minutes.

¶ Tommy Haas won the BMW Open, beating the defending champion, Philipp Kohlschreiber, 6-3, 7-6 (3), to win the first all-German final in Munich in 48 years. (AP)

¶ Fifth-ranked Li Na lost in the first round of the Madrid Open to the unranked American Madison Keys, 6-3, 6-2. (AP)
149 2013-05-06 When the N.B.A. center Jason Collins announced he was gay last week, I was thrilled. Not only was I extremely happy for him, I thought that maybe, just maybe, his courage and the wave of positive reaction meant that we were on the verge of an era when people accept and celebrate one another’s differences. I think that’s what makes life beautiful: everyone is different and we can all learn from one another.

It takes a lot of courage to come out.

I first came out to my mom in the ninth grade. Even though the story is kind of boring (comparatively), I remember it as if it were yesterday. I was leaning against a wall in our house at the time, not doing anything in particular. For whatever reason, at that moment I let my mom know I was gay. It wasn’t planned. It just popped out. She gave me a hug, smiled and told me she loved me, and I went back upstairs to my room. Simple as that.

I knew then that it didn’t matter what my sexuality was; my mom and family would always love me for who I am. For me, the simplicity behind coming out was both powerful and beautiful. No drama, just acceptance and love.

That’s why I never felt the need to publicly announce I was “out.” People have asked me if I’m at all bothered that my “announcement” after the W.N.B.A. draft last month didn’t receive as much attention as Jason’s. Frankly, it didn’t matter at all to me. I simply answered a question honestly and am just happy to tell my truth and to be in a position to encourage others to do the same. It’s all about living an honest life and being comfortable in your own skin. It strengthens me to know that Jason and I (along with so many other out pioneers and allies) are united in a mission to inspire others who may be struggling. I want everyone to feel at peace and O.K. with being who he or she is.

Just as basketball doesn’t define who I am, neither does being gay.

But that doesn’t mean life was easy growing up. I was bullied in every way imaginable, but the worst was the verbal abuse. (I was always a strong, tough and tall girl, so nobody wanted to mess with me from a physical standpoint.) It hit rock bottom when I was in seventh grade. I was in a new school with people I didn’t know, and the teasing about my height, appearance and sexuality went on nonstop, every day.
150 2013-05-06 Derek Fisher turned a tough situation for the Oklahoma City Thunder into the worst case for the Memphis Grizzlies.

With the host Thunder down by a point in the final minute, Fisher poked the ball away from the Grizzlies’ Mike Conley, springing the three-time N.B.A. scoring champion Kevin Durant into the open court with a chance to put Oklahoma City on top.

Durant pulled up and connected on a jumper with 11.1 seconds left for the last of his 35 points, lifting the Thunder to a 93-91 victory over the Grizzlies on Sunday in Game 1 of the Western Conference semifinals.

“I just wanted to get up the floor as quick as possible and find a shot,” Durant said.

“That was the only shot I could find.”

Thabo Sefolosha kept Memphis from going back ahead, deflecting a pass that Conley was able to corral — but only after diving out of bounds. Reggie Jackson then hit a pair of free throws for a 3-point lead, and the Grizzlies’ Quincy Pondexter could not force overtime after being fouled while attempting a 3-pointer with 1.6 seconds left.

Pondexter, a career 72 percent free-throw shooter, missed the first free throw. He made his second attempt and then intentionally missed, but Durant swatted the rebound away, and Marc Gasol’s last attempt was late.
151 2013-05-06 The police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, groused that the city faced an uphill battle before Judge Scheindlin, whom he accused of favoring the civil rights lawyers. “In my view, the judge is very much in their corner and has been all along throughout her career,” he told The Wall Street Journal last month.

The reason the stop-and-frisk issues continue to land in Judge Scheindlin’s courtroom is that civil rights groups, sometimes at the judge’s suggestion, have designated the subsequent cases as “related” to similar cases harking back to the long-closed 1999 lawsuit. That designation instructs a court clerk to automatically forward the case to a specific judge.

At one point, a top city lawyer tried to convince Judge Scheindlin to relinquish a new stop-and-frisk case against the city. “The Court should return this case to the wheel for random assignment,” the lawyer, Celeste L. Koeleveld, said. The judge did not.

The “related-case rule,” as it is known, calls for some cases to be steered toward the same judge. The language of the court rule leaves it to the discretion of individual judges to accept the case as related or not. It instructs judges to consider whether placing the cases in the same courtroom would result in conserving judicial resources, allow more efficient litigation or serve the convenience of the various parties.

The rule calls for related cases to have a “similarity of facts and legal issues” or to stem from the “same transactions or events.” But cases are not related merely because they involve identical legal issues or litigants.

Asked about the possibility of judge shopping, plaintiffs’ lawyers in these cases note that the court rules require lawyers to alert judges to the possibility of a related case.

“It would make no sense to have different judges handle the three stop-and-frisk cases,” one of the lawyers, Christopher T. Dunn of the New York Civil Liberties Union, said. “They involve a common police tactic, nearly identical legal issues, overlapping evidence and closely related remedies.”

Mr. Dunn added, “These are precisely the types of cases to have before a single judge.”

In a brief interview, Judge Scheindlin, who was nominated to the bench by President Bill Clinton, declined to discuss the related-case rule in the context of the various stop-and-frisk cases. But speaking generally, she observed that “some judges are less inclined to accept a case as related, some judges are more inclined to accept it as related.”

In open court, the matter has rarely been discussed. But it did arise in late 2007. Although the 1999 lawsuit had been settled, the plaintiffs returned to court in that case to accuse the department of a surge in racially motivated street stops under the policing practices of a new mayoral administration.

In court, Judge Scheindlin suggested a route other than trying to reopen the old case.

“If you got proof of inappropriate racial profiling in a good constitutional case, why don’t you bring a lawsuit?” she asked. “You can certainly mark it as related.”

At another point, she said, “For $350, you can bring that lawsuit,” a reference to the filing fee.

About a month later, the lawyers filed Floyd v. City of New York, now at trial in her courtroom.
152 2013-05-06 The parents “are taking this really hard,” said a woman leaving the funeral who declined to give her name. A teenage girl said strangers from around the country had written scathing comments online blaming the parents, deepening the town’s pain and anger.

The shooting came after the recent failure in Washington of gun control legislation inspired by the shootings in Newtown, Conn., which exposed a bitter divide on guns. But Burkesville seemed to want no part of being a symbol in a national debate.

“I think it’s nobody else’s business but our town’s,” said a woman leaving a store, who like many people here declined to be interviewed. A woman who answered the phone at the office of John A. Phelps Jr., the chief executive of Cumberland County, whose seat is Burkesville, said, “No, I’m sorry — no more statements,” and hung up.

After the funeral service, two men advanced across North Main Street toward a single television crew present, from the German network RTL, and punched the cameraman, bloodying his face and knocking him down.

Two other men told a newspaper reporter, “If you had any sense, you’d get out of here. You’re next, buddy.”

The county coroner, Gary White, said Kristian’s gun, a .22-caliber single-shot Crickett rifle designed for children and sold in pink and blue, had been stored in a corner, and his parents did not realize it was loaded.

“Down in Kentucky where we’re from, you know, guns are passed down from generation to generation,” Mr. White told The Associated Press. “You start at a young age with guns for hunting and everything.”

After the shooting, the Crickett’s maker, Keystone Sporting Arms in Milton, Pa., deleted a Web page promoting it, but archived images show the company featured a “kids corner” with dozens of pictures of young children and their Cricketts at shooting ranges and out hunting.

The company, which specializes in children’s firearms, said that in 2008 it made 60,000 Cricketts and another model, the Chipmunk, and that it ranks as the country’s 10th largest manufacturer of long guns.

The shooting here, in a region of farms and timber mills, followed a spate of other gun accidents around the country involving young children.

They included a 4-year-old boy who accidentally killed the wife of a sheriff’s deputy at a cookout near Nashville, and a 6-year-old boy who was fatally shot with a .22-caliber rifle by a 4-year-old playmate in Toms River, N.J.

A spokesman for the Kentucky State Police said last week that it was too soon to determine if charges would be filed in the death of Caroline Sparks. Although some states have strict laws aimed at negligent gun storage, including criminal liability for adults, Kentucky’s laws are looser, according to the Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. The state does not hold adults liable when a child gets hold of a firearm and causes an injury or death.

A few Burkesville residents expressed skepticism of the parents for having a loaded, unlocked gun in the house.

Curtis Spears, 59, a retired mechanic, said he introduced his three sons to hunting and shooting when they were about 8. “But they never touched a gun unless I was with them,” he said. He kept the firearms locked up. His grandson Ryan, who is 5, owns the same Crickett model that Kristian used. But it is equipped with a safety that can be unlocked only with a key kept by his father, Mr. Spears said.

April Anderson, a cashier, said that she, too, owned a gun at age 5. “We went deer hunting,” she said. “I had a .22. You have to teach them at an early age,” she noted, adding that she and her husband own more than 20 guns, but that they keep them secure. “Our guns are put up,” she said.

Her 11-year-old daughter, Taylor, said, “Since that little girl died, Dad got rid of all the guns in the house.”

Not quite, her mother corrected her. They removed at least one shotgun from their home, but not all. “You can’t put your children in a bubble,” Ms. Anderson said.
153 2013-05-06 CAIRO — An armed man fired birdshot pellets at a motorcade escorting the Egyptian prime minister on Sunday, but officials characterized it as an accidental episode of road rage rather than an assassination attempt.

The prime minister, Hisham Qandil, was unharmed during the shooting, which highlighted the lawlessness and growing availability of weapons in Egypt since its uprising more than two years ago. In a statement, the Interior Ministry said that around 11 p.m., a red pickup truck carrying five men who were on their way to fight other, unidentified people happened upon Mr. Qandil’s motorcade.

When the prime minister’s guards tried to keep the pickup truck away from the official procession, one of the men in the truck fired twice on the guards. The assailants, who ranged in age from 18 to 29, tried to flee, striking a police officer and a civilian with the truck before they were arrested. The statement said the shooting had “no political motivation.”
154 2013-05-06 “Risk, risk, risk,” Tom Enders, the chief of Airbus’s parent company, European Aeronautic Defense and Space, said of Boeing’s approach to the Dreamliner.

Mr. Enders said Airbus had made similar mistakes in designing some of the components on its latest planes. “It’s pushing the technology envelope and not always taking enough care that the technologies were mature when we put them on an aircraft,” he said. “And that doesn’t benefit the customer, obviously.”

Aviation analysts said Boeing had to make a technological leap with the Dreamliner over the last decade to again surpass Airbus in total plane sales, just as it now has to upgrade the 777, its long-range workhorse, to counter a new challenge from the A350.

But while Boeing needed to take radical steps, like molding the entire fuselage of the Dreamliner out of the plastic composites to cut fuel costs by 20 percent, it can achieve similar fuel savings on the 777 by using advanced engines and adding huge composite wings to a metal frame.

The prospect of gaining such savings with a more cautious approach delights both the airlines and Boeing’s investors, who would love to see it complete the development process without the kind of white-knuckle ride — or the extra billions in cash — that the Dreamliner required.

W. James McNerney Jr., Boeing’s chief executive, said recently that “we all remember the times of fighting through the 787 development where the technologies weren’t quite as mature as we hoped they’d be.” He said the company’s strategy in updating the larger 777, and creating two additional versions of the 787, was to “harvest some hard-fought gains” in that technology without taking such big risks.

Mr. McNerney said the new version of the 777, which is still subject to final approval by Boeing’s board, would include much more substantial improvements than most planes derived from existing ones and could be ready by the end of the decade. “So I think we may be in an era where we can absorb somewhat less risk and still deliver a lot of performance,” he added.

The company’s plans for the updated 777, known as the 777X, are also significant because it could be the last new model that Boeing builds before the 2030s. And the updating is not risk-free: advances in engine technology can prove difficult, and the composite wings on the new 777 will be wider and more complicated to fabricate than those on the 787.

Boeing’s efforts to seek advance orders for the plane will also set off an intense new phase in its rivalry with Airbus, one determined more by how efficiently each company can produce the planes than their visions.

“Airbus squandered a decade on the A380,” a gigantic jet that has had disappointing sales, said Richard L. Aboulafia, an aviation analyst at the Teal Group in Fairfax, Va. Boeing, he added, lost the advantage with its troubles on the 787. With the A350, which also has a composite body and wings, he said, “what’s important is that Airbus is catching up.”

The first sign of the industry’s shift toward more incremental change came in late 2010, when Airbus decided to put new fuel-saving engines on its smaller A320 jets. Boeing, which had considered building an all-new 737, followed suit in 2011 with plans to add new engines to its planes.

Analysts said that since those planes fly the shorter routes, it would not have been worth the cost to substantially remake them with composite materials. Boeing’s concepts for the more extensive 777 makeover began to leak out last summer, and Mr. Aboulafia and other analysts have criticized the company for taking so long to move forward with it.

But Boeing also faces conflicting pressure from Wall Street to get past the huge expenditures on the Dreamliner and generate more cash, and its stock has rallied in recent weeks at the prospect that it could be putting the battery and other problems behind it.

Given the financial pressure, Mr. Aboulafia said, Boeing’s board had been reluctant to start marketing another new plane. “There was also no way,” said Scott Hamilton, an aviation consultant at the Leeham Company in Issaquah, Wash., “to do an all-new 777 in this decade.”

In its efforts to leverage its investments in the Dreamliner, Boeing is also building a stretched version, called the 787-9, and talking to airlines about an even longer version, the 787-10. Airbus is also building three versions of the A350 to compete directly with the Dreamliners and the 777. The largest A350 would normally seat up to 350 people, while Boeing’s 777X might carry 400 in the main version and 350 in a later configuration that could travel even longer distances.

All these planes, with expected flight ranges from 7,000 to more than 9,000 nautical miles, will have only two engines and should fit into a sweet spot in the market, given the growing demand from Middle Eastern and Asian airlines for long-haul planes. But with 400 seats and one of the longest ranges, Mr. Aboulafia said, the main 777X “could be in a class by itself if Boeing can launch it on time and get it right.”
155 2013-05-06 Mr. Rehmani’s group, Ahle Sunnat Wal Jamaat, is fielding 130 candidates across Pakistan in this election. Few are expected to win seats in the Parliament, which is dominated by more moderate parties. But experts say they are flexing their political muscle at the very time when Pakistan urgently needs to push back against extremism.

Relentless Taliban attacks on secular parties in recent weeks have tilted the field in favor of conservative parties, while the election authorities have been ambiguous. Some candidates were disqualified for having forged their university degrees, or for having an anti-Pakistani “ideology.” But candidates with nakedly sectarian groups have been allowed to participate freely.

“These elections are critical,” said Ayesha Siddiqa, a defense analyst and the author of several reports on militancy in southern Punjab. “General Musharraf and his military started accommodating these groups. Now we see them trying to enter the political mainstream.”

Mr. Rehmani was speaking at a rally in Khanewal, a district of lush fields and poor farmers between the city of Multan and the Indus River. His group, once known as Sipah-e-Sahaba Pakistan, is the country’s main anti-Shiite group and was banned as a terrorist organization by Pervez Musharraf, then the president, in 2002.

Sipah is widely viewed as the ideological center of sectarian thinking in Pakistan; its most notorious offshoot is Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, the militant group responsible for much of the sectarian bloodshed this year: roadside executions, drive-by shootings and two major suicide attacks in the western city of Quetta that killed almost 200 people earlier this year.

But relatively little sectarian violence touches Sipah’s political heartland in southern Punjab, where such groups drive deep roots in conservative rural communities by exploiting religious sentiment, profound social inequality and — in some cases — the support of mainstream politicians eager to capture their votes.

In Khanewal, for instance, Mr. Rehmani is estimated to control 12,000 to 20,000 votes, not enough to win a seat, but sufficient to swing the vote in the event of a tight race. At the last election in 2008, his group supported Raza Hayat Hiraj, a candidate for General Musharraf’s party who went on to win the seat in Parliament. This time, however, the group has fielded its own candidate, Mr. Rehmani.

Mr. Hiraj has been rejected by that group, and finds himself under political attack locally. He has also had a change of heart about Sipah. “They are very strong fanatics,” he said in an interview, saying that the group had a “different mind-set” when he supported them — under pressure from his own party.

“I was told to go into an alliance with them,” he said. “These people don’t even consider Shiites to be like human beings. Their first philosophy is to kill a Shiite.”

A similar dynamic exists in other pockets of Punjab where extremists enjoy a foothold: politicians, even those who profess not to share the extremists’ values, are happy to embrace their votes. All parties, including the Pakistan Muslim League-N, which is tipped to do well in this election, have been guilty.

The phenomenon helps explain how sectarian groups can carve out the space to operate, said Ms. Siddiqa, the analyst. “There is an argument that if you engage these groups politically, they might turn into Pakistan’s version of Sinn Fein or Hezbollah,” she said, referring to the political wings of militant movements in Ireland and Lebanon. “That is a very dangerous proposition.”

Other factors play a part, too. Although sectarianism has been a problem in Pakistan since the country’s birth in 1947, it turned militant in the 1980s when the military dictator, Gen. Muhammad Zia ul-Haq, promoted Sunni extremist groups to counter Iranian influence after the 1979 revolution in that country, which created a Shiite theocracy.

Sectarian recruiters found rich terrain in the fields of Punjab, where poor Sunni farmers felt exploited by wealthy Shiite landowners who lorded over their tenants in a modern-day feudalism. Some of the same factors are still at play today.

“These people are slaves to the feudal lords,” Mr. Rehmani said after the rally, sitting on a rope bed in a field outside the mosque.

Indeed, one of his opponents is a Shiite landlord: Fakhar Imam, a member of a large and politically influential family. Mr. Imam is a former speaker of Parliament while his wife, Abida Hussain, is a former ambassador to the United States. In 1991, his brother was shot and wounded in a sectarian attack.

In an interview after a rally in Kabirwala, the main town of Khanewal District, Mr. Imam played down the importance of sectarianism as a political factor. “People are more concerned with gas, jobs and electricity,” he said, speaking by torchlight after the city power went off.

Still, there is little doubt that sectarian politics are the seedbed of more violent actions. Militants from Kabirwala took part in a high-profile attack on the Sri Lankan cricket team in Lahore in 2009 that killed eight people. And the founder of Sipah-e-Sahaba, Maulana Haq Nawaz Jhangvi, was educated in a madrasa just a few hundred yards from Mr. Imam’s rally.

The head of the madrasa, Maulana Irshad Ahmed, bristled at any suggestion that the institution had a connection with terrorism. Instead he offered juice and samosas to a visiting Shiite journalist, and offered a tour of the complex, which belongs to the conservative Deobandi sect and houses 2,000 students.

In the corridors of a new, three-story building, filled with dormitory rooms that doubled as classrooms, bearded teenagers crowded around teachers, listening to religious instruction. A similar-size mosque was under construction next door; Mr. Ahmed said he hoped the complex would soon have 4,000 students.

After the rally in Khalid Walid village, Mr. Rehmani rose to leave, trailed by his armed guards. He apologized: he was rushing to another campaign rally.

As his convoy disappeared into the dusk, it passed under the village’s dominant feature: the red-brick tomb of Hazrat Khalid Walid, a 13th century saint from the moderate Sufi strain of Islam, who was famed for his sense of tolerance.
156 2013-05-06 ¶Zurich Insurance Group named agencies owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies to handle worldwide marketing. Spending was estimated at $250 million. The assignment had been handled by agencies owned by the Publicis Groupe. An Interpublic team that competed in a review for the assignment was headed by the company’s McCann Worldgroup division; agencies that include McCann Erickson Worldwide, MRM Worldwide and Universal McCann will be responsible for advertising, digital work and media planning and buying.

¶Unilever chose 360i, New York, part of Dentsu, as the digital agency of record for the Ben & Jerry’s brand in the United States, handling duties that will include social media marketing. Spending was not disclosed. The assignment had been handled by Edelman Digital, part of the Edelman unit of Daniel J. Edelman Inc., which continues as the digital agency for the brand elsewhere in the world.

¶Ohio Department of Administrative Services, Columbus, consolidated the creative and media parts of the Ohio Lottery account by awarding Marcus Thomas, Cleveland, which handles the media part, the creative duties for the account, which had been handled by Northlich, Cincinnati. Spending was estimated at $16 million.

¶Joe Marchese returned to SocialVibe, Los Angeles, as chief executive, assuming duties from Greg Martin, who had been acting chief executive since the departure of Todd Tappin in January. Mr. Marchese, who had served as president of SocialVibe from 2006 to 2011 after helping found the company, had most recently been senior vice president for marketing and digital at the Fuse Networks division of the Madison Square Garden Company, New York. With Mr. Marchese’s hiring, Mr. Martin will return to his duties as a board member of SocialVibe.

¶BETC, Paris, part of the Havas Creative division of Havas, said it would open its first office in the United States in 18 months; the agency listed potential locations as Austin, Tex.; Chicago; Miami; Portland, Ore.; and New York. BETC, which also has an office in London, creates campaigns for brands like Diet Coke, Evian, Sephora and Louis Vuitton.

¶Three agencies — AMGW Agency, Miami; Unlike, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; and UniMedios, Mexico City — are forming an alliance. Each will continue to operate separately; their jointly owned partnership will be known as 3a Alliance, or the Americas Agency Alliance.
157 2013-05-06 The administration declined a request to interview Ms. Pritzker. But in 2008, sent her questions hours before she withdrew from consideration. Her written answers then may foreshadow testimony in her confirmation hearing.

For example, The Times asked whether it was ethical to avoid taxes through such arrangements. Ms. Pritzker replied that most of her wealth was held by domestic trusts, but she acknowledged, “I am a beneficiary of some non-U.S. situs trusts which were established about 50 years ago (when I was a child) and are administered by a non-U.S.-based financial institution, as trustee. I do not control how those trust assets are administered.”

The White House expressed confidence that Ms. Pritzker would be confirmed, pointing to support from groups like the . When asked what had changed since 2008, Eric Schultz, a White House spokesman, said that Ms. Pritzker was in a different place.

“At the time,” he said, “she was managing an extensive portfolio of businesses that were under pressure due to the financial crisis. Those businesses had thousands of employees. She also had an ongoing obligation to oversee her family’s restructuring of assets to separate out the interests of various family members.”

Indeed, a Democrat familiar with the Obama transition team said in 2008 that Ms. Pritzker’s family had resisted any nomination because their assets were so entangled. Last week, a White House official involved in vetting her said they had since completed dividing up their finances.

The official said the Commerce Committee disclosure form, which will be made public soon, focuses on assets dating back one to two years. (To avoid conflicts of interest, the official added, Ms. Pritzker agreed to sell off certain holdings if she is confirmed.) But it is not clear whether she can avoid disclosing her tax records and what was in her shared family trusts earlier.

Asked what would happen if Congress sought earlier financial records, the White House official said it would be “not fair” if lawmakers were “to subject her to a process that is different from other cabinet secretaries generally,” adding, “We’re going to evaluate those requests when they come.”

Ms. Pritzker’s role in overseeing Superior Bank, which collapsed amid accounting irregularities in 2001, may also draw scrutiny.

Her family and a partner established the bank in 1988 from the ruins of a failed savings and loan that was acquired — along with the right to more than $600 million in tax credits from its previous losses. Ms. Pritzker became its chairwoman, and later a director of its holding company.

In the 1990s, Superior focused on subprime lending — high-interest loans that are marketed to people with shaky finances. It was a pioneer in bundling them into securities — selling some portions, while retaining riskier ones — a practice that later spread and led to the 2008 financial crisis.

Outside accountants signed off, allowing the owners to take cash out of the bank as dividends. But in 2001, regulators said that Superior was undercapitalized because it had overstated the value of the toxic assets on its balance sheet.

In a sign of the closeness of her own role, Ms. Pritzker wrote a letter assuring employees that its owners would save the bank, adding, “Our commitment to subprime has never been stronger.” But the deal fell through, and the bank was declared insolvent two months later.

“The failure of Superior Bank was directly attributable to the board of directors and executive management ignoring sound risk diversification principles as evidenced by excessive concentrations in residual assets related to subprime lending,” a inspector general report said.

Burt Ely, a banking consultant who testified at a 2001 hearing about Superior’s failure, said that Ms. Pritzker’s stewardship raised embarrassing questions.

“What is going to cause turbulence is not just the failure of Superior, but also the kind of lending that Superior was doing before it failed,” he said, adding that Ms. Pritzker has a reputation as “a very sharp person, financially. She had to have understood what the basic business model was.”

In 2008, Ms. Pritzker wrote that “I sincerely regret the closing of Superior Bank” and noted that her family’s trusts were paying $460 million to help defray the losses “despite the fact we had no legal duty to do so.”

Still, depositors with an excess of the insured limit in their accounts lost $10 million. A lawyer, Clint Krislov, sued on their behalf. But the Pritzkers defeated the lawsuit.

Ms. Pritzker in 2008 defended her family’s refusal to pay uninsured depositors more than the deal reached with regulators, noting the legal principle “that there should be only one representative for a failed institution, the F.D.I.C.,” and stressing their contributions to the receivership.

Mr. Krislov said the Pritzkers won an unusual deal allowing bank shareholders to be paid from recovered assets before depositors, which, along with the tax credits they obtained in 1988, meant “they came out ahead.” He portrayed the episode as showing “that the very wealthy get special deals the rest of us don’t get.”

One open question is how much hay Republicans will be able to make out of such sentiments. Bruce Buchanan, a political science professor at the University of Texas at Austin, noted that Republicans typically defend against populist-tinged attacks on the financial dealings of the wealthy. Indeed, the White House noted that in 2006, Mr. Grassley backed a wealthy Bush administration secretary nominee who used offshore funds.

Still, as Mr. Grassley’s statement showed, hypocrisy charges can go both ways. In other contexts, Mr. Obama has criticized arrangements that allow wealthy people to avoid taxes, portrayed some subprime lending practices as predatory, and denounced as irresponsible and wrong the tactics that led to the financial crisis.

For now, Democrats are wary. Through a spokesman, the Senate majority leader, of , said Ms. Pritzker “has the support in the Senate to be confirmed, and we should do so with haste.” He added that “playing politics” with her nomination would be “mindless, knee-jerk” obstructionism by Republicans.

Still, Ms. Pritzker brings “a lot of baggage” to her confirmation fight, said Mr. Buchanan, the political science professor.

The president “must really feel obligated to her, because it’s not like he doesn’t have enough on his plate as it is of the buzz saw variety,” he said. “On the other hand, she is a talented woman and she’s done some good work, so I’m guessing he thinks he can weather this whether she is confirmed or not.”
158 2013-05-06 A’s hitters racked up seven three-ball counts against Pettitte, who threw 100 pitches, 57 for strikes. He also hit a batter.

In his previous start, last Monday against the Houston Astros, Pettitte threw strikes, but his location was off. He allowed 10 hits and 7 earned runs in four innings. On Sunday, he had trouble finding the strike zone.

“It’s been a long time since I hadn’t had a feel for my pitches,” he said.

Pettitte’s experience makes his current problems surprising — veterans know how to adjust when things are not working — but his long track record also makes Yankees Manager Joe Girardi believe it is too soon to think there is something wrong.

“I’m not going to judge someone by two starts,” Girardi said. “If it goes on for a month, then there will be some concern.”

Pettitte said that he felt fine physically and that his pregame bullpen sessions had gone well. But things have gone awry once he has gotten into the game. When he does not have command of his cutter, hitters can anticipate where a hard pitch will land.

“When I do throw a good one, and then I trust the next one and it’s a bad one, it’s hard to trust it again,” Pettitte said of his cutter.

Girardi said before the game that Pettitte’s start against Houston was such an anomaly that he was all but certain Pettitte would bounce back and find his touch with the cutter.

“I will be completely shocked if it wasn’t there today,” he said. “It would floor me. I’m sure he’s found it. I don’t know where he left it last time.”

The Yankees’ offense saved Pettitte from his third loss. He left trailing by 4-1, but Lyle Overbay’s two-run single with two outs in the sixth inning tied the game at 4-4.

Oakland retook the lead in the eighth when Josh Donaldson homered against reliever Boone Logan. The Yankees had runners on in the eighth and ninth but could not score.

Pettitte said that had he done his job, four runs would have been enough for a victory.

“Obviously, you feel like you’re letting everybody down,” Pettitte said.

Yankees shortstop Eduardo Nunez left Sunday’s game after the fourth inning with tightness in his rib cage. A magnetic resonance imaging test revealed no damage. Nunez said he felt pain in his side after the first inning but thought it was something he ate. It was not until he felt pain after swinging in the third inning that he realized he was injured. Neither he nor Joe Girardi believes he will miss significant time. ... Reliever David Robertson, who missed the series against the A’s because of an injured hamstring, said he would throw off flat ground Tuesday in Colorado. If he feels no pain, he will probably be available to pitch. ... Girardi said outfielder Curtis Granderson would not necessarily play center field when he returned from the disabled list. Girardi said Granderson had been playing all three outfield positions in Tampa, Fla., during his rehabilitation of a broken forearm.
159 2013-05-06 The Bluetooth standard for wireless connections has allowed accessory makers to build products that can work with many kinds of devices because they no longer have to worry about a physical hook. Other phone makers like Samsung and tablet-computing device makers like Amazon have become strong alternatives in the eyes of gadget shoppers.

And Apple itself provided an opening for competitors when it changed the way its phones connect to other devices, aggravating both its business partners and consumers.

Now accessory makers are eager, even obliged, to think beyond Apple.

“We’ve had to adapt to new technology, support more devices and meet the growing demands of consumers looking for accessories that can accommodate multiple devices,” said Ezra S. Ashkenazi, chief executive of iHome, one of the biggest makers of iPhone clock radios and other Apple audio accessories. This year, iHome is releasing more products with Bluetooth than ever before, he said.

Apple says it is fine with the wireless direction in which accessories are headed. “Apple provides users with the best wired and wireless connectivity options to work with the broadest range of accessories,” said Tom Neumayr, a spokesman for Apple. “As a result, iOS users have access to the world’s largest ecosystem of options and the most seamless integration with our products.”

Apple expected some grumbling from customers and partners last fall when it introduced in the iPhone 5 a new way for the mobile phone to connect to other devices. But its executives defended the connector, Lightning, because the new, smaller design allowed for slimmer phones and tablets.

While the 30-pin connector can be plugged into an old iPhone in only one way, a Lightning cable works even if it is flipped over.

Apple did not tell accessory makers about the change ahead of time, which is normal for a company known for its secrecy, but it was painful for many of its partners.

“You really don’t know where Apple is going to go next, if they’re going to change to something else down the road,” said Kyle Thompson, director of marketing for Cambridge SoundWorks. “They’ve made a lot of companies like us really nervous.”

That change frustrated partners whose customers had invested in products that used Apple’s old 30-pin connector. Those older devices are incompatible with the latest Apple products without an adapter that Apple sells for $29 to connect to the latest Apple products. Also, the new Lightning connectors are more expensive to license and manufacture than the old ones, electronics makers say.

“A lot of us were bitten pretty badly by the connector transition,” said Ian Geise, senior vice president for marketing and product development at Voxx Accessories Corporation, which makes audio products under RCA, Acoustic Research and other brand names.

Voxx has stopped making audio products with proprietary Apple connectors in them, though it is making a multiroom speaker system that uses AirPlay, Apple’s own technology for wirelessly connecting devices, Mr. Geise said.

Logitech, which used to offer an array of speaker docks with the old 30-pin link, has also stopped using Apple connectors and, like many accessory makers, is creating speaker systems that connect to mobile devices over Bluetooth, the short-range wireless technology that is in practically every new mobile phone, tablet and car stereo.

The prevalence of the old Apple connector in accessories was partly a reflection of Apple’s dominance in the MP3 player market with the iPod, a business that is fading as smartphones become more important sources of music.

“Even before Apple shifted from the 30-pin connector to Lightning, the market had started shifting,” said Rory Dooley, senior vice president for music at Logitech. “Lightning came in and accelerated some of the change. People wanted to get away from these proprietary connectors.”

Accessory makers say customers are demanding wireless speaker systems in large part because they want to be able to hold their mobile devices in their hands so they can skip around radio stations and playlists, rather than having to walk over to an iPhone docked in one location.

Geneva Lab, a maker of eye-catching speakers that cost $250 to more than $2,000, is dropping physical Apple connectors in most of its product line mainly for that reason, said Chuck Vath, managing director for the company’s United States division.

Apple earns money from accessory makers who must pay royalties, an amount Apple does not disclose, to license Apple’s proprietary connectors for their products through a program Apple calls MFi (as in, Made for iPhone).

Still, it is not clear how much Apple will suffer from accessory makers shunning its connector. Apple’s entire family of iOS devices support Bluetooth, too, so they are just as compatible with wireless speaker systems.

There is no question consumers are moving toward wireless connections. Last year, American sales of digital speakers with physical docks fell 16 percent to $505 million, while wireless streaming speakers, most of which used Bluetooth, jumped 175 percent to $383 million, according to NPD Group, a research firm that tracks retail sales.

Fewer people who buy sound systems that work only with Apple devices, in theory, could mean fewer obstacles for those interested in switching to competing phones and tablets in the future. And those competitors are gaining ground.

In recent years, Samsung, for example, has gone from a bit player in the mobile phone business to the top dog. Its share of global smartphone shipments in the first quarter grew to 32.7 percent from 28.8 percent a year earlier, while Apple’s fell to 17.3 percent from 23 percent, according to IDC, a market and technology research firm.

Apple, sensing that wireless would replace the physical cables tethering its devices to others, introduced AirPlay several years ago. The technology, which works over Wi-Fi home networks, appears to have gotten the most traction among people who use it to stream music and video into living rooms through Apple TV, a device made by the company that connects to home theater systems.

AirPlay is more common in high-end audio systems, partly because adding the technology contributes significant costs to a product — at least $30 per speaker system or receiver sold, according to one manufacturer.

Among the broader electronics industry though, AirPlay has not taken off. “There’s very little support for AirPlay right now,” said Stephen Baker, an analyst at NPD. “It’s expensive. Bluetooth is very cost-effective.”

Mr. Neumayr noted that AirPlay is built into audio products from Denon, Marantz and others and that it “delivers incredible fidelity and provides music fans with great features such as the ability to stream your tunes to more than one room simultaneously.”

The bumpy transition to Lightning has also made electronics manufacturers more nervous about supporting Apple-controlled technologies.

“This was a harsh reminder that 30-pin was not a standard,” said Matthew Paprocki, the co-founder and creative director of Soundfreaq, a maker of speaker systems that is planning to support the new connector in future products. “It was an Apple monopoly.”
160 2013-05-06 The recent bailout of Cyprus at a cost of €10 billion, or $13 billion, which included stringent conditions forcing losses on bank depositors, has focused minds in Ljubljana, the Slovenian capital. Slovenia’s struggling banking sector is saddled with about €6.8 billion worth of nonperforming loans, about one-fifth of the national economy. Slovenia is now in recession, and the gloom across the euro zone shows little sign of abating. A European Commission forecast released Friday said that France, Spain, Italy and the Netherlands — four of the five largest euro zone economies — will be in recession through 2013.

Last Thursday, Slovenia bought time by borrowing $3.5 billion on international markets. That was two days after Moody’s Investors Service cut the country’s credit rating to junk status, citing the banking turmoil and a deteriorating national balance sheet. Analysts said the bond sale would probably enable the government of the new prime minister, Alenka Bratusek, to stay afloat at least through the end of the year.

The Cypriot debacle has shown how bailing out even a small country can damage the credibility of the euro currency union. But Slovenia, with two million people, insists that it is not Cyprus and will not seek emergency aid.

“For the time being, I have a sound sleep,” Ms. Bratusek, the 42-year-old prime minister, said in a recent interview.

This week, on Thursday, Ms. Bratusek, only a little more than a month in office, is expected to present a financial turnaround plan to the European Commission, the executive arm of the European Union. She said that privatizing Slovenia’s largely state-owned banking sector was a priority, along with creating a “bad bank” to take over nonperforming loans.

Her government, she said, will also unveil plans by July to sell the country’s second-largest bank, Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor, along with two large state companies that she declined to specify. The sales could raise up to €2 billion, she said.

Ms. Bratusek, who once headed the state budget office at the Finance Ministry, said Slovenia’s government debt, which analysts say rose from about 54 percent of gross domestic product to around 64 percent with last week’s bond sale, still ranked at the lower end of that scale in the euro area.

But the 6 percent interest rate Slovenia offered on the 10-year bonds in last week’s debt sale, at a time when some euro zone countries are enjoying historically low borrowing costs — Germany’s equivalent bond is trading below 1.2 percent — might only add to the country’s financial problems.

Mujtaba Rahman, director of Europe at Eurasia Group, a political risk consulting firm, said the new financing could backfire if it lulled the government into laxity about making vital structural changes.

“The new financing was not a vote of confidence in the Slovenian government or in the economy, but rather reflects investors attracted by high bond yields,” Mr. Rahman said. “A bailout could still prove inevitable.”

What went wrong in Slovenia? The country, wedged between Italy, Austria, Hungary and Croatia, was considered the most promising among the 10 new European Union entrants when it joined in 2004. That was 13 years after it declared independence from Yugoslavia, avoiding a bloody Balkan war that had swept up other countries in the region.

When Slovenia was admitted to the euro club in 2007, the single currency helped fuel easy credit and a construction boom. It was the same sort of heady access to cheap money that led to economic disasters in Ireland and Spain. But economists say the Slovenian variety of euro-euphoria hangover can be traced to a failed transition from communism to a fully functional market economy.

After gaining independence in 1991, Slovenia — conditioned by centuries of foreign subjugation — was determined to retain local control of its prized assets. It embarked on a spree of management buyouts of partially state-owned companies, overseen by executives who in many cases were uncomfortably close to people running the government and the state banks.

“After the transition in Slovenia, the state retained a stranglehold over the economy,” Mr. Rahman said, “and the country today is suffering the consequences.”

Bine Kordez at Merkur was not the only head of big Slovenian company whose involvement in a bank-aided management buyout ended badly, or whose access to easy credit backfired. Two of Slovenia’s biggest construction companies, Vegrad and SCT, are now in bankruptcy proceedings. Istrabenz Holding, a sprawling food, tourism and energy conglomerate that once owned a vast swath of Slovenia’s economy, is undergoing a court-mandated debt restructuring.

Igor Bavcar, Istrabenz’s former chief executive, was charged with money laundering, and Bosko Srot, former chief of the big brewing company Pivovarna Lasko, with abuse of authority, in connection with a 2007 deal. Prosecutors say Mr. Bavcar attempted to buy a stake in Istrabenz from Lasko through a series of shady intermediaries. Both deny any wrongdoing.

A big provider of buyout loans was Slovenia’s largest state-owned financial institution, Nova Ljubljanska Banka, or N.L.B. The government installed new management late last year, as the bank’s lending portfolio turned increasingly sour.

Janko Medja, N.L.B.’s new chief executive, said that the rush to privatize Slovenian state-controlled companies, combined with the money coursing through Europe before the 2008 financial collapse, had prompted banks like N.L.B. to practically give money away “for free.”

In the case of Merkur, which Mr. Kordez joined as finance director in 1988, the advent of the euro sent the home-improvement company’s profit soaring, as newly prosperous Slovenians rushed to renovate their apartments and houses. By 2008, the once modest group of neighborhood hardware stores had €1.3 billion in annual revenue, and the number of employees had more than doubled to 5,000.

Mr. Kordez decided to consolidate his grip. He recounted recently how he convinced a group of 10 banks, including 4 foreign ones and N.L.B., to lend him more than €350 million.

“I had no real collateral for a deal of that size,” he said. “Just my house , a few hundred thousand euros, a smart business plan and my reputation.”

So he offered as collateral the assets of Merkur, a company he did not yet own.

The trouble intensified in 2009 when, with the global economic downdraft in full force, Slovenia’s construction bubble burst. As home improvement projects fell idle, Merkur sales dropped by about 20 percent.

Mr. Kordez described taking out fresh loans to repay the outstanding ones, even as Merkur paid dividends to Mr. Kordez’s investment vehicle, Merfin, which he then used to help pay off spiraling debts.

“In some countries this could be called a Ponzi scheme,” said Primoz Cirman, a leading economic writer for Dnevnik, a Slovenian newspaper. “But here it was called financial engineering.”

By 2010, the banks had lost patience and Mr. Kordez was pushed out. An audit later revealed that the buyout had destroyed €200 million of Merkur’s value. The company is now majority owned by the banks and undergoing a court-mandated debt restructuring.

In 2011, prosecutors accused Mr. Kordez of embezzling €9 million from Merkur in 2008 through a byzantine deal in which his investment firm, Merfin, bought a shopping center with an improper €10 million loan from Merkur. A few days later, Merfin sold the property to a construction company for €21 million, an artificially high price.

Merfin, prosecutors said, then used the profits to help pay back its soaring loan costs.

Last September Mr. Kordez was found guilty of forgery and abuse of office. He said he was trying to save the company and had not broken any laws. Prosecutors counter that he abused his position to save himself from financial ruin.

As he awaits a ruling on his appeal, Mr. Kordez has been riding his mountain bike throughout the country, and he says he refuses even to contemplate a possible prison term that he compares to a diagnosis of cancer. He would leave behind his wife, and an adult daughter and son.

The country’s financial disease, he said, is hardly his fault.

“Someone needed to be blamed for this mess,” he said, “And I have become the sacrificial lamb.”
161 2013-05-07 Air pollution has been linked to cardiovascular disease, and now researchers may be closer to understanding why: it increases atherosclerosis, or hardening of the arteries, a known risk for heart attack and stroke.&#xa;   &#xa;Researchers did ultr...
162 2013-05-07 American children born outside the United States may have a significant advantage over the native-born: They are less likely to have allergies.&#xa;   &#xa;Researchers studied 79,667 children taking part in a national health survey....
163 2013-05-07 Roughly 15 percent of public high school graduates are black. But despite the widespread use of affirmative action at elite colleges, only one college with a graduation rate of more than 70 percent has that many black students in its freshman class.

Many more black students attend colleges with low graduation rates, shown in red. While young blacks are almost as likely as young whites to go to college, they are half as likely to have a degree.

Hispanics are more likely than any other group to attend community colleges, which tend to have more dropouts. They are underrepresented at most elite colleges.

Asians represent only 5 percent of public high school graduates, but they make up a greater proportion of the freshman class at nearly every college with a graduation rate of more than 80 percent.

Whites are overrepresented at most colleges with graduation rates of more than half.
164 2013-05-07 The popularity of Dots, a week-old free iPhone game from Betaworks, shows the appeal of simple design....
165 2013-05-07 O’Melveny announced Tuesday that it hired John Rapisardi and George Davis, the co-chairs of the bankruptcy practice of the law firm Cadwalader Wickersham & Taft, as well as Peter Friedman, a Cadwalader partner based in Washington....
166 2013-05-07 David Einhorn said Tuesday that his firm had raised the size of its Apple holdings. The move came after Apple agreed to quintuple the size of its stock buyback program and increase its dividend....
167 2013-05-07 N.B.A. players mimic each others’ celebrations and wander over the line between respect and disrespect....
168 2013-05-07 Two months after 14-year-old Gina DeJesus vanished in 2004, the son of the suspect in her kidnapping interviewed her mother while a college journalism student for a local community newspaper....
169 2013-05-07 High school students in Japan discuss journalism and the environment with a blogger in New York....
170 2013-05-07 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
171 2013-05-07 The company announced on Tuesday that it would offer half of the 31-story tower for sale or lease....
172 2013-05-07 The London theater scene is taking on a decidedly American tone: Playwrights from Tennessee Williams and Eugene O’Neill to David Mamet, Stephen Sondheim and Annie Baker are among the names on marquees these days....
173 2013-05-07 For the first time, Microsoft has confirmed that it is making changes to the company’s flagship operating system to address some of the problems people have when using the software....
174 2013-05-07 China’s biggest search engine company said acquiring the Internet video business of PPStream would provide more television shows and movies for users and expand its offerings for advertisers....
175 2013-05-07 A Cleveland neighborhood reacted with stunned elation as three woman who had been missing for years were found alive....
176 2013-05-07 The Rangers had a daunting task. Ahead by a goal in the closing two minutes but down two games to none against the Washington Capitals, they were skating shorthanded by two men.

With the perennial Ranger killers Mike Green and Alex Ovechkin poised to net the tying goal, defenseman Ryan McDonagh and his partner Dan Girardi had to gyrate and contort themselves to prevent the Capitals from knotting the score and sending the game into overtime.

As the Madison Square Garden crowd held its breath, McDonagh fulfilled the mission — helping to prevent Washington’s precision power play unit from even registering a shot on Henrik Lundqvist, who made 28 saves in the game’s other 58 minutes, as the Rangers held on for the much-needed 4-3 victory.

“It certainly didn’t feel like they didn’t have a shot on goal during that power play,” a relieved McDonagh said. “They are so dangerous every moment they are on the ice. We had to focus on keeping it tight and not giving them those one-timers.”

The Rangers, who lost Game 2, 1-0, on Green’s overtime goal Saturday, trail the opening-round series by two games to one.
177 2013-05-07 Major League Soccer’s players union released salary figures for the league’s players on Monday, when one player shared a little of his with fans....
178 2013-05-07 Three women who disappeared separately about a decade ago, when they were in their teens or early 20s, were found alive in a residential area near downtown Cleveland, and three men were arrested....
179 2013-05-07 During the recession and its aftermath, public schools took a hit as both state coffers and local property taxes shriveled. That showed up in shrinking employment, but also in teacher salaries.

According to a report released Tuesday, the vast majority of teachers in the nation’s largest school districts took a pay cut or saw their pay frozen at least one year between 2008 and 2012.

The report by the National Council on Teacher Quality, a nonprofit group that advocates for tougher teacher standards, looked at salary data across 41 of the country’s 50 largest school districts. Average annual teacher pay increases, which included cost-of-living and contractually negotiated raises as well as increases awarded for extra years of experience, dropped from 3.6 percent in the 2008-09 school year to 1.3 percent in the 2011-12 year. (The report did not include increases that teachers may have received for extra degrees or certifications.)

Despite the downturn, some districts managed to give teachers larger pay increases. Chicago public schoolteachers, who went on strike last year, enjoyed the largest salary increases across the four-year period covered by the report, with an average 6.5 percent increase. Other districts that increased pay at higher-than-average rates during the recession and recovery period included Milwaukee, New York, Baltimore, Jefferson County in Kentucky and Fresno, Calif.

In Chicago, teachers received contractually negotiated raises of 4 percent in 2009, 2010 and 2011 as well as increases for extra years of experience. The school board voted to rescind the contractual raises in June 2011, one of several issues that triggered the strike.
180 2013-05-07 Bill de Blasio bragged that his two children were vegetarians.

William C. Thompson Jr. noted that he had a rescued cat.

Sal F. Albanese said his mother-in-law’s life was lengthened by the companionship of a Chihuahua named Joey.

The mayoral candidates participating in a forum on Monday on animal rights all did their best, in various ways, to prove themselves animal lovers. But when it came to over-the-top stories of devotion, none of them outdid John A. Catsimatidis, the businessman and Republican candidate, who described how he once called the Fire Department to rescue his daughter’s escaped cockatiel, and how his wife tried to save the life of the family’s elderly cat by giving it mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. (The cat did not survive.)

Animal rights have emerged recently as an unexpected tinderbox in the mayoral race, primarily around the issue of New York’s horse carriages. Efforts to ban the industry, which some consider inhumane, have been opposed by Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker and Democratic mayoral candidate, making her a bête noire of animal rights activists. Recently, Steve Nislick, a parking garage magnate and the founder of a group that is dedicated to banning the carriages, helped pay for a series of ads attacking Ms. Quinn.

So it was little surprise that when Mr. Nislick’s group, Nyclass, announced that it was hosting a forum on animal rights, Ms. Quinn did not attend. Even so, her name was invoked frequently. Before the forum began, the executive director of the group, Allie Feldman, asked audience members to take out their cellphones and call her office to protest her stance on the carriage industry.
181 2013-05-07 Since Viagra arrived on the market in 1998, Pfizer has sought to minimize the stigma around male impotence — rebranded as erectile dysfunction, or E.D. — by enlisting celebrity endorsers like the former Republican presidential candidate Bob Dole and encouraging men to have the “Viagra talk” with their doctors.

But even as men flooded doctors’ offices for prescriptions for what is commonly known as “the little blue pill,” others turned to a vigorous black market, whose growth mirrored an explosion in online commerce. “Viagra is one of the classics,” said Mr. Bate. “Diet pills for women and erectile dysfunction medicines for men are the most sought-after medicines online.”

Matthew J. Bassiur, vice president of Pfizer Global Security, said in a statement that the company had seen counterfeit medicines manufactured “in filthy and deplorable conditions, yet some people do not realize the risks that this poses to their health and safety, our top priority.” He added that samples of counterfeit Viagra tested by Pfizer labs had contained “pesticides, wallboard, commercial paint and printer ink.”

“These findings,” Mr. Bassiur said, “motivate us to continue our aggressive global efforts to stop those who prey on unsuspecting patients.”

Pfizer said it conducted a survey in 2011 in which it evaluated 22 Web sites appearing in the top search results for the phrase “buy Viagra.” Chemical analyses found that about 80 percent of the pills were counterfeit. The fake Viagra pills contained only about 30 to 50 percent of the active ingredient, sildenafil citrate, compared with the actual product.

Not all medicines purchased online are fake, however — many pharmacies, based both in the United States and abroad, require a doctor’s prescription and sell valid versions of drugs. Importing drugs from other countries is technically illegal, although the federal government generally does not prosecute individuals who purchase medicines in small amounts for their own use. The problem, Mr. Bate said, is that it is difficult for consumers to distinguish the legitimate pharmacies from the illicit ones. “For the very nervous purchaser online,” he said, Pfizer is “a name brand you know really well, and the chance of your buying a counterfeit is close to zero.” He noted, however, that some cash-paying customers may balk at the purchase price. The average list price for Viagra is about $22 a pill, while many online pharmacies sell it for about $10.

Some industry analysts saw Pfizer’s move as part of a continuing effort to market drugs directly to consumers, bypassing insurance companies that can be reluctant to pay for so-called lifestyle drugs or that force consumers to pay hefty co-payments. The company said about 90 percent of privately insured patients in the United States receive coverage for Viagra, and co-payments can range from $29 to $49.

Customers who buy Viagra through the Pfizer Web site get three free pills in their first prescription — which typically consists of six pills — and 30 percent off their second prescription.

Mr. Clavelli, the Pfizer marketing executive, said the current Viagra discount was not unique to customers who buy through the online service and had been offered to patients online and at doctors’ offices for months.

Another drug maker, AstraZeneca, has a similar arrangement with an outside pharmacy to sell the breast-cancer treatment Arimidex to patients.

Viagra has about 49 percent of the market for sexual dysfunction treatments, followed by Cialis, which holds 39.7 percent, and Levitra, with 8.6 percent, according to IMS Health.
182 2013-05-07 “We lack uniform agreement on assessing many things in North Korea,” the director, James R. Clapper Jr., recently told Congress in a blunt assessment of the disagreements within the intelligence world. “Its actual nuclear capabilities are no exception.”

The depth of the inability to figure out what is happening was reflected on Thursday in an unclassified Pentagon report to Congress on North Korea’s military capabilities, which read much like it had been written in the late 1980s. It also cast, by implication, significant doubt that returning to negotiations would do much good: “In North Korea’s view,” it concluded, “the destruction of regimes such as Ceausescu, Hussein and Qaddafi was not an inevitable consequence of repressive government, but rather of a failure to secure the necessary capabilities to defend their respective autocratic regime’s survival.”

But the more immediate concern is that Kim Jong-un could follow North Korea’s recent playbook and create another provocation — akin to the sinking of a South Korean navy ship in 2010 or the recent cyberattack on South Korean banks and news media companies. It took weeks of investigation before South Korea could blame the North for those past provocations.

More broadly, the lapses also raise a question of why, 63 years after the outbreak of the Korean War — itself a move the United States did not see coming — gathering information about the North has, in the words of one frequent intelligence consumer, “made Syria and Iran look like an open book.”

At the same time, Mr. Kim has stepped up efforts to collect information about South Korea, as evidenced by the recent arrest in Seoul of a North Korean homemaker who posed as a defector to the South.

“It’s an open question, who has penetrated whom more effectively,” said Gary Samore, Mr. Obama’s former director for weapons of mass destruction.

North Korea has always been the hardest target, but the difficulties of figuring out what is happening now range from longstanding to brand new. The North has long been among the most brutal police states in the world, “very good at scouting human spies,” says one American intelligence official, “and finishing them off fast.” Thus, South Korean intelligence services have a hard time inserting agents. It is all but impossible for an outsider to travel unnoticed to the North, a land of many checkpoints, few cars and a lot of neighborhood informers.

Moreover, the technique that has been so useful in the case of Iran — recruiting scientists and others at international conferences — has been virtually impossible in the case of the North, whose officials rarely travel. When they do venture abroad, there are political officers and other minders who monitor what they do and say. Even the biggest potential bonanza — the arrival of cellphone networks — has been of limited use to intelligence gatherers.

And the technique used so effectively on Iran through 2010 — cyberespionage, and ultimately an attack on the centrifuges that run its nuclear enrichment center at Natanz — does not appear to have been as useful in North Korea. Computer use there is so limited — as is Internet access — that America’s technological advantage has yielded fewer results, according to officials familiar with the efforts. The North, meanwhile, has become more skilled at launching cyberattacks — some through China — at South Korean banks and television networks, including a devastating series of intrusions in March.

But the heart of the intelligence weakness centers on Mr. Kim, who is thought to be in his late 20s. The Chinese, who regularly invited his father, Kim Jong-il, to Beijing for consultations, praise and occasional dressing-downs, contend they have had few meetings with him. The only American to have dealt with him, quite famously, is Dennis Rodman, the former basketball star, whom the F.B.I. was reported to have debriefed after he returned from a recent trip to North Korea.

“There was a time that he was trying to open up the nation with Western-style reforms,” Japan’s defense minister, Itsunori Onodera, said of Mr. Kim in an interview last week during a visit to Washington. “We were impressed that he admires Disneyland and loves American basketball. But then he realized he could not control the country, and he moved back to the military-first policy.” Mr. Onodera said he was worried that “his father and his grandfather knew when to shift to ‘peace mode’ and shake hands; it seems that Kim Jong-un doesn’t know when to put his fist down.”

In fact, in South Korea there is a theory that behind his baby-faced look and easy smile is a Machiavellian who already has top generals and party secretaries cowering at home, and is gambling that he can force Washington to accept the North as a nuclear power.

South Korean officials were surprised to conclude in recent months that despite Mr. Kim’s youth and inexperience, his government and party are exerting control over the military, which many regarded as too influential and too corrupt for that to occur. By some counts, two-thirds of the North’s senior generals have been demoted, replaced or shunted to less-powerful jobs; a few have been banished by the young leader. All have had to sign loyalty letters.

Yet the view that Mr. Kim has become as powerful as his father is not universal. “Who is in charge in North Korea? It’s hard to say,” said a senior South Korean policy maker. “How strong is Kim Jong-un? We don’t know exactly. Who is giving orders in Pyongyang? Apparently, it’s Kim Jong-un, but we are not sure about the inner-circle decision-making process.”

It is a measure of the varying interpretations inside the United States government that, testifying before the Senate Armed Services Committee, Adm. Samuel J. Locklear III, the head of the Pacific Command, called Mr. Kim “ impetuous” and “more unpredictable” than his father. But speaking to the same committee, Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn, the Defense Intelligence Agency’s director, called Mr. Kim a leader “firmly in control” who “possesses a charisma that his father did not,” and who understands realpolitik, including that he could not survive full-scale war.

Mr. Kim’s government has also played a complex game with American intelligence agencies. He knew the West would be intensely interested in whether he tested another plutonium weapon or his first uranium weapon, the product of a new uranium-enrichment capacity that the North has only just unveiled.

But the test site was sealed to make it harder to gather atmospheric evidence. “It’s inevitable that sooner or later they will want us to know they can make a uranium weapon,” said Mr. Samore, the former Obama adviser. “But no one knows quite why he is waiting.” One possible explanation for the secrecy is that the technology is not working as advertised: a combination of rookie errors and sabotage have long slowed Iran’s efforts with the same technology.
183 2013-05-07 The city attorney of San Francisco sued Monster Beverage Corporation, the nation’s biggest maker of highly caffeinated energy drinks, claiming Monday that it was marketing its products to children who might suffer ill effects from them.

In a statement, Dennis J. Herrera, the city attorney, said he had acted because Monster Beverage, unlike some competitors, specifically marketed its products to children and younger teenagers.

“Monster Energy is unique among energy drink makers for the extent to which it targets children and youth in its marketing, despite the known risks its products pose to young people’s health and safety,” Mr. Herrera said on Monday.

The lawsuit, filed in San Francisco Superior Court, aims to restrict the way the company markets its drinks, and seeks civil penalties.

It follows a recent lawsuit against Mr. Herrera by Monster Beverage that seeks to block an inquiry into the company by his office, arguing that he lacks authority to regulate it.
184 2013-05-07 FIFA provisionally barred the departing executive committee member Chuck Blazer of the United States from all soccer-related activities for 90 days after he was accused of embezzling at least $21 million.

¶ Bayern Munich’s supervisory board backed Uli Hoeness to remain the club president despite a tax evasion investigation against him. Bayern said in a statement that Hoeness apologized for having an undeclared Swiss bank account.
185 2013-05-07 Maria Sharapova rallied from a break down in the first set to defeat Alexandra Dulgheru, 7-5, 6-2, and reach the second round of the Madrid Open. Laura Robson of Britain pulled off the first upset, beating fourth-seeded Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland, 6-3, 6-1. The top-seeded men, including Novak Djokovic, Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer, have a bye into the second round.
186 2013-05-07 His discoveries helped unravel the biology of Tay-Sachs disease and more than two dozen other genetic diseases in which a shortage of lysosomal enzymes causes waste to accumulate in cells and eventually destroy them. In Tay-Sachs, a buildup of fatty substances in the brain and other tissues leads to blindness, paralysis, mental retardation and death.

“We are sick because our cells are sick,” Dr. de Duve said.

After learning he had been awarded a Nobel, Dr. de Duve said that although his discoveries had brought great intellectual satisfaction, his goal was to use them to conquer disease. “It’s now time to give mankind some practical benefit,” he said.

Dr. de Duve shared the 1974 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Dr. Albert Claude, who first used centrifugal techniques to glance inside cells, and Dr. George E. Palade, who pioneered using the electron microscope to better understand cell structures. Dr. Claude died in 1983; Dr. Palade died in 2008.

Before the scientists embarked on their research, the cell was perceived as a work basket containing indeterminate parts. The scientists, working separately, transformed that view with discoveries of important cell components.

Dr. Claude discovered mitochondria, which store energy, and Dr. Palade discovered ribosomes, the protein factories within cells. The Karolinska Institute, in awarding the Nobel, credited the three scientists as having founded the field of modern cell biology.

Christian René de Duve was born on Oct. 2, 1917, in Thames Ditton, England, near London. His parents were Belgians who had fled to England during World War I. When the war ended, his family returned to Belgium and settled in Antwerp. Dr. de Duve received his medical degree from the Catholic University of Louvain in 1941.

During World War II he was a medic in the Belgian Army. After German forces captured his unit in France, he managed to escape and made his way back to Belgium.

Dr. de Duve soon resumed his medical training at the Catholic University of Louvain’s Cancer Institute while pursuing graduate studies in chemistry. He wrote a book on insulin, the subject of his thesis. He received his doctorate in chemistry in 1945.

Intent on a career in research, he set off for labs in Sweden and the United States to study biochemistry. Over the next two years, he studied under Hugo Theorell at the Medical Nobel Institute in Stockholm and Carl Cori and Gerty Cori at Washington University in St. Louis, all of whom would later receive Nobel Prizes. Dr. de Duve returned to the Catholic University of Louvain in 1947 to teach physiological chemistry. He became a full professor in 1951.

His research continued to focus on insulin, a hormone involved in the regulation of blood sugar. Working with liver cells, he used Dr. Claude’s recently developed centrifugal techniques to separate cell parts. Centrifuges are spinning devices that speed up the rate at which particles settle in liquid. Dr. Claude’s technique called for using a pestle to break open cells before placing them in the centrifuge.

In one experiment, Dr. de Duve noticed that acid phosphatase, an enzyme he had included as a control, was less active than in earlier experiments in which he had used an electric blender instead of a pestle to break up cells. He was intrigued and pursued his chance finding.

“My curiosity got the better of me,” he wrote in his Nobel autobiography, “and as a result, I never elucidated the mechanism of action of insulin.”

In further experiments, Dr. de Duve found that the enzyme was contained in some sort of membrane; cells broken up in the blender released more of the enzyme because the membrane suffered greater damage. Because the enzyme was so acidic, he concluded that its only purpose could be digestion. He called the membrane lysosome, and later identified it in pictures taken with an electron microscope.

After the discovery, other researchers went on to identify more than 50 lysosomal enzymes and some genetic diseases that result when an enzyme either is absent or does not function properly. Today, some of these conditions, like Pompe disease, which causes sugar to accumulate in the liver and other organs, are treated with drugs that supply the needed enzyme. Other illnesses, like Tay-Sachs disease, have no effective treatments.

Dr. de Duve became a professor at the Rockefeller University in 1962 and began splitting his time between his laboratories there and at Louvain. In 1974, he founded the International Institute of Cellular and Molecular Pathology in Brussels.

He became emeritus professor at the Catholic University of Louvain in 1985 and at Rockefeller in 1988. He retired as president of the pathology institute in 1991.

In his later years he applied his knowledge of biochemistry to the study of the origins of life. He wrote several books, including “A Guided Tour of the Living Cell” (1984), and “Genetics of Original Sin: The Impact of Natural Selection on the Future of Humanity” (2012).

Besides his son Thierry, survivors include another son, Alain; two daughters, Anne and Françoise; two brothers, Pierre and Daniel; seven grandchildren; and two great-grandsons.  His wife, Janine, died five years ago.

Dr. de Duve spent his last month writing letters telling friends and colleagues of his decision to end his life. In an interview with the Belgian newspaper Le Soir, published after his death, he said he had put off his death until his four children could be with him.

In the interview, he said he was at peace with his decision.

“It would be an exaggeration to say I’m not afraid of death,” he said, “but I’m not afraid of what comes after, because I’m not a believer.”
187 2013-05-07 Harper Lee, who skillfully chronicled courtroom drama in “To Kill a Mockingbird,” is tangled in a legal drama of her own. Ms. Lee, 87, filed a lawsuit last week accusing her literary agent, Samuel Pinkus, of improperly collecting royalties from “Mockingbird” since 2007. According to the complaint, filed in federal court in New York, Mr. Pinkus “engaged in a scheme to dupe Harper Lee, then 80 years old with declining hearing and eyesight,” into assigning the book’s copyright to his company. Ms. Lee does not recall signing the document or discussing it with Mr. Pinkus, the complaint said.

Ms. Lee, who suffered a stroke in June 2007 that has limited her mobility, lives in an assisted living facility in Monroeville, Ala. “To Kill a Mockingbird” was first published in 1960 and won a Pulitzer Prize. It is her only published book.
188 2013-05-07 The largest share of those taxes — $3.90 per flight segment, plus a 7.5 percent ticket tax — goes to the Federal Aviation Administration, mostly for air traffic control. The agency has been criticized recently for failing to trim 5 percent of its budget (as required by the sequestration) without causing widespread flight delays.

In response to those delays, Congress passed legislation allowing the F.A.A. more flexibility in how to make the cuts, but the agency’s spending has come under scrutiny, particularly in light of the airlines’ flight cutbacks.

According to Airlines for America, the number of commercial flights fell 15 percent from 2001 to 2012, while the F.A.A.’s revenue from commercial aviation grew 37 percent. The airline business has changed greatly during that time, especially as fuel prices have skyrocketed.

“The tax structure we have today for aviation is a legacy of the regulated and even the pre-jet era,” Mr. Heimlich said. Noting the belt-tightening that carriers have undertaken, he contended that government agencies like the F.A.A. could benefit from a similar overhaul.

“I see these agencies as part of our supply chain that have not gone through the same type of restructuring,” he said.

Mr. Obama’s budget proposal would also increase the taxes air travelers pay for customs inspections, to $7.50 from $5.50 for an international flight. And the tax used to pay for immigration services would increase to $9 from $7. Yet the travel industry has complained that waiting times to enter the United States have increased, sometimes stretching to hours at busy airports. It is not clear whether all the new revenue would be used to hire additional inspectors at those airports.

Another proposed tax increase would raise the security fee to $5 per one-way trip from $2.50 per flight segment, doubling the tax paid by passengers on nonstop flights. That money goes to the Transportation Security Administration, which has been criticized by Congress, the Government Accountability Office and passengers over wasteful spending.

Most of the additional money raised by the higher security fee would be used to reduce the deficit. The remainder would shift more of the burden of paying for security screening to air travelers instead of general taxpayers.

Right now, those travelers cover less than half of the T.S.A.’s budget through the security fee, leaving taxpayers to make up the difference — a situation some researchers say they believe leads to a lack of accountability.

“If this were all paid for by the aviation sector, there would be a strong incentive for the aviation sector to call attention to poorly justified programs and get Congress to rein them in,” said Robert Poole, director of transportation policy at the Reason Foundation, a libertarian research firm.

While he does not support taxing air travelers to reduce the deficit, he disagrees with the airline industry’s characterization of existing travel taxes as “sin taxes,” arguing that they are not like taxes on cigarettes or alcohol.

“That is so bogus because every one of these taxes is an aviation excise tax — it’s all paying for infrastructure,” Mr. Poole said. “If these taxes didn’t exist, the airlines would be paying for infrastructure through more use of direct fees.”

That user fee model is more common in other countries for services like air traffic control, and given the latest turmoil at the F.A.A., there is growing support for a similar approach in the United States.

Stephen Van Beek, a member of the F.A.A. Management Advisory Council, a group appointed by the transportation secretary, said there was unanimous consent among its members that changes needed to be made to the agency’s oversight and financing model.

Mr. Van Beek cited the two dozen extensions of the F.A.A.’s authority that Congress approved before passing a reauthorization bill last year, Congressional influence over which air traffic towers the agency can close and other instances of politics taking precedence over sound business decisions, saying it was time for a new approach.

“I don’t know how many more examples people need in order to determine we need to reform the system,” he said. “Congress today basically acts as a board of directors for the F.A.A.”

Mr. Van Beek, an executive director at the transportation consulting firm LeighFisher, also pointed out that the airline industry’s shift toward charging fees for things like checked bags and priority seating had affected the agency’s budget, since those fees were not subject to the 7.5 percent tax.

“When you reduce overall ticket prices and you raise ancillary fees, you’re actually providing less money for air traffic controllers,” he said.

As those fees proliferate, that loss of revenue is substantial. According to Airlines for America, revenue from baggage and change fees added up to an average of $23 a passenger in the first nine months of 2012 — jumping from $2.50 a passenger in 2000.

If the airlines had instead simply raised fares by $20, the F.A.A. would have received almost $1 billion in additional revenue last year from ticket taxes, far more than the agency recently had to cut because of the sequestration. But there is not a consensus that additional revenue is necessary.

“If you let the F.A.A. run their operation as a commercial business,” Mr. Van Beek said, “we think they would have enough money.”
189 2013-05-07 A friend of popes and a daily attendant at Mass, Mr. Andreotti was complex and enigmatic. He helped shape the policies that placed Italy among the world’s richest democracies, the Group of 7. But his ultimate inability to rein in the government profligacy that had helped anchor his party’s popularity caused Italy’s indebtedness to balloon.

He was known for a sardonic, sometimes caustic wit. “Power,” he liked to say, “wears out only those who don’t have it.”

On another occasion, he said, “Apart from the Punic Wars, for which I was too young, I have been blamed for everything.”

Former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain was wary of him. In her memoirs, she wrote of him as a man possessing a “positive aversion to principle, even a conviction that a man of principle was doomed to be a figure of fun.”

Others believed his character and deeds reflected his Catholicism. Gerardo Bianco, a longtime political associate, was quoted as saying, “Andreotti belongs to a certain Jesuitical, clerical tradition in which you accept that in a fallen world, you have to work with the material at hand.”

Probably his most traumatic episode as prime minister unfolded in March 1978, when the Red Brigades, a radical Marxist-Leninist paramilitary group, kidnapped the former Prime Minister Aldo Moro in a street ambush and killed his five bodyguards. They demanded the release of their leaders, who were then on trial in Turin.

Moro was one of Mr. Andreotti’s oldest friends and associates, but a sometime rival as well. In desperate letters to Mr. Andreotti and others, he pleaded with them to rescue him through a prisoner exchange. Mr. Andreotti, though clearly anguished, refused, having resolved not to negotiate with terrorists.

Weeks later, Moro’s body was found in Rome in a battered old car, two blocks from the headquarters of both the Christian Democrats and the Communists.

Mr. Andreotti’s critics contended that his refusal to help Moro was politically motivated, an accusation he denied.

Mr. Andreotti’s detractors in Parliament had him investigated more than 20 times, whenever some scandal or malfeasance was rumored. As early as 1984, and perhaps even earlier, American diplomats in Sicily had reported to Washington that Mr. Andreotti’s Sicilian party faction was reputed to be closely tied to the Mafia. In Italy, he won full vindication each time.

Mr. Andreotti’s reputation was sullied again in his later years, when he was put on trial twice. Informers said that he had colluded with the Mafia in exchange for electoral support, and implicated him in the killing of a muckraking Italian journalist. He was acquitted in both trials.

Mr. Andreotti maintained strong ties with the Vatican, having had a hand in rewriting its 1929 agreement with Mussolini. In 1976, as prime minister, Mr. Andreotti presented to Parliament an updated version of the accord, bringing it into line with the secular lives led by most Italians: it abolished Roman Catholicism as the state religion, made religious instruction in public schools optional and removed the church’s ban of Italy’s six-year-old divorce law.

The accord was finally ratified in 1984 under Bettino Craxi, Italy’s first Socialist prime minister, whom Mr. Andreotti was serving as foreign minister.

Mr. Andreotti was also prime minister when Parliament, after years of arguments and compromises, passed a liberal abortion law in 1978 despite Vatican opposition and only lax support from his Christian Democrats. Three years later, the electorate voted by better than two to one to uphold the law.

He could be shrewd and pragmatic. Though he started out as a staunch anti-Communist, Mr. Andreotti was the first prime minister to find an accommodation with the Italian Communist Party, the country’s second-strongest electoral force.

The compromise, engineered in 1976, ostensibly gave the Communist Party a role in policy making in return for a promise not to trip up the government in votes of confidence. Ignoring the outcries of its rank and file, the Communists helped Mr. Andreotti pass painful austerity measures that kept the country from drowning in debt.

In the end, it was the Communists who called off the engagement. The break came in December 1978, with Mr. Andreotti’s decision to take Italy into the European monetary system. He wheedled concessions out of Germany and France for a weaker lira and put his proposal to a vote.

As foreseen, the Communists cast their first nays on a substantive issue. But the Socialists abstained rather than derail the government, and that left a comfortable margin for membership in the monetary system. Thus Mr. Andreotti won an impressive gamble.

The Communists caused his fall a month later on a vote of confidence.

Giulio Andreotti was born on Jan. 14, 1919, to a teacher who died when he was a year old. After growing up in Rome in modest circumstances, he worked his way through the University of Rome and earned a law degree. From 1942 to 1945, he presided over the Italian Catholic University Federation, a student organization, and edited its weekly.

While doing research at the Vatican in 1942, he met De Gasperi, an anti-Fascist who had found refuge there as a librarian and hoped to resuscitate the Christian Democratic Party when Mussolini had passed from the scene. De Gasperi led eight successive cabinets from 1945 to 1953, and Mr. Andreotti served him as under secretary of state, a post with considerable influence.

Mr. Andreotti is survived by his wife, Livia Danese, and four children.

He was the author of numerous books, including “Lives: Encounters With History Makers,” published in 1989.

After the fall of Communism, Mr. Andreotti spent six months in 1990 as the president of the European Community, working to improve relations with the new democracies of the former Soviet bloc, to establish a European Central Bank and to keep world trade from becoming mired in protectionism.

He raised eyebrows in Paris and London by saying out loud what others had said only privately: that France and Britain should accept their diminished power and yield their permanent United Nations Security Council seats to the European Community and Japan.

The events that tested Mr. Andreotti most in his later years began to unfold in late 1992, when charges resurfaced that he had for years been the Sicilian Mafia’s protector in Rome in exchange for political support. One Mafia informant said that Mr. Andreotti had met with Salvatore (Toto) Riina, the “boss of all bosses,” in 1987 and the men had exchanged a kiss of respect.

Other accusations centered on allegations that Mr. Andreotti had conspired in the killing of an investigative journalist, Carmine Pecorelli, in March 1979.

After Parliament stripped Mr. Andreotti of his immunity in 1993, he was tried in Palermo, Sicily, in 1995, on charges of associating with the Mafia, and in Perugia in 1996 on charges of conspiring in the killing of the journalist. (The Palermo trial was adjourned pending a verdict in Perugia.)

Mr. Andreotti was acquitted in Perugia in 1999. That same year, he was acquitted in Palermo on the basis of insufficient evidence, not quite the exoneration he had hoped for.

Mr. Andreotti repeatedly questioned the motives and reliability of the informers, suggesting the Mafia was getting back at him for his efforts to fight organized crime.

“As far as I know, none of the informers has ever said anything that they knew directly,” he told The New York Times in January 1993. “They always say, ‘I heard about it.’ And the people they cite are all dead.”

Praised for his political durability, Mr. Andreotti was also labeled “Beelzebub” for his secretive dealings. Others called him the “Divo Giulio,” a play on his first name and the Latin “Divus Iulius” (or Divine Julius), used for Julius Caesar.

His political career inspired biographies and an unflattering movie that gave him a dismal place in Italian history. The film, “Il Divo,” by Paolo Sorrentino, won the Jury Prize at the Cannes Film Festival in 2008.

Asked for his reaction to the film, Mr. Andreotti told the Italian news media, “If you are a politician, I hear it’s better to be criticized than ignored.”
190 2013-05-07 In an interview over the weekend with Swiss-Italian television, Carla Del Ponte, one of the leading figures in a Geneva-based United Nations commission of inquiry, said there were strong suspicions that the rebels seeking Mr. Assad’s overthrow had themselves used sarin, a nerve agent, but there was no “incontrovertible proof” that they had.

“Our investigators have been in neighboring countries interviewing victims, doctors and field hospitals,” she said, and “according to their report of last week, which I have seen, there are strong, concrete suspicions, but not yet incontrovertible proof, of the use of sarin gas, from the way the victims were treated.”

“This was use on the part of the opposition, the rebels, not by the government authorities,” she added. She did not elaborate on where the chemicals might have been used. Ms. Del Ponte is one of four investigators chosen by the 47-nation United Nations Human Rights Council in August 2011 to report periodically on the Syrian situation. Their next report is set for publication in late May, officials in Geneva said, but it was not immediately clear whether it would document findings relating to chemical weapons.

It was also unclear whether Ms. Del Ponte was speaking on behalf of all four investigators. But a statement that the commission of inquiry released later in Geneva qualified Ms. Del Ponte’s assertions, emphasizing “that it has not reached conclusive findings as to the use of chemical weapons in Syria by any parties to the conflict.”

The United States also cast some doubt on Ms. Del Ponte’s assertions. George Little, a Pentagon spokesman, declined to comment on them directly, but he told reporters in Washington: “It’s our very strong belief, based on what we know, that at this stage, if chemical weapons were used, the Syrian regime would be responsible.”

The insurgents said the reported findings described by Ms. Del Ponte were a “big lie.”

Ms. Del Ponte’s comments were made at a time when the rebels assert that Syria has already crossed the “red line” laid down as a warning to Mr. Assad not to deploy such weapons, although Western powers say the evidence is not yet conclusive.

“The Syrian regime has used the chemical weapons against civilians many times,” most recently near Idlib in the north, said Maj. Gen. Adnan Sillo, a defector from the Syrian military who had headed a chemical warfare unit. “And there is no doubt that the regime will use it more often, as this is its strategy in the war since the beginning of oppressing the uprising, to move gradually.”

The dispute over chemical weapons came as the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, an opposition group that is based in Britain and draws information from a network of activists within Syria, posted video on Monday showing combatants standing in front of what appeared to be the wreckage of a helicopter.

The group said eight government soldiers were aboard the helicopter when it came down in eastern Syria. The assertion was significant because air power has given Mr. Assad’s forces a significant edge, prompting the insurgents to take action against both aircraft and air bases.

On Sunday, the Observatory said, rebel forces occupied part of the Mannagh military air base in northern Syria near the border with Turkey after days of clashes, leading to renewed airstrikes by government forces seeking to dislodge them.
191 2013-05-08 Six Generations in the Lemon Business
192 2013-05-08 In an industry known for reclusive traders and math geeks, Wall Street’s Anthony Scaramucci is a P. T. Barnum in a Ferragamo tie....
193 2013-05-08 Senate Democrats on Wednesday postponed a committee vote on the nomination of Thomas E. Perez to lead the Labor Department after the chamber’s top Republican raised doubts about Mr. Perez’s ethics....
194 2013-05-08 Microsoft named Amy Hood as its chief financial officer, the first woman to hold the job. She was most recently the chief financial officer of the business division, which oversees Office applications....
195 2013-05-08 BlackBerry’s phones have been off to a weak start in Canada, the company’s own home turf. But the Z10 touch-screen is getting a warm welcome from Verizon Wireless, the biggest American carrier....
196 2013-05-08 A view of installation work at the Frieze Art Fair, which opens Friday....
197 2013-05-08 Even before the tragedy in Bangladesh, pressure was growing on retailers to balance Americans’ appetite for cheap clothes with the human costs of making them, the author Elizabeth Cline says.
198 2013-05-08 Almost 100,000 homeowners got checks for less than they were owed under the settlement with the nation’s biggest banks....
199 2013-05-08 Two studies have found that depression and the use of certain antidepressants are associated with increased risk for Clostridium difficile infection, an increasingly common cause of diarrhea that in the worst cases can be fatal....
200 2013-05-08 The share of Americans who have money invested in stocks has been falling in recent years....
201 2013-05-08 Apple’s chief financial officer, Peter Oppenheimer, who has helped the company sidestep billions of dollars in taxes, was the highest paid C.F.O. of 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News....
202 2013-05-08 In the latest Intersection video, we head to Dumbo, Brooklyn and met people that work in the area, who draw their style inspiration from music festivals and furniture design....
203 2013-05-08 A co-author of a new Heritage Foundation study highly critical of the Senate’s bipartisan immigration proposal also wrote a doctoral dissertation in which he argued that immigrants generally have an I.Q. that is “substantially lower than that ...
204 2013-05-08 The Open Compute Project, a Facebook-led, open-source effort to build big data centers better and cheaper, is going after networking hardware. The project could prod competition among networking gear makers. It could also be a blow to Google, whic...
205 2013-05-08 Several mayoral hopefuls said the next schools chancellor needed to be an educator, but Christine C. Quinn said she would not rule out any candidates, especially those who work at education nonprofits....
206 2013-05-08 Shares of Manchester United, which went public in New York last year, fell after Alex Ferguson announced his retirement as manager of the English soccer team....
207 2013-05-08 Top-ranked Novak Djokovic was ousted from the Madrid Open, 7-6, 6-7 (8), 6-3, by the unseeded Bulgarian Grigor Dimitrov after straining his right ankle. Djokovic was down a break in the second set when he twisted the same ankle he injured while playing for Serbia in the Davis Cup last month.
208 2013-05-08 Dr. Simons, who was not involved in the study, said the development of new genetic tests like the one from Genomic Health represented a “watershed,” akin to going from pulse rate measurements to electrocardiograms in cardiology.

Still, some experts said it was too early to assess how accurate the test really was and whether it would make a difference in men’s decisions. Insurers are going to want to know that before deciding to pay for the test, which will be available starting Wednesday at a list price of $3,820.

Even the senior investigator of the study, Dr. Peter R. Carroll, said he was not sure.

“Certainly for a group of men it will have an impact,” Dr. Carroll, who is chairman of urology at the University of California, San Francisco, said in an interview. “The question is how many men and how many physicians.”

The new test, which is called the Oncotype DX Prostate Cancer Test, is one of more than a dozen coming to market that use advanced genetic methods to help better manage prostate cancer. The most direct competitor to the Oncotype test is likely to be the Prolaris test, introduced last year by Myriad Genetics.

But Genomic Health’s test has attracted attention because of the company’s track record. It already sells a similar test for breast cancer, also Oncotype DX, that is widely used to help women decide whether they can forgo chemotherapy after their tumor is surgically removed.

Some analysts say that with the breast cancer test facing intensified competition, the company’s future growth could hinge on the prostate test, which could take time to gain acceptance. Genomic Health’s stock closed Tuesday at $33.87, up 1 percent.

The test looks at the activity level of 17 genes in the biopsy sample and computes a score from 0 to 100 showing the risk that cancer is aggressive.

To see how well the test worked, testing was performed on archived biopsy samples from 412 patients who had what was considered low or intermediate-risk cancer but then underwent surgery.

In many such cases, the tumor, which can be closely studied after it is surgically removed, turns out to be more aggressive than thought based on the biopsy, which looks at only a tiny sample of the tumor.

The researchers found that the Oncotype test predicted such unfavorable pathology more accurately than existing methods, which depend mainly on the Gleason score based on how the biopsy sample looks under the microscope.

Genomic Health said that 26 percent of the samples were classified as very low risk by its test, compared to only 5 to 10 percent for the existing methods. In some cases, however, the new test showed the cancer to be more aggressive than the existing methods.

Some experts not involved in the study were cautiously optimistic.

“They showed a pretty good correlation with the score and how it predicts things,” said Dr. E. David Crawford, a professor of urology, surgery and radiation oncology at the University of Colorado. He has consulted for Myriad Genetics and said he might become a consultant to Genomic Health.

Dr. Stacy Loeb, assistant professor of urology at New York University, said, “I think it will help — they definitely showed it improves upon what we are using now.” She said it was not clear, however, how the Genomic Health and Myriad tests compared to each other.
209 2013-05-08 HONG KONG — Trade figures for April released by the Chinese government on Wednesday morning were slightly better than economists expected, but still indicated that demand was fairly weak in foreign markets and in China itself.

Exports and imports both increased last month compared with a year earlier, but the figures were harder than usual to interpret because April of last year was so weak. Imports and exports all but stopped growing in April of last year as a wide range of industries, perceiving a short, sharp domestic economic slowdown that would last until early autumn, stopped buying industrial commodities, even as foreign buyers cut orders as well.

Compared with that weak base, China’s trade figures for last month looked somewhat better. Exports rose 14.7 percent from a year ago, while imports increased 16.8 percent.

But the trade figures were far from strong enough to suggest that foreign demand could pull China out of what seems to be a deepening economic malaise. Although official figures still show the economy steaming along at a growth rate of nearly 8 percent, a range of purchasing manager surveys last month showed growing worry among business executives across China.

“China is in a very difficult position now,” as American and European consumers seem wary of further increases in the coming months in their purchases of Chinese goods, said Diana Choyleva, an economist in the Hong Kong office of Lombard Street Research, an economic analysis firm.
210 2013-05-08 The United States Tennis Association said on Tuesday that it had reached an agreement with New York City over a contentious plan to acquire a strip of parkland in Queens as part of an overhaul of facilities for the United States Open tournament.

Efforts by the tennis association to take over the 0.68-acre plot of land in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park have provoked fierce resistance from local residents, who have complained of a steady encroachment of private interests on public land.

As part of the deal, the tennis association agreed to give the city 1.56 acres of parkland that it already controlled in exchange for the 0.68-acre plot, which consists mostly of a paved pathway. The plot will be incorporated into renovation plans for the Billie Jean King National Tennis Center, which the association uses for the United States Open.

The city had initially proposed handing over 0.68 acres with the idea that the association would pay for improvements to the park, Daniel Zausner, the chief operating officer of the tennis center, said in a statement.

“However, understanding that every inch of parkland is precious and after seeking input and recommendations from the local Queens communities and elected officials, the U.S.T.A., in consultation with the parks department, decided it was in the best interest of all parties to propose a parkland swap,” Mr. Zausner said.
211 2013-05-08 The federal circuit court issued an injunction in April 2012, suspending the labor board’s rule, after two lower courts differed on whether the board had overstepped its powers.

The circuit court cited several Supreme Court rulings to reach its decision that employers have a right to disseminate views as well as a right not to disseminate views. The court relied on First Amendment rulings that prohibit the government from telling people what they must say, like telling schoolchildren they must recite the Pledge of Allegiance.

Many businesses asserted that the labor board’s proposed poster was one-sided and pro-union, although the board said the poster was neutral.

The National Association of Manufacturers applauded the court’s ruling, calling it “an important victory in the fight against an activist N.L.R.B. and its aggressive agenda.”

“The poster rule is a prime example of a government agency that seeks to fundamentally change the way employers and employees communicate,” the manufacturers’ association said. “The ultimate result of the N.L.R.B.’s intrusion would be to create hostile work environments where none exist.”

The A.F.L.-C.I.O. attacked the ruling. “The Republican judges of the D.C. Circuit continue to wreak havoc on workers’ rights,” its president, Richard L. Trumka, said. The labor federation, like the Obama administration, was already upset with the circuit court for ruling in January that President Obama’s recess appointments to the labor board were illegal and that the board thus did not have a quorum needed to operate. The Obama administration has appealed that decision to the Supreme Court.

Mr. Trumka questioned the sweep of Tuesday’s ruling, saying: “In today’s workplace, employers are required to display posters explaining wage and hour rights, health and safety and discrimination laws, even emergency escape routes. The circuit court’s ruling suggests that courts should strike down hundreds of notice requirements, not only those that inform workers about their rights and warn them of hazards, but also those on cigarette packages, in home mortgages and many other areas.”

In holding that the labor board could not punish employers for failing to post the notice, the court decided to vacate the rule altogether, saying that the labor board would not have wanted to propose a merely voluntary rule that it could not enforce.

In a statement, the labor board said it was reviewing Tuesday’s ruling and would “make a decision on further proceedings at the appropriate time.” It noted that the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals was also reviewing the legality of the poster rule.
212 2013-05-08 The variables for Kewaunee, which is about 35 miles southeast of Green Bay, include the amount it can win in a legal dispute with the Energy Department, which was supposed to start taking away the spent fuel more than a decade ago but will not begin doing so for many years to come. Other factors are the scrap value of the tons of steel and copper in its equipment and structure, and the rate of return it can earn, above inflation, on the $578 million reserve Dominion has set aside.

Three Wisconsin state agencies said they had had no jurisdiction since the public service commission approved the sale of Kewaunee eight years ago. That does not mean that no one is concerned.

“It’s a strange situation for sure, for Wisconsin, which has very little to do with a decision made by another entity, and it’s going to be around for another 60 years,” said Charles Higley, the director of the Citizens Utility Board, a nonprofit agency that seeks to represent residential consumers, farmers and small businesses before the public service commission.

But the chief nuclear officer of Dominion, David A. Heacock, said his company projected that the money on hand would be enough, even before recovering money from the Energy Department, which it estimates could amount to $350 million, or the income from the sale of scrap metal.

Still, the retirement comes at a time of rapid cost inflation. Last month, Mr. Dusaniwskyj told stock analysts in a conference call organized by UBS Investment Research that the utilities’ estimate of the cost of decommissioning was rising 8 to 9 percent a year, pushed by the cost of burying the lightly contaminated concrete and steel. That cost could change markedly in coming years, depending on whether more low-level radioactive waste dumps open.

Representative Edward J. Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat, said in a letter sent to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission on Monday that several reactor owners had recently filed documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Those documents indicated that their plants were worth far less than previously assumed, since the market price of the electricity they produced had dropped sharply because of low natural gas prices. (That is what made Kewaunee unprofitable.)

Earlier this year, he pointed out, the owners of the Crystal River 3 plant in Florida decided to retire it rather than repair its containment structure, because of unfavorable economics. Industry experts say that several reactors are operating at a loss while their owners wait for the glut of natural gas to disappear. How long that will be, and how many will last, is not clear.

“Once these old nuclear reactors shut down — as we’re seeing now — it will take 60 years and hundreds of millions of dollars to decontaminate them,” Mr. Markey said in a statement. “Taxpayers should have assurances that these nuclear relics don’t outlive their corporate owners and their ability to fund nuclear cleanup costs, leaving ordinary Americans to foot the bill.”

The concern is relatively new because in the past, reactors were locally owned, so their economic benefits — or their costs — accrued for a population that a utility could appeal to for money if it ran short. Mr. Heacock noted, however, that this was never assured. A public service commission might tell such a utility, “you collected the money already, you figure out how to make it work, or go to your shareholders for the difference,” he said.

Dominion filed plans in February to shut down the reactor. Mr. Heacock said that the experience of another company, Energy Solutions, which is decommissioning Commonwealth Edison’s old Zion reactors north of Chicago, was that it might be cheaper to do the job in the next decade or so.

Decommissioning Kewaunee will require equipment that is available now, and also human skills, including the intimate knowledge gained by workers who have been at the site for years. “After 10 years, people knowledgeable about the plant were no longer around,” he said of the Zion reactors.
213 2013-05-08 That challenge burst into view on Sunday with a series of spectacular airstrikes that brightened the night sky over the Syrian capital, Damascus. American officials said Israel unleashed the attack to knock out sophisticated long-range missiles on their way from Iran to Hezbollah.

Israel has hit such shipments regularly in Lebanon and twice recently in Syria, but the sheer scope and boldness of Sunday’s strikes, analysts said, threw down a gauntlet to Hezbollah, Iran and Syria that could put the Lebanese group at greater risk as Israel appears to take advantage of the chaos in Syria to hit its nemesis with near impunity.

Politically, the strikes could help Hezbollah’s leader, Hassan Nasrallah, who has sought to defend Hezbollah’s involvement in Syria by defining the uprising as an Israeli-American plot to destroy Mr. Assad and Hezbollah for opposing Israel.

But the strike also could undermine Mr. Nasrallah, said Mahmoud Haddad, a professor at the University of Balamand in Lebanon, if Hezbollah, not wanting to open a new battlefront, does not retaliate.

“They talk the talk, but as you say in America, they don’t walk the walk,” he said.

Militarily, even frequent Israeli strikes at its weapons in Syria would not immediately harm Hezbollah, said Timur Goksel, an editor at Al-Monitor and a former political adviser to United Nations peacekeepers in Lebanon. It has an estimated 60,000 missiles in the country already, more than enough to deter Israeli attacks, and to strike back.

But, Mr. Goksel said, as Israel and Hezbollah deepen their involvement in Syria’s civil war, the chances grow of a miscalculation or mistake that could spark direct conflict or a regional conflagration.

Hezbollah is eager to avoid that; it might be able to bloody Israel and survive its bombardment, but the political costs in Lebanon would be high, experts said.

“What do I care if they destroy Tel Aviv and lose Beirut?” said Amin Hoteit, a retired Lebanese colonel close to Hezbollah.

But Hezbollah may face pressure from its own ranks to respond, said Nicholas Blanford, the author of “Warriors of God,” a military history of the group.

“Hezbollah guys don’t join to go and fight Arab Muslims in Syria and turn the other cheek when Israeli jets go and blow up weapons,” he said.

Hezbollah has already paid a political price for its Syria stance. Supporting Mr. Assad’s brutal crackdown has already destroyed its reputation in the wider Arab world as a champion of the underdog.

Now it is stoking anger in Lebanon, where rivals say that Hezbollah, the most powerful political player, has betrayed promises to use its arms only to defend Lebanon.

But instead of backing away from Mr. Assad, Hezbollah has doubled down. Early in the Syrian conflict, it quietly tried to mediate a solution, then played down its involvement in Syria. Now, by comparison, it practically trumpets its presence.

Funerals for the small but steady stream of Hezbollah fighters killed in Syria honor them as martyrs with all the pomp, circumstance and television coverage previously reserved for those who died fighting Israel. Hezbollah says they are defending Lebanese civilians in Syria, but no longer claims that they are individuals fighting on their own initiative.

“They are very organized; no one can breathe without orders,” said Abdulrahim Mourad, a member of Hezbollah’s March 8 parliamentary coalition.

And they are handling crucial missions in Syria. Mr. Mourad said that when he visited Mr. Assad in Damascus recently with a March 8 delegation, the president described the fight in Homs Province — where Hezbollah is fighting in Qusair — as a top priority. It is an arms corridor for rebels and links the capital with the coastal region that is a government stronghold.

Hezbollah is also helping train Syria’s pro-government militiamen into a more formal National Defense Force, Israeli and American officials say.

Success on the ground is intensifying the backlash from Sunnis, fueling sectarian anger. Sunni fighters have filmed themselves burning Shiite religious centers in Syria and sent calls for help to protect them from Hezbollah’s “Shiite dogs” or “the party of the devil,” a play on Hezbollah’s name, the Party of God.

Last month, rebels lobbed shells across the border at the Hezbollah-controlled town of Hermel, killing a boy and a man visiting his fiancée, the group Human Rights Watch reported.

That has only toughened Hezbollah’s conviction that the Syrian revolution threatens the Shiites, who are believed to be the largest group in Lebanon, but a minority in the region.

Lebanon’s Sunnis and Shiites are fighting on opposite sides in Syria, but so far not in Lebanon, even though the border along the Bekaa Valley teems with Hezbollah and Sunni militants heading in and out of Syria.

Despite all this, Hezbollah is still vigilant on the Israeli border, and its military is not too stretched to fight Israel, Mr. Blanford, the author, said. It has at most a few thousand fighters in Syria, analysts say, while its total force has grown to about 5,000 full-time fighters and as many as 15,000 in reserve.

If Mr. Assad falls, Hezbollah fears Israel would go after it, knowing it could no longer replenish its arms.

In the meantime, Syria is “a training battle,” said Dr. Kamel Wazni, another Lebanese analyst close to Hezbollah. “Preparation for the bigger battle.”
214 2013-05-08 HONG KONG — China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Tuesday criticized a Pentagon report that explicitly accused China’s military of staging attacks on the computer systems of the American government and military contractors.

“China has repeatedly said that we resolutely oppose all forms of hacker attacks,” said a ministry spokeswoman, Hua Chunying. “We’re willing to carry out an even-tempered and constructive dialogue with the U.S. on the issue of Internet security. But we are firmly opposed to any groundless accusations and speculations, since they will only damage the cooperation efforts and atmosphere between the two sides to strengthen dialogue and cooperation.”

In its annual report to Congress on Chinese military capabilities, which was released on Monday, the Pentagon said that last year, “numerous computer systems around the world, including those owned by the U.S. government, continued to be targeted for intrusions, some of which appear to be attributable directly to the Chinese government and military.”

In a telephone interview, a retired People’s Liberation Army major general, Xu Guangyu, who is now a senior consultant at the China Arms Control and Disarmament Association in Beijing, voiced sentiments similar to that of Ms. Hua. He said that China was the victim, not perpetrator, of Internet hacking.

“From the president down, people in the United States have leveled accusations, and China has already many times answered those accusations,” General Xu said. “Everyone knows that on the Internet, the United States wields absolute advantage and control.”

He called for the United States to take the lead on international talks to set rules on cyberespionage. “It should be the United States that sets an example of sitting down for discussions on an equal footing, and setting better rules to reduce the damage, because it’s the United States that has absolute dominance,” he said.
215 2013-05-08 “I looked up to David Aebischer when he made it, and that showed we could make it here from Switzerland,” Hiller said, referring to a goalie who played in the N.H.L. from 2001 to 2008. “Younger players at home can see us playing and know they can make it, too. There are going to be more of us coming, as I think it is a good time for Swiss hockey.”

The Swiss national team achieved a milestone Sunday in Stockholm, defeating Canada for the second time in 28 meetings at the world championships. The Swiss won, 3-2, in the eighth round of a shootout. They followed it up with a 5-2 victory over the Czech Republic on Monday and are 3-0 in the preliminary round of the tournament.

“We do hear a lot from people at home who are watching us; we can tell they are excited for us,” said Brunner, who led the Swiss National League A in scoring before joining the Red Wings this season. “I see how people are talking about Swiss hockey and how the national team beat Canada. It’s a fantastic thing for all of us.”

Brunner stashed the puck from the game-winning goal, which he called the biggest of his career, on the lower shelf of his neat locker. He did make note of his connection to Hiller, who turned away 46 shots, but not Brunner’s last one.

“Jonas has been one of the stars of Swiss hockey, absolutely, for a while,” Brunner said. “I obviously wasn’t thinking about that during that play at the end, but it is interesting how we were together at the end. They may be talking about that back home.”

The first Swiss-born player in the N.H.L. was defenseman Mark Hardy, who actually grew up in Canada. Hardy broke in during the 1979-80 season with Los Angeles.

A bigger impact was made by forward Paul DePietro, who was born in Canada and later became a Swiss citizen. He started a six-year N.H.L. career with the Canadiens in 1992, moving to the Swiss National League and the 2006 Swiss Olympic team.

It took until 2001 for the Swiss to have numbers in the N.H.L., with Aebischer, the wings Michel Riesen and Thomas Ziegler, and center Reto Von Arx.

Brunner, despite starring in the Swiss League and having experience on two world championships teams, acknowledged that his jump to the N.H.L. this season had been challenging.

He started the lockout-shortened season with 10 goals and 6 assists in the first 19 games. His production dropped off as the compressed season, unfamiliar travel grind and more physical competition took its toll. He finished the 48-game regular season with 12 goals and 12 assists.

He has been inconsistent against the Ducks: silent in Game 1, shining in Game 2 with a goal and two assists, then a critical open-ice turnover in Game 3 that led to the Ducks’ second goal.

“Being up and down is expected; this was a tough year for all of us with that schedule,” said the Red Wings’ captain, Henrik Zetterberg. “I’ve seen a lot of growth. You have to learn how to play in this league, get stronger and smarter — we’ve all had to do it. He’s fitting in well with us and will get better as he goes.”

Hiller, too, has had his challenges this season. He had to fight for the No. 1 playoff goalie spot with the newcomer Viktor Fasth. Ducks Coach Bruce Boudreau declared a co-No. 1 goalie system heading into the playoffs, with Hiller claiming supremacy so far. Starting from his shutout in Game 3 through the second period in Game 4, Hiller had blanked the Red Wings for 100 minutes.

“I feel good right now, I think I deserve to be in net right now, so I am not going to think about anything else,” said Hiller, who was in net for the Ducks for their 2009 playoff run. “This is going to be a tight series; we expect that from the Red Wings. So we keep playing.”
216 2013-05-08 In hip-hop, as in all things, you get what you pay for, even if you don’t read the fine print.

Three times in recent weeks large companies have learned this the hard way, severing ties with rappers they had previously happily paid to endorse their products: Reebok dropped Rick Ross over objectionable lyrics, and PepsiCo’s Mountain Dew did the same to Lil Wayne, just days after it had cut short an ad campaign it had worked on with Tyler, the Creator.

This is a neon-bright sign of corporate retrenchment in the face of protest, bad press and flashes of moral rectitude. Mr. Ross’s casual lyrics about rape incited a petition and a protest outside a New York Reebok store. Lil Wayne’s lyrics spurred an outcry from relatives of Emmett Till, the black teenager murdered during the civil rights era whom the rapper had mentioned in a vulgar context. Tyler, the Creator was jettisoned after a black scholar called his soda commercials racist.

But these reactions are also a signal of how expendable hip-hop culture — and, by extension, black culture and youth culture — is to mainstream, predominantly white-owned corporations. These companies have been happy to associate with hip-hop while turning a blind eye to some of the genre’s rougher edges, but at the same time they have remained at arm’s length, all the better to dispose of hip-hop artists once their liabilities outweighed their assets.

This is a familiar story with roots way back in the culture wars of the 1980s and ’90s, during the days of 2 Live Crew’s obscenity trial and Tipper Gore’s Parents’ Music Resource Center, which coincided with hip-hop’s rise as a cultural force, one both alluring and a potential scourge.

Hip-hop’s commercial power and success, penetrating even the least forgiving corners of the mainstream, seemed to ensure that the old stigma and disapproval had all but vanished. (The same goes for the old accusation that hip-hop artists sold out by partnering with big corporations that held purportedly opposing values — hip-hop took those contradictions and made them into art.) In this environment rappers looked like safer bets than ever for corporate endorsements: widely known and admired, with a frisson of counterculture still stuck to them. They are outsiders recognizable to insiders, and far better celebrities than the generally faceless titans of dance music or the declining stars of rock.

And yet those old debates have returned with a vengeance in recent weeks, re-energized by the frictionless way social media can speed up conversations. In each instance it was only days between the identification of the offense and the end of the business relationship. In the case of Mr. Ross and Lil Wayne the intense criticism was justified. Mr. Ross alluded to nonconsensual sex with a woman, using slang for Ecstasy, in his verse on Rocko’s “U.O.E.N.O.”: “Put molly all in her Champagne, she ain’t even know it/I took her home and I enjoyed that/she ain’t even know it.” Lil Wayne, on his verse in the remix of Future’s “Karate Chop,” invoked Till as part of an explicit sexual simile. (In each situation the offending verse was part of another artist’s song and therefore might have been policed less vigilantly than if it had been on Mr. Ross’s or Lil Wayne’s own album.)
217 2013-05-09 DAVIS--Beatrice Greenapple, 87, of Floral Park, NY, died at home on May 7, 2013, surrounded by her loving family. Born April 7, 1926 in Brooklyn, NY. Beloved daughter of the late Pauline and Jack Greenapple. She is survived by Melvin, her loving h...
218 2013-05-09 LAS VEGAS &#x2014; Just outside the grand ballroom at the Bellagio hotel early Wednesday morning, Anthony Scaramucci, the backslapping host of the country&#x2019;s largest hedge fund conference, spotted Gregory J. Fleming, president of Morgan Stan...
219 2013-05-09 Microsoft named Amy Hood, an executive at the company, as its chief financial officer, the first woman to hold the top finance job at Microsoft. &#xa;   &#xa;Ms. Hood, 41, joined Microsoft in late 2002 and was most recently the chief financial off...
220 2013-05-09 8:58 p.m. | Updated At least these checks cleared.&#xa;   &#xa;Three weeks after checks sent to homeowners as compensation for foreclosure abuses were rejected for insufficient funds, the consulting firm at the center of the mishap erred again: a ...
221 2013-05-09 For many of us, I suspect, our first sense of the past begins with the simple childhood request for a story about our families and ourselves. In her quietly moving, intelligent documentary “Stories We Tell,” the Canadian actress and director Sarah Polley sat down with relatives and friends and asked them to talk about her mother, Diane Polley, who died in 1990 when Ms. Polley was 11. The idea, or so it first seems, is that every fondly unearthed detail, anecdote and memory will fill in the biography of a woman whose seemingly ordinary life — of tending children, husband and home — contained multitudes and mysteries, and with tugging and shaping can be tidied into a story.

The movie begins straightforwardly with Ms. Polley introducing those she has designated as the Storytellers, including her father, Michael; her brothers, John and Mark; and her sisters, Susy and Joanna (a ringer for the director). Speaking off camera and sometimes on, Ms. Polley asks these five — along with other relatives and a handful of her mother’s friends and colleagues —  to talk about Diane from the beginning. And so, from the homey intimacy of their living-room couches, chairs and tables, the Storytellers start digging into a shared past that grows more complex, surprising and touching with each recollection and that Ms. Polley supplements with home movies, old photographs and other visual materials.

As the title suggests, there are many stories to tell, partly because there was nothing neat about Diane Polley, the life she lived and the secrets she kept. Then again, Ms. Polley, her youngest, wasn’t interested in making a traditional portrait of Mum, as her children call her, maybe because Mum wasn’t especially traditional. Whatever the reason, you learn a lot about what other people think about Diane — who’s characterized as both independent and family-oriented, as an extrovert and an enigma — but relatively few facts. There’s nothing about when or where she was born, whether she attended college or when she married. She acted, on and off, but whether she showed real talent remains undiscussed. That she was a good-enough actress, when and where it mattered, becomes evident.

If I seem to be dancing around something, there’s a reason. “Stories We Tell” is an affecting documentary tale about a mother and wife who ached in many of the familiar ways, but didn’t always follow the typical female playbook, which also gives her life the resonance of a mystery that’s too good to spoil here. Diane Polley took liberties, endured tragedies and set off on adventures, the full extent of which the Storytellers reveal with laughter and a deep well of melancholia. She comes across as simultaneously suburban and bohemian, locked into the usual roles and yet also stubbornly liberated from them. How she managed this — while raising her children and pleasing a husband who didn’t always love her the way she needed — is central to the stories and secrets that Ms. Polley gently shares.

“Stories We Tell” has a number of transparent virtues, including its humor and formal design, although its most admirable quality is the deep sense of personal ethics that frames Ms. Polley’s filmmaking choices. Although it touches on intimate points, many recounted by Michael Polley in voice-over, the movie is revelatory rather than exploitative. And while the movie finally proves as much an autobiographical tale as a biographical one, Ms. Polley resists turning it into a flattering self-portrait of a young artist in search of her origins. Instead, building on the interest in narrative form that she expressed in earlier movies like “Take This Waltz,” she explores storytelling itself and the space between a life lived and its different, at times conflicting representations.

That doesn’t make “Stories We Tell” an exercise in relativism. Everyone has his or her memories of Diane Polley, but most adhere to the communally accepted facts of her life. What matters to Ms. Polley is how each person organizes those memories, with love, humor, regret, self-interest or, in the case of Michael Polley, a sometimes wincing mix of emotional detachment and lacerating humor. To watch Ms. Polley — her face drained of readable emotion and her body vibrating, as if from unarticulated anxiety — as she watches Michael talk about Diane and their life together is unexpectedly moving. Not all of these stories are easy. Yet, unlike those filmmakers who explore their family histories to settle scores or indulge in self-mythology, Sarah Polley knows that it is never all about her.
222 2013-05-09 Criticizing its border security measures, a group of law enforcement offers have emerged as one of the most influential conservative groups criticizing the bill....
223 2013-05-09 Jeff Mahin’s Stella Barra, which opened last night, offers a mix of seasonal items and of course, his exceptional pies....
224 2013-05-09 The American Heart Association said owning a dog was “probably associated” with better heart health....
225 2013-05-09 The state accused JPMorgan Chase of flooding its courts with questionable lawsuits to collect a glut of overdue credit card debt....
226 2013-05-09 The SALT hedge fund conference is an ideas conference, a Wall Street bacchanal and a power-networking event. It is also a place to absorb the musings of senior Wall Street money managers and Washington politicos....
227 2013-05-09 Ottavio Missoni, an Italian track star, and his young bride, Rosita, created the Missoni label in the 1950s. Here are some archival runway looks throughout the years....
228 2013-05-09 A publisher’s decision to remove copy protection from its e-books revives a debate over whether such features hurt or help revenue — and not just for books....
229 2013-05-09 The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is urging the creation of more options for refinancing private student loans....
230 2013-05-09 The aftermath of the Libya attacks involves issues deeper than pure politics, as a front-page story detailed....
231 2013-05-09 Why there’s no poster in your workplace pantry summarizing labor law, including the ability to join a union....
232 2013-05-09 Bruce Van Saun, Royal Bank of Scotland’s finance director, has been appointed chief executive of the Citizens Financial Group, the company’s United States unit, two years ahead of its planned initial public offering....
233 2013-05-09 Under the proposed deal, the hedge fund manager Philip A. Falcone has agreed to at least a two-year ban from raising new capital, and he and his fund will pay a fine of $18 million....
234 2013-05-09 Microsoft is said to have offered to take over the Nook unit’s e-books and devices operations, but it is unclear whether there are any current talks on a possible deal....
235 2013-05-09 With her impeccable eye and philanthropic largess, Carla Fendi is aiming to revive the faded glories of the once majestic Spoleto Festival....
236 2013-05-09 Although the Missonis designed as a couple, Mr. Missoni, known as Tai, was the technician, plotting patterns that were inspired by Guatemalan, Aztec and Incan textiles or Abstract, Impressionist and Art Deco paintings. He designed on graph paper, mapping out shapes with startling combinations: primary colors that did battle with earth tones, and polka dots that chased whirling stripes through kaleidoscopic prisms. Mr. Missoni once wrote that he created a chromatic harmony by adding a third color to two clashing ones.

“Color?” he wrote. “What can I say? I like comparing color to music: Only seven notes and yet innumerable melodies have been composed with those seven notes. How many basic colors are there? I don’t remember exactly, seven perhaps, like the notes of the scale, but how many tones or shades does each color have? An infinite number, just as always endless are the hues and nuances composing a work of art.”

Ottavio Missoni was born on Feb. 11, 1921, in Dubrovnik, in what is now Croatia. His father, Vittorio, was an Italian sea captain then stationed on the Dalmatian Coast; his mother, Teresa de Vidovich, was an Austrian countess.

Athletic, handsome and over six feet tall, the young Mr. Missoni was on his way to becoming an international track star — at 18 he was a student world champion in Vienna — when World War II took him to Egypt. As an infantryman in the Italian Army, he took part in the Axis forces’ desert campaign and was captured at El Alamein. After four years in a British prison camp, he was released in 1946 and returned to Italy, where he parlayed his love of track and field competitions into a business, joining a friend, Giorgio Oberweger, in making wool athletic suits.

In 1948, Mr. Missoni qualified to compete in the 400-meter hurdle race at the London Olympics and placed sixth in the event. He also designed his team’s uniforms. It was during that London sojourn that he was introduced to Rosita Jelmini, a 16-year-old convent student from Golasecca, Italy, who was there to study English. He agreed to meet her under the Cupid statue in Piccadilly Circus. They married five years later.

The Jelmini family had a business making shawls and embroidery, and their knowledge of knitting machines helped enable the young couple to start their own business, in 1953, in the basement of their home in Gallarate, about 40 miles northwest of Milan.

At first they made clothes for department stores to sell under the stores’ own labels, but in 1958 they began showing collections under the Missoni name. They were quickly recognized for their unusual presentations; one was an aquatic fashion show set at a pool featuring blowup plastic armchairs and floating furniture.

Their big break came in the early 1960s, when they began making sweaters and dresses using the same machines that had been intended to make shawls and bedspreads. The machines, which created a streaky, space-dyed effect, produced sumptuous, astonishingly lightweight knits. The knits became a Missoni hallmark.

“We try to find superior materials and new ways to use old materials,” Mr. Missoni said in 1971. “But I think our great asset is our simplicity of line. We make it possible for women to be dressed in fashion and still dress very simply.”

As the business expanded, acquiring licenses for fragrances and a home collection, the Missonis constructed a stunning factory about 15 miles from Gallarate in Sumirago, known for its spectacular views of the Alps at sunset. They built a house next door for their three children, Vittorio, Luca and Angela, all of whom have worked for the family business, along with many of their children. Angela Missoni became the company’s designer, and her daughter Margherita appears in its fragrance advertisements.

Besides Margherita, Mr. Missoni’s survivors include his wife, Luca and Angela Missoni and several other grandchildren.

Vittorio Missoni, who was 58 at the time, was in charge of the company’s business operations when his plane went down on Jan. 4 while he was vacationing. His companion, Maurizia Castiglioni, and two other Italians were also onboard.

Since the late 1990s, when Ottavio and Rosita Missoni handed over control of the business to their children, the company has expanded into a lifestyle brand with furniture, fragrances and hotels, as well a collaboration with Target in 2011 that broke many store records.

While they preferred to live and work in the countryside, the Missonis played an important — though somewhat accidental — role in the development of the industrial city of Milan as an international fashion capital.

In 1967, they had been invited to present their collection at a prestigious trade fair at the Pitti Palace in Florence, where, minutes before the show, Mrs. Missoni asked all the models to remove their bras because they were visible beneath the thin layers of knits. On the runway, however, the harsh spotlights made the knits nearly transparent, causing both a scandal (the Missonis were banned from the venue) and a sensation (the fashion cognoscenti eagerly followed them back to Milan, which was just then beginning to stage its own semiannual fashion weeks).

“ ‘What do they think, that Pitti is the Crazy Horse?’ wrote one disgusted journalist at the time,” Vittorio Missoni said during a 2004 retrospective. “Of course, then everyone wanted to see the brand.”
237 2013-05-09 New looks at the pace of global warming and sea-level rise....
238 2013-05-09 The hedge fund faithful gather in Las Vegas and New York for the two big conferences of the year. | The firm responsible for sending checks to homeowners as compensation for foreclosure abuses has erred again. | Tesla will stop detailing how many ...
239 2013-05-09 Why do you think mainstream corporations are interested in having rappers endorse their products in general?...
240 2013-05-09 Hearst Magazines, the publisher of such venerable titles as Esquire and Cosmopolitan, said on Wednesday that it was creating a new position, president of digital media.

The job will go to Troy Young, 45, who will be responsible for content, revenue production and development strategies for Hearst Magazines’ 26 online properties, which include Cosmopolitan.com, Elle.com and RealBeauty.com. The job’s purview extends only to magazines’ online brands, not to their print editions.

Mr. Young has not been employed in traditional media since the 1990s, when he worked for Canadian television. He has spent the last 20 years of his career in what is known as the “pure play” digital-only space.

Mr. Young comes most recently from Say Media, an integrated digital media company that builds its own online brands around themes (like ReadWrite, a technology Web site) or charismatic editors (like xoJane, edited by Jane Pratt, the founding editor of Sassy magazine) and then helps advertisers build branded content for those properties.

Before his time at Say, Mr. Young was chief experience officer of the Omnicom digital agency Organic, with clients such as American Express, Virgin Mobile and Chrysler.
241 2013-05-09 JPMorgan Chase shareholders have an opportunity to strength the company’s corporate governance, but whether they’ll take advantage is uncertain....
242 2013-05-09 “Whether you agree or disagree with the Heritage study, what their co-author believes is downright insulting and shameful,” said Ali Noorani, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, a group that has mobilized support for the bill. “Heritage has really become an outlier. The rest of the country is having a 21st-century conversation about immigration reform, and Heritage is caught in 1800. I really think their entire credibility is in question.”

Jim DeMint, the former South Carolina senator who resigned last year to become Heritage’s president, has been trying to forge a role as a leader of the opposition to the immigration bill, much as he did in the Senate with some success when it last considered an overhaul in 2007. Fellow opponents quickly seized on Heritage’s new study, and supporters of the bill, including Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, disputed it. A similar report by the group in 2007 is credited with helping to kill that overhaul attempt.

The disclosure of the dissertation written by Dr. Richwine, who could not be reached for comment, threatened to undermine Heritage’s push for influence even as the foundation distanced itself from Dr. Richwine’s outside writing.

“This is not a work product of the Heritage Foundation,” Mike Gonzalez, vice president of communications for the organization, wrote in an e-mail statement.

In a blog post, Mr. Gonzalez added: “We welcome a rigorous, fact-based debate on the data, methodology and conclusions of the Heritage study on the cost of amnesty. Instead, some have pointed to a Harvard dissertation written by Dr. Jason Richwine.”

Senators piled on amendments Tuesday evening intended to remake — or in some cases thwart — the legislation. The amendments are the greatest test of the bill so far, with provisions from both Democratic supporters of an immigration overhaul and Republicans critics posing potential obstacles before the bill can move out of committee and onto the Senate floor.

One of the most closely watched amendments came from Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont and chairman of the Judiciary Committee. He offered two separate amendments that would allow American citizens to seek a permanent resident visa, known as a green card, for a same-sex foreign partner.

Under current law, Americans can gain a green card for a foreign spouse in a traditional marriage relatively easily, but cannot apply for a green card for a gay spouse or partner.

The Republican senators in the bipartisan group that proposed the bill, two of whom sit on the committee, have warned repeatedly that any same-sex amendment would be a deal breaker for many Republicans and could sink the overhaul.

Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the ranking Republican on the committee, offered 77 amendments, and Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, offered 49. Mr. Sessions has been an outspoken critic of the bill, which he says would harm American workers, and an aide said two of the senator’s amendments would address some of his concerns by capping the number of legal immigrants and foreign workers at 30 million over 10 years.

Senator Mike Lee, Republican of Utah, offered an amendment that would more than double the number of visas offered to low-skilled workers under the bill, a provision that would upset an already delicate deal between the nation’s leading business and labor communities. That agreement would ultimately cap the number at 200,000 annually; Mr. Lee’s amendment would start the program at 200,000 and increase to 400,000.

Mr. Rubio, a member of the bipartisan group, is not on the committee, but an aide said he was likely to support proposals to strengthen border security, including requiring double-layered fencing along the Southwest border, and to increase background checks for immigrants applying for legal status.

At a private meeting Tuesday, Mr. Rubio told a group of conservatives that he expected any bill that reached President Obama’s desk to be to the right of the current legislation, according to attendees.

Senator Orrin G. Hatch, a Republican of Utah on the committee who is not a sponsor of the bill, offered 24 amendments, many intended to further expand the number of temporary visas, known as H-1Bs, and green cards for highly skilled immigrants in science, technology and engineering. Lawmakers from both parties on the committee will be closely watching those amendments, since Mr. Hatch has not yet declared whether he would support the overall bill and is regarded as a swing vote.

Mr. Hatch “would like for the bill to get to a place where he can support it,” said his spokesman, Matthew Harakal.
243 2013-05-09 That isn’t always the case for other nearby families, whose children left the lemon groves to go to college and seek professional jobs in the cities. Keeping the lemon groves alive is a constant struggle.

“One of our main goals is to prevent the abandonment of the gardens on the coast,” said Salvatore De Riso, a well-known pastry chef and the president of the Consortium for the Protection of the Amalfi Lemon. “So many have been abandoned, and we’re trying to get them back by involving the owners. We’d like to valorize the Amalfi lemon, which is unique in the world.”

Mr. De Riso said that the consortium, which certifies the quality of lemons in products like limoncello to protect them from low-quality imitations, is trying to help local producers raise production.

The consortium is also trying to get state financing to help the boutique producers stay afloat. But that is a vexed issue in Italy, where in past years, although generally not in Amalfi, the misuse of European Union agricultural subsidies has often made it more lucrative for larger farms to let fruit rot on the tree than to pay the costs of harvesting and transporting it.

Although Mr. Aceto helped start the lemon consortium, he no longer wants to be part of it, saying it is pushing small growers like him to produce too much.

Mr. Aceto would also like to sell the lemons himself, and frowns on what he calls “mercenaries,” or wholesalers who buy lemons from small producers and sell them at a markup to larger distributors.

Mr. De Riso disagrees. He said that increasing the quantity of production would help small producers earn more without detracting from the quality. All lemons certified from Amalfi must be of the “sfusato” family, which comes from the Italian word for spindle, because of their pointed ends. These grow only in the microclimate of the Amalfi Coast, where cooling breezes are trapped between steep mountain valleys.

The lemons were first brought to the Amalfi Coast centuries ago on trade routes from the Middle East and were treasured by sailors for warding off scurvy and other ailments at sea.

For the Aceto family, the euro — and the euro crisis — is yet another phase in a long and rich history. Gigino Aceto’s great-grandfather, grandfather and father tended the lemon trees for a local nobleman, when the Italian south had a largely feudal economy. His father was able to buy some land when a local noble family needed an infusion of cash.

Mr. Aceto was born in 1934, the eighth of 13 children; his parents got a special large-family subsidy from Mussolini’s Fascist government. In 1968, he enlarged the plot to about 20 acres with a special 40-year loan from the Italian state at 1 percent interest, part of an agrarian reform aimed at helping farmers buy their own land.

He isn’t nostalgic for the past and still remembers being a child during the war, when the family nearly starved and he and his siblings were sent to gather herbs and anything else edible. “We had relatives in America who sent us packages,” Mr. Aceto recalled. “Now China is taking over. That’s how the times are going.”

Faced with global competition, Mr. Aceto’s son Salvatore is not convinced that the euro is helping small businesses like his. “I’d say no,” he said. “There are lots of positive sides, but the other side of the coin is that we didn’t benefit enough. If we still had the lire, we’d have stayed more competitive as agricultural producers.”

The Aceto lemon groves could be sold for millions of euros for luxury vacation properties, but the family will hear none of it.

“I’m taking care of the patrimony of humanity,” Gigino Aceto said. Planted in a series of stonewalled terraces, the roots of the lemon trees help prevent soil erosion and landslides, a growing problem with the torrential rains of recent years. “The rays of the sun penetrate under the roots, so that the lemon is like a little baby in its cradle,” he said.

“Maybe lemon juice runs in my veins instead of blood,” he added.

After his afternoon nap, Mr. Aceto showed off the family’s smaller plot, high on the hills above the coast. A sweet breeze blew through the lemon grove. The sounds of traffic and water lapping on the shore rose from below. Above were the steep stone walls of the local cemetery. Salvatore Aceto looked up. “Here, even the dead are in paradise,” he said.
244 2013-05-09 Mr. Cheng, a son of Chinese immigrants who was born and raised in Queens and now lives in Brooklyn, said in an interview this week that while he drew from his deep knowledge of the blues to write the novel, he is still bracing himself for criticism that he has somehow gotten the South wrong.

“I don’t have the advantage of being from there, from that region, of that race,” Mr. Cheng said. “It’s tough. But my responsibility is to tell stories, to tell the story I want to tell in the way I want to tell it. And if there are repercussions from that, I’ll just have to face it.”

“Southern Cross the Dog” made its way to publication by being passed from the hands of one influential publishing figure to another. Nathan Englander, one of Mr. Cheng’s writing instructors at Hunter College, gave the first 70 pages to Nicole Aragi, a literary agent who is known for her unerring taste in literary fiction. Ms. Aragi took on Mr. Cheng as a client and sent the manuscript to Daniel Halpern, the publisher of Ecco, who said he read it quickly because Ms. Aragi was the sender.

But the real test came when the book was shown to people like Mr. Howorth and Edward P. Jones, the African-American writer whose accolades include a Pulitzer Prize.

Mr. Jones so admired the book that he supplied a crucial blurb for the back cover. Mr. Howorth said he loved the book and pledged his full support.

“Relieved is not quite the right word,” Mr. Halpern said. “But I was very happy. I knew Richard would tell me what he thought.”

Mr. Cheng is about to find out how his book will be received by the public. He is starting a tour that includes a few of the South’s most respected bookstores, including Square Books in Oxford and Lemuria Books in Jackson, Miss. A question-and-answer session is planned at Parnassus Books in Nashville, the store that the novelist Ann Patchett opened in November 2011. At the end of May, he will appear at the Decatur Arts Festival in Georgia.

Ecco has printed 20,000 copies of the book in hardcover and expects strong sales in e-books, increasingly the format of choice for fiction.

Lisa Newman, a bookseller at Lemuria, said on Tuesday that she was midway through the novel and was questioning how Mr. Cheng could have possibly captured the people and the dialects so accurately.

“The last question as I finish reading ‘Southern Cross the Dog’: Does Bill Cheng have such an extraordinary writing ability as to tap into what is universally human and overcome the limitations of being an outsider?” she wrote in an e-mail. “But all questions aside, I cannot put ‘Southern Cross the Dog’ down and passage after passage of remarkable writing and unforgettable characters will propel me to the end.”

As Mr. Cheng tells it, he never imagined that the novel would make it to publication. He began writing it while studying for his master of fine arts, being taught by Mr. Englander, the author of “What We Talk About When We Talk About Anne Frank”; Peter Carey, the author of “The Chemistry of Tears”; and Colum McCann, who wrote the National Book Award-winning “Let the Great World Spin.”

He decided the story should take place in Mississippi because it was the birthplace of the blues, but didn’t set out to write an explicitly blues novel. “I just looked for the things that show up a lot in the music, images and icons that are prominent in music — the flood, the Devil, the hellhouse,” he said. “The story formed itself around that.”

Mary Grey James, a manager at Parnassus and an avid reader of Southern fiction, said that she believed that Mr. Cheng had “transcended” his own background to write the book.

“Not knowing anything about him I would have sworn it was written by someone from the South,” Ms. James said. “It’s the way a lot of African-American Southerners experienced life back in the ’20s, ’30s and early ’40s. He must have done a ton of research or has read a lot of Faulkner.”
245 2013-05-09 John Tomic, the father and coach of Australian tennis star Bernard Tomic, will not be granted accreditation to this year’s French Open, according to the tournament director Gilbert Ysern.

John Tomic is facing charges of assault in Spain after an alleged attack in Madrid last week on Thomas Drouet, his son’s hitting partner. John Tomic has denied the charges, claiming he delivered a head butt to Drouet’s face as an act of self-defense.

Drouet also has accused John Tomic of striking Bernard Tomic in the face during a practice session in Monaco on April 30. John Tomic has not yet publicly addressed that allegation.

On Tuesday, the ATP, which is also conducting its own investigation, announced that it had barred John Tomic from receiving credentials at its events until further notice. The ATP ban does not apply to the four Grand Slam tournaments, but Ysern said on Wednesday that John Tomic would not be accredited to the French Open, which begins May 26 in Paris.

“No, we are not going to let Mr. Tomic in at Roland Garros this year,” Ysern said in an e-mail message.
246 2013-05-09 ‘'Manchester United has been transformed as a football club under the management of Sir Alex Ferguson,'’ Dan Jones, a partner in the Sports Business Group at Deloitte, said Wednesday. ‘'Financially, the last 26 years have coincided with a wider revolution in English football with massive investment in the game and the growth of the Premier League, particularly driven by domestic and international broadcast deals.'’

The reality is that soccer is more than any business. Its power, which crosses borders and cultures, derives from its essence on the field, and that is where, undoubtedly, Ferguson has been monstrously successful among his peers.

Ferguson, however, did not make Manchester United great. He revived it. He gave it back what Matt Busby, another Scot also from working class roots, achieved between 1945 and 1971 when Busby’s irrepressible spirit rebuilt a club out of the ruins of war, and then rebuilt his team after an airplane crash in Munich in 1958 decimated the best squad he ever built.

That catastrophe, and United’s re-emergence from it, built the legend and the worldwide fame of the club. But toward the end of the Busby years it faded, and no man could turn the club around and re-establish it until Ferguson was appointed the team manager and coach in November 1986.

There are players on his team today who were not born the day that Ferguson, with his fiery temperament, his winning mentality, and his aggressive, attacking style began that revival.

Certainly, the business, now owned by the Glazer Family in Florida is global. Surely, one man is not the whole reason for its global popularity. But without Ferguson, the club’s future resembles the situation in the post-Busby years.

Hence the immediate reaction on the stock market. Hence the statement from the owners when the club first was floated on the exchange last August. ‘'Any successor to our current manager,'’ it warned, ‘’ may not be as successful as our current manager.'’

It is unlikely anyone will ever surpass the length of time Ferguson has managed at one club. But names of possible successors quickly popped up.

One man touted to be the possible next United manager has been José Mourinho, the simmering Portuguese coach who is expected to leave the helm of Real Madrid soon.

Coincidentally, Madrid knocked United out of the Champions League this season.

Mourinho has been viewed as negotiating his way back to Chelsea, his former club. But he made what was widely seen as an audition to be Ferguson’s successor when they met in the Champions League, though questions about Mourinho’s behavior might prevent him from getting the United job.

Bobby Charlton, the former great player of United who remains one of its directors, questioned whether a man who once stuck his finger in the eye of a fellow coach in a sideline argument at Barcelona had the dignity required to be the figurehead of a Manchester United.

If not Mourinho, the speculation points toward David Moyes as another possible successor. He is a fellow Scot, drawn from the same city, Glasgow, where Ferguson learned his values and his work ethic as the son of a trade union official in the Govan shipyard six decades ago.

Moyes shares that tough upbringing, and has shown his ability to manage players in a 10-year tenure at the Everton Football Club. What Moyes lacks, however, is European experience; he has built a competitive team on a strained budget, but it is a team without a trophy during his reign.

Ferguson has seldom missed a day on the training field, much less a night in the competitive arena, whereas a coach his teams accumulated 49 trophies — including 13 seasons as England’s champion but only two, in 1999 and 2008, as the Champions League winner.

Ferguson’s reign makes him the most successful manager and coach — rolled into one — that the sport has ever seen. It is difficult to think of any comparable tenure in sports, politics or business during his time at United.

‘'The biggest challenge?'’ he once said. ‘'Managing change.'’

A man of volatile temperament — sometimes a bully, often a father figure — he built and ruthlessly rebuilt five squads of players over more than a quarter of a century. One player, Ryan Giggs, grew up from a 14-year-old apprentice to a winger who is still running on Ferguson’s first team, through all the triumphs and the rebuilding. Giggs is almost 40 now, and still under Ferguson’s wing.

Ferguson’s style was defined by his giving youth its chance and clinging to experienced players while they still gave him value. But above all, he is a manager driven by a single goal: to win.

Ferguson, knighted in the British custom for outstanding service to his ‘'industry, faces surgery when this season is done.

He may not admit it, but he has just steered a team nowhere near the best squads in his reign to the title he vowed to regain the moment the neighbor, Manchester City, took it from him on goal difference a year ago.

His desire to go out on top was insatiable, but the reality this year is that no English team was good enough to even make it to the quarterfinals of the Champions League. Ferguson knows that Champions League success is the measuring stick in modern soccer.

Whoever replaces him will have to take that challenge on, because United, owned by the Glazers, an American family, is a multibillion-dollar franchise that markets itself around the globe as being among the biggest and the best.

Ferguson’s career was stamped with success even before he moved south from Scotland to Manchester on Nov. 6, 1986. He had galvanized Aberdeen, in the very north of Scotland, to break the Celtic vs. Rangers monopoly of Scottish soccer, and it was the vigor of that team, the attacking style of it, that brought ‘'Fiery Fergie'’ to the attention of United.

The question Manchester had then, and may have about Moyes now, was whether he could manage the egos of some of the world’s highest-paid athletes. Could he persuade players who became millionaires in their teenage years to play as a team, to train as a team, and to go through whatever pain or glory the manager demanded of them as a team?

Ferguson almost failed at the start. He was given something that his successor may not get — time — to build and nurture a squad that stands the test of time.

That is so rare in European club soccer that no one today even comes close to the length of Ferguson’s 27-year stay as a top manager.

The German Bundesliga at the moment is regarded as the pillar of stability in an impatient global scene. Jupp Heynckes will coach Bayern Munich against Borussia Dortmund at Wembley Stadium in London in the all-German Champions League final on May 25.

Heynckes, who is four years younger than Ferguson and has completed 50 years in the professional game, has had 13 top jobs in his coaching career — in Germany, Spain and Portugal — in the same period of time in which Ferguson has moved just once, from Aberdeen to the institution of United.

‘'It is important to leave an organization in the strongest possible shape,'’ Ferguson said Wednesday, ‘'and I believe I have done that.'’

He talked about the balance of youth and experience in the squad, about the training facilities that are second-to-none in the world, about the systems in place for his successor.

What he did not address was the steel required of the next man in his seat. Many years ago, before Ferguson came south to the job, Busby — who had built up United from the end of World War II to the most renowned force in club soccer — remained on the board of directors.

It was always said that Busby’s presence around Old Trafford Stadium — he started managing United in 1945, and finished in 1971 — was an intimidating factor to the managers who tried and failed to pick up his baton.

Ferguson’s successor will have to live with him on the board, and no matter how well-intentioned or how paternal the outgoing giant of his trade will conduct himself in his new role, the new manager will need nerves of steel not to wilt in the shadow.

The bar is set terrifyingly — or inspirationally — high.
247 2013-05-09 This piquant refrigerator pickle tastes even better after a long brine....
248 2013-05-10 12:24 a.m. | Updated &#xa;&#xa;   &#xa;When federal regulators sued the high-flying money manager Philip A. Falcone last summer, they claimed his actions &#x201C;read like the final exam in a graduate school course in how to operate a hedge fund u...
249 2013-05-10 The nation&#x2019;s largest cardiovascular health organization has a new message for Americans: Owning a dog may protect you from heart disease. &#xa;   &#xa;The unusual message was contained in a scientific statement published on Thursday by the ...
250 2013-05-10 More recollections of the late comedian Jonathan Winters....
251 2013-05-10 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. For Friday, selections include a judge dismissing a privacy lawsuit against Delta Air Lines over a smartphone app, a 3-D phone screen that i...
252 2013-05-10 Eight partners at Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz are proposing that company boards consider adopting a bylaw prohibiting shareholder activists from compensating director nominees....
253 2013-05-10 A look at some of the social media dispatches from SALT conference in Las Vegas. The SkyBridge Alternatives Conference brings together more than 1,800 wealthy investors and hedge funds for four days of conferences, concerts and revelry....
254 2013-05-10 A young reader goes on an adventure.
255 2013-05-10 A growing number of art collectors in Belgium — especially those favoring Contemporary works — are finding ways to share their collections with the public....
256 2013-05-10 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
257 2013-05-10 The premiere of a new music video by Orchestral Manoeuvres in the Dark.
258 2013-05-10 In 1999 Dale Zelko, a husband and father from New Hampshire, was part of a NATO operation, flying an F-117A Nighthawk stealth fighter over Serbia. Zoltan Dani, a husband and father from Skorenovac, was a colonel in the Yugoslav Army. He shot down Mr. Zelko’s stealth bomber, becoming a national hero, having proved that there is no such thing as an invisible plane.

“The Second Meeting” is ostensibly the story of how the two men became friends years later, visited each other’s families and set a heartwarming example of how we are all alike and can put down our weapons and live in peace. But their meeting was arranged by the filmmaker, and their encounters reek of false bonhomie.

Mr. Zelko, to put it bluntly, comes off as something of a jerk. He is shown as an Ugly American stereotype: loud, self-involved, inarticulate and inordinately proud of his four seemingly hyperactive children. His wife cannot tell a story without bursting into tears.

Mr. Dani, on the other hand, is the picture of dignity and competence. It takes a while to realize that those contrasting impressions may have been the intent of Zeljko Mirkovic, the young Serbian director and producer. If so, he has achieved that goal but also looks like a self-conscious filmmaker with a lazy editor.

The scene in which the two men visit an aviation museum and see the contents of Mr. Zelko’s plane on display (“Hey, that’s my stuff!”) is intriguing. And much too short.
259 2013-05-10 “The Flower Thief,” directed by Ron Rice, stars Mr. Mead as a bedraggled mystic wandering the North Beach neighborhood of San Francisco with open-mouthed wonder. He carries with him his three prized possessions: a stolen gardenia, an American flag and a teddy bear.

It goes almost without saying that Mr. Mead was playing himself, as Susan Sontag observed in Partisan Review. “The source of his art is the deepest and purest of all: he just gives himself, wholly and without reserve, to some bizarre autistic fantasy,” she wrote. “Nothing is more attractive in a person, but it is extremely rare after the age of 4.”

Warhol explained how “The Flower Thief,” which he had nothing to do with, had happened. “Taylor was in San Francisco in ’56 when the Beat poetry scene got going,” he said. “One day he stood up on a bar and, over the noise all the drunks were making, started screaming some poems he’d written. Ron Rice saw that scene and began following him around, filming him with black-and-white war surplus film stock.”

Warhol became aware of Mr. Mead from his poetry readings in New York in the late 1950s, and they met in the early 1960s. In September 1963, Mr. Mead accompanied Warhol on a cross-country trip to Los Angeles. The entourage filmed scenes for what would become, in 1964, Mr. Mead’s first film for Warhol, “Tarzan and Jane Regained ... Sort Of.”

Mr. Mead played Tarzan, edited the film and handled the sound. On screen, his sarong kept falling off while climbing trees, prompting a critic to say that he really did not want to see any more two-hour films of Mr. Mead’s derrière.

Mr. Mead wrote a letter to The Village Voice saying that after searching “the Archives of the Warhol colossus,” he and Warhol could find no two-hour film of Mr. Mead’s behind. “We are rectifying this undersight,” he said, and Warhol soon made what would become a little-seen cult classic, the title describing in three words precisely what the critic did not want to see (though the coarser Anglo-Saxon term was used instead of the French).

Taylor Mead was born in Grosse Pointe, Mich., on Dec. 31, 1924, to wealthy parents. In junior high school, his nickname was Star. After attending a private high school, Grosse Point Academy — “brainwashing for the bourgeoisie,” he termed the experience — he wandered around the country and held a variety of jobs, including broker at Merrill Lynch. He studied acting at the Pasadena Playhouse in California and the Herbert Berghof Studio.

He came to New York, he said, because he thought it would be easier to be anonymous. He found his way to the thriving poetry scene and was soon being asked to appear in plays. He won an Obie Award in 1963 for his performance in “The General Returns From One Place to Another,” by the poet Frank O’Hara. He began to keep journals of poems and thoughts, which he mimeographed and distributed. He made paintings and other visual art to accompany his poetry.

In 2003 he appeared in the Jim Jarmusch film “Coffee and Cigarettes,” a series of vignettes. Mr. Mead appears for only a few minutes in a scene with the artist and actor Bill Rice, but critics said it struck a poignant note. In the scene, the dreamy-eyed Mr. Mead asks the skeptical Mr. Rice to pretend that their greasy-spoon coffee is fine Champagne.

In 2005 Mr. Mead, who left no immediate survivors, was the subject of a documentary, “Excavating Taylor Mead,” directed by William A. Kirkley. The same year he published a book of poems, “A Simple Country Girl.” One poem declares: “I am a national treasure/If there were such a thing.”
260 2013-05-10 TERRIBLE new forms of infectious disease make headlines, but not at the start. Every pandemic begins small. Early indicators can be subtle and ambiguous. When the Next Big One arrives, spreading across oceans and continents like the sweep of nightfall, causing illness and fear, killing thousands or maybe millions of people, it will be signaled first by quiet, puzzling reports from faraway places — reports to which disease scientists and public health officials, but few of the rest of us, pay close attention. Such reports have been coming in recent months from two countries, and .

You may have seen the news about H7N9, a new strain of avian claiming victims in and other Chinese locales. Influenzas always draw notice, and always deserve it, because of their great potential to catch hold, spread fast, circle the world and kill lots of people. But even if you’ve been tracking that bird-flu story, you may not have noticed the little items about a “novel coronavirus” on the Arabian Peninsula.

This came into view last September, when the Saudi Ministry of Health announced that such a virus — new to science and medicine — had been detected in three patients, two of whom had already died. By the end of the year, a total of nine cases had been confirmed, with five fatalities. As of Thursday, there have been 18 deaths, 33 cases total, including one patient now hospitalized in after a trip to the . Those numbers are tiny by the standards of global pandemics, but here’s one that’s huge: the case fatality rate is 55 percent. The thing seems to be almost as lethal as Ebola.

Coronaviruses are a genus of bugs that cause respiratory and gastrointestinal infections, sometimes mild and sometimes fierce, in humans, other mammals and birds. They became infamous by association in 2003 because the agent for , or SARS, is a coronavirus. That one emerged suddenly in southern China, passed from person to person and from to , then went swiftly onward by airplane to , and elsewhere. Eventually it sickened about 8,000 people, of whom nearly 10 percent died. If not for fast scientific work to identify the virus and rigorous public health measures to contain it, the total case count and death toll could have been much higher.

One authority at the , an expert on nasty viruses, told me that the SARS outbreak was the scariest such episode he’d ever seen. That cautionary experience is one reason this novel coronavirus in the has attracted such concern.
261 2013-05-10 Each pathogen has its own “footprint” (or potential footprint) on our human health and social, political and economic landscapes. Far too often the public — and policy makers and journalists — confuse those infectious diseases that can be life-threatening for a limited number of individuals with those that can cause widespread damage to society as a whole.

A disease in the former category is “flesh-eating strep” (invasive group A streptococcal disease). Approximately 9,000 to 11,500 cases are recognized each year in the United States, and about 1,000 to 1,800 of these patients die. When outbreaks of this type occur in this country, particularly if they affect schools or day-care centers, they generate front-page news and widespread concern.

Conversely, last year worldwide 1.7 million of the 34 million people infected with H.I.V. died from AIDS. There was little front-page news coverage about these cases. Nor was there much coverage last year of the estimated 1.5 million tuberculosis-related deaths, of the 1.1 million young children who died of infectious diarrheal illness, or of the 825,000 deaths from malaria. Infectious diseases like these plague the world but, because they don’t occur in our backyard, they remain relatively invisible to Americans.

In the case of the two latest threats — the H7N9 influenza virus and the new coronavirus — the number of infected people is small, and the infections are occurring thousands of miles away from the United States. Yet we should be seriously concerned about both.

Diseases like H7N9 influenza and the new coronavirus are different from noninfectious causes of serious illness and death — and even most microbial causes of disease. They can kill large numbers of people quickly and simultaneously around the world. The 1918 flu pandemic killed an estimated 50 million people worldwide in less than 18 months. The 2003 SARS pandemic, while more limited, resulted in more than 8,275 cases and 775 deaths.

Why does this suddenly happen? Both animal influenza and coronaviruses normally infect animals, not humans. But when these viruses undergo very specific genetic changes that occur as a result of everyday microbial evolution, we have a whole new ballgame; one that is largely played by their rules and on their schedule. Now a virus that once could infect only animals and maybe very rarely infect humans is readily transmitted by people to other people. You could get infected just by breathing shared air with the airplane passenger next to you, or by standing next to the wrong person in an elevator or even by lying next to your sleeping mate. We call this respiratory transmission.

Consider how quickly the H1N1 influenza virus spread in 2009: within the first month of that pandemic, the virus had infected people in at least 42 countries. The only thing keeping these viruses from becoming pandemic killers is their genetics. With few exceptions, all the current human H7N9 and coronavirus cases represent sporadic animal-to-human transmission. But if these viruses continue to spread in their respective animal reservoirs, repeated transmissions of the viruses to humans may lead to the genetic changes that will make either virus readily transmitted by humans to humans. Add in the fact that humans have little to no natural immunity to these viruses, and we could have the next pandemic.

Our public health tools to fight these viruses are limited. We have no vaccines or effective drugs readily available to stop or treat the new coronavirus in the Middle East. And while we have influenza vaccines, my colleagues and I have detailed in an article this week in the Journal of the American Medical Association why we most likely will have limited global impact on an H7N9 pandemic with our current outdated influenza vaccine technology.

In short, we won’t be saved by vaccines if a pandemic emerges from these two new threats. At best, in the case of H7N9, we can only hope that vaccines can help somewhat.

The toll is economic, not just human. Studies have shown that a severe global pandemic, caused by viruses like influenza or coronavirus, could bring the global economy, which is ever reliant on global communications and transportation networks, to its knees. When people are too sick or too afraid to work, borders are closed and global supply chains break, and trade falls. Over months, the economic costs could send the world into recession.

Are either H7N9 or coronavirus pandemics inevitable? We don’t know. But each time one of these viruses infects a human or even another mammal, it’s one more throw at the genetic roulette table.

To reduce the odds of a pandemic, China and the Middle Eastern countries where these viruses are now circulating in animals must do everything they can to identify the animal sources and use every tool they have to eliminate the spreading of the disease. To cull millions of apparently healthy chickens or other domestic animals is not easy, but it is essential.

The world as whole must invest in a new generation of effective influenza and coronavirus vaccines. They are the ultimate insurance policy against similar future emerging viruses. These viruses may seem far away, but tomorrow they could be at America’s doorstep.
262 2013-05-10 As the authorities continue to investigate the cause of the West explosion, and state and federal lawmakers discuss whether new regulations and greater oversight are needed, stockpiles of chemicals stored in communities across the state are the subject of intense concern.

A patchwork of regulations, generated by municipal, state and federal authorities, has led to almost exclusively local control over disaster preparation. “If I have a plant near my house, do I know that they have a plan?” said State Representative Joe Pickett, Democrat of El Paso, the chairman of the House Homeland Security and Public Safety Committee. “The public needs to know who to go to and who to ask for a plan, so it brings attention to these facilities.”

Mr. Carman said: “It’s just ludicrous. I think it’s a pattern of lax regulation in Texas, and it’s surprising, given the number of industrial plants.”

At the federal level, safety and accident prevention falls to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, which according to an agency fact sheet oversees more than seven million workplaces, and last inspected the West depot in 1985. The Environmental Protection Agency requires companies to report their methods of handling certain dangerous chemicals, but not ammonium nitrate. And the Department of Homeland Security keeps track of facilities that hold ammonium nitrate, but the agency did not know about the West facility, which had not reported to it. According to a department spokesman, Peter Boogaard, the agency is currently investigating whether the West facility should have submitted documentation.

At the state level, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality focuses on pollution and air quality, not accident prevention. The Office of the State Chemist checks the composition of feed and fertilizer for consumers, and whether explosives are behind fences and locked doors. The primary responsibility for tracking potentially dangerous chemicals in Texas falls to the Department of State Health Services, but Commissioner David L. Lakey told lawmakers at a hearing this month that the agency did “not have authority related to the regulation of these chemicals.” Its role is as a data depository, Dr. Lakey said, suggesting that regulations are the responsibility of local officials in the form of fire and safety codes.

Those local officials are also responsible for preparing communities for disaster prevention, Steve McCraw, the director of the state’s Department of Public Safety, testified at the same hearing. “There’s no orchestrated, overarching effort to educate people about what’s in their areas,” he said. “It’s local level, not state down.”

Mr. McCraw’s department oversees a statewide network of 270 local emergency-planning committees, which operate differently in every county, and bring together public officials and industry leaders to develop safety plans. “The best experts are on the ground,” said W. Nim Kidd of the public safety department.

Amarillo knows the importance of local involvement in disaster planning firsthand. High on the Texas plains, the city is home to several heavy industry and petrochemical facilities — including the largest repository of ammonium nitrate in the state — and has adapted to the risk. The city’s fire department includes a hazmat team, which drills to prepare for specific threats. Sonja Gross, a community relations coordinator for the city, said the regional planning committee met quarterly to work on disaster preparation and prevention.

A fertilizer depot in the northeast quadrant of the city, owned by the multinational company Gavilon, reported an average daily stockpile of more than 2.1 million pounds of a liquid ammonium-nitrate mixture in 2012.

The fertilizer at the Gavilon facility is stored as a liquid with the organic chemical urea, which experts say ordinarily poses little combustion risk. But while the solution is much safer than ammonium nitrate stored in a powder form, explosions at similar facilities — as a consequence of spills or misused equipment — are not unheard of. In Amarillo, as in New Braunfels, many who live near the fertilizer facility say they had no idea about the chemical stockpile next door and are concerned, even if the risks were comparatively low.

“They should have let us know” in some way, said Judy Watson, manager of the Red Rock Saloon, a bar down the street from the plant. “A lot of people live here. A lot of homeless people sleep here, too.”

An appreciation for the benefits and hazards of industry may explain why some, including State Senator Kel Seliger, Republican of Amarillo, remain reluctant simply to call for more oversight of industrial facilities.

“In our part of the state, because it’s been very heavy in oil and gas production and plastics and fertilizers,” Mr. Seliger said, “a lot of lessons have been learned” on the importance of setting and enforcing regulations to ensure safe practices, he said.

In New Braunfels, home of Buckley Powder, Lynn Lindsay, the local emergency-management coordinator, said Comal County’s committee had little financing and did not meet regularly. “We are actively working to rectify the situation,” Mr. Lindsay said. “We have active relationships with first responders, but it’s a matter of tying it all together.”

Mr. Lindsay said New Braunfels residents had expressed more concerns since the West explosion, and he is trying to develop a database of chemicals in facilities across the county so first responders know what to do in case of an emergency.

He said the Legislature could consider creating standards for reporting or directing an agency to list best practices for first responders.

State Senator Donna Campbell, Republican of New Braunfels, said there was “a point at which you can overregulate” companies that store dangerous chemicals and that many large manufacturing companies had their own emergency preparation plans.

“I think we’re doing a good job,” she said. “Just periodically something happens that’s not predictable.”
263 2013-05-10 As many as 3,000 African Union peacekeepers have been killed in Somalia in recent years trying to bring stability, the United Nations deputy secretary general, Jan Eliasson, said Thursday. The 17,700-strong African Union force began deploying to Somalia in 2007 and has helped push out the Shabab, an Islamist militant group, from the capital and other urban centers, though the group can still conduct major attacks.
264 2013-05-10 Most of their books were published by Scholastic; though Mr. McKissack was not always listed as an author, the couple always said that they were a team and accepted numerous awards jointly, including the Regina Medal from the Catholic Library Association. (Mrs. McKissack has written many award-winning works of fiction for children under her own name, including “The Dark-Thirty: Southern Tales of the Supernatural.”)

Among the couple’s better-known titles are “Christmas in the Big House, Christmas in the Quarters,” which won the Coretta Scott King Author Award in 1995; “Sojourner Truth: Ain’t I a Woman?”; “Black Hands, White Sails: The Story of African-American Whalers”; and “Days of Jubilee: The End of Slavery in the United States.”

Fredrick Lemuel McKissack was born on Aug. 12, 1939, in Nashville. His father, Lewis, and his grandfather, Moses III, were both architects. A great-great-grandfather was a member of the Ashanti tribe of West Africa who was brought to North Carolina as a slave, took the name Moses McKissack and became a master builder early in the 19th century.

Moses III and his brother Calvin formed McKissack & McKissack, widely regarded as the oldest African-American-owned architectural and construction firm in the United States. The firm’s New York office is involved in the Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn, the transportation hub at the World Trade Center site and the expansion of Columbia University.

Fredrick McKissack joined the Marines after high school, then returned and graduated with a degree in civil engineering from Tennessee State University, where he participated in lunch-counter sit-ins to protest segregation. He moved to St. Louis after receiving a job with the Army Corps of Engineers and later started his own construction company there.

In addition to his wife, the former Patricia Leanna Carwell, whom he married in 1964, his survivors include their three sons, Fredrick Jr., Robert and John; three brothers, Bill, Joel and Moses; and five grandchildren.

The McKissacks’ book writing began during a rocky time in both their working lives. Mr. McKissack’s building business was struggling, and Mrs. McKissack was unhappy in her editing career. At a favorite spot near a waterfall in Forest Park in St. Louis one day, they had an emotional conversation.

“He said to me, ‘If you could do anything in your life that you wanted to do, what would you do?’ ” Mrs. McKissack recalled on Wednesday. “I said, ‘I’d like to write a children’s book, to tell you the truth.’ He said, ‘Let’s go do that, then, and I’ll help you.’ ”

Mr. McKissack soon sold his business and Mrs. McKissack eventually quit her job.

“For three or four years we thought, ‘We’re going under — what have we done?’ ” she said. “Then it all turned and the books started selling.”

While Mrs. McKissack wrote, her husband immersed himself in research.

“He was gone most of the time,” she said. “He was always into an interview trying to scrounge out some little piece of information. If I wrote, ‘Sometime in 1800,’ he wanted to get the date, the time. If he could get the weather report for that day, he would, so that I could write, ‘On a snowy day in 18 ... .’ ”
265 2013-05-10 MADRID — A group of investors plans to file an unusual lawsuit against the Bank of Spain, accusing the central bank of failing to warn investors of the problems at Bankia, a giant mortgage lender whose downfall helped set off a banking crisis that obliged Spain to seek a bailout from Europe.

The group, estimated to be 400 investors, will seek about 200 million euros, or $260 million, in compensation from the bank and the country’s other supervisory authorities for losses incurred when Bankia shares they had bought for 3.75 euros a share in 2011 devolved into a penny stock.

In a complaint sent to the Bank of Spain this week, Cremades & Calvo-Sotelo, the Spanish law firm representing the disgruntled investors, accused the central bank and other authorities of failing to adequately oversee Bankia, from its formation to its listing in July 2011, and then its nationalization last May.

“The measures used to contain the deterioration of Bankia in the context of a severe economic recession provoked exactly the opposite,” according to the complaint, which the law firm used to inform the parties that a suit would be filed. “The entire process of restructuring and intervening in Bankia demonstrates a behavior on the part of the financial authorities that was fully contrary to the standards of prudential regulation.”

Spanish regulators almost entirely erased the already heavily reduced value of Bankia’s equity in March, part of a cleanup that required the country to use 18 billion of its 100 billion euro European bailout in order to keep the bank afloat. Over all, Spain has used 41 billion euros of its bailout to rescue its banks.

The lawsuit against the Bank of Spain — the first of its kind against the country’s central bank — would be extended to Spain’s Economics Ministry as well as its stock market regulator, said Javier Cremades, the chairman of the law firm.
266 2013-05-10 Such statistics are not persuasive by themselves, and the professors know it. Many factors obviously influence unemployment rates in any given state. North Dakota’s current boom stems from energy deposits, which would have been there no matter who owned the land.

But they say that the statistics show those patterns no matter how much they control for other variables and that the same picture emerges if they look at employment growth rather than unemployment rates. They say that the pattern existed before the crash of the housing market that began in 2007 and that the statistics are not dependent on including the more recent period.

If that is true, why have few noticed it before? “The time lags are long,” they write, up to five years before a rise in homeownership hurts an area’s unemployment rate. “That gradualness may explain why these important patterns are so little known.”

Nonetheless, the idea is not new. Professor Oswald pointed to some of the data as far back as 1996, saying that in Europe as well as the United States a higher proportion of homeownership seemed to be associated with a higher level of unemployment. But other researchers soon concluded that the evidence did not support the thesis that homeowners were more likely to be unemployed than renters, and the correlation was largely ignored.

If the correlation is real, what could be the cause? The professors say they believe that high homeownership in an area leads to people staying put and commuting farther and farther to jobs, creating cost and congestion for companies and other workers. They speculate that the role of zoning may be important, as communities dominated by homeowners resort to “not in my backyard” efforts that block new businesses that could create jobs. Perhaps the energy sector would be less freewheeling in North Dakota if there were more homeowners.

Homeownership, in economists’ jargon, creates “negative externalities” for the labor market.

In Finland, there was something of a test of the thesis, the professors say. Finland changed its housing laws in the 1990s in ways that discouraged homeownership, putting the changes into effect at different times in different regions. “While homeowners are less likely to experience unemployment,” concluded Jani-Petri Laamanen, an economist at the University of Tampere who analyzed the Finnish housing market, “an increase in the rate of homeownership causes regional unemployment to rise.”

Until the credit crisis, homeownership was generally viewed in the United States as an unquestionably good thing. President George W. Bush, like his predecessors, boasted of a rising homeownership rate in his administration. He summarized the consensus in 2005 when he proclaimed June to be “National Homeownership Month.”

“The spread of ownership and opportunity helps give our citizens a vital stake in the future of America and the chance to realize the great promise of our country,” he wrote. “A home provides children with a safe environment in which to grow and learn. A home is also a tangible asset that provides owners with borrowing power and allows our citizens to build wealth that they can pass on to their children and grandchildren.”

Homeownership, the president concluded, is “a bedrock of the American economy, helping to increase jobs, boost demand for goods and services, and build prosperity.”

The benefits of homeownership were said to go far beyond the obvious ones. A document distributed by the National Association of Realtors pointed to positive externalities. Homeowners’ children were more likely to do well in school and less likely to drop out. They were more likely to be well behaved. Teenage pregnancy rates were lower, and the children of lower-income homeowners were less likely to wind up on welfare as adults than were children of similar renters.

The credit crisis damaged that consensus as millions of homeowners lost their homes. Rather than creating wealth, homes had enabled people to gain cash by refinancing mortgages and live beyond their means until the crisis sent them into bankruptcy. The percentage of Americans owning their own homes is now the lowest since 1995.

But the good reputation of homeownership largely survived. Lawrence Summers, the Harvard economist and former Treasury secretary, complained in a Washington Post article earlier this year that not enough mortgage loans were being made. “The clearest evidence is the growing number of lower- and middle-income families paying rents to the private equity firms that own their homes at rates far above what a mortgage would cost,” he said, taking it for granted that owning a home was a good idea.

The professors’ paper could turn out to have appeared at a particularly inappropriate time for the interests that have long promoted homeownership and reaped bountiful subsidies for it. With the federal budget under pressure, reducing the tax benefits for homeownership might be easier if the halo around homeownership were to sag.

There have been proposals thrown around to limit those tax advantages by limiting or even eliminating the deductibility of mortgage interest. Renters, after all, receive no such deduction.

“The mortgage interest deduction is one of the largest tax subsidies in the Internal Revenue Code,” Eric J. Toder, the co-director of the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center, noted in Congressional testimony last month. “Achieving a revenue-neutral tax reform that reduces marginal tax rates significantly would be difficult or impossible to achieve without cutting back the mortgage interest deduction or some other equally popular and widely used provisions.”

There is no political argument that is more potent now than one that says jobs will be created by whatever is proposed. That claim was used last year to pass a bill making it far easier to raise capital from investors despite warnings that it also made investment fraud more likely. Imagine what might happen if politicians came to believe that encouraging homeownership was reducing employment.
267 2013-05-10 Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, accused Republicans of using procedural roadblocks and stall tactics to deny confirmation to qualified nominees.

“This type of blanket, partisan obstruction used to be unheard-of,” Mr. Reid said on the Senate floor. “Now it has become an unacceptable pattern.”

He vowed that the Senate would have an opportunity to vote on the nominations of Mr. Perez and Ms. McCarthy.

Senator Barbara Boxer, the California Democrat who leads the environment panel, said that Ms. McCarthy was one of the most qualified nominees ever named to lead the E.P.A. Ms. McCarthy is currently head of the agency’s office of air and radiation, a post to which she won easy Senate confirmation in 2009. She previously served as a top environmental regulator in Connecticut and Massachusetts, working for Democratic and Republican governors.

“Gina McCarthy deserves a vote,” said Ms. Boxer, visibly angry. “I have delayed a vote for three weeks. I was assured by Senator Vitter that once he received answers to 1,000 questions — a record-breaking number — they would allow us to move forward with the vote.”

Ms. Boxer and other committee Democrats noted that Republican members had submitted 1,079 questions to Ms. McCarthy, compared with 157 total questions for Mr. Obama’s first E.P.A. administrator, Lisa P. Jackson, and 305 for Michael O. Leavitt, who served in the post under President George W. Bush.

Democrats boycotted a vote on Mr. Leavitt’s nomination in October 2003, saying he had failed to adequately answer their questions on environmental policy. The move forced a two-week delay in his confirmation.

Mr. Vitter, in a letter to Ms. Boxer and at a news conference Thursday, said that Republicans were not seeking to obstruct the nomination or harass the nominee.

“These requests are all about openness and transparency and things required by law,” Mr. Vitter told reporters. “We’re not asking the Obama administration to walk away from their views on carbon or anything else.”

He said that the E.P.A. had been unresponsive to Freedom of Information Act requests, that it had failed to provide scientific data supporting regulations and that top officials had used aliases in e-mail addresses, a practice now under review by the agency’s inspector general.

Ms. Boxer said she intended to press for a vote on Ms. McCarthy, which she can do if all 10 Democratic members of the committee appear in person. Senator Max Baucus of Montana was at another hearing, and did not attend Thursday’s meeting, nor did Senator Frank R. Lautenberg of New Jersey, who has been largely absent from the Senate in recent weeks because of health concerns.

“It was not my intention to vote this out with just Democrats,” Ms. Boxer said. “I am asking my Republican colleagues to come home, come back to your responsibility. If you want to be here and vote no, be here and vote no. That is your prerogative. But vote.”
268 2013-05-10 Although the Missonis designed as a couple, Mr. Missoni, known as Tai, was the technician, plotting patterns that were inspired by Guatemalan, Aztec and Incan textiles or Abstract, Impressionist and Art Deco paintings. He designed on graph paper, mapping out shapes with startling combinations: primary colors that did battle with earth tones, and polka dots that chased whirling stripes through kaleidoscopic prisms. Mr. Missoni once wrote that he created a chromatic harmony by adding a third color to two clashing ones.

“Color?” he wrote. “What can I say? I like comparing color to music: Only seven notes and yet innumerable melodies have been composed with those seven notes. How many basic colors are there? I don’t remember exactly, seven perhaps, like the notes of the scale, but how many tones or shades does each color have? An infinite number, just as always endless are the hues and nuances composing a work of art.”

Ottavio Missoni was born on Feb. 11, 1921, in Dubrovnik, in what is now Croatia. His father, Vittorio, was an Italian sea captain then stationed on the Dalmatian Coast; his mother, Teresa de Vidovich, was an Austrian countess.

Athletic, handsome and over six feet tall, the young Mr. Missoni was on his way to becoming an international track star — at 18 he was a student world champion in Vienna — when World War II took him to Egypt. As an infantryman in the Italian Army, he took part in the Axis forces’ desert campaign and was captured at El Alamein. After four years in a British prison camp, he was released in 1946 and returned to Italy, where he parlayed his love of track and field competitions into a business, joining a friend, Giorgio Oberweger, in making wool athletic suits.

In 1948, Mr. Missoni qualified to compete in the 400-meter hurdle race at the London Olympics and placed sixth in the event. He also designed his team’s uniforms. It was during that London sojourn that he was introduced to Rosita Jelmini, a 16-year-old convent student from Golasecca, Italy, who was there to study English. He agreed to meet her under the Cupid statue in Piccadilly Circus. They married five years later.

The Jelmini family had a business making shawls and embroidery, and their knowledge of knitting machines helped enable the young couple to start their own business, in 1953, in the basement of their home in Gallarate, about 40 miles northwest of Milan.

At first they made clothes for department stores to sell under the stores’ own labels, but in 1958 they began showing collections under the Missoni name. They were quickly recognized for their unusual presentations; one was an aquatic fashion show set at a pool featuring blowup plastic armchairs and floating furniture.

Their big break came in the early 1960s, when they began making sweaters and dresses using the same machines that had been intended to make shawls and bedspreads. The machines, which created a streaky, space-dyed effect, produced sumptuous, astonishingly lightweight knits. The knits became a Missoni hallmark.

“We try to find superior materials and new ways to use old materials,” Mr. Missoni said in 1971. “But I think our great asset is our simplicity of line. We make it possible for women to be dressed in fashion and still dress very simply.”

As the business expanded, acquiring licenses for fragrances and a home collection, the Missonis constructed a stunning factory about 15 miles from Gallarate in Sumirago, known for its spectacular views of the Alps at sunset. They built a house next door for their three children, Vittorio, Luca and Angela, all of whom have worked for the family business, along with many of their children. Angela Missoni became the company’s designer, and her daughter Margherita appears in its fragrance advertisements.

Besides Margherita, Mr. Missoni’s survivors include his wife, Luca and Angela Missoni and several other grandchildren.

Vittorio Missoni, who was 58 at the time, was in charge of the company’s business operations when his plane went down on Jan. 4 while he was vacationing. His companion, Maurizia Castiglioni, and two other Italians were also onboard.

Since the late 1990s, when Ottavio and Rosita Missoni handed over control of the business to their children, the company has expanded into a lifestyle brand with furniture, fragrances and hotels, as well a collaboration with Target in 2011 that broke many store records.

While they preferred to live and work in the countryside, the Missonis played an important — though somewhat accidental — role in the development of the industrial city of Milan as an international fashion capital.

In 1967, they had been invited to present their collection at a prestigious trade fair at the Pitti Palace in Florence, where, minutes before the show, Mrs. Missoni asked all the models to remove their bras because they were visible beneath the thin layers of knits. On the runway, however, the harsh spotlights made the knits nearly transparent, causing both a scandal (the Missonis were banned from the venue) and a sensation (the fashion cognoscenti eagerly followed them back to Milan, which was just then beginning to stage its own semiannual fashion weeks).

“ ‘What do they think, that Pitti is the Crazy Horse?’ wrote one disgusted journalist at the time,” Vittorio Missoni said during a 2004 retrospective. “Of course, then everyone wanted to see the brand.”
269 2013-05-10 In this new world of fewer airlines and less capacity, airline executives hope to achieve a level of stability that has eluded them since the federal government deregulated air travel in 1978. While Delta’s merger is complete, more work remains on United Airlines’ merger with Continental Airlines and Southwest Airlines’ tie-up with AirTran. American Airlines and US Airways, which announced in February that they would merge, are just starting the process. But most have begun putting Wi-Fi and individual televisions aboard their planes, installing more comfortable seats for business passengers and investing in mobile technology that gives passengers more control over their travel plans.

Not all the changes have been welcomed by travelers. Airlines charge more fees than ever, requiring passengers to pay for services that were once free, including checking bags or booking seats with more legroom. These fees are also rising and account for a bigger share of the airlines’ revenues. In the latest of these, United increased its ticket-change fee to $200 from $150, a move that was matched by most airlines this month.

Airline executives argue that the industry needs to be profitable for service to improve. Fares have risen in recent years, but they remain lower than they were in the 1990s when adjusted for inflation.

Delta, which left its 19-month bankruptcy in 2007, has also been financially conservative, reducing capital expenses and using cash to cut debt. The carrier posted a net profit of $1.6 billion last year, up 30 percent from the previous year, giving it four years of rising profits despite high fuel costs.

The company said on Wednesday that it would start to pay a quarterly dividend of 6 cents a share and buy back $500 million of its shares in the next three years.

The airline also said it would continue to reduce its debt in the next three years, to $7 billion from $17 billion in 2009. In the next five years, it also plans to spend $2 billion to $2.5 billion a year on its fleet, airports and technology.

Paying a dividend is rare in an industry with losses of $60 billion in the last decade, although there have been exceptions. Southwest Airlines now pays a quarterly dividend of one penny a share, while Alaska Airlines and Allegiant Air buy back their own shares.

Delta’s shares have gained more than 60 percent in the last 12 months, outpacing United but trailing Southwest. On Thursday, they closed at $17.70.

Hunter Keay, an airline analyst with Wolfe Trahan, said investors were looking at the airline industry with more interest since airlines merged and cut their combined capacity substantially.

“Delta is clearly establishing itself in a leadership role in terms of cash generation, returning cash to shareholders and profit margins,” Mr. Keay said.

At Kennedy, Delta will move most of its flights to Terminal 4, where it is completing an extension. There will be more gates and security lanes, a large lounge for frequent fliers and an outdoor observation deck. The doughnut-shaped Terminal 3, which has a leaky roof and plastic buckets that collect rainwater, will be torn down.

The Kennedy expansion came after a complex deal that Delta engineered in 2011 to expand capacity at La Guardia Airport in New York by swapping takeoff and landing rights there with US Airways for some of its own slots at Washington’s Reagan National Airport. Delta now has nearly half of all departures at La Guardia, where daily capacity is capped.

Delta is also taking the offensive at London’s Heathrow Airport, another congested airport with limited capacity. In December, Delta spent $360 million to buy a 49 percent stake in Virgin Atlantic. The partnership with Virgin will expand Delta’s daily flights to Heathrow to 23 from nine and increase its market share between New York and London — the world’s top business route — to 37 percent from 10 percent.

Delta surprised analysts last year, though, when it acquired the Trainer oil refinery in Pennsylvania to provide more steady prices for its jet fuel supplies.

Operating a refinery has proved tricky. Hurricane Sandy disrupted supplies and its gasoline production unit, forcing a temporary shutdown. Delta took a $22 million loss on the plant in the first quarter. Still, executives remain optimistic about the refinery, on which Delta has so far spent $250 million. By contrast, the company’s fuel bill averages about $12 billion a year.

The investment, however, is based on the notion that oil prices are unlikely to fall much in the future. If that happened, Delta could pay more for its jet fuel than its competitors, analysts said.

The company has also remodeled its fleet substantially in recent years, shedding a large number of its 474 smaller, 50-seat airplanes, which have become expensive to fly because of high fuel prices.

Delta, replicating a strategy used at Northwest, has bought a large number of secondhand planes at a substantial discount. Delta thinks it can save money in the long run because the planes cost far less than new ones. Passengers are not likely to see a difference: the planes will get a thorough mechanical check while the cabins are entirely refurbished.

Delta also spent $140 million over two years to develop a new Web site, which it unveiled last year. The site allows the airline to sell more services to passengers, including upgrades to premium seats, or booking hotel rooms or cars. At a conference last year, one executive compared the company’s aims to something Amazon has on its Web site — the ability to bundle offers or suggest products based on a passenger’s history and preferences.

“We had to go through this dark period of elimination of the weaker carriers that was perhaps necessary,” said Glen W. Hauenstein, Delta’s head of network planning and revenue management. “And you’ll find in the next few years an industry that is healthier and that is going through a bit of a renaissance.”
270 2013-05-10 The lower prices — $4.50 for Merck’s Gardasil vaccine and $4.60 for GlaxoSmithKline’s Cervarix — were negotiated through the GAVI Alliance, which was created in 1999 with a grant from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation to deliver more vaccines to the world’s poor.

The low price will initially apply to a few million doses for demonstration projects in Kenya, Ghana, Laos, Madagascar and elsewhere, but Dr. Seth Berkley, the alliance’s chief executive, said he hoped that by 2020, 30 million girls in 40 countries would get the vaccine at that price or less.

The vaccines must be kept refrigerated, and three doses are normally given over six months — requirements that add to the difficulty of deploying them in poor countries.

The vaccines cost about $130 a dose in the United States. The lowest price that any other agency or government has negotiated, Dr. Berkley said, is the $13 paid by the Pan American Health Organization, which has a bulk rate for Latin American countries.

Since Latin America includes a mix of poor and middle-income countries, manufacturers do not offer rock-bottom prices there, he said. The alliance subsidizes vaccine costs for the poorest nations in Africa, Asia and elsewhere, with the subsidies shrinking as the nations get richer.

The vaccines protect against the strains of human papillomavirus, or HPV, that cause 70 percent of cervical cancers. Merck’s also prevents genital warts, caused by related viral strains.

Gardasil and Cervarix, given to girls as young as 9, have caused controversy in the United States, where many parents fear side effects and worry that girls will see the vaccines as condoning sex at a young age. The vast majority of girls in the United States have not been inoculated.

In Australia, where the vaccines have been readily accepted, a recent study found a striking drop in cervical abnormalities, which are cancer precursors, among young women. In the five years after the vaccine was introduced there, cases of warts dropped by 93 percent among women and girls under age 21.

Despite the excitement among global health agencies, the charity Doctors Without Borders called the news “disappointing,” arguing that the prices should be even lower. “Why are the pharmaceutical companies still making profits off the backs of the poorest countries?” asked Kate Elder, a vaccines policy specialist at the charity.

HPV vaccines were developed with taxpayer money, largely from the National Institutes of Health, she said, and Glaxo and Merck have already reaped billions in profits from theirs.

Measles vaccines, invented 50 years ago, cost as little as 25 cents to produce. Ms. Elder said she believed HPV vaccines could be made for as little as $1 a dose. She acknowledged, however, that her only evidence of that was an unofficial estimate by Pan American Health Organization experts.

A spokeswoman for the organization declined to discuss its assessment of manufacturing costs because its own price negotiations are continuing.

Dr. Julie Gerberding, a former director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention who is president of Merck’s vaccine division, said $4.50 was Merck’s manufacturing cost, with no previous research, marketing or other costs built in.

“The price is what we calculate to be our cost of goods — we could be off by a few cents but not more,” she said. “As we expand volumes, the cost per unit can go down. Our intent is to sell it to GAVI at a price that does not bring profit to Merck.”

Glaxo declined on Wednesday to disclose its manufacturing costs, but noted that it had always been in first place on the Access to Medicines index, which was introduced in 2008 to measure how well pharmaceutical companies get their goods to the poor. A company representative said it would not make a profit on the vaccine at the new price.

Dr. Peter J. Hotez, president of the Sabin Vaccine Institute, said the vaccine should cost more to make than, for example, measles vaccine because it contains “viruslike particles” made through recombinant DNA technology rather than a virus simply grown in cells and then killed. Also, it protects against several HPV strains, while there is only one measles strain.

Dr. Berkley described the new prices as a ceiling, and said he expected them to go down as millions more doses were ordered and as rival vaccine makers from lower-cost countries like India and China entered the field. Other companies, including the Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine maker, are developing papillomavirus vaccines, but only the Glaxo and Merck vaccines now have approval from the World Health Organization.

The alliance, Dr. Berkley said, has already negotiated sharp price drops for the pentavalent vaccine, which protects against diphtheria, tetanus, whooping cough, hepatitis B and Haemophilus influenzae B.

That shot costs about $30 in wealthy countries, and the alliance first started buying it at $3.50. “Now we’ve got it down to $1.19,” he said.
271 2013-05-10 The British economy narrowly avoided falling back into a recession for a third time in five years at the beginning of this year. The 0.3 percent growth it recorded in the first three months of this year was hardly a sign of a robust recovery, but it allowed George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer, to dispel critics of his austerity measures, who had argued that spending cuts and tax increases would pull Britain back into a recession.

While still in decline, the manufacturing and construction industries shrank less than some economists had expected in April and the services sector also strengthened last month. Economic confidence is improving and house prices increased to the highest level in almost three years in April, according to Halifax, a mortgage lender.

Under pressure to show his austerity program was indeed repairing the British economy by reducing the budget deficit without choking off growth, Mr. Osborne in March gave the Bank of England more flexibility in supporting the economy without the need to lower inflation in the short term.

Consumer price inflation is at 2.8 percent, above the Bank of England’s 2 percent target. Prices have been climbing faster in Britain than in the euro zone or the United States, squeezing households as salaries remain broadly unchanged.

The European Central Bank cut its benchmark interest rate to a record low of 0.5 percent from 0.75 percent last week. The move was widely expected and was seen as mostly symbolic, to show that the E.C.B. president, Mario Draghi, was willing to act to bolster the euro zone as recession threatened to engulf countries that were previously spared, like Germany.

The troubles in the euro zone have been weighing on Britain, which is a member of the European Union but not part of the euro zone. The region is Britain’s largest single export market. Mr. Osborne repeatedly pointed to weak demand for goods and services from the euro zone as a reason for the slow recovery of the British economy.

Mr. Knightley is among those economists who expect the arrival of Mr. Carney at the helm of the Bank of England, in two months, to bring some change there.

Mr. Carney, now the governor of the Bank of Canada, might be more specific about what to expect from interest rates in the future, Mr. Knightley said. Few economists expect interest rates to increase before the end of next year.
272 2013-05-10 It remained unclear if Mr. Gilani himself was shot. Some witnesses told reporters that his clothes were bloodstained as he was dragged by the kidnappers into their vehicle.

Two of Mr. Gilani’s brothers rushed to the scene. Ali Musa Gilani, who is running for a seat in Parliament against former Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi, warned that unless his brother was freed by the evening, he would not allow voting to be held in his election district.

Sobbing, Ali Musa Gilani said, “I want my brother back.”

Abdul Qadir Gilani, the eldest brother, who is also running for a seat in Parliament, criticized a decision by the country’s election commission and Supreme Court to withdraw security assistance for candidates.

“We were not allowed to keep security guards,” he said in an interview with private television networks. “The result is in front of you.”

The men’s father, Yousaf Raza Gilani, urged party workers in the country to continue with their campaigns.

“Our protest will continue,” Mr. Gilani said, speaking to reporters in Multan. “Those who want to disrupt the elections can be behind the kidnapping,” he said, in an oblique reference to the Taliban.

Thursday was the last day of campaigning for the election — a day longer than was widely believed at the start because of a misunderstanding over whether a 48-hour blackout period before the vote started from when polls were to open or from when they would close.

Attacks by militants during the election season have hobbled the ability of several parties to effectively campaign. The Awami National Party, which had earlier governed the restive Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa Province, has suffered the most violence.

The security threats forced leaders of the Pakistan People’s Party to remain low key and abstain from most public appearances. Bilawal Bhutto Zardari, chairman of the Pakistan People’s Party, has not appeared at any major public gathering, instead using video messages to speak to his supporters.

“The kidnapping is likely to demoralize the Pakistan People’s Party leadership and supporters alike,” Raza Rumi, a political analyst, said in an interview.

“Thus far, they had adopted the strategy of minimum risk to the top leadership,” he said, “but now the family of the former prime minister has been targeted. This does not augur well for the democratic transition.

“It also reflects that lawlessness and nonstate actors are gaining more and more power and voice in Pakistan.”
273 2013-05-11 The Knicks are unsure if guard J.R. Smith will be able to play in Game 3 of the Eastern Conference semifinals against the Indiana Pacers on Saturday night after Smith missed a shootaround with an undisclosed illness....
274 2013-05-11 Cuba challenges Australia’s tobacco rules, American apparel retailers apply some “fair trade” practices and China shows more signs of a slowdown....
275 2013-05-11 A selection of comments from readers in Pakistan on what Saturday’s elections mean to them....
276 2013-05-11 David Rudisha, the world and Olympic champion, cruised to victory in the 800 meters at the season-opening Diamond League meet in Doha, Qatar. Justin Gatlin had the second-fastest time of the year (9.97) to win the 100 meters over a weak lineup, with Yohan Blake pulling out injured and Usain Bolt not scheduled to compete.

Allyson Felix’s 10-race winning streak in Doha came to an end when she was second in the 400 meters behind Amantle Montsho. The two-time Olympic 100 champion Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce led Sherone Simpson in a 1-2 Jamaican finish in the 200 meters.
277 2013-05-11 Now is the moment to refuse the usual diplomatic charade: another show of regret, praise for the best efforts of a colleague, followed by fresh calls for another United Nations mission....
278 2013-05-11 The pink lady’s slipper orchid, or moccasin flower, is the queen of springtime wildflowers. It is also one of nature’s most beautiful liars....
279 2013-05-11 F.C. United was formed as an entirely fan-owned club — one member, one vote is an abiding principle — and what began as a small, emotionally charged venture has grown into something far larger.

“We’re not a Manchester United tribute band,” said Vinny Thompson, who works as F.C. United’s promotions officer. “We’re a proper football club.”

One might even argue that they are among the most impressive lower-tier clubs in Britain, where soccer’s primary schism is between the league teams — those in the top four divisions — and the nonleague teams, which play in the divisions below.

F.C. United entered the soccer hierarchy on the 10th rung of the ladder in the 2005-6 season. In the years since, it has been promoted three times, with the chance to go up one more level on Saturday with a win in the final match of the Northern Premier League’s Premier Division playoffs. If F.C. United wins, it will be two steps from holy ground — league football — where, conceivably, it could someday work its way up to the same level as its more decorated doppelgänger.

At the moment, that is even more fantastic than a pipe dream, but all signs point to F.C. United’s being a team on the rise. It has strong leadership, with Walsh, one of two full-time staff members for the club, which is a nonprofit organization that does community work, runs youth teams and routinely plays in front of crowds of 2,500 — or about 10 times the average attendance of other teams in its league.

“A lot of other teams in the league budget their entire season on playing a home game against us,” said Adam Jones, a defender on the team. “That’s how many fans we bring. We played Kendal, which is two and a half hours away, on a Tuesday night and we had 800 fans come. They sang for the entire 90 minutes.”

Jones added: “There’s nothing in nonleague football quite like it. Nothing.”

Any disenfranchised fans of other teams who might be considering their own versions of F.C. United of Manchester (The Jets of New York? The Marlins of Miami?) would be wise to take note: emotion is a powerful catalyst. Walsh said frustration among Manchester United fans had been building for years after the team supporters’ group lobbied to keep Rupert Murdoch from buying the club in 1999. So, after Glazer’s takeover succeeded, it was a natural tipping point.

This wasn’t a coup; Walsh and others who gave up their season tickets at Old Trafford in protest generally did so with heavy hearts. But taking back control of their soccer experience was, in Walsh’s words, a matter of principle. “I don’t support their business model,” he said. “It ignores the fans. And because of that, I won’t give them any cash.”

Buoyed by that sense of sporting righteousness, F.C. United was born. In its first season of existence, the club invited donations from any and all who were interested in joining on the ground floor, and anyone who sent a donation, including a 12-year-old boy who taped 50 pence (about 80 cents) to an envelope and mailed it, became a founding member. Support was significant, and the club raised more than 180,000 pounds (about $278,000) that year.

Today, F.C. United has roughly 2,500 adult members and routinely occupies the middle ground between a quaint, charming community club and an organization that is seeking to build its own stadium because it has aspirations of advancing up the English soccer pyramid.

Sanctity of spirit is the club’s driving force. Volunteers work the turnstiles at home games; a motion to never sell advertising on the team’s jerseys passed with 96 percent of the vote; and language on the club’s Web site colorfully affirms the commitment to fan-based ownership by noting that “no fat cats can get their hands on our club’s money.”

The club does have ambitions, starting with its plan to build its own ground in Moston, which would allow the fans to have their own home base in the northeast section of the city.

The players are not required to maintain the same level of allegiance to the larger cause as the fans/owners — Jones said there are several Manchester United fans on the team and even one player who backs Manchester City — but the roots and mission of F.C. United are not a secret. Most players earn about $220 a week, and many are paid that much only if they play in that week’s game. Otherwise, they might receive $46 or less to train, prepare and then sit on the bench.

There are a variety of ownership models throughout European soccer, with some teams being run by tycoons or conglomerates and others operating under a hybrid fan-and-executive structure. Playing for F.C. United, then, is at minimum a tacit endorsement of a model that Walsh calls “an attempt to find a better way for football.”

F.C. United believes its fan-based system is sustainable and superior, and in an era when numerous teams in the English league experience significant financial problems, Walsh noted that there is surely nothing wrong with trying something different.

When F.C. United of Manchester is compared with its more famous neighbor, different is a bit of an understatement. While F.C. United played for promotion on Saturday, Manchester United took a victory lap at Old Trafford, celebrating Ferguson’s career and the club’s latest Premier League championship.

Manchester United does little to acknowledge F.C. United’s existence (save for a disparaging line or two that Ferguson wrote in his book several years back), while most F.C. United owners have done their best to move on from the glamour of backing a global juggernaut.

They still love United; it is just not the same as it was.

“I don’t know, it’s complicated,” said Thompson, the F.C. United promotions manager. “Man United, they might be my wife, and this is my mistress.”

He laughed. “Or maybe it’s the other way around,” he said. “I’m not sure.”
280 2013-05-11 A similar conundrum now presents itself as Stoudemire returns from another debridement (this one on the right knee) and a two-month absence: whether to play him at all.

The moment of truth will come Saturday night in Indianapolis, when the Knicks and the Indiana Pacers take the court for Game 3 of their second-round playoff series.

Stoudemire is ready to play. Woodson plans to use him, perhaps for 15 minutes, insisting: “If he’s going to suit up, I’m not going to leave him over there. I’m going to throw him in there and see what he’s got, and see if what he’s got can help us win games.”

That would be a sound philosophy in March. But at this stage of the season, with the Knicks locked in a playoff battle against a disciplined Pacers team, the reinsertion of a high-usage scorer with two months of rust seems inherently risky.

The Knicks’ rotation and identity is firmly established. Anthony supplies most of the shots and most of the points. J. R. Smith provides secondary support, when his stroke is right and his head is on straight. Felton drives. Chandler rebounds. Kenyon Martin defends. Everyone else passes and shoots 3-pointers.

Where, exactly, does the scoring-minded Stoudemire fit into this refashioned Knicks universe? Any minutes he plays will necessarily cut into Chandler’s and Martin’s playing time, reducing the Knicks’ defensive resolve in the exchange.

At his best, Stoudemire could offset his poor defense with an explosion of dunks and midrange jumpers, but Stoudemire has not played a game since March 7 and is recovering from his second operation in seven months. He just began scrimmaging this week, looking out of sync and winded after the first session.

“I don’t have time to find my rhythm,” Stoudemire acknowledged Thursday. “It has to be ready from the start, and that’s what it’s going to be.”

The impulse to play Stoudemire is understandable, and it goes beyond the $100 million the Knicks are paying him. Among the Knicks’ traditional big men, he is by far the most offensively skilled. And he looked sturdy enough in his first return this season, averaging 14.2 points on .577 shooting over 29 games. The Knicks’ offense, which has sputtered often in the playoffs, could use a high-percentage scorer to balance out the erratic Smith.

“If he can just give us anything in the short time that he’s in there, I think it will be very effective for our team,” Woodson said.

Under the circumstances, the “if” in that sentence looms large, as do several other ifs. What if the Knicks fall behind by 10 points in the first quarter Saturday night? Can Woodson afford to experiment with Stoudemire in the second? What if they lose a 10-point lead with Stoudemire on the court? Are they prepared for the inevitable criticism? If Stoudemire stumbles in Game 3, is Woodson willing to gamble again in Game 4? In Game 7? In the Eastern Conference finals?

It was telling on Friday that Woodson would not commit to playing Stoudemire and Anthony together — a subtle admission that their pairing remains as vexing as ever.

The Knicks had a losing record with Anthony and Stoudemire in the lineup over their first season and a half as teammates, and advanced metrics showed the Knicks were worse whenever the two shared the court.

Yet Woodson put Stoudemire back in the starting lineup when he returned from a back injury last season, and he had planned to keep the Stoudemire-Anthony pairing in the fall. Then fate intervened, doing Woodson a major favor.

The Knicks are 43-18 without Stoudemire this season, including the playoffs. Their two best stretches of the season came without him. Woodson has the luxury, once again, of easing Stoudemire back in a limited reserve role, or — if things go badly — pulling the plug on his comeback. Few would question the decision under the circumstances.

“Amar’e’s a big piece to what we do,” Woodson insisted again Friday, invoking his pet phrase.

In stature and paycheck, Stoudemire is indeed a big piece, a six-time All-Star who can dominate his position. Except on this team, that position is filled. Where Stoudemire fits into this particular puzzle, or whether he does at all, remains an open question.
281 2013-05-11 The question is whether the America’s Cup, first contested in 1851, has gone too far in its high-technology hunt for modern-day relevance and market share.

“We know this is a risky boat, what happened to Artemis today could happen to us in the future,” said Max Sirena, the skipper of the Italian challenger Luna Rossa.

Keith Mills, former owner of a British team that abandoned plans to participate in this Cup, told The Daily Telegraph on Friday that safety was a factor in his decision.

“Seeing what those boats were capable of, speeds of up to 40 knots, frightened the life out of me,” he told The Telegraph. “The class rules looked like they were dangerous boats to sail. At 40 knots, the control is minimal. Hit a big wave and that is it.”

On Friday, while members of the Artemis Team grieved in private and other teams took a respectful break from training, the fallout was still visible as Iain Murray, the craggy-faced veteran sailor and regatta director for the 34th America’s Cup, fought to maintain his composure as he commented on Simpson’s death.

“Let me start by saying that Andrew was a very good friend,” Murray said, his voice breaking, at a news conference. “He has been one of those larger-than-life figures in our sport. It’s hard to believe he’s gone.

“It’s fair to say Andrew was doing what he loved. It was his passion, and Andrew was used to doing everything in life at the fullest and to the highest level he could. This will not lessen the tragedy that has passed, and of course we need to look at what has happened and understand the consequences.”

While the San Francisco Police Department conducts an inquiry into the fatal accident, Murray, a 55-year-old Australian, will lead the America’s Cup internal investigation with support from the United States Coast Guard.

Though a bear-away move is tricky, Murray will try to determine what caused the catamaran to flip on what was apparently smooth water in relatively typical weather conditions for San Francisco Bay. He will also try to determine why Simpson was not located and recovered in time despite extensive safety precautions — on and off board the AC72 — that included scuba divers and support staff from both Artemis and Oracle Team USA, the America’s Cup defenders who were training nearby.

“What went wrong yesterday was we lost the person,” Murray said. “And that’s what we need to find out: how you lose a person in a small boat with a lot of people looking.”

Murray also will try to determine if these new and spectacular multihulls, capable of speeds exceeding 40 knots, are safe and stable enough in their existing form to allow the America’s Cup preliminaries to go ahead as planned on July 5 with the challenger series known as the Vuitton Cup.

Stephen Barclay, chief executive officer of the America’s Cup event authority, did not rule out significant changes, even cancellation.

“I have every expectation we will host a spectacular event here this summer,” Barclay said. “But I’m not going to prejudge it. Iain will conduct his review, and we will see the outcome and recommendations of that.”

Last Oct. 16, an AC72 owned by Oracle Team USA, the defender of the America’s Cup, capsized during training in San Francisco Bay and was extensively damage, although the crew escaped with only minor injuries.

Lisa Ramsperger, a spokeswoman for Oracle Team USA, said the team had increased its safety training and revised its safety and recovery plan. Its sailors wear portable oxygen supplies, meant to be used if they are trapped underwater, and Murray indicated that members of the Artemis crew on Thursday, including Simpson, had similar equipment.

If true, something could have kept Simpson from getting access to that oxygen during the approximately 10 minutes that officials say he was trapped before rescue and medical crews were able to begin performing cardio pulmonary resuscitation on him, both on chase boats and on the dock of the St. Francis Yacht Club.

“It appears Bart was trapped under some of the solid sections of the yacht, out of view and out of sight to the myriad of people on board trying to locate him, including proper divers with apparatus,” Murray said, using Simpson’s nickname. “All the crews in these boats had been trained in underwater; they all carried oxygen and were meant to be prepared for the worse.”

The British Olympian Iain Percy, the sailing team director and tactician for Artemis, was on board when the accident occurred. He and Simpson won a gold medal together in the Star class at the 2008 Olympics and a silver at the 2012 Games. Percy was one of the key reasons Simpson decided to join Artemis in February.

The psychological impact of Simpson’s death could be far-reaching for Artemis. Murray said that Nathan Outteridge was steering the boat during Thursday’s accident. Outteridge has been expected to be the main helmsman for Artemis in San Francisco.

Barclay said he had had no indication that Artemis intended to withdraw from the Cup. The team is awaiting delivery of its second AC72 next month: a yacht that has been redesigned to compete with other teams that have already launched boats capable of foiling — sailing with both hulls out of the water with the lift generated by angled hydrofoils attached to daggerboards.

“We’re foiling on toothpicks essentially now,” Paul Cayard, the chief executive of Artemis, said before the accident.

Foiling on the downwind legs is considered essential to success in this year’s Cup, but Artemis’s first AC72, the one now in ruins, did not have that capacity. Murray said that did not necessarily make it a less risky proposition to sail.

Asked if two capsizings and one death meant this class of boats was too dangerous, he answered by reeling off a series of fatalities in sailing over the years.

“I was involved in the Sydney-Hobart Race when six people died,” he said of the 1998 race that was struck by a huge storm. “We have to live with these things, and we have to go forward in the best way we can.”

Citing the technological progress in the sport’s equipment, Murray said: “It’s what these guys want to do. They want to take sailing to the next level, and these boats provide that platform.”
282 2013-05-11 Re “Critics of Police Would Make New Yorkers Less Safe, Bloomberg Says” (news article, May 1): Last week, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York and Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly both sunk to new lows in the debate over stop-and-frisk.

Mayor Bloomberg defended his racial profiling program by invoking 9/11 and the recent attack in Boston. And Commissioner Kelly argued that African-Americans, the target of 53 percent of police stops, are actually “under-stopped.”

But it is not civil rights activists who make New York less safe; it is the practice of racial profiling itself. Stop-and-frisk is not only discriminatory; it is also a dangerous distraction.

The program’s folly was illustrated in the pages of this newspaper last year. A New York police officer searching for a male rape suspect stopped to question a group of four young women sitting on a stoop. When the women were not able to help, the officer frisked all four. For the moment, the search for the rapist was deferred.

Just like Mayor Bloomberg’s speech, the main purpose of stop-and-frisk is to breed fear, not to get guns off the streets. Until this mayor or his successor reforms the program, New York City will continue to trail the country in solving homicide cases.
283 2013-05-11 Kathleen M. Zelman, a registered dietitian who is director of nutrition for WebMD, took a look at the nutrition labels for the product before and after sugar was cut and said it was a step in the right direction, though she wished it delivered more protein.

“There’s no nutritional payback from sugar, so any time you can cut it and still enjoy nutritional goodness like that found in yogurt, I’m thrilled,” Ms. Zelman said. “There’s a lot of pressure on sugar these days because of the obesity trends, not that I’m saying it’s the culprit, but we eat too many calories in general and it’s easy to overconsume sugar calories.”

Dannon has reduced sugar in a handful of products before, but never by more than 5 to 10 percent. Reductions of that size merely require subtracting sweetener in small amounts.

But when the company was looking for ways to underscore its commitment to enhancing the healthiness of its products, it decided it needed to do something more dramatic. “We set a target of 25 percent, even though a lot of people said that was too much,” said Thierry Saint-Denis, director of research and development at Dannon.

Reducing sugar by 5 percent is relatively simple, Mr. Saint-Denis said, because milk and other components in yogurt can mask the missing sweetness. Such a change has little impact on yogurt’s viscosity and other characteristics.

But eliminating one-quarter of the sweeteners has much bigger consequences, wreaking havoc not only on taste but on texture, acidity and other aspects. “We decided to do it because it would force us to do something we had never done if we were to meet that target,” Mr. Saint-Denis said.

To explain the complex science of ingredient mix, Mr. Saint-Denis did a little demonstration at the company’s American headquarters in White Plains, involving cups of two different unsweetened yogurts and big syringes filled with liquid sweetener. At the start, one yogurt was tart and acidic, the other more bland — and it quickly became clear that it would take markedly less sugar syrup to arrive at a sweet taste with the bland flavor than with the tart and acidic one. So one crucial factor to less sugar is lower acidity.

The experiment lasted less than a half-hour, but achieving the mix of bacterial cultures that produced a yogurt lower in acidity took two years and involved moving the company’s research and development department from Texas to New York.

Danone, the French parent of Dannon, maintains a library of some 4,000 bacterial cultures that it uses to create its yogurts. The cultures, made from combinations of Lactobacillus delbrueckii subspecies bulgaricus and Streptococcus thermophilus, act on the lactose in milk, fermenting it to produce lactic acid, which gives yogurt its tanginess and texture.

Mr. Saint-Denis and his team experimented with combinations of cultures but had trouble creating a yogurt that had the same consistency, flavor and “mouth feel” as the original Smoothies product when they reduced sugar by 25 percent.

“It is relatively simple to produce less lactic acid, which is what gives yogurt its tartness,” he said. “But then there is not a lot of yogurt taste.”

Eventually, Dannon had to reach beyond its extensive collection of cultures, tapping an outside library for two of the strains that produced the winning combination.

It took two years — two years and one month, to be exact — to get the product to market, 8 to 10 months to achieve the proper fermentation, two months or so to get the right balance of flavorings, two more months of fiddling. The remainder of the time was spent calming the fears of Mr. Fuster, the senior vice president for marketing, and his team and preparing production.

“Especially with kids, they like something or they don’t,” Mr. Saint-Denis said. “They really like the existing product, and we didn’t want to change that.”

So far, Mr. Fuster said, there has been no impact on sales of Smoothies, which, he said, continue to climb.

“We believe this is the way to develop the product in the U.S., where it’s never quite clear what the role of yogurt is,” Mr. Fuster said. “Where I’m from, the first solid food you get as a baby is yogurt, and pediatricians recommend it. So Smoothies is important to us in developing new consumers from early on in their lives.”
284 2013-05-11 LOS ANGELES — As very early box-office numbers for “The Great Gatsby” rolled in — a strong $3.25 million from the Thursday late-night shows, Warner Brothers said on Friday morning — it was already becoming clear that the audience has a mind of its own.

More than a few critics were rough on the film. (“There may be worse movies this summer than ‘The Great Gatsby,’ but there won’t be a more crushing disappointment,” wrote Peter Travers, who reviewed it for Rolling Stone.) But Friday morning found Hollywood’s box office watchers privately predicting opening weekend numbers even higher than the $40 million or so being publicly bandied about in various reports.

A $40 million opening would make it the best, by far, for Baz Luhrmann, who directed the film. According to boxofficemojo.com, his previous record was the $14.8 million in opening weekend ticket sales for “Australia,” which was released by 20th Century Fox in 2008. That film went on to take in about $50 million at the domestic box office, short of the ultimate receipts for “Moulin Rouge!,” which was directed by Mr. Luhrmann, and had $57.4 million in domestic ticket sales after its release in 2001.

Whatever the critics may think, it appears that “The Great Gatsby,” with a big boost from premium-prices 3-D ticket sales, is well on its way to becoming Mr. Luhrmann’s highest grossing film, even adjusting for inflation. According to Box Office Mojo, “Romeo + Juliet,” released in 1996, currently holds that honor. Adjusted to current prices, that film, which took in about $46 million at the time, would have had about $83 million in domestic sales.

But there are bigger things at stake here than Mr. Luhrmann’s career. Based on early ticket sales, the audience appears to be sending a message: It is hungry for spectacle, but it also wants something to talk about. “Iron Man 3” did great for Disney when it opened last weekend. But it isn’t the kind of movie that starts water-cooler arguments, expanding Hollywood’s usual audience with viewers who want to see something challenging, or just new. “Life of Pi” appears to have done that last year. To some extent, “Hugo” did it the year before.

Films of that sort don’t easily spawn sequels. Even Baz Luhrmann would be hard-pressed to design a “Gatsby 2.” But they do stir things up.
285 2013-05-11 Weak hedge fund performance is hardly Cooper Union’s only financial problem. Today’s crisis has been brewing for decades if not longer, and comes after years of what looks like bad management decisions with little accountability or supervision by New York’s attorney general, who oversees nonprofit institutions. Over the decades, Cooper Union has sold off assets piecemeal, failed to diversify its endowment, taken on debt and built a lavish new building. After the 2000-1 stock market plunge, the managed endowment, excluding the Chrysler Building, lost half its value. The school never cultivated its potential donor base, leaving most graduates with the impression that it was wealthy and didn’t need alumni contributions.

In some ways, it’s surprising that the school’s trustees managed to stave off charging tuition as long as they did. “We’ve only been one step ahead of the bailiff for decades,” said John C. Michaelson, a trustee who runs an investment firm and has been chairman of the investment committee since 2012, as well as from 2005 to 2008. “We were pulling rabbits out of hats.”

The simplest rule of asset management, one familiar to even novice investors, is diversification. Yet Cooper Union’s endowment is highly unusual in that it’s concentrated in a single asset — the land under the Chrysler Building — which accounts for nearly 84 percent of its assets, according to its most recent financial statement.

By contrast, Emory University in Atlanta, which as recently as 2001 had 60 percent of its main endowment in Coca-Cola stock, has since sold all of it and diversified into other assets.

Having so much of the endowment in a single asset “is against everything I stand for,” Mr. Michaelson said. He and other trustees said they considered selling it in 2006, when the college was facing mounting financial deficits, but concluded that would be impractical. Cooper Union receives annual lease payments of $9 million from the owner of the Chrysler Building, Tishman Speyer Properties, and $18.2 million in so-called tax equivalency payments that would otherwise go to New York City. The right to the tax revenue couldn’t be transferred to a buyer.

But assuming a 5 percent return, a $27.2 million annual revenue stream would be generated by selling the Chrysler Building land for $544 million, which doesn’t seem so far-fetched a price. Tishman Speyer sold 666 Fifth Avenue, which hardly compares to the landmark Chrysler Building, for $1.8 billion in 2006, and bought the MetLife building in 2005 for $1.72 billion. And the Chrysler site might have been highly appealing to a sovereign wealth fund or other major real estate investor looking for a trophy asset. (A Cooper Union spokesman said the trustees needed to generate annual revenue of $55 million, which the lease is expected to produce beginning in 2018. The amount necessary to generate that revenue at a 5 percent return would be $1.1 billion.)

Still, it doesn’t seem the trustees made any serious attempt to even determine its market price, and the college seems to have had a nostalgic attachment to it as a part of its heritage. In 2006, Cooper Union defended the decision not to sell the land by describing it as “a gift from the children of Peter Cooper,” that is “the heart of the Cooper Union.”

Instead, Cooper Union renegotiated the lease with Tishman Speyer, which was not due to expire until 2047. The college negotiated an increase to $32.5 million in 2018, which rises every 10 years thereafter. But it still had to make it to 2018, five years into the future.

At the same time that Cooper Union decided not to try to sell the site, it borrowed $175 million, using the Chrysler site as collateral, to build a new engineering and art building and “to meet future operating deficits,” as the school acknowledged in court papers seeking permission for the loan. The term of the loan was 30 years, at an interest rate of 5.875 percent, which amounts to more than $10 million in interest payments a year. By today’s standards, 5.875 percent is exorbitant, but the college said it couldn’t refinance the loan at a lower rate.

Hardly anyone disputes Cooper Union’s need for new engineering facilities. Whether it needed that particular building, at such high cost — about $166 million — remains a matter of dispute. Trustees told me that the college’s development consultants told them that a signature building with a marquee architect — in this case, Thom Mayne of Morphosis Architects — would attract a large donor eager to have his or her name on a trophy building.

But no such donor materialized, and experts I consulted said Cooper Union had it backward — the first step is to attract the donor, who then is involved in choosing the architect and designing the building. “I’ve never heard of a case where you build the building first and hope a donor comes along,” said Kenneth E. Redd, director of research and policy analysis for the National Association of College and University Business Officers. Trustees I spoke to agreed that the assurances they got that donors would materialize proved to be wrong. “We were supposed to raise another $125 million,” a trustee told me. “We didn’t. Maybe we were over-optimistic, but we had these professional development people who told us someone would want to put their name on the building.”

Of the loan proceeds, $34 million was turned over to the school’s endowment. According to Mr. Michaelson, all of that was held in cash and used over the next few years to cover the school’s mounting operating deficits. “I never would have borrowed money to invest in the market,” Mr. Michaelson said. “It’s against everything I believe in; I don’t believe in leverage. Leverage is great on the upside. It destroys you on the downside. We couldn’t afford to lose money.”

But the endowment aside, the large loan did have the effect of adding a large amount of leverage to Cooper Union’s balance sheet at what turned out to be an especially bad moment. And the cash freed up other money for alternative assets at what turned out to be the top of the market. In 2006, the school had $19.4 million in hedge funds. In 2007, that had ballooned to $75.6 million, which amounted to more than 60 percent of the managed portfolio, excluding the Chrysler site and cash. By 2008, the hedge fund investments amounted to almost $103 million. That’s a very high concentration of the non-real estate assets in a single asset class.

Cooper Union’s heavy reliance on hedge funds “strikes me as irresponsible,” said Simon Lack, an investment adviser and author of “The Hedge Fund Mirage,” which questions many of the premises of hedge funds. “Of course, it was forced upon them by a long series of what look like bad decisions. But there’s no way that hedge funds could deliver the returns they wanted after their high fee structure.”

Mr. Michaelson said he anticipated there might be a market downturn, and that the hedge funds included so-called long-short funds and absolute return strategies intended to protect against declining markets. But by the end of fiscal year 2009, Cooper Union’s hedge funds amounted to just $18.8 million, in part because of market declines and in part through liquidation.

Mr. Michaelson said he was aiming for a 10 percent annual return, which may have been attainable in the early days of hedge funds, when they had much less capital to invest. Today, “such returns are simply unrealistic,” Mr. Lack said.

Hedge funds did help cushion the market decline in fiscal year 2009, when the S.& P. 500 dropped about 26 percent. But they have hurt the endowment’s performance since then. Mr. Michaelson said Cooper Union’s returns for the managed endowment, excluding the Chrysler asset and cash, were negative 14 percent in fiscal year 2009, 10 percent in 2010 and 17 percent in 2011. Cooper Union’s portfolio lost 5 percent in fiscal year 2012. That portion of the endowment fell to about $85.9 million at the end of fiscal year 2012, from about $169 million in 2008, and the total endowment dropped to $666.7 million from $710 million in 2008.

By comparison, a simple mix of 60 percent stocks, as measured by the S.& P. 500, and 40 percent bonds, using the Dow Jones corporate bond index, performed far better: down 11.7 percent in 2009, and up 14.5 percent in 2010, 20.8 percent in 2011 and 7.9 percent in 2012. Yet investors keep pouring money into hedge funds — a record $15.2 billion in this year’s first quarter. Hedge funds now have $2.375 trillion under management, according to Hedgeweek, a trade publication; the value of the assets increased by $122 billion in the first quarter.

Cooper Union’s costs, especially health care costs, kept mounting inexorably. In 2008, the college was $4.6 million short in cash. Last fiscal year, the cash-flow deficit was $13.2 million.

Aside from endowment income, universities have only limited options for increasing revenue: donations, tuition and, for research universities, government grants. Alumni contributions have long been a weak spot at Cooper Union. Thomas R. Driscoll, a trustee and member of the alumni council, said: “There was never any sense of giving back. Cooper never asked. We always thought Cooper didn’t need the money because it had the Chrysler Building. Forty years ago, I would have stressed to students that someone had to make it possible for you to come here for free.”

With few donations, that left Cooper Union only one option: charging tuition. On April 23, the college announced that it would cut the full-tuition scholarship in half beginning with the entering class in 2014, and would continue to offer full-tuition scholarships to students with demonstrated need. “Our priorities have been and will continue to be quality and access, so that we will remain a true meritocracy of outstanding students from all socio-economic backgrounds,” the college’s trustees said in a statement.

Mr. Michaelson conceded that the school could have continued to use the endowment to cover deficits and would have survived until 2018, when the higher payments from the Chrysler lease start. “But what kind of school would you have had by then?”
286 2013-05-11 The White House press secretary, Jay Carney, said the events in question happened while the I.R.S. was under the directorship of a Bush administration appointee and regardless, it is an agency run independently of White House oversight. He also said the matter is already under investigation by the agency’s inspector general.

The apology and the ensuing reaction could be a turning point for the I.R.S., which has been caught between Congressional Democrats pressing the agency to more aggressively protect tax-exempt status from overtly political groups and conservative groups claiming harassment.

Campaign finance watchdogs have said for years that 501(c)(4) tax exemptions are widely abused by conservative and liberal groups whose primary purpose is to influence elections, not to promote “social welfare,” as tax-exempt status mandates.

But Ms. Lerner said the examinations of the Tea Party groups were not a response to such pressure. She portrayed it more as a bureaucratic mix-up. Between 2010 and 2012, applications for 501(c)(4) tax exemptions nearly doubled, to more than 2,400. As the agency has done in the past, it centralized the processing of the surge at its Cincinnati office, where about 300 were flagged for further examination.

Staff members at that office singled out the terms “Tea Party” and “patriot,” she said, but not out of political bias; it was “just their shortcut.” Only about a quarter of the 300 cases flagged for scrutiny were Tea Party-related, she said, but she called the singling out of those groups “absolutely inappropriate and not the way we should do things.”

Ms. Lerner indicated that no disciplinary action had been taken against the low-level employees she said were responsible; when pressed, she said she could not comment on personnel matters. But, she said, policy changes had been made to ensure that similar episodes would not occur. For instance, high-level I.R.S. officials must now approve efforts to lump similar applications or audits into one centralized location for processing.

To the conservative groups and their defenders, the acknowledgment confirmed their worst accusations. In early 2012, numerous Tea Party-affiliated groups came forward to charge the I.R.S. with harassment for demanding that they fill out extensive — and intrusive — questionnaires before their tax-exempt applications could be approved. The questionnaires demanded detailed membership lists, donors, contact information, logs of activities and other information about the groups’ intentions.

Many of those groups found representation with the conservative American Center for Law and Justice and its outspoken lead lawyer, Jay Sekulow, who accused the I.R.S. of “McCarthyism” intended to stifle conservative speech.

The center called the apology “a significant victory for free speech.”

But the leader of one of the groups that cried foul, the Kentucky 9/12 Project, said he had received no such admission from the agency. Eric Wilson, the group’s director, said he never complied with the I.R.S. questionnaire.

Nonetheless, the I.R.S. sent the group a one-paragraph letter on April 1 granting nonprofit status, with no explanation for the protracted process and no regrets, he said.

Organizations that had been pressing for more aggressive enforcement of tax-exemption laws reacted with alarm. Lisa Gilbert, the director of Public Citizen’s Congress Watch division, said the I.R.S. should not be targeting any particular political ideology. But, she said, questioning applicants for tax exemption to determine whether they were primarily political was entirely proper and should be more widely pursued.

“We don’t think it’s inappropriate to ask questions,” she said. “Tax-exempt groups are abusing their tax status to pursue political agendas.”

Under current law, tax-exempt 501(c)(4) organizations are supposed to be “primarily” engaged in social welfare work. In practice, groups like the conservative Crossroads GPS and the liberal Priorities USA appear to spend virtually all their efforts trying to sway elections.

Last year, Senate Democrats began pressing the I.R.S. to more aggressively target such groups. As the Tea Party questionnaires surfaced, the agency released a statement saying, “To be tax-exempt as a social welfare organization described in Internal Revenue Code (IRC) section 501(c)(4), an organization must be primarily engaged in the promotion of social welfare. The promotion of social welfare does not include any unrelated business activities or intervention in political campaigns on behalf of or in opposition to any candidate for public office.”

But pressure will now come from the other direction. Representative Dave Camp of Michigan, the House Ways and Means Committee chairman, announced Friday that he would hold hearings on the matter. Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House majority leader, promised an investigation.

Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, the ranking Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, rejected the apology as insufficient, demanding “ironclad guarantees from the I.R.S. that it will adopt significant protocols to ensure this kind of harassment of groups that have a constitutional right to express their own views never happens again.”
287 2013-05-11 The Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index ended at milestone highs on Friday, as shares posted a third consecutive week of gains when a rise in Google and other technology shares offset a slide in energy stocks.

Indexes were flat for much of the session, but managed a late-day surge. On Thursday, the S.& P. 500 broke a five-day streak of new closing highs.

Stocks have risen on the Federal Reserve’s bond buying and some encouraging corporate earnings, but analysts said the momentum could wane without further positive signs.

“I think it’s going to be hard to maintain these levels in the short term,” said Natalie Trunow, chief investment officer of equities at Calvert Investment Management in Maryland, which has about $13 billion in assets.

“There are not a lot of positive catalysts to keep it going,” she said, noting that spending cuts by the federal government could pressure the economy in the near term.
288 2013-05-11 “There needs to be a careful investigation of each and every incident like this,” Ms. Pillay said. “We should not reach the point in this conflict where people become numb to the atrocious killing of civilians.”

United Nations investigators are receiving consistent testimony that government forces are targeting hospitals, bakeries, schools and other sources of life-sustaining support, and that they are shelling and rocketing civilian areas regardless of whether they have a minimal or heavy rebel presence, she said.

“But the disgraceful disregard for the protection of civilians is not restricted to the government side,” she added. “The scope of violations by antigovernment armed groups has also increased alarmingly.” Opposition attacks in Damascus, the Syrian capital, have killed and wounded dozens of civilians, she said, and abductions by the radical Nusra Front appear to be increasing.

The British prime minister, David Cameron, echoed some of Ms. Pillay’s sense of urgency after meeting with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia on Friday.

“We urgently have to do more for the sake of people in Syria to break the vicious cycle that threatens to destroy Syria and that threatens to export violence and extremism around the world,” Mr. Cameron said after the talks in Sochi, Russia, the site of next year’s Winter Olympics.

He suggested that there had been progress toward a reconciliation with Russia on how to secure an end to the bloodshed.

“It’s no secret that we have had differing views on how best to handle the situation, but we share fundamental aims: to end the conflict, to stop Syria fragmenting, to let the Syrian people choose who governs them and to prevent the growth of violent extremism,” he said.

He added, “The president and I have agreed that as permanent members of the U.N., we must help to drive this process, working with partners in the region and beyond, not just bringing the regime and opposition together at one negotiating table, but Britain, Russia, America and other countries helping shape a transitional government that all Syrians can trust to protect them.”

But Mr. Putin said only that there was agreement on wanting “a swift end to the violence and the start of a peace process, and we both want to preserve Syria’s territorial integrity and sovereignty.”

Russia’s emphasis on preserving Syria’s sovereignty has been a refrain in its opposition to military intervention in the Syrian conflict and its opposition to any Western-led effort to remove President Bashar al-Assad from power; Russia has instead insisted that the two sides negotiate a settlement.

Mr. Putin allowed that at Mr. Cameron’s initiative, they had “discussed the possible scenarios that could bring about positive development of this process, and examined the possible joint steps we could take.”
289 2013-05-12 With her impeccable eye and philanthropic largess, Carla Fendi is aiming to revive the faded glories of the once majestic Spoleto Festival.&#xa;&#xa;   &#xa;On a quiet morning in the Umbrian hill town of Spoleto, Carla Fendi is pacing the stage of...
290 2013-05-12 You may not get room service or a terry cloth robe, but what Airbnb vacation rentals lack in amenities, they make up for in unbelievable, sometimes rather bizarre experiences.&#xa;&#xa;   &#xa;One of urban life&#x2019;s uncommon diversions is the ...
291 2013-05-12 Emily Tru Kuo and Michael Chu were married Saturday in Houston. The Rev. P. Clay Holland performed the ceremony at Christ the King Presbyterian Church.

The bride, 37, will continue to use her name professionally. She is an associate general counsel at M. D. Anderson Services Corporation, which provides services to and manages the clinical affiliations of the University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. She graduated cum laude and received a law degree from Harvard.

She is the daughter of Macus Tien Kuo of Houston and the late Dr. Eunice Yuh-Jyh Kuo. The bride’s father is the Felix L. Haas Professor in Basic Science at M. D. Anderson’s molecular pathology department. Her mother, an internist, was in private practice in Houston.

Mr. Chu, 42, is an assistant federal prosecutor for the Southern District of Texas in Houston, where he tries organized crime cases. He graduated from Johns Hopkins and received a law degree from the University of Virginia.

He is the son of Dr. Emilio C. Chu of Yorba Linda, Calif., and the late Paz Chu. The groom’s mother was the office manager of her husband’s urology practice, which was in Akron, Ohio, and from which he retired.
292 2013-05-12 Meghan Kathleen McCarthy and Gregory Anthony Vadala were married Saturday in Princeton, N.J. Msgr. Walter E. Nolan performed the ceremony at St. Paul’s Church, with the Rev. Elizabeth R. Wright, a United Methodist minister, taking part.

Mrs. Vadala, 27, is a policy analyst for McBee Strategic, a political consultancy in Washington. She graduated from the College of William and Mary in Williamsburg, Va. She is a daughter of Deirdre A. McCarthy and James W. McCarthy of Monmouth Junction, N.J.

Mr. Vadala, 35, is the communications director in Washington for Representative Allyson Y. Schwartz, Democrat of Pennsylvania. He graduated and received a master’s degree in journalism and government affairs from American University in Washington. He is the son of Roseann Vadala and Gregory V. Vadala of Wayne, N.J.
293 2013-05-12 Patricia Leslie Elam and Charles Edward Walker were married Saturday evening at the Museum of the National Center of Afro-American Artists in Boston. The Rev. Dr. Robert M. Franklin, a Church of God in Christ minister, officiated, with assistance from Marionette Fennell-Patterson, who is affiliated with Soka Gakkai International U.S.A., a Buddhist lay organization.

The bride, 59, will use the name Elam-Walker. She is the associate director at the Center for Excellence in Teaching at Simmons College in Boston, which provides resources and support to the faculty. She is the author of the novel “Breathing Room.” She graduated cum laude from Adelphi and received a law degree from Northeastern and an M.F.A. in creative writing from the University of Maryland.

She is a daughter of Barbara Clark Elam of Needham, Mass., and the late Judge Harry J. Elam.

The groom, 62, is the chief administrative hearings officer at the Massachusetts Division of Professional Licensure in Boston. He graduated from Moorpark junior college in Moorpark, Calif., and with high honors from the University of California, Santa Barbara. He received a law degree from Boston College.

He is the son of the late Marguerite Lee Walker and the late Lt. Col. Charles E. Walker, who during World War II was one of the Tuskegee Airmen. His parents lived in Camarillo, Calif.

The bride’s two previous marriages ended in divorce, as did the groom’s previous marriage.

The couple met at a law school mixer at Northeastern in 1977.
294 2013-05-12 Nominees at all levels of Washington’s bureaucracy — 117 of them in all, including cabinet secretaries, judges and members of obscure oversight boards — are facing delays. Just last week, the Senate confirmed David Medine, the president’s choice to lead the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board. The time between his nomination and confirmation was 510 days. Every Republican voted no.

The shrinking number of senators from both parties who are willing to cross the aisle and the growing appeal of adding a “no” vote on a presidential nominee to a political résumé have contributed to the slowdown.

“It was rare in the past for a cabinet nominee to face a filibuster or blanket holds,” said Norman J. Ornstein, a scholar on Congress for the American Enterprise Institute. “Now it seems almost routine.”

A first wave of the president’s second-term nominees to high-level positions — secretary of defense, secretary of the Treasury and director of the Central Intelligence Agency — faced intense scrutiny in the Senate but were eventually confirmed after a bruising process that left members of both parties exhausted. Then the backlog seemed to ease.

But now, Republicans have resumed an effort to hold up many of the president’s choices, often by burying them in paperwork. One tactic that has become a favorite is submitting hundreds of written questions that the nominees are obliged to answer.

Ms. McCarthy received nearly 1,100 written questions from Republicans, according to White House records. Mr. Perez received 200. Jacob J. Lew, who was confirmed as Treasury secretary in February, got 395. (By comparison, Henry M. Paulson Jr., who served as one of President George W. Bush’s Treasury secretaries, received just 81 questions: 49 from Democrats and 32 from Republicans.)

Senator Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California, said Republicans were not only being unreasonable but were also ignoring the president’s prerogative to name like-minded appointees.

“Eleven hundred questions were submitted to her,” Ms. Boxer said last week, gesturing to the empty seats in the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee room where her Republican colleagues would usually sit. They had all boycotted the meeting in objection to Ms. McCarthy.

“We just had an election,” Ms. Boxer went on. “And this isn’t Mr. Romney’s cabinet, or Mr. Rick Perry’s cabinet. This is Barack Obama’s cabinet.”

Republicans, who have 45 votes, say their tactics, including their filibuster threat, are hardly unique, and they point to the Democrats’ use of the filibuster to block Mr. Bush’s judicial nominees when they were in the minority.

“This is not historic, this is not unprecedented, this is not new,” said Don Stewart, a spokesman for Senate Republicans, adding that Republicans had every right to have their questions — even 1,100 of them — answered.

Even more contentious nomination fights loom. The director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Robert S. Mueller III, intends to step down in September. And the nominee to succeed him will almost certainly face tough questions in light of the revelations that the bureau may have missed signs that the Boston Marathon bombing suspects were a threat.

And at least one Supreme Court justice is likely to retire before the end of Mr. Obama’s second term.

The partisan acrimony has led both sides to make unusually shrewd use of the Senate’s esoteric rules. Because Ms. Boxer’s committee was unable to hold a vote on Ms. McCarthy’s nomination — its rules state that at least two members of the minority party must be present for a quorum — she says she will use her own procedural trick.

It works like this: even if every member of the minority party is absent, committees can hold votes if all members of the majority are present. This has been a problem for Democrats because one committee member in their party, Frank R. Lautenberg of New Jersey, is ill and has not been in Washington in recent weeks.

So Mr. Lautenberg plans to travel to Washington on Thursday to give Democrats the quorum they need to force a vote that pushes Ms. McCarthy’s nomination to the Senate floor.

Republicans warn that Ms. Boxer would be setting a dangerous standard by disregarding the concerns of the minority party, and they point to the likelihood that the same tactic could be used in reverse if Republicans gain control of the Senate.

Republicans have found canny ways to block votes. In an especially adroit move last week, they stopped Mr. Perez, the labor secretary nominee, from receiving a committee vote by objecting to a routine procedural motion on the Senate floor that is almost always agreed to unanimously.

Their objection set off a rarely used rule that prevents committees from meeting while the full Senate is in session.

Democrats plan to move ahead with a committee vote on Mr. Perez on Thursday by scheduling their meeting early in the morning before the Senate has convened, denying Republicans the chance to object.

“My Republican colleagues can try every trick in the book,” Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said last week. “I assure you Mr. Perez will have his day in the Senate. I assure you Ms. McCarthy will have her day in the Senate.”
295 2013-05-12 Charlotte Brown, a partly blind 15-year-old pole-vaulter, cleared three heights at the Texas state championships in Austin but did not win a medal. Her best vault of Saturday’s final was 10 feet 6 inches, and she missed at 11-0.
296 2013-05-12 Adam Wainwright carried a no-hitter into the eighth inning and was one out from the St. Louis Cardinals’ second straight one-hitter over the suddenly punchless Colorado Rockies in a 3-0 victory Saturday.

The visiting Rockies were hitless in 49 consecutive at-bats before Nolan Arenado lined a clean hit to center field with one out in the eighth. Eric Young led off Friday night’s game with a broken-bat single off the rookie Shelby Miller, but the Rockies failed to put a runner on until Todd Helton walked with one out in the fifth inning a day later.

“I thought for sure he was going to throw a no-hitter,” the 22-year-old Miller said of Wainwright’s performance. “He was locked in. We both threw well, and his was exciting to watch, especially.”

PHILLIES 3, DIAMONDBACKS 1 Cliff Lee pitched seven scoreless innings and Jimmy Rollins drove in a pair of runs as visiting Philadelphia beat Arizona.

Domonic Brown added a run-scoring single in the seventh for the Phillies.

CUBS 8, NATIONALS 2 Dominant early, Washington starter Stephen Strasburg fell apart after one of Ryan Zimmerman’s two errors against visiting Chicago and wound up dropping his fifth consecutive decision.
297 2013-05-12 Serena Williams and Maria Sharapova will play for the No. 1 ranking and the Madrid Open title on Sunday after winning semifinals. The top-ranked Williams will have a chance to win her 50th title after she beat Sara Errani, 7-5, 6-2. Sharapova, who is ranked No. 2, defeated Ana Ivanovic, 6-4, 6-3.

On the men’s side, Rafael Nadal reached his seventh consecutive final since returning from a knee injury, brushing aside the wild-card entry Pablo Andujar, 6-0, 6-4. Nadal will play Stanislas Wawrinka, who recovered late to defeat Tomas Berdych, 6-3, 4-6, 6-4.

¶ Bernard Tomic has pulled out of the Rome Masters, a French Open tuneup, as his father fights an assault charge in a Spanish court. (AFP)
298 2013-05-12 Red Sox closer Joel Hanrahan needs season-ending surgery on his right forearm, which will require a recovery time of six to nine months. Hanrahan, 31, will probably have the surgery this week. Hanrahan, obtained from Pittsburgh in an off-season trade, is a two-time All-Star making $7.04 million this year. He was 0-1 with a 9.82 earned run average in nine games.
299 2013-05-12 The deals are already drawing some criticism, particularly from those who worry that some of the provisions — in addition to already increased annual visa allotments available generally — could create an influx of foreigners large enough to undermine American workers.

“This could turn into a stealth immigration policy,” said Ronil Hira, a professor of public policy at the Rochester Institute of Technology who studies the immigration system. “Every country is going to try to negotiate its own carve-out.”

Indeed, lawmakers are already pushing to grant special benefits to other places, including Tibet, Hong Kong and parts of Africa.

Advocates of the measures say they serve American interests. Loosening the tourist visa requirements, for example, would result in hundreds of thousands of additional visitors spending billions of dollars each year, supporters say.

Senator , a New York Democrat who was responsible in part for inserting the measures affecting Poland, and Ireland into the legislation, defends them. “Each of these provisions makes individual sense on the merits,” a spokesman for the senator said. “They each solve inequities in the existing immigration law.”

The proposed foreign deals have drawn little scrutiny, but Senator , Republican of , and his staff are starting to raise questions about some of them, saying Americans deserve to fully understand what is in the huge immigration package. “I plan to ask many questions throughout this process,” Mr. Grassley warned during a Senate Judiciary Committee meeting on Thursday.

Some diplomats who worked for the carefully devised benefits had hoped to avoid such attention. “If we could stay below the radar, we would much prefer it,” one senior official at an embassy in Washington said on the condition of anonymity.

Most of the language in the immigration package, created by a bipartisan group of eight senators, applies equally to citizens of any foreign nation. It calls for tougher border security and a pathway to citizenship for millions of illegal immigrants in the United States. It also increases the number of visas for high-skilled workers to at least 110,000 annually from the current 65,000 and eases the way for those already here to seek a permanent resident visa, known as green card. With uncertain support in the Senate and tough opposition in the House, the fate of the bill is far from clear.

But with access to the United States a prize coveted across much of the world, the push for special favors has been intense, according to Congressional and Justice Department records.

An Irish-American group, working with the Irish Embassy, hired former Representative Bruce Morrison, Democrat of , to help push its cause, arguing that changes in immigration law decades ago created an unfair barrier to citizens of Ireland in gaining access to the United States.

In 1990, he inserted a provision, since named the Morrison Visa, into immigration legislation that temporarily gave special preference to citizens of Ireland and a small number of other nations. The current proposal would allow work visas for 10,500 Irish citizens annually who are high school graduates, an unusual opportunity, since such visas are generally reserved for foreigners considered “high skilled.”

Prime Minister Enda Kenny of Ireland joined the effort, making the case with President Obama at St. Patrick’s Day events in Washington.

Lobbyists working for South Korea — including Brian D. Smith, a White House aide during the Clinton administration; Scott D. Parven, a former Senate aide; Kirsten A. Chadwick, a Bush White House aide; and Jonathan R. Wakely, a former C.I.A. political analyst — made dozens of calls and visits to Capitol Hill in recent months to push for a special “professional visa” for its citizens, focusing on central players on the House and Senate Judiciary Committees, the Justice Department records show.

The lobbyists or the political action committees run by their firms have also made campaign donations to lawmakers who support their cause, in some cases just weeks before the helpful language was introduced, campaign finance records show. Foreign officials are prohibited by law from contributing to American political campaigns.

President of South Korea, on her first official visit to Washington last week, pressed Mr. Obama and lawmakers to preserve the language in the immigration legislation that would designate at least 5,000 special work visas for South Koreans, or pass an even more generous stand-alone bill introduced last month, which would create 15,000 such visas annually.

The South Korean government has said the provision is a necessary companion to the free trade agreement both nations ratified in 2011, so that highly skilled workers can move back and forth between the two countries freely. received a similar deal in 2005 after it negotiated its own free trade pact.

“If the bill on visa quotas for Korean professionals is passed in this Congress, both our economies will benefit, for it would help create many more jobs,” Ms. Park said in an address to Congress on Wednesday. She followed up by soliciting help from American corporations at a luncheon hosted by the .

Senator , Republican of , has been the leading proponent of South Korea’s request on the Senate side, while Representative Peter Roskam, Republican of , is leading the effort in the House. “It allows the free trade agreement to flourish and meet its potential,” said Mr. Roskam, who sat next to Ms. Park at a dinner hosted by the South Korean embassy last week.

The Poles made their pitch at Ambassador Ryszard Schnepf’s residence on Tuesday, where hundreds of Polish diplomats, military personnel and prominent Polish-Americans joined at least half a dozen members of Congress and the guest of honor, Mr. Biden. (He joked that some in his home state, , called him “Joe Bidenski.”)

Poland wants the United States to revamp the rules that allow foreign nations to become eligible for the so-called visa waiver program, letting tourists visit the United States without having a formal interview at embassies overseas.

Poland has been unable to qualify because too many of its citizens are rejected when they apply for visas — an indicator that they might try to fraudulently use a tourist visa to immigrate to the United States.

The effort to revise the rules has support from the White House and groups that promote tourism in the United States. The provision could also benefit 10 or so other countries, including , and .

But Jess T. Ford, who examined border security issues for the until 2011, said the change could create a loophole leaving the United States vulnerable to increased illegal immigration, at least until the United States sets up a long-delayed system to monitor visitors when they exit, not just when they arrive.

“Once somebody comes in here as a tourist, you can’t keep track of them,” Mr. Ford said in an interview.

So far, Obama administration officials and backers of the measure in Congress say they are confident that simplifying the tourist entry process will not create such a problem, as an exit-tracking system is promised as part of the package. It is a position that the lobbying team pushing for the change considers good news.

“I am confident, Mr. Vice President, that with your help, we will get this issue across the finish line,” Ambassador Schnepf told Mr. Biden last week, drawing applause and cheers.
300 2013-05-12 Representative Maxine Waters of California has softened her tone since becoming the top Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee in January.
301 2013-05-12 In 2008, Jones and Green made their college debuts, and both were showered with national awards. Jones had 58 catches for 924 yards and 4 touchdowns with three 100-yard games for Alabama. Green made 11 starts and set Georgia freshman records with 56 receptions and 963 yards.

The big-play chops Green-Beckham flashed this spring has coaches convinced he is over growing pains and ready for the fast track.

“He’s a different guy,” Coach Gary Pinkel said. “He catches the ball so well, he can turn an average play into a big play, and I think we’re starting to see really how good he can be.”

The 6-foot-6, 220-pound Green-Beckham also drew comparisons to Calvin Johnson and Andre Johnson coming out of Hillcrest High School in Springfield, Mo. Missouri first offered him a scholarship at age 15, and Green-Beckham declined offers from Alabama, Texas and Oklahoma.

Since arriving, there has been no star treatment. Green-Beckham was behind the senior starter Marcus Lucas for the spring game. But he is not the only top-10 recruit who struggled last year. Florida redshirted defensive tackle Mario Edwards, ranked No. 1 over all by ESPN; Alabama safety Landon Collins made no starts; the highlight game for Florida State defensive tackle Eddie Goldman was three tackles with one for a loss against Wake Forest; and Notre Dame’s Davonte Neal managed one catch for a 5-yard loss.

Green-Beckham did not put up huge numbers in the annual Black and Gold game last month, with three catches for 49 yards. But his 35-yard catch and run over the middle was among the highlights, and he was much more at ease talking to reporters, too.

“Just a guy feeling like he knows what he’s doing,” the new offensive coordinator Josh Henson said. “He’s getting more comfortable with executing his assignments, and he’s getting the ball, he’s getting open and making plays.

“And I think all those things lend to your personality coming out, feeling more comfortable in your skin.”

The spring game offered plenty of teaching points, too. Henson said Green-Beckham’s route could have been run “a lot better” on a pass that was intercepted and added Green-Beckham must learn to combine body control and ability consistently.

“He’s got great talent,” Henson said. “He’s got to learn to use it every snap, every down, every time. He does that, he’s going to have a chance to be a great player.”

Despite the limited looks last year, Green-Beckham had a team-leading five touchdown catches and his 14.1-yard average hinted at the blend of elusiveness. (He was suspended for one game after being arrested by the campus police for possession of marijuana, for which he later pleaded guilty to trespassing.)

Green-Beckham numbers paled in comparison with his prodigious production in high school, when he set a national record of 6,353 yards receiving and 75 touchdowns, and racked up 119 catches and 24 touchdowns as a senior.

Missouri gave most improved awards at every position, many of them to under-the-radar players who climbed a notch or two on the depth chart. Though very much on the radar, Green-Beckham was the pick as most improved wide receiver.

“Last year took a lot of pressure off me, going out there and learning quickly as the game went by,” Green-Beckham said. “As spring ball went by, I’ve learned and become that player that everybody wanted me to be.”

The variable Green-Beckham cannot control is who is throwing to him. The senior James Franklin is coming off a disappointing, injury-plagued junior year and will have to outplay the challengers Maty Mauk and Corbin Berkstresser in August to keep his starting job.

After grading all the practices, scrimmages and the spring game, Henson said the coaching staff had “an opinion in our minds” about the quarterback competition.

“I like the variety of all of them,” Green-Beckham said. “I mean, they’ve all got good arms and they’re all going to make positive things happen when they step on the field.”

That has got to be Green-Beckham’s aim, too.

“He can be a lot better than what we’re seeing right now,” Pinkel said. “You take all summer, and then all August. We should see a considerably different guy than we saw a year ago.”
302 2013-05-12 For a method based not on technology but primarily on observations of people, it has been embraced by an unlikely crowd: executives, board members and staff members at some of Silicon Valley’s biggest companies, including Google and Oracle; and heavy users of technology like Mr. Drudge.

“I need to do things that make sense and that I can see results from. Esther’s work is like that,” said Susan Wojcicki, 44, one of Google’s senior vice presidents, who has suffered from back and neck pain that she attributes to doing too much work at her desk.

Ms. Gokhale is not the first to suggest that changing posture is the key to a healthy spine. Practitioners of the Alexander Technique and the creators of the Aplomb Institute in Paris similarly help clients find more natural and comfortable ways to position themselves. Pilates and physical therapy can improve posture and bring awareness to it. A handful of companies, like Lumo BodyTech, now sell personal posture monitors, offering smartphone users constant feedback about the way they hold their bodies.

Ms. Gokhale’s methods have not been tested scientifically, though a doctor at the Palo Alto Medical Foundation is planning on conducting clinical trials by the end of the year.

But Ms. Gokhale, who was trained as a biochemist at Princeton University and studied at Stanford’s medical school, has some influence among medical professionals, particularly in Silicon Valley. Over 100 have referred patients to her, and a similar number have taken her course, she says.

FOR many office workers in the United States, sitting at a desk all day goes hand in hand with back, neck and shoulder discomfort. Stress and poor positioning can bring on aches or exacerbate injuries among workers faced with heavy computing, constant travel and long meetings. Regardless of occupation or lifestyle, backaches affect most Americans — about 8 in 10 deal with the pain at some point in their lifetimes, according to Dr. Richard Deyo, a professor of family medicine at Oregon Health and Science University.

The expenses are huge as well. By one estimate that appeared in The Journal of the American Medical Association, the national cost of treating people with back and neck pain was $86 billion in 2005. And with back pain one of the top reasons for worker disability, missed work because of these aches may cost employers close to $7 billion a year, according to one study.

For the majority of people with back pain, the aches are short-lived and relief comes with rest and time, according to Dr. Deyo. But methods to help those with chronic pain are diverse. Using a standing desk at work has become a popular way to ease discomfort. Exercise, yoga, acupuncture and chiropractic have also been shown to reduce pain. Medical treatments like surgery and steroids continue to be important options, doctors say, even amid concerns that these have been overused.

Dr. Haleh Agdassi, a rehabilitation doctor with the Palo Alto Medical Foundation in California, sees back and neck pain so frequently among heavy users of computers that she calls it the “Silicon Valley syndrome.” She encourages clients to try a mix of nonsurgical strategies, but finds it frustrating that treatments for such a common problem are only modestly effective.

“There’s no magic bullet out there for back pain,” she says. “That can be overwhelming for patients. It’s an anxious, vulnerable crowd — they’re looking for solutions.”

Ms. Gokhale, 52, can relate to the anxiety of searching for an answer. She previously dealt with pain in her lower back, first as a college student practicing yoga, then as a young mother with sciatica. She eventually had surgery for a herniated disk, but it failed, she said.

When doctors suggested she try a second time, Ms. Gokhale began a search for other answers. Many of her own clients come to her similarly exasperated, she said.

Mr. Drudge read Ms. Gokhale’s book, “8 Steps to a Pain-Free Back,” before training with her in person. “I needed her touch, her observations and her humanity,” he said.

Donna Dubinsky, co-founder and former chief executive of Palm, worked with Ms. Gokhale two years ago after trying chiropractic, cortisone shots and physical therapy to minimize the pain of herniated disks in her back.

“All of these other things were about symptom relief. The question for me became: what could I do to address the root cause?” said Ms. Dubinsky, 57, who now stands during many meetings to practice Ms. Gokhale’s posture lessons. “Not that it’s a miracle cure, but of all the things I’ve tried, what Esther taught me was the most effective,” she added.

IN Ms. Gokhale’s courses, offered in her Palo Alto, Calif., studio and in cities across the country, students relearn how to sit, stand, sleep and walk. While some clients take private classes, many enroll in group workshops with eight to 10 people who meet for six 90-minute sessions. While the students are often strangers, the classes are casual and intimate: most clients wear yoga clothes or sweat pants, and they giggle awkwardly as Ms. Gokhale adjusts their bodies.

Ms. Gokhale says that most Americans tend to be relaxed and slumped (think of a C-shaped spine), or arched up and tense (an S shape), the stand-up-straight style of posture that some parents demand of their children. She helps her students return their bodies to the stance that she says nature intended: upright and relaxed (a tall J spine).

With the care of a kindergarten teacher, Ms. Gokhale adjusts clients’ bodies from bottom to top. She helps clients relax the front of the pelvis downward, so the belt line slants forward and the butt angles back, so “your behind is behind you, not under you” (a contrast to the neutral pelvis recommended in Pilates and some physical therapy).

Ms. Gokhale guides students’ rib cages that sway too far back, so they are flush with the stomach. She takes their hunched shoulders, rolls them up and brings them gently back and down. And she helps students release tension in their necks by re-centering their heads over their spines and pulling upward slightly at the hairline on the neck. The result is an elongated and well-stacked spine that many students say they can maintain comfortably because their muscles are not strained.

Ray Bingham, 67, the presiding director of Oracle’s board, was referred to Ms. Gokhale last fall for his lower back pain. Mr. Bingham says he has found relief after using her methods and he diligently practices his newfound ways of sitting, walking and standing. “This is not an approach like physical therapy with a beginning and an end; this is a new way of being from now on,” Mr. Bingham said.

Ms. Gokhale encourages people to take the class with co-workers and family members, so that students can help remind each other to adjust their bodies. But even those who work alone find ways to remember their posture.

After doing a group workshop with Ms. Gokhale this year, Mr. Drudge says many things now remind him to make adjustments — seeing others with poor posture at Starbucks or the gym, passing by his reflection in a window, or sitting down in a chair to work.

“But I don’t beat myself up about it. When I’m aware of my posture, I fix it,” Mr. Drudge said. “And eventually, I think, it becomes who you are.”
303 2013-05-12 Finance ministers from leading global economies on Saturday avoided a public rift with Japan over policies driving down the value of its currency, while keeping up pressure on Germany to help lift growth in Europe.

At the end of two days of talks among the Group of 7 finance ministers outside London, other nations appeared to accept — at least for now — Japan’s explanation that its new monetary efforts were meant to stimulate its domestic economy, rather than to drive down the yen on international currency markets.

The chancellor of the Exchequer in Britain, George Osborne, said on Saturday that ministers from the G-7, made up of the United States, Germany, Japan, Britain, Italy, France and Canada, had reaffirmed earlier commitments on exchange rates and agreed to make sure policies are “oriented towards achieving domestic objectives.” Other officials described the talks as in-depth and positive. Last week, the dollar breached the 100-yen mark for the first time in over four years.

The two-day meeting, in Buckinghamshire, also focused on efforts to stem tax avoidance and on banking reform, and Mr. Osborne said it was “important to complete swiftly our work to ensure that no banks are too big to fail.” The officials discussed efforts to create a European banking union, which have slowed in recent months.

“We agreed on the importance of ensuring banks’ balance sheets are adequately capitalized to enable them to play their role in supporting the economy,” Mr. Osborne said.

The talks took place against a background of growing austerity fatigue in Europe, and concern that the region’s focus on reducing deficits and debt risked driving some economies into a downward spiral.
304 2013-05-12 He is wearing a sort of learner’s helmet, with a face shield and a mouth guard. You can barely see his face.

It is fitting that Crosby has been made more unrecognizable. Nearly a decade into the salary-cap era, the N.H.L. is in the midst of a parity period.

The last team to repeat as champion, the Detroit Red Wings, did so in 1997 and ’98. In the absence of the dynasty narrative, the N.H.L. markets the playoffs as “The Hunger Games” on ice.

A plot summary for “Hunger Games” on IMDB.com begins: “In a dystopian future, the totalitarian nation of Panem is divided between 12 districts and the Capitol. Each year, two young representatives from each district are selected by lottery to participate in the Hunger Games. Part entertainment, part brutal retribution for a past rebellion, the televised games are broadcast throughout Panem. The 24 participants are forced to eliminate their competitors while the citizens of Panem are required to watch.”

Well, maybe “required to watch” is a stretch.

“Anarchy rules down there,” the NBC analyst Daryl Reaugh told viewers during Game 3 of the bruising series between Los Angeles and St. Louis. This was only days after the Eller episode, and one had to wonder whether the league should have been toning down such talk.

Reaugh, like all ice-level color commentators for NBC, was standing “Inside the Glass,” meaning between the benches. Part of the network’s coverage since 2006, this feature is by far the greatest enhancement ever to hockey broadcasts, which is another way of saying I am getting to the age that I can no longer see the puck on my TV.

With the combatants on each side, commentators like Reaugh, Brian Engblom and Joe Micheletti, former players all, are credibly positioned to tell us that the situation is getting out of hand. They are not there to convey the game’s grace and choreography, a point of view that requires a higher vantage point. They are there to feel the speed and smell the blood, and to convey the possibility of extreme violence.

But the N.H.L. is prepared when that potential borders on barbarity, as with the Eller hit. The league makes videos explaining violations of Rule 48, soberly narrated by Brendan Shanahan, the league’s senior vice president for player safety; they are posted on NHL.com.

The 6-foot-4, 220-pound Gryba, in the heat of the game, received a five-minute interference penalty and a game misconduct for his hit on the 6-foot-2, 209-pound Eller. Some hard-core hockey pundits said the play did not even merit an interference penalty. In a Rule 48 video, Shanahan broke down the action with 13 replays of the point of impact, explaining patiently why Gryba’s route to the check, among other factors, made the hit illegal.

The league justified suspending Gryba for two games, even if the video left out a key plot point: the part where Eller was out cold and bleeding profusely.

Far from gratuitous, showing Eller’s fractured face would convey to players the risk of high-speed checks.

Writing on the Web site Grantland.com last week, the Hall of Fame goaltender Ken Dryden said what the league could not: Gryba had to be suspended because the violence and Eller’s injury were so viscerally affecting.

“The referees, Shanahan, the commentators, and the public understood somehow that what they felt was more true than what they knew,” Dryden, a lawyer, wrote. “As any good judge knows, if the facts make a fool of the law, adapt to the facts, or the facts and the law will make a fool of you.”

After the Eller hit, Montreal and Ottawa, separated by 125 miles, were expected to turn up the fireworks in a long series. The teams put on a good show, engaging in a “line brawl” in the third period of Game 3, and Canadiens Coach Michel Therrien called Senators Coach Paul MacLean classless.

But then everything calmed, as if a memo had gone out to everyone, and the Senators, who were playing better anyway, won the series, four games to one.
305 2013-05-12 Accusations of widespread vote irregularities in Karachi, the nation’s largest metropolis, led to the invalidation of results from dozens of polling places, officials said. Final results are likely to wait for days.

Even if Mr. Sharif faces no obstacles in forming a government, he will have to deal with a stalled economy, profound infrastructure failure and grave threats from an emboldened Taliban insurgency. Furthermore, he has promised to rein in American influence in Pakistan, leaving questions about the countries’ often-stormy relationship.

The election was Pakistan’s 10th since 1970 but the first in which a civilian government that has served a full five-year term is poised to peacefully hand power to another elected government.

Unlike previous elections, in which the military’s Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate was widely accused of vote manipulation and intimidation, this one offered little evidence of involvement by the military, which has ruled Pakistan directly for more than half its 66-year history.

Instead, the country was gripped by election fever, most of it driven by the contest between Mr. Sharif and Mr. Khan. In the final days of campaigning, the momentum appeared to be with Mr. Khan, who electrified voters with a series of mass rallies that tapped into a deep vein of support among young and middle-class Pakistanis in urban areas.

His ratings rose further after he fell nearly 15 feet to the ground at a rally in Lahore on Tuesday, badly injuring his back but winning widespread public sympathy.

But as the results flooded in late Saturday, and television projections gave Mr. Sharif up to 119 of the 268 elected seats on offer, against just 33 for Mr. Khan, promises of a revolutionary “tsunami” led by the former cricket player appeared to have vanished.

That result signaled a victory of sorts for old-style dynastic politics: the Sharifs have dominated Punjab, Pakistan’s most populous province, since the 1980s, and have cultivated voters for the past five years through development projects financed by the provincial government, which they controlled.

The other loser was President Asif Ali Zardari’s Pakistan Peoples Party, which led the last government but now seems destined to the opposition benches.

Mr. Khan, however, was poised to capture a valuable consolation prize, one with potentially sharp implications for American policy: control of the provincial government in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, along the Afghan border.

During his campaign rallies, Mr. Khan stridently said he would end C.I.A. drone strikes in the tribal belt, by ordering the Pakistani military to shoot down American aircraft if necessary. And he has said he believes that the Pakistani state should negotiate with Taliban insurgents, not fight them.

Still, it is Mr. Sharif who is likely to have the greatest impact on relations with the United States. A nationalist by inclination, Mr. Sharif, while publicly amenable to reaching out to the Americans, has also hinted that he was open to negotiating with Taliban rebels in the northwest — a stance that would greatly concern American officials as they try to withdraw from an Afghan war next door that has featured many cross-border attacks by those insurgents.

A conservative and a steel baron, Mr. Sharif was mentored in his political career by a military dictator, Gen. Mohammad Zia ul-Haq, in the mid-1980s. But he turned against the generals after his ouster at the hands of Gen. Pervez Musharraf in 1999, which resulted in a long exile in Saudi Arabia. Since then, many military men have viewed Mr. Sharif with suspicion.

He first came to American attention during Pakistan’s tense confrontation with India in 1999, when the possibility of a nuclear conflict was averted thanks to mediation by President Bill Clinton.

The election evoked a rare sense of enthusiasm for politics in Pakistan. About 4,670 candidates fought for 272 directly elected seats in Parliament, while almost 11,000 people battled for the four provincial assemblies. Aside from more traditional politicians, they included astrologers, transgender candidates, former models and the first female candidates in the tribal belt along the Afghan border.

Also running were dozens of candidates from Sunni sectarian groups, some with links to violent attacks on minority Shiites.

Mr. Khan’s campaign, in particular, had a carnival atmosphere because it drew so many young urban residents into politics, many of them first-time voters. In the wealthier neighborhoods of Lahore on Saturday, supporters danced in the streets and waved giant flags bearing Mr. Khan’s image.

But the sense of a vibrant, if flawed, democracy was tempered by Taliban attacks throughout the campaigning. The militant movement’s ability to derail campaigning, particularly in the mountainous northwest, was taken as a signal that it has evolved beyond its nihilistic guerrilla roots and has become a powerful political insurgency bent on upending Western-style democracy in Pakistan.

Campaigning was further marred Thursday when Ali Haider Gilani, 27, the son of former Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani, was shot and kidnapped by unidentified gunmen as he addressed a campaign event in the city of Multan, in southern Punjab Province.

Two guards who tried to protect Mr. Gilani were shot to death; the candidate was reportedly bleeding from a gunshot wound as he was dragged into a vehicle and driven away.

In a statement on Friday, the Taliban leader Hakimullah Mehsud ordered his commanders to attack the “infidel system” of democracy, warning that teams of suicide bombers would hit targets across the country.

At least 21 people were reported killed in attacks across Pakistan on Saturday, among them a gunfight and an attack on a polling place in the western province of Baluchistan and two explosions in the northwest, including in Peshawar, that injured several people. The deadly bombing in Karachi appeared to have been directed at a candidate from the Awami National Party, one of three secular-leaning parties that have borne the brunt of Taliban attacks that have killed at least 125 people in the last month.

The police established new checkpoints, and military helicopters patrolled the skies in Peshawar, the city that has been worst hit by militant violence over the years. Hospital workers were put on alert while billboards across the city asked residents to watch for suspicious activity.

After a slow start to voting, large numbers of voters emerged by midmorning, including many women. About 300 women in burqas stood in line outside the Lady Griffith High School, where policemen warned photographers not to take pictures of the women.

One of the women, Saba Iqbal, 35, a doctor, said she was going to vote for Mr. Khan’s Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf party.

“I never voted before,” she said, “but this time I want to be part of Imran Khan’s change.”

Mr. Zardari’s Pakistan Peoples Party found itself badly overshadowed in the race after a lackluster and leaderless campaign.

The party developed a poor reputation for governance as the economy faltered in recent years and ministers failed to reverse crippling power shortages. Among the party kingpins who lost their seats on Saturday was Raja Pervez Ashraf, the previous prime minister, who suffered a crushing loss to a candidate from Mr. Sharif’s party.

There were also signs of irregularities like those that tainted some past votes. At least one party, Jamaat-e-Islami, withdrew its candidates from Karachi and Hyderabad, protesting that the election was being rigged at various polling places.

Officials blamed the Muttahida Quami Movement party, which has traditionally dominated Karachi. A senior official with the Jamaat called for a peaceful strike on Monday to protest reported vote-rigging in the city.

Prominent officials of both Mr. Zardari’s and Mr. Sharif’s parties lodged similar accusations, saying they would reject some results in Karachi.

After polls closed, the Election Commission of Pakistan said that its staff had been threatened in the city, but that the voting had generally gone well.

Early on Sunday, The New York Times bureau chief in Pakistan, Declan Walsh, left the country three days after receiving a notice from the Interior Ministry that his visa had been canceled.

Mr. Walsh, who covered the elections on Saturday from Lahore, was accompanied to the airport by plainclothes intelligence agents, he said in a telephone interview. The men had closely paced him for hours.

He received the notice early Thursday morning from police officers outside his home in Islamabad. The order read in full: “It is informed that your visa is hereby canceled in view of your undesirable activities. You are therefore advised to leave the country within 72 hours.”

No further details of any wrongdoing were given, and Pakistani officials did not respond to repeated requests for more information.

The Times’s executive editor, Jill Abramson, filed a formal complaint with the Pakistani government on Friday, seeking Mr. Walsh’s reinstatement and noting that his expulsion struck a troubling note for a country celebrating an important milestone as a democracy.

“The expulsion of an established journalist, on the day of the voting, contradicts that impression,” she wrote.
306 2013-05-12 For current real estate purposes, the block where the Brooklyn rapper Notorious B.I.G., whose real name was Christopher Wallace, once sold crack is now well within the boundaries of swiftly gentrifying Clinton Hill, though it was at the edge of Bedford-Stuyvesant when he was growing up. Biggie, who was killed under still-mysterious circumstances in 1997, was just one of the many rappers to emerge from Brooklyn’s streets in the ’80s and ’90s. Including successful hardcore rappers, alternative hip-hop M.C.s, respected but obscure underground groups and some — like KRS-One and Gang Starr — who were arguably all of the above, the then-mean streets gave birth to an explosion of hip hop. Among the artists who lived in or hung out in this now gentrified corner of the borough: Not only Jay-Z, but also the Beastie Boys, Foxy Brown, Talib Kweli, Big Daddy Kane, Mos Def and L’il Kim.

For many, the word “Brooklyn” now evokes artisanal cheese rather than rap artists. The disconnect between brownstone Brooklyn’s past and present is jarring in the places where rappers grew up and boasted about surviving shootouts, but where cupcakes now reign. If you look hard enough, the rougher past might still be visible under the more recently applied gloss. And if you want to buy a piece of the action, Biggie’s childhood apartment, a three-bedroom walk-up, was recently listed by a division of Sotheby’s International Realty. Asking price: $725,000.
307 2013-05-12 For current real estate purposes, the block where the Brooklyn rapper Notorious B.I.G., whose real name was Christopher Wallace, once sold crack is now well within the boundaries of swiftly gentrifying Clinton Hill, though it was at the edge of Bedford-Stuyvesant when he was growing up. Biggie, who was killed under still-mysterious circumstances in 1997, was just one of the many rappers to emerge from Brooklyn’s streets in the ’80s and ’90s. Including successful hardcore rappers, alternative hip-hop M.C.s, respected but obscure underground groups and some — like KRS-One and Gang Starr — who were arguably all of the above, the then-mean streets gave birth to an explosion of hip hop. Among the artists who lived in or hung out in this now gentrified corner of the borough: Not only Jay-Z, but also the Beastie Boys, Foxy Brown, Talib Kweli, Big Daddy Kane, Mos Def and L’il Kim.

For many, the word “Brooklyn” now evokes artisanal cheese rather than rap artists. The disconnect between brownstone Brooklyn’s past and present is jarring in the places where rappers grew up and boasted about surviving shootouts, but where cupcakes now reign. If you look hard enough, the rougher past might still be visible under the more recently applied gloss. And if you want to buy a piece of the action, Biggie’s childhood apartment, a three-bedroom walk-up, was recently listed by a division of Sotheby’s International Realty. Asking price: $725,000.
308 2013-05-12 Credit: Prashanth Vishwanathan for The New York Times
309 2013-05-12 When I was 5 years old, my mother explained the world to me: “Beauty is pain,” she said, yanking my hair into submission with Dippity Do-slimed fingers and some bobby pins. If I didn’t sleep in scalp-scraping pin curls to look my best for Sunday school, the terrorists would win.

It’s the question at the heart of Paul Rudnick’s gleefully wacky and irreverent debut young adult novel, “Gorgeous.” Rudnick, of course, is one of our pre-­eminent humorists, the wit behind the tragicomic AIDS play “Jeffrey” and the laugh-out-loud columns in “If You Ask Me,” ostensibly by Libby Gelman-Waxner. In “Gorgeous,” Rudnick presents the quandary of poor, plain Becky Randle, recent high school graduate, cashier at the Super Save-A-Lot, whose sweet, obese mother has just died in their trailer, leaving her an orphan. Her mother’s one legacy, hidden in a shoe box, is the private phone number for the world’s most famous — and elusive — designer, Tom Kelly (a spot-on spoof of Calvin Klein).

Immediately, Becky is whisked away to New York City, where the mysterious Mr. Kelly offers her a bargain: He will make her the world’s most gorgeous woman; all she has to do is wear three of his dresses. Before you can say Faustian fashionista fairy tale, Becky has metamorphosed into stunning Rebecca — photographed for Vogue, tapped to star in a blockbuster film and fawned over by movie stars, the public and royalty alike. But do they love the perfect creation, Rebecca, or the struggling girl inside, Becky? And (with apologies to the Spice Girls) could the two become one?

Unfortunately, “Gorgeous” suffers from an identity crisis of its own, starting with a teenage heroine whose voice is well beyond her years and experience. Becky, who has never left her small town, describes walls of “pure white, unveined marble, with no visible seams,” “cream-colored damask pillows edged with gold rope” and a garden “hosting trembling camellias, beside black-enameled trellises tumbling with fat white roses, falling toward beds of white freesia and white tulips and lilies that resembled beckoning hands or exotic sex organs.” Unless she’s the only 18-year-old from East Trawley with a subscription to Architectural Digest, it seems unlikely she’d have such a fetishistic eye for detail. This lack of authenticity in voice makes for a bumpy beginning. One wonders if there was a marketing decision to take what is clearly an adult novel and shoehorn it into the highly attractive Y.A. category. At times, it also reads very much like the screenplay for an easily imagined movie version of itself.

But is it funny? Oh, hell’s yes.

Once Becky becomes Rebecca the novel also transforms, and readers are treated to Rudnick’s considerable talents as a satirist as he uproariously eviscerates our celebrity-mad, class-­conscious, appearance-obsessed, reality-TV-­vapid culture with puckish delight. Rebecca’s first stop is Hollywood, where stars have “a pet cause, Slovakian orphans or Icelandic voter registration or bipolar baby ocelots,” and a teen-idol-turned-movie-heartthrob becomes famous for playing “Orville Wright, the hunkier and more nakedly sensitive of the two pioneering brothers.” And when Becky/Rebecca meets her real-life Prince Charming, he explains the affront of her beauty to England: “You have no business here, children will point at you and start to sob, saying, ‘Mummy, I thought you told me that attractive people were extinct. By decree.’ ” Bons mots for which other writers happily would sell the kidneys of their enemies are tossed off with aplomb while also raising important questions about the ugliness of a society that treats the non-gorgeous and underprivileged with contempt.

Even if “Gorgeous,” unlike Becky Randle, never quite realizes its full potential, it is still a wicked good time, with moments both outlandish and touching. And as a summer beach read? Well, it’s perfect.
310 2013-05-12 Peggy Orenstein is accurate as to the medical science of detection and treatment of the major types of breast cancer. But for most women there is no amount of empirical evidence that will ever tilt the scales when emotion weighs down the other side. My diagnosis of ductal carcinoma in situ (D.C.I.S.) came just months after my husband — my children’s father — died. Asking a woman to ignore this uninvited presence in her body is asking her to live with daily stress. What of the studies correlating stress and ill health? CAROL GRETA, Des Moines

Having lost a friend to ovarian cancer, two more friends to lung cancer and esophageal cancer and my sister to complications relating to endometrial cancer, I felt almost guilty when I learned I had breast cancer — the “popular” cancer. And I discovered it because of a regular doctor’s visit, not a mammogram. I’ve never liked pink and refuse to join the breast-cancer glee club. When they handed me a pink T-shirt after I completed my radiation, I handed it back. The vast sums of money going to breast cancer “awareness” and screening would be much better spent on research into the causes, prevention and cure for all cancers. CLAUDIA O’NEILL, Carlisle, Pa., posted on nytimes.com

Thank you, Peggy Orenstein, for writing a provocative article, and for the observation that our fear of breast cancer “can be manipulated, packaged, marketed and sold, sometimes by the very forces that claim to support us.” Ever since my own breast-cancer diagnosis three years ago, I’ve wondered why there isn’t more attention devoted to prevention. Breast-cancer marketing makes it look like screening will save you. PAMELA BEERE BRIGGS, Los Angeles

Some of the criticisms of the breast-cancer movement are simply distractions, including the notion that the color pink somehow trivializes the disease, or that there’s too much awareness. Ubiquitous as it is, “pink” helps raise the money that has helped millions. And I meet many women who are still too unaware of their risk. As imperfect as mammography may be, it’s the most widely available tool that we have. We can do better, which is why Komen is financing research to develop blood or tissue tests for breast cancer. Those who stew from the sidelines should instead join the fight. Raise money for the research you think should be funded. Buy groceries for a woman who is sick. This is hard work. But it’s rewarding, and there’s plenty left to do. NANCY BRINKER, founder and C.E.O. of Susan G. Komen, Dallas

Having just finished reading Yudhijit Bhattacharjee’s absorbing article on Diederik Stapel, I am impelled to ask: Might there not exist faked science experiments that were so cleverly done years ago that they were published and are totally accepted by the scientific community to this day? AL GRAND, North Bellmore, N.Y.
311 2013-05-12 When you think of spring rolls, you probably envision the kind that are served as an appetizer at nearly every Thai restaurant in this country, a tangle of sometimes-identifiable vegetables rolled in a thin wrapper, deep-fried and served with a sweet dipping sauce.

But spring rolls go far beyond that. They’re found all across Asia, with wrappers, fillings and cooking techniques that differ from one country to the next. Fresh spring rolls, sometimes called summer rolls, are a staple in Vietnam. Most typically, they’re made of rice paper filled with rice vermicelli, cooked meat or shrimp, raw vegetables, basil, cilantro and mint. They’re wonderful, a rare combination of substance and light.

I’ve taken that as a jumping off point and included two other popular Asian wrappers — dried seaweed (nori) and lettuce — and a wide range of fillings to accompany the noodles and herbs. It’s the usual A+B+C format; mix and match in whatever way makes sense to you.

Some tips, starting with this: Don’t overstuff. Rice paper is pliable, but it will tear if you stretch it too thin.

And remember that before you even start to stuff, rice paper can be tricky. Soak a sheet of it briefly (10 seconds is about right) in a dish or skillet of hot water (110 degrees or so). Put it on a paper or dish towel so it doesn’t stick, then fill and roll as tightly as you can, folding in the sides like a burrito.
312 2013-05-12 And the Nominees Should Be ...

The theater critics of The New York Times make their Tony Award choices. For the “Should have been nominated” category, the critics were allowed to expand the potential nominees to Off Broadway productions that were ineligible for the Broadway-only Tonys. The ceremony for the 67th annual Tony Awards will be broadcast on June 9 on CBS.
313 2013-05-12 When you think of spring rolls, you probably envision the kind that are served as an appetizer at nearly every Thai restaurant in this country, a tangle of sometimes-identifiable vegetables rolled in a thin wrapper, deep-fried and served with a sweet dipping sauce.

But spring rolls go far beyond that. They’re found all across Asia, with wrappers, fillings and cooking techniques that differ from one country to the next. Fresh spring rolls, sometimes called summer rolls, are a staple in Vietnam. Most typically, they’re made of rice paper filled with rice vermicelli, cooked meat or shrimp, raw vegetables, basil, cilantro and mint. They’re wonderful, a rare combination of substance and light.

I’ve taken that as a jumping off point and included two other popular Asian wrappers — dried seaweed (nori) and lettuce — and a wide range of fillings to accompany the noodles and herbs. It’s the usual A+B+C format; mix and match in whatever way makes sense to you.

Some tips, starting with this: Don’t overstuff. Rice paper is pliable, but it will tear if you stretch it too thin.

And remember that before you even start to stuff, rice paper can be tricky. Soak a sheet of it briefly (10 seconds is about right) in a dish or skillet of hot water (110 degrees or so). Put it on a paper or dish towel so it doesn’t stick, then fill and roll as tightly as you can, folding in the sides like a burrito.
314 2013-05-12 Nafziger and DeGeest may have become experts in the rules and regulations, but many of the city’s vendors are constantly flummoxed. I spent one recent morning in the offices of the Street Vendor Project, a worker-advocacy group. As I sat with Sean Basinski, the group’s founder, a stream of vendors came in with pink tickets in their hands. One woman, an Ecuadorean immigrant who sells kebabs in Bushwick, , handed Basinski the six tickets that she and her husband received on a single afternoon. The total came to $2,850, which, she said, was much more than what she makes in a good week. She had a street-vendor’s license, she said, but didn’t understand that she also needed a separate permit for her cart.

The food-truck business, I realized, is a classic case of bureaucratic inertia. The city has a right to weigh the interests of food-market owners (who don’t want food trucks blocking their windows) and diners (who deserve to know that their street meat is edible, and harmless). But many of the rules governing location were written decades ago. In the ’80s, the city capped the number of carts and trucks at 3,000 (plus 1,000 more from April to October). Technically, a permit for a food cart or truck is not transferable, but Andrew Rigie, executive director of the N.Y.C. Hospitality Alliance, said that vendors regularly pay permit holders something like $15,000 to $20,000 to lease their certificates for two years. Legally, the permit holder becomes a junior partner in the new business.

As Rigie spoke, I was reminded of corrupt countries that I’ve visited, like and , where illogical and arbitrarily enforced rules create the wrong set of incentives. Perhaps the biggest winner in our current system is an obscure type of business known as an authorized commissary. By city law, every food cart and truck must visit a licensed commissary each day, where a set of mandated cleaning services can be performed. These commissaries also sell and rent carts and sell vendors food, soda, ice cream and . Rigie told me that many commissary owners make a bit extra by acting as informal brokers, facilitating the not-quite-legal trade of permits, which, by some estimates, is a $15 million-a-year business. Given their city-mandated stream of business, these commissaries have essentially formed an oligopoly. As a result, they have little incentive to compete aggressively by offering different kinds of food. No wonder we have an oversupply of hot dogs and knishes and nowhere near enough waffles and falafels.

Economically speaking, the problem is a standard one, known as the J-curve, which represents a downslope on a graph followed by a steep rise. Some sensible changes to the current food-vendor system may have long-term benefits for everyone, but the immediate impact could spell short-term losses for those who now profit from the system. A small group of New Yorkers — particularly owners of commissaries and physical restaurants — are highly motivated to lobby politicians not to change things. And most of the potential beneficiaries don’t realize they’re missing out. Many of the rest of us would love to have more varied food trucks, but we don’t care enough to pressure the City Council.

The one group that clearly suffers from the current system — the ticketed vendors — are often poorly paid immigrants without legal status and virtually no power. This sort of dynamic more or less sums up the economies of the third world. Economists generally agree that one of the distinguishing factors between rich countries and poor ones is that it is much easier to start businesses in rich countries. In , for example, it takes about 56 days and 13 separate procedures to get all the legal paperwork done to start a new business. In the United States, it’s an average of six days and six procedures. But if you want to open a mobile-food business in New York, it’s essentially like starting a business in Ecuador — and that’s if you can somehow arrange a permit.

After I left Prospect Park, I went home and began to read about , Ore. The city embraced food-truck and cart culture and has made the procedure for starting a business remarkably easy. I found a Web site listing the carts and trucks operating there: , Cajun, Central American, creperie, Cambodian, Cuban, Czech. And that’s just the C’s.
315 2013-05-13 Apple and Samsung Electronics are sucking up every penny of profit in the handset business. But Samsung&#x2019;s mobile business is growing fast, and the question is: Could it surpass Apple in profit next quarter?&#xa;   &#xa;Analysts at Canaccord...
316 2013-05-13 Fredrick L. McKissack, who quit a career in construction to join his wife in writing more than 100 children&#x2019;s books about African-American history, a piece of which his family owned as distinguished builders and architects, died on April 28...
317 2013-05-13 Liu Ping’s daughter and her lawyer say Ms. Liu is in detention after years of activism; most recently, she called on Chinese officials to disclose their assets....
318 2013-05-13 A woman needs a man like a fish needs a bicycle.

How refreshing it is to be reminded of this feminist battle cry not by a straight-out-of-central-casting cliché but by an early-20th-century nobleman whom we usually associate with boyish fantasies.

I’m referring, of course, to J. M. Barrie, the prolific Scottish novelist and playwright best known as the creator of Peter Pan. Barrie’s impressive oeuvre has been largely overshadowed by the success of his boy hero, but happily the Pearl Theater Company has chosen to revive a pair of his lesser-known, adult-oriented one-acts from 1914 in its latest production, “This Side of Neverland.”

These two droll delicacies involve resourceful women with surprise identities. And both tuck proto-feminist messages into gently barbed social commentary — about aristocratic fat cats, class anxiety and the entertainment industry — that still holds uncomfortably true today.

The first play, “Rosalind,” features a dowdy middle-aged woman (Rachel Botchan) cheerfully enjoying her dowdiness and middle age in a cozy cottage by the sea, having apparently shucked her corset and shorn her vanity long ago. Her layabout lifestyle is interrupted when an Eton-educated young man (Sean McNall) requests shelter from a rainstorm. Soon after being admitted, he spots a photo of his hostess’s daughter, who happens to be the famous actress he hopes to marry.

The boyish Mr. McNall is charming as the suitor, and even better as an intermittent narrator of sorts. He is listed in the program as both supporting characters and as Barrie himself, and in each one-act he frequently steps aside to declaim the playwright’s cheeky stage directions and character descriptions.
319 2013-05-13 If the words “audience participation” make you queasy, then “Everyone Was Chanting Your Name” probably isn’t for you. The lights are up at the Abrons Arts Center, and the rectangular seating arrangement is small enough to mean that everyone has a front-row seat: there’s nowhere to hide in this latest production by the rising young theater company 600 Highwaymen.

That said, this is charming participation, affording viewers a chance to do things like introduce, by way of renaming, the people sitting next to them. (I decided that my date should be called Venezuela.) One of the most resonant moments at Thursday’s roughly 75-minute show, written and directed by Abigail Browde and Michael Silverstone, came when the performer Matthew Scott Butterfield asked a string of direct and disarming questions to a random audience member, who happened to be Mark Russell, artistic director of the Under the Radar festival.

Mr. Russell’s unscripted responses, delivered without missing a beat, lent a simple and loaded poetry to the rhythmic back and forth, making it seem like a true exchange with the quietly commanding Mr. Butterfield. “What are TVs for?”

“To tell us things.” “Where do boats go in the nighttime?”

Mr. Russell, of course, is an old pro at theater — unlike many of the eight actors of various ages, ethnicities and stage experience in “Everyone,” which also features a chorus. (Rick Burkhardt is the production’s composer.) After establishing contact with their audience, the performers turned to one another, talking among themselves about matters big (death), small (smelly feet) and somewhere in between (existential hiking experiences).

“I was still at work and I got a call,” Susan Karpman said, answering the young Stayna Alexandre’s questions about the circumstances of her husband’s death. “I haven’t ever been able to know how they reached me, and I think about that a lot.”

The actors furrowed their brows with interest as they listened to one another, switching their positions throughout the white-walled space in precisely choreographed blocking. They were dressed in street clothes, another way of announcing, “We are ordinary people, talking of the stuff of everyone’s life.”

In delivery and affect these individuals reminded me a bit too much of Richard Maxwell’s New York City Players, without achieving the formal, deeply earned heft and finesse of Mr. Maxwell’s explorations. The result was that some of these cast members came uncomfortably close to being found objects, seemingly meant to fascinate in their unpolished state.
320 2013-05-13 Hess said it was prepared to support two of the five nominees put forward by the activist hedge fund Elliott Management, but the proposal was promptly rejected by Elliott....
321 2013-05-13 The Supreme Court is expected to rule soon in a case involving the University of Texas on the use of race and ethnicity in college and university admissions nationwide. California, Florida, Michigan and Washington have already outlawed affirmative action in admissions decisions.

If a conservative Supreme Court curtails the ability of universities to use race in admissions, could there still be a liberal result with greater emphasis on economic disadvantage in admissions, more financial aid for low-income students, better outreach and reduced emphasis on legacy preferences?
322 2013-05-13 It has one seat and looks like an evil transformer: meet the Lamborghini Egoista concept....
323 2013-05-13 Cantab Capital Partners has been turning heads in London and New York with a new fund that aggressively undercuts its competitors on fees....
324 2013-05-13 In recent years, Google’s annual developers conference has emphasized new hardware rather than software. But this year, the event won’t have much to show in terms of new products....
325 2013-05-13 Anthony Chiasson, a founder of Level Global Investors, was ordered to pay a $5 million fine and forfeit illegally obtained proceeds of as much as $2 million....
326 2013-05-13 Jim Delaney, chief operating officer at Marketwired, Toronto, was promoted to chief executive. He succeeds Michael Nowlan, who served as chief executive for 14 years and is to remain on the company’s board.

Michelle Dickens and Neil Saunders joined GSD&M, Austin, Tex., part of the Omnicom Group, in new posts, as vice presidents and planning directors. Ms. Dickens, who will led the agency’s strategic efforts on the Walgreens account, had been a partner and planning director at Ogilvy West, part of the Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide unit of WPP. Mr. Saunders, who will lead planning for the John Deere and Goodyear accounts as well as for new business and special assignments, had most recently worked as a freelance planner at many agencies.

Sabrina Galati and Kathryn Redekop joined the San Francisco office of Gyro in new posts. Ms. Galati becomes vice president and media director; she had most recently been media director at Moxie, Atlanta, part of the Publicis Groupe. Ms. Redekop becomes vice president for agency operations; she had most recently been vice president and group director for project management at the San Francisco office of Digitas, also part of Publicis.

John Gilles joined the San Francisco office of Code and Theory in a new post, director for new media. He had most recently been managing director at A Different Engine, San Francisco.

HHGregg, Indianapolis, chose two agencies owned by the Publicis Groupe to handle its creative and media accounts, which had both been handled by Zimmerman Advertising, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., part of the Omnicom Group. Spending was estimated at more than $100 million. Leo Burnett, Chicago, will handle the creative duties and Spark SMG, Chicago, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of Publicis, will handle the media duties.

John Henderson joined Answers, St. Louis, in a new post, senior vice president for sales. He had most recently been vice president for sales at TripAdvisor.

Horn, New York, hired two employees. They are Eric Kim, art director, and Brooke Murphy, vice president and creative director.

Eric Mower & Associates, Syracuse, hired three employees. They are Lindsey Ferrara, project manager; Kori Pensabene, media planner and buyer; and Kelly Russell, account supervisor.

Mark C. Newcomer joined Digitaria, San Diego, part of the JWT unit of WPP, as senior vice president for strategy. He succeeds Dan Jurek, who left, the agency said. Mr. Newcomer had been a digital strategy architect in the Boston office of Accenture.

Nancy Roth joined Marc USA as senior vice president and media director. She succeeds Dan Albert, who retired, the agency said. Ms. Roth had been senior vice president and media director at Spark SMG, Chicago, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group unit of the Publicis Groupe.

Khan Smith joined Vibrant Media, New York, in a new post, senior vice president for product. He had been vice president for product management and marketing at Akamai Technologies.

Mike Stocker and Robin Chrumka, senior vice presidents and group creative directors at McCann Detroit — the Birmingham, Mich., office of McCann Erickson Worldwide, part of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies — were promoted to executive vice presidents and co-executive creative directors. They assume duties from Matt Canzano, who has taken two posts: global executive creative director at Commonwealth — the agency operated by McCann Erickson that is devoted to the worldwide Chevrolet creative account — and chief creative officer at MRM Detroit, part of the MRM Worldwide division of the McCann Worldgroup.

Kim Tan joined Real Simple magazine, New York, part of the Time Inc. division of Time Warner, as vice president for marketing. She succeeds Sarah Kate Ellis, who left, the magazine said. Ms. Tan had been executive director for creative services at GQ magazine, New York, part of the Condé Nast unit of Advance Publications.

Julie Thompson, vice president and co-director for local broadcast at Doner, Southfield, Mich., part of MDC Partners, was promoted to a new post, senior vice president and director for local broadcast.

Sascha Uzzell joined Campfire, New York, in a new post, director for accounts. She had been vice president and senior director at Safari Sundays, New York.
327 2013-05-13 Why small businesses are wasting money on “big” data. How to procrastinate like a boss. The African-American start-up gap. And do you swear at the office?...
328 2013-05-13 The dean of admissions of St. Lawrence University discusses what admission officers look for while reviewing a student’s transcript and whether it’s better to have an A in an honors class or a B in an Advanced Placement class....
329 2013-05-13 Tax breaks and incentives currently devoted to luring companies to move could be better spent on nurturing new businesses....
330 2013-05-13 In the United States federal money laundering statutes apply to nearly every major transaction through which illegal profits are disguised to look legal. Typically, dirty money is laundered through the purchase of, say, a penthouse apartment, or mixed in with the earnings of a legitimate business like a restaurant. When gambling winnings or drug proceeds come out the other end, they appear as a real estate asset or business profit. They look clean.

Most of these industries have checks. Real estate titles and deeds at least require a name. Mortgage brokers, stockbrokers, casinos, banks and Western Union must report suspicious financial activity to the federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. Banks must report all transactions of $10,000 or more. Altogether, the network logs more than 15 million currency transactions each year that can be used to track dirty money, said Steve Hudak, a spokesman for the agency. The art market lacks these safeguards. Roll up a canvas and it is easy to stash or move between countries; prices can be raised or lowered by millions of dollars in a heartbeat; and the names of buyers and sellers tend to be guarded zealously, leaving law enforcement to guess who was involved, where the money came from and whether the price was suspicious.

Governments around the world have taken steps to bring illegal activity to light. In February, for instance, the European Commission passed rules requiring galleries to report anyone who pays for a work with more than 7,500 euros in cash (about $9,825), and to file suspicious-transaction reports.

The United States similarly requires all cash transactions of $10,000 or more to be reported. Still, laundering involving art tends to be handled case by case. Federal prosecutors, who usually discover art-related laundering through suspicious banking activity or illegal transport across borders, have worked closely with other countries and aggressively used their powers under civil law to confiscate art that they can establish is linked to a crime, even in the absence of a criminal conviction.

In a forthcoming book, “Money Laundering Through Art,” the Brazilian judge who presided over the Ferreira case, Fausto Martin De Sanctis, argues for more concerted international regulation, saying that if businesses like casinos and gem dealers must report suspicious financial activity to regulators, so should art dealers and auction houses.

But to dealers and their clients, secrecy is a crucial element of the art market’s mystique and practice. The Art Dealers Association of America dismissed the idea that using art to launder money was even a problem. “The issue is not an industrywide problem and really does not pertain to us,” said Lily Mitchem Pearsall, the association’s spokeswoman.

Law enforcement officials complain that dealers are playing down art’s role in a criminal underworld.

In Newark, federal prosecutors in a civil case recently announced the seizure of nearly $16 million in fine art photographs as part of a fraud and money laundering scheme that prosecutors say was engineered by Philip Rivkin, a Texas businessman.

The 2,200 photographs by masters like Alfred Stieglitz, Edward Weston and Edward Steichen — more than could fit into an 18-wheeler — were paid for, court papers say, with some of the $78 million that the authorities say Mr. Rivkin got from defrauding oil companies like Shell, Exxon, and Mobil. Mr. Rivkin, who has not been charged with any crimes, was last thought to be in Spain and had arranged to have the photos shipped there.

In New York, victims of the fraud and money laundering scams of the disbarred lawyer Marc Dreier are still in court fighting over art he bought with some of the $700 million stolen from hedge funds and investors. At the moment 28 works by artists like Matisse, Warhol, Rothko and Damien Hirst are being stored by the federal government.

“Hannibal” also sits in storage. That 1982 Basquiat work was part of a spectacular collection that Mr. Ferreira assembled while he controlled Banco Santos in Brazil. Some of these works had been exhibited at museums like the Guggenheim in New York.

Like most laundering cases involving art in the United States, this one was uncovered when the work was illegally transported into the country. In 2004 Mr. Ferreira’s financial empire, built partly on embezzled funds, collapsed, leaving $1 billion in debts. A court in São Paulo sentenced him in 2006 to 21 years in prison for bank fraud, tax evasion and money laundering, a conviction he is appealing. Before his arrest, however, more than $30 million of art owned by Mr. Ferreira and his wife, Márcia, was smuggled out of Brazil, Judge De Sanctis said.

According to court papers, “Hannibal” was bought for $1 million in 2004 by a Panamanian company called Broadening-Info Enterprises, which later tried to sell the painting for $5 million. It was sent to New York in 2007, passing through the hands of four shipping agents in two countries before landing at Kennedy.

Since merchandise valued at less than $200 may enter the United States without customs documentation, duty or tax, “Hannibal,” labeled worth $100, was cleared for entry even before the plane landed.

Philip Byler, Broadening’s lawyer in New York, said that the inaccurate invoices were merely a shortsighted attempt by the art dealer that Broadening hired to save importation fees. “It was not done with the intention of smuggling,” he said. He also challenged the Brazilian authorities’ claim, saying that “Hannibal” was legally purchased from a company owned by Mr. Ferreira’s wife.

Mr. Byler said that Broadening intends to appeal the forfeiture.
331 2013-05-13 The belief that historic monopolies will hold together just on the basis of inertia has proved to be wrong. Newspapers that have cut their operations beyond usefulness or quit delivering a daily print presence have suffered. The audience has to be earned every day.

Newspaper publishing will never return to the 30 percent plus margins it once had, but some people believe there is a business model. Warren E. Buffett thinks that a 10 percent return is reasonable, now that sale prices have sunk.

Clearly, commanding a market to change on a dime because it suits your business plan does not mean readers will obey. Just ask Advance Publications, owned by the Newhouse family, which is back to where it started in New Orleans with The Times-Picayune.

Except that the name Times-Picayune, which had stood for quality and civic constancy for decades, does not mean the same thing anymore. The vaunted Web site that was to be the lifeblood of the new enterprise remains a creaky mess, and the newsroom has been denuded of remarkably talented people.

Several of those people, including the two former managing editors of the newspapers, have gone to work for The Advocate, the Baton Rouge daily that has introduced a New Orleans edition. With a new, rich owner, it has taken aim at the market The Times-Picayune once owned.

Advance made its decisions up against some very dark trends in the business, but they were made with the dead-eyed arrogance of a monopolist in a much-changed world. Columbia Journalism Review described The Times-Picayune’s strategy of the last year as a “rolling disaster.”

It’s been a jaw-dropping blunder to watch. Advance misjudged the marketplace — the whole city and state went ballistic when the changes were announced — and failed to execute a modern digital strategy. Now it is in full retreat with new competition.

The company endlessly complicated what had been a simple proposition that has worked since the newspaper’s founding in 1837: deliver a printed bundle of its best efforts every day for a fixed price. The new distribution plan is hard to explain, but I will do my best.

On Wednesdays, Fridays and Sundays, a broadsheet called The Times-Picayune will be available for home delivery and on the newsstands for 75 cents. On Mondays, Tuesdays and Thursdays, a tabloid called TPStreet will be available only on newsstands for 75 cents.

In addition, a special electronic edition of TPStreet will be available to the three-day subscribers of the home-delivered newspaper. On Saturdays, there will be early print editions of the Sunday Times-Picayune with some breaking news and some Sunday content.

There’s more, but you get the idea — or not. It’s an array of products, frequencies and approaches that is difficult to explain, much less market.

The move was clearly defensive, unveiled the day before John Georges, the new owner of The Advocate, announced that it would expand its incursion into New Orleans. Since early fall, The Advocate has been publishing The New Orleans Advocate, with 20,000 subscribers.

Mr. Georges, a successful businessman who had less success running for governor of Louisiana and mayor of New Orleans, held a news conference on May 1 where he was accompanied by the governor, Bobby Jindal, and the mayor of New Orleans, Mitch Landrieu. It was an indication that the home team had chosen sides and the once-beloved Times-Picayune was on the wrong side of the field.

Last July, Senator David Vitter, a Republican from Louisiana, wrote a brutal letter to Steven Newhouse, the chairman of Advance.

“From a pure business perspective, you’re about to get smoked,” Mr. Vitter wrote. “The Advocate and others are moving in to fill the void you are creating. And TP subscribers, including me, will be eager to cheer them on by trading our subscriptions.”

The Advocate has never had the assets or the reputation that The Times-Picayune built up over the years, but the management of The Times-Picayune managed to create the one thing the paper never had before: actual competition.

“The Web site is still mysteriously frustrating for those who are interested in accessing the information we used to get in The Times-Picayune,” said Jed Horne, a former editor at The Times-Picayune who now works at The Lens, an online investigative news site in New Orleans.

“They promised a Tesla and it performs more like an Edsel,” he said. “Our hope is that we will be treated to an invigorating old-time press war between The Advocate and The Times-Picayune, but of course, it could end up being two dinosaurs fighting over the last mud hole on an overheated planet.”

Jim Amoss, the editor of Nola.com-The Times-Picayune, said he is proud of the various products the paper is producing and believed he had the talent and the support from ownership to compete for attention. He suggested that journalists are far more obsessed over the particulars than the audience is.

“I try to take the approach that readers’ habits are changing all of the time,” he said, “and while I share the gut reaction from journalists whose world has been turned upside down, the appetites for news here is as voracious as it has ever been.”

Still, after the deep personnel losses, Mr. Amoss is increasingly the captain of a ghost ship.

That fact was etched with some degree of finality last week when The Advocate raided The Times-Picayune and hired Gordon Russell, former city editor and investigations reporter; Martha Carr (no relation), a veteran of the city desk; and two city reporters, Claire Galofaro and Andrew Vanacore. Collectively, the departures represented what the Gambit, a local weekly, called a “shock-and-awe hiring.”

“I hate to see when talent walks out the door,” Mr. Amoss said. “But as I told the people here on the day that happened, I am incredibly proud of the people we have and the job we are doing.” (Nola.com’s excellent coverage of a mass shooting on Sunday that injured about 17 people at a parade in the city demonstrated that the site still plays an important local role.)

Nevertheless, the raid served as a reminder that The Times-Picayune’s former monopoly over talent was a thing of the past. That doesn’t mean that The Advocate will have anywhere near the impact on New Orleans that The Times-Picayune once did, or that it will magically defy the laws of contemporary publishing economics. But it does suggest that Advance’s belief that it had New Orleans to itself and could do as it wished was deeply mistaken.
332 2013-05-13 The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center concluded its Britten centennial series with a program at Alice Tully Hall on Friday night that, on paper, looked like a curious collection of pieces. In the first half there were four chamber works, three written when Britten was in his early 20s. One was composed when he was just 18: the Phantasy Quartet for oboe and strings, played dazzlingly by the virtuosic young oboist James Austin Smith and three members of the Orion String Quartet.

The concert ended with the formidable Sonata in C for Cello and Piano, which Britten wrote for his good friend Mstislav Rostropovich, who played the premiere, with Britten at the piano, in 1961 at the Aldeburgh Festival in England. It received a compelling performance on Friday by the cellist David Finckel and the pianist Wu Han, the society’s artistic directors.

There was just one vocal work, Canticle II: “Abraham and Isaac,” written in 1952. But this remarkable canticle, which is like an 18-minute mini-opera, was the dramatic core of a revealing program that drew a large and enthusiastic audience to the hall.

Canticle II tells the story of Abraham’s near-sacrifice of his beloved son, Isaac, at the command of God. Britten adapted the text not from Genesis but from a Chester Miracle Play from medieval times.

The canticle was first performed in 1952 by the contralto Kathleen Ferrier, the tenor Peter Pears (Britten’s lifelong partner) and the composer at the piano. The alto part can be taken by a countertenor, as it was here, with Daniel Taylor joining the superb tenor Anthony Dean Griffey and the accomplished young pianist Gloria Chien.

“Abraham and Isaac,” written one month after the 1951 premiere of Britten’s “Billy Budd,” can be seen as a companion piece to that epic opera. Both works tell of the sacrifice of an innocent, though the sailor Billy dies and Isaac is saved.
333 2013-05-13 ¶Audi of America, Herndon, Va., part of Volkswagen, selected Huge, Brooklyn, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, to handle its social media account. Spending was not disclosed. AKQA, part of WPP, remains the lead digital agency for the Audi brand. Audi also works with other agencies for assignments like advertising, media services and public relations.

¶Paul Renner joined Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners, New York, part of MDC Partners, in a new post, as executive creative director leading the creative efforts on the agency’s BMW account. He had been creative lead at another MDC agency in New York, Anomaly, working on ads for Budweiser beer.

¶The former soccer star Pelé was signed to serve as a “brand ambassador” for Volkswagen during the 2014 World Cup and the 2016 Summer Olympics, both of which will be held in his native Brazil. Financial terms were not disclosed. MediaCom Sport, part of the MediaCom division of GroupM, owned by WPP, helped to negotiate the agreement, along with Legends 10, the agency that represents Pelé.

¶Fjord, London, a design consultancy, agreed to be acquired by Accenture, New York. Financial terms were not disclosed.
334 2013-05-13 KANSAS CITY, Mo. — Yankees closer Mariano Rivera tried Sunday to defuse any fallout from a testy exchange the night before in which his fellow reliever Joba Chamberlain rebuked him in front of fans and reporters.

Rivera apologized to reporters, about an hour after Chamberlain took responsibility for the incident but played down its significance, saying it did not require an apology on his part.

“We are family here, and it happens,” Rivera said. “It’s something we take care of in house. Unfortunately it happened. We apologize. And we move on.”

Asked what he had to apologize for, Rivera said, “Because it shouldn’t happen.”

During batting practice Saturday, Rivera was conducting an interview in the dugout to discuss the meeting he had just had with several local families suffering hardships. Chamberlain was standing at the railing signing autographs and yelling up at family members in the stands to be heard over the public address system. But Rivera could not hear the questions being posed to him, so he asked Chamberlain to be quieter.

Immediately after the interview, Chamberlain warned Rivera, “Don’t ever shush me.” Initially Rivera thought Chamberlain was joking. But with a stern expression, he said again: “I’m serious. Don’t ever shush me.”

Early Sunday, Chamberlain acknowledged that the incident was his fault, but said he had not apologized to Rivera.
335 2013-05-13 But the accusations of I.R.S. abuse are sure to fuel an effort that appears to be uniting dispirited Republicans and their conservative political base: investigating Mr. Obama and his administration. Republicans are pushing a portrayal of an administration overreaching its authority and punishing its enemies.

“The bottom line is they used keywords to go after conservatives,” Representative of , the chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said Sunday on the NBC News program “Meet the Press.” He requested the inspector general’s audit along with another Republican, Representative Jim Jordan of . As an audit, it will not find blame or refer anyone for criminal prosecution.

Indicating the political stakes may be high, the White House spokesman released a statement on Sunday saying that the president “is concerned that the conduct of a small number of Internal Revenue Service employees may have fallen short” of “the highest levels of integrity” he expects for government officials.

Republicans got little political traction last year when they highlighted the operation by the , in which guns that were supposed to be tracked by the agency were instead lost to in .

But the Republican focus on attacks on officials in Benghazi, , got new life last week when Gregory Hicks, a State Department critic of the military’s response, told a House committee that he had been effectively demoted after lodging his criticism.

Congressional Republicans are also showcasing complaints from businesses on a near-daily basis about the cost of the president’s signature as it prepares to go into full effect in 2014.

The I.R.S. disclosures present Republican critics a golden opportunity. In 1998, Republicans on the Senate Finance Committee mounted a series of hearings on I.R.S. abuse, featuring taxpayers who portrayed the agency’s tax collectors as overzealous thugs with no respect for due process. Under I.R.S. rules, the agency could not defend itself against specific charges without the permission of the taxpayers who were making the accusations. The result was a one-sided media onslaught, and many of the cases would later prove to be considerably more complex than portrayed at the hearings.

In this case, it is Republicans in the House who will take the lead. Representative of , the majority leader, has promised a broad investigation, and Representative of , the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, said Friday that he would hold hearings soon.

There will be no shortage of witnesses.

“The I.R.S. has demonstrated the most disturbing, illegal and outrageous abuse of government power,” Jenny Beth Martin, national coordinator for Tea Party Patriots, said in a statement. “This deliberate targeting and harassment of Tea Party groups reaches a new low in illegal government activity and overreach.”

The I.R.S. has been under pressure from Democrats and campaign finance watchdogs for some time to crack down on abuse of the 501(c)4 tax exemption, which is supposed to go to organizations primarily promoting “social welfare” but which is routinely granted to overt political advocacy groups with little or no social welfare work.

obtained a 12-page timeline from the inspector general’s audit on Sunday. It suggests that the effort to single out Tea Party groups goes back to March 2010 when a special Determinations Unit in the office of the I.R.S. began searching tax-exemption applications that focused on groups on one side of the political spectrum, rather than broadly on political groups without a social-welfare mission.

The unit searched for groups using the names “Tea Party,” or “9/12 Project,” a movement begun by . The unit was also looking for “applications involving political sounding names” like or “Take Back the Country,” according to the document. That time frame brought the “Be On the Lookout” list back to the Tea Party movement’s early months, well before the movement helped fuel a historic Republican landslide in 2010.

On June 29, 2011, the document states, Ms. Lerner was briefed. By then the search appeared even more refined to conservative groups. Beyond “Tea Party,” “Patriots” and “9/12 Project,” the Cincinnati team was looking at issues of government spending, debt and taxes; educational efforts to “make America a better place to live”; and statements in the case file that “criticize how the country is being run.”

Ms. Lerner said Friday that the terms “Tea Party” and “Patriots” were used as a “shortcut” by the unit, not as a tool to single out any one political outlook. But the timeline suggests that the search went well beyond a few keywords. Over 100 applications had been identified by that briefing, using criteria with distinctly conservative undertones.

Just days later, on July 5, a conference call involving Ms. Lerner, a manager of the Determinations Unit and others broadened the search to take out its overt conservative bias. Instead, the lookout list was changed to “organizations involved with political, lobbying or advocacy for exemptions under 501(c)3 or 501(c)4,” a criterion much more in line with concerns that overt political advocates were receiving special tax protection.

But repeated revisions of the lookout list kept lapsing back to the original search. In January 2012, for instance, the search parameters were again revised to “political action-type organizations involved in limiting/expanding government, educating on the Constitution and Bill of Rights, social economic reform/movement,” criteria broad enough to ensnare liberal organizations as well but seemingly still honed in on the Tea Party.

On Feb. 29, 2012, just as a rash of news articles began publicizing complaints of harassment from Tea Party applicants, Ms. Lerner ordered the Cincinnati unit to stop issuing requests for additional information from the groups, the beginning of an extended process of pulling back the scrutiny.

But the scrutiny of the I.R.S. — and by extension the Obama administration — has likely just begun.
336 2013-05-14 A behind-the-scenes look at an Aix-en-Provence staging of Verdi’s “Traviata,” the impressionistic, handsomely shot “Becoming Traviata,” directed by Philippe Béziat, may not be fully satisfying as a documentary. But it has what any good movie needs: a star — the ever-game soprano Natalie Dessay.

Dressed in workout-style clothes that emphasize the hard, physical work of rehearsal, and wearing minimal makeup, Ms. Dessay, small, intense and theatrical — she seems most “natural” when performing, and sometimes stagy as herself — lets the camera observe her closely. We see her bra strap, the freckles on her back, her wrinkles and blemishes. For an opera star, for any kind of star, it’s remarkably unvain and oddly endearing.

Mr. Béziat doesn’t go in for talking heads or explanations. When not focused on the singers, he eavesdrops on the production as it “becomes”: we see the orchestra, conducted by Louis Langrée, rehearsing; costume designers cutting cloth; backdrops being fitted into place; singers and tech people milling around with the busy boredom of a set.

These scattershot parts hold your attention but feel like decorative fills between the real scenes. Those show the collaborative relationship between Ms. Dessay and the production’s director, Jean-François Sivadier.

There are no diva fits here or battles of artistic will, though at times you wish Mr. Sivadier would do less talking. (I kept thinking, she’s got it already, Jean-François.) Mr. Sivadier’s idea, radical only in the context of grand opera, is to strip down “La Traviata” — just one chandelier! — removing the fusty layers that obscure its emotional truths. Those truths are what he and Ms. Dessay work so hard to get at. If these rehearsals are any evidence, they made excellent headway.
337 2013-05-14 “So what are you in for?” Patricia asks Sean. These two are inmates, as Patricia might say, not in a jail but in a nursing home in Ireland. But what they’re in for — infirmity (Patricia) and old age (Sean) — matters less to the playwright Deirdre Kinahan in “These Halcyon Days” than who they are and who they were, their accommodations, regrets and rebellions.

Most of the action in this two-hander, directed by David Horan, takes place in the nursing home’s conservatory. Sean (Stephen Brennan), a former actor and a charmer, seems content to live out his final days in his wheelchair there, avoiding the passionate hurly-burly of life outside.

The arrival of Patricia (Anita Reeves), a newcomer with an eagerness to connect, jolts him out of his complacency and even out of his chair. It’s something of a gentle jolt: In Mr. Brennan’s finely etched performance, the dapper Sean does everything slowly and with some wobble, even a little soft shoe to “Shall We Dance?”

Ms. Reeves takes a while longer to bring into sharp focus Patricia, a retired schoolteacher full of tart complaints one moment and eager-to-please vulnerability the next. By the end of the play, though, she and Mr. Brennan seem evenly matched as they lob Ms. Kinahan’s dialogue back and forth, Patricia’s restless dissatisfaction rubbing up against Sean’s head-in-the-sand peaceability. (He cries “S.O.S.” when emotion intrudes on that peace.)

A melancholy hangs over “These Halcyon Days,” which slips now and again into the sentimental. Mostly, though, Sean and Patricia’s exchanges have a wryness that pushes back against that sadness. (Maree Kearns’s grim set, in shades of concrete gray, lends credence to Patricia’s talk of doing time and incarceration.)

As Sean and Patricia’s flirty friendship unfolds, Ms. Kinahan, whose more flamboyantly corrosive “Bog Boy” was at the same theater in 2011, lets the play’s themes — about identity and its persistence, even (or especially) as the end nears — unfold too, though not fully.
338 2013-05-14 The hedge fund manager Daniel Loeb’s demands of Sony could test Japan’s commitment to economic change....
339 2013-05-14 Zack Wheeler, expected to join the Mets this summer, will visit doctors in New York after experiencing soreness near his right clavicle....
340 2013-05-14 When T-Mobile USA first started offering the iPhone 5, it had the cheapest deal in town: $100 up front — half the cost of the iPhone on a rival network like AT&T or Verizon Wireless. But now the cost of the iPhone on T-Mobile is closer to the co...
341 2013-05-14 To justify Tesla’s high 2016 valuation multiple, revenue would need to keep growing at a fast clip, the author writes....
342 2013-05-14 The Senate Judiciary Committee continued to plow through amendments to an immigration overhaul bill on Tuesday, revisiting border security provisions before moving on to measures related to temporary guest worker programs....
343 2013-05-14 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
344 2013-05-14 Like the West, the East has one matchup of Original Six teams. But that is just one subplot as rivalries old and new are renewed....
345 2013-05-14 The production of “Julius Caesar,” first staged in London last year, will open to 2013-14 season at St. Ann’s Warehouse in Brooklyn....
346 2013-05-14 What he did was illegal. His crimes don’t really speak to the broader abortion debate....
347 2013-05-14 New rental bicycle-share stands on streets across Manhattan and Brooklyn are drawing mixed reactions among New Yorkers, from “not in my backyard” to “yes, in my backyard” and all points in between.
348 2013-05-14 Elliott Management offered on Tuesday to seat both its slate of five director nominees and the Hess Corporation’s slate, in what it said was a step toward completely remaking the energy company’s board....
349 2013-05-14 When I used the word “submissive” to describe my commitment to my family, I unleashed a tidal wave of fury....
350 2013-05-14 In a meeting of Central Division foes, Chicago faces Detroit in the playoffs for the 16th time, while Los Angeles and San Jose from the Pacific Division square off for the only the second time in the postseason....
351 2013-05-14 Part 3 in a brief history of the U.S. Open Cup....
352 2013-05-14 Mark Lyttleton, who left BlackRock in London in March, was arrested in the investigation, two people briefed on the matter said....
353 2013-05-14 One reason some big Internet retailers charge less is because they are not trying to make a profit — at least not yet....
354 2013-05-14 Daniel S. Loeb hand-delivered a letter on Tuesday to Sony’s chief executive that calls for a breakup of the entertainment and electronic colossus.
355 2013-05-14 Re “Owning a Dog Is Linked to Reduced Heart Risk” (news article, May 10):

One reason having a dog reduces stress in my home is that when someone gets angry — whether at ourselves or another person — our dog, Hobbes, thinks we’re angry at her, so we have to let go of our anger as soon as possible. Abandoned in our local park and perhaps formerly mistreated, she will duck her head, wrinkle her brow and cower in a corner or under furniture, trembling. To avoid this pitiful sight, we embrace a happier and thus healthier state.

The writer is the author of “Unleashed: The Wit and Wisdom of Calvin the Dog.”

And what about the heart risk for the dog owners’ neighbors, whose lives are interrupted, loudly and sometimes incessantly, by the dog’s barking? I have to stand a few seconds inside the elevator each time it arrives at my floor, while I wait for my neighbor’s dog to stop barking, or, more accurately in this particular case, shrieking.

I invite the scientists who did the dog ownership study to join me in the elevator and measure my stress levels as I ride up and as I stand there awaiting peace and quiet.
356 2013-05-14 The was absolutely correct to look into the abuse of the code by political organizations masquerading as “social welfare” groups over the last three years. The agency’s mistake — and it was a serious one — was focusing on groups with in their name or those criticizing how the country is run.

The I.R.S. should have used a neutral test to scrutinize every group seeking a tax exemption for “social welfare” activity — Democrat or Republican, conservative or liberal. Any group claiming tax-exempt status under Section 501(c)(4) of the internal revenue code can collect unlimited and undisclosed contributions, and many took in tens of millions. They are not supposed to spend the majority of their money on political activities, but the I.R.S. has rarely stopped the big ones from polluting the political system with unaccountable cash.

Last year, we supported the I.R.S. in aggressively asking Tea Party groups seeking this special tax status to prove that they were not political activists. We urged the I.R.S. to be just as tough on groups already claiming 501(c)(4) status — like Priorities USA, a Democratic group founded by former White House aides, as well as ’s group and Americans Elect, a third-party group — as on Tea Party chapters seeking tax-exempt status.

Unfortunately, it appears as though the I.R.S. looked only at conservative groups applying for the exemption, an inexcusable mistake given its power over individuals, nonprofits and corporations, and the potential for abuse. It’s important to point out, though, that this is a far cry from President ’s interest in intimidating his political enemies through selective audits of personal tax records. There is no evidence knew about the audits by the I.R.S. The groups involved were seeking not to pay taxes on large amounts of income by claiming that they promote social welfare. No one has an automatic right to this tax exemption; those seeking one should expect close scrutiny from the government to ensure it is not evading taxes.

For many years, however, the I.R.S. hasn’t provided it. Democratic groups were the first ones to start abusing their social-welfare tax status in the 2004 election; the Republicans followed suit and became the biggest players in this field beginning in 2008. Far bigger than any Tea Party group, Crossroads GPS nakedly violated the tax code by spending tens of millions on behalf of Republican candidates, claiming it wasn’t political because it ran only “issue ads.” It never lost its tax exemption.

In 2011, when the director of the agency’s tax-exempt division, Lois Lerner, heard about Tea Party applicants being singled out for review through keyword searches in applications, she ordered that the focus be broadened to all political or lobbying organizations seeking such an exemption, reported. Agency employees didn’t seem to get the message and kept the focus, wrongly, on conservative groups.

President Obama said on Monday that he learned of the practice only when the public did late last week, and he called it “outrageous.” He promised to take action against those involved — and needs to find out whether any political appointees ordered the practice or knew of it. Inevitably, the stumble by the I.R.S. will now be used by the Republicans as a point of attack. They are gleefully promising months of hearings, and the National Republican Congressional Committee is already trying to tarnish Democratic lawmakers with what it calls “the Obama administration’s use of the I.R.S. as a political tool.”
357 2013-05-14 Brooklyn was still an independent city when the Carroll Street Bridge vaulted over the Gowanus Canal, allowing horse-drawn wagons to travel among the area’s farms.

This relic of the late 19th century, which today connects Carroll Gardens with Park Slope, is not just one of the oldest of New York City’s 25 movable bridges, but also one of its quirkiest. As in a quaint New England covered bridge, its deck is made of thick boards, making it the city’s only wooden bridge that carries cars. The approaches are lined with cobblestones, many of them laid in 1889 when the bridge opened. It even features an old sign that warns: “Any Person Driving over this Bridge Faster than a Walk will be Subject to a Penalty of Five Dollars For Each Offence.”

Most distinctive of all is the way it opens to let boats on the canal pass. Rather than have two leaves rise skyward as a drawbridge does, or pivot 90 degrees like a swing bridge, the 26-foot-wide, 107-foot-long, one-way bridge is retracted diagonally onto the shore. With two hours’ notice, a city-employed bridge tender can be summoned to the bridge operator’s house, a small brick structure, on the increasingly rare occasions when the Carroll Street Bridge needs to be opened. There are only three other bridges like it in the country, including the Borden Avenue Bridge, which is in Queens and crosses Dutch Kills, a tributary of Newtown Creek.

As is true of the city’s other 787 bridges, the Carroll Street Bridge needs to be refreshed from time to time, with the added urgency this year of repairing the damage done by the flooding of Hurricane Sandy to its steel beams, motors and electrical control console. The storm flooded the bridge operator’s house with four and a half feet of water.

To start repairs, workers had to slide the bridge back manually last month and leave it in a fixed open position until the structural overhaul is completed — probably in four or five months. That will allow traffic on the water to pass freely, though transportation officials say vessels pass only about two dozen times a year, mostly when workers from the Department of Environmental Protection head north on the canal as they plan for a cleanup of its chemically contaminated waters.

As recently as the 1990s, the canal was a major waterway for paint factories, oil depots, sand and gravel suppliers, and warehouses alongside it, and the Carroll Street Bridge had to be opened 500 to 700 times a year, city officials said. But the numbers of openings declined sharply as industry left the area and artists and professionals moved in.
358 2013-05-14 Aggrievedness suits Demi Lovato well; always has. In her Disney days, she was — relatively speaking — the hellion of the crew, interested in abraded rock, tough-girl postures and smiles that cracked to reveal sneers.

Her years since teen-idol days have been chaotic: some great music and some not-so-great music, public struggles with bulimia and cutting, and in her latest phase, a role as empowerer in chief on the judging panel of “The X Factor.” Compared to the near-catatonic Britney Spears, Ms. Lovato was refreshingly direct, stern when she needed to be, but more often a source of wisdom. She was also a surprisingly good foil for Simon Cowell, whose signature disdain rolls off Ms. Lovato like so much rain and whom Ms. Lovato rightly sees as a bloated target, not an unstoppable monster.

She has dealt with far worse: that is clear from her music, which has been credibly tense and wounded almost from the start, a tone that continues unabated and even enhanced on “Demi,” her often impressive fourth album. Produced by the Suspex, the duo of Mitch Allan and Jason Evigan, it smartly abandons the pop-R&B songs of her last album, “Unbroken” — easily her shakiest to date — and recasts Ms. Lovato, rightly, in the Kelly Clarkson mold of big-throated singers who have had quite enough, thank you very much.

Unlike Ms. Clarkson, though, Ms. Lovato’s armor is not primarily vocal (though when she abandons the heavy vocal processing, she sings with firmness and an evident touch of vulnerability). “Heart Attack,” the single, has Ms. Clarkson’s familiar loud-soft pop-rock dynamics, matched with Ms. Lovato’s familiar self-doubt: “Never had trouble getting what I want/but when it comes to you I’m never good enough.” And throughout this album, from the chipper “Really Don’t Care” to the theatrical “Warrior,” to the bruising “Fire Starter,” she’s showing off her thick skin.

The production, too, is part of that skin, and it’s generally when it’s stripped down that Ms. Lovato confesses to any weaknesses, as on “Shouldn’t Come Back,” the latest in a suite of songs aimed at her estranged father, and also on the outstanding “In Case,” strikingly written by Priscilla Renea and Emanuel Kiriakou, which echoes the pomp of her 2011 hit “Skyscraper.” It places Ms. Lovato somewhere unusual: at someone else’s mercy — “Strong enough to leave you, but weak enough to need you.”
359 2013-05-14 Stocks changed little on Monday, pausing after hitting highs last week, though strength in health care shares helped keep declines in check.

The Dow Jones industrial average ended down 26.81 points, or 0.18 percent, at 15,091.68. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index was very slightly up, by 0.07 point, at 1,633.77. The Nasdaq composite index was up 2.21 points, or 0.06 percent, at 3,438.79.

The S.& P. 500 health care sector climbed 0.7 percent and was the day’s best performer.

Shares of the biopharmaceutical company Theravance jumped 17.9 percent, to $41.20, after the Irish drugmaker Elan agreed to a $1 billion deal to buy 21 percent of the royalties that Theravance receives from GlaxoSmithKline for its respiratory drugs.

Other big health sector gainers included Pfizer, up 2.3 percent, at $29.37; Gilead, up 3.1 percent, at $54.47; and Biogen Idec, up 4.5 percent, at $222.74. The day’s flat close came after a third straight week of gains on the major indexes, with both the Dow and S.& P. 500 setting record closing highs last week. The S.& P. 500 remains up 14.5 percent for the year so far.

While some analysts argue the long-term trend is still higher, many see momentum for stocks waning in the near term without more positive catalysts. Trading volume has been lighter than average, and volatility has been low in recent days.
360 2013-05-14 The loss of tropical rain forests is likely to reduce the energy output of hydroelectric projects in countries like Brazil that are investing billions of dollars to create power to support economic growth.

That is the conclusion of a group of experts whose findings, released Monday, run counter to the conventional understanding of deforestation’s impact on watersheds.

For years, scientists and engineers have noted an increase in river flows when the trees along streams are removed. The water in the soil, which would otherwise have been taken up by the tree roots and sent into the atmosphere, instead moves directly into streams and rivers.

At the same time, large areas of tropical forest actually create rain clouds as moisture from their leaves evaporates. So the elimination of swaths of these forests decreases rainfall. Cut down enough trees, the scientists argue, and the indirect impact of lost rainfall outweighs the direct impact of removing trees.

The study, published by The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, predicts that extensive deforestation will leave less water in the rivers to generate hydropower from projects like Belo Monte, which is under construction on the Xingu River in Brazil and will be the world’s third largest hydropower complex.
361 2013-05-14 “We don’t have time to be playing these kinds of political games here in Washington,” Mr. Obama said, saying any inquiry should be focused on the four people who died in Libya and how to prevent future attacks. “We dishonor them when we turn things like this into a political circus.”

“Suddenly, three days ago,” he added, “this gets spun up as if there’s something new to the story. There’s no ‘there’ there.”

A few hours later, at a Democratic fund-raiser in New York City, Mr. Obama bemoaned “hyper-partisanship in Washington” and said he had hoped that Republicans might have been more willing to cooperate after his re-election last year.

“My thinking was when we beat them in 2012 that might break the fever, and it’s not quite broken yet,” Mr. Obama told supporters at the five-story West Village home of the film mogul Harvey Weinstein. “But I am persistent. And I am staying at it.”

Mr. Obama’s comments about the I.R.S. left the agency and its leadership alone in answering charges that its employees had put added demands on Tea Party and other conservative groups applying for tax-exempt status from 2010 to 2012, even though none appeared to have been denied the classification.

Leaders of the House Ways and Means Committee from both parties announced that the acting director of the I.R.S., Steven T. Miller, as well as the Treasury Department’s inspector general for tax administration, would appear at the first hearing.

Scrutiny in Congress appeared to be focused on a detailed timeline of events from early 2010, when I.R.S. workers in Cincinnati began using key words like “Tea Party” and “patriot” to winnow out tax-exemption applicants, to last Friday, when the head of the I.R.S. division on tax-exempt organizations, Lois Lerner, apologized.

According to Senate Finance Committee aides, a “sensitive case report” on Tea Party targeting was sent from Cincinnati to Ms. Lerner and a subordinate on April 19, 2010, more than a year before previously thought.

On March 14, 2012, amid a rash of news reports alleging harassment by the I.R.S., a group of Republican senators sent a letter to Douglas Shulman, the I.R.S. commissioner at the time, asking whether Tea Party groups were being treated differently from other applicants for tax-exempt status. On April 26, 2012, Mr. Miller, then a deputy commissioner, wrote back and assured them that all applicants were receiving the same treatment.

But Congressional officials investigating the matter said that on March 29 of the same year, Mr. Miller had sent senior I.R.S. officials to Cincinnati to explore charges of harassment. That same day, the Treasury’s inspector general informed the agency that he was starting an investigation.

On April 26, 2012, Ms. Lerner’s superior, Joseph H. Grant, was briefed on the issue by officials returning from Cincinnati. Those officials briefed Mr. Miller on May 3 of that year, Congressional aides said Monday.

But lawmakers seeking information were kept in the dark. On June 18, Republican senators wrote to senior I.R.S. officials to request more information. Mr. Miller responded on Sept. 11, again saying nothing about the brewing controversy.

Meanwhile on Monday, the furor over the Benghazi attack showed few signs of abating. Representative Darrell Issa, the California Republican who heads the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said he was seeking testimony from Thomas R. Pickering, a former United States ambassador, and former Adm. Mike Mullen, the authors of report by a panel known as an accountability review board.

In a letter to the two, Mr. Issa cited accusations that their review was “incomplete” and “flawed.” Republicans in Congress have seized on testimony from senior State Department employees in Libya to raise new questions about the administration’s decisions before the attack and their explanations afterward.

“The president may want Americans to believe there’s no ‘there’ there,’ but he can’t hide from the facts,” said Brendan Buck, a spokesman for House Speaker John A. Boehner. “After four Americans died at the hands of terrorists, the administration was less than upfront about how it happened, and they continue to deny requests for further disclosures.”

Mr. Pickering, in a telephone interview on Monday, defended for the second straight day the five-member panel’s work, and said he and Admiral Mullen had agreed to testify before Mr. Issa’s committee.

Specifically, Mr. Pickering supported the panel’s decision not to question Hillary Rodham Clinton, the secretary of state at the time, when it discussed its preliminary findings with her toward the end the review, for which it interviewed more than 100 people.

Mrs. Clinton publicly took responsibility in October for the attack, but Mr. Pickering said the panel’s mandate was to assign accountability to specific individuals who decided security measures.

Mrs. Clinton immediately embraced the review’s 29 recommendations when the panel issued its report in December.

Since then, Congress has approved $1.4 billion to carry out the changes, which include hiring hundreds of additional diplomatic security agents and Marine guards at embassies, improving training for employees assigned to dangerous posts, and revamping deployment procedures to increase the number of experienced and well-trained people serving in high-risk posts.

Responding to Republican accusations that the administration had tried to cover up the fact that the Benghazi attacks were linked to terrorism, Mr. Obama noted that he sent the head of the National Counterterrorism Center to brief lawmakers three days after Susan Rice, the ambassador to the United Nations, appeared on Sunday-morning talk shows.

“Who executes some sort of cover-up or effort to tamp things down for three days?” he said. “This whole thing defies logic.”
362 2013-05-14 On Tuesday in Brussels, part of the debate will involve where depositors should be placed in the hierarchy of creditors in the future rules on shutting down failing banks. The main focus is what to do with depositors holding more than €100,000. Some countries want all E.U. members to have the same rules, while others want the flexibility to decide where savers should be in the hierarchy.

The president of the European Central Bank, Mario Draghi, said at his recent monthly news conference that ordinary depositors should be affected only after people who took risks by buying bonds in banks were forced to take losses. “If it can be avoided,” he said, “uninsured depositors should not be touched.”

In Cyprus, the issue came to a head after Germany and some other E.U. countries insisted on finding a new way to pay for a bailout of troubled Cypriot banks, which held large deposits from wealthy Russians. There were questions about the origins of some of the money, meaning it would be hard for Berlin to justify using German taxpayer funds to clean up Cyprus’s mess. In the end, E.U. and Cypriot officials agreed that wealthy depositors would effectively have to help foot the cleanup bill.

The president of the Cypriot central bank, Panicos Demetriades, said last week that most of the depositors who lost money under the deposit-seizure system were foreigners. “Seventy percent of the value of the deposits concerned overseas residents, leaving Cypriot households and businesses unaffected to a greater extent than was possibly expected,” he said at a news conference.

Cypriot and Brussels officials had abandoned an earlier, even more controversial plan to skim a percentage of insured deposits — those under €100,000 in Cypriot banks. They pulled back that proposal after it set off tremors in global financial markets and raised the specter of a run on euro zone banks because of concerns that even insured deposits might not be safe.

It was still in an emergency atmosphere, though, that Cyprus imposed capital controls in March to prevent a flood of money from leaving banks operating there. Those restrictions have been eased gradually since then, but remain in place for all but a handful of foreign banks, despite initial promises by the government that the strictures might be quickly removed.

The entire episode has dealt a sharp blow to the Cypriot economy.

With restrictions on how much money individuals and businesses can withdraw or transfer from their Cypriot bank accounts, spending has been sharply curtailed. The economy, already in recession, is expected to contract at least 12.5 percent in the next two years. Unemployment, at 12 percent, is forecast to rise as the shrinking of the outsize banking system, demanded by Cyprus’s creditors, curtails lending and leads to job losses.

The bailout has also set off geopolitical tension over a trove of natural gas recently found in Cypriot waters, which the country’s creditors hope could be tapped in the future to help pay off the country’s loans. Last week, the E.U. commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, Olli Rehn, pressed for the four-decade-old division of Cyprus into Greek and Turkish territories to be abolished, saying reunification would give Cyprus a “major boost to economic and social development.”

Such a move could also pave the way for faster exploration of extensive natural gas reserves off the coast of Cyprus, which Turkey, Russia and the European Union are all interested in pursuing.

Cyprus has been divided since 1974, after Turkey invaded the north. Turkish officials have warned the Cypriot government in recent months not to proceed with gas extraction unilaterally, saying it would risk further inflaming political tension with Ankara.
363 2013-05-15 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
364 2013-05-15 A report cited in a Bloomberg News article about the dangers of iPhones on planes refers to one pilot’s “speculation,” and not to any scientific evidence....
365 2013-05-15 The Times’s Bill Carter talks with Jimmy Kimmel about the Upfronts, “Jimmy Kimmel Live” and his upcoming plans.
366 2013-05-15 Under pressure from Wall Street lobbyists, federal regulators will soften a rule intended to rein in banks’ domination of a shadowy but lucrative market....
367 2013-05-15 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
368 2013-05-15 A House hearing’s tensest exchange ended with the attorney general lashing back at a Republican congressman’s accusations about the Justice Department’s motives in not releasing some records on a nominee....
369 2013-05-15 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
370 2013-05-15 Flu infection during pregnancy may increase the risk for bipolar disorder in offspring, according to a new report....
371 2013-05-15 As the search giant adds to its portfolio of products meant for devices that run Apple’s iOS operating system, it also adds more ways to collect data about customers....
372 2013-05-15 Alex Brown spoke with Graham Motion about his preparations for Animal Kingdom’s final race, the Queen Anne Stakes next month at Ascot....
373 2013-05-15 The grand doors of the Musée National Picasso Paris will remain closed for another summer, extending a nearly four-year wait for its reopening....
374 2013-05-15 Despite Turkey’s recent ambitions to be a major player in the region, its actual reach is limited....
375 2013-05-15 Why would dad-blogger conferences merit more respect from traditional news media than those attended primarily by moms?...
376 2013-05-15 General Motors and the Nissan Motor Company announced that Chevrolet would be putting its regalia upon some Nissan NV200 vans....
377 2013-05-15 The Justice Department said Apple was the “ringmaster” in a conspiracy to fix e-books prices, a more direct leadership role than portrayed in the department’s April 2012 antitrust lawsuit....
378 2013-05-15 LOS ANGELES (AP) — Jonathan Quick made 35 saves in his sixth career playoff shutout, and the Los Angeles Kings opened their second-round series with a 2-0 victory over the San Jose Sharks on Tuesday night.

Slava Voynov and Mike Richards each had a goal and an assist in the defending Stanley Cup champions’ 11th straight victory at Staples Center since March.

With yet another dominant playoff performance by Quick, Los Angeles opened the N.H.L.’s fourth all-California playoff series with its fifth straight victory after an 0-2 start to its title defense.

The Kings’ Conn Smythe Trophy winner allowed just 10 goals in the six-game first round against St. Louis before frustrating the Sharks, whose superior speed and passing produced nothing.

Antti Niemi stopped 18 shots for the Sharks, who swept Vancouver out of the first round.
379 2013-05-15 Until recently the painting had hung in the Hyatt Hotel in Chicago and was being sold by the Hyatt Hotels Corporation. The Pritzker family, majority shareholders in the hotel chain, had bought the work at Sotheby’s in London in 1998 for what was then a record price for Mr. Richter at auction, $3.6 million. On Tuesday night, Donald L. Bryant, a New York businessman, bought it for $33 million or $37.1 million with fees. (It had been estimated to fetch $30 million to $40 million.) It was a record price, beating the $34.2 million set at Sotheby’s in London in October for an abstract canvas that had belonged to Eric Clapton. After the sale Mr. Bryant said he planned to hang it in a house he is building in the Napa Valley.

The evening also included some expensive casualties. There was not a bid in sight for “Study for Portrait of P.L.,” a 1962 painting of Peter Lacy, Francis Bacon’s drug-addicted, alcoholic lover at the time. The painting had been estimated to sell for $30 million to $40 million.

Yves Klein’s “Sculpture éponge bleue sans titre, SE 168,” from 1959, one of the artist’s sponge sculptures soaked in his signature shade of blue, was thought to bring around $20 million. It ended up selling to Sandy Rower, who runs the Calder Foundation, for $19.5 million, or $22 million with fees.

Clyfford Still’s Abstract Expressionist paintings have never won the kind of big numbers that paintings by Pollock have, but on Tuesday night “PH-21,” from 1962, performed well. The canvas of floating forms of jagged colors, was thought to bring $16 million to $20 million. A telephone bidder ended up paying $18.5 million for it, or $20.8 million with fees.

The same price was paid for Pollock’s “Blue Unconscious,” a 1946 painting from his series “Sounds in the Grass.” Sold by an unidentified Texas collector who had bought it in 1965 for $45,000, it ended up in the hands of David Zwirner, a New York dealer, who paid $18.5 million, or $20.8 million with fees.

Prime examples from Diebenkorn’s “Ocean Park” series are usually in demand. “Ocean Park #46,” from 1971, expected to sell for $6 million to $8 million, was snapped up by a telephone bidder for $9.75 million or $11 million with fees.

A group of works by Jeff Koons belonging to Peter Brant, the Connecticut newsprint magnate, brought mixed results. A 1980 work, “The New Jeff Koons,” that had been expected to sell for $2.5 million to $3.5 million was bought by Philippe Ségalot, the Manhattan dealer, for $8.2 million, or $9.4 million with fees. But one of his seminal installations from the 1980s, four vacuum cleaners encased in acrylic, failed to sell. It had been expected to bring $10 million to $15 million.

After the sale, as the audience was milling on the sidewalk outside Sotheby’s, there was talk of who bought “Onement,” the star work of the evening. Many dealers guessed it was Miuccia Prada, the famed fashion designer and collector. Others simply commented on the top prices.
380 2013-05-15 Several years ago, prompted by one of those shootings, the New Orleans police raised security fees for marching clubs so high that it seemed the tradition of these parades, put on for more than a century by black working-class New Orleanians, might be seriously curtailed, or end for good.

This time seems as if it will be different. Since Sunday afternoon, the mayor and the police chief have repeatedly and emphatically divorced the shooting from the occasion that it ruined. They have called the parades a crucial part of the city’s culture and even a bulwark against its seemingly ceaseless violence, an argument marchers have been making for years.

“The layers of this thing are really important, and that’s to understand what the origin of the violence is, what it’s connected to and what it’s not connected to,” said Mayor , who has long made a case for what he calls the city’s cultural economy. “This didn’t have anything to do with second lines, and it didn’t have anything to do with the rich cultural heritage of New Orleans.”

Sunday’s event was a so-called second line parade, the “second line” referring to all those who join in along the route and follow behind the band, making more of a rolling party than the kind of parade one simply watches. They take place nearly every Sunday between September and May, in the poor and working-class back streets of the city.

Such parades are put on by social aid and pleasure clubs, which function as inner-city relief societies, delivering groceries to shut-ins, buying football uniforms and pooling resources to pay for life’s unexpected invoices, like medical emergencies and funeral costs. They also put on parades once a year in the neighborhood they represent, with the brass bands, Technicolor suits and stops at drinking holes along the way. The parades can cost thousands of dollars, even tens of thousands.

For decades, they happened off the bureaucratic radar, without permits and largely unknown to anyone not directly attached to the marchers. For many New Orleanians — black and white — the parades were, and still are, surrounded by an air of menace.

“I never got involved in second lines,” said Willie Green, the drummer for the Neville Brothers, who grew up just outside New Orleans. “It was always too scary for me.”

But club members, who mostly live in the neighborhoods they parade in, are intimately familiar with how dangerous New Orleans can be. Edward Buckner, the president of the Original Big 7, lost a 26-year-old son to gun violence four years ago. Joe Henry, who started the Original Pigeontown Steppers, parades in a wheelchair, having been shot on Mardi Gras Day when he was 12. A cousin of his was murdered.

“The list goes on and on,” said Tamara Jackson, the president of the city’s Social Aid and Pleasure Club Task Force, who lost her father to gun violence. Neither Ms. Jackson nor others deny that violence has marred the parades, but they say this is a function of where the parades take place.

“We try to nurture our neighborhoods, but that’s also where drugs and crime exist,” she said. Before her club’s given Sunday, she walks the route with a plea: “If anyone has scores to settle, please don’t settle them around our parade.”

In the first years after , when the city was reconstituting itself and violence was spiking, the police and the clubs tangled. After shootings near or at two processions in 2006, the police raised fees to 5 and in some cases 10 times the $750 charged for Mardi Gras parades. The second line clubs sued.

While this battle went on, however, the city was changing.

Outsiders moved here with an appetite for an amorphous thing one might call “authentic New Orleans,” and they met residents newly appreciative of traditions that, without effort, could have died out. The series “Treme” gave a primer to people who had no idea what a second line was. Parade routes were publicized online, so outsiders no longer needed to rely on luck or inside connections to know where they were happening.

Journalists also championed second line culture, among the most ardent of them a woman named Deborah Cotton, who arrived from months before the storm but began diligently chronicling the city’s street traditions, mostly for The Gambit, the city’s alternative weekly. She also has fought claims that violence is tied to second lines, pointing out that shootings have happened at Mardi Gras parades with few people making a similar connection.

The second line clubs themselves, which had reached an agreement with the city over the fees, began banding together more closely. In a post-Katrina survey conducted by Frederick Weil, a professor of sociology at , members of social aid clubs were found to be “more civically active, service oriented, and trusting than even the rich or well educated.”

Negotiations with the city and the police began to go more smoothly under the Landrieu administration, club members said.

“We actually sit down with the members and we negotiate,” said Cmdr. Bob Bardy of the Police Department’s Sixth District, a part of town where relationships with parade promoters had historically been tense.

Richard Anderson, president of the Single Men social aid club, said that Commander Bardy had suggested that his club’s parade avoid certain bad spots altogether or that it keep moving in dangerous places where they might have planned a stop. The strategy has largely worked.

“We hadn’t had a shooting in a while,” Mr. Anderson said.

One of the most seriously injured in the shooting, Ms. Cotton remains in the hospital in critical but stable condition. Mr. Buckner, for his part, wants to march again, after some time for healing. “It breaks your heart, man,” he said.
381 2013-05-15 Apple is the only defendant left in the lawsuit after five publishing companies — Hachette, HarperCollins, Macmillan, Penguin and Simon & Schuster — agreed last year and earlier this year to settle the charges.

Tom Neumayr, a spokesman for Apple, said the company did not conspire to fix prices on e-books.

“We helped transform the e-book market with the introduction of the iBookstore in 2010, bringing consumers an expanded selection of e-books and delivering innovative new features,” Mr. Neumayr said. “The market has been thriving and innovating since Apple’s entry, and we look forward to going to trial to defend ourselves and move forward.”

The Justice Department’s latest filings in the case also paint a picture of an Apple willing to use its power in mobile apps to strong-arm reluctant partners. That is especially evident in the accusations the department makes about Apple’s dealings with Random House, the last major publisher to resist striking an e-books deal with Apple.

In July 2010, Mr. Jobs, Apple’s former chief executive, told the chief executive of Random House, Markus Dohle, that the publisher would suffer a loss of support from Apple if it held out much longer, according to an account of the conversation provided by Mr. Dohle in the filing. Two months later, Apple threatened to block an e-book application by Random House from appearing in Apple’s App Store because it had not agreed to a deal with Apple, the filing said.

After Random House finally agreed to a contract on Jan. 18, 2011, Eddy Cue, the Apple executive in charge of its e-books deals, sent an e-mail to Mr. Jobs attributing the publisher’s capitulation, in part, to “the fact that I prevented an app from Random House from going live in the app store,” the filing reads.

The newly released documents also quote David Shanks, chief executive of Penguin, as saying that Apple was the “facilitator and go-between” for the publishing companies in arranging the agreement.

And the documents quote Mr. Dohle as saying that an Apple executive counseled him that the publishing company could threaten to withhold e-books from Amazon to force Amazon to accept the higher prices. Random House was not named as a defendant in the lawsuit.

The price-fixing suit charges that Apple advised publishers to move from a wholesale pricing model, which let retailers charge what they wanted, to a system that allowed publishers to set their own e-book prices, a model known as agency pricing.

The publishers said Amazon was pricing e-books below their actual cost, putting financial pressure on the publishers that they said would drive them out of business. The dispute underscored the extent to which competition from digital retailers like Amazon was transforming the traditional book industry.

Three of the publishers, HarperCollins, Simon & Schuster and Hachette, settled with the government immediately. Penguin, Macmillan and Apple originally decided to fight the charges. But in December, to clear the way for its merger with Random House, Penguin settled, followed by Macmillan in February.

The settlements call for the publishers to lift restrictions imposed on discounting and other promotions by e-book retailers. The companies are also prohibited from entering into new agreements with similar restrictions until December 2014.

The publishers must also notify the government in advance about any e-book ventures they plan with each other, and they are prohibited for five years from agreeing to any kind of so-called most-favored-nation clause with any retailer, which establishes that no other retailer is allowed to sell e-books for a lower price.
382 2013-05-15 One fundamental way of seeing how your retirement kitty would suffer in a downturn is to vet the various risk measures of the funds or stocks in the portfolio.

For example, you can look at how the fund or stock performed during the worst years, focusing on the 2008 collapse. This is pretty simple to look up online with services like Yahoo Finance or Morningstar.

You can also look at an index fund that represents what you hold as a benchmark. For instance, one proxy for large-cap stocks is the SPDR S.& P. 500 exchange-traded fund, which lost nearly 38 percent in 2008. Could a catastrophic drop like that happen again? It’s possible, but the more important question is, could you afford to lose nearly $4 out of $10 invested? Would you have enough time to recover from such a loss before you retired? Picking the right benchmark is important to see that you’re comparing apples to apples.

Another useful indicator for mutual and exchange-traded funds, found on Morningstar.com, is an upside or downside capture ratio. When a fund rises, the upside capture ratio will tell you what percentage of the market’s gain it’s capturing. A good number is close to 100 percent. On the downside, when the market drops, you want that percentage to be smaller.

Individual stocks with long-term records can also be vetted for downside risk. Prices can be incredibly volatile — particularly for big blue chips — so pay attention to total return, which is the price and the dividend payment. Exxon Mobil, for example, one of the largest United States stocks by market capitalization, has had a seesaw price history as the market either favored or backed away from energy stocks. The company’ stock lost 13 percent in 2008 and 12 percent in 2009, but has appreciated over the last three years.

For long-term stockholders, drops can offer opportunities, so downside risk isn’t an absolute measure. If you plan to hold a dividend-paying stock like Exxon Mobil, you can always buy more shares at a lower price when it falls, at no commission if you’re in the dividend-reinvestment plan that most big companies offer. But don’t put most of your money in any single company, including your employer’s. You’ll compound risk in one holding, and there’s no need to do that when you can own mutual or exchange-traded funds that own hundreds of securities.

Once you get an idea of how much a stock or fund can lose during a market crash, you need an idea of past and present volatility, which is measured by standard deviation, a statistic that shows variation from an average. High standard deviations reflect high price volatility and generally greater risk.

Advisers can examine your portfolio and measure standard deviation. Or you can find those numbers online. In any case, flag funds or stocks that have high standard deviations. Do they represent large portions of your portfolio? Do you have a good idea of what might happen to your wealth if they go south?

“The standard way of measuring risk is standard deviation,” said Derek Tharp, a financial planner with Mote Wealth Management in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. When working with advisers, he cautioned investors to “look at what you want to accomplish — how do you want to get you there?”

Doing a risk budget, that is, a written statement of how much risk you’re willing to take, is part of the portfolio-planning process. You can always go for higher returns, but this always means accepting more risk. Your risk budget should be part of what money managers call an “investment policy statement.” This is a set of written objectives for risk, return and long-term goals. Are you focused mainly on income, appreciation or a combination? These are essential details for your statement.

Experienced planners, Mr. Tharp suggested, can run analyses to see if your portfolio will realize your goals. A planner should be able to give you the probability of having enough to retire comfortably with your asset mix.

What if you or your adviser discovers that you’re taking on too much risk? Simple adjustments can be made to reallocate to less risky assets, like bonds. While the value of stocks can evaporate in a bad downturn, bonds deliver an interest stream and the principal invested, regardless of what the market is doing.

But that doesn’t mean you can’t lose money in bonds. The worst year in the last 20 years for intermediate-term bonds was 1994, when they lost 5 percent in total return, according to Ibbotson Associates (though you don’t lose money in government bonds if you hold to maturity). The next-worst year was a 2 percent loss in 2009. So ratcheting up your bond holdings is generally good for capital preservation.

Just keep an eye on credit risk, diversification and inflation. You can still lose money in bonds if the issuer defaults, or you could miss out on a better opportunity if interest rates rise. You are most vulnerable in bond mutual funds or if you trade them.

Ultimately, creating a prudent portfolio means having a conversation. Talk about it with your advisers, spouse or partner at least once a year.

What you can expect in any given year is a subject that Cathy Pareto, a financial planner in Coral Gables, Fla., says she discusses with clients: “Plot out a chart. What’s a realistic range of returns in actual dollar amounts? When markets are doing well, everyone wants to take on more risk. But what is your specific objective?”

When you sift through all of your portfolio vulnerabilities, you need to ask two key questions: What’s the worst case for what I own, and would a loss based on that dire case hurt my lifestyle in the future?

If you’re a long-term investor or won’t need your nest egg for decades, you have some flexibility. If not, you need to make some changes to reduce risk. If you see the amount of risk you have will imperil your future lifestyle, now’s the time to take action: don’t wait for the market to tank to spur you to action.
383 2013-05-15 Re “China’s Military Is Accused by U.S. in Cyberattacks” (front page, May 7):

When China tries to steal corporations’ technology secrets, companies turn to the United States government for protection. Yet Microsoft, Google, Apple, Hewlett-Packard and many others avoid paying American taxes by keeping hundreds of billions sheltered in “offshore” no-tax havens, according to the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations.

Ironically, the billions they avoid paying could support our country’s cybersecurity, among so many other services and subsidies on which big business depends. Robert M. Morgenthau, the former Manhattan district attorney, called some of this sheltering “outright tax fraud.” The rest might be legal, but it’s a slap in the face.

Maybe cyberbullied businesses should ask their offshore hosts to respond. Imagine the Cayman Islands, the British Virgin Islands, Gibraltar, Luxembourg, Switzerland and Bahrain getting tough with Red Army intelligence!

Seriously, loyalty isn’t just a word for others. Furthermore, “American” corporations that offshore profits shouldn’t count on our being suckers forever.
384 2013-05-15 Top-ranked Serena Williams brushed aside Laura Robson, 6-2, 6-2, a day after Robson had beaten her sister, Venus, in the Italian Open in Rome. Simona Halep of Romania upset fourth-seeded Agnieszka Radwanska, 6-7 (2), 6-1, 6-2, and the former No. 1 Caroline Wozniacki lost to 48th-ranked Bojana Jovanovski, 2-6, 6-4, 7-6 (5). On the men’s side, top-ranked Novak Djokovic quickly overcame an early break to cruise past a Spanish qualifier, Albert Montañés, 6-2, 6-3.
385 2013-05-15 A report by the Treasury inspector general for tax administration, delivered to Congress on Tuesday evening, offered new details on the scope and duration of the Internal Revenue Service’s effort to target conservative non-profit groups for scrutiny.
386 2013-05-15 SAN FRANCISCO — Gov. Jerry Brown on Tuesday proposed a smaller budget than projected earlier this year and repeatedly cautioned against new spending, disappointing Democratic lawmakers who had hoped that rising state tax revenues would finance social programs after years of austerity.

California has benefited from an unexpected $4.5 billion windfall in personal income tax receipts this year. But Mr. Brown, in announcing his revised budget in Sacramento, said that the federal government’s elimination of a 2 percent payroll tax reduction and the spending cuts caused by the federal sequestration would lead to only a $2.8 billion surplus in the current fiscal year. In the next fiscal year, starting in July, the governor said, the state will collect $1.3 billion less than expected.

The revised budget of $96.4 billion for the next fiscal year — a $1.3 billion reduction in spending, compared with the $97.7 billion plan announced in January — includes increased spending for education. Schools will benefit from a temporary tax increase on the wealthy that voters approved last fall; the tax, approved under Proposition 30, helped the state close its chronic budget deficit.

But Mr. Brown said it was “not the time to break out the Champagne,” and emphasized the importance of prudent spending.

“Everybody wants to see more spending,” Mr. Brown said of his budget, which now goes to the Legislature. “That’s what this place is — it’s a big spending machine. You need something? Come here and see if you can get it. But I’m the backstop at the end.”

Some of the governor’s fellow Democrats, who control both the Senate and the Assembly, have called for reinstating many social programs cut or reduced in recent years.
387 2013-05-15 Timeline: The Playbook of an Activist Hedge Fund Manager

Daniel Loeb, the activist hedge fund manager of Third Point, has developed a reputation for aggressive tactics. He is unafraid to take big positions in companies and demand change in very public ways.
388 2013-05-15 LONDON — The authorities on Tuesday raided the offices of several oil companies and an industry data provider as part of a broader inquiry by the European Commission into potential price manipulation.

In what the commission termed ‘'unannounced inspections,'’ investigators descended on some European offices of BP, Royal Dutch Shell and Platts, a division of the McGraw-Hill Companies that specializes in providing pricing for the oil industry. The European authorities are looking into whether the companies may have ‘'colluded in reporting distorted prices'’ in an effort ‘'to manipulate the published prices of a number of oil and biofuel products.'’

All of the companies said they were cooperating with the inquiry.

Shell said it was “assisting the European Commission in an inquiry into trading activities.” A spokesman said that the company’s offices in Rotterdam and London were “visited.”

Platts said that the European Commission had “undertaken a review” at its offices, at Canary Wharf in London. The authorities also raided BP’s oil trading operations on the lower floors of the same building. BP said in a statement that the company was “subject to an investigation.”

Regulators in Europe and the United States have long been worried about the system by which oil and gas prices are set, which can affect the prices consumers pay as well as costs for airline and trucking companies. The concerns reached a frenzied pitch in 2008 when oil prices hit record highs and then quickly plunged. At the time, lawmakers in the United States and elsewhere questioned whether the prices were being distorted.
389 2013-05-16 Dellin Betances, once a top 50 prospect, has struggled at Class AAA, but after a couple of encouraging outings the Yankees called him up to shore up their overtaxed bullpen....
390 2013-05-16 The Consumer Protection Finance Bureau has created a Spanish language Web site....
391 2013-05-16 Jon Mooallem’s first book explores our complicated relationship to endangered species....
392 2013-05-16 The Commodity Futures Trading Commission voted in favor of new rules to shine a light on risky Wall Street trading, but the commissioners softened a crucial aspect of the plan in the face of lobbying pressure from banks....
393 2013-05-16 This week’s Poetry Pairing matches “Prayer for a Bamboo-Flowering Famine” by Karen An-Hwei Lee with the book review “Fighting for Scraps” by Pankaj Mishra....
394 2013-05-16 Vikram Pandit, the former Citigroup chief executive, and his business partner Hari Aiyar have bought a 3 percent stake in the Indian firm JM Financial....
395 2013-05-16 The behavior of some individuals at the tax agency is inexcusable. What it reveals about our election laws is worse....
396 2013-05-16 The United States upset the defending champion Russia, 8-3, in the quarterfinals at the International Ice Hockey Federation world championships. The Americans will play Switzerland in the semifinals....
397 2013-05-16 Three best play nominees — “Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike,” “The Assembled Parties” and “Lucky Guy” — extended their runs....
398 2013-05-16 HONG KONG — A ceiling at a small factory making shoes on the outskirts of the capital of Cambodia collapsed on Thursday morning, killing at least two workers and underlining global worries about factory safety in poor countries.

Ken Loo, the secretary general of the Garment Manufacturers Association in Cambodia, said that steel beams holding up a concrete-floored storage area at mezzanine height between two building had given way. In addition to the two dead, nine workers were injured, three of them severely, by falling pieces of concrete, Mr. Loo said.

The collapse outside the capital, Phnom Penh, came 22 days after the collapse of a garment factory complex in Bangladesh killed at least 1,127 people and prompted an international outcry for multinational retailers to assume more responsibility for the safety of workers at their suppliers.

Multinationals have been looking to Cambodia as one of several countries that could be alternatives to Bangladesh. Cambodia has some of the lowest pay in Asia, with workers earning $120 a month in salary and benefits before overtime. That compares with just $37 in Bangladesh.

Bruce Rockowitz, the group president and chief executive at Hong Kong-based Li & Fung, one of the world’s largest sourcing companies, said in a telephone interview on Wednesday, before the Cambodian factory collapse, that the collapse of the factory in Dhaka had already taught multinationals that visual inspections of factories’ structural stability was not enough.

“We visually always inspected them, but you need true engineers,” he said.
399 2013-05-16 A study of cancer patients in Washington State has found they were twice as likely to file for bankruptcy as people without cancer. The study, led by researchers from the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle, linked bankruptcy court records and information from the regional cancer registry on about 200,000 cancer patients, and compared them with a similar group of people from the same area who did not have cancer. Young people with cancer experienced the highest bankruptcy rates, the study found, up to 10 times the rate of bankruptcy filings among older age groups.
400 2013-05-16 Agencies like Platts and privately held Argus Media have carved out a niche tracking those transactions and developing benchmarks for pricing oil. The agencies establish prices by phoning and messaging traders. Platts supplements that information by tallying up the bids and offers submitted to an internal trading system.

Their influence is extensive. Total, the French oil giant, estimated last year that 75 to 80 percent of crude oil and refined product transactions were linked to the prices published by such agencies.

Consumers and companies are heavily reliant on the market, which affects a range of things, from the price at the pump to the cost of an airline ticket to supermarket bills.

A refinery, which turns crude oil into products like gasoline and diesel, might use a Platts price as a reference for the crude oil it buys to run through its system. The refinery then turns the oil into gasoline, which is sold to consumers and companies.

Mr. Fry’s company buys 36,000 liters of diesel fuel every eight to 10 days either from a big company like BP or a wholesaler. It is the biggest expense, accounting for 35 to 40 percent of the company’s costs. When a trucking company goes out of business, fuel prices are usually “the reason they had to close doors,” said Mr. Fry, who is also chairman of the Road Haulage Association, an industry group in Britain.

Authorities are worried that oil companies may be distorting prices.

The European inquiry comes as regulators broadly look into whether traders and others are manipulating a variety of markets. Over the last year, several big banks have faced multibillion-dollar fines for their role in rigging a critical benchmark known as the London interbank offered rate, or Libor.

“Regulatory scrutiny of all price-setting mechanisms has probably increased as a result of the Libor scandal, especially when some see processes like energy price reporting as subjective and prone to manipulation,” said Roderick Bruce, an analyst at IHS, a market research firm in London.

Platts operates in an unusual way, by relying on an internal trading system to help determine prices. Market participants, like oil companies, financial institutions, and airlines, submit bids and offers and reports of transactions. During the last 30 to 45 minutes of the day, those submissions come at a frenzied pace.

The big question is whether the system can be manipulated.

Critics contend that the number of trades through the Platts system can be sufficiently low, allowing for potential manipulation. As a result, they say that oil companies could have an impact on prices by submitting low or high bids, especially at the end of the day.

The “process has faced criticism because it concentrates price discovery in a small assessment time window, perhaps making it more prone to potential manipulation,” Mr. Bruce said.

Platts defends its process, saying it strictly controls the window process to avoid “dramatic and sudden price movements.” Editors, the company added, also have discretion to take into account cargo size and other factors that may affect the markets.

If history is any indication, it may be hard to determine whether companies manipulated the markets.

The International Organization of Securities Commissions, a regulation group, investigated the role of the agencies for two years starting in 2010. In the end, the group settled for a new compliance code, which is largely voluntary.

Last year, the Road Haulage Association tried to persuade Britain’s competition regulator to investigate. But the group said it was told that there was insufficient evidence to support the claim.

“All of our members will be pleased that someone is now looking into the issue,” said Mr. Fry. “We hope it will lead to a fairer price of fuel.”
401 2013-05-16 Credit: Andri Tambunan for The New York Times
402 2013-05-16 Linebacker Rolando McClain is retiring from the N.F.L. McClain, 23,  played three seasons with the Oakland Raiders before signing a one-year contract with Baltimore as a free agent on April 12. Ten days after signing with the Ravens, he was arrested in Decatur, Ala., and charged with disorderly conduct and resisting arrest. It was the third time McClain was arrested in Decatur since 2011.
403 2013-05-16 ISTANBUL (Reuters) — A Turkish appeals court ruled Wednesday that the killers of an ethnic Armenian journalist did not act alone but were part of a criminal conspiracy, paving the way for a retrial of the case, which has gripped Turkey for years.

Judges in Ankara, the capital, overturned a lower criminal court’s judgment from last year that only two people, now serving prison sentences, were behind the 2007 murder of the journalist, Hrant Dink, said Fethiye Cetin, a lawyer for Mr. Dink’s family.

“We have strong evidence that state officials were involved in the conspiracy, and that evidence is even in the prosecutor’s report,” Ms. Cetin said. “Prosecutors must reopen the case.”

Mr. Dink was shot to death in broad daylight outside the offices of his newspaper, Agos, in central Istanbul on Jan. 19, 2007. His death prompted huge street rallies and public outpourings of grief.

The killing led to suspicions of a deep-rooted conspiracy in a country that has seen dozens of political murders.

It also prompted criticism from the European Union, which Turkey hopes to join, over the country’s treatment of minorities. Turkey’s population is overwhelmingly Muslim.
404 2013-05-16 WASHINGTON (AP) — Sharp drops in fuel and food costs reduced a measure of wholesale prices in April by the most in three years. Outside those volatile categories, inflation stayed tame.

The producer price index, which measures price changes before they reach the consumer, fell a seasonally adjusted 0.7 percent in April from March, the Labor Department said Wednesday. It was the second straight monthly decline and the steepest since February 2010.

Lower inflation means the Federal Reserve has more leeway to continue its aggressive policies to bolster economic growth. If there were signs that inflation was picking up, the Fed might be forced to raise interest rates.

The index declined largely because gas prices dropped 6 percent, and the price of home heating oil fell by the most in almost four years.

Food prices also fell 0.8 percent, the most since May 2011. Half of the decline was because of lower vegetable prices, a highly volatile category. Meat prices dropped 2.3 percent.

Excluding the volatile food and energy categories, core prices ticked up 0.1 percent in April, from March. Pharmaceutical costs also rose 0.1 percent.
405 2013-05-16 Cambodia says the Denver Art Museum, the Cleveland Museum of Art and the Norton Simon Museum in Pasadena, Calif., each have one statue connected to Prasat Chen. Two other statues, a pair of kneeling attendants that had flanked a doorway in the Met’s Southeast Asian galleries for two decades, are to be returned next month.

A sixth statue, which is the subject of a federal court case in New York, is held by Sotheby’s, which withdrew it from auction in 2011 after a complaint from Cambodia. The United States Justice Department is seeking to seize the statue on Cambodia’s behalf, but Sotheby’s officials say it was acquired legally by its owner.

The auction house said it does not believe the Met’s decision will affect its case. Experts say, however, that the return may create pressure on the other three museums to review the provenance of their statues.

“If other museums are confronted with the kind of evidence that the Met was provided, I believe the Met’s actions will serve as an appropriate example for them to follow,” said Stephen K. Urice, an associate professor and expert on cultural heritage and museum law at the University of Miami School of Law.

The Norton Simon Museum says it is cooperating with federal officials who inquired about its statue as part of their investigation into the provenance of the sculpture held by Sotheby’s.

Cambodian officials have yet to contact the Denver or Cleveland museums, but said they plan to. Spokesmen for those museums said they could not comment fully until an actual claim on their statues was made.

There has been no suggestion of impropriety on the part of any of the museums, nor have the museums acknowledged, as the Met has, that the items come from Prasat Chen and their provenance might be questionable. Many collectors of Khmer art say that their efforts and those of museums actually served to safeguard statues that might have been destroyed during Cambodia’s war years.

The Met’s decision came after two officials visited Cambodia and came away convinced that its items were looted from Prasat Chen, part of a vast complex in the jungle called Koh Ker. It was the seat of the Khmer empire from 928 to 944 but is now a remote collection of ruins surrounding a 120-foot pyramid about 200 miles northeast of Phnom Penh.

Eric Bourdonneau, an archaeologist and expert on Koh Ker with the French School of Asian Studies who works in Cambodia, said he made the connection to the Denver and Cleveland items in part after studying the remnants of the statues — bases and feet — at the temple. “It was deliberate destruction by modern looters whose spoils fed the art market,” he said.

Cambodians say the statues in Denver of the god Rama and in Cleveland of the monkey god Hanuman came from an ensemble that once depicted a fierce fracas between monkey kings as recounted in the Ramayana, a Hindu epic. The statue of the battling monkeys, Valin and Sugriva, is in a national museum in Cambodia’s capital, Phnom Penh.

Kristy Bassuener, a spokeswoman for the Denver Art Museum, said the Rama statue was acquired in 1986 with money from several patrons. She said the museum does not have any other information about its provenance.

“The museum is committed to further research regarding the history and provenance of objects in its collection,” she said. “If the museum learns new facts related to this piece, I would be happy to share that information.”

Asked about the Hanuman’s provenance, David Franklin, director of the Cleveland Museum of Art, pointed to information on the museum’s Web site, which says the figure was acquired in 1982 with money from by the Leonard C. Hanna Jr. Fund.

“It is the museum’s policy not to discuss publicly the substance of these types of inquiries,” he added, “unless and until there is a definitive resolution.”

The fund did not respond to a request for comment.

Experts say the Norton Simon statue, known as the Bhima, or wrestler, comes from a second Prasat Chen grouping, about 200 feet away, that depicts his brawl with Duryodhana, as told in the Hindu epic the Mahabharata. The Duryodhana statue is now held by Sotheby’s.

The Met’s two statues represent brothers of Bhima who knelt in attendance during the fight. The Met’s statues were acquired in four pieces from donors 1987 to 1992. Those statues, plus the one from Sotheby’s, are known to have gone through a London art dealer, Spink & Son, in the early 1970s.

Cambodian officials say the broken pedestals of all those sculptures were left in the ground by the looters.

Norton Simon, who died in 1993, bought the Bhima in 1976 from a Madison Avenue Asian art dealer and gave it to the museum in 1980. “In more than three decades, the foundation’s ownership of the sculpture has never been questioned,” the museum said in a statement.

The Sotheby’s statue was shipped to New York in 2010 to be sold at auction by its Belgian owner, Decia Ruspoli di Poggio Suasa. Her husband, who has since died, acquired it in 1975 and Sotheby’s estimated its value to be $2 million to $3 million.

Experts on antiquities trafficking say teams of bandits used ox carts to trundle their trophies along jungle trails and into Thailand, 15 miles north, during Cambodia’s war years.

In their case against Sotheby’s, lawyers for the United States attorney’s office for the Southern District of New York say the statue was one of many shipped illicitly from Bangkok to the United States and Europe after 1970.

Sotheby’s says the statue was legally purchased in good faith from a reputable London auction house in 1975 and it “denies knowledge that the Duryodhana statue was stolen.”

Cambodia’s secretary of state, Chan Tani, said the looting of Koh Ker is especially crushing because its style of statuary exists nowhere else.

“They are part of our soul as a nation,” he said, “and they were brutally stolen.”
406 2013-05-16 MOSCOW — Moscow officials rejected on Wednesday an application by gay rights advocates to hold a parade this month, saying the event could undermine a campaign to instill patriotic values in the city’s youths.

The refusal emphasized the Russian government’s support for a wave of legislation in cities across the country banning “homosexual propaganda.”

The Moscow decision was issued just days after a man was killed in a savage attack that investigators said was motivated by homophobia in the city of Volgograd in southern Russia.

“According to Russian legislation, we must work clearly and consistently on maintaining morality, oriented toward the teaching of patriotism in the growing generation, and not toward incomprehensible aspirations,” said Aleksei Mayorov, the director of regional safety for the city administration, in a statement carried by the Interfax news agency.

“In our opinion,” Mr. Mayorov continued, “there is no demand for these kinds of events in the city.”

Critics of a proposed federal ban on “homosexual propaganda,” an umbrella term for rallies and other public demonstrations by gay rights advocates, say the local laws are already encouraging hate crimes against gay men.
407 2013-05-16 Melvin Hernandez, a spokesman for the district attorney’s office, said prosecutors would most likely either appeal the charges’ dismissal or seek a new indictment of Officer Haste, who is on desk assignment.

“It cannot be said more forcefully that we disagree with the court,” Mr. Hernandez said in a statement.

Officer Haste’s lawyer, Stuart London, said the communications to Officer Haste from other officers about whether Mr. Graham was armed went to the heart of the case. Mr. London said the prosecution’s instructions clearly influenced the grand jurors.

“I am gratified that the judge read the grand jury minutes and is concerned as he is in the integrity of the process,” he said.

Many of the events surrounding the shooting are not disputed.

On Feb. 2, 2012, a narcotics unit was staking out a bodega in the Wakefield neighborhood of the Bronx, acting on a tip that drug sales were taking place there. Two officers reported that they had witnessed three men leaving the bodega together and that they had a gun, according to a police account and radio communications made public.

At Officer Haste’s arraignment, Mr. London said that his client had heard officers say, “I see the weapon; it’s on him.” Officer Haste chased one of the men, Mr. Graham, into the family’s home on East 229th Street and confronted him in a small bathroom.

The officer fatally shot Mr. Graham, but it later became clear that Mr. Graham had been unarmed. The prosecution accused Officer Haste of acting without proper caution.

The indictment of Officer Haste was the first time a police officer had been charged in a case involving an on-duty police shooting since three detectives were charged in March 2007 in the death of Sean Bell, who was shot outside a strip club in Queens shortly before he was to be married.

The case quickly became a flash point in a debate about the proper use of police force and it stoked racial tensions that had seemed to fade in recent years.

To Mr. Graham’s friends, relatives and members of his community, the shooting was a deadly manifestation of how the police handle cases involving young black men. Mr. Graham was black. Officer Haste is white.

To Officer Haste’s fellow officers and supporters, a chaotic whirlwind of events had resulted in a tragic shooting, but one that did not involve criminality.

The dismissal of the charges does not address the question of whether Officer Haste acted properly.

Instead, Justice Barrett concluded that the prosecution’s instructions left the impression that communications between Officer Haste and other officers should not be considered important.

Mr. London said that, as the judge noted, the prosecutors may not have intended to have the jurors ignore the communications, but the “sloppy wording” of the instructions they presented the grand jury left them confused.

“The judge issued a very common-sense approach in analyzing the instructions given to the grand jury,” he said. “And if you use the common-sense approach, the instructions are basically saying the communication from other officers to Officer Haste was not important.”

Whether those communications were accurate or not, they clearly affected Officer Haste’s thinking when he confronted Mr. Graham and are central to his defense, Mr. London said.

As Officer Haste left the courtroom he was greeted by angry shouts of “murderer.” Mr. London said Officer Haste was saddened by Mr. Graham’s death.

“He is certainly remorseful that he had to take a life that day,” he said.
408 2013-05-16 European regulators on Wednesday approved the Warner Music Group’s purchase of the Parlophone Label Group, tying up one of the last loose ends from the $4.1 billion breakup of EMI.

The Universal Music Group, the world’s largest music company, agreed in late 2011 to pay $1.9 billion for EMI’s recorded music assets, including music by the Beatles and the Beach Boys, among hundreds of others. But after long negotiations with the European Commission, Universal was forced to sell about a third of those assets to preserve competition in the market. (In a parallel deal, an investor group led by Sony paid $2.2 billion for EMI’s music publishing division.)

In February, Warner made a $765 million deal for the Parlophone group, a large chunk of EMI that includes some of its biggest labels, like Parlophone and Chrysalis; operations across Europe; and the rights to release albums by major artists like Coldplay, Radiohead and Pink Floyd. Approval from the European Commission was widely expected for the Parlophone deal because Warner is the smallest of the three remaining major record companies.

“The commission’s investigation confirmed that the proposed transaction would not raise competition concerns,” the regulator said in a statement, “in particular because following the acquisition, W.M.G. will continue to face competition from the two remaining major music companies, namely Universal Music Group (‘U.M.G.’) and Sony, as well as from independent music labels.”

Since the acquisition of Parlophone has been approved in the United States, Warner Music is expected to close the deal in coming weeks.

Warner worked to win approval from independents by promising those groups the opportunity to buy “a significant portion” of the Parlophone assets. The details of that deal have not been made public, but on Wednesday, Helen Smith, the executive chair of Impala, a group that represents thousands of small music companies, said in a statement: “This marks the beginning of a new chapter for independent labels and their artists.”
409 2013-05-16 New York State Joint Commission on Public Ethics Report on Vito J. Lopez

Read the full investigation report from the New York State Joint Commission on Public Ethics regarding complaints against Vito J. Lopez. Key allegations are highlighted in the index column on the right.
410 2013-05-16 Stocks rose on Wednesday, with the Dow and Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rising to new highs in a broad market rally.

The Nasdaq also reached its highest point since November 2000, though gains were limited by a steep decline in Apple. Shares of the technology giant sold off in late afternoon trading after filings from hedge funds showed that the one-time Wall Street darling had been dropped by more hedge fund managers in the first quarter.

But shares of Apple’s rival, Google, rose to a record high at $916.38 on news that it had adopted a business model for streaming music.

The day’s gains were broad, with nine of the S.& P. 500’s 10 sectors ending higher. Among the top gainers were the consumer staples sector index, up 1 percent, and the financial sector, also up 1 percent. The only decliner was the energy sector index, down 0.4 percent.

The overall market showed further signs of strength as the S.& P. 500-stock index reached a high for the fourth session in a row. The broad index has recorded 15 nominal closing highs this year.
411 2013-05-16 BRUSSELS — The European Commission said on Wednesday it was ready to start an investigation into anticompetitive behavior by Chinese producers of mobile telecommunications equipment, opening a new front in Europe’s trade offensive against China.

The European Union trade commissioner, Karel De Gucht, said in a statement that he and fellow commissioners had agreed in principle to open an antidumping and antisubsidy case, although they would first seek to negotiate a solution with Chinese authorities.

‘'The clock is ticking. We have had an open-door policy for negotiations with our Chinese partners for approximately one year now and we hope that the Chinese authorities step forward and engage with us in a serious manner,'’ Mr. De Gucht’s spokesman said during a news briefing.

The European Union has 31 ongoing trade-related investigations, 18 of them involving China. The largest to date involves imports from China of solar panels, cells and wafers, worth 21 billion euros ($27.25 billion), for which the Union is proposing punitive duties.

China exports more than 1 billion euros worth of telecommunications network equipment per year to the European Union. The equipment is used by telecom providers to transmit voice and data messages.

The proposed investigation into telecommunications equipment would be a new twist in the European Union’s trade defense against China because it would be initiated by the European Commission itself and not in response to a complaint by industry.
412 2013-05-17 WEISS--Howard M. We mourn the death of our cherished member and extend deepest sympathy to his family. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York...
413 2013-05-17 WEISS--Howard M.,May 16, 2013. Beloved husband of Patricia, devoted father of Ellen and Judith. Service Sunday, May 19, 2013, 10 am at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St....
414 2013-05-17 The Great GoogaMooga festival has in the past left Prospect Park beaten up and scarred. It is back this weekend, and questions continue whether local residents end up losers in the enterprise....
415 2013-05-17 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. For Friday, selections include the costs and benefits of people logging into Web sites with Twitter or Facebook, Tim Cook’s proposal for e...
416 2013-05-17 Some conservatives allege that the I.R.S. also targeted individual taxpayers, but a handful of anecdotal data points are not worth much in a country of 300 million....
417 2013-05-17 A new round of subpoenas requesting information indicates that federal prosecutors are intensifying their efforts to build a case against the hedge fund SAC....
418 2013-05-17 Here’s a radical proposal: Don’t check your e-mail tomorrow morning. Instead, devote a designated period of uninterrupted time to a task that really matters....
419 2013-05-17 The story of one of the war’s most infamous fighting units, and the family that commanded it....
420 2013-05-17 Eric Holder tried to justify the government’s secret spying on reporters....
421 2013-05-17 After an eventful week, some thoughtful pieces are worth readers’ attention....
422 2013-05-17 A creative couple collaborates to create gorgeous, white oak furniture for Ralph Pucci International....
423 2013-05-17 There are puzzles, but not the ones the Bernanke-haters claim....
424 2013-05-17 Foxconn Technology has made progress toward better safety conditions, but employees are still working longer than Chinese law allows, Vindu Goel reports in The New York Times....
425 2013-05-17 Rafael Nadal overcame one of the worst opening sets of his career to edge Ernests Gulbis, 1-6, 7-5, 6-4, and reach the quarterfinals of the Italian Open in Rome. He will face fourth-seeded David Ferrer, who advanced when Philipp Kohlschreiber withdrew because of dizziness.

On the women’s side, Serena Williams routed 14th-seeded Dominika Cibulkova, 6-0, 6-1, for her 21st consecutive win, matching the best streak of her career.
426 2013-05-17 The Roman Catholic Diocese of Kansas City-St. Joseph has settled a lawsuit for $600,000 brought by the family of a girl who was 2 years old when Rev. Shawn Ratigan took pornographic pictures of her in 2006. The diocese discovered hundreds of lewd photos of young girls on Father Ratigan’s laptop in 2010, and the case involving the 2-year-old is one of several civil suits against the priest and the diocese brought by the girls and their families. Father Ratigan pleaded guilty last year and is awaiting sentencing. His bishop, Robert W. Finn, was convicted on a misdemeanor charge of failing to report suspected child abuse to authorities.
427 2013-05-17 In a trial that began on Thursday in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, prosecutors described Ms. Murphy as a victim of a pointless rivalry between young men at the Grant Houses and the Manhattanville Houses, two public housing projects in Morningside Heights.

Tiana Walton, an assistant district attorney, told jurors that Ms. Murphy and the two defendants — Tyshawn Brockington and Terique Collins — lived “in a world that few of us see,” a world of “grievances, fights and wars.”

“It was in this world that Grant and Manhattanville were not neighbors; they were enemies,” Ms. Walton said.

Ms. Walton said either Mr. Brockington, 23, or another man who is awaiting trial, Robert Cartagena, 22, fired the shots that killed Ms. Murphy. Both are charged with murder and face up to life in prison. Mr. Collins, 25, who is on trial with Mr. Brockington, is charged with criminal weapon possession and faces up to 15 years in prison on that charge.

Ms. Walton said fights between the young men from the two projects went on throughout the night of Sept. 10, 2011, and into the early morning hours of the next day. Bats and bottles were used as weapons, and people were chased up and down Old Broadway, a small street near the two projects.

Mr. Brockington was beat with a cane at some point, Ms. Walton said. Then, around 3 a.m., Mr. Cartagena and his girlfriend were chased down 125th Street and attacked. Mr. Cartagena and Mr. Brockington crossed paths soon after and hatched a plan for revenge.

“They didn’t want just bats,” Ms. Walton said. “They wanted something more, something illegal.”

She said they contacted Mr. Collins, who kept a handgun they all shared. They retrieved the gun and went to the Grant Houses to “smoke someone.”

Lawyers for Mr. Brockington and Mr. Collins said both men were innocent. They said prosecutors wrongly focused their attention on the two based on rumors.

“There are many people other than Tyshawn Brockington with reasons to be hostile to the young men of Grant Houses,” his lawyer, Daniel S. Parker, said.

Ms. Murphy played basketball for Murry Bergtraum High School for Business Careers in Manhattan. She was ranked on an ESPN Web site as the nation’s 16th-best point guard in her class.

Jurors were shown a cellphone video of Ms. Murphy dancing with her sister, Tanasia Williams, and other friends as a boombox played that night. Ms. Williams, 23, said she had gone upstairs earlier than her younger sister. She was awakened by their brother screaming. She ran downstairs to find their mother cradling Ms. Murphy’s lifeless body.

“My sister was laying there, blood all around her head,” Ms. Williams said, choking back tears. “My mom was screaming and crying, holding her head, trying to pick her up.”
428 2013-05-17 “Sometimes a bank needs a justification for a wire, right?” Mr. Nahmad said, according to a government account of the conversation, in March 2012. “We can just say, Oh, you are buying a painting. If they need justification, you know what I mean? You just be like, Oh yeah, I bought a, you know, Picasso drawing or something.”

It is unclear whether that transaction took place, and no charges related to the use of the business to launder money are contained in the indictment. The charges describe two related gambling networks — one led by Mr. Nahmad — that laundered tens of millions of dollars through shell companies in Cyprus; legitimate hedge funds and real estate assets in the United States; a car-repair shop in Brooklyn; and even a Bronx plumbing company that had been taken over by the gambling ring as payment for a bettor’s losses.

Mr. Nahmad’s lawyers, Benjamin Brafman and Paul Shechtman, have denied the charges and suggest that the accusations amount to little more than run-of-the-mill gambling that does not constitute a crime.

Regardless, the raid and the attendant publicity have had an immediate effect on the Nahmads’ public face in the art world. Throughout the major auctions of the last two weeks only the Nahmad children made appearances, and neither Helly nor his younger brother, Joe, bid openly. The New York gallery recently canceled a show scheduled to open in mid-May after museums grew reluctant to lend works.

Information about how the family’s art business actually works has been difficult to pin down. In several settings, the Nahmads have described a company called the International Art Center as their base of art transactions. But in a federal suit last year the Nahmads sought to deny any legal connection between themselves and the center. Lawyers for the other side in that case said they were not even able to determine where the International Art Center was incorporated. A Christie’s invoice in the case showed the center’s location as Switzerland, but the auction house redacted the city and precise address before entering the document into court records. In a deposition in another lawsuit, Helly Nahmad said the International Art Center was based not in Switzerland but in Panama.

In the past, the question of who ran the gallery itself was a matter of debate. In a 2004 lawsuit, Helly described himself as the gallery’s sole owner. But that year, in a sexual harassment lawsuit against David Nahmad that was settled out of court, the plaintiff, a gallery employee, described Helly as little more than a figurehead, and said all important decisions were made by David and his older brother Giuseppe.

The family’s fortune is said to have been built in the art business, supported early on by wealth derived from family interests in banking and currency trading that date to the early 20th century in their native Syria, and later in Lebanon and Italy.

For decades, the Nahmads’ buying was guided from Europe by Giuseppe, known as Joe, the eldest of three brothers who began investing in the art market in the 1950s. Giuseppe, who died last year in Monte Carlo at 80, was regarded even by critics of his commodities-trading approach to buying art as a shrewd forecaster of market values. The family’s stockpiling of Impressionist works during the 1960s and 1970s, for example, paid off handsomely in the 1980s when the Japanese market boomed and the hunger for Impressionist paintings caused prices to skyrocket. In the bust of the 1990s, the Nahmads reversed course and went on a buying spree.

For many years at auction, they rarely battled with collectors over high-profile paintings, but walked away with less-sought-after works, which they stockpiled in a duty-free warehouse near the Geneva airport believed to hold more than 3,000 of their paintings and sculptures.

Their business has been coveted by the major auction houses, in part because their plentiful bidding energized the sales room but also because of their deep-pocketed ability to provide third-party guarantees on certain big sales. In such arrangements, auction houses guarantee that a seller of a major work will make at least a minimum amount by arranging with a third party to purchase the work for a specific price, undisclosed to the public, should it fail to sell for more. In exchange for putting up the funds, the guarantor — who is essentially reducing the auction house’s financial risk — gets a cut of any proceeds above the guarantee. Helly Nahmad’s lawyer, Mr. Brafman, described the family as “among the most reliable and successful art dealers and gallery owners in the business.”

Until recently, their secretiveness and reluctance to exhibit their holdings was so fierce even some family members acknowledged its effect in the art world. Hillel Nahmad’s cousin — also named Hillel and also known as Helly — told The Art Newspaper in 2011 that it was a “shame” so little of their collection was known. “It is like a composer making a piece of music, and no one listens to it,” added Mr. Nahmad, who is based in London and helped organize the first broad exhibition of the family’s collection, more than 100 works shown at the Kunsthaus in Zurich in 2011.

But as one Hillel was hoping to trumpet the family’s collection, another was about to attract a different kind of attention.

Helly Nahmad of the New York gallery grew up rich in Manhattan with a knack for ostentation, driving a bright yellow BMW as a high school student, say friends who knew him then. He attended Dalton, on the Upper East Side, and according to two classmates and a former school official, was expelled in his senior year for reasons that remain unclear. (Mr. Brafman denies this, saying Helly missed school while traveling and turned down an option to repeat his senior year.)

His father set up the family’s gallery at the corner of Madison Avenue and 76th Street in the early 1970s and by the time Helly took it over in 2000 (and changed its name from the Davlyn to the Helly Nahmad Gallery), the young Mr. Nahmad was known as one of more liberal spenders on the New York club scene. He spent a decade amassing apartments on the 51st floor of the Trump Tower, paying more than $21 million to string together six apartments, or almost the whole floor, The New York Observer reported early this year. “My son likes publicity a lot,” David Nahmad told Forbes magazine in 2007. “I don’t like publicity.”

The two do, however, share an interest in gambling. David is one of the world’s leading backgammon players and once instructed Helly’s brother Joseph, according to The New York Observer, to take up gambling because it taught valuable life lessons.

But Helly’s interest in gambling led to trouble. The high-stakes poker and sports-betting ring that he is accused of helping to lead — with activity stretching from New York and Los Angeles — ultimately came to the attention of federal authorities who were investigating Russian organized crime figures.

Mr. Nahmad helped not only to bankroll the operation, according to prosecutors, but was also personally involved in taking sports bets. In all, 34 people were indicted in the case. The lead defendant is Alimzhan Tokhtakhounov, whom authorities identify as a high-ranking Russian gangster known by his nickname, Taiwanchik. He is accused of directing an operation to launder money generated by a huge sports-betting operation in Russia and has been a fugitive since he was accused by United States authorities in 2002 of being part of a scheme to rig figure skating and ice dancing competitions at the Winter Olympics.

In a rare interview that he granted earlier this month in a Moscow restaurant, Mr. Tokhtakhounov denied any role in the ring and said he did not know the Nahmads. He acknowledged that he had placed bets ranging from $10,000 to $20,000 for himself and a few of his friends on soccer matches with two defendants he described as friends.

“I don’t know, maybe they broke some law,” he said. “But they are pleasant, upstanding guys.”

Mr. Nahmad has denied any wrongdoing and says, through his lawyer, that he does not know Mr. Tokhtakhounov or anyone with connections to Russian organized-crime. Mr. Brafman describes him as a “soft-spoken, respectful, concerned young man who also appears to be a true expert in the world of art.”

It is not disputed, however, that Mr. Nahmad knew one of the other defendants in the case, Illya Trincher, a poker player and onetime promising tennis player whose father, Vadim Trincher, owns an apartment in the Trump Tower. The indictment describes two major crime networks that were essentially linked through Vadim and Illya Trincher and run in part out of the elder Trincher’s Trump Tower apartment. At least two of Mr. Nahmad’s Dalton classmates were also named in the indictment as being involved in the ring.

According to the indictment, Helly Nahmad conspired with the Trinchers to launder money generated by the United States-based betting scheme. The indictment also alleges that Mr. Nahmad induced his father to wire two huge infusions of cash, presumably to bankroll the betting operating, from an account controlled by his father in Geneva. (David Nahmad, 65, was not charged in the case.)

Coercion and physical threats were the darker side of the gambling ring, according to court papers. In a recent hearing, a prosecutor described a phone tap in which a bettor $50,000 in arrears was told about the existence of an enforcer named Maxim and warned that “he should be careful lest he be tortured.”

Helly Nahmad, who had to put up his property in the Trump Tower to be released on bail, is expected to go on trial next year. In the weeks since the indictment, Mr. Nahmad has shown few signs that anything is amiss in his life or that of his family’s business. On a recent Friday afternoon, his gallery was a picture of art-world decorum. Minor works by name-brand Modernists — Dubuffet, Rothko, Sam Francis — hung on the walls and Mr. Nahmad, wearing a nicely cut blue suit, swept in with an entourage of young men and made his way upstairs, where he could be heard discussing an art transaction. A few nights before that, he was spotted sitting in his regular courtside seats at a Knicks game, next to Mr. Brafman, one seat away from Spike Lee. He was cheering loudly and wearing a baseball cap emblazoned with the image of a king from a deck of playing cards.
429 2013-05-17 In her thoughtful article about her choice to undergo a double mastectomy, Angelina Jolie said the cost of genetic testing for BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations “remains an obstacle for many women” (“My Medical Choice,” Op-Ed, May 14).

Our BRACAnalysis test has been used by more than a million women to assess their risk of hereditary breast and ovarian cancer.

The test remains widely reimbursed by insurance companies, with more than 95 percent of at-risk women covered and with an average out-of-pocket cost of about $100. And, thanks to preventive care provisions in the Affordable Care Act, many patients can receive BRACAnalysis testing with no out-of-pocket costs.

For patients in need, Myriad offers a patient assistance program that offers testing at reduced costs or free of charge.

“Jolie’s Disclosure of Preventive Mastectomy Highlights Dilemma” (front page, May 15) discusses Angelina Jolie’s decision to undergo prophylactic surgery after testing positive for a BRCA1 mutation. It should be noted that not all hereditary breast and ovarian cancer is attributable to mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2.

An alternative dilemma exists when a patient has a very strong family history of breast and ovarian cancer, especially diagnosed at young ages, and the BRCA test is negative.

The patient is left wondering what to do next. These patients should consider a new method of testing for multiple genetic mutations via next-generation sequencing, which can often be ordered as part of a research protocol in academic centers.
430 2013-05-17 Last week, the federal government made public a vast trove of information on the list prices charged by hospitals for a large array of procedures commonly performed on hospitalized patients. It was a good start toward providing greater transparency in hospital billing, which has long been shrouded in secrecy. But it fell short of providing full information that patients need to make informed decisions about which hospitals to use and which insurance to buy.

The data was compiled from hospital claims submitted to Medicare by more than 3,300 hospitals seeking fee-for-service reimbursements for the 100 most common inpatient treatments in fiscal-year 2011. The prices at issue — sometimes called “chargemaster” prices — are not what most people pay. They are far higher than what Medicare pays, which is close to the real cost of providing the service, and also higher than what private insurers pay because they negotiate for discounts.

The only patients likely to be charged the full listed prices are those with little or no insurance and no purchaser to bargain on their behalf. Many insured patients also face higher premiums or co-payments because their plans reimburse the hospitals based on discounts from the listed prices. The listed prices varied wildly from one part of the country to another and even within the same city or region, seemingly without any good reason or any relationship to the quality of care delivered.

For example, a Times analysis published Friday found that the Bayonne Medical Center in New Jersey typically charged $99,689 for treating each case of chronic lung disease, 17 times as much as Medicare paid in reimbursement. The price for a joint replacement with artificial hips or knees ranged from a low of $5,300 in a hospital in Ada, Okla., to a high of $223,000 at a hospital in Monterey Park, Calif., a 40-fold difference that cannot be explained by regional differences in wages, the sickness of the patients, or a hospital’s teaching responsibilities. The charge for treating heart failure patients in hospitals in Jackson, Miss., ranged from $9,000 to $51,000.

The huge differences in list prices have been posted on a government Web site. But for consumers to compare one hospital with another in a meaningful way, they need to know a lot more — including the rates that have been negotiated between hospitals and insurers, the listed prices for outpatient treatments, and the quality of care provided, a difficult measurement that is in its infancy.
431 2013-05-17 The disclosure of the delivery comes as Russia and the United States are planning to convene an international conference that is aimed at ending the brutal conflict in Syria, which has killed more than 70,000. That conference is expected to be held in early June and to include representatives of the Assad government and the Syrian opposition.

Secretary of State has repeatedly said that it is the United States’ hope to change Mr. Assad’s “calculations” about his ability to hold on to power so that he will allow negotiations for a political solution to the conflict. Mr. Kerry indicated that he had raised the issue of Russian arms deliveries to Syria during his recent visit to , but declined to provide details.

“I think we’ve made it crystal clear we would prefer that Russia was not supplying assistance,” he said. “That hasn’t changed.”

American officials have been concerned that the flow of Russian and Iranian arms to Syria will buttress Mr. Assad’s apparent belief that he can prevail militarily.

“This weapons transfer is obviously disappointing and will set back efforts to promote the political transition that is in the best interests of the Syrian people and the region,” Senator of , the senior Republican on the Foreign Relations Committee, said in a statement on Thursday night. “There is now greater urgency for the U.S. to step up assistance to the moderate opposition forces who can lead Syria after Assad.”

Senator , Democrat of and the committee chairman, added in a statement, “Russia is offering cover to a despotic ruler and defending a bankrupt regime.”

Syria ordered the coastal defense version of the Yakhont system from Russia in 2007 and received the first batteries in early 2011, according to Jane’s. The initial order covered 72 missiles, 36 launcher vehicles, and support equipment, and the systems have been displayed in the country.

The batteries are mobile, which makes them more difficult to attack. Each consists of missiles, a three-missile launcher and a command-and-control vehicle.

The missiles are about 22 feet long, carry either a high-explosive or armor-piercing warhead, and have a range of about 180 miles, according to Jane’s.

They can be steered to a target’s general location by longer-range radars, but each missile has its own radar to help evade a ship’s defenses and home in as it approaches its target.

Two senior American officials said that the most recent shipment contained missiles with a more advanced guidance system than earlier shipments.

Russia has longstanding interests in Syria, including a naval base at the Mediterranean port of Tartus.

As the Syria crisis has escalated, Russia has gradually augmented its naval presence in the region. In January, more than two dozen Russian warships sailed to the Black and Mediterranean Seas to take part in what the Defense Ministry said was to be the country’s largest naval exercise in decades, testing the ships’ ability to deploy outside Russian waters.

A month later, after the Black Sea exercises ended, the Russian Defense Ministry news agency said that four large landing vessels were on their way to operations off the coast of Syria.

“Based on the results of the navy exercises in the Black and Mediterranean seas,” the ministry said at the time, “the ministry leadership has taken a decision to continue combat duty by Russian warships in the Mediterranean.”

Russia’s diplomatic support of Syria has also bolstered the Assad government.

At the , the Russians recently blocked proposals that the Security Council mount a fact-finding trip to , and to investigate the burgeoning flood of refugees, according to Western diplomats.

Jordan had sought the United Nations visit to make the point that the refugee situation was a threat to stability in the region, but Russia said that the trip was beyond the mandate of the Security Council, diplomats said.

When allegations that the Assad government had used chemical weapons surfaced, Russia also backed the Syrian government’s refusal to allow the United Nations to carry out a wide-ranging investigation inside Syria — which Russia’s foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, said was an attempt to “politicize the issue” and impose the “Iraqi scenario” on Syria.

Russian officials have repeatedly said that in selling arms to Syria, they are merely fulfilling old contracts. But some American officials worry that the deliveries are intended to limit the United States’ options should it choose to intervene to help the rebels.

Russia, for example, previously shipped SA-17 surface-to-air missiles to Syria. carried out an airstrike against trucks that were transporting the weapons near Damascus in January. Israel has not officially acknowledged the raid but has said it is prepared to intervene militarily to prevent any “game changing” weapons from being shipped to , the Lebanese militant group.

More recently, Israeli and American officials have urged Russia not to proceed with the sale of advanced S-300 air defense weapons. The Kremlin has yielded to American entreaties not to provide S-300s to . But the denial of that sale, analysts say, has increased the pressure within Russia’s military establishment to proceed with the delivery to Syria.
432 2013-05-17 An Apple spokesman, Steve Dowling, declined to discuss the specifics of the Fair Labor Association audit, which he said was done independently of Apple. In a statement, Foxconn said the F.L.A. report confirmed the company’s recent improvements in its operations. “We will continue to build on that success as we work toward compliance with the F.L.A. Code,” the company said.

But Mr. Dowling said Apple has been working closely with its suppliers and conducting its own monitoring to improve conditions at the factories that make its products, and the company has posted public progress reports.

Foxconn, part of the Taiwan-based company Hon Hai Precision Industry, employs about 178,000 workers at the three factories inspected. It has about 1.2 million workers at plants making products for Apple, Hewlett-Packard, Dell, Microsoft and other technology companies.

Foxconn has been under intense scrutiny for several years because of working conditions inside its factories. Investigations by The New York Times, outside groups and Apple’s own supplier responsibility officials have found illegal amounts of overtime, crowded working conditions, under-age workers and improper disposal of hazardous waste. Industrial accidents have injured and killed Foxconn workers, and the company also experienced a wave of worker suicides.

Labor and consumer activists have pressured Apple, one of the most profitable companies in the world, to do more to improve conditions for the people who make its products. The monthly earnings of Foxconn workers making Apple products are currently about $500.

Apple joined the Fair Labor Association, or F.L.A., in January 2012, and asked the group to audit its suppliers, beginning with Foxconn. The labor group has periodically inspected Foxconn factories in Guanlan, Longhua and Chengdu since February 2012 and interviewed thousands of workers. Apple pays for the audits.

After the first inspection, Apple and Foxconn agreed to an action plan of 360 items to be completed by July 1, 2013. As of January, 98.3 percent of them had been achieved, the group’s report said.

Most of the items were “housekeeping issues,” said Auret van Heerden, chief executive of the F.L.A., in an interview Thursday. “Those things they plowed through.”

But Foxconn has also addressed more substantive problems, Mr. van Heerden said. For example, in fire safety, the company added more escape routes and cleared choke points after the auditors asked it to test the evacuation of buildings during shift change, when plants are most crowded. “We were, in a way, looking for trouble,” he said.

He noted that Foxconn has also overhauled many processes, including using robots instead of people to polish the aluminum backs of iPad cases and water to capture and dispose of the resulting dust. An aluminum dust explosion in May 2011 at Foxconn’s Chengdu factory killed three workers and injured more than a dozen others.

Critics of the F.L.A. and Foxconn said the most recent audit played down problems found by other investigators, such as unpaid overtime and Foxconn’s use of unpaid interns.

“Over all, the F.L.A.’s reporting on Foxconn continues to be unjustifiably rosy,” Scott Nova, executive director of the Workers Rights Consortium, a university-backed group that monitors apparel factories worldwide, said in an e-mail.
433 2013-05-17 “Apple injected much-needed competition and innovation into the e-book business,” said Orin Snyder, a lawyer at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher who represents Apple. “The DOJ’s case is based on fictions and incomplete quotations. The actual evidence proves that Apple did not conspire to fix prices in the e-book business. We look forward to trial.”

The Justice Department accuses Apple of its own selective quotation. And, it said, the evidence shows that the publishing companies threatened to withhold books unless Amazon allowed them to set higher prices and that Apple “encouraged them to do so.”

Apple seems particularly peeved about the government invoking e-mails of its former chief executive, Steven P. Jobs, to assert its case, saying the government’s selective editing of those e-mails deliberately distorts Mr. Jobs’s intentions.

The government’s court papers quote from an e-mail that Mr. Jobs sent on Jan. 24, 2010, to James Murdoch, who as head of News Corporation oversaw its publishing company, HarperCollins. That was three days before the introduction of the iPad, as Apple was furiously negotiating deals with publishers that would allow it to introduce its bookstore on the same day.

Apple says the government left out of its papers the fact that Mr. Jobs said Amazon might have the right price for e-books already, at $9.99. “Maybe they are right and we will fail,” Mr. Jobs wrote.

Taken in total, Apple said, the e-mail “shows a new entrant with no market power proposing an alternative business model to HarperCollins, and candidly recognizing that Apple has no power to predict or influence other retailers,” Apple said in pretrial papers.

Sarah Rotman Epps, an analyst at Forrester who follows the publishing industry, said Apple still has a relatively small share of the e-book market.

“Even though they have a big brand, their actions have had relatively little impact on the overall industry,” Ms. Rotman Epps said.

Since Apple’s entry, e-book prices have gone down, the company said, with the average retail price of an electronic book falling 63 cents since April 2010, from $7.97 to $7.34.

Michael Cader, the creator of Publishers Lunch, an industry publication, said there were multiple ways of interpreting what had happened to e-book prices since the start of Apple’s iBookstore. He said at least part of the decline might reflect the exponential growth in older books, self-published books and books from an array of small and digital-only publishers, many of which are often sold for as little as 99 cents to $3.
434 2013-05-17 “It’s very clear that sexual abuse in detention remains a nationwide crisis,” said Lovisa Stannow, executive director of Just Detention International, an organization that works to end sexual abuse in detention facilities.

But, she said, the wide disparity in rates among institutions “speaks clearly to the fact that it is possible to run a safe prison, and it’s an important counterpoint to pop culture portrayals of prisoner rape, which often portray this type of violence as if it were inevitable and comes in the tap water.”

The Justice Department issued new detention standards last year aimed at detecting and preventing sexual abuse; those standards take effect in August.

The report based its weighted estimates on self-administered computer-assisted interviews with a random sample of more than 90,000 inmates in jails, state and federal prisons, and centers operated by Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the military and American Indian authorities. Twenty jails refused to participate in the survey.

Allen Beck, a senior statistical adviser at the justice statistics bureau and the lead author of the report, said extensive precautions were taken to preserve confidentiality for inmates who participated in the survey and to ensure that the reports were as reliable as possible.

The survey found that among 16- and 17-year-old inmates housed in adult prisons and jails, 4.7 percent reported some form of sexual abuse. Of those, a majority said they had been victimized more than once, and 78.6 percent of those sexually abused by other inmates reported the use of physical force, as did 43.7 percent of inmates abused by staff members. While the figures for juveniles are slightly higher than those for adults, the difference is not statistically significant, the report found.

But Liz Ryan, president and chief executive of the Campaign for Youth Justice, a group that aims to keep minors out of the adult criminal justice system, said, “We think that this study is inconsistent with previous studies that have been done on this topic.”

The survey found that some institutions had rates of sexual abuse far higher than the national average, singling out by name 21 prisons and local jails, 2 military facilities, a detention center operated by the immigration enforcement agency and a jail on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation in South Dakota.

Included among the jails were the Rose M. Singer Center, on Rikers Island in New York City, with a rate of 5 percent for sexual abuse by other inmates and 5.9 percent for sexual misconduct by staff, and the Baltimore City Detention Center, with a rate of 6.7 percent for sexual misconduct by staff.

Last month, federal authorities issued an indictment against the Baltimore jail, accusing corrections officers of having sex with prisoners and colluding with members of a gang known as the Black Guerrilla Family to smuggle drugs and cellphones.

Two military detention centers, the Northwest Joint Regional Correctional Facility in Washington State and the Naval Consolidated Brig Miramar in California, were also identified as having high rates of reported sexual abuse, as was the Oglala Sioux Tribal Offenders Facility, where 10.8 percent of inmates reported having been victims of sexual misconduct by staff, the highest rate among all the jails and prisons surveyed.
435 2013-05-17 Images from new exhibitions of works by Jeff Koons and Paul McCarthy....
436 2013-05-17 Helen Berggruen, who has been showing her paintings since 1975 and with the Fischbach Gallery since 1993, is enamored of the art of the Post-Impressionists and beyond: Cézanne, Van Gogh and Bonnard — and maybe Beckmann and Soutine. There is nothing new about the landscapes, still lifes and interiors that are her subject matter. She extends or multiplies spaces by painting the view out a window and including mirrors. In a way these are old-hat tricks.

The thing that separates Ms. Berggruen’s work from those of her predecessors — and makes it feel contemporary and distinct — is the apparent glee with which she puts brush to canvas. Her emphatic dabs and curling, commalike strokes seem applied with the exuberance of someone who has just discovered that distorting reality is much more interesting than recording it faithfully.

Her trees, plants and flowers tend to writhe; her pitchers and vases gleam almost too brightly; and her clouds tumble and push in ways that might have made El Greco wince. Even the walls of rooms are weirdly mottled, almost atmospheric, as is suggested by “Quince, Orange Slices,” in which a green wall and cloud-puffed sky, separated by a window frame, appear side by side. In “San Francisco, Storm Approaching” the clouds could be Milton’s fallen angels, struggling heavenward. And in “Winding Road With Sunflower Fields,” the road is a tumult of purples, lavenders and blues that suggests a rushing stream. Add Ms. Berggruen’s robust, full-spectrum palette and you’ve got quite a bit to look at.

These paintings are, in a sense, homage-parodies that both revere their sources and add a touch that is all their own, giving them their required independence.
437 2013-05-17 And the new college football playoff will be on ESPN. Only the Super Bowl and the World Series seem safe on broadcast television, but maybe for another decade or so.

Cable networks have increasingly used their revenue from subscribers and advertisers to lavish cash on leagues, college conferences and other rights holders. Broadcasters have reasoned that they sometimes cannot compete with cable networks, especially ESPN, for high-end sports rights, or that they do not need them as they once did, as CBS has concluded with the United States Open.

Its United States Open viewership tumbled to a 25-year low of 2 million in 2012 from as many as 3.4 million 10 years earlier. And rain has forced the postponement of the men’s final from Sunday to Monday for five straight years.

With money to spend, ESPN and other cable channels like TNT and TBS have for years been encroaching on the turf of broadcast networks, which have long carried games on weekends and occasionally in prime time. Their strategy has been similar to the one deployed with great success by cable networks like USA, AMC and A&E, which developed original dramas, comedies and reality series that have forced broadcasters to reimagine their futures as viewers have left them in droves.

The acquisition of all rights to the United States Open follows a similar move by ESPN two years ago to end NBC’s 43-year grip on Wimbledon with a 12-year deal worth nearly $500 million. When the United States Open deal starts in two years, the only tennis Grand Slam left on broadcast television will be the French Open on NBC, which has the rights through 2024.

CBS was looking at losing money on the United States Open if it had to raise its annual rights payment to the United States Tennis Association to about $32.5 million in a new deal, from $20 million.

“We could not come to an agreement with the U.S.T.A. that made economic sense for CBS,” said Sean McManus, the chairman of CBS Sports.

ESPN’s $75 million annual payment for the Open nearly quadruples what it has been paying. It will combine what it had been paying with what CBS has been paying and absorb a sizable increase. Still, it amounts to pocket change for ESPN, which in 2014 will start a long-term deal in which it will pay $1.9 billion a year to continue to carry “Monday Night Football.”

U.S.T.A. officials sounded so enamored of ESPN’s power to reach tennis fans that on a conference call with reporters Thursday they sounded ready to move on, immediately if possible, from CBS.

The U.S.T.A.’s executive director, Gordon Smith, said the deal “puts the U.S. Open at the center of American sports culture as never before.”
438 2013-05-17 Oddities in the field keep turning up. At the Bloomfield Science Museum in Jerusalem, an Enigma has a keyboard converted to Hebrew. The Bletchley Park National Codes Center, at the estate near London where British forces deciphered enemy messages, is showing a ruined machine fished out of a river in Poland. (It had recently appeared on eBay.)

The code center, part of the setting for a new television series, “The Bletchley Circle,” is restoring its 1940s huts and digitizing a voluminous archive.

“We found boxes of papers we didn’t know we had,” Victoria Worpole, the center’s director of education and collections, said in a phone interview.

David Kahn, a historian in Manhattan who has written about Enigmas for decades, is donating his library to the National Cryptologic Museum.

He keeps buying more books, but resists the temptation to own an actual Enigma.

Micah Williams, a 19th-century portrait painter, left hardly any paper trail except some remarkable bankruptcy records.

In 1814, at 32, he spent months in debtors’ prison. A sheriff’s team seized the contents of his house in New Brunswick, N.J. His children and his pregnant wife, Margaret, were allowed to keep only some clothes.

Now, Williams’s first retrospective is at the Monmouth County Historical Association in Freehold, N.J. “Let me introduce you to his long-suffering wife, Margaret,” Bernadette M. Rogoff, the museum curator there, said while giving a preview of the exhibition, “Micah Williams: Portrait Artist.”

The show, which opens on Sunday, starts with Margaret’s image at the gallery entryway. She posed wearing no jewelry, and with her eyebrows skeptically raised.

Ms. Rogoff has gathered a quarter of Williams’s 272 pastels and oils depicting prosperous New Yorkers and New Jerseyans. She is still trying to determine how he reinvented himself as an itinerant portraitist soon after he was released from prison. (Before that he had shuttered a failing silversmith workshop.)

Family correspondence mentions problems “caused by brandy.” Yet he could finish a painting in a day, capturing charisma and minute clothing details in generations of venerable families, mostly from New Jersey, like the Schencks and Van Maters. His sitters carry evocative props: peaches symbolize families’ thriving orchards, and jewelry containing human hair suggests recent bereavement.

In 1835 a tornado struck New Brunswick, N.J., and is believed to have destroyed Williams’s studio. He died two years later, at 55.

His portraits keep emerging on the market with five-figure prices, at auction houses including Skinner in Boston and Pook & Pook in Downingtown, Pa. The exhibition and catalog may unearth more.

“I call it ‘shaking the trees,’ ” Ms. Rogoff said.

The major auction houses typically turn down outsider art, since its prices fall below their mid-four-figure minimums. Material Culture, a year-old auction house in Philadelphia, is helping fill the gap with a May 26 sale focused partly on outsider art.

Paintings and sculptures by celebrated artists like Howard Finster are combined with unsigned carnival ads for snake charmers and human cannonballs, and tribal and Asian antiques including Tibetan lama vests (with estimates for each from a few hundred dollars to five figures).

The eclectic mix contains “many pieces of substantial merit and deep tradition,” George Jevremovic, Material Culture’s founder, said in a phone interview.

He has one established competitor: Slotin Folk Art in Buford, Ga., has held outsider art sales for 17 years. The owner, Steve Slotin, said diplomatically in a phone interview that he was flattered by the new Philadelphia venture.

The Viennese designer Koloman Moser has long been in the shadow of his flashier colleague Josef Hoffmann. From 1903 to 1907, Moser teamed up with Hoffmann at the Wiener Werkstätte collaborative, without recording his own achievements much.

“Moser never wrote anything,” except for one autobiographical essay, Christian Witt-Dörring, the curator of a Moser retrospective that opens on Thursday at the Neue Galerie in Manhattan, said in a phone interview.

The show (organized with the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, with a catalog from Prestel) covers Moser’s bank notes, postage stamps, stained-glass windows, pillows, gowns, jewelry, stage sets, stoneware tureens and 400 types of glassware.

Moser was self-made; his father was a school caretaker, and the family apartment was shabby.  He learned as a teenager to cater to patrons’ tastes for clean forms and semiprecious stones. (A June 13 design auction at Christie’s in New York has a Moser silver box studded with malachite, estimated at $50,000 to $70,000.)

In 1905 Moser married the brewery heiress Editha Mautner von Markhof. When his Wiener Werkstätte colleagues asked her for money behind his back, he quit the group. He devoted himself to painting bouquets, landscapes and portraits until his death in 1918, at 50. (On Thursday Sotheby’s in London will offer a Moser painting of flowers and fence posts, estimated at $90,000 to $120,000.)

The Neue Galerie team has found archival evidence to newly attribute some major works to Moser, including a black oak cabinet inlaid with a scene of fish nibbling seaweed that belongs to the Museum of Applied Arts in Budapest.
439 2013-05-17 WASHINGTON — A sharply divided Senate committee on Thursday approved the nomination of Gina McCarthy to serve as administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.

The Environment and Public Works Committee voted to clear Ms. McCarthy by 10-to-8 along strictly partisan lines, sending the nomination to the Senate floor where Republicans are threatening to filibuster unless the E.P.A. meets demands for additional information.

The Democrats on the panel, chaired by Senator Barbara Boxer of California, were able to muster a majority through the presence of Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, the ailing New Jersey Democrat who has been largely absent from the Senate in recent weeks.

Republicans boycotted last week’s planned vote on Ms. McCarthy, saying she had been unresponsive to a torrent of questions about E.P.A. policies and information practices, including the use of secondary e-mail accounts by top officials. The agency’s inspector general is looking into that allegation, as well as a second charge by Republicans that conservative groups are discriminated against in Freedom of Information Act requests.

Senator David Vitter of Louisiana, the ranking Republican on the committee, said that the E.P.A.'s acting administrator, Robert Perciasepe, had provided new assurances this week that the agency would cooperate with five Republican demands for information. Although he and all the other Republicans on the environment committee voted against sending Ms. McCarthy’s nomination to the full Senate, he said he would not seek to filibuster her confirmation if Mr. Perciasepe followed through on his pledges.

“Should major additional progress be made in all of the five categories over the next two weeks,” Mr. Vitter said, “I will strongly support handling the McCarthy nomination on the Senate floor without a cloture vote or any 60-vote threshold. Should all of our requests in the five categories be granted, I will support the McCarthy nomination.”
440 2013-05-17 A report by Better Factories Cambodia, a program of the International Labor Organization, highlighted concerns about workplace safety last month, including “a worrying increase in fire safety violations.”

Bradley Gordon, an American lawyer based in Phnom Penh, said that Cambodia had strong laws on safety and other issues, drafted partly with help from international advisers, but that enforcement was often weak.

The cause of the ceiling collapse Thursday was not immediately known. Ken Loo, the secretary general of the Garment Manufacturers Association in Cambodia, said that steel beams holding up a concrete-floored storage area at mezzanine height between two buildings had given way.

One of the workers injured in the collapse, Jonh Sokpheak, 29, said the mezzanine was “overloaded” with materials for sneakers.

Mr. Sokpheak said he avoided more serious injury because when the ceiling collapsed he fell under a table.

“I feel like I’ve been reincarnated; I didn’t think I would survive,” he said from his hospital bed. “I crawled and crawled and then made it outside.”

Other workers described a frantic rush to safety.

“People were screaming, ‘Get out! Get out!’ ” said Thinna Makara, a 40-year-old woman who sews fabrics for sneakers.

Workers at the factory, called Wing Star Shoes, were making shoes for Asics, an athletic shoe company based in Kobe, Japan, said a company spokesman, Naomichi Hatori. He could not immediately say which market the shoes were shipped to, or whether the plant also made shoes for other brands.

Mr. Hatori said that Asics “offered its deepest sympathies” to the victims and their families and that the company would consider measures to revamp safety at its overseas suppliers.

Popular with runners, Asics has been particularly successful in the United States, where it emphasizes corporate responsibility.

The factory, which opened about 18 months ago and was built on top of former rice paddies, employs about 8,000 people, workers say.

Employees have been asked to report to work on Monday, according to Komean Keang, a seamstress who on Thursday night was attending the wake of one of the workers killed, Ream Sa Roeun.

Mr. Sa Roeun’s mother was inconsolable and had not eaten all day, family members said. She was given compensation of $5,000 by the company.

Entry-level workers at the factory are paid around $75 a month, Cambodia’s minimum wage.

“It’s not enough, especially when your children get sick,” Ms. Makara, the seamstress, said. Workers have gone on strike three times since September, she said, and each time factory managers agreed to a monthly raise of $5.

Ms. Makara’s sister, Melia, a forewoman at the factory, said seamstresses sew about 450 pairs of sneakers in a typical day, including overtime.

Melia Makara, 26, said she was not afraid to return to work because the collapse occurred in a part of the factory far from where she works. Thursday’s collapse was the first fatal accident she had witnessed in four years in the shoe industry, she said.

Until asked about it, Ms. Makara was not aware of the factory collapse in Bangladesh.

Some workers said they were eager to return to work.

“Rice farming cannot support my family,” Mr. Sokpheak said. “I want to go back to work at the factory.”
441 2013-05-18 Venturi had not won since the 1960 Milwaukee Open, had considering quitting and had been required to participate in two qualifying events before being allowed into the Open. He almost collapsed from the heat on the 17th green of his morning round but carded a remarkable 66.

Going into the final 18 holes, Venturi was two shots behind the leader, Tommy Jacobs. After a 45-minute break, Venturi virtually staggered through the final round, trailed by Dr. John Everett, who was monitoring the players and who had warned him against continuing out of fear he would die from heat prostration.

Everett gave Venturi ice cubes, iced tea and salt pills as he played on, instinct triumphing over the pressure and the exhaustion. Venturi overtook Jacobs and sank a 10-foot putt on the final hole to close out a 70, besting Jacobs by four shots.

“I dropped my putter and I raised my arms up to the sky,” Venturi told The A.P. in 1997. “I said, ‘My God, I’ve won the Open.’ The applause was deafening. It was like thunder coming out there.”

Venturi was so weak that he could not reach into the hole to get his ball, so Raymond Floyd, his playing partner, did it for him.

“I felt this hand on me, and it was Raymond Floyd handing me the ball,” Venturi remembered. “I looked at him, and he had tears streaming down his face.”

As Floyd later told The A.P.: “He was running on fumes. If you had asked him his name, he could not have told you. It is one of the most heroic things I have ever seen.”

Venturi was helped off the green by the United States Golf Association official Joe Dye and was so woozy that he could not read his scorecard. Dye assured him that it was correct and that he could sign it.

Venturi was named PGA player of the year for 1964 and was selected for the 1965 Ryder Cup team. By then, he had developed carpal tunnel syndrome and had surgery, hoping to relieve cold and numbness in his hands. But he never regained his form and soon retired.

He overcame a stammering problem as a child and was hired by CBS to provide commentary on the PGA Tour; he remained with the network for 35 years, retiring in 2002.

“With that exhausting, emotional victory, Venturi established a bond with viewers,” Peter McCleery wrote in Golf Digest in 2002, recalling Venturi’s triumph in the Open. “His strength as an analyst has been the passion and conviction he brought to the booth. He said things with such authority and in such absolute terms that you believed him, or wanted to.”

Venturi was born and reared in San Francisco, where his father, Fred, a skilled workman on the docks, ran the golf shop at the Harding Park municipal golf course. He began playing as a youngster and honed his game by playing repeated fade and draw shots in solitary drills.

Venturi became the San Francisco interscholastic golf champion, and he played at San Jose State University, where he received a degree in physical education. Byron Nelson, whom Venturi idolized as a youngster, later tutored him.

He is survived by his third wife, Kathleen, and two sons, Matthew and Tim, according to The Associated Press.

Venturi engaged in many charitable endeavors while working as a broadcaster, most notably the Guiding Eyes Classic, an event in New York that included blind golfers and raised more than $6 million to provide dogs for the blind.

He told Golf Digest in 2004 how a guide dog from the program saved his owner, a man named Omar Rivera, in the Sept. 11 terrorist attack, leading him down 71 floors of the World Trade Center’s North Tower.

As Venturi recalled it: “At a Guiding Eyes gala at Rockefeller Plaza, Omar came forward and told his story. Toward the end, he said, ‘This dog came from Ken Venturi.’ I cry easily enough as it is, but I cried buckets that day.”
442 2013-05-18 There has never been a lot of love lost between the rival developers of Extell and Stephen M. Ross of Related Companies.

But the two men, both prolific builders, are putting aside their differences long enough to exchange properties and money on the real estate chessboard known as .

The deal, which real estate executives say will be signed in the coming days, would make Related the largest landowner in the 50-block district on the Far West Side of Manhattan.

On Friday afternoon, the two sides were exchanging deal documents under which Mr. Ross would agree to buy a one-acre site owned by Mr. Barnett on the east side of 11th Avenue, between 33rd and 34th Streets, for an undisclosed sum, according to three people who have been briefed on the negotiations but were not authorized to discuss the agreement.

At the same time, Related Companies and would sell Extell a small parcel on the east side of Eighth Avenue, between 45th and 46th Streets, where Related and had once wanted to build an office tower.
443 2013-05-18 It reopened soon after as the Cedar Tavern at 82 University Place. By then Pollock and Kline had died, and de Kooning was living in East Hampton. But it retained a pull on the city’s artistic class for another few years, and kept its louche ambience for decades.

Bob Dylan and the director D. A. Pennebaker plotted out the documentary “Dont Look Back” at the Cedar in the mid-’60s. Later on, you could find Donald Barthelme hanging out there. I remember sitting at a table in 1994 with my then wife and some of her theater friends, our attention divided between the television spectacle of O. J. Simpson trying to elude the police in his white Bronco and the choreographer Mark Morris, who was watching the chase from the bar.

Even as its alternatives and successors disappeared — the San Remo, Dillon’s, the Five Spot, the Lion’s Head, Max’s Kansas City — the Cedar survived. Despite the passing years, and its new location, it maintained its emblematic power as the place where America’s superheroes of art once held court.

Artists still, of course, have their favorite haunts. But in this country, there has never been a locale so central to a particular style of art-making as the Cedar.

The Cedar closed for good in 2006, when the tenement apartments above it were turned into stratospherically priced condos. But the space stayed empty, and the persistent, hopeful rumors that it would reopen were like echoes of the Cedar’s capacity to inspire the very dreams of spiritual regeneration that animated its original patrons. Even abandoned and deserted, the Cedar Tavern never really stopped being the Cedar Bar.

Until now. It is gone, and I feel little nostalgia for what the place represented.

The Cedar stood for something grand, to a degree. It flourished at a time when people met without elaborately texted plans, when a young person could arrive without money or connections and slip into a subculture of like-minded souls.

The art critic Harold Rosenberg, writing in 1959, said that the “the art colony on Tenth Street” — the Cedar’s neighborhood — was a “Bohemia” whose purpose was to “transmute the ranks established by social class into a hierarchy based on talent or daring.”

But despite the Cedar’s mix of people, despite its risqué interracial mingling, not everyone in that golden-seeming age enjoyed the underworld atmosphere, or benefited from it.

Recounting how the painter Milton Resnick challenged Pollock to “step outside” after the latter accused Resnick of being a “de Kooning imitator,” Andy Warhol wrote: “I tried to imagine myself in a bar striding over to, say, Roy Lichtenstein and asking him to ‘step outside’ because I’d heard him insulting my soup cans. I mean, how corny.”

O’Hara, who was gay, was appalled by the hatred of gays he found there. In a play O’Hara wrote with the bisexual painter Larry Rivers, Pollock swaggers into the Cedar and in a booming voice calls O’Hara and Rivers “those fags.”

And despite the number of female painters accepted into the Cedar’s ranks — Hartigan, Joan Mitchell, Lee Krasner, Hedda Sterne — being a woman amid all that tortured macho posturing could be unbearable. Krasner, Pollock’s wife, rarely went to the Cedar. “I loathed the place,” she said. “The women were treated like cattle.”

Even some of the Cedar’s male habitués would just as soon have lived without it. For Mark Rothko, it was a place where you ran into “the ambitious egotist out for grabs,” he said. “I do not go to the Cedar Bar.”

Enlightened social attitudes and revolutionary artistic creation rarely go hand in hand. Like me, you may miss the contemporary version of Pollock’s shocking gossamer canvases. But it is hard to long for the social context that enabled Pollock’s masterpieces.

As for that “talent or daring” of which Rosenberg spoke, the mostly immigrant women who no doubt will find work at the new European Wax Center, who made their way here from cruelly limited places across oceans and borders, will shave and polish the way the artists primed and painted.

Many of those women live here in hardship and exploitative conditions, to be sure. Yet thanks to their boldness and will, and to the permutations of history, their children will live in a better world than existed at 82 University Place. Rich cultural moments and the places where they flourish wax and wane, and wax again, but talent and daring never die.
444 2013-05-18 Rights groups now estimate that at least 25,000 Syrians are in detention, and some say the true number is likely much higher.

The Syrian government has denied using torture, and does not comment on the number of detainees it holds.

In late April, Human Rights Watch investigators visited the local branches of State Security and Military Intelligence in the northern city of Raqqa, which antigovernment forces seized in March and still control.

A researcher, Lama Fakih, who was on the trip, said that besides proof that detainees were ill treated, the team found large quantities of documents, including a list of security staff members and innumerable case files for local residents.

“You could see in each case file the picture of the person who was being investigated, how old he was, where he lived and other things like the types of activities he was engaged in,” she said.

The team also interviewed several men who had been held in the centers. Most said they had been detained for marching in antigovernment protests, and some said they had been beaten and electrocuted. One said he had confessed to demonstrating after his captors threatened to detain his mother.

The research team visited two of the five security agencies with centers in Raqqa, Ms. Fakih said, adding that there is a network of such centers throughout Syria.

“What we’ve seen in these branches pales in comparison to the types of torture we’ve heard about in other branches,” she said. “This is just the tip of the iceberg.”

Human Rights Watch considers the information in these centers essential to understanding how the Syrian government’s security groups function, as well as potentially valuable in future prosecutions against government officers who participated in abuse. It has called on rebel leaders to protect the sites until their contents can be studied.

Many local residents, however, seemed uninterested in preserving the centers, Ms. Fakih said.

“There is a real, palpable sense of fear and hatred for these facilities and what they stood for,” she said.
445 2013-05-18 Top-ranked Novak Djokovic wasted a chance to serve out the match and was beaten, 2-6, 7-5, 6-4, by sixth-seeded Tomas Berdych in the Italian Open quarterfinals in Rome on Friday.

In the semifinals, Berdych will face Rafael Nadal, who defeated David Ferrer, 6-4, 4-6, 6-2. Roger Federer overcame an early break in the second set to edge Jerzy Janowicz, 6-4, 7-6 (2). Federer will play 36th-ranked Benoit Paire, who routed Marcel Granollers, 6-1, 6-0.

On the women’s side, top-ranked Serena Williams rolled past Carla Suarez Navarro, 6-2, 6-0, to extend her winning streak to a career-best 22 matches. She will face the qualifier Simona Halep, who rallied past Jelena Jankovic, 4-6, 6-0, 7-5.

The two-time defending champion, Maria Sharapova, withdrew before her match with Sara Errani because of illness. Errani will face Victoria Azarenka, who held off Sam Stosur, 6-4, 1-6, 6-3.
446 2013-05-18 MOSCOW — A throng of thousands led by priests in black robes surged through police cordons in downtown Tbilisi, Georgia, on Friday and attacked a group of about 50 gay rights demonstrators.

Carrying banners reading “No to mental genocide” and “No to gays,” the masses of mostly young men began by hurling rocks and eggs at the gay rights demonstrators.

The police pushed most of the demonstrators onto yellow minibuses to evacuate them from the scene, but, the attackers swarmed the buses, trying to break the windows with metal gratings, trash cans, rocks and even fists.

At least 12 people were reported hospitalized, including three police officers and eight or nine of the gay rights marchers.

“They wanted to kill all of us,” said Irakli Vacharadze, the head of Identoba, the Tbilisi-based gay rights advocacy group that organized the rally.
447 2013-05-18 It is essential that we have a system of strong global rules to limit the potentially destabilizing risks associated with derivatives trading. But that objective requires more than seeking to apply United States law as broadly as possible to overseas business, as implied in a recent editorial (“A Disappointing Debut,” May 6).

The “my way or the highway” approach by any one jurisdiction is unworkable in the global derivatives markets, where conflicting and overlapping rules could cause significant cost and confusion and drive the major players — as well as many jobs — out of the United States. It would also remove any incentive for foreign regulators to engage in dialogue with us as they shape their own regulatory regimes.

Instead, the Securities and Exchange Commission’s unanimous proposal would require foreign businesses with a significant connection to the United States to comply with our rules unless the S.E.C. determines that their home country rules are comparable.

The S.E.C. could also withdraw its determination. The editorial says our proposal “implies that foreign regulation will be adequate.” But if foreign rules are not comparable, those businesses would be required to comply with our rules.

Further, foreign branches of American banks engaged in cross-border transactions would be subject to American capital and margin requirements established by United States banking regulators as well as the appropriate S.E.C. requirements for their transactions.

The rules that the S.E.C. has proposed are robust and designed to address systemic risk flowing back to American shores while also promoting strong rules around the world.
448 2013-05-18 For every musical genre there is usually an event that more people claim to have attended than could possibly have been there. In rock, the Woodstock Music and Art Fair in 1969 leads a long list of touchstones. Many would cite Benny Goodman’s Jan. 16, 1938, Carnegie Hall concert as Woodstock’s swing equivalent. For cabaret, a prime date is May 19, 1968, when Mabel Mercer and Bobby Short, who are now regarded as the field’s patron saints, shared the stage at Town Hall in a concert recorded by Atlantic Records.

That night’s 45th anniversary was celebrated at the same hall on Thursday evening in a concert titled “Remembering Mabel and Bobby,” produced by the Mabel Mercer Foundation, an organization founded by Donald Smith, who died last year. The foundation has since been revitalized by its new executive director, the singer and actress K T Sullivan, a close friend of Smith’s, who has put it on a sound financial footing.

The evening’s parade of talent was led off by Ms. Sullivan, zany and glamorous, singing Cole Porter’s “I’m Throwing a Ball Tonight.” It ended more than three hours later with the assembled guests singing Cy Coleman and Carolyn Leigh’s “Here’s to Us,” from the show “Little Me.”

One of Ms. Sullivan’s announced goals has been to bridge the generation gap by discovering and nurturing younger talent, of which there is no dearth. But so far, the reception of young blood by the core cabaret audience, which is mostly over 60, has been cool. The only performer to bring this concert’s audience spontaneously to its feet was Julie Wilson, now 88, making a rare stage appearance, talk-singing “But Beautiful.”

After Ms. Wilson, the most prominent Mercer acolyte was Andrea Marcovicci, whose unfortunate song choice, “Did You Cross Over to Sneden’s?,” written for Mercer by Alec Wilder, is an arch pseudo-art song that has aged poorly.

The leading acolytes of Short included the surreally suave singer and pianist Steve Ross, whose light touch was welcome in an evening in which too many of the guests belted their numbers, and that ur-sophisticate, the singer and pianist Eric Comstock, performing an expertly re-harmonized version of Cole Porter’s “All of You.” He accompanied his wife, Barbara Fasano, in a version of “Remind Me” that was the strongest performance I’ve heard her give.

I also liked Karen Oberlin’s thoughtful, moody “Something to Live For”; Joyce Breach’s warm, intimate “These Foolish Things (Remind Me of You)”; and Larry Woodard’s “Why Did I Choose You?” The evening’s brightest new discovery, Eric Yves Garcia, is a handsome young singer and pianist with genuine star quality, who played and sang “I Can’t Get Started.”
449 2013-05-18 “I’m afraid this niching of women is a way to get around the systemic problems” that need to be addressed through public policy, she said. Ms. Olen also said that some of the advice for women, like to cut back on shopping, is unhelpful at best and sexist at worst.

A 2011 Gallup poll showed that men spend $11 more a day than women, Ms. Olen wrote in her book.

Annamaria Lusardi, a professor of economics and accountancy at George Washington University and the academic director of the Global Financial Literacy Excellence Center, said the idea “that women spend more is a myth.”

But she said there is a clear gender difference when it comes to financial literacy, not just in this country but around the world.

Professor Lusardi was the co-author of a study of eight countries — the United States, Japan, New Zealand, Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden, Italy and Russia — that found that the overall level of financial literacy was low. According to the study, Americans had a harder time with simple calculations, but no country stood out as being particularly knowledgeable.

The study, “Financial Literacy Around the World: An Overview,” was published in 2011 in The Journal of Pension Economics and Finance.

Professor Lusardi said women in all the countries studied were less likely than men to correctly answer questions about financial literacy, particularly those that used technical terms. The more sophisticated the question and the more financial jargon that was used, the less likely women were to answer the questions correctly, she said.

But she said the take-away shouldn’t be that women were more ignorant.

Here’s one example: “Buying a single company’s stock usually provides a safer return than a stock mutual fund.” The answer options are true, false, do not know or refuse to answer. (The answer is false.)

In the United States, men answered correctly 57.1 percent of the time, compared with 46.8 percent of women. In Germany, both sexes picked the right answer more often than those in the United States did, but the difference between the sexes was similar, with 67.6 percent men and 56.8 percent of women scoring correctly.

But, and this is interesting, “When we took away the ‘do not know’ option, women were no less likely to choose the wrong answer,” Professor Lusardi said. “So if forced to pick an answer, women seem to know as much as men.”

When women and men were asked to self-assess their financial knowledge, men tended to give themselves high scores — even when that is not warranted by their actual knowledge — while women tended to give themselves lower scores.

“Women are aware of their lack of knowledge,” Professor Lusardi said, while “men are less willing to admit what they don’t know.”

Manisha Thakor, a financial adviser who runs MoneyZen Wealth Management and specializes in helping women, agreed that everyone struggled with financial information.

Investing has become more complex, she said, “and formal education in the traditional academic setting hasn’t kept up. Both genders are confused, but my experience as a professional is that women may be more willing to ask for information.”

Ms. Thakor compared it to the cliché that women were more inclined to ask for directions than men.

Men also experience financial stereotyping, she said, because society puts a lot of pressure on men to understand, or at least to pretend to understand, the ins and out of finances.

“I will say that the default lingo of the financial services industry is male-speak,” Ms. Thakor said, referring to terms like “play the market” or “dominating the field.”

“It sounds like a battle,” she said. And such analogies tend to make women feel excluded.

Ms. Olen said that sports terms can be difficult for some women, particularly those of an older generation who may not have grown up playing team sports. But that doesn’t mean women should be advised by only women or be talked to differently than men, she said.

“A good adviser, male or female, should be able to do this,” Ms. Olen said. “All talk should be understood by both genders.”

As she writes in her book, “There is a fine line between making the industry more friendly to women and overtly condescending to them, and frankly, it is a line few have managed to tread successfully.”

Tahira K. Hira, a professor of personal finance and consumer economics at Iowa State University, said her research had shown that men and women had different learning styles. Men find it easier to learn from technology, she said, while women prefer to learn from a person. Catering to those differences, she said, can be helpful.

“Most of us agree that women are conditioned differently than men about money,” Professor Hira said. “Even in this day and age, we have different expectations for our daughters than our sons.”

What about the often-cited idea that women are more averse to risk than men?

“In my view, we don’t have convincing evidence that women invest in less risky assets then men,“ Professor Lusardi said.

In fact, Julie Nelson, the chairwoman of the economics department at the University of Massachusetts Boston, reviewed 24 papers that reported women were less likely to take financial or gambling risks. She found that the papers consistently exaggerated relatively small statistical differences.

“The stereotype that men take more risks than women is very strong,” she said, but it doesn’t hold up under scrutiny. She said the risk-taking behavior of men and women was more alike than different, for the most part.

Besides, as Professor Nelson and others point out, greater risk-taking doesn’t always promise a better return.

Because of the gender gap in income and life expectancy, women may need different financial projections. But, she said, “I find it disempowering to say women have special needs when it comes to understanding finances.”
450 2013-05-18 European auto sales broke an 18-month losing streak in April, industry data showed on Friday. But don’t pop open the Champagne just yet: the increase was mostly a trick of the calendar.

New car registrations in the 27-nation European Union rose 1.7 percent in April from a year earlier, the first increase since September 2011, the European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association reported from Brussels.

But the association pegged that improvement mainly to the fact that April had two more business days this year than last.

Cara McLaughlin, a spokeswoman for the automakers’ association, said that was because the Easter holiday fell in March this year instead of in April as in 2012. Even with the extra days, she said, the year-over-year comparison was underwhelming, as car sales in April 2012 in the European Union were the worst on record for that month.

“We cannot talk about the market picking up at this stage,” she said.

The overall trend in car sales remains a dismal one: April sales, at just over one million units, were still the third-lowest total recorded for that month since the association started compiling the data in 1990.
451 2013-05-19 KRISKO--Robert (Kris) Krisko, of Buckingham, PA passed away on Tuesday, May 14, 2013 at his residence. He was formerly employed as a Chief Financial Officer with Skandia Reinsurance Company of New York City for 20 years. Robert was a US Naval Vete...
452 2013-05-19 FENNIMORE--Linda, 67, died on February 23. Renowned jazz violinist, consummate entertainer and lover of life. Memorial service on June 10. Details: clarkchild@aol.com....
453 2013-05-19 Steven A. Cohen, rather than be subject to broad questions from prosecutors, is expected to assert his constitutional right against self-incrimination....
454 2013-05-19 If shareholders separate the jobs of chairman and chief executive — positions that Jamie Dimon has held since 2008 — it would signal a shift in the balance of power in corporate America....
455 2013-05-19 George William Johnston and Eric Quinn Price were married Saturday on Gibson Island in Maryland. Judge M. Brooke Murdock of Baltimore Circuit Court officiated at the home of Jonathan Hyde, a friend of the couple.

Mr. Johnston, 62, is a senior partner, in Baltimore, in Venable, a law firm. He graduated from Johns Hopkins and received a law degree from Georgetown.

He is the son of the late Mary Jane Johnston and the late Norman F. Johnston, who lived in Cazenovia, N.Y.

Mr. Price, 42, is a human-resources consultant in Baltimore. Until January, he was the corporate trainer at Dunbar, which operates armored trucks, in Hunt Valley, Md. He graduated from Towson State University. He is a director of the Next Ice Age, a figure skating ensemble in Baltimore.

He is the son of Barry W. Schriefer of Dundalk, Md., and the late Janice M. Price, who lived in Baltimore.
456 2013-05-19 Dylan Donahue scored with 13 seconds left to lift top-seeded Syracuse past Yale, 7-6, in the N.C.A.A. tournament quarterfinals. In the other quarterfinal in College Park, Md., Steve Mock scored seven goals and unseeded Cornell routed third-seeded Ohio State, 16-6.
457 2013-05-19 PRICE MOVES ARE OFTEN INEXPLICABLE Even if changes in stock prices are unpredictable, as efficient markets theory suggests, we should be able to explain these changes after the fact. That is, we should be able to identify the news that causes stock prices to rise and fall. Sometimes we can, but often we can’t.

In 1981, Robert J. Shiller, a regular contributor to this column and an economics professor at Yale, published a paper in The American Economic Review called, “Do Stock Prices Move Too Much to Be Justified by Subsequent Changes in Dividends?” He argued that stock prices were too volatile. In particular, they fluctuated much more than a rational valuation of the underlying fundamentals would.

Mr. Shiller’s paper prompted a storm of controversy. My reading of the subsequent academic literature is that his conclusions, though not all his techniques, have survived the debate. Stock prices seem to have a life of their own.

Advocates of market rationality now say that stock prices move in response to changing risk premiums, though they can’t explain why risk premiums move as they do. Others suggest that the market moves in response to irrational waves of optimism and pessimism, what John Maynard Keynes called the “animal spirits” of investors. Either approach is really just an admission of economists’ ignorance about what moves the market.

HOLDING STOCKS IS A GOOD BET The large, often inexplicable movements in stock prices might deter someone from holding stocks in the first place. Many Americans, even some with significant financial assets, avoid stocks altogether. But doing so is a mistake, because the risk of holding stocks is amply rewarded.

In 1985, Rajnish Mehra and Edward C. Prescott, both now at Arizona State University, published a paper in the Journal of Monetary Economics called “The Equity Premium: A Puzzle.” They pointed out that over a long time span, stocks have earned, on average, about 6 percent more per year than safe assets like Treasury bills. This large premium, they said, is hard to explain with standard economic models. Sure, stocks are risky, so you can never be certain you’ll earn the premium, but they are not risky enough to justify such a large expected return.

Since the paper was published, economists have made some limited progress in explaining the equity premium. In any event, the large premium has convinced most of us that stocks should be part of everyone’s financial plan. I allocate 60 percent of my financial assets to equities.

Stocks may be an especially good deal today. According to a recent study by two economists at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, given the low level of interest rates, the equity premium now is the highest it has been in 50 years.

DIVERSIFICATION IS ESSENTIAL Every time a company experiences a catastrophic decline — consider Enron or Lehman Brothers — reports emerge about employees who held most of their wealth in company stock. These stories leave economists slapping their heads. If there is one thing we know for sure, it is that sensible financial management requires diversification.

So, if you have more than 5 percent of your assets in any one company, call your broker and sell. Doing otherwise means exposing yourself to extra risk without extra reward.

SMART INVESTORS THINK GLOBALLY One widely documented failure of diversification is what economists call home bias. People tend to invest disproportionately in their home country.

Most economists take a more global perspective. The United States represents a bit under half of the world’s stock portfolio. Because Europe, Japan and the emerging markets don’t move in lock step with the United States, it makes sense to invest abroad as well.

Which brings me back to my mother’s question: If I could pick just one stock for someone to buy, what would it be? I would now suggest something like the Vanguard Total World Stock exchange-traded fund, which started trading in 2008. In one package, you can get low cost and maximal diversification. It may not be as exciting as trying to pick the next Apple or Google, but you’ll sleep better at night.
458 2013-05-19 Re “Friend of the Corporation” (May 5), about rulings by the Supreme Court during the tenure of Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr.:

The companies cited as beneficiaries of recent rulings by the court — AT&T, Comcast and Wal-Mart — are huge corporations, and their policy interests have little in common with the concerns of most American businesses. So why repeatedly call those rulings “pro-business”?

Countless small businesses will be harmed as a result of weakening antitrust law and by allowing mandatory-arbitration clauses to preclude class-action remedies. Small-business owners, like the rest of us, have no viable recourse against harm by global corporations unless they can team up to challenge abuses.

Needlessly broad labels like “pro-business” obfuscate whose interests really are at stake.

The writer is co-director of the American Independent Business Alliance.
459 2013-05-19 American and South Korean officials have speculated that the North’s young leader, Kim Jong-un, might be hoping to force the Obama administration and South Korea to offer major concessions to stop its threats, a move Washington and Seoul have so far been unwilling to take.

Some analysts have also suggested that a missile test might have an upside: allowing Mr. Kim to tell his people he had taken action after months of sensational warnings against Washington and Seoul, but to do so without provoking hostilities.

A spokesman for the Defense Ministry, Kim Min-seok, said that two missiles had been launched in the morning and another in the afternoon.

“We remain vigilant and prepared in case the launching of these missiles might be followed by a military provocation by the North,” Mr. Kim said.

North Korea last launched short-range missiles in February and March. Such tests do not draw as much attention as the North’s longer-range ballistic missiles, which the country was barred from launching under United Nations resolutions.

In recent months, North Korea has threatened to strike the United States with nuclear-tipped missiles, although American intelligence agencies remain divided over how close it has come to mastering such technology.

Officials in the region have been watching for North Korean missile tests since the South detected mobile launching vehicles on the North’s east coast early last month. The vehicles carried Musudan missiles, which have never been tested.

This month, American officials said North Korea had withdrawn the Musudan launching vehicles, prompting speculation that it wanted to de-escalate tensions or, perhaps, was moving the missiles out of view of spy satellites.

The tests of the shorter-range missiles followed a summit meeting on May 7 between President Obama and his South Korean counterpart, Park Geun-hye, in which the two leaders made no new overtures toward the North.

Glyn T. Davies, the top American envoy on North Korea, completed a trip last week to Seoul, Beijing and Tokyo, where he discussed how to deal with the North’s nuclear and missile threats.

Tensions on the divided peninsula appear to have decreased in recent weeks, since the United States and South Korea completed their major annual military drills. The drills had angered the North.

With the apparent easing, Washington and its allies have recently revived diplomatic efforts to try to get North Korea committed to dismantling its nuclear weapons, which the North has recently said it would never give up.

On Saturday, Caitlin Hayden, a spokeswoman for the United States National Security Council, said that North Korea “will achieve nothing by threats or provocations” — which she said would further isolate the country.

“We continue to urge the North Korean leadership to heed President Obama’s call to choose the path of peace and come into compliance with its international obligations,” she said.
460 2013-05-19 At an Oscars party earlier this year, Ms. Jones was seen in the company of the actor Liam Hemsworth, who was engaged to Miley Cyrus, America’s on-again-off-again sweetheart. She has been linked as well with Matthew Vaughn, her “X-Men” director, who is married to the model Claudia Schiffer, and Noah Miller, the director of her latest film, “Sweetwater,” a Western. The celebrity press has branded her as a coldblooded temptress, a homewrecker. Brian Moylan called her “a human ice luge” on Gawker.

In person Ms. Jones did little to counter these impressions. She shook a reporter’s hand wanly. In conversation, she studiously averted her eyes. Nor would she dish about her off-screen romances. “I’m not trying to sell myself,” Ms. Jones said matter-of-factly. “I wouldn’t know how.”

Actually, “she’s a little bit shy,” said Matthew Weiner, the creator of “Mad Men.” Yet this reticence, if that’s what it is, has succeeded in turning Ms. Jones, and her character, into objects of redoubled scrutiny. Though Betty has appeared only occasionally on “Mad Men” this season, she remains arguably the series’ most polarizing figure. Some see her as a victim, deserving of empathy; others as a dolled-up variation on an American archetype, the uptight suburban matron.

“That was the fear for me,” Ms. Jones said, “that we’d be in the third season, and you’d hate the character.”

Ms. Jones regards Betty with compassion. “She is really searching for something, but doesn’t know herself well enough to know what might make her happy,” she said. If Betty seems unmoored, “that’s because she is a little girl, an orphan,” Ms. Jones said. “She has a childlike emotional response to things. You have to treat that very, very tenderly.”

Audiences have on the whole been less kind, some viewers dubbing her “fat Betty,” “selfish Betty” or “weird Betty” for her morose attitude and flinty behavior with her children, especially her adolescent daughter, Sally, toward whom she seems to harbor an unseemly mix of competitiveness and rage.

In the season’s April premiere, Betty seemed to try a form of deranged foreplay, telling her husband she would happily help him rape a young houseguest, Sandy, slumbering peacefully in the next room.

“Betty has a sick sense of humor,” Ms. Jones said. “People need to realize that in that scene, Betty is just basically trying to make Henry blush. “

Nonetheless, the character’s tease, or taunt, prompted Amy Sullivan, a correspondent for National Journal, to dismiss Betty in a post on theatlantic.com as “a spoiled yet desperately sad adolescent with a few misfiring synapses.”

But such barbs are mild compared with the scorn heaped on Ms. Jones herself by the gossip industry. “Her treatment is totally unfair,” Ms. Vargas-Cooper said. But she thinks she understands it: Betty, and by extension Ms. Jones, “represents the frosty girl in high school who inspired rage because she’s just untouched,” she said. “Nothing seems to affect her. She is the popular girl who devastates lives.” Unlike Betty, Ms. Jones, has demonstrated a fierce independence, as single mother to Xander, her 20-month-old son, whose father she has steadfastly refused to name. Was it the actor Michael Fassbender, as has been speculated? Or is it Mr. Vaughn?

“That’s my son’s business,” she said. “It’s not the public’s business.”

Fans might relate better to her if she did discuss her private life, but the prospect seems not to interest her. “Jack Nicholson once told me: ‘You should never give your personal life away, otherwise people will pick you apart. They’ll never believe in your character.’ ”

Critics have disparaged her as stilted and affectless on “Saturday Night Live” last fall. But Mr. Weiner cast her, he said, “because she was the best actress I saw for that part. If people think she’s Betty, it’s because she is that good.”

While consistently guarded, Ms. Jones can be self-mocking. “Women should have lots of secrets,” she said, a rare gleam of mischief in her eye. “It’s our right to have secrets. Otherwise, what would we write in our memoirs?”

She is forthcoming, though, about her appearance, which she has refined, she said, to counter Betty’s girdled period image. “Most of my choices are my ultramodern and very thought-out,” she said.

On the red carpet, meanwhile, “I want to do things that are shocking.” Critics dismissed the stiffly bibbed Prabal Gurung gown she wore to the Screen Actors Guild Awards in January, but “I wanted to go extreme in hair and makeup, like a Bowie character, maybe,” Ms. Jones said. “I thought that might be a little confusing, which I like.”

She accented the trim black Chanel dress she wore last week to the gala for the Costume Institute at the Metropolitan Museum of Art with messily coiled hair and masklike eyes, prompting self-appointed red carpet pundits to quip that she looked like Batman, or worse, like the white swan’s evil double.

So what? “Those people don’t have degrees in fashion,” Ms. Jones said. “Why would I care what they say?”

Yes, she can be thorny. But in the show’s sixth and penultimate season, her character has softened a bit, standing by her man as he vaults up the political ladder. She has yet to pursue a career herself, however, other than an abortive attempt to return to modeling. Though Betty is seen on the show reading “The Feminine Mystique,” Ms. Jones said, she “would rather read fashion magazines, detective fiction, romance novels. She reads for escape. She wants to be informed — she is married to a politician. But I don’t think she wants to be that aware of the times.”

Ms. Jones herself reads ravenously, up to three books a week, most recently the Patrick Melrose cycle of novels, whose protagonist seems in a hurry to kill himself with drugs and drink. The books affected her dreams, she said, “and my dreams affect how my day goes. I’d say for a time they darkened my outlook.”

In many respects she is still the girl from Sioux Falls, S.D., who ventured to New York to make a name for herself but hung on all the while to a stern Midwestern pragmatism. She is frugal. “I wasn’t brought up with money,” she said. “I don’t think I’d spend more than $150 on a shirt.” She is orderly. “I’m almost O.C.D.,” she said. “You will never find a piece of clothing on my floor. I can’t relax if I’m sitting in a mess.” She has passed that fastidiousness to her son. “His first word was ‘Mama,’ ” she said. “His second was ‘back,’ ‘cause I keeping saying, ‘Put it back.’ ”

She was a straight-A student. “But in high school, I started bucking the system,” she said. “I didn’t understand why I had to learn the periodic table.”

And her recalcitrance seems not to have mellowed over the years. Ms. Jones is inclined to question most everything, from the chicken fingers she is served at lunch (“not what I expected,” she remarked with a faint curl of her lip) to conventional child-rearing practices.

Deliberately provocative, she has confided in interviews that after giving birth to her son, she ate his placenta. “It was like taking a vitamin blended into a smoothie,” she said unabashedly, explaining that the practice is a common folk remedy against postpartum blues. Maybe she shouldn’t have been so candid, Ms. Jones said, adding with pinch of sarcasm: “I’m a mammal. I nursed. I did all kinds of weird stuff.”

Earth-mother stuff, that is, that her character would scarcely have contemplated. Betty, as the series winds to a close next year, may never learn to embrace the unfettered joys of motherhood. Certainly, Ms. Jones suggested, life’s fundamental pleasures will continue to elude her.

As perhaps they should. “God forbid Betty becomes very happy,” she said. “Because then I’ll be bored stiff.”
461 2013-05-19 What neither Larry Summers nor Glenn Hubbard address adequately is concentrated wealth. Having worked in the financial-services industry and raised a family for the last 30 years, I’ve seen the recurring series of asset bubbles and middle-class compression in this country, both of which, I believe, are connected with the fact that virtually all of our economic growth of the last three decades has been swept into a very small corner. It’s time we had some serious economic research into how concentrated wealth impedes growth. C. ERIC CALLOW, La Cañada Flintridge, Calif.

“The space between their views roughly defines the American center.” False. Both Hubbard and Summers are well to the right of public opinion. JOHN T., New York, posted on nytimes.com

Adam Davidson hoped Hubbard and Summers could reach an agreement that would inspire Congress to break its deadlock over fiscal policy. The solution, which dares not speak its name, is inflation. Moderate inflation could increase sales revenues, because consumers rush to purchase goods before prices go up. It could increase income-tax revenues, because workers experience bracket creep as their wages rise. It could reduce deficits because debts and entitlements are paid off with deflated dollars. For this to work, the Fed must keep interest rates lower than the inflation rate, which it’s already doing. With no need for compromise, each party can retain its ideological purity, blame its opponents and take credit for reducing the deficit and reviving the economy. ROBERT SILVERMAN, Wimauma, Fla.

THE BEST EDUCATION MONEY CAN BUY?

The private school that Jenny Anderson wrote about, Avenues, says it wants to build humility in its students. I attended Horace Mann for two years in the 1970s. My middle-class parents thought I was becoming an entitled little snot. They pulled me out and sent me to the local public school. Let me tell you, there was no better lesson in humility than that. GLORIA HOWARD, Brooklyn, posted on nytimes.com

Jenny Anderson failed to cover any of the middle-class families that are making extraordinary sacrifices to send their children to the Avenues school. She also managed to target an individual first-grader by including an unattributed quote saying that the child was not “what this school should be.” Suri Cruise is not a cultural artifact; she’s a kid. CATHERINE HOOPER, Parent of a second-grader at Avenues, New York

The spirit of the people working with Y Combinator is exciting, but it can be shallow. Can we compete in a global economy selling T-shirts and Web sites? Can a country of entrepreneurs who make and sell nothing survive? M. ROSE BEST, Boston, posted on nytimes.com

When I talk to people about why women and minorities are underrepresented in venture-capital-backed start-ups, I hear this all the time: Investors are looking for entrepreneurs who look like Mark Zuckerberg. . . . People usually mean this in the broader sense: that investors look at young white men differently than they look at entrepreneurs with different demographic profiles. Paul Graham deserves credit for interrogating his biases and sharing at least some of the results. (He’s previously noted that Y Combinator was more receptive to pitches after lunch.) But that self-reflection is the exception in Silicon Valley, not the norm. The venture capitalists who pack Y Combinator’s demo days have their own hidden biases. . . . How should entrepreneurs prepare? Perhaps start with a hoodie. JOHN TOZZI on The New Entrepreneur blog on businessweek.com
462 2013-05-20 The Times’s Charles Duhigg on the financial practices of Apple and a corporate culture that pushed for great innovation, in both products and tax strategies.
463 2013-05-20 Nine Wall Street firms have been actively involved in creating an alternative to one of Bloomberg L.P.’s most widely used programs, its chat messaging network, people briefed on the effort said....
464 2013-05-20 Coming soon....
465 2013-05-20 Apple’s stock has taken a brutal beating since last year, but a report says the company’s retail stores are bringing in more money per customer than ever....
466 2013-05-20 Beth Hoff, senior vice president for East Coast sales at NCM Media Networks, New York, was named to a new post, senior vice president for marketing partnerships. Dan Thomas joins the company to succeed her; he had been senior vice president for corporate sales development at the Gannett Company. NCM Media Networks is part of National CineMedia,

Jeff Kenyon, executive vice president and group planning director at BBDO New York, was promoted to head of planning, a post that had been vacant. BBDO New York is part of the BBDO North America division of BBDO Worldwide, owned by the Omnicom Group.

Jason Krebs joined Blip, New York, in a new post, president for sales and marketing. He had most recently been chief media officer at Tremor Video.

Kaya Lobaczewski joined Horizon Media, New York, as vice president for corporate communications, assuming duties from Scott Berwitz, who had been director for corporate communications before he left to join Mindshare, New York, part of the GroupM unit of WPP, as corporate communications director. Ms. Lobaczewski had been associate director of communications for the United States offices of DDB Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group.

Steve Lombardo joined the Washington office of Burson-Marsteller, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands division of WPP, as United States public affairs and crisis chairman. He succeeds Nate Tibbits, who opened his own consultancy, Blackwood Advisory. Mr. Lombardo had most recently been global chief executive at StrategyOne, part of Daniel J. Edelman Inc.

Noah Mallin joined the Online Publishers Association, New York, as vice president for marketing, assuming duties from Grant Schneider, who had served as acting head of marketing for the last six months. Mr. Mallin had been group director for social marketing at Digitas, New York, part of the Publicis Groupe.

Brad B. McCormick joined Moroch, Dallas, in a new post, chief digital officer. He had been a consultant, specializing in digital strategy and social engagement, at 10 Louder Strategies, Austin, Tex.

Millennial Media, Baltimore, expanded to Japan, opening an office in Toyko and hiring John Greiner as managing director for Japan; he had most recently been president at MonkeyPaw Games. Millennial Media also has offices in Hamburg, Jakarta, London, Paris and Singapore.

Eric Mower & Associates, Syracuse, opened Hungry Pup Studio, a design service intended to produce high-volume work quickly and economically for clients that do not want other services like creative concepts or strategic planning. Three executives were named to oversee Hungry Pup Studio: Joe DiVirgilio, director for client services; Valerie Hill, director for operations; and Matt Read, senior marketing services manager.

Promotions.com, New York, was acquired by ePrize, Pleasant Ridge, Mich., which helps companies operate sweepstakes, contests and promotions. Financial terms were not disclosed. Fourteen out of 20 employees of Promotions.com, located in the New York headquarters and an office in Chicago, will join the ePrize offices in those cities.

Ivar Rodriguez joined the New York office of Dieste in a new post, group creative director. He had been creative director at Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners, New York, part of MDC Partners. Dieste is part of the Diversified Agency Services division of the Omnicom Group.

Melinda Smart joined McCann Detroit in a new post, executive vice president and integrated client services director. She has most recently been freelancing and before that was business strategy director at Merkley & Partners, New York, part of the Omnicom Group. McCann Detroit is the Birmingham, Mich., office of McCann Erickson Worldwide, part of the McCann Worldgroup unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Ben Steele, a creative director at Hornall Anderson, Seattle, part of the Diversified Agency Services unit of the Omnicom Group, was promoted to a new post, executive creative director.

Xcel Energy, Minneapolis, named Space150, Minneapolis, as its first digital agency of record. Billings were not disclosed. Xcel had previously worked with digital agencies on a project basis.

Alex Yenni joined the New York office of Blast Radius, part of WPP, in a new post, strategy director. He had most recently been the lead digital planner on the Vitaminwater account at the New York office of SapientNitro, part of Sapient.
467 2013-05-20 The Wall Street bank is selling its remaining shares in the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, signaling the end of a highly profitable investment it made in 2006....
468 2013-05-20 The Times’s Jenna Wortham on the reaction to Yahoo’s acquisition of Tumblr and what it means for users.
469 2013-05-20 “Star Wars Rebels,” a new animated series set between Episodes III and IV of the live-action “Star Wars” movie saga, will have its debut on Disney Channel in fall 2014 before moving to its regular home on Disney XD....
470 2013-05-20 Actavis, a maker of generic drugs, agreed to buy the specialty pharmaceutical company Warner Chilcott for about $5 billion in stock after talks to sell itself to Valeant fell apart last month....
471 2013-05-20 The social media lessons from the latest Gordon Ramsay nightmare. Small-business confidence ticks up. The deficit problem is solved (for now). How to use a six-second video. Would you buy a point-of-sale system from Groupon?...
472 2013-05-20 This week’s Retro Report video on “crack babies” (infants born to addicted mothers) lays out how limited scientific studies in the 1980s led to predictions that a generation of children would be damaged for life. Those predictions turned out to be wrong. This supposed epidemic — one television reporter talks of a 500 percent increase in damaged babies — was kicked off by a study of just 23 infants that the lead researcher now says was blown out of proportion. And the shocking symptoms — like tremors and low birth weight — are not particular to cocaine-exposed babies, pediatric researchers say; they can be seen in many premature newborns.

The worrisome extrapolations made by researchers — including the one who first published disturbing findings about prenatal cocaine use — were only part of the problem. Major newspapers and magazines, including Rolling Stone, Newsweek, The Washington Post and The New York Times, ran articles and columns that went beyond the research. Network TV stars of that era, including Tom Brokaw, Peter Jennings and Dan Rather, also bear responsibility for broadcasting uncritical reports.

A much more serious problem, it turns out, is infants who are born with fetal alcohol syndrome.

Retro Report tells the story of the epidemic that wasn’t through firsthand accounts by some of those at the center of things: the researcher who put out the alarm, a pediatric expert who originally cast doubt on his findings and one of the original cocaine-exposed research subjects, a young woman whose life helped disprove the myth of what these infants would become.

The report is the third in a weekly series that will re-examine the leading stories of decades past. Videos are typically 10 to 12 minutes long and are part of a collaboration between The Times and Retro Report, a documentary news organization formed last year.

The online project was conceived of by Christopher Buck, a former television editor whose father was a founder of the Subway restaurant chain. Started with a grant from Mr. Buck, Retro Report, which has a staff of 12 journalists and 6 contributors, is a nonprofit online video news organization that aims to provide a thoughtful counterweight to today’s 24/7 news cycle.

Previous Retro Report videos can be found here.

Booming: Living Through the Middle Ages offers news and commentary about baby boomers, anchored by Michael Winerip. You can follow Booming via RSS here or visit nytimes.com/booming. You can reach us by e-mail at booming@nytimes.com.
473 2013-05-20 VIRGINIA BEACH — Two F.B.I. agents were killed in a training accident in Virginia, a spokeswoman for the agency said on Sunday.

The spokeswoman, Vanessa Torres, said the agents died on Friday afternoon off the coast of Virginia Beach, but she did not have further details.

The F.B.I. did not release the names of the agents, who were members of the Hostage Rescue Team based in Quantico, according to WAVY-TV in Norfolk.
474 2013-05-20 David Lawson scored his career-best fifth goal with 2 minutes 16 seconds remaining to lift Duke to a 12-11 win against Notre Dame in the N.C.A.A. men’s lacrosse quarterfinals in Indianapolis. The Blue Devils (14-5) advanced to play Cornell in Saturday’s semifinals in Philadelphia. In the other semifinal, Syracuse will play Denver, which beat North Carolina, 12-11, rallying from a 6-0 deficit.
475 2013-05-20 The Bangladeshi factory collapse should provoke more accountability on worker safety from companies, governments and the public....
476 2013-05-20 “A Carbon Trading System Worth Saving” (editorial, May 7) is correct that Europe’s carbon market is an important mechanism to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions that cause climate change. In fact, this conclusion is reinforced closer to home, by the success of New York and eight other states that have operated a carbon reduction program known as the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, or RGGI, since 2008.

RGGI demonstrates that protecting the environment in the United States can also promote job creation and a vibrant economy. An independent analysis has found that the first three years of the initiative have led to investments in clean energy that will reduce energy bills by $1.3 billion and create thousands of jobs regionwide.

In 2012, California followed RGGI’s lead by establishing its own market-based emission reduction program, and a handful of Canadian provinces are expected to join in the years ahead. Other nations, including Australia, New Zealand and South Korea, are also moving forward with market-based carbon reduction programs.

In a yearlong analysis completed in late 2012, RGGI states found that market factors similar to those seen in Europe caused a reduction in demand for emission allowances. Rather than declaring victory and going home, the states decided to make the program even more effective by reducing the cap approximately 45 percent. This cap reduction will ensure continued progress in reducing harmful emissions while increasing the economic benefits from reinvesting auction proceeds.

As Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said in his State of the State address, extreme storm events like Hurricanes Sandy and Irene demonstrate that we must continue to reduce the emissions that cause our climate to change.
477 2013-05-20 New rules to regulate derivatives, adopted last week by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, are a victory for Wall Street and a setback for financial reform. They may also signal worse things to come.

The regulations, required under the Dodd-Frank reform law, are intended to impose transparency and competition on the notoriously opaque multitrillion-dollar market for derivatives, which is dominated by five banks: JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs, Bank of America, Citigroup and Morgan Stanley.

In the run-up to the financial crisis — and since — the lack of transparency and competition has fostered recklessness and instability. But banks like opacity, because their outsized profits depend on keeping clients in the dark about what other clients pay in similar deals. Under the Dodd-Frank law, derivatives are supposed to be traded on “swap execution facilities,” which are to operate much like the exchanges that exist for equities and futures.

Even as the new rules shift much of the trading to those facilities, they will also preserve the ability of the banks to maintain their old practices.

For instance, the commission’s initial proposal called for hedge funds, asset managers and corporations to contact at least five banks when seeking prices for a derivatives contract. In a major concession to the banks, that number was lowered to two in the final rule. Sometime in 2014, it is supposed to rise to three, but that would still be inadequate. Worse, there’s always the risk that delayed rules will never go into effect.

The initial proposal also called for derivatives trading to take place on open electronic platforms. The final rules will allow much of the negotiation over derivative prices to take place over the phone, a practice that is difficult to monitor and prone to abuse.
478 2013-05-20 ¶American Frozen Food Institute, McLean, Va., named three agencies owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies to create a national consumer campaign for the newly formed Frozen Food Roundtable, composed of companies that include ConAgra Foods, General Mills, H.J. Heinz, Kellogg, Nestlé USA and Pinnacle Foods. Spending was estimated at $50 million. The agencies are McCann Erickson Worldwide, for advertising aimed at the general market; Casanova Pendrill, for advertising aimed at Hispanic consumers; and GolinHarris, for public relations. McCann Erickson will lead the effort.

¶Nick Pahade joined Poptent, Conshohocken, Pa., a video crowdsourcing company, as chief executive, assuming duties from Rick Parkhill, chairman, who had been acting chief executive since November. Mr. Pahade had most recently been North American president and chief executive at Initiative, New York, part of the Mediabrands unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

¶Karen Kaplan, president at Hill Holliday, Boston, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, was promoted to chief executive, succeeding Mike Sheehan, who becomes chairman.

¶Patrick Lafferty joined Bartle Bogle Hegarty, London, part of the Publicis Groupe, as chief executive for North America, overseeing offices in Los Angeles and New York. Mr. Lafferty, who will be based in New York, succeeds Greg Andersen, who left in September. Mr. Lafferty had been chief operating officer for North America at McCann Erickson Worldwide, New York, part of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

¶Robyn Simburger joined Havas Media as the new head of the Chicago office, with the title of executive vice president and managing director. She succeeds Lori Hiltz, who in August became chief executive of Havas Media North America. Ms. Simburger had been media director at Home Depot, Atlanta. Havas Media is part of Havas.

¶John B. Adams Jr., chairman at the Martin Agency, Richmond, Va., was named chairman of the Virginia Commonwealth University Brandcenter, Richmond. He succeeds Mike Hughes, president at Martin, which is part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
479 2013-05-20 Christine C. Quinn, the speaker, said she would work with state and city lawmakers to end the city’s participation in field tests.

“There is simply no reason why we’re having children be guinea pigs,” Ms. Quinn said. “For God’s sake, we pay these testing companies enough that they should do their own focus groups.”

But testing experts call field tests an essential part of designing high-quality exams, and say they help weed out troublesome items, like a reading passage about a pineapple and a hare that prompted widespread confusion in New York last year.

And supporters of the Common Core standards worry that the furor over field tests, along with growing skepticism among conservatives about the idea of standards embraced by the federal government, could undermine what they consider one of the most significant reforms to the American education system in decades.

“We’re seeing the early glimmers of a bigger fight,” said Frederick M. Hess, an education scholar at the . “The real question is if states can keep those concerns isolated.”

Field testing takes two forms. There are field-test questions included in the regular exams taken each spring, which make up as much as 25 percent of a test (New York officials would not release a precise figure for this year’s exams). And there are stand-alone tests devoted exclusively to trying out questions for future exams. Those are the ones coming in June; last year they were administered at more than 1,000 schools in New York City, during a 40-minute exam period.

Field-test questions have been a staple of standardized exams for generations. Most major tests, like Advanced Placement and the SAT, include items that do not count and are included simply to gauge whether the questions are worth using in the future.

The field-test questions can flag various issues, like the presence of arcane vocabulary, confusing instructions or poorly drawn diagrams. If a question proves to be too difficult, or seems to stump a particular demographic group, test makers often send the item back to the drawing board.

In the public education system, field testing has come under more intense scrutiny because state officials have a hand in designing the exams, and parents and teachers routinely complain about the series of tests children face.

With the debut of the Common Core standards, several states have already thrown out old exams and built new ones. Others are awaiting the creation of a national test in 2015, to be overseen by a consortium of states known as the Partnership for Assessment of Readiness for College and Careers.

New York was one of the first states to align its tests with the standards. The state introduced tougher exams in math and English this spring, to mixed reviews. Individual scores are used to determine whether students advance to the next grade; education officials expect the overall average to plummet.

But the shelf life of those exams may be limited if the state decides to adopt the national Common Core exam in 2015, as is expected. As a result, during the 2013-14 school year, the state will hold field tests for two different exams.

The state has defended its methods, saying the benefit of creating more stringent exams that emphasize deep thinking outweighs the inconvenience of field testing.

“The only people who would be hurt if we get rid of field tests are teachers and students,” said Ken Wagner, who oversees testing for the New York State . “When you have questions for any test, you want to make sure those questions are reliable.”

State officials declined to offer examples of questions that were improved through the field testing process, citing security concerns.

Mr. Wagner said the state would prefer to eliminate stand-alone field tests. The tests can be statistically unreliable, he said, since children are not as motivated if they know the exam has no consequences.

But ending the stand-alone tests would be costly, state officials said. The state would have to find places for all the field-test questions in the regular exams. There would then be too many field-test questions for a single student to handle, so additional versions of each regular exam would have to be printed; each version would have the same questions that count, but not the same field-test questions.

The state currently has a five-year, $32 million contract with , a testing company.

Zipporiah Mills, principal of Public School 261 in , was one of the those who sent back unopened field tests last year. She said administering the tests would require giving up too much instructional time.

“Families bring their children in bright and early because they want them to learn,” she said, “not because they want them to be test dummies.”
480 2013-05-20 When readers of “Americanah” first meet its Nigerian-born heroine, Ifemelu, she has come a long way in life. She holds a fellowship at Princeton. She is “the absolute love of my life” to the man she is dating, a black American named Blaine, who teaches at Yale. She writes a blog about racial issues that features her “irreverent, hectoring, funny and thought-provoking voice,” as one online admirer puts it, though readers of “Americanah” may find it more leaden. And she has an old flame in Nigeria, Obinze, who has never gotten over her.

But Ifemelu is dissatisfied. And Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, the immensely talented author of “Half of a Yellow Sun,” uses everyday issues to highlight her heroine’s resentments. However prestigious her career at Princeton, Ifemelu must travel to less-elite Trenton to have her hair braided — and she cares about hair so much that it is arguably this book’s second-biggest focal point. The complex balance of rational and national identities is its first and foremost concern.

At the Trenton salon, she is tended to by women from Mali and Senegal with whom she is perhaps supposed to feel a Pan-African kinship. But Ifemelu, like Ms. Adichie, bristles at facile generalizations. And she knows as much about splitting hair as she does about styling it. Though “Americanah” takes the shape of a long, star-crossed love story between Ifemelu and Obinze, it is most memorable for its fine-tuned, scathing observations about worldly Nigerians and the ways they create new identities out of pretension and aspiration.

“Half of a Yellow Sun” was just as fine-tuned. But it played out against the backdrop of the Biafran war, with a stark clarity that automatically gave it gravitas. “Americanah” is less authoritative, because its stakes are lower and because Ifemelu’s sharp opinions are not accompanied by a strong, aggressive personality. She drifts passively through a long, winding story. And “Americanah” comes dangerously close to the “exaggerated histrionics” and “improbable plots” that she ascribes to Nigerian, or Nollywood, films.

Once it establishes what Ifemelu’s life in America has become, “Americanah” flashes back to the story of how she left her homeland. And Ms. Adichie’s greatest writerly strength lies in the acuity of her descriptions. She writes of a Lagos filled with climbers, debating the merits of American affectations versus English ones for their children, gravitating to those who hold enough power to dispense favors. Ifemelu’s Aunty Uju enjoys a cozy setup as a general’s pampered mistress until she loses his protection and must flee to America for her life.

We hear Nigerian students acquiring snippets of American culture, arguing about pronunciation (should the first syllable of schedule sound like sked or shed?) and declaring their tastes in fiction. Naturally, Ms. Adichie has a withering eye for the kind of person who cares only about a book’s quota of big words.
481 2013-05-21 A segment on horse breeding called “Out to Stud” will be part of the 194th edition of “Real Sports With Bryant Gumbel,” which debuts Tuesday at 10 p.m. Eastern on HBO....
482 2013-05-21 Developers have expressed interest in making condominiums out of the Bialystoker Center for Nursing and Rehabilitation, a nine-story Art Deco building on the Lower East Side....
483 2013-05-21 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
484 2013-05-21 President Obama announced that 10 individuals would serve on a nonpartisan commission created to address voting issues that plagued the 2012 elections....
485 2013-05-21 The Hong Kong securities regulator announced on Tuesday that it had discovered possible financial irregularities at the just-shuttered Hong Kong Mercantile Exchange and said it referred the matter over to the police for investigation....
486 2013-05-21 Herbalife has hired PricewaterhouseCoopers as its auditor, replacing KPMG, which had resigned as the company’s auditor after it was revealed that a former partner had leaked secret information about clients to a third party....
487 2013-05-21 Mr. Tambor discusses his evolution into an “Internet guy” and why he doesn’t mind fans yelling at him....
488 2013-05-21 A Congressional investigation on Apple’s tax practices, laying out the use of a complex web of foreign subsidiaries to minimize tax liability, set the stage for a potential confrontation with Apple’s chief at a hearing on Tuesday....
489 2013-05-21 Apple’s chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, was testifying about how the company was able to avoid billions of dollars in taxes....
490 2013-05-21 I.B.M. will move its Watson artificial-intelligence technology into the business mainstream with an offering pitched as a smart assistant especially useful in industries with many customer service calls....
491 2013-05-21 Why would Apple executives try to avoid paying billions in taxes in the United States and around the world?
492 2013-05-21 The $662 million buyout bid for Pactera Technology International, an outsourcing firm, is the latest in a series of deals by private equity groups to privatize Chinese firms listed in the United States....
493 2013-05-21 Culture always starts with the owner. In companies where culture is well defined, it is reflected in every hiring decision. But it can be complicated....
494 2013-05-21 Contracted with third-party manufacturers in China to make Apple products which it then sold to Apple Distribution International. Paid little or no tax on $74 billion in profit made from 2009 to 2012.

A subsidiary of Apple Operations International, it had about 400 employees in 2012, and manufactured a line of specialty computers for sale in Europe.

100 percent owned by Apple Inc., this is a holding company that receives dividends from most of Apple’s offshore affiliates. It has no physical presence and has never had any employees.

According to a report by a Congressional panel, Apple has avoided billions in taxes through the use of international subsidiaries. Apple has subsidiaries in Ireland where the company has negotiated a special tax rate of 2 percent. These units contract with manufacturers to assemble Apple products, sell the products to other subsidiaries for distribution, and return the profits up the chain of companies in the form of dividends. But some of these subsidiaries do not have a stated tax residence and pay no taxes at all.

in Ireland, but have no country of
495 2013-05-21 As security at the border has tightened, pushing migrants to seek more remote and dangerous routes, the largest number of the deaths last year occurred along the punishing stretch of desert that spans the southernmost tip of the Border Patrol’s Tucson sector, the busiest along the border.

The only riskier stretch is the Rio Grande Valley sector in Texas, where, from Oct. 1 to April 30, law enforcement officers or ranchers found the bodies of 77 immigrants, or more than half the number of bodies recovered there in all of the past fiscal year: 150.

In that sector, the most deaths have occurred in Brooks County, small and struggling at 944 square miles, where the average household income is $25,000. The number of migrant remains recovered is on pace to double that of last year, a record for the county, at 129, said a county judge, Raul Ramirez. Most of the dead are believed to be from Central America, Judge Ramirez said.

In Tucson, the medical examiner’s office, which handles autopsies for the border counties in the Tucson sector — three of Arizona’s four border counties — received 49 sets of remains from Jan. 1 to May 9, Dr. Anderson said. Each was assigned a number, then photographed, cataloged, weighed and measured. Clothes, tattered by the elements and wildlife, were placed in plastic bags.

For years, identification of the remains was elusive because there were so few clues. Few immigrants from impoverished rural communities could be traced with dental records. ID cards, found in pockets and backpacks, were unreliable because many were forgeries, bought by Central Americans to elude the authorities in Mexico, which the migrants had to cross illegally before reaching the United States.

Assembling the remains, like linking a mandible that arrived in the office early this spring to a set of remains that was missing one, is like solving a grisly puzzle. It requires manually searching the color-coded paper case files lining the walls in Dr. Anderson’s office: one shelf for cases from the late 1990s, when there were few, and the rest for the more than 2,100 deaths since 2001.

“The cause and manner of death is easy: it’s either there or it’s undetermined,” said Dr. Gregory L. Hess, chief medical examiner in Pima County. “It’s what goes on in trying to identify the person that can take a long time.”

Early this month, the office unveiled a computerized mapping database bearing the records of 1,826 migrants who died in the desert, listing GPS coordinates for where they were found and, if known, their sex, age and cause of death. It gives the public the first comprehensive glimpse of the complexity of the problem. Combined, the hundreds of red dots that represent people who died of exposure to the intense desert heat and cold, by far the most common among the causes of death, look like an unshapely bruise.

The project began five years ago, through a partnership with Humane Borders, a nonprofit group that had already been plotting the deaths. An anonymous donor provided $175,000 to develop the database.

The lone mandible had been plucked from deep inside the desert near Three Points, west of Tucson. Angela Soler, a forensic anthropologist at the office, searched the database for bodies found in the same area. There were 52 in a six-mile radius.

Dr. Soler started by focusing on those that were closest. One was the complete body of a man found and identified in 2008. Another was found in 2012, an unidentified Hispanic man between 20 and 35, the most common demographic among dead migrants. She pulled the file and found that the body was missing a mandible. (DNA tests are under way to determine whether they are a match.)

“It took hours to do what might have taken months,” she said.

In March, the Pima County Medical Examiner’s Office asked the family of Mr. Cota, the migrant who disappeared in 2011, for his dental records to see if he was among the unidentified dead stored there. There were seven possible matches among the bodies found in Cochise County, for which the office handles autopsies and where Mr. Cota is believed to have entered the country, based on what he told his relatives on his last phone call.

A brother-in-law, who asked not to be identified because he feared the drug cartels that control the human-smuggling business, said the family had filed missing-person reports on both sides of the border; visited local hospitals, police stations and prisons in Arizona; and retraced Mr. Cota’s route, posting fliers bearing his name and photograph in communities along the way.

“Every door we’re knocking is closed,” the brother-in-law said. “Nothing opens.”

Mr. Cota lived for 20 years in California, most of it illegally, overstaying a visa. When his mother became deathly ill, he left for Los Mochis, in the Mexican state of Sinaloa, to say goodbye.

In September 2010, he tried to cross back through San Diego using a fake passport, but he was caught and imprisoned for 45 days. After his release, he tried twice to sneak across the border, without success. A relative eventually told him to go to a Mexican border city, Nogales, where a smuggler could bring him into Arizona “for a discounted rate,” his brother-in-law said.

On his last call, Mr. Cota said he was about to start his journey, but had to leave his cellphone behind. He promised to call again in six days.

On May 9, Robin C. Reineke, a cultural anthropologist at the medical examiner’s office, searched the database for a match, going through the cases from Cochise County one by one.

Mr. Cota was not among them. The search goes on.
496 2013-05-21 Grasshoppers, Switzerland’s most successful club, ended their longest wait for a trophy when they beat Basel on penalty kicks after a 1-1 draw in the Swiss Cup final in Bern.

The Zurich-based team, with a record 27 league championships, had not won one in 10 years.
497 2013-05-21 It was a counterterrorism training exercise that the two agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s elite hostage rescue unit had completed dozens of times before: rappelling from a helicopter onto the deck of a ship at sea.

But as Special Agents Christopher Lorek and Stephen Shaw began their descent on Friday onto a ship roughly a dozen miles off the coast of Virginia, the helicopter suddenly tilted because of a strong gust of wind. As the pilot tried to steady the aircraft, the two men, holding onto the ropes and loaded down with gear, lost their grips and fell.

By the time they were rescued from the water, one of them was dead. The other died soon after.

The episode, announced Sunday by the F.B.I., was the first time that an agent has died in the line of duty since December 2011. In the past 12 years, six others have been killed. The F.B.I. has about 14,000 agents.

Special Agents Lorek and Shaw are believed to have died from blunt trauma, according to a senior law enforcement official who provided details based on an initial investigation by the bureau. “Everything is still being looked at, but so far this is where the investigators think we are,” the official said. “Every part of this is under review.”

Special Agent Lorek, 41, had been a member of the hostage rescue unit, based in Quantico, Va., for six years. He was deployed to Alabama in February as part of a team that helped rescue a 5-year-old boy who was being held in an underground bunker. Special Agent Lorek provided support to the team that entered the bunker and killed the man holding the child hostage. Special Agent Shaw, 40, joined the unit two and half years ago.

The men, both married and fathers of two, lived near Quantico with their families. The bureau’s hostage rescue unit was created before the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles. It was formed to provide the federal government with the ability to respond to an episode similar to the one that had occurred at the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich, in which 11 Israeli athletes were killed after being taken hostage.
498 2013-05-21 Re “Is Yours More Corrupt Than Mine?” (column, May 12):

Gail Collins certainly has it right that endless scandals should lead to sweeping reform. But she doesn’t mention the reform that will have the most immediate transformative impact: comprehensive campaign finance reform built around a core of small donor matching funds.

Ethics and redistricting reform are indeed essential for long-term reform, but their impact is delayed. We won’t see any benefit from redistricting reform for another decade, and ethics reform just provides elected officials with better guidelines for behavior and, sometimes, a slightly better chance of being caught.

A “fair elections” system of campaign finance, with strong enforcement and voters empowered by public funding to become engaged, results in what Ms. Collins says we need: legislators being watched by someone other than lobbyists. Enough excuses. This month the Assembly passed a fair elections bill. Now it’s time for Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo to work with the Senate to do the same.
499 2013-05-21 Unlike many other issues, the disagreement about the death penalty in the United States does not correspond with the partisan divide.

Many Democratic and most Republican politicians continue to support capital punishment. Yet it is curious that those lawmakers who often express concerns about trusting the government on other issues seem to put so much faith in this life-or-death matter, especially when there are continuing questions about its fairness and justice.

Instead of rushing to send more dead men walking, Florida should send its death penalty walking.

The writer, an associate professor of theological ethics at Saint Louis University, is a former corrections officer with the Pinellas County Sheriff’s Department in Florida.
500 2013-05-21 It will be noisier than you are used to. Emotions will be higher than they are at home. The food will be awful. People will be drunk. The weather will be bad. Many of the supporters, even the ones cheering the loudest, will not appear to be having fun as we know it, and will be expressing their feelings in novel combinations of swear words. The discomfort, the din, the rudeness, the cleverness, the chanting, the verbal abuse, the unalloyed ecstasy, the abject despair, the love, the hatred — all these are part of the ritual, essential to even to the most meaningless, late-season, non-standings-affecting match.

Today’s Premier League is in fact a modern-day iteration of an old experience. As charged as the atmosphere still is, it has changed a lot since the dark days of the 1970s, ’80s and early ’90s, when English soccer was a byword for criminality, violence and hooliganism.

That was the time of the Hillsborough disaster, the Bradford City disaster and the Heysel Stadium disaster, when spectators were sometimes beaten senseless or burned or crushed to death in stadiums; when games were halted and teams were banned from playing outside England; when mayhem ruled the standing-room-only terraces; when rival fans controlled by criminal gangs fought not only in the streets and the stands but on the field, midmatch; when even the tough fans of continental Europe feared the thugs of England.

Pockets of violence still break out, as happened recently when fans from Millwall (team motto: “No One Likes Us, We Don’t Care,” sung to the tune of Rod Stewart’s “Sailing”) brawled with one another at Wembley during the F.A. Cup semifinal against Wigan. In Newcastle, the home fans ran riot after the team lost to Sunderland (one fan punched a police horse in the neck). But by and large, soccer has turned peaceful. The serious hooligans have been barred from games, their photographs circulated, their images captured on surveillance cameras, their passports confiscated when their teams play abroad, their whereabouts known.

Children and women now feel comfortable at matches. People are less likely to beat you up. The outlawing of all-standing terraced seating in the Premier League in the early 1990s means that fans have to buy tickets in advance and sit in assigned seats, so they are not crammed together and are easier to track. Police and stewards monitor the crowds and remove people caught drinking, committing violence, throwing things at one another or engaging in racist or other abuse.

“There’s been a huge decline in the kind of public disorder which dominated English football from the mid-’70s and late ’80s,” said Mark Perryman, a research fellow in sport and leisure culture at the University of Brighton and the author of “Ingerland: Travels with a Football Nation.”

“Going to a football match today is an entirely different kind of occasion.”

When he was a child in the 1970s, an Aston Villa fan said at a recent game against Chelsea, it was virtually impossible to go to an incident-free game.

“In the terraces when your team scored, everyone would lean forward, and the people in the front would be crushed against the barriers,” he said. “Lads would just fall down on the ground and disappear. It’s a lot better than it was.”

Still, if you come from America, where it is possible to sit next to a rival fan without fear of bodily harm, English soccer games can be disorienting, unnerving experiences.

RULE NO. 1: Stadiums are strictly segregated according to team allegiance. The team whose fans you are sitting with is the greatest sports team in the history of sports.

“I’ve been at a match when I was sat in the wrong end,” said Steve James, 47, a Manchester United fan, recalling an occasion when, desperate for tickets, he and his unable-to-keep-quiet mates found themselves in the Nottingham Forest supporters’ section during a crucial game. “The stewards will actually drag you out.”

At Goodison Park in Liverpool, where Everton was hosting West Ham recently, the Everton fans behind the goal in the rowdy Gwladys Street section of the stadium delivered a nonstop succession of elaborate chants expressing their love for Everton — players, coach, former players, former coaches — and their contempt for everyone else, including teams and players that were not there, like Manchester United.

One chant, to the tune of the French song “Alouette,” consisted of a long call-and-response recital of names — “Psycho Pat” and “Tricky Trev” were two of them — who, it turned out, played on the beloved Everton side of 1985, the club’s best year ever, when it won the league and the European Cup Winners’ Cup and (according to the fans) would have won much more had its inexorable push to victory not been thwarted by a series of unfortunate and unfair events.

Twenty-eight years is nothing. English soccer fans have very long memories.

RULE NO. 2: Fans are prejudiced on behalf of their players to the point where, if a player were to jump up and down on the bloodied corpse of an opponent during a match, the fans would accuse the opponent of faking it.

At one point in the Newcastle match, the Newcastle fans taunted the Liverpool fans by bringing up the shameful recent episode in which the Liverpool striker Luis Suárez bit the Chelsea defender Branislav Ivanovic on the arm (Suárez was barred for 10 matches).

Were the Liverpool fans ashamed by this reminder of Suárez’s immaturity and weirdness? They were not. To the tune of the part of “Sloop John B” that is about wanting to go home, the Liverpool fans praised Suárez’s machismo. “He bites who he wants,” they sang proudly. “He bites who he wants. Luis Suárez — he bites who he wants.”

Meanwhile, the Everton fans still speak with admiration about Duncan Ferguson, a team legend who, playing in Scotland early in his career, spent three months in prison after being convicted of assaulting an opposing player during a match.

It was not Ferguson’s fault, according to an Everton fan riding back to London on the train after the game.

The other player, he said, was not tough enough and “went crying to the police.”

RULE NO. 3: Sometimes, it feels as if you are in a police state.

Do not be surprised if, en route to the stadium, you are greeted by a phalanx of police officers, some whom may be riding horses and wearing riot helmets.

Do not be surprised if someone pats you down for illegal alcohol or “missiles” before letting you into the stadium.

Do not be surprised at being shunted, like a criminal, through an entrance gate so narrow it looks as if it were built for elves or people entering a peep show booth.

During a recent Sunderland match against Southampton, security guards patrolled the stands, ejecting fans who were shouting run-of-the-mill abuse at their opponents. At the Everton game, the guards walked up the aisles, making the people standing up go back to their seats. In Newcastle, the Liverpool fans were put in a kind of cordon sanitaire, escorted to and from the parking lot by the police to prevent them from coming into physical contact with the Newcastle supporters.

At the Chelsea-Aston Villa game, some Chelsea fans, unable to control their excitement after a score by Frank Lampard made him Chelsea’s career leader in goals, jumped over the barrier and rushed the field (this is known as a “pitch invasion.”) Within seconds, dozens of officers and stewards had sprinted over to the Chelsea section, surrounded the fans, and bundled the offenders out.

Standing under a no-alcohol-past-this-point sign, a Newcastle security guard explained that he believed he and his colleagues were sometimes the only thing between the fans and a free-for-all.

“You link arms and hope the fans don’t break through,” he said, describing the situation when away supporters try to leave their special segregated area and attack home supporters. Sometimes, he said, the fans sitting at the top of the stadium throw things at the people below. “You have to put your hands over your head and hope nothing hits you,” he said.

The guard said the fans had been particularly nasty during Newcastle’s most recent outing with its Northeast neighbor Sunderland, the game that ended with semi-riots in downtown Newcastle. When he got home and took off his parka, he said, a cascade of coins that fans had thrown at him fell out of the hood and pockets.

RULE NO. 4: The fans’ happiness is not straightforward.

At a match in January, Arsenal was trouncing visiting West Ham, another London team, which meant that most of the people at Emirates Stadium, their home ground, should have been in a good mood. (The West Ham fans were crammed into such a tiny section that their mood barely counted).

But there was an underlying restlessness, and every time Arsenal did anything wrong, like lose possession of the ball, a portion of the home-club fans began abusing the manager, Arsène Wenger, for not having won any trophies in several years.

One man sitting near me was uttering a torrent of profane anti-Wenger imprecations in a low monotone, in the manner of a psychotic cattle auctioneer narrating a pornographic movie. What was his problem, I asked, given that the team was ahead by four goals?

“He’s effing useless,” the man said (among other things).

It works both ways. At the Aston Villa match, the fans’ disappointment at being poised to lose the match was allayed only by the sight of the Chelsea captain, John Terry, lying incapacitated and in obvious pain on the field with an ankle injury.

First they accused Terry of faking it. Then they started to chant: “Stand up! Stand up! If you hate John Terry, stand up!” while standing up. Then they accused him of some more things. They cheered loudest when he was carried off on a stretcher.

Fans are ecstatic to the point of insanity when their team scores. What makes them nearly as happy is the chance to taunt the opposing fans, the ones whose team has not scored. American baseball fans have rituals like the seventh-inning-stretch and the wave; English soccer fans have rituals like the giving-of-the-finger to the opposing supporters.

“People go into this crazed tribal mode, and you can get this mood of hate,” said John Carlin, an English journalist who writes frequently about soccer. He described the way fans celebrate goals as “orgasmic rage.”

“It’s a teeth-gritted, sullen business in which people suffer more than enjoy,” he said.

RULE NO. 5: The food is cruddy and no one really cares about it, but the alcohol is essential.

Alcohol is allowed to be consumed in stadiums’ snack areas, but not in the stands. To temper the annoyance this causes, hard-core fans tend to drink heavily beforehand — carrying plastic bags full of beer onto the train, spending hours in nearby pubs — and at halftime. They are not supposed to arrive at the stadium obviously drunk, but many have ways of getting around this.

Meanwhile, very little eating goes on in the stands; nobody is walking around wearing a friendly hat and asking if you want to purchase yummy seat-side treats. No cotton candy; no Dippin’ Dots. Inside, the snack bar menus tend to be basic, offering things like French fries with curry sauce; chicken pie; and Bovril, a hot beef-flavored bouillon masquerading as soup.

At St. James’ Park, the Newcastle stadium, the menu in the away-fans’ snack area consisted of one type of entree — meat pies in various flavors — and eight types of alcoholic beverage. “Three-course meal: 7.80 pounds!” advertised a sign. Course one: meat pie. Course two: flavored vodka drink. Course three: Twix bar.

At the Aston Villa game in Birmingham, Steve James, 47, took time out from chanting obscene remarks at the visiting Chelsea players to observe that because the game started early in the afternoon, the fans had had less drinking time than they might have liked.

“I have only had 11 beers so far,” he said. “I met my mates at a bar at 8 in the morning and had a bacon and egg sandwich and four pints of cider,” cider being an alcoholic drink here. “On the train, I had a few more. Then I had six in a bar when I got here, and a couple at halftime.”

Except for his addition problems, James did not seem drunk at all. “I don’t like to be uncontrollable or not know what I’m doing,” he said. “I have my limit.”

What is that?

“I have no idea,” he said.

RULE NO. 6: England fans are just as bewildered by you as you are by them.

Graeme Adams, an Everton fan, said he once attended a San Francisco Giants game and was bored to the point of inertia by the slowness of the pace, by the fact that everybody seemed to spend the whole time eating and by what he perceived as the narcoleptic listlessness of the crowd.

“It was unbelievable — you get told when to clap and how to cheer,” he said.

Many old-timers mourn the passing of the old soccer era, one they believe was more authentic, more passionate, more primal. This was before television moved in, before deep-pocketed foreign owners began throwing money at soccer teams, and before prices became so high that many working-class fans bankrupt themselves attending matches, if they go at all.

Others say the whole thing is in danger of becoming too Americanized.

Mark Perryman, of the University of Brighton, said he was not pleased by the way the recent F.A. Cup final began with an opera singer belting out the words to “God Save the Queen.”

“If there’s one group of people that don’t need to be told the words to the national anthem, it’s soccer fans in England, but it was so loud, no one could hear themselves sing,” Perryman said.

Meanwhile, he said, the screens at halftime showed what he took to be a Budweiser ad. “It was some kind of computer game being played by two individuals on the pitch,” Perryman said. “This is very foreign to English fan culture.”

Some American traditions will never work here, it seems.

Carlin recalled going to a game some years ago when, as an experiment, a group of cheerleaders was brought out to energize the crowd.

It energized the crowd, but not in the way it was supposed to: the fans all chanted the word “prostitutes” until the cheerleaders left.
501 2013-05-21 Credit: Warrick Page for The New York Times
502 2013-05-21 The emergency room serves as a place to get immediate care in the evenings and weekends, he said, and where patients can get “complex, time-efficient diagnostic workups.”

The RAND researchers, who studied hospital admissions in the United States from 2003 to 2009, said increasing numbers of patients were being admitted through emergency rooms. “They are the entryway for the hospital for unscheduled admissions,” Dr. Kellermann said.

Nearly all of the increase in hospital admissions during that period was because of a 17 percent increase in unscheduled admissions made from emergency rooms, according to the report. Over the same period, there was a 10 percent decline in admissions from doctors’ offices and similar settings.

Doctors are sending patients to the emergency room when they are not available to see a patient or when someone needs sophisticated tests to determine quickly whether they are seriously ill. Patients frequently go to the emergency room because they feel they have no alternative, and the researchers also noted that emergency rooms served as a medical safety net for patients without health insurance.

While some hospital executives may be pressing physicians to admit patients to fill beds, Dr. Kellermann predicted that changing the payment system so hospitals were no longer rewarded for the volume of tests and treatments they provide would change the dynamic. “I think you’ll see a 180” degree turn in their attitude, he said.

The study did not reach a definitive conclusion about whether patients in managed care plans who came to the emergency room were less likely to be admitted than those who were not enrolled in such plans.

The report concludes that it is not clear exactly how emergency rooms contribute to the nation’s health care costs. “The real money,” Dr. Kellermann said, is in the care provided for patients admitted to the hospital, which accounts for almost a third of the nation’s health care bill.

The question for policy makers, he said, is whether the emergency room is the appropriate place to determine whether someone goes home or is admitted for treatment. Patients may benefit from the speed and thoroughness of the diagnosis taking place in the emergency room, compared to seeing multiple doctors and getting multiple tests to determine what is wrong. But the expense could be much higher, and emergency physicians may be too eager to order costly tests.

“Policy analysts need to assess which is the more efficient,” Dr. Kellermann said.

There may even be reason to believe that emergency room physicians are good at keeping patients out of the hospital if they do not need to be there, according to the RAND researchers.

The researchers said about emergency departments, “Our findings offer early evidence, albeit inconclusive, that E.D.’s are already having a positive impact” by preventing so-called potentially preventable hospital admissions.
503 2013-05-21 RIO DE JANEIRO — The Brazilian police have arrested a businessman listed by the United States as a member of Hezbollah, the powerful Lebanese militant group, under suspicion of operating a fraudulent scheme in the clothing industry — a far cry from the arms, drugs, explosives and counterfeit bills that American officials have suspected him of trafficking in during the past.

Officials with Brazil’s Civil Police said the suspect, Hamzi Ahmad Barakat, 50, a Lebanese citizen with ties to the Triple Frontier region of Brazil, Argentina and Paraguay, was arrested Thursday in the city of Curitiba in southern Brazil in connection with creating a network of front companies to defraud Lebanese immigrants who had recently arrived in Brazil.

The arrest focuses new attention on the Triple Frontier, a smugglers’ haven that has long been under the scrutiny of intelligence agencies from the United States, Israel and South American nations. In 2006, the Treasury Department designated Mr. Barakat as a member of Hezbollah and said he owned and managed a store in Paraguay that “served as a source of funding” for the group, which the United States considers a terrorist organization.

Cassiano Aufiero, the police investigator in charge of the case, said officials were aware that Mr. Barakat had been linked to Hezbollah, but added that their investigation was in connection to other activities. Mr. Aufiero said charges against Mr. Barakat would include embezzlement and the creation of false documents in schemes involving the resale of clothing.

“He was preying on his own countrymen, using their identities to create companies to carry out schemes,” Mr. Aufiero said. He said Mr. Barakat had been held in a state penitentiary in Curitiba since his arrest.

John Sullivan, a spokesman for the Treasury Department in Washington, said the description of Mr. Barakat as a Hezbollah member still stood.

After the Treasury Department described the links of Mr. Barakat and eight others in the Triple Frontier region to Hezbollah, Brazil’s government responded by saying there were no signs of terrorism financing in the border region, which has long attracted large numbers of immigrants from the Middle East.
504 2013-05-21 “My baby just turned 29, so I know how many years I’ve been doing this, because he was 1 year old when I started traveling on business,” she said in a late-night phone call last week from Kristiansand, Norway, just after getting back to her consulting work. “And this has been the worst trip ever.”

The saga is long, but we’ll cut to the chase. First, the little European airline that was to fly her from Kristiansand to Copenhagen, the first leg of her outbound trip, canceled her flight because of a strike. That meant she would miss her scheduled trans-Atlantic flight from Copenhagen. Plan B was to go to Oslo instead, for a flight to Newark, with a connection through Chicago to Colorado Springs. So getting quickly to Oslo, at night, from Kristiansand (about 200 miles) was the first hurdle.

“I thought, I’ll drive, even though it was pouring rain,” she said. “It’s a four- or five-hour drive, which was doable. But the car rental was about $600 for a one-way drop-off, and a taxi would take me for about $1,000, so that made better sense. Then as my hotel was calling the taxi, a desk agent said, ‘What about the bus?'”

“I’m like, the bus?” Ms. Margolis said with a touch of horror. But the bus turned out to be the cheapest and most reliable part of the trip. Exhausted, she got to a hotel in Oslo just before midnight.

“I used my key to open the door and flipped on the lights, and the room was occupied,” said Ms. Margolis, who publishes a Web site called Smartwomentravelers.com and blogs about her adventures. “Thankfully, I didn’t hear any screaming. Back down at the desk, they upgraded me to a better room, unoccupied — which I have to say is one tactic to score an upgrade that I’d never thought of before.”

The flight from Oslo to Newark in business class the next morning was pleasant and uneventful. But the connection to Chicago was changed to Denver instead. “Well, it’s a short hop from Denver to Colorado Springs, so I figured, no problem,” she said.

Problem. She had a first-class ticket on that itinerary but, with the change in flights and planes, no first-class seat. “I see that I’m in seat 36F, way in the back in coach, a row from the toilet,” she said. “I’m like, what the heck?”

Protests were unavailing. Waiting for a later flight was not an option because of her tight schedule. Off to Denver she went, crammed in a window seat.

“The guy next to me is sleeping; the guy in front of me has his seat all the way back, so I can’t use my laptop. I could barely move. I’m saying, O.K., bladder, we’re in for a long ride. Still, even though you feel like crying, you think, heck, this is a stupid thing, suck it up. You’re getting where you need to be and you’re on your way.”

The morning after her meeting in Colorado Springs she went to the airport for the long haul back to Norway. Oops, though she had a $4,000 ticket in her hand, she didn’t seem to have a reservation. No one at the airport or in the vast networks of interlocking airline alliances had a clue, she said. The option was to buy an entirely new first-class ticket to Norway and let her travel agent sort it all out later. The added cost: $6,000.

All’s well that ends well, she said — even the bag and her good shoes eventually showed up. But she added a note of empathy. “If this can happen to those of us who really know what we’re doing — you know, get to an airport lounge and get help; always have a Plan B with different flights — imagine the poor traveler who doesn’t know the system and doesn’t have a clue what to do,” she said.

You’ll be seeing more of them this summer.
505 2013-05-21 A Congressional inquiry’s findings were remarkable both for the tens of billions of dollars involved and for Apple’s audacity in saying some of its subsidiaries were stateless and beyond any tax authority’s reach....
506 2013-05-21 Members of the United States Senate are expected to sharply criticize Apple’s global tax tactics while questioning the company’s chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, at a Congressional hearing on Tuesday.

Apple, one of the most profitable companies in American history, has shielded billions of dollars from tax collectors around the globe by moving revenue to offshore subsidiaries and taking advantage of tax loopholes, according to company documents and tax experts.

Apple has more than $100 billion in cash assigned to foreign subsidiaries, where it is not taxed by the United States. Some of those subsidiaries, though technically lodged in Europe, are fully controlled by Apple’s executives in Cupertino, Calif.

When Mr. Cook and other top-ranking Apple executives appear tomorrow before the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, lawmakers are expected to question them on Apple’s use of tax loopholes and shell companies to escape paying corporate income taxes on much of its profit.

Mr. Cook is expected to tell lawmakers that Apple is the largest corporate income taxpayer in the United States, according to a copy of his testimony posted online by the company. Apple, according to that testimony, paid nearly $6 billion in federal taxes last year, and “does not use tax gimmicks.” Moreover, Mr. Cook is expected to call for a sweeping reform of the federal corporate tax code. In particular, he will call for lowering rates on companies moving overseas earnings back to the United States.
507 2013-05-21 My mother was a nurse, the old-fashioned kind without a college degree, first in the class of 1935 at the Lenox Hill Hospital School of Nursing in New York City. Her graduation was announced in The New York Times, and her name was listed in the commencement program — Estelle S. Murov, in gold letters on ivory vellum —as the valedictory speaker, to be followed by the Florence Nightingale Pledge, presentation of prizes and diplomas, benediction, recessional and a reception and dance at the Hotel Astor.

In the dozen years that followed (until my birth), she wore a blue flannel cape and a starched white cap while presiding over the preemie nursery at Lenox Hill, long before the days of neonatal intensive care units. The glory years for nurses, my mother always told me, were during World War II, when most of the doctors were away and real responsibility replaced being a handmaiden.

With this as my background, I am hardly a disinterested reviewer of a new anthology of essays by 21 nurses. It is beautifully wrought, but more significantly a reminder that these “semi-invisible” people, as Lee Gutkind calls them in this new book, are now the “indispensable and anchoring element of our health care system.”

Today, there are 2.7 million registered nurses working in the United States, compared with 690,000 physicians and surgeons. That number is expected to grow to 3.5 million in the next half dozen years, Mr. Gutkind writes in his introduction, as members of the baby boom generation require hospitalization and home or hospice care.

After he had selected 21 essays from more than 200 submissions, Mr. Gutkind had personal experiences that drove home the very thing the nurses wrote about over and over. He spent several months at others’ hospital bedsides — his mother, 93; his son, 21; his uncle, 86; and a friend, 72 — and rarely saw a physician.

Though it is the doctors who are considered “deities,” he writes, it was the “irreplaceable” nurses who were a source of comfort and security during his family’s multiple trials. And yet by his own admission he took them for granted — “I cannot not tell you what any of the nurses looked like, what their names were, where they came from” — which is exactly the state of affairs my mother described 65 years ago.
508 2013-05-21 The goal of the current tariffs, and of the price and quantity regulations that could replace them, is to protect American and European manufacturers from what they and the Obama administration describe as unfair competition. Western manufacturers and the administration say that Chinese solar panels are heavily subsidized by the Chinese government and then dumped in foreign markets at prices far below the cost of production.

Two dozen American and European solar panel manufacturers have already cut back production or gone bankrupt in the last three years, moves widely attributed to Chinese imports.

Francisco Sanchez, the under secretary of commerce for international trade, has just flown to Beijing for a visit to discuss civilian nuclear power trade issues, people with a detailed knowledge of his visit said. Mr. Sanchez has a long agenda of bilateral trade issues to discuss that includes mentioning an American interest in negotiations, a person with detailed knowledge of his visit said.

The Commerce Department deferred on Monday to the United States trade representative’s office about what Mr. Sanchez would say in Beijing about solar panels.

The Obama administration is in the earliest stages of sounding out Congress about the shift toward replacing tariffs with a negotiated settlement. Senator Ron Wyden, the Oregon Democrat whose state is a center of solar panel production, said that he supported a negotiated deal.

“We are really at a fork in the road with respect to producing renewable energy technology in the United States,” he said. “This is the moment for the administration to obtain a global agreement that levels the playing field for American producers and provides the certainty needed for America’s renewable energy, and solar sector in particular, to survive.”

Chinese producers have partly bypassed the American tariffs by performing one stage in the solar panel manufacturing process outside mainland China: turning solar wafers into solar cells in nearby Taiwan.

A negotiated deal would close the loophole in the American tariffs; the European trade case does not have the same loophole.

China has retaliated for American and European tariffs on solar panels by moving to impose steep tariffs on imports of the main raw material for solar panels, polysilicon. A negotiated settlement would also involve China’s removal of these retaliatory tariffs.

Under American and European laws, antidumping and antisubsidy tariffs cannot be replaced with a negotiated settlement unless the domestic industry agrees. European and American producers have been wary of accepting any negotiated deal that does not set a large increase in prices.

“It has to be reasonably high to really exclude the impact of dumping,” said a European industry official who insisted on anonymity.

Negotiations with China are still in a very early stage, so it may take several months before a final deal, if any, is struck. And it is possible that no deal will emerge at all, in which case steep American tariffs will remain in place and European taxes will also be imposed.

Carol J. Guthrie, the spokeswoman for the White House’s Office of the United States Trade Representative, declined to comment on whether the administration was negotiating with China.

“Our goal is to support a healthy global solar industry in conditions that foster the adoption of renewable energy and continued innovation and a level playing field for all,” she said. “Toward those ends, we will continue to work with industry and our trading partners to explore ways to resolve concerns.”

China’s Ministry of Commerce had no comment on Monday in response to questions submitted by phone and by fax about the American initiative. But Li Junfeng, a senior energy policy maker at the National Development and Reform Commission, the country’s top economic planning agency, said that China would welcome negotiations.

“Negotiations are better than a fight — a fight hurts both sides,” said Mr. Li, who is also the president of the government-controlled Chinese Renewable Energy Industries Association. “You should have some quota or market share, that would be fair.”

But a European Union official cautioned that reaching a negotiated settlement would be difficult. European negotiators have already met three times with Chinese officials at the request of the Chinese side, but at none of these meetings has China put forward any plan to limit export volumes or raise prices, said the official, who also insisted on anonymity.

The solar panel issue has emerged as an unexpected challenge for when the world’s trade ministers gather from Dec. 3-6 in Bali to negotiate a global deal to broaden the World Trade Organization. If no negotiated settlement is reached before then, inflexible European Union regulations require a final decision by Dec. 5, in the middle of the Bali talks, on whether to turn preliminary antidumping duties on Chinese solar panels into tariffs that would last for five years — a move that could antagonize China, a major player in the global trade talks.
509 2013-05-21 “Today is definitely a slow period in terms of news or economic data, and there isn’t a catalyst to really move higher or lower,” said Tim Ghriskey, chief investment officer of the Solaris Group in Bedford Hills, N.Y.

“There are people scared by the sharpness and the length of this rally, which is totally understandable. But there are still those who are afraid to not invest and miss the rally.”

The S.& P. 500 is up nearly 1,000 points from its low in March 2009. More than 38 percent of the stocks within the S.& P. 500 hit a 52-week high last week — the highest percentage since at least 1990.

The Dow slipped 19.12 points, or 0.12 percent, to 15,335.28 at the close. The S.& P. 500 shed 1.18 points, or 0.07 percent, to finish at 1,666.29. The Nasdaq composite index declined 2.54 points, or 0.07 percent, to end at 3,496.43.

Yahoo will buy the blogging service Tumblr for $1.1 billion cash, giving it a much-needed social media platform to reach a younger generation of users and breathe new life into its ailing brand. Yahoo shares rose 0.2 percent to $26.58.

Shares of the Chinese solar products maker JA Solar jumped 70.4 percent to $9.56. Its focus on margins over volume paid off as the company halved its operating loss in the first quarter by selling more panels in high-margin Japan.

Shares for other solar companies surged: China Sunergy rose 50 percent to $2.52, and LDK Solar shot up 20.4 percent to $1.83. Yingli Green Energy Holdings climbed 13.1 percent to $3.10.

In other deal news, Actavis rose 1.3 percent to $127.15 after the company said it would acquire Warner Chilcott in a stock-for-stock transaction valued at $5 billion. Warner Chilcott gained 2 percent, to $19.60.

Plains Exploration and Production and Freeport-McMoRan Copper and Gold said they would pay shareholders more in dividends if they approved Freeport’s roughly $6 billion takeover offer for Plains. Plains shares leapt 7.4 percent to $48.94, while Freeport’s stock gained 0.6 percent to $32.88.

Wall Street got more feedback from the Federal Reserve on Monday with some comments from Charles Evans, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. Mr. Evans said the Fed could keep up its current level of bond-buying stimulus, but could also end it abruptly in the autumn if by then it was sure that the labor market was on a solid footing.

The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 3/32 to

 98 2/32, increasing the yield to 1.97, from 1.95 on Friday.
510 2013-05-21 KABUL, Afghanistan — A suicide bomber disguised as a police officer killed 14 people on Monday, including the head of a provincial council in northern Afghanistan, officials said.

The head of the council, Rasul Mohseni, commonly known as Rasul Khan, was widely regarded as the most powerful man in Baghlan Province and was a veteran commander who had led northerners in revolt against the Taliban government. He was killed along with four of his bodyguards and three police officers, as well as six civilians, according to Zubair Akbari, the province’s director of public health. Nine other people were wounded.

Sadiq Muradi, the deputy police chief of Baghlan Province, said that Mr. Mohseni had arrived at the provincial council offices in Pul-i-Kumri, Baghlan’s capital, with his bodyguards and a group of elders who wanted to meet with him and was walking toward the council building when the bomber joined the group. Dressed in a police uniform, the bomber mingled with officers until the group got inside the building, where he detonated an explosive device hidden on his body.

Mr. Mohseni, who was viewed as more powerful than either Baghlan’s governor or its police chief, had been accused of quietly rearming militia fighters in the north in case the Taliban again proved to be a threat. His brother Mustafa Mohseni is an Afghan general, and another brother, Azim Mohseni, is an influential member of Parliament.

They were all prominent members of the Jamiat-i-Islami party, formerly led by Burhanuddin Rabbani, who was assassinated in 2011 by a Taliban suicide bomber pretending to be a peace emissary.
511 2013-05-21 SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea launched two short-range projectiles into waters off its east coast for a third straight day on Monday, officials here said, despite warnings from the United States and South Korea against increasing tensions.

The North has conducted six such launchings since Saturday, in what are believed to be tests of short-range guided missiles or rockets from multiple launchers, officials said.

“We remain vigilant for the possibility that the North may launch more,” a spokesman for the South Korean Defense Ministry said, insisting upon anonymity until his government made a formal announcement.

He said a projectile was launched in a northeasterly direction on Monday morning, followed by another in the afternoon.

North Korea said the launchings were part of normal military drills. In a statement carried by Pyongyang’s official Korean Central News Agency, the North’s Committee for the Peaceful Reunification of the Fatherland said it was “brigandish sophism” for Washington and Seoul to accuse the North of raising tensions when they recently staged far bigger military exercises involving a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier.

Kim Jang-soo, the national security director at the presidential office in Seoul, responded to the first launching on Monday by affirming South Korea’s call for the North to stop firing missiles. He said that the launchings, whether intended to test Pyongyang’s weapons or to demonstrate its firepower, “raised tensions,” said Kim Haing, a presidential spokeswoman.

After months of bellicose language from the North, relative quiet had appeared to be settling on the Korean Peninsula until Saturday, when the North suddenly launched three missiles or rockets and followed with another launching on Sunday. The moves have rattled the region, where governments remain puzzled about Pyongyang’s motives.
512 2013-05-22 If you are a betting person, you might want to keep an eye out for Uniqlo’s now familiar red square logo appearing on athletes in the future....
513 2013-05-22 Before Wednesday’s game against the Orioles, the Yankees’ Curtis Granderson said that he felt comfortable at the plate and that his right forearm, which he fractured in spring training, felt great....
514 2013-05-22 President Obama’s choice to be transportation secretary, Mayor Anthony Foxx of Charlotte, N.C., zipped through a confirmation hearing on Wednesday before the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee....
515 2013-05-22 Slow lorises in the deep dark of the Vietnamese forest are probably wise to avoid the scientist who wanders by with a flashlight and a notebook. There are other humans about with less noble intentions....
516 2013-05-22 The adaptation of the film “Little Miss Sunshine” is to begin previews at Second Stage in October....
517 2013-05-22 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
518 2013-05-22 Timothy D. Cook told a Senate panel that Apple pays “all the taxes we owe — every single dollar,” Nelson D. Schwartz and Brian X. Chen report in The New York Times...
519 2013-05-22 One of at least 14 original copies of the Bill of Rights will be displayed at the New York Public LIbrary in the fall, and in Philadelphia starting next fall....
520 2013-05-22 The Nobel committee said Dr. Rohrer and Dr. Binnig had opened up “entirely new fields” for “the study of the structure of matter.”

Dr. Rohrer and Dr. Binnig, who had both done work in superconductivity and magnetic fields, were initially interested in studying the little-understood and complex atomic structures that make up the surfaces of minerals. It is at their surfaces that materials interact with the physical world.

But they found that electron microscopes, which investigate the internal arrangements of materials, did not help. The scientists decided they needed to develop a new type of microscope.

Their idea for the microscope’s “lens” was an exceedingly thin wire tip — the width of a single atom. Through a quantum mechanical effect called tunneling, a tiny current of electricity would flow from the tip to a surface to be scanned. The closer the probe got to a surface, the more electricity would flow. A computer would interpret the subtle changes in current to make a contour map of the hills and valleys of the atomic terrain.

The scientists’ colleagues at I.B.M. were skeptical of the project. As Dr. Rohrer recalled, “They all said, ‘You are completely crazy — but if it works you’ll get the Nobel Prize.’ ”

Dr. Rohrer and Dr. Binnig successfully tested the device in 1981. By 1987, they had captured images as small as 0.25 billionths of an inch.

Using the wire as a tool, they began moving individual atoms around like building blocks. In 1990, Donald M. Eigler and Erhard Schweizer used it to spell I.B.M. in xenon atoms on a nickel crystal. Other scanning microscopes have been developed to measure data like temperature and magnetism at extremely minute levels.

Heinrich Rohrer was born in Buchs, St. Gallen, Switzerland, on June 6, 1933, as his parents’ third child, half an hour after his twin sister. He went to a country school until the family moved to Zurich in 1949. His favorite subjects were mathematics, science, and Latin and Greek. He concentrated on physics at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology and graduated in 1955. He earned his Ph.D. there in 1960.

Moving to the United States, Dr. Rohrer spent two years at Rutgers University doing postdoctoral research on superconductors and metals. He joined I.B.M. in 1963.

In an interview with the Nobel Foundation in 2008, he said I.B.M. had granted him the “freedom to make mistakes.”

“Unfortunately,” he added, “this freedom for scientists gets more and more lost. Otherwise you do the common things. You don’t dare to do something beyond what everybody else thinks.”

Dr. Rohrer is survived by his wife, Rose-Marie Rohrer-Egger; his daughters, Doris Rohrer Hansen and Ellen Rohrer; and two grandchildren.

One of the latest uses of Dr. Rohrer’s invention came this year, when I.B.M. scientists made what they call history’s tiniest stop-action film, as verified by Guinness World Records. Called “A Boy and His Atom,” the film assembles atoms into the image of a small boy and shows him dancing, bouncing about and playing catch with an atom. It was made by moving atoms frame by frame — 250 frames in all — and magnifying them 100 million times.
521 2013-05-22 Citing remarks I made at the Sohn Conference, Jesse Eisinger has it right that I am critical of the Federal Reserve’s policies (“Why Fund Managers May Be Right on the Fed,” column, Business Day, May 16). He asserts, however, that “the Druckenmillers of the world have been and will continue to be wrong about a coming debt crisis and runaway inflation.”

The thesis of my talk was why, despite record money printing worldwide, I expect commodity deflation, not inflation. I stressed the “unintended consequences, such as malinvestment throughout the world, and canceling price signals to policy makers,” made possible by Fed actions.

Additionally, in recent talks on generational theft, I have stated clearly that a debt crisis could happen a number of years from now “if and only if” we don’t address soon our long-term entitlement problems.

While others may disagree, their views should not be attributed to me.

The writer, a former hedge fund manager, is chairman and chief executive of Duquesne Family Office.
522 2013-05-22 Judge Shira Scheindlin, of Federal District Court in Manhattan, got to the heart of the problem with the New York Police Department’s stop-and-frisk program on Monday, after hearing testimony for two months in the civil rights case, Floyd v. City of New York. The plaintiffs charge the department with illegally detaining hundreds of thousands of people on the streets each year not because of suspicious behavior but because of their race.

Judge Scheindlin noted that nearly 90 percent of the time the police found no criminal behavior and that officers almost never uncovered guns, even when they believed there was a “suspicious bulge” in the person’s clothing. (Evidence introduced at trial showed that guns were seized in only 0.15 percent of all stops and in one of every 69 stops in which officers claimed to have seen such a bulge.)

During closing arguments on Monday, the judge criticized the Police Department’s “high error rate” and observed that “a lot of people are being frisked or searched on suspicion of having a gun and nobody has a gun.”

Even though black and Hispanic people make up more than 85 percent of those stopped in most years, the city has denied that the stops are based on race. Yet the trial has produced voluminous evidence to the contrary, including a troubling recording secretly made earlier this year by Officer Pedro Serrano of the 40th Precinct in the South Bronx. In the recording, a superior officer is heard urging Officer Serrano to stop and, if necessary, frisk “the right people at the right time, the right location.” When asked by Officer Serrano for more specifics, the superior said: “I have no problem telling you this, male blacks 14 to 20, 21.”

The city has long claimed that so many minorities are stopped because they commit more crime. But when a lawyer for the city raised this explanation, the judge rightly called it “worrisome” and wondered if it might lead officers to single out people based on race instead of suspicion of criminal behavior, as the law requires.

The Bloomberg administration has lashed out at critics of the program, describing them as indifferent to street crime. The truth is that stopping hundreds of thousands of law-abiding residents — who don’t need to be deterred from violent behavior — does not reduce crime. It is possible to protect public safety without running roughshod over people’s constitutional rights. The next mayor would do well to understand that.
523 2013-05-22 Tax experts say that such an arrangement is not uncommon among American multinationals. During the last several years, major companies like Microsoft, Hewlett-Packard, Google and Abbott Labs have lowered their tax bills by arranging for their billions in profits to flow to subsidiaries that are technically offshore — even though some of the money is placed in United States Treasury bonds and other government securities.

Because the money is nominally held by the offshore companies, the tax code deems the money nontaxable, even if the funds are physically held in the United States. The savings to American companies is huge: the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that if foreign profits of United States corporations were fully taxed it would generate an additional $42 billion this year for the government — about half the amount of the automatic spending cuts enacted as part of the so-called sequester.

The companies say that they need to shield their money overseas, however, because the official corporate rate of 35 percent is the highest in the world and puts them at a competitive disadvantage. And while the offshore money may be in American banks and controlled from home, executives say it would be irresponsible to return the money to their shareholders or invest it in the United States because of the high tax rate.

Just last month, Apple announced it would pay for its dividends to shareholders by taking on $17 billion in debt rather than tap into the untaxed foreign profits. Mr. Cook said it would have been a disservice to shareholders to use the “offshore” earnings and pay the 35 percent federal income tax.

But Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who heads the committee, brushed aside those claims. “You can bring the money home,” he said. “You’d just have to pay your taxes on it.”

Apple is one of about 20 major corporations that have been pushing for a fresh tax break, known as a “repatriation holiday,” which would allow them to bring the money to the United States at a drastically reduced rate. John T. Chambers, chief executive of Cisco, has led a sustained lobbying effort for such a policy, promising that it would act as a stimulus to encourage investment and increase jobs in the United States.

A similar policy was enacted in 2004, which prompted American companies to return more than $300 billion in foreign earnings at the reduced rate of 5.25 percent. But it led to no discernible increase in American investment or hiring. On the contrary, some of the companies that brought back the most money laid off thousands of workers, and a study by the National Bureau of Economic Research later concluded that 92 cents on every dollar was used for dividends, stock buybacks or executive bonuses. A study by the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that a similar program would result in $79 billion in forgone tax revenue over a decade.

Opponents of the repatriation tax break say that Apple’s accounting maneuvers show how easily major companies can shield their profits from the government, even putting companies without aggressive tax departments at a competitive disadvantage.

“The offshore companies are a fiction and the statement that the money is offshore is a fiction,” said Edward D. Kleinbard, former staff director for the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation. “What they are asking for is a reward for having gamed the system.”
524 2013-05-22 MetLife, the nation’s largest life insurer, said Tuesday that it would make its business more transparent by moving some deals for hedging risk back to the United States from offshore, pleasing regulators but underwhelming the stock market.

For a number of years, MetLife has been using a Bermuda subsidiary, Exeter Reassurance, to reinsure several billion dollars’ worth of variable annuity contracts, in which customers pay in advance to receive guaranteed payments in retirement. By buying the reinsurance, MetLife was able to remove the obligations to these policyholders from its balance sheet.

Such transactions have become extremely popular in the life-insurance business in recent years, and regulators at the New York State Department of Financial Services have been investigating the deals since last July. The department’s superintendent, Benjamin M. Lawsky, recently called them “financial alchemy.”

“Let’s call it shadow insurance,” Mr. Lawsky said in a speech in April, recalling the so-called shadow banking system that appeared in the run-up to the financial crisis.

MetLife and other insurers have been trying to cope with the Federal Reserve’s long-running policy of keeping interest rates very low to help revive economic growth. Many life insurers are having trouble because they normally buy bonds to make good on annuities they sold in the past, and they cannot get the yields they need in the current low-rate environment. They can reduce the obligations on their balance sheets, however, by shifting them to reinsurers.

But buying reinsurance from an off-balance-sheet subsidiary “does not actually transfer the risk for those insurance policies off the parent company’s books,” Mr. Lawsky said in his speech. By law, reinsurance must involve a real transfer of risk; otherwise insurers are not supposed to use it to improve their balance sheets.
525 2013-05-22 Mark Mazur, the assistant Treasury secretary for tax policy, testified he had never heard of such a thing. It is his job to recommend changes in tax laws.

But Samuel Maruca, the Internal Revenue Service director of transfer pricing operations, sounded surprised that people were surprised.

Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, saw nothing unusual. He vigorously denied Apple had used any “tax gimmicks.”

It may be that once a loophole is spotted, using it is anything but complicated. But it can be very difficult to spot such a loophole without help from someone who has already found it.

If that is the case, Tuesday’s hearing could have the exact opposite effect from the one that Senator Levin intended. It is not hard to imagine other chief executives reading news reports and asking their chief financial officers why they never thought of that. That could lead to even more companies finding ways to avoid American income taxes.

To use Apple’s strategy, companies will need to meet a few criteria.

First, they must be multinationals.

Second, a large part of their profits must come from what is called “intellectual property,” like patents or copyrights.

Third, it helps a lot if the company can do its tax planning before it is obvious to outsiders — or maybe even to insiders — just how profitable that intellectual property is going to be.

Finally, they must find one or more countries that will let them pull the trick. Ireland seems to have been very clever. It offers the benefit of “stateless subsidiaries” only to companies that have actual operations in Ireland. Apple has its European headquarters there, and employs a lot of people. In effect, Ireland pays companies to come to Ireland by offering to let them avoid taxes in their home countries.

In Apple’s case, as with many technology and pharmaceutical companies, the cost of production is but a fraction of the price paid by the customers. Most of the profits will accrue to the owner of the intellectual property.

Apple does nearly all of its research near its Cupertino headquarters. But in 1980 it signed over to an Irish subsidiary the right to profit from that research in most of the world. Buy an iPhone in Brazil, and Apple U.S. will benefit. Buy one in China, and the Irish operation books most of the profits.

That deal appears to have been very one-sided, given what happened to Apple. But Apple renewed it in 2008.

Such an inter-company deal should be on “arm’s-length” terms. But that is hard to know. It is, testified Mr. Maruca, the I.R.S. official, “our most significant enforcement challenge.”

Under American tax law, American companies owe tax on their worldwide profits — but with a major catch. “Foreign profits” are not taxed until they are brought home. Then they are taxed at the American rate of 35 percent, less whatever foreign tax was paid. But there is no requirement that they ever come home.

President John F. Kennedy called for ending that deferral. Congress refused to do so, but passed provisions that were supposed to make it harder for companies to abuse the deferral rules. Senator Levin says that those rules have themselves been abused.

What will happen? Apple thinks the solution is simple. Let it bring the money home at a rate Apple and other companies would deem reasonable.

And what is reasonable? “To incent a huge number of companies” to bring back money, Mr. Cook testified, the new rate “would have to be a single-digit number.”

Senator Levin hopes that the hearing will inspire his colleagues to change the law in a different way. “These tax-shifting capabilities that these major corporations have cannot continue,” he said.

But the result could be the opposite, with nothing happening on Capitol Hill as more companies use the Apple example to take a bite out of their tax bills.
526 2013-05-22 Mr. Bullard sent a message to Wall Street not to expect the Fed to begin rolling back its own quantitative easing program soon, saying that there was no sign of inflation risk, and that even if there were, the central bank could deal with it.

“We just haven’t seen it so far,” Mr. Bullard said of inflation. And when it starts to appear, he added, “we know how to fight that problem — we can raise rates.”

Mr. Bullard spoke ahead of meetings in Frankfurt with some of his European counterparts, including Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank. Mr. Bullard said he was speaking for himself and not the Fed or any other members of its policy committee.

Still, his remarks represented one of the strongest public statements yet from a Washington policy maker in response to increasing concern that European leaders were reacting too timidly to a spreading recession.

A sluggish European economy has global implications, Mr. Bullard said. “You have to be concerned,” he told the group. “The European Union as a whole is the biggest economy in the world.”

A move by the European Central Bank to buy government bonds on a grand scale would certainly face harsh opposition from the Bundesbank, the conservative and influential German central bank that, while officially under the European Central Bank, wields outsize influence because of its historical role as defender of the German currency and as Europe’s bastion of anti-inflation fervor.

The European Central Bank has given no signals that it is seriously considering quantitative easing.

There are also practical hurdles to emulating Fed policy in Europe. There is no pan-European government bond similar to United States Treasuries. Mr. Bullard said the solution would be to buy bonds of all 17 governments in the euro zone in proportion to their size.

With the official euro zone interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent, below the rate of inflation, the central bank has been groping for ways to stimulate the slumping European economy. Mr. Draghi has floated the idea of a negative deposit rate — in effect charging banks to keep their reserves at the central bank as a way to prod them into lending more money to businesses and consumers.

Mr. Bullard said a negative deposit rate would be a “dead-end policy.” It would not have much effect and could be done only once, he said.
527 2013-05-22 Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo will miss at least three weeks of off-season workouts after a procedure to remove a cyst from his back. The team’s Web site said Romo had the procedure last month, and he could return for the mandatory minicamp that starts June 11. Romo will be ready for training camp in July.
528 2013-05-22 Borussia Dortmund midfielder Mario Goetze pulled out of training on his comeback from a hamstring injury, putting his participation in the Champions League final against Bayern Munich in doubt. He will have a magnetic resonance imaging test before it can be determined if he can play Saturday against Bayern, the club he will join next season.
529 2013-05-22 PARIS — The Big Four is still alive and well as a tennis concept, but bringing Novak Djokovic, Roger Federer, Rafael Nadal and Andy Murray together in the same Grand Slam tournament is proving increasingly elusive.

Though Nadal has roared back from a left knee injury and a seven-month break and is again the favorite to win another French Open title, Murray announced his withdrawal from the tournament on Tuesday after the latest round of magnetic resonance imaging scans and other medical tests on his ailing lower back.

“It’s a really tough decision and I love playing in Paris, but after seeking medical advice, I am not fit to compete,” Murray said in a statement.

Murray, a 26-year-old Scotsman, won his first Grand Slam singles title at last year’s United States Open and reached the final of the Australian Open this year. He is ranked No. 2 in the world, but clay remains his weakest surface. He has been past the French Open quarterfinals only once, reaching the semifinals in 2011. Even healthy, he would have been among the second tier of contenders behind Nadal and Djokovic.

Murray has said his back problems began to surface late in the 2011 season and are linked to a disk problem. He has not offered more detail recently. After a series of painkilling injections last year, he played through back pain at last year’s French Open, where he eventually lost in the quarterfinals. He went on to thrive on grass and hardcourts.
530 2013-05-22 MOSCOW — Georgian police have arrested four men who took part in a mob attack on a gay rights demonstration in Tbilisi that injured dozens, the Georgian Interior ministry announced Tuesday.

The police said the men, the first to be arrested in the violence on Friday, face up to 90 days in prison for hooliganism and disobeying police orders.

The powerful Georgian Orthodox Church helped to organize the rally and video showed several priests participating in the street fighting.

Georgia’s prime minister, Bidzina Ivanishvili, has called for prosecutions following the violence, but the case is expected to upset his relations with the church.

Ilia II, the Georgian Orthodox patriarch, distanced the church from attacks on gay rights demonstrators in a statement on Friday.

Police released names and video of the arrested men, who were brought to a Tbilisi police station in street clothing; none was identified as a member of the clergy.
531 2013-05-22 “It’s important to tell our story, and I’d like people to hear directly from me,” he told Mr. McCain and the other senators.

Apple, he testified, pays “all the taxes we owe — every single dollar.”

Mr. Cook joined Apple in 1998 as an expert in sales and operations, creating the efficient supply chain that helped catapult the company into the top ranks of the technology industry. He became chief executive in 2011.

While his predecessor, Steven P. Jobs, was famous for his creative vision and flamboyant performances at introductions of the company’s products, Mr. Cook was known for his behind-the-scenes work — particularly for his shrewd negotiating tactics with suppliers.

These skills seemed to stand him in good stead on Tuesday.

Apple, Mr. Cook said, was a victim of an outdated tax system. “Unfortunately, the tax code has not kept up with the digital age,” he said.

“The tax system handicaps American corporations in relation to our foreign competitors who don’t have such constraints on the free movement of capital.”

Apple is hardly unique in seeking to legally shield tens of billions in profits from tax collectors in the United States and overseas, even if its tactics may have been unusually aggressive.

According to one study cited by Mr. Levin, 30 of the largest American multinationals, with more than $160 billion in profits, “paid nothing in federal income taxes over a recent three-year period. Zero.”

Corporate tax loopholes, Mr. Levin said, need to be closed “whether or not we reform the overall tax code.”

On Monday, Congressional investigators unveiled a detailed report showing how Apple subsidiaries — based in Ireland but spanning other regions around the world — had helped the company pay as little as one-twentieth of 1 percent in taxes on billions of dollars in income.

Mr. Cook sought to draw a sharp distinction between sales in the United States and those abroad, arguing that the company had complied with local laws everywhere.

“The way I look at this is that Apple pays 30.5 percent of its profits in taxes in the United States,” he said. “We do have a low tax rate outside the U.S., but this is for products we sell outside the U.S.”

Again and again, Mr. Cook said Apple was proud to be an American company, even if the majority of its sales took place outside the United States and were taxed at lower rates. “We are an American company, whether we are selling in China or Egypt or Saudi Arabia.”

In the most spirited exchange of the hearing, Mr. Levin bore down on the fact that Apple’s Irish subsidiaries manage to shelter much of the company’s income in Europe, Asia and the Middle East while it pays a higher rate on sales in North and South America.

“Of course you can bring the profits home,” Mr. Levin said during a back-and-forth with Peter Oppenheimer, Apple’s chief financial officer. “You bring them home from Canada, Mexico and South America.”

Before Mr. Cook and two other top Apple executives testified, other witnesses suggested Apple had indeed pushed hard to take advantage of loopholes in the tax code.

J. Richard Harvey Jr., a professor at Villanova Law School, estimated that Apple’s legal maneuvering had saved the company $7.7 billion in potential American taxes in 2011.

“Apple is an iconic U.S. multinational corporation that has enjoyed extraordinary financial success,” Mr. Harvey said. “In addition to demonstrating excellence in designing, building and selling consumer products, Apple has been very successful at minimizing its global income tax burden.”

For example, he noted, about two-thirds of Apple’s global pretax income in 2011 was recorded in Ireland, yet only 4 percent of its employees and 1 percent of its customers were located there.

While Apple has repeatedly insisted it does not engage in “tax gimmicks,” Mr. Harvey was unswayed.

“Apple does not use tax gimmicks?” he said rhetorically. “I about fell off my chair when I read that.”

Despite the evidence gathered by investigators and prominently displayed on easels — like the web of affiliates Apple used to help lower its tax burden — several committee members joined in the chorus of praise for Apple’s products.

“I love Apple,” said Senator Claire McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat. “I harassed my husband until he converted to a MacBook. It’s a huge part of my life.”

The most ardent defender of Mr. Cook and Apple was Senator Rand Paul, a free-market Republican from Kentucky. “I’m offended by the spectacle of dragging in Apple executives,” he said. “What we need to do is apologize to Apple and compliment them for the job creation they’re doing.”

Instead of “bullying” Apple executives, Mr. Paul said, “we should have brought in a giant mirror to look at the reflection of Congress. If you want to assign blame, look in the mirror and see who created this mess.

“Apple hasn’t broken any laws, yet Apple is forced to sit through a show trial,” he said. That was too much for Mr. Levin, who organized the investigation and the hearing.

“Apple is a great company,” Mr. Levin said. “But they don’t have a right to decide in my book how much in taxes they are going to pay and to whom they are going to pay them.”

Mr. Cook’s testimony before Congress was hardly his first public appearance since becoming Apple’s chief upon the death of Mr. Jobs in October 2011. But it was a coming out of sorts.

Apple faces different challenges from the ones Mr. Jobs faced when he led the company. For one, Apple is larger, and under more pressure than ever.

Laurence Isaac Balter, chief market strategist at Oracle Investment Research, said he thought the Apple chief did a good job of treating the hearing as a constructive conversation about the problems with the business tax code and how it could be improved. And he gave Mr. Cook high marks for his performance.

“You could see Cook lean back in his chair and smile,” said Mr. Balter, whose company has clients that own Apple shares. “He was totally relieved with some of the commentary.”
532 2013-05-22 The United States Senate is hardly Ireland’s only critic on tax matters. Britain, France and other European Union countries have long been annoyed by Irish policies. During hearings in the British Parliament last week, Margaret Hodge, a member of the opposition Labour Party and chairwoman of the Public Accounts Committee, which oversees taxation, upbraided Matt Brittin, Google’s vice president for North and Central Europe, that the company’s tax practices were “devious, calculated and, in my view, unethical.”

Even before the Senate subcommittee invited Mr. Cook to testify, the British prime minister, David Cameron, declared that the topic would be a focus of the meeting of the Group of 8 richest countries he plans to convene next month at Lough Erne in Northern Ireland.

“We need a truly global solution,” Mr. Cameron wrote in a letter to Herman Van Rompuy, president of the European Council, in April. “As I am sure you will agree, the path to reform starts with the basic recognition that current global tax rules do not reflect the modern and globalized economy that our citizens live and trade in.”

Ireland, with an economy that ranks 47th in the world, is not a member of the Group of 8.

Ireland’s deputy prime minister, Eamon Gilmore, on Tuesday disputed the Senate report’s contention that Apple paid a special rate, saying “Ireland doesn’t negotiate special tax rate deals with any companies.” He said that if Apple was not paying its fair share elsewhere in Europe, the fault lay in “loopholes” in other European countries that make it too easy for companies to avoid taxation.

“That’s an issue that has to be addressed first of all in those jurisdictions,” Mr. Gilmore told reporters in Brussels.

The charge by the Senate subcommittee that Apple avoided paying $44 billion in taxes in the United States by keeping the bulk of its $102 billion cash hoard offshore has struck a nerve here in a recession-racked country where unemployment is 15 percent and the government is looking for ways to repay an 80 billion euro bailout, now equivalent to $103 billion, that it received from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund in 2010.

“There is something wrong with this picture — the revenues of these companies keep increasing while our workers are getting crushed,” said Peter Mathews, a chartered accountant who is also a member of the Irish Parliament for the governing Fine Gael party. “Apple’s cash pile is about the size of our national income. Why not have them pay a 4 percent levy to contribute to our national recovery?”

Apple, which set up its first overseas headquarters in 1980 in Cork to assemble Macintosh computers, has a long history with the Irish. Its 4,000 workers — the largest Apple labor force in Europe — is significant in a country of only 4.6 million people. Apple’s employees assemble iMacs and Mac Pros and are also engaged in research, customer service and other support functions. “Our tax system may be lax, but in exchange we get jobs and more foreign investment,” said Stephen Kinsella, an economist at the University of Limerick who contributes to the influential Irish Economy blog. “No doubt about it, the benefits outweigh the costs.”

Irish politicians through the years have stood behind the country’s official 12.5 percent corporate tax rate, so much so that three years ago when the previous government negotiated the international bailout, it refused to budge when European negotiators wanted to make a higher tax rate a condition for a deal.

Government figures show that in 2010 the effective rate on the gross income of companies here was only 6 percent, and economists say that in some cases — as with Apple — it can go lower than that. That stands in contrast to the effective corporate tax rate in other countries: 29 percent in the United States, 22 percent in Britain, 27 percent for France and 24 percent for Germany.

More than 600 American companies have set up in Ireland, employing 100,000 Irish workers and enjoying the advantages of an English-speaking work force and low taxes.

Representatives of several American companies, including Amazon and Starbucks, have, like Google and Apple, insisted that they comply with the law.

“Apple does not use tax gimmicks,” Mr. Cook told the Senate subcommittee Tuesday.

Under European Union law, companies based in one European country are permitted to do business across the 27-nation bloc, and Internet companies, in particular, use that rule to book their European revenue in the country offering the greatest tax benefits. For many, that is Ireland.

But if Ireland were to change its approach to taxation, other low-tax European countries like Luxembourg and Slovakia would simply take its place.

“Back in the 1970s and ‘80s, when Ireland was a poor state desperately trying to attract investment, tax was a weapon that others weren’t using,” said Richard Murphy, founder of the Tax Justice Network, a group in London that campaigns against tax havens. “So Ireland developed a twofold strategy: low rates and not too many questions. It became the conduit state of choice.”
533 2013-05-22 Reassuring comments from a Federal Reserve official and better earnings from two big retailers helped push the stock market higher on Tuesday.

Stock indexes wobbled between gains and losses in early trading, then took a turn higher just before noon. That’s when news outlets reported that James Bullard, president of the Fed’s St. Louis branch, had told an audience in Germany that the Fed should continue its bond-buying effort to bolster the economic recovery.

“Those words were a salve for investors’ nerves,” said Lawrence R. Creatura, a fund manager at Federated Investors. Other Fed officials have recently talked about scaling back the program. “There’s a lot of uncertainty surrounding this issue,” Mr. Creatura said. “And uncertainty and investors aren’t always a happy match.”

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 52.30 points, to 15,387.58, a gain of 0.3 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index edged up 2.87 points, to 1,669.16, a 0.2 percent bump. Both the Dow and the S.& P. are at record highs, not factoring for inflation. In addition, the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index rose 5.69 points, to 3,502.12, a 0.2 percent gain.

Many investors were already looking ahead to Wednesday, when the Federal Reserve will release minutes from its most recent policy meeting and its chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, will go before Congress to discuss his economic outlook.
534 2013-05-22 I love pineapple smoothies. In this one I use carrot juice for the liquid and it works beautifully, as it’s neither too sweet nor too acidic.

1/4 ripe pineapple, cored, skinned and cut into 1-inch pieces (about 1 heaped cup, or 7 ounces)

1. To soak the chia seeds, place in a jar or bowl and add 4 tablespoons water for every tablespoon of chia seeds. Place in the refrigerator for several hours or overnight. The seeds and water will be become gelatinous.

2. Scoop up a tablespoon of seeds with the gooey liquid and place in a blender (don’t worry, your smoothie won’t have this consistency). Add the remaining ingredients and blend for 1 full minute at high speed.
535 2013-05-23 Anyone who has ever confronted a dissertation deadline with blank pages and a paralyzed mind will identify with “Nancy, Please,” a darkly comic psychodrama about academic pressure and irrational paranoia.

Focusing on Paul (Will Rogers), a floundering Yale Ph.D. candidate, this tricky, articulate debut feature from Andrew Semans (written with Will Heinrich) weaves a sturdy story from the flimsiest of premises. Having moved in with his no-nonsense girlfriend (Rebecca Lawrence), Paul discovers that his annotated copy of “Little Dorrit” has been left behind at his old apartment.

Convinced that those notes are critical to his work, Paul asks his former roommate, Nancy (Eléonore Hendricks, simply perfect), to return the book. But Nancy — who, we have already gathered from throwaway remarks, may be less than sweet — seems reluctant to help. Is she crazy or just crabby?

Maintaining a tone that’s precisely balanced between terror and farce, Mr. Semans refuses to answer, directing our attention instead to Paul’s mental state as he conducts an increasingly alarming campaign of retrieval. Friends and career languish on the back burner as he spirals downward, and the film erupts with omens.

It’s a brutally unsympathetic portrait of situational anxiety that withholds comfort from Paul and viewer alike, and Mr. Semans refuses to relent. He understands that those squirrels scurrying in your walls and that bug floating in your coffee are easier to deal with than an angry adviser and an uncertain future, but don’t for a moment expect him to commiserate.
536 2013-05-23 In a sign of Wall Street’s resurgent influence in Washington, bank lobbyists are aiding lawmakers in preparing legislation that softens financial regulations....
537 2013-05-23 The four executives were ordered to testify before a grand jury investigating actions at the hedge fund....
538 2013-05-23 Two former leaders of al-Muhajiroun, an extremist group with a small following that was banned in Britain after terrorist attacks in London in 2005, told reporters on Thursday that one London attack suspect was part of their circle....
539 2013-05-23 A new restaurant in London’s vibrant neighborhood of Farringdon, Bird of Smithfield, offers a mix of British comfort food and steakhouse classics....
540 2013-05-23 Matching cars, costumes and pianos were a recurring Liberace theme, as familiar in his act as his signature tune, “I’ll Be Seeing You.”...
541 2013-05-23 “Women or Nothing,” by Ethan Coen, is scheduled to begin previews Aug. 28....
542 2013-05-23 Consult Your Community has very grand goals. It wants to address income inequality and help rebuild the American economy, and it plans to do this by deploying business students to provide free consulting to local businesses....
543 2013-05-23 One outstanding question is how transparent the Obama administration will be about drone strikes in the future....
544 2013-05-23 The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board said the firm found a fraud risk in nine audits in 2009 but did not sufficiently follow up on the risk....
545 2013-05-23 KABUL, Afghanistan — Hard-line Islamist students protested in the Afghan capital on Wednesday, demanding the repeal of a presidential decree for women’s rights that they say is un-Islamic. It was the latest sign of a backlash against the legal protections passed in the 12 years since the toppling of the Taliban government known for its harsh treatment of women.

The protest came days after conservative lawmakers’ vehement opposition blocked an attempt to cement the decree’s provisions in legislation.

Most of the international force that ousted the Taliban is now preparing to withdraw by the end of next year, and activists fear an erosion of women’s rights will follow if hard-liners pressure the elected government.

More than 200 male students protested in front of Kabul University on Wednesday against the decree on Elimination of Violence Against Women, which includes a ban on child marriage and forced marriage, makes domestic violence a crime and says rape victims cannot be prosecuted for adultery. It also outlaws “ba’ad,” a traditional practice of exchanging women or girls to settle disputes or debts.

A protester, Fazel Hadi, 25, said the decree was “imposed by foreigners” and violated Shariah law.

President Hamid Karzai issued the decree three years ago as part of a raft of commitments to international donors, but the lawmaker and activist Fawzia Kofi wanted to pass it in Parliament to prevent any future president from reversing it.
546 2013-05-23 An online conversation with a young energy activist turned solar entrepreneur....
547 2013-05-23 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
548 2013-05-23 Some are holding up Cambodia as a model for manufacturing practices in a poor country. They shouldn’t....
549 2013-05-23 A core value at H.Bloom is to be direct with colleagues about areas of improvement....
550 2013-05-23 Leonard Marsh was born in Brooklyn on Jan. 5, 1933, and reared in the Brownsville neighborhood there. His father was a cobbler; his mother and Mr. Greenberg’s mother, he later said, pushed them in baby carriages together.

After graduating from Samuel J. Tilden High School in Brooklyn, Mr. Marsh held various jobs, including washing windows and dealing in chickens and eggs.

In their beverage company’s early years, the three men hedged their bets: Mr. Marsh and Mr. Golden continued the window-washing business they operated together, and Mr. Greenberg kept the health food store he ran in the East Village in Manhattan.

But by the 1980s, with consumers seeking more healthful bottled drinks, Snapple’s sales had increased; with the introduction in 1987 of the first of its bottled iced teas, it solidified its position as a leader in the New Age beverage market.

The company became known for its whimsical advertisements, notably a 1990s television campaign by Kirshenbaum & Bond featuring the Snapple Lady, a warm, earthy woman with a meaty New York accent. The character was played by Wendy Kaufman, an employee in Snapple’s order department.

After Snapple was acquired by Quaker Oats, Mr. Marsh stayed on for a few years as executive vice president for planning.

Snapple, whose product line now includes juices, fruit punches and teas, is currently owned by the Dr Pepper Snapple Group of Plano, Tex.

Mr. Golden died in 2008; Mr. Greenberg died last year. Besides his sister, Mildred Golden, Mr. Marsh’s survivors include his wife of 57 years, the former Marian Ebner; a daughter, Robin Ross; two sons, Bradley and Peter; and eight grandchildren.

When Mr. Marsh began Unadulterated Food Products with his colleagues, he knew chickens and he knew eggs. He also knew windows. But when it came to his start-up venture, as he told Crain’s New York Business in 1989, he knew “as much about juice as about making an atom bomb.”

The three men did wind up making a bomb of sorts: a batch of carbonated apple juice that accidentally fermented, shooting scores of bottle caps skyward.

But in that early cloud of failed apple juice lay a silver lining. The name the men had conceived for the product — Snapple, a portmanteau word embodying a congenial marriage of “snappy” and “apple” — was retained for the company as a whole.
551 2013-05-23 The Vatican took a step on Wednesday to show greater financial transparency by publishing the first report from its financial watchdog agency and announcing new regulations to fight money laundering and terrorism financing. The report from the Financial Intelligence Authority showed the agency received six internal reports on suspicious transactions in 2012, up from one a year earlier, and that two were sent onto Vatican prosecutors for investigation. The Vatican created the oversight agency in 2010 in a bid to shed its image as a secretive tax haven and improve its reputation in global financial circles following a series of scandals at its bank and a money laundering investigation.
552 2013-05-23 ALBANY — Who needs the Cayman Islands?

In his latest effort to energize upstate New York’s economy, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo announced a plan on Wednesday to turn large parts of the state university system into “tax-free” havens for new businesses opening on their campuses.

The plan, “Tax-Free N.Y.,” will offer college-friendly companies exemptions from a wide variety of state taxes — including those on sales, property, the income of employees and owners — for 10 years.

“What do we mean by tax-free?” asked Mr. Cuomo, at the program’s announcement at the College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering at the State University at Albany. “We mean tax-free.”

Mr. Cuomo’s plan would effectively open tens of millions of square feet at dozens of SUNY campuses to new businesses without collecting taxes. It would also allow three million square feet of tax-free business at private colleges north of Westchester County, as well as up to 200,000 square feet in zones adjacent to SUNY campuses.

In his announcement, Mr. Cuomo described the eligible business as those “with a relationship to the academic mission of the university and companies creating new jobs.” Medical device companies, for example, might find tax havens at SUNY universities with strong medical programs, while schools with strong music programs might attract businesses with an artistic bent.

Not every business would qualify, according to the administration: retail outlets, like Starbucks, would still pay taxes.
553 2013-05-23 The provisions to ease the green card process enjoy bipartisan support, reflecting a stark reality: Nearly half of all engineering graduate students at American universities are from abroad.

Technology companies, like and , want to hire many more of them, which is why they have lobbied to make it quicker for them to get permanent residency. So has the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, a group that campaigns for American workers.

Still, not everyone is a fan. Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a -based research and advocacy group, who has testified against the legislation, said easy, unlimited access to green cards for math and science graduates could encourage the emergence of “visa mills,” or schools established just to sell access to the United States. Also, he said: “American young people with bachelor’s degrees see these occupations distorted by large-scale admissions of foreign workers. That then changes their own decision making about what to do in the future.”

The green card provisions have been obscured by the louder, more polarizing fight between industry and labor over foreign guest worker visas, known as H-1Bs. But they stand to have a far greater impact on the men and women who drive this industry.

Mr. Sant, like many of his friends, was drawn to the United States for higher education. In 2010, the most recent year for which data is available from the , a government agency, 45 percent of master’s and doctoral students in engineering were from abroad, up from 35 percent in 1990 and 24 percent in 1980, according to the agency.

At some universities, the share of foreign students is even higher. At , which has one of the most prestigious engineering schools in the world, 62 percent of engineering graduate students came from abroad, and at the Rochester Institute of Technology, 56 percent.

This year, at the , the figure is 68 percent, according to university officials.

Among those who come to study in this country, about one in three end up staying on temporary work visas, mainly through the H-1B program. An analysis by the concluded that in 2010, 30 percent of those who were working on H-1B visas were former students at American universities. Their wait for permanent residency can be frustratingly long, depending on their homeland.

According to data from the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, more than 150,000 of them have filed for green cards since 2010; nearly a third of them are from India, the largest single block.

Kartik Shah, 29, was among them. A native of , he went to the University of Southern California, in , for a master’s degree in electrical engineering. He graduated in 2007 and swiftly landed a job as a software engineer at ’s headquarters in , just south of here.

The company soon filed a green card application on his behalf, which it says it does for the vast majority of its H-1B workers. The government cleared his application, essentially ruling that his skills were needed. Then, it told him to wait.

So far the wait has been six years, and he has no idea when it will end. He is nervous about exploring other job options, for fear of losing his place in the green card line. (The draft bill would free up workers from their green card sponsors.)

Two evenings a week, he rides the bus an hour each way from his office in San Jose to the , where he is working toward a master’s in business administration. Perhaps, by the time he finishes, in the spring of 2014, his green card will be ready and he will be able to put his M.B.A. to use.

Still, he is reluctant to pin his hopes on the bill now on the Senate floor. If the overhaul fails, it would depress him too much.

“It’s very frustrating,” he said. “Whenever we are hanging out with friends and this topic comes up, it’s actually a very depressing topic.”

His onetime roommate, Rushil Kadakia, 32, says he is likewise not losing sleep over what happens in the Senate. He and his wife, an engineer at , are both in line for a green card. They have a 6-week-old daughter at home, an American citizen by birth.

“I’m taking everything with a grain of salt,” he said. “I’m keenly following it, but I’m not optimistic.”

He joked that maybe his daughter could eventually sponsor her parents. “Twenty-one years down the line,” he said.

Mr. Sant, a native of Ahmedabad, in western India, came here to earn a master’s degree, then a Ph.D. in electrical engineering, specializing in semiconductors. He got a job at a company making semiconductor equipment, published papers in academic journals and earned several patents.

His wife gave up her career as a surgeon back home in India when she came to this country as his bride; under current law, a spouse of a temporary visa holder is barred from working. The draft law would grant them work papers.

Going back home is not an option for Mr. Sant. His specialty is semiconductor equipment research, and not much of it happens in India. And anyway, he says, India has changed so much in the 13 years he has been away, and he has become so much more of, well, an American.

“I went to India last year. The whole culture is different. I don’t relate to it any more,” he said. “I feel home is here.”
554 2013-05-23 Re “Billions in Taxes Avoided by Apple, U.S. Inquiry Finds” (front page, May 21):

Lawmakers are shocked, shocked to hear that Apple’s management may have arranged the company’s affairs so as to minimize its tax bill. As we brace for a torrent of tiresome criticism, it’s worth remembering these points:

Tax avoidance is legitimate; there has been no hint of tax evasion, which is illegal.

The company’s management has a fiduciary responsibility to act in the best interest of its shareholders; ignoring the opportunity to reduce its tax bill might be considered negligent.

If lawmakers don’t like the current tax laws they should work to change them, rather than castigating a company that is apparently working within the laws.

Can we please start calling the pernicious practice of corporations and wealthy individuals not paying their fair share in taxes what it is? It is stealing money from the American people. It may be legal — only because Congress refuses to step up and make it illegal. But corporations and wealthy individuals who seek overseas tax protection are taking money away from America’s families, schools, roads, military, water systems, our entire infrastructure.

As a middle-class citizen who pays my fair share in taxes, I am sick and tired of subsidizing the rich. We would have no need for our current debilitating sequester, or our endless debates about raising revenues versus spending cuts, if wealthy people and companies would simply pay the taxes they should.

What is it with The Times’s crusade against Apple? Apple will pay more than $7 billion in corporate taxes to the United States Treasury in 2013. The company has fully cooperated with a Senate subcommittee investigating reforms to the tax code. Moreover, the company has suggested tax reforms that it knows would result in its paying higher corporate taxes, including reforms that would encourage repatriation of money earned abroad.

I feel that, whatever its shortcomings, Apple has been an extraordinary American and global innovator and am dismayed that The Times seems to have singled it out for disapprobation. It is excessive if not obsessive. Apple’s policies do not differ greatly from those of scores of other multinational operations.

Here’s the solution: Tax all companies incorporated in the United States on their worldwide income, regardless of the machinations they employ to hide income from taxes.

Corporations are now treated as individuals as far as political contributions are concerned. If corporations want to be treated as individuals, let them be taxed as individuals.
555 2013-05-23 Johan Lubbe, a legal adviser to the National Retail Federation, asserts that the Americans’ worries about litigation are legitimate. “The liability issue is of great concern, at least on this side of the Atlantic,” Mr. Lubbe said. “For U.S. corporations, there is a fear that someone will try to impose liability and responsibility if something goes awry in the global supply chain.”

For example, if a Bangladesh factory burns and workers die, the victims’ families, represented by zealous American lawyers, might seize on the legal commitments in the accord to file lawsuits in the United States against retailers that bought apparel from the factory.

John C. Coffee Jr., a professor of corporate law at Columbia University, said American companies generally faced a higher risk of litigation than overseas competitors, largely because the court systems differ significantly. Unlike the system in the United States, courts in Europe generally prohibit class-action lawsuits, do not allow contingency fees for lawyers who win cases and require losing parties to pay legal fees for both sides. Those policies often discourage lawyers and plaintiffs from filing lawsuits.

But Professor Coffee also cited a Supreme Court decision last month that could greatly reduce the ability of overseas factory workers and their families to file lawsuits in United States courts.

“It may be that those retailers who worry about legal liability are pointing to an outdated sense of what liability is for actions taken abroad,” Professor Coffee said. He added that if an accident occurred abroad — for instance, at a factory in Bangladesh — “there is an increasing doubt that the American retailer could be sued in the United States,” because the Supreme Court ruling, Kiobel v. Royal Dutch Petroleum, went far to curb such lawsuits under the Alien Tort Claims Act.

Long before the Bangladesh safety plan was developed, overseas workers had sued American retailers over illegally low wages, 12-hour shifts and the use of guard dogs and barbed wire fences, said Scott Nova, executive director of the Worker Rights Consortium, a university-backed factory monitoring group. In 2003, Gap, Nordstrom, Target, Wal-Mart and 20 other retailers settled a lawsuit for $20 million on behalf of 30,000 garment workers on the Pacific island of Saipan who alleged those abuses.

Mr. Lubbe cited a more recent lawsuit as evidence that American retailers still faced risks. Last year, the University of Wisconsin sued Adidas, demanding that it pay $1.8 million in severance benefits to former workers at an Indonesian factory it used. The factory’s owner had failed to comply with an order to pay those benefits to 2,800 workers who lost their jobs.

Mr. Nova said the University of Wisconsin lawsuit was based on a licensing agreement with more specific obligations than the Bangladesh accord. Adidas had pledged to comply with a labor code of conduct that said it must “ensure that all manufacturers comply” with the code and “provide legally mandated benefits,” such as severance benefits.

Under the international agreement, a great number of Bangladesh’s more than 5,000 apparel factories could be affected. Some workplace experts estimate that fixing safety problems could cost at least $500,000 on average per factory, meaning that the countrywide price tag could easily exceed $1 billion over several years. Some note, however, that the expense would be just a fraction of the $18 billion worth of apparel exported annually by Bangladesh, the second-largest garment exporter after China.

Gap’s spokesman, Bill Chandler, said the accord contained numerous provisions that worried American retailers. He said the plan’s binding, contractual nature could impose large legal obligations that were hard to estimate because of the plan’s ambiguities.

For instance, it does not detail how much the Bangladeshi apparel manufacturer should pay toward needed safety upgrades — perhaps factories lack a fire escape — and how much the Western companies that use those factories should pay. Another ambiguity is how costs for safety improvements will be apportioned among the several Western companies that buy garments from a given factory in Bangladesh.

“The language is vague and unclear and thus there can be too much legal liability for our company in Bangladesh,” Mr. Chandler said. Such statements cause some supporters of the plan to assert that American retailers’ real objection is the price of financing safety improvements.

Paul Lister, director of legal services at Associated British Foods, the parent of Primark, a retailer that has signed the Bangladesh accord, acknowledged that the plan has ambiguities. He said the signatories planned to work with government and labor officials over the next 45 days to decide on the details.

“It’s not a perfect document,” Mr. Lister said. “We’ll deal with the imperfections in the document, and we have to deal urgently with the underlying issue — the moral and ethical issues of fire safety and building integrity in Bangladesh.”

Sounding far different from American retailers, Anna Gedda, manager for social sustainability at H&M, the Swedish company that is the biggest buyer of apparel from Bangladesh, voiced little concern about legal liability.

“The fact that it was a legally binding accord was not a big issue,” she said. “I know it is for American brands but it isn’t for us.” The accord contains a clause that calls for settling disputes through independent arbitrators in an effort to keep disputes out of court.

“This whole fear of lawsuits is a straw man,” said Philip J. Jennings, general secretary of Uni Global Union, a worldwide federation of 20 million retail and service workers, who has negotiated with various retailers to develop the plan and persuaded them to join it. “If these American retailers get 20 lawyers in a room, they start hyperventilating about lawsuits and they’ll have a communal anxiety attack.”

Matthew Shay, president of the National Retail Federation, gave another reason for opposing the Bangladesh plan, saying it “seeks to advance a narrow agenda driven by special interests,” a reference to the labor unions that helped shape the plan and then pressed retailers to sign on.

Jyrki Raina, general secretary of IndustriALL, a union federation with 50 million members from 140 countries, said that European retailers were receptive because they often deal with and negotiate with labor unions.

In rejecting the accord, Wal-Mart outlined its own proposals that it said would meet or exceed the accord’s goals. The company, the world’s largest retailer, predicted quicker results, saying it would inspect all of the 279 factories it uses in Bangladesh over the next six months.

While Wal-Mart, voicing concern about potential liability, said the plan “introduces requirements, including governance and dispute resolution mechanisms, on supply chain matters that are appropriately left to retailers, suppliers and government.”

Representative Sander Levin of Michigan, the senior Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee, who has urged the Obama administration to do more to improve factory safety in Bangladesh, criticized Wal-Mart’s approach. “It’s been left up to the retailers, suppliers and government all these years, and that hasn’t worked,” he said.
556 2013-05-23 I’d play softball games in Prospect Park and hear the butter-smooth voice of the Mets announcer Bob Murphy on transistor radios (Yes, transistor radios; if I’m going to date myself, let’s be historically accurate).

Much of this is owed to the Brooklyn Dodgers, and to the lineal and inchoate line between fans of Dem Bums and these Mets. (I came to my Mets fandom through my father, who grew up outside Boston and yet, for reasons mysterious, chose to root for the Boston Braves rather than the Red Sox. When he came to New York, he and my mother rooted for the baseball Giants until that team packed off for San Francisco.)

Then we all became fervent Mets fans.

The Mets fit the Brooklyn aesthetic of 1981. It was outer-borough scrappy; bad subway lines, a few ethnic restaurants and good for an odd look if you told a Manhattanite where you lived.

That was then. Park Slope has tripped steadily upward, from working middle class to upper middle class to Gold Coast, my-wife-works-at-J.P.-Morgan-while-I-noodle-on-my-novel-and-the-nanny-takes-the-kids-to-soccer-practice neighborhood. The aesthetic is triumphal, more Yankee. (O.K., to draw a comparison between baseball and class loyalties is a juvenile conceit. Some of my best friends are Yankee fans. But humor me.)

In this context, Mr. Weiner’s nod toward the Mets feels delightfully contrarian and retro. It’s like calling yourself an outer-borough “stoop guy” when you live, as Mr. Weiner and his wife, Huma Abedin, now do, in a sprawling, prewar apartment on Park Avenue. Their “neighborhood joint” is the Gramercy Park Hotel, where two eggs any style, coffee and orange juice for two set you back $52 (with tip).

You can still eat the same meal for two for $15 at Purity Diner in Park Slope.

Mr. Weiner’s effort to establish his authenticity mirrors his broader challenge. He must run a citywide apology campaign — “Look, I made some big mistakes,” he says in his video — that is co-terminus with his mayoral campaign.

His narrative lines cross and spark in uncomfortable ways. So he tells The New York Times Magazine that he tweeted most unfortunately, resigned from Congress in disgrace, begged forgiveness from his wife and became the “primary caretaker” for his baby son. Sounds pretty redemptive.

Two weeks later he talks to my colleague Michael Barbaro and brags about his business acumen and all the cash he’s making — and that he should be making more.

“I’m a good capitalist,” he crows. “Things kind of came over the transom.”

This is perhaps not quite miraculous. He’s a good hustler of a former congressman who walked away knowing how to pull on the levers of power.

Let’s circle back to his Mets loyalty. It’s clean and authentic; he’s the underdog who loves the underdog. I dig that.

My younger son, Aidan, came home from college and immediately took the long subway ride to Citi Field on Wednesday, to root for a team with a first baseman who scratched out a hit barely one time every 10 at-bats.

He munched hot dogs and made some noise in a two-thirds full stadium. The Mets lost, of course.

Pain is woven into the equation. I assume Mr. Weiner understands that.
557 2013-05-23 On Wednesday, Lois Lerner, who leads the I.R.S.’s division on tax-exempt organizations, prompted angry denunciations from lawmakers by proclaiming her innocence and then quickly invoking her Fifth Amendment right to refuse to answer questions. Representative Tim Walberg, Republican of Michigan, marveled at the “amount of ineptitude” at the I.R.S. and proposed that Ms. Lerner’s refusal to answer questions from the committee suggested “there’s some concern about criminality” regarding what happened at the tax agency.

Representative John Mica, Republican of Florida, accused Ms. Lerner’s former boss, Douglas Shulman, of having “closed down or gagged” I.R.S. employees from telling the truth.

In short, Wednesday’s I.R.S. hearing felt like an inquisition — unforgiving, angry, prosecutorial.

Mr. Cook, by contrast, took his hot seat in front of senators who seemed halfhearted in their desire to beat up on the rich guy who makes their iPhones, and whose products are far more popular than they are.

“With him, they were just not going to go up against an American success story,” said Neil Eggleston, a veteran Washington lawyer who has prepared many government officials to face a grilling at the hands of lawmakers.

But Mr. Eggleston said Ms. Lerner and the other I.R.S. officials never had a chance at changing the narrative of their hearing. Before such sessions, Mr. Eggleston said, he is honest with his clients: “You are going to get beat up. You are going to get yelled at. There’s no way to turn the tide in your favor.”

The hearings of Mr. Cook were in striking contrast to those 15 years ago of Bill Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, who was skewered by lawmakers and his rivals over using monopoly power to run over his business rivals.

Mr. Gates was disdainful of Washington and politicians when he arrived from Seattle for his first Capitol Hill appearance in 1998. That did not serve him well. Microsoft’s Windows — highly crash-prone at the time — along with irritants like “Clippy,” the obsequious talking paper clip who popped up on computer screens offering to help write letters, hardly endeared Mr. Gates to consumers.

Not so Mr. Cook and Apple. Even the often-cantankerous Mr. McCain, who as recently as 2008 still used an old-fashioned flip phone, concluded his questioning with a jocular tech support query. “What I really wanted to ask you is why the hell I have to keep updating the apps on my iPhone all the time,” Mr. McCain said, prompting guffaws from the dais and the audience.

Public relations experts who help witnesses survive Capitol Hill hearings say the tenor of the sessions is often set well before the witnesses take their seats. How much the witnesses subsequently are pummeled often depends on whether they are able to tap into any reservoirs of good will on their issues among the public.

As an example, when lawmakers created a spectacle in 2005 by demanding the testimony of the nation’s top baseball stars during an investigation into steroid use, the questioning got rough. But the players were still heroes to millions — certainly more so than most of the lawmakers. (After the hearings, congressional staff members crowded around the sluggers, asking for autographed baseballs.)

In contrast, lawmakers pilloried the top executives of the auto companies in 2008 after they admitted to flying on corporate jets to Washington to beg the government for as much as $25 billion in help. Their appeals, though, came in the middle of an economic crisis and were roundly denounced by an outraged public.

This week, Mr. Cook tapped into the public’s good will to defuse the congressional anger. The I.R.S. officials had no such luck.

“This just shows the trust deficit that the I.R.S. has with the American public,” said Kevin Madden, a veteran Republican strategist who advises corporate clients on communications strategies. “The only thing that the American public hates more than the Congress right now is the I.R.S.”

There is always the possibility that a witness can change his or her fortunes by saying just the right thing at a congressional hearing.

Mr. Cook was well prepared, observers of his testimony said. During the hearing, he appeared to know as much about tax policy as the lawmakers asking him questions. (Mr. Cook might also have been helped by the “reality distortion field” that journalists often joked surrounded his predecessor, Steve Jobs, during rollouts of the latest “magical” iPhone or iPad.)

But Mr. Madden and others said the I.R.S. officials could hardly have said anything to defuse the anger, especially among Republicans eager to keep the issue alive.

Perhaps that was part of Ms. Lerner’s calculation when she decided to make an opening statement — and then shut up.

“I know that some people will assume that I’ve done something wrong,” she said. “I have not. One of the basic functions of the Fifth Amendment is to protect innocent individuals, and that is the protection I’m invoking today.”
558 2013-05-23 CENTENNIAL, Colo. — In the weeks before a mass shooting at a packed movie theater that left 12 dead and dozens wounded, James E. Holmes received six packages from an online ammunition dealer, according to newly unsealed court documents.

Mr. Holmes has been charged with 166 counts of murder, attempted murder and other charges in the attack, which took place last July 20.

The shipments were among other details scattered through search warrants and affidavits that were unsealed here on Wednesday. Much of the information had already emerged in earlier court hearings.

According to the documents, in the days after the shooting, the police moved to track boxes of ammunition and other packages sent to Mr. Holmes’s Aurora apartment, his mother’s home in San Diego and the University of Colorado Denver, where he was a neuroscience graduate student.

The documents showed that the authorities sought to obtain FedEx video of Mr. Holmes receiving deliveries from an Aurora shipping center, and of an unknown man shipping a package to Mr. Holmes on July 11 from Clearwater, Fla., with a declared value of $700.

In their search of Mr. Holmes’s property, the police seemed to pay particular attention to his iPod, seeking to mine the device for videos and other data that the authorities believed may have been used to plan the attack. They also thought the iPod might offer clues into Mr. Holmes’s mental state at the time.

This month, Mr. Holmes sought to change his plea to not guilty by reason of insanity, from not guilty. The judge in the case, Carlos A. Samour Jr., is expected to formally accept the request at the end of the month.
559 2013-05-23 But Dazzle wasn’t just a mash-up; it was also a mascot. The furniture fair — along with a host of exhibitions and openings taking place over the re-branded 12-day festival called NYCxDesign — showed that design is all over the map, its contours muddled and its direction uncertain.

To be sure, when more than 500 exhibitors from around the world put on a show, as they did at ICFF, you can expect diversity. But you should also be able to pick out coherent strains of form, material or style.

Apart from a mysterious eruption of bronze and copper objects, and Swarovski’s ongoing search for another household product in which to embed its crystals, those strains weren’t clear. Several years of recession have taken their toll on innovation. And while there were many goods to admire, few had the uplifting effect of groundbreaking design.

“I’m not seeing a lot of new ideas,” said Noel Wiggins, the founder of the New York design company Areaware, which is known for producing whimsical objects by local designers and this year showed a new version of a radio dock by Jonas Damon with an app for tuning in only public radio stations. “The design languages of the last five years are still with us.”

And yet there were nascent signs of what may be next. With each ICFF, more emissaries show up from the frontiers of technology to demonstrate how computer-controlled tools will transform the look, price and environmental impact of objects.

For example, the British designer Tom Dixon, who previously showed teams assembling lighting fixtures to demonstrate how easy it is to produce one’s own designs, this year appeared with a digital laser cutter and other tools to create what was, in effect, a portable pollution-free factory making lacy metal pendant lamps.

And Dirk Vander Kooij, a young Dutch designer, showed the Chubby chair, made with a robotic arm that extrudes brightly colored recycled plastic in a continuous line. Each chair takes about a half-hour to produce, Mr. Vander Kooij said, and sells for around $400. He also showed Chubby coat hangers, created from the variegated material the robot spits out when Mr. Vander Kooij changes the color of the plastic. The hangers are about $130 for a set of eight.

Chubby may not look like a revolution, but it is approaching one. Compared with the five-figure prices attached to 3-D-printed furniture a decade ago — pieces that took hours, if not days, to produce — Mr. Vander Kooij’s work is snappy and affordable. And it doesn’t have the brittle, ethereal quality of early 3-D printing. He drives home this point on his Web site, where he describes Chubby as: “precise as toothpaste. Heavy like oak.”

In another wing of the Javits show, Massan Dembélé, a master weaver from Burkina Faso, sat at a loom constructed from logs bound with twine and wove handspun cotton cloth decorated with West African totems, part of a program organized by the nonprofit British European Design Group to assist artisans in making goods for export. Mr. Dembélé operated the loom with his bare feet and wove his crocodiles and fish from patterns embedded in his brain.

Craft and small-batch production are ripe to produce something new as well. Though artisanship is often touted as an antidote to digital culture, Mr. Vander Kooij and Mr. Dembélé are more alike than different. Both men control the fabrication process, and that’s no small thing. With the collapse of the Rana Plaza building in Bangladesh renewing concerns about remote factory conditions, there is added value to the idea of designers producing locally and autonomously.

The furniture fair and the coterie of New York design week events offer a stage for such efforts. This year, for example, Wanted Design in Chelsea presented “The Carrot Concept,” a show of furniture produced in El Salvador by local designers, architects and entrepreneurs, working with Jerry Helling, the president and creative director of the American furniture company Bernhardt.

And though conceptual depth was rare, this design week did offer some of it, as when students of the Products of Design M.F.A. program at the School of Visual Arts appeared at Wanted Design with tools that helped visitors think more deeply about objects. A digital microscope, for instance, magnified surfaces 170 times to expose an alien world of beauty and order within everyday materials. In a related project, a series of brief recorded messages purported to express the viewpoints of the items on display.

Startling design innovation often follows material innovation. Nothing extraordinary happened on this front, either, but it is always enjoyable to watch designers at play.

At the Javits, John Eric Byers, a furniture maker, displayed gouged hardwood pieces that he painted and lacquered the color of sable and accented with 24-karat gold. At Wanted Design, Sinje Ollen, a knitter whose needles never left her hands while she chatted, showed an Egg chair by Arne Jacobsen sheathed in bumpy emerald green wool and a modular rug made of zipped strips of knitted fabric. At “NoHo Next,” a show of young designers’ work curated by the organizers of the three-year-old NoHo Design District, Souda from Brooklyn displayed textured, irregularly shaped porcelain vessels cast from leather molds. At Collective .1, a new design show on a Hudson River pier, Kyle DeWoody’s Grey Area gallery included work by Scott Campbell, a tattoo artist: fragrant wood panels burned with ornate patterns. And at BKLYN Designs, which returned to Dumbo after a hiatus, John Randall of Bien Hecho in the Navy Yard offered a water cooler shingled with wood from a New York City water tower.

All these events were staged under the new moniker NYCxDesign (pronounced “NYC by Design”). An initiative of City Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn, this 12-day assortment of some 200 activities covered all five boroughs and touched various design disciplines, from graphics to jewelry to architecture. The mission, Ms. Quinn has said, is to create jobs in these industries while attracting visitors to New York, much as they flock to the city for Fashion Week.

In its first year, NYCxDesign was mainly a marketing campaign, providing street banners, a Web site with listings, a scheduling app and a presence on digital billboards in Times Square. Designers should be grateful for that much. Design doesn’t get out and strut around like fashion, and it needs more visibility. Milan comes alive when design is celebrated, but New York design week gets lost in the urban shuffle.

As long as people can get past the confounding abbreviation, NYCxDesign is poised to help both design and the economy. Now that the festival is over, Ms. Quinn said, the Economic Development Corporation is studying its economic success and growth potential. She added that she is confident the initiative will continue and hopes she will be around to lead it, something that depends on the success of her mayoral candidacy.

“Whoever the next mayor is, they’ll have NYCxDesign,” she added. “There’s no question in my mind.”
560 2013-05-23 WASHINGTON — A Tennessee congressman who supports billions of dollars in cuts to the food stamp program is one of the largest recipients of federal farm subsidies, according to new annual data released by a Washington environmental group.

Using Agriculture Department data, researchers at the Environmental Working Group found that Representative Stephen Fincher, a Republican and a farmer from Frog Jump, Tenn., collected nearly $3.5 million in subsidies from 1999 to 2012. The data is part of the research group’s online farm subsidy database, from which the group issues a report each year.

In 2012 alone, the data shows, Mr. Fincher received about $70,000 in direct payments, money that is given to farmers and farmland owners, even if they do not grow crops. It is unclear how much Mr. Fincher received in crop insurance subsidies because the names of people receiving the subsidies are not public. The group said most of the agriculture subsidies go to the largest, most profitable farm operations in the country. These farmers have received $265 billion in direct payments and farm insurance subsidies since 1995, federal records show.

During debate on the farm bill in the House Agriculture Committee last week, Mr. Fincher was one of the biggest proponents of $20 billion in cuts to food stamps in the legislation. At times he quoted passages from the Bible in defending the cuts.

“We have to remember there is not a big printing press in Washington that continually prints money over and over,” Mr. Fincher said during the debate. “This is other people’s money that Washington is appropriating and spending.”
561 2013-05-23 The app can also run multiple stopwatch timers that count up rather than down. You start a stopwatch by setting a new timer to 00:00 and pressing “play.”

The app does have some limitations. For example, the countdown timers count only whole hours and minutes — not seconds — and the stopwatch function has no option for split-timing laps.

An equivalent app for Android devices with similarly high design values is the $1 app Timer. The app is simple to use: to set a new countdown timer, you tap the little “+” icon, and up pops a setting for hours, minutes and seconds.

To set the seconds, you move your finger around a circular dial, then tap on hours or minutes if you need them. You can start the countdown straightaway or save it for easy access later.

Many timers can run concurrently — handy if, for example, you are cooking several dishes for a dinner party — and the app has clear controls for pausing, ending or deleting timers.

One slight irritation with this app is its method for setting labels on timers: you have to “long press” them in the list of running or saved timers, and that can be easy to forget.

You also cannot set different reminder tones for different timers — which means that if you have a group of timers running concurrently, you will have to check your phone to see which one the alarm is referring to.

Simpler timing needs may be met with the Ovo Timer, a free app on Android. Its clever design reduces countdown timing to a minimum.

The app’s screen is dominated by the time you have set, which is done by tapping on the screen and circling your finger clockwise or counterclockwise. There is also an option to have the time you want spoken.

The countdown begins automatically; you can pause it by touching the numerals. A colorful arc surrounds the countdown, disappearing gradually as the time ticks away. The app is simple and it’s free, but it can run only one timer at a time and cannot handle countdowns longer than an hour.

If you are interested in stopwatch timing rather than countdown timing, you may find it simpler to use a dedicated stopwatch app. Apple’s iOS has a useful stopwatch built into the Clock app.

You can also try the Stopwatch+ app, $1 on iTunes, a slightly more sophisticated timer that records lap events in detail and even lets you e-mail your list of times. The Ultimate Stopwatch app on Android features a clean and easy-to-use design, and includes all the basic stopwatch features. And it’s free.

And that smoke from your kitchen probably means you burned the toast while reading this.

The popular book Peterson Field Guide to Birds of North America has been turned into a “pocket” edition app for iOS. Called Peterson Birds Pocket Edition, it is just $1, and comes with illustrations, data and bird song recordings to help identify birds you’ve heard, if not seen.
562 2013-05-23 Entering the series, the Spurs were expected to be physically overmatched by the Grizzlies’ snarling second-ranked defense, as they were in 2011. Instead, the Spurs have implemented their offense flawlessly, assisting on an outstanding 75 percent of their made buckets. Point guard Tony Parker’s incisive drives into the guts of the defense have yielded a bounty of open 3-pointers, something the Grizzlies specialize in preventing.

Parker has been phenomenal, but those great shots are not simply the result of individual brilliance. The Spurs, more than any other team, generate a tremendous amount of motion and misdirection on offense. Often the player who begins by setting a seemingly innocuous screen on one side of the court ends up being the player who, after a dizzying series of passes and cuts, winds up wide open for the shot.

A series of plays called Hammer exemplifies this precision and misdirection. The play begins simply enough with a ball screen on one side of the court for Parker or Manu Ginobili. Most defenses are trained to force the ball to the baseline on these plays, and the Spurs’ guards oblige by driving hard in that direction. But as is so often the case, the real action is on the other side of the court, where a shooter floats down to the corner and a big man “hammers” the shooter’s defender with a back screen the defender never sees coming.

The timing must be exquisite for it all to work. Parker’s drive captivates the defensive players, and just when they think he is cornered along the baseline, he leaps out of bounds, creating an angle to zip a pass to that suddenly open shooter in the corner.

The Spurs run plays like this almost every time down the court, and they do it at a high speed. Parker will often initiate the motion at a gallop so the Spurs have ample time to run through their intricate motions before the shot clock expires. It is akin to a football team running the no-huddle, except the Spurs do it all game. They operate with a perfectionist’s meticulousness, yet never take their foot off the pedal.

So far in the Western Conference finals, the Grizzlies have not been able to keep up. The Spurs have exploited the tendency of celebrated defenders like Tony Allen to gamble and forced the Grizzlies’ weakest defender, Zach Randolph, to stop the Spurs at the point of attack.

The Spurs have used a similar approach to handcuff the Grizzlies’ offense. The second-year wing Kawhi Leonard has simply abandoned Allen, who missed seven shots within five feet of the basket in Game 2, to double-team Randolph, the Grizzlies’ leading scorer, before he even gets the ball. As a result, Randolph is shooting under 27 percent for the series, and the Grizzlies as a team are shooting just 38 percent.

Leonard and the shooting guard Danny Green have infused the defense with dearly needed tenacity and athleticism. After two years in the Spurs’ system, both have earned Popovich’s trust by adopting the detail-oriented approach of veterans like Duncan and Parker. Thus far, they are more than redeeming their shy, unsure play in last season’s conference finals loss to the Thunder.

After dominating the first seven quarters of the series, the Spurs finally lost focus and the Grizzlies clawed back to tie Game 2 in regulation. The key was replacing Allen and Tayshaun Prince with better shooters who could punish the Spurs for swarming Randolph. If Memphis Coach Lionel Hollins sticks with this adjustment, it should make for a much closer series.

The Spurs know no lead is safe. They also held a 2-0 advantage against the Thunder in last year’s Western Conference finals before losing four straight games. But this is a nastier, tougher Spurs team.

Should they escape Memphis, they will be a difficult matchup for whoever comes out of the East. The Spurs are worthy of grand expectations. But if they get back to the top of the mountain, it will be a result of their exceptional diligence on the smallest details.
563 2013-05-23 At its first policy meeting under Mr. Kuroda last month, the bank unleashed what analysts have called a “shock and awe” monetary policy, a sea change for a bank that had come to be known in recent years for its caution and conservatism.

Declaring he would do “whatever it takes” to combat falling prices, Mr. Kuroda announced that the bank would seek to double Japan’s monetary base, as well as the bank’s holdings of Japanese government bonds, by the end of 2014.

In recent days, worries have grown about rising interest rates in the government bond market, which could threaten Japan’s monetary policy. Japan is vulnerable to rising borrowing costs because of its high public debt, which is twice the size of its economy. Bonds are also the main financial asset held by banks, pension funds and insurance companies, making a surge in debt yields perilous.

The scale of Japan’s quantitative easing is striking. Assuming that the Japanese economy grows by 2 percent a year, the Bank of Japan would expand its assets to just under 60 percent of the country’s gross domestic product, according to estimates from CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets.

The assets of the Federal Reserve, which now total about 20 percent of the American economy, and the European Central Bank’s assets, which come to about 28 percent of the euro zone’s G.D.P., pale in comparison.

Japan stands out in another important way. Under Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who took office in December and has been the main champion of the bank’s new boldness, Japan is coupling its monetary push with heavy government spending.

Barely two months into office, Mr. Abe pushed through an emergency stimulus package of 10 trillion yen, and last week the Japanese Parliament passed an initial budget of 92.6 trillion yen for 2013, with heavy spending on public works.

By contrast, the Fed and the European Central Bank have been forced to depend on monetary policy alone to stave off stagnation and bring about an economic recovery. In both the United States and Europe, a significant increase in government spending remains controversial.

Still, critics have pointed to Japan’s skyrocketing public debt as proof that such spending is not sustainable. The latest spending packages, they say, will be the final push that could send Japan plummeting into a Europe-like debt crisis. Defenders of the bank’s monetary policy had argued that Japan’s bold stimulus efforts would not push interest rates higher, because the central bank promises to buy bonds the government issues.

But in recent days, yields have been volatile, with the key 10-year nominal government bond yield hitting five-year highs last week before later settling down. Traders blamed the central bank’s purchases, saying they created a lack of liquidity in bond markets.

“We think Kuroda has done a great job in boosting asset prices by raising asset price inflation expectation, but he now has to calm down the sentiment in bond market,” Masaaki Kanno, chief economist at JPMorgan Securities Japan, said in a research note. “This is quite challenging.”
564 2013-05-24 Off the Charts: Under Obama, Stocks Do Better

President Obama this month became the fifth president to have the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index double from the level when he took office. Through Thursday, more than 52 months since he was inaugurated, the index was up 105 percent, or a compound annual rate of 18%. The latter figure is the highest for any president during the period during which the index has been calculated. Eight of the 10 economic sectors measured by S. & P. have done better, on an annualized basis, under Mr. Obama than under either of his two immediate predecessors. Since Mr. Obama took office, the United States stock market has performed better than markets in the next nine largest economies in the world.
565 2013-05-24 When an elderly woman asked my son and a friend for help moving a package into her home, my seventh grader saw “stranger danger” and refused....
566 2013-05-24 The Times's James B. Stewart on an example of a company resisting wider social pressures for less discrimination against gay employees.
567 2013-05-24 Original Apple-1 computers can now sell for hundreds of thousands of dollars at professional auctions. But the vintage machines have been selling informally for years. The story of the 1997 sale of an Apple-1, now residing at the Computer History ...
568 2013-05-24 No problems have been reported on customer vehicles, but Cadillac said it found some vehicles in its fleet with loose lug nuts....
569 2013-05-24 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
570 2013-05-24 Being depressed is known to increase the risk for stroke. Now a new study suggests that the association is even stronger in younger women....
571 2013-05-24 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
572 2013-05-24 The decision to allow openly gay Boy Scouts but not leaders elicited strong feelings from the scouting community.
573 2013-05-24 Jerome Leleu and Mille Cheng will be co-heads of its equity capital markets business in Asia. The pair will replace Justin Haik, who is moving to a new role as senior client relationship manager for equities in Asia....
574 2013-05-24 Apple’s iTunes 11 program moves the Downloads icon to a new location....
575 2013-05-24 Apple-1 computers, built in Steve Jobs’s family garage, have sold for hundreds of thousands of dollars in recent auctions, a run-up reflecting the company’s mystique, Steve Lohr reports in The New York Times....
576 2013-05-24 Years in the making, the deal was hailed as a step toward more enforcement cooperation between the two countries....
577 2013-05-24 With it, the government asserts, he paid for his cable television service, home repairs, dry cleaning, shoes and a host of other personal expenses, including cash gifts to his family.

The money was supposed to help support two organizations dedicated to furthering the cause of African-Americans.

The indictment says Mr. Brooks created a personal bank account to divert about $300,000 in donations to the Georgia Association of Black Elected Officials, of which he has been president since 1993. The money was supposed to finance voter registration drives, programs to fight child hunger and rehabilitate felons and other community efforts.

The government also claims Mr. Brooks used for his personal expenses nearly $800,000 that was donated to Universal Humanities, a charity he formed in 1990. Its purpose, at least on paper, was to help teach literacy and mentor the underprivileged.

The group exists in name only, according to the indictment. There are no offices, staff or evidence of actual programming. The board lists a number of individuals, some of whom had no idea they were on it.

The chairwoman is listed as Emma Gresham, 88, who had been a teacher and, for 17 years, the mayor of Keysville, Ga., a town near Augusta with fewer than 200 people, the majority of them African-American.

Reached at her home, Ms. Gresham could not recall the organization but said she had done literacy work for Mr. Brooks.

He has long been a hero in Keysville, where a street is named after him. In the 1980s, he helped get Ms. Gresham elected mayor in a town that was all but dying. It had no running water and a high level of illiteracy.

There had not been a mayor in 50 years. After a legal fight led by Mr. Brooks, Ms. Gresham became the first black to hold the office and greatly improved daily life for residents. “Tyrone taught us how to march,” she said.

Mr. Brooks said he began the Universal Humanities charity to teach people in Keysville to read.

In 1961, Mr. Brooks was 15. Caught up in the urgency of the civil rights movement, he walked into the offices of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference and volunteered. Six years later, Dr. King hired him.

Mr. Brooks claims to have been arrested over civil disobedience and other acts of protest 66 times.

At the urging of civil rights leaders, he became a state lawmaker in 1980. There he met Roy Barnes, a fellow Democrat who would later become governor. The two worked closely to remove the Confederate battle flag from the state flag, which had incorporated the design in 1956. The move contributed in part to the governor’s defeat in 2002. Mr. Barnes, a lawyer, is representing Mr. Brooks free of charge.

At a news conference in Mr. Barnes’s office here on Thursday, he said Mr. Brooks was guilty only of bad bookkeeping. With Mr. Brooks silently standing at his side, Mr. Barnes explained that the lawmaker had worked for the two charitable groups without fee. The donated money he used for personal expenses was essentially in lieu of a salary.

“His life is about serving, not amassing great wealth,” Mr. Barnes said. “If his life had been about wealth, he could afford to pay me.”

Mr. Barnes has also helped Mr. Brooks with one of his most enduring passions: solving what is widely considered to be the last public lynching in Georgia.

It happened in the summer of 1946 near Moore’s Ford Bridge, about an hour’s drive northeast of Atlanta in what was then the heart of cotton country.

More than a dozen men hauled two black couples from their car, dragged them down a bank and shot them. One of the slain men had just returned from service in World War II, and the murders contributed to President Harry S. Truman’s order to desegregate the military.

The lynching was investigated by the F.B.I. but remains unsolved. In 2001, Mr. Barnes, then governor, ordered the case reopened. Each year since 2005, Mr. Brooks has led a dramatic re-enactment of the lynching. He plans to do so again in July.

On the steps of the federal courthouse in Atlanta on Wednesday, local leaders of the N.A.A.C.P. gathered to suggest that the indictment might be linked to Mr. Brooks’s work on the case as well as his long history of political action in Georgia.

Edward O. DuBose, president of the state chapter, would not comment on whether he thought Mr. Brooks had indeed misappropriated money that might have otherwise helped the disadvantaged. The court, Mr. DuBose said, would decide Mr. Brooks’s guilt or innocence.

But Mr. DuBose and others said federal money might be better spent further investigating the lynching as well as financing the 2008 Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act.

“We’re concerned that our tax money and resources are being used to target one man,” Mr. DuBose said.

Mr. Brooks continues to have support in other African-American circles here, although the fiery rhetoric that came forth when news of the federal investigation leaked this year has been tamped down.

“Tyrone walks tall and has a lot of respect,” the Rev. Tim McDonald III said. “We’re walking carefully, of course, and a little bit quieter. But what we call the street committee is still behind Tyrone.”
578 2013-05-24 In Marcum’s case, a good chunk of the blame can be placed on the way he has pitched. But for Hefner, it has seemed as if the Mets will do anything they can to make sure they lose when he is on the mound.

It is not that Hefner, a second-year starter, has been all that good, with a 5.00 earned run average and a strikeout-to-walk ratio of 1.67. But four times this season he has pitched at least six innings and allowed three or fewer runs — with nothing to show for it. On April 30, against the lowly Miami Marlins, Hefner pitched eight innings, allowed two runs and struck out eight, but still managed to lose, 2-1.

Recently, Hefner has had the dubious task of following Harvey in the rotation. For all of the buzz surrounding Harvey, the Mets have been unable to establish any momentum from his dominant season. They have lost the game that followed each of his nine starts. And this dubious losing streak will be on the line Friday when Hefner — who else? — and the Mets play host to the first-place Atlanta Braves at Citi Field.

While no one would suggest that Mets players are consciously playing harder when Harvey pitches, something is askew.

Whether it is a drop-off in enthusiasm after a Harvey start — and the Mets are drawing better at home when he is on the mound, making for a more lively environment at the ballpark — or whether it is simply bad luck is impossible to pinpoint, but it is true that the Mets have averaged 4.6 runs per game with Harvey on the mound and 2.78 in the game that followed. For Hefner, a pitcher capable of a solid outing and little more, that is not a large enough margin of error to work with. Until the Mets solve that issue, Hefner’s losing streak may continue, completely negating the wins that Harvey provides.

The Yankees, a team with nearly $100 million on the disabled list — a total that eclipses the entire payrolls of 16 teams — are in first place in the highly competitive American League East. Much of the credit for the team’s resilience has to go to Vernon Wells, a veteran outfielder whose acquisition just before the season inspired more than a few snickers. But it is hard to find anyone laughing now that Wells has spent the last two months as the Yankees’ second-best hitter behind Robinson Cano.

Wells is second on the team in batting average (.287), runs scored (24) and home runs (10), and he leads the team in on-base percentage (.341).

To say that his performance has been surprising doesn’t do justice to how unexpected his contributions have been. He spent the last two seasons as possibly the most overpaid player in baseball, earning more than $47 million and producing a combined Wins Above Replacement (WAR) of 0.1. In 44 games for the Yankees, Wells already has a 1.5 WAR.

Even Wells’s defense, once a huge strength that had seemingly abandoned him, has shown improvement. Baseball Info Solutions has credited Wells with one defensive run saved this season, the first time he has had a positive overall mark in that category since 2007.

Wells and Travis Hafner, another retread pickup who was not expected to do much, have occupied the middle of the New York lineup all season and have done a reasonable approximation of what the team could have expected from Alex Rodriguez, Mark Teixeira, Curtis Granderson and the rest of the team’s walking wounded.

Relying on Wells and Hafner to continue producing would not be wise, as both were available at steep discounts to the Yankees for a reason. For Wells, the issues have centered on age and inconsistency, while Hafner has shown an inability to stay healthy. The statistical decline, in fact, has already started, with both players showing a noticeable drop-off since their strong Aprils.

But for the Yankees, Wells (and Hafner) have already exceeded expectations, symbols of Yankee astuteness, luck or what have you.
579 2013-05-24 The departing fish were largely in two major exhibition halls: “Explore the Shore” and “Alien Stingers.” Those buildings are expected to reopen in 2016, when the aquarium will unveil an ambitious new exhibition called “Ocean Wonders: Sharks!”

“The options were staying closed until we could reopen the entire aquarium or doing a partial reopening,” said Jon Forrest Dohlin, the aquarium’s director. “It was an incredibly complicated puzzle.”

One enhanced attraction, however, is a renovated Aquatheater, an outdoor exhibition with stadium seating. The hurricane did not delay the planned overhaul of the theater, which once featured dolphins but now stars sea lions.

The reason the repairs are so involved and costly has to do with the parts of the aquarium that had the most flooding. When the storm surge jumped the Boardwalk on Oct. 29, seawater poured down the stairs to the buildings’ basements. That was mainly where the holding areas and life-support systems were located.

The flood knocked out the aquarium’s electrical transformers and damaged the electrical distribution system and other vital pieces of equipment. The aquarium relied on generators until the end of December. “For an aquarium, what you see out front is the smallest part of the story from an animal husbandry standpoint,” Mr. Dohlin explained.

As the staff works to repair the other buildings over the next three years, the aquarium will rebuild the collection to its size before the hurricane. Until then, the public will have to make do without the jellyfish or anemones that were housed in “Alien Stingers” or the electric eels, lungfish and blind cave fish of “Explore the Shore.”

But there is still plenty to observe, including the tropical fish of the coral reefs and the “charismatic marine mammals,” as Mr. Dohlin put it, from sea lions and sea otters to harbor seals, penguins and walruses.

Of the three walruses in the collection, the public will have to wait a while longer to see Mitik. He is the baby walrus who was orphaned off the coast of Alaska last summer and adopted by the aquarium shortly before Hurricane Sandy struck. Weighing more than 400 pounds, Mitik is still in the aquarium’s health center. But he will soon meet the other walruses, both females: Nuka, who weighs 1,850 pounds, and the relatively svelte Kulu, weighing 1,278 pounds.

“Sometime this summer we’ll start socializing him,” Mr. Dohlin said of Mitik. “He’s a very sweet boy and we want the two girls to feel comfortable with him.”

Officials are eager to resume the aquarium’s education programs. This summer, it will offer a camp program and begin training teenage docents. In the fall, the aquarium will recommence its school program (12,000 schoolchildren used the aquarium’s classrooms the year before the storm), as well as professional development work for teachers.

Situated next to the Coney Island amusement rides, which go dark in winter, the aquarium is also an important year-round attraction. “We have a role here in Coney Island,” Mr. Dohlin said. “We’re an economic engine. We create $58 million in economic activity, and we take that very seriously.”

As for the aquarium’s own economic generators, they, too, will make a partial comeback. While the gift shop will reopen on Saturday, the cafe, which was badly damaged in the hurricane, will not. Until it can be repaired, an array of food carts near the entrance will take up the slack.
580 2013-05-24 While Washington, Vermont and several other states have also announced the details of their respective exchanges, California’s size and previous support for the health care law made it an important test of the law, said Paul B. Ginsburg, the president of the Center for Studying Health System Change, a nonpartisan research group in Washington. “A lot of people will be watching California to see how well it succeeds,” he added.

California chose to behave more like Massachusetts in aggressively negotiating with insurers on behalf of its residents. But other states are, at least initially, taking a more passive approach, in which they do not try to bargain over rates.

The 13 plans selected represent a range of insurers, from WellPoint, one of the nation’s largest commercial players, to plans like Alameda Alliance for Health and Molina Healthcare that in the past have specialized in providing coverage to low-income patients through the state’s version of Medicaid. Other entrants include health systems like Sharp HealthCare, a San Diego group of hospitals and doctors that also operates a health plan.

The four largest companies providing coverage to people who are not covered through an employer but buy a policy on their own will all be selling plans in the marketplace. They are Blue Shield; Anthem Blue Cross of California, owned by WellPoint; Kaiser Permanente, the health maintenance organization giant; and Health Net, a commercial insurer based in Los Angeles.

Several other large companies will be absent from the exchange, including the UnitedHealth Group, Aetna and Cigna. Unlike WellPoint, which operates a number of commercial Blue Cross plans that tend to have a sizable business offering individual coverage, the other companies have concentrated on employer coverage and have signaled that they will be cautious about which markets they will enter through the newly created exchanges.

“Aetna is taking a prudent and balanced approach to exchange participation in the first year,” the company said in a statement. “Our decisions about which exchanges to participate on are based on a careful review of key attributes, such as our current market presence, our ability to offer strong networks and competitively priced products and the regulatory environment in each state.”

Under the law, however, some insurers who sit out the first year could decide to enter the marketplace the second or third year. “As the economics, sustainability and dynamics of the exchange continue to become clearer over time, the exchange has the potential to be a growth market with much to offer UnitedHealthcare, other insurers and consumers,” a spokesman for UnitedHealthcare said.

The rates, which still need to be reviewed by state regulators, are not final, and officials on Thursday provided a small sampling of rates in areas around the country. In southern Los Angeles, for example, a 40-year-old individual would pay anywhere from $242 a month for a plan from HealthNet to $259 for plans from Molina or Anthem. The comparable plan for a small employer costs $362.

California took the step for 2014 to make sure the plans being offered had standard benefits so the pricing for plans does not vary widely, although there are differences. And some plans, like Anthem, boasted of their affiliation with well-known providers like the University of California hospitals and doctors.

While low-income individuals may still find paying $300 or more a month for a plan to be prohibitively expensive, consumer advocates praised the exchange’s ability to keep premiums in line with what employers pay and say it is a promising first step in the effort to force plans and providers to work harder to offer more affordable insurance.

“Health insurance isn’t cheap but this seems to provide individuals and families the group rate that large employers get,” said Anthony Wright, the executive director of Health Access California, a state consumer advocacy coalition.
581 2013-05-24 For those inclined toward social media, using Twitter while watching television has become a ritual, with viewers commenting on everything from sports events to nighttime dramas. On Thursday, executives from Twitter discussed how they planned to capitalize on that activity by allowing advertisers to send ads to people who are watching specific programming.

The new product will help brands match advertisements with Twitter commentary by viewers. Brands can then send messages to selected Twitter users who have already seen their ad on television.

“When people turn on TV they turn on Twitter,” said Matt Derella, the director of brand and agency strategy, who led a presentation on the product in Manhattan.

Twitter also announced it would work with a number of media companies, including Time Inc., Bloomberg, Discovery, Vevo, Vice Media, Condé Nast Entertainment and Warner Music Group, to sell advertisers content, in a partnership called Twitter Amplify. The content will probably be digital video or television content like clips from shows. It can then be shared on Twitter, and advertisers can run ads before the videos are viewed.

The format is similar to a partnership Twitter announced last year with ESPN and Ford, which embedded replays from football games in posts sent via Twitter. ESPN and Ford promoted the posts to people who had been identified as being interested in sports based on the accounts they followed on Twitter and the subjects of their posts.
582 2013-05-24 The United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, arriving just hours after a rebel group halted fighting to allow his visit to proceed, said Thursday that security must go hand in hand with development in the Democratic Republic of Congo’s eastern city of Goma. The Security Council authorized the creation of an intervention brigade, which will be based in Goma and will have an aggressive mandate allowing the peacekeepers to engage the M23 rebels stationed just north of the city. “The intervention brigade being deployed within the U.N. peacekeeping operation is designed to bring added stability and protect civilians,” Mr. Ban said. “But that is only one element of a much larger political process. A peace deal must deliver a peace dividend: health, education, jobs, opportunity.” He traveled to Congo with the World Bank president, Jim Yong Kim, who pledged $1 billion to aid countries in the region. On Monday, the rebels resumed fighting after a truce lasting nearly six months.
583 2013-05-24 The American Sam Querrey was eliminated from the quarterfinals of the Open de Nice clay-court event, losing to a French wild-card entry, Édouard Roger-Vasselin, 3-6, 7-6 (2), 6-1. Albert Montañés, Pablo Andújar and Gaël Monfils also advanced.
584 2013-05-24 Some conservative churches and parents said the Scouts were violating their oath to be “morally straight” and said they would drop out.

Still, for gay men who were forced out of scouting and for their allies, thousands of whom joined the push for change, the opening of membership was more than welcome.

“I’ve waited 13 years for this,” said Matt Comer, now 27, who had to leave his scout troop at 14 after he started a Gay-Straight Alliance at his school. Since the fourth grade, he said Thursday, he had dreamed of becoming an Eagle Scout and was crushed when he was denied the chance.

“Today we finally have some justice for me and others,” he said. “But gay youths will still be told they are no longer welcome when they turn 18.”

Leaders of the conservative faction predicted that lawsuits would soon force the Boy Scouts to allow openly gay leaders, and they accused the top leaders of ignoring the beliefs of their members.

“The fallout from this is going to be tremendous,” said Robert Schwarzwalder, a senior vice president of the Family Research Council, a conservative Christian group, and a father of two scouts in Northern Virginia. “I think there will be a loss of hundreds of thousands of boys and parents.”

“This great institution is going to be vitiated by the intrusion of a political agenda,” he said.

After the decision was announced Thursday, John Stemberger, an evangelical leader from Florida who organized a campaign to block the change, said that like-minded groups and parents would meet next month in Louisville, Ky., to discuss creating what he called a new “character development organization for boys,” an alternative to scouting.

Glaad, a gay-rights group that has campaigned for change over the last year, said it would keep pressure on the Boy Scouts over the leadership issue.

“We’ll continue urging corporate donors and public officials to withhold their support,” said Richard Ferraro, the group’s vice president for communications.

Several sponsors, including the UPS Foundation, Merck, the Intel Foundation, and many local United Ways and city agencies had already ended financing for the Scouts because the group’s policies violated their own nondiscrimination guidelines.

In a closed meeting of the assembled delegates here Wednesday night, the top three leaders of the Boy Scouts — Wayne Brock, the paid chief executive; Wayne Perry, the volunteer president who is a corporate leader from Washington State; and Tico Perez, the volunteer commissioner and a consultant in Florida — made a strong plea to delegates and dissenting board members to allow gay youths, saying the goal of scouting was to reach as many boys as possible, according to people who attended.

“This is not about what’s legal but what’s compassionate, caring and kind,” Mr. Brock reportedly said.

No similar proposal to allow gay adults was on the agenda, and the executives have said little about how they made the distinction. But in surveys this spring, many parents and volunteers around the country said they were against the idea of openly gay scout leaders.

The vote was a bittersweet one for David Knapp, 86, who spent much of his life in scouting as a boy, as a professional staff member and later as a volunteer with a council in Connecticut. He had tried to keep his sexual orientation a secret but one day in 1993, he said, two scout officials said, “We found out you are a homosexual,” and forced him out.

“I see this as a good step, but with a lot of misgivings,” he said of the limited opening to gays.

Some of the most conservative parents and leaders are already thinking of what comes next.

Allison Mackey of Hanover, Pa., has five sons — one an Eagle Scout, three now active in scouting and an 8-year-old who had planned to join.

The family has discussed the issue and reached a decision, she said: All the sons were willing to abandon the Boy Scouts if openly gay members are allowed.

“The Boy Scouts are something we’ve really enjoyed because they celebrate manliness and leadership,” she said. But, she added, she and her husband were “looking to encourage our sons in traditional Christian values.”

Personally, she said she would be disappointed to see her sons leave the Scouts.

“To stand by principles would be difficult,” she said. “But we’re going to have to say no. The organization is giving up freedom.”

In a meeting with reporters after the vote, Mr. Perry, the national president of the Boy Scouts, sought to put the rancor behind.

“We’re moving forward together,” he said. “Everyone agrees on one thing, no matter how you feel about this issue, kids are better off in scouting.”
585 2013-05-24 In that way, the Apple hearing filled a similar role to the one played by disclosures about Bain Capital, the private equity firm founded by Mitt Romney, during the last presidential campaign. It had been common knowledge that private equity firms had found ways to have most of the money earned by partners taxed at low capital gains tax rates, through what is known as carried interest. What came out last year was that some had found a way to treat all of their compensation that way.

Senator Levin, and the ranking Republican on the subcommittee, John McCain, tried to make the point, again and again, about how unfair the current system is to domestic companies, which cannot hide profits overseas, and to ordinary taxpayers, whose income is derived from salaries and investments that are automatically reported to the Internal Revenue Service.

“The general American public should not have to make up the balance as corporations avoid paying billions in U.S. taxes,” Senator McCain said.

But no other Republican senator seemed interested in that analysis. They praised Apple for avoiding taxes, saying that benefited its shareholders. Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, a physician, suggested it would “probably be malpractice” for a chief financial officer not to do everything possible to minimize the corporate tax bill.

If that is the standard, perhaps Senator Paul, instead of apologizing to Apple for the fact that the hearing was being held, should have joined in what he called the “vilification” of the company, but for an entirely different reason. As Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, testified, there is a whole range of tactics Apple has chosen not to use.

“Apple does not hold money on a Caribbean Island, does not have a bank account in the Cayman Islands, and does not move any taxable revenue from sales to U.S. customers to other jurisdictions in order to avoid U.S. taxation,” he said.

I asked Jeffrey M. Kadet, who spent a career with large accounting firms helping companies to minimize their international tax payments — working in places like China, Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore and Russia — and now teaches tax law at the University of Washington, to review the subcommittee’s report on Apple.

“Apple’s basic structure and planning described in the memorandum appears to be appropriate corporate tax planning in today’s environment and is consistent with what I review with my students in class,” he said in an e-mail. “The company appears to be almost conservative in its approach of not trying to move any portion of profits on sales to U.S. customers into its overseas structure as some other groups have done.”

One such company, as the Senate subcommittee documented last year, is Apple’s archrival, Microsoft.

What Apple did was transfer rights to its intellectual property to a subsidiary that was incorporated in Ireland — and therefore not subject to immediate United States taxation — but managed in California. Under Irish law, that freed the subsidiary from Irish taxation.

How is that “almost conservative”? The Irish subsidiary has rights to the company’s patents and trademarks in Asia, Africa and Europe, but not in North or South America. Apple kept those rights in its United States operation. It thus appears to pay more United States taxes than it could have.

If you look at taxes as Senator McCain seems to do, one person finding a way around taxes means the rest of us have to pay more. After all, the government must raise enough money to meet its obligations. But that is not the way a lot of Republicans look at it now. They have denounced taxes for so long that some of them seem to view those who manage to legally avoid paying taxes as heroes. Some of them also seem to think that the government they help to run is evil and that depriving it of revenue is therefore a good thing.

In theory, under the current law, American multinationals will pay American taxes on all profits — less whatever foreign taxes they paid — when they bring the profits home. That is known as “deferred” taxation. But they try to avoid doing that, and hope they can persuade the government to let them pay a minimal tax on such repatriated profits, rather than the full rate.

Mr. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, endorsed that idea in his testimony. Asked what the rate should be, he replied, “To incent a huge number of companies” to bring back money, the new rate “would have to be a single-digit number.”

In other words, he took for granted that paying American taxes was voluntary for multinationals.

Everyone seems to agree that corporate income taxes need to be reformed and that a base rate well below the current 35 percent should be part of that. But beyond that, there is widespread disagreement. Multinational corporations have been campaigning for a “territorial” tax system, in which the United States would tax only profits generated in this country.

Doing that without finding a way to close down the loopholes that allow companies to move taxes around would simply ratify the current situation, with the difference that companies would no longer face the possibility of paying American taxes when they brought the money home.

And as the hearing made clear, at least to those who studied the documents, closing those loopholes may be impossible under the current system. Companies can have one subsidiary pay any price they want to another subsidiary, so long as it is reasonably close to what an arm’s-length negotiation would produce. The I.R.S. is overmatched when it tries to challenge such pricing, particularly because there are often no comparable deals struck by companies that are not affiliates.

It would be nice if the leading developed countries could agree to cooperate in the taxing of multinationals, and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development is working on a report with ideas for how that could be accomplished. Don’t hold your breath.

If that is not going to happen, the United States could simply end the deferral system and put in some kind of minimum tax based on global profits. If an American company paid less than, say, 15 percent, in total taxes, then it would owe the difference to Uncle Sam immediately, whether or not it brought the profits home.

To get anything done, Congress will have to agree that Senator McCain’s way of looking at taxes is correct, and accept that giving a tax break to one person or company must mean forcing others to pay more than they otherwise would.
586 2013-05-24 Fed officials are aware of the confusion that lies in store and have emphasized that any changes are still a ways off and likely to be carried out slowly. The president of the St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank, James Bullard, said in a speech in London on Thursday that even after the central bank begins to slow monetary stimulus, policy makers could step in again if the economy seems to falter.

The nerves of at least some American investors were calmed by the end of Thursday. After starting the day down more than 1 percent, the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index recovered to finish the day down 0.3 percent, or 4.84 points, at 1,650.51. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 0.1 percent, or 12.67 points, to close at 15,294.50. The Nasdaq composite index fell 3.88 points, or 0.1 percent, to 3,459.42. In the market for United States government bonds, the price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury rose 6/32, to 97 20/32, and the yield fell to 2.02 percent from 2.04 late on Wednesday.

Other stock markets were hit harder. In Tokyo, the benchmark Nikkei index suffered a 7.3 percent rout. Leading indexes were down about 2.1 percent in Germany, France and Britain.

Speculation that the Fed will slow its monthly purchases of government bonds has been growing for months. Investors have known that the central bank’s efforts could not continue forever, and many asset managers have begun to prepare their portfolios for the day when the Fed pulls back.

Mr. Front’s firm has sold all of its long-term bonds to reduce exposure to any future changes in interest rates, and it no longer holds any Treasury bonds. In a more optimistic vein, the firm has been shifting money into riskier stocks on the assumption that rising interest rates will be accompanied by growing economies around the world.

Before this week, even many close Fed watchers assumed that any change would not come before the end of the year. But Mr. Bernanke’s comments on Wednesday led many strategists to bump up their forecasts a few months to September.

“This might be closer than we thought,” said John Bellows, a former Treasury Department official who now works at Western Asset.

When the Fed does shift gears, Mr. Bernanke has indicated, the process will be gradual and will begin with a slow tapering of bond purchases. Even that will commence only if the labor market grows stronger and unemployment falls further.

The economic data coming out of the United States on Thursday showed slight signs of improvement. The number of people who filed for unemployment benefits last week was 340,000, lower than analysts had expected and lower than the week before. And the number of new homes sold rose more than expected, to the highest level since 2010.

The housing market has been one of the biggest beneficiaries of the Fed’s purchases of government and mortgage-backed bonds. When the Fed slows the purchase of those bonds, other investors may become less eager to buy the bonds, and mortgage rates could rise for prospective homeowners, exerting a new drag on the housing market.

The way that investors respond to the Fed’s changing policy will determine how the economy is affected. That will be hard to predict even for the smart minds at the Fed, said William O’Donnell, the head of Treasury bond strategy at RBS Securities.

“We’ve supported the Fed’s actions for a long time,” Mr. O’Donnell said. “But we’ve long harbored fears that the exit is likely to be messy with lots of unintended consequences.”

The harshest critics of the Fed are worried that a change in policy could pop what some believe to be an artificially inflated bubble in stock prices. But even many investors who expect further volatility do not expect any significant reversal in the big market rally of the last few years.

Peter C. Andersen, a portfolio manager at Congress Asset Management, has been buying growth-oriented stocks in preparation for another rise in the stock market. He noted that the Fed was likely to let interest rates rise only if the economy was improving, which would in turn help American stocks. Mr. Anderson added that the Fed was giving markets plenty of notice of even small changes in policy.

“They’ve been exceptionally good at communicating their intentions,” Mr. Anderson said.

Whatever the uncertainty in the United States, the picture is even murkier overseas. The Japanese government, which has been trying to follow the Fed’s lead in stimulating its own economy, faced a setback on Thursday in the plummet of the Nikkei. Shares in Tokyo fluctuated widely Friday, jumping over 500 points, or 3.5 percent, in the first 10 minutes of trading, then in the afternoon falling 3.5 percent from the previous day’s finish, before closing up 0.9 percent.

Thursday’s drop was a sharp reversal for a stock market that has been one of the world’s best performers this year, thanks to the energizing effect of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s economic shock therapy.

There was disagreement about what had caused the dive. The Fed took some of the blame, as did the release of data on China’s manufacturing sector. The China purchasing managers’ index, released by HSBC, fell to 49.6 points in May from 50.4 a month earlier, suggesting a slowdown in the Chinese economy, the world’s largest after the United States. A reading below 50 signals a contraction.

China’s slowing momentum has been, to some extent, deliberately engineered by the authorities in Beijing, who are trying to balance the pace of growth. Still, disappointments over the performance of China’s economy — the second largest in the world after that of the United States — remain liable to unsettle markets around the globe.
587 2013-05-24 The identity issue was once considered an identity crisis by French Federation officials, who, at different stages of the 1990s and 2000s, aggressively encouraged the print and electronic media covering the tournament to use Roland Garros and only Roland Garros.

But the official line is softer now.

“I’d say we have a more practical vision of things,” Caloni said. “It’s a bit like the Parisians. They still say they go to the Place de l’Étoile even though the name is really Place Charles de Gaulle now.

“We know that tomorrow we are not going to say, ‘Stop calling us the French Open, call us Roland Garros!’ to two, three, five or eight million British fans who are crazy about tennis and to even more Americans. It doesn’t work like that in this era. The time of marketing dictatorship, of worldwide campaigns is a bit démodé. We have Internet, Facebook. We can’t take people for fools. And if they have decided to call it the French Open, in a sense, we should say, ‘So much the better.”’

But actions, for the moment, speak louder than diplomacy, and the tournament is continuing to emphasize Roland Garros on multiple fronts.

There is no official Twitter feed labeled “French Open,” only @rolandgarros in English and @rolandgarrosFR in French.

The official tournament Web site frenchopen.com was eliminated in 2008. What exists now is rolandgarros.com in English, French and Mandarin with, according to Caloni, about two-thirds of users opting for the English version.

He said frenchopen.com was terminated for legibility and self-defense. “The concrete reason for doing it was to avoid killing off ‘Roland Garros,”’ Caloni said.

Nonetheless, a few key strokes shows who is winning the numbers game. A search for “Roland Garros” this week on the French version of Google delivered 24.6 million results. A search for “French Open” delivered 1.25 billion.

But if English trumps French on the Internet, there are still small victories. If you search for “French Open” on Google, the first result that appears is a link to rolandgarros.com.

“That’s because we did a big job with the key words for the search engines,” Caloni said. “Two or three years ago, when we typed ‘French Open’ we sometimes got golf or other things even in a boutique in Nice or Cannes that sells men’s clothing. It was a bit of a mess.”

The rub is that Roland Garros, the French fighter pilot for whom the stadium is named, was not much interested in playing or watching tennis. He was a rugby player, one who was killed when his plane was shot down in 1918 near the end of World War I. Friends later requested that the tennis stadium be named for him when it was built to stage the 1928 Davis Cup final between the United States and France.

The French Open did not become open — accessible to professionals — until 1968. Until then it was known in English as the French Championships, which is much closer to its formal French name: Les Internationaux de France de Tennis.

The French preference for Roland Garros as an alternative name for the tournament happened gradually, according to Christophe Fagniez, a general director of the French Tennis Federation. But it accelerated in the 1990s as the event, under the leadership of the longtime federation president Philippe Chatrier, embarked on ambitious expansion and the promotion of the Roland Garros product line.

Chatrier, a former tennis journalist, was particularly eager to emphasize the link with tennis history and the French players René Lacoste, Henri Cochet, Jean Borotra and Jacques Brugnon, who were known as the Four Musketeers and who were behind the French tennis boom that led to the stadium’s construction in 1928.

“At first, we did not have a marketing approach; it was above all a sports event” Fagniez said.

Caloni said the dual identity of the tournament is not without a price. For now, he said, there is no such thing as a licensed product line labeled French Open, which means that fans in, for example, North America, Australia, Britain and British-influenced India have a dearth of merchandise bearing the tournament name they favor.

Caloni said that was costing the French Open market share in the United States compared with the other three Grand Slam tournaments: the Australian Open, Wimbledon and the U.S. Open.

But Caloni said the French federation was examining the possibility of starting a French Open line that would complement rather than compete with the Roland Garros line and probably be targeted at high-end consumers with the focus on luxury.

“The American market alone justifies it, but if we do it just for that I think it’s a bad thing,” Caloni said. “If we launch a French Open line, we should sell it also all over the world, and it should be different than what exists already.”

Meanwhile, for foreign visitors a choice remains to be made back at Roland Garros Stadium (that name, at least, all cultures can agree on).

“I use Roland Garros and French Open interchangeably on air,” said Chris Fowler, one of the lead tennis announcers for the American network ESPN.

Fowler does this despite ESPN labeling its coverage primarily as French Open coverage (it uses the round Roland Garros logo, too).

“I like the cultural context attached to the event’s official name,” Fowler said. “And I respect aviators.”
588 2013-05-24 The member of Parliament arrested on Thursday, Tian Chua, is Mr. Anwar’s deputy in a multicultural party that is challenging the dominance of the single-race United Malays National Organization.

Mr. Chua, who won re-election to Parliament May 5, posted on Twitter as he was being arrested Thursday, “No dictators could ever repress the rise of people’s power.” He said a police officer told him that he was being charged with sedition.

The two other people arrested are Haris Ibrahim, who leads an antigovernment group, and Tamrin Ghafar, the son of a former deputy prime minister who is a member of an Islamic party that is allied with Mr. Anwar. In addition, Adam Adli, the student activist, was charged with sedition on Thursday and released.

The Malaysian government, which has begun numerous crackdowns against dissidents during its decades in power, issued a statement late Thursday calling the arrests “a matter for the police.”

“The detentions came after the police received numerous reports against the defendants by members of the public,” the statement said. “In such circumstances the police are required to investigate and are following due and proper process.”

Malaysia’s prime minister, Najib Razak, who is under pressure within his party after the narrow victory, has vowed to undo some of the authoritarian legacy of his predecessors. The government has lifted a ban that prevented students from participating in politics, and it has said it will not use a law that allows detention without trial.

Mr. Najib announced in July that he would repeal the sedition law, which dates to British colonial days, but it remains on the books.

Open to broad interpretation, the sedition act calls for sentences of up to three years in prison and makes it illegal to bring “into hatred or contempt or to excite disaffection against the administration of justice in Malaysia.”

It can also apply to someone who promotes “feelings of ill will and hostility between different races or classes of the population of Malaysia.”
589 2013-05-24 China’s slowing momentum has been long in the making and is, to some extent, deliberately engineered by the authorities in Beijing, who are trying to bring about a more gradual but more balanced pace of growth. Still, disappointments over the performance of China’s economy – the second-largest in the world after that of the United States – remain liable to unsettle markets not just in Asia but around the globe.

High hopes that the bold economic policies of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan will succeed have prompted a huge rally in stocks since November. The Japanese market is still up nearly 40 percent since the start of the year.

Akira Amari, Japan’s economy minister, sought to calm nerves after the market closed Thursday. “The Japanese economy is staging a sound recovery, and there is no need for panic,” he said, according to the Nikkei business daily. The plunge “is not exceedingly large, and stock prices in China, where the shock originated, have not fallen so much either,” he added.

“The stock market’s rise has so far been largely driven by expectations of an economic turnaround, but we’ve yet to see Mr. Abe’s policies really gain traction,” said Kiyoshi Yoshimoto, chief senior economist at the Japan Research Institute in Tokyo. “That means even small shocks, like lower-than-expected numbers out of China or some volatility in bond markets, can trigger a big but temporary response.”

The sell-off Thursday came in spite of economic news from Europe that was, if not good, at least better than many expected. The Markit Economics euro zone purchasing managers’ index for the manufacturing sector rose to 47.8 from 46.7, while the services index rose to 47.5 from 47.0. While a number below 50 indicates continued contraction, the improvement suggests the economy may be getting nearer to its nadir, setting up conditions for a rebound in the second half.

In Hong Kong, Stephen Corry, chief investment strategist at LGT, agreed that a combination of negative news helped spur the sell-off, including the disappointing data from China and signs that the Fed may begin to scale back its stimulus efforts. But the Japanese market had rallied more than 14 percent this month alone, he added, and “was probably due a breather.”

Analysts have broadly welcomed Mr. Abe’s efforts to breathe life into the Japanese economy through a three-pronged approach of major fiscal spending, a promise to pursue structural reforms and a monetary policy that has effectively flooded the economy with cheap money through purchases of government bonds, commercial debt and other assets.

One result has been a weakening of the yen, whose 17 percent drop against the dollar since the start of this year has helped lift the earnings prospects of many Japanese exporters. Data released in the past few weeks have shown that the economy has begun to pick up speed.

Taking many market observers by surprise, however, bond yields have risen in recent days, fanning worries about a rising interest rate burden for the government. The yield on the 10-year Japanese government bond briefly spiked above 1 percent Thursday before dropping back to 0.9 percent. The move spooked investors, helping produce the fall in the stock markets, said Stephen Davies, chief executive of Javelin Wealth Management in Singapore.

Japan is vulnerable to rising borrowing costs because of its high public debt, which is twice the size of its economy. Bonds are also the main financial assets held by banks, pension funds and insurance companies, making a surge in debt yields perilous. Given the indebtedness of the Japanese government, there are worries about the impact that this could have if sustained,” Mr. Davies said. “It is too early to say whether it will be sustained, so we should not read too much into one day’s extreme move in the markets.”

Mr. Yoshimoto of the Japan Research Institute also said the sharp market moves Thursday had not changed the overall longer-term picture for recovery in Japan. That could change if Mr. Abe fails to follow through on his promises of economic reforms, he said, “but for now, there’s no need to become overly pessimistic about Japanese shares.”
590 2013-05-25 Six recommended matches to catch on Day 1 of the French Open....
591 2013-05-25 Arjen Robben scored the go-ahead goal in the final minutes of Saturday’s Champions League final to lift Bayern Munich over Dortmund at Wembley Stadium in London....
592 2013-05-25 An Apple-1 computer, made in 1976 and originally priced at $666, sold for a record $671,400 at an auction in Germany....
593 2013-05-25 Rory McIlroy and the two-time defending champion Luke Donald missed the cut in the BMW PGA Championship in Virginia Water, England. Francesco Molinari leads by a stroke.

■ The Colonial leader, Matt Kuchar, who was at 10-under par, was among 54 players still on the course when play was suspended at Hogan’s Alley in Fort Worth because of an impending storm.

■ Heather Bowie Young made birdies on half of the 12 holes that were played for a six-under 39 and a one-shot lead in the rain-besieged Bahamas L.P.G.A. Classic on Paradise Island.

■ Russ Cochran and Kenny Perry shot five-under 66s to share the second-round lead in the Senior P.G.A. Championship in St. Louis.

■ Annie Park shot a one-under 71 in Athens, Ga., to top the individual standings and help Southern California win its third N.C.A.A. women’s title.
594 2013-05-25 Juan Monaco will face Jarkko Nieminen in the final of the Power Horse Cup ATP tournament in Düsseldorf, Germany.

■ In other finals, Alizé Cornet will face Lucie Hradecka at the Strasbourg International, and Gaël Monfils will play Albert Montañés in the Nice Open.
595 2013-05-25 For the longtime Rangers season-ticket holders Phil and Joan Boening and their two sons, Justin and James, tensions were agonizingly high Thursday evening.

Their beloved Blueshirts, down by three games to none to the Boston Bruins in the Eastern Conference semifinals, needed to stave off elimination. Game 4 was scheduled to begin at 7 p.m. James Boening’s wedding ceremony was scheduled to begin at 6.

And so for a few hours, the New Leaf Restaurant at Fort Tryon Park in Manhattan became part wedding hall, part sports bar, with 64 guests waving Rangers rally towels as party favors, and the groom sporting a Henrik Lundqvist jersey over his suit.

“It was a great wedding, only capped off by the Rangers’ win,” Joan Boening said. “The party literally took off after that.”

Until the overtime goal by Chris Kreider, things were a bit nerve-racking. There were no televisions at the bar at New Leaf, so the game was streamed through a computer, and then connected to a television monitor, which went fuzzy at times because of the foul weather.
596 2013-05-25 While about a dozen states, including New York, allow undocumented immigrants to qualify for in-state tuition rates, only three — California, New Mexico and Texas — allow them to receive government tuition aid.

Proponents have argued that the bill would be an economic boon for the state because it would help undocumented immigrants improve their educational opportunities and prepare them better for the work force.

This week, the state comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli, estimated that the New York legislation would add less than $20 million in costs — less than 2 percent — to the largest state financial aid program, called the Tuition Assistance Program.

“A better-educated work force will benefit New York’s economy,” he said in a statement.

But opponents, mostly Republicans, said it was not appropriate to use public funds to assist illegal immigrants. Some opponents said illegal immigrants should not be able to obtain any tuition help, whether public or private.

“I do not support expanding eligibility for college scholarships to undocumented immigrants at the expense of immigrants who are lawfully in our country,” Senator Lee M. Zeldin, a Long Island Republican, said in a statement.

Assemblyman David DiPietro, a Republican from western New York, called the state Dream Act “preposterous.”

“Albany should not be doling out entitlement programs to lawbreakers, including those willfully violating federal laws,” he said in a statement. “The Dream Act is just another nightmare for New York State taxpayers.”

Supporters have been preparing a lobbying push, including door-to-door campaigning, phone calls and town-hall-style meetings in crucial districts, as well as visits to legislators’ offices.

“We’re at a critical moment,” said Javier H. Valdés, an executive director of Make the Road New York, an immigrants’ advocacy group that is part of a coalition spearheading the lobbying. “We need to ramp up the pressure.”

The supporters said the fate of the measure in the State Senate rests with two men: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and Senator Jeffrey D. Klein, who represents a district that straddles the Bronx and Westchester County and is leader of the breakaway Democratic caucus.

Asked at a news conference this week whether public funds should be used for educational grants for illegal immigrants, Mr. Cuomo said, “I support the Dream Act in concept.”

But Mr. Cuomo added that the issue had not been “a topic of conversation” — a reference to end-of-session negotiations with legislative leaders.

Earlier this year, Mr. Klein, seeking backing from reluctant legislators, suggested financing the Tuition Assistance Program with a licensing fee on proposed new casinos. But many of the bill’s proponents have rejected Mr. Klein’s idea, saying that tuition assistance measures should not be tied to a casino initiative that, even if successful, could take years to come to fruition.

Mr. Klein said that while he supported the bill in its current form, he was pushing for a piecemeal approach to the legislation to ensure that some of its elements were adopted. But proponents are resisting such a strategy.

“In an ideal world, if we had the vote for the bill, I’d support it,” Mr. Klein said in an interview. “But I’m also a realist and I want to get it done, and I think we need to do a compromise approach.”

He said he wanted to redraft the bill to remove the Tuition Assistance Program but keep the privately financed scholarship program, as well as access to the tuition savings plan. That change would give lawmakers more time to figure out an additional financing stream for the Tuition Assistance Program, he said.

“I hope we can come together and negotiate a bill that gives these young people a chance to get a college education,” Mr. Klein said.
597 2013-05-25 Along with the jubilation and backslapping, there were somber moments too. A Roman Catholic priest who gave an invocation in the Rockaways called the day “bittersweet,” adding that the community would celebrate only when the “beaches are made safe from future ‘Sandys.’ ” And some Rockaway residents mourned their 5.5-mile, mostly wooden Boardwalk, half of which was destroyed by the storm. A group of protesters held a banner during the ceremony that read: “The People of the Rockaways Want Our Boardwalk Rebuilt Now.”

For this summer, parks officials decided to create four “islands,” or concrete plazas, to provide access points to the beach. For miles in between, naked stanchions that once supported the Boardwalk are painful reminders of the storm. But parks officials vowed to rebuild the Boardwalk. “We want to figure out how to combine it with dunes and protections so it’s protective of the communities,” Ms. White said after the Rockaway event, before dashing off to Staten Island.

Throughout the spring, contractors were joined by 8,000 volunteers citywide. They hauled away sand from playgrounds, plucked wreckage from beaches and planted dune grasses. More than 40,000 cubic yards of debris — a dozen Olympic-sized swimming pools’ worth — were removed from beaches and parks. In addition to renovating concessions and building elevated lifeguard stations and bathrooms, contractors demolished structures, repaired the Boardwalk where it was salvageable and installed ramps to beaches.

With the Memorial Day deadline upon them, city officials set a new deadline of the Fourth of July for some jobs that had proven to be too complex. At Coney Island, for example, where the storm surge undermined the concrete pilings of the 1,040-foot Steeplechase Pier, workers were still trying to straighten out the listing support structures.

In the Rockaways, the concession stands at Beach 97th Street and Beach 106th Street, including Rockaway Taco and the Lobster Joint, most likely will not reopen before July 4. On Friday afternoon, electricians had yet to finish installing lamp posts at the 97th Street plaza, while at 106th Street, workers were smoothing freshly poured concrete in the rain.

Still, residents praised the city for making the beach repairs a priority. “They’ve been working around the clock,” said Evelyn Burgos, 40, a medical assistant from nearby Arverne.

Other residents faulted the city for putting $140 million in the Rockaways toward restoring recreational amenities for beachgoers, rather than for creating storm protections for residents. “It’s putting the cart before the horse,” said John Cori, one of the presidents of Friends of Rockaway Beach, an advocacy group that has pressed for rock jetties, dunes and a sea wall.

In a statement released Friday, the mayor’s office said that the city had allocated an additional $386 million for continuing restoration work citywide, including nearly five miles of boardwalk, shoreline protections and repairs to beaches, parks and playgrounds. In addition, the Army Corps of Engineers plans to begin major replenishment projects in the Rockaways and Coney Island this summer that will significantly broaden the beach beyond its pre-Hurricane Sandy size.

If only they could do something about the weather, which was predicted to be cold and rainy for the holiday weekend, with temperatures dipping into the 40s.
598 2013-05-25 The act purports to regulate potentially harmful chemicals in industrial and consumer goods, like plastic bottles and children’s pajamas. But the law is better known for its failures than for its successes. Of roughly 85,000 chemicals registered for use in the United States, only 200 have been tested by the Environmental Protection Agency and fewer than a dozen — including polychlorinated biphenyls, dioxin and hexavalent chromium — have been restricted

After a federal appeals court denied the E.P.A. the authority to issue new limits on asbestos in 1991, the agency all but abandoned its efforts to enforce the law, even as evidence of health problems from exposure to a range of chemicals in consumer products has piled up.

Mr. Lautenberg, who will not seek re-election next year, has tried since 2005 to update the law. But Republicans and the powerful American Chemistry Council, which represents chemical and consumer products giants like DuPont, Exxon Mobil, Dow Chemical and Procter & Gamble, have stymied every effort. The council, led by Calvin M. Dooley, a former moderate Democratic representative from California, has pushed its own outline of a bill, which has never won Democratic support.

Mr. Lautenberg was determined to make one last effort at overhauling the chemical law, aides said. He introduced his bill again this year, with no Republican support. But a few weeks ago his staff began meeting with Mr. Vitter’s aides to see if a compromise could be fashioned.

What emerged was a bill that satisfied industry’s major concerns while allowing a number of Democrats, including Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten E. Gillibrand of New York and Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, to support it. Republican co-sponsors include Senators James M. Inhofe of Oklahoma, Marco Rubio of Florida and Susan Collins of Maine.

Some environmental and public health groups also signed on, although others have expressed reservations about provisions in the law or reject it outright.

Tellingly, Senator Barbara Boxer, the California Democrat who is chairwoman of the Environment and Public Works Committee, which has jurisdiction over the law, demurred. Ms. Boxer, who has supported Mr. Lautenberg’s previous bills, said this week that she would give the new proposal serious consideration but suggested that she had strong concerns about it. One of Ms. Boxer’s main considerations has always been whether any revision to the toxic substances law would pre-empt or undercut California’s stronger chemical safety laws.

The language on state pre-emption in the Lautenberg-Vitter proposal is ambiguous, allowing most state chemical safety measures to stand unless or until the E.P.A. takes action.

The bill would strengthen the current law, at least as enforced, by requiring safety evaluations for all chemicals, which would be labeled as either high or low priority based on the potential risk. New chemicals would have to be screened for safety, and the E.P.A. would gain the authority to prohibit or limit their use. The proposed measure would also require the E.P.A. to assess risks to vulnerable populations, but critics say this provision is weaker than in Mr. Lautenberg’s earlier bills.

Environmental and health groups gave the proposal measured praise. While calling the bipartisan bill a policy and political breakthrough, Richard Denison of the Environmental Defense Fund said it lacked enforceable deadlines and did not give the E.P.A. the authority it needed to protect infants, children and low-income communities exposed to high levels of toxic chemicals.

Two groups with a longstanding interest in chemical safety, the Natural Resources Defense Council and the Environmental Working Group, said the bill gave away too much to the chemical industry in exchange for modest improvements to the status quo. They said they could not support it as written.

“If you look at the bill Lautenberg was pushing last year, I don’t know if this is a retreat or a rout, but it’s somewhere in that range,” said Ken Cook, the president of the Environmental Working Group. “We will be much better off pushing for improvements at the state level than surrendering to the chemical industry’s preferences here and now.”

Mr. Cook said that under the proposed bill the E.P.A. would be required to analyze the costs and benefits of any proposed chemical regulation, a provision that he said would give an advantage to industry. He also said the bill would not assign priority status to chemicals that show up in the umbilical blood of newborns.

Mr. Dooley, of the chemical industry trade group, said that although he had some concerns about how the safety standards in the bill would be applied, he was “pretty comfortable with the balance that was struck.”

He said his group’s board decided in 2009 to try to find a compromise that would bring the law into the 21st century without jeopardizing the industry’s trade secrets or adding to its regulatory burdens. Only this year, he said, did the politics come together in Mr. Lautenberg’s impending retirement and desire for a legacy and Mr. Vitter’s ability to find Democrats like Mr. Manchin willing to support a bill acceptable to industry. “We’re delighted there’s a path forward, and we’re eager to capitalize on it,” Mr. Dooley said.
599 2013-05-25 As schools everywhere strive to improve the academic performance of their students, many have cut physical education and recess periods to leave more time for sedentary classroom instruction. A sensible new report from the Institute of Medicine, a unit of the National Academy of Sciences, shows how shortsighted this trend can be. It found that exercise can significantly improve children’s cognitive abilities and their academic performance, as well as their health.

Students who exercise have lower body fat, greater muscular strength, and better cardiovascular and mental health. While admitting that the studies are limited, a panel of experts assembled by the institute says that “a growing body of evidence” suggests children who are more active are better able to focus their attention, are quicker to perform simple tasks, and have better working memories and problem solving skills than less-active children. They also perform better on standardized academic tests.

Academic performance is influenced by factors like parental involvement and socioeconomic status, but the panel reported that active children tended to have stronger performance, especially in reading and mathematics. It believes that the benefits of exercise during the school day outweigh the benefits from increasing class time.

The report recommends that all students get at least 60 minutes a day of vigorous or moderate physical activity, equivalent to a brisk walk. Only about half of all school-age children meet this guideline, according to the panel. The way to increase exercise is to promote physical education classes, recess and classroom breaks during the school day; encouraging after-school sports and walking or biking to school when feasible would also help. Physical activity should be a core educational concern, not a dispensable option.
600 2013-05-25 PHOENIX — A federal judge ruled on Friday that Sheriff Joe Arpaio and his deputies had violated the constitutional rights of Latinos by targeting them during raids and traffic stops here and throughout Maricopa County.

With his ruling, Judge G. Murray Snow of United States District Court delivered the most decisive defeat so far to Sheriff Arpaio, who has come to symbolize Arizona’s strict approach to immigration enforcement by making it the leading mission for many of the 800 deputies under his command at the Maricopa County Sheriff’s Office.

At 142 pages, the decision is peppered with stinging criticism of the policies and practices espoused by Sheriff Arpaio, who Judge Snow said had turned much of his focus to arresting immigrants who were in the country illegally, in most cases civil violations, at the expense of fighting crimes.

He said the sheriff relied on racial profiling and illegal detentions to target Latinos, using their ethnicity as the main basis for suspecting they were in the country illegally. Many of the people targeted were American citizens or legal residents.

“In an immigration enforcement context,” Judge Snow ruled, the sheriff’s office “did not believe that it constituted racial profiling to consider race as one factor among others in making law enforcement decisions.” In fact, he said its plans and policies confirmed that, “in the context of immigration enforcement,” deputies “could consider race as one factor among others.”
601 2013-05-25 NextGen, a group founded by Tom Steyer, a California billionaire and environmental activist who strongly opposes the Keystone pipeline, is preparing to get involved, according to his spokesman, Chris Lehane. In a memo to supporters, Mr. Lehane wrote that NextGen will be a “politically disruptive force” in the campaign, using online advertising and “guerrilla marketing.”

Various Republican groups have said they were considering spending on Mr. Gomez’s behalf, but they are waiting to see whether he shows signs of being able to win in deep blue Massachusetts.

Mr. Markey appeared at an electrical workers’ union hall here on Friday to receive the endorsement of a fellow Democrat, Mayor Thomas M. Menino, whose machine can wield considerable clout in an election. The mayor praised Mr. Markey’s stance against assault weapons and his ability to bring federal research money back to the state.

“This race has now been given a jolt of electricity,” Mr. Markey declared.

Mr. Menino told reporters later that he would “turn out my troops, that’s all, like we always do,” for Mr. Markey, and predicted he would “win big” on election day, June 25, because he did not see much enthusiasm for Mr. Gomez.

He conceded that he did not see much enthusiasm for Mr. Markey either but said it was “building.”

In a brief scrum with reporters, Mr. Markey was pressed for why he had missed so many votes and for his reaction to being called “pond scum.” He said that he would not resort to name-calling himself and that Mr. Gomez was trying to distract from the issues, like an assault weapons ban, which Mr. Markey supports and Mr. Gomez opposes.

“This is a referendum on the Obama administration,” Mr. Markey said at one point, with little elaboration.

After Mr. Markey left, a group of six electricians, a couple of whom are out of work, said in an interview that they would vote for Mr. Markey but they expressed little enthusiasm for him. They said that jobs and the economy were the most important issues for them but that Mr. Markey had not mentioned either in his speech, in which he instead lavished praise on Mr. Menino and focused on the assault weapons ban.

“Did he blow you away with his speech?” asked one, who like the others did not want to be named because they were straying from the party line. “Guns are not our issue,” said another.

These electricians said they would nonetheless vote for Mr. Markey because he was a Democrat and Democrats support the Davis-Bacon Act, the Depression-era federal law that requires workers on public works projects to be paid the local prevailing wage. Decent wages, they said, were their bottom line.

One said he liked that Mr. Gomez had been a member of the Navy SEALs. “That says to me he has a work ethic, and he could do this job of senator at half speed,” he said. Still, he said he would not vote for him because Republicans are anti-labor.

None of them had heard the “pond scum” comment, but when told of it, said they thought worse of Mr. Gomez. Mr. Gomez had uttered it Thursday night after being asked about two of Mr. Markey’s campaign ads against him.

In the first, a Web ad, the Markey campaign showed a split screen. On one side was an image of Mr. Gomez, who was the spokesman last year for a group that maintained that President Obama had politicized the killing of Osama bin Laden; on the other side was footage of Bin Laden from a video used by that group.

In the second, a television spot, the Markey campaign said that Mr. Gomez was “against banning high-capacity magazines like the ones used in the Newtown school shooting.”

Mr. Gomez responded in speeches and in a campaign ad by mischaracterizing both Markey ads. He said that Mr. Markey had unfairly compared him to Bin Laden and that he had blamed him for the school shootings; neither Markey ad made such an assertion.

In an interview with National Public Radio, Mr. Gomez was asked about his response to the ads. “To put me next to Bin Laden?” he said. “A former SEAL. Maybe he doesn’t realize who actually killed Bin Laden. The SEALs did.”

Mr. Gomez added: “For him to be as dirty and low, pond scum, to like, put me up next to Bin Laden, he’s just got to be called what he is. It’s that simple.”

The long-distance sparring has been going on since the two won their respective party primaries on April 30. They will meet face to face in at least two debates, the first on June 5 and the second on June 18.
602 2013-05-25 The Turkish Parliament passed legislation on Friday to ban advertising of alcohol. The measure also bans the sale of alcoholic drinks between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m., except in tourist zones, and prohibits alcohol sales near mosques and schools. The measure requires presidential approval before it can be put into effect. The government says it is aimed at protecting young people from the harms of alcohol, but secularist opponents accuse the government of gradually imposing an Islamic agenda.
603 2013-05-25 The fast-food chain Fatburger, based in Santa Monica, Calif., said on Friday that it would sell its frozen beef patties in domestic Walmart stores. Its beef patties are in some stores now and will be introduced nationally in coming weeks. Fatburger, founded in 1952 and owned by the Fog Cutter Capital Group, has 150 locations globally. Half are in the United States, primarily on the West Coast. The patties will be sold in 3,100 of the country’s 4,000 Walmarts.
604 2013-05-25 WASHINGTON — When the State Department fields the first of 350 additional Marine security guards at high-risk embassies and consulates around the world later this year, the price tag will be steep: about $1.6 million per Marine.

Why so much?

It turns out that about $525 million of the $553 million that Congress approved this year to deploy more Marine guards — fulfilling a recommendation of the independent review panel that investigated the attacks last year on the diplomatic mission in Benghazi, Libya — is going toward building new command-and-control hubs in the posts and living quarters for the Marines.

The department plans to send 35 new Marine detachments, with about 10 Marines each, to diplomatic posts over the next few years. The first 90 are expected to arrive by the end of the year, officials said.

At each of the 35 missions receiving Marine guards, the department plans to spend about $15 million to build a command-and-control center, called a Post One, equipped with security cameras and communications equipment, from which guards serving around the clock can control access in and out of the embassy buildings.

The 1,200 Marine security guards now stationed in more than 130 countries live in a variety of locations depending on the embassy’s design and space. Some live on the diplomatic compound; others do not.
605 2013-05-25 In trying to understand the spate of advertising that is vulgar and controversial (“Trying to Be Hip and Edgy, Ads Become Offensive,” Business Day, May 11), you cite the desperation of marketers to appeal to younger consumers, and the desire to create advertising that stirs an Internet sensation and goes viral.

These are certainly two important factors. But as someone who has worked in creative advertising for 30 years, I would cite another, much more basic, reality.

The general coarsening of popular culture has essentially done away with traditional standards of propriety, decency, and taste among the ultrasmart twentysomethings who staff the creative departments of most top agencies.

For many of these young people, raised on everything from “South Park” to the Kardashians to the lyrics and antics of rapper Akon, the intellectual currency is irony, the humor is almost always depressingly satirical and often cruel, and the importance of shock takes precedence over real communication or empathy.

It isn’t surprising at all to me that the advertising messages they produce misfire, disappoint, hurt and offend.
606 2013-05-25 Pictures From the Week in Business
607 2013-05-25 In an era when far fewer records are kept on paper, spouses and children may not even know that some accounts exist. Think of savings accounts that are only online, or a rollover retirement account that hasn’t been touched in years.

“It’s not only something that needs to be addressed with an individual dying,” Chris Heilmann, chief fiduciary executive at U.S. Trust, said. “If an individual becomes incapacitated, people typically plan for someone to have a durable power of attorney so someone can step in and handle your affairs. But now you’re finding the attorney has to deal with your digital issues. They have to access your computer; they have to pay bills for you.”

Sharing the combination of letters or numbers that give access to a person’s most important financial details is turning out to be a lot harder than telling loved ones that everything they need to know is in a safe deposit box. What can people do?

There are many Web sites and tools that allow people to upload their accounts and passwords in so-called digital vaults. They promise security and a one-stop shop for disparate digital lives. But they often go unused — just as there are a lot of lawyers around but not everyone has an estate plan.

People need to record their account information and passwords just as they need to make an appointment to draw up a will. And that seems to be the problem.

Joel Feldman, a retired garment manufacturer, said he had an estate plan but he had been reluctant to write down all of his logins and passwords and give them to his son. He also does not use a financial adviser, who would know some of that information.

“It does concern me,” Mr. Feldman said. “I keep saying I’m going to make a CD of my bank statements and put it in my safe deposit box, but I don’t do it.”

He said he figured that his son could probably find everything on his computer.

One reason people say they put off drawing up a list is that passwords are constantly changing. But that doesn’t seem to be the reality for many in retirement now. Mr. Feldman said he has only two or three different passwords because he would forget more than that.

Kieran Clifford, a retired vice president for finance from Lucent, said the password to his Gmail account was recently stolen. By combing through past e-mails, the hacker found a Fidelity statement, got the account number, and e-mailed his broker at a separate firm to transfer $250,000 to a bank in Hong Kong. Everything had the same password — his initials and date of birth.

“The e-mail said I’m going out to a meeting and you won’t be able to contact me so go ahead and do the transfer,” Mr. Clifford said. Fortunately, his financial adviser called him before doing anything, and they now have an agreement that any move must be confirmed by phone.

Like many things, it sometimes takes a scare to get people to act. After the incident, Mr. Clifford, 65, said he wrote down his passwords and gave them to his daughter. What remains to be seen is how vigilant he will be in keeping his passwords different from each other and updating the list his daughter has.

For people who are not highly organized and pragmatic about their estate plans — and that is most people — it seems that short of a crisis they need a persistent adviser to push them. Mr. Heilmann said that when his firm reviewed traditional estate plans with clients it got them to draw up digital plans as well.

This is where wealthier people have a leg up: someone else to do the kind of boring data entry that few of us want to do.

Mr. Heilmann said people needed to think about five things to ensure that everything goes smoothly with their digital financial lives if they become incapacitated or die: they need to maintain a list of their digital information; send the information to someone they trust; make sure other people know who has the information; leave instructions for how everything should be handled; and note all of this in an estate plan and update it regularly.

While time-consuming, this advice is straightforward. But advisers said that for many who are considering these steps, another issue arises: a fear that someone else has access to their financial life.

Louise Gunderson, a managing director at UBS wealth management, said she encouraged clients to upload their information to a secure system that allowed whoever they designated to see the account information but not to move the funds.

“We come up with a solution, but it depends on who acts on it,” she said. “Some parents say, ‘I don’t want my kids to know anything.’”

For the less wealthy, whose children need to know everything to care for them, advisers warn the children not to use the passwords to log into accounts as their parents. Doug Lockwood, president of Hefty Wealth Partners, said that to have any legal standing — and to ensure that other relatives don’t accuse them of wrongdoing — caregivers needed to have a power of attorney while their parents were alive and to know the rules when they die.

“I get calls asking, ‘If I have online access, am I allowed to trade?’” he said. “I say, ‘Absolutely not.’ As the executor, you would be in violation of all kinds of rules.”

As for people who do not get around to organizing their digital accounts, Mr. Heilmann said it would cost heirs additional money, time and anguish.

“We may know this person is receiving certain statements digitally from financial providers,” he said. “Now the executor has to go to those institutions with a death certificate and certain court appointment papers. It’s not easy and it’s not fun.”

Mr. Ginsberg said a hard drive that crashed recently had financial data for his accounts and those of his 96-year-old aunt, whose affairs he manages. He said at first he could not remember her login information for an online-only savings account he had set up for her.

“I knew nothing about the account other than its URL,” he said. “I thought, what was I going to do?”

That highlights one warning that advisers give: Do not go totally paperless, however tempting it may be.

But even that scare was not enough to prompt Mr. Ginsberg to ask his partner and brother for their digital financial information. “I’m not really that comfortable saying ‘I want to have all your financial information in case you die,’” he said.

The alternative, of course, is to try to piece everything together after they’re gone.
608 2013-05-26 BEAUCHEMIN--Helene A.,93, of Purdy's, NY formerly of Manhattan died Wednesday, May 22, 2013. Helene was born July 30, 1919 in The Bronx, NY. She is the daughter of Charles and Anne (Murray) Beauchemin. A graduate of Ursuline Academy and the Colleg...
609 2013-05-26 The tournament is still early, meaning upsets could be in the offing....
610 2013-05-26 Ashley Ellen Windle and Andrew Lowell Gurman are to be married Sunday by Cantor Lisa Shapanka Arbisser at the Foundry in Long Island City, Queens.

The bride, 31, is a violinist with the Muse String Quartet and also teaches violin at the Thurnauer School of Music at the Kaplen J.C.C. on the Palisades in Tenafly, N.J. She graduated from the Peabody Conservatory of Johns Hopkins and received a master’s in music from the Manhattan School of Music.

She is a daughter of Dr. Victoria E. Clyne, a primary-care physician, and Dr. Brian H. Windle, a plastic surgeon, who live in Kirkland, Wash.

Mr. Gurman, 37, is a managing director at Michael Lord & Company, a Manhattan firm that recruits lawyers. He graduated summa cum laude from Yale and received a law degree from Harvard.

He is the son of Ina and Laurence Gurman of Howell, N.J. The groom’s mother teaches Spanish at the Ranney School in Tinton Falls, N.J. His father is a principal research analyst at the New Jersey Office of Legislative Services in Trenton.
611 2013-05-26 Emily Anne Boylan and Robert Nicholas Gorsline were married Saturday at Holy Trinity Greek Orthodox Church in New Rochelle, N.Y. The Very Rev. Nicholas G. Anctil, a Greek Orthodox priest, performed the ceremony.

Mrs. Gorsline, 28, is the director of the office of research and media analysis for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in New York. She graduated from Boston University.

She is a daughter of Elizabeth S. Boylan and Robert J. Boylan of Larchmont, N.Y. The bride’s father is a microbiology professor at the College of Dentistry at New York University. Her mother is a program director at the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation in New York, which distributes grants for research and education in science, technology, engineering, mathematics and economics.

Mr. Gorsline, 29, is an owner of Tequila Sunrise, a restaurant in Larchmont. He graduated from Quinnipiac University in Hamden, Conn.

He is a son of Robert B. Gorsline of Bradenton, Fla., and the late Evangeline Poulos Gorsline, who lived in Pelham, N.Y. The groom’s father retired as the managing director of systems and operations for electronic banking at Citibank in New York.
612 2013-05-26 UNCASVILLE, Conn. — Kara Lawson scored 23 points, and Tina Charles added 19 points and 13 rebounds to help the Connecticut Sun beat the Liberty, 81-69, on Saturday night in the W.N.B.A. season opener for both teams.

The game marked the return of Bill Laimbeer and Anne Donovan to the pro sidelines. Laimbeer was coaching his first game since 2009, when he left the Detroit Shock four games into the season to pursue opportunities in the N.B.A. Donovan spent the past three seasons coaching Seton Hall after leaving the Liberty in 2010.

Donovan took over a talented Sun squad that made it to the Eastern Conference finals last season before losing to Indiana. The Sun let their longtime coach Mike Thibault go after the season.

With the game tied, 50-50, midway through the third quarter, the Sun took over, scoring the next 9 points. Kalana Greene and Lawson hit back-to-back 3-pointers, and Kelsey Griffin had a putback that made it 58-50.

The Sun led by 65-56 after three quarters. The Liberty got within 67-63, but consecutive 3-pointers by Allison Hightower and Renee Montgomery made it a 10-point game with four minutes left.
613 2013-05-26 “It’s going to be a lot of trouble,” said Hasan Askari-Rizvi, a Pakistani academic and defense analyst. “If the insurgency increases in Afghanistan, it will spill into Pakistan’s tribal areas, where the will become very confident.”

For 12 years, the United States’ security-driven policy has shaped power, politics and militancy in Pakistan.

After 2001, Gen. , who came to power in a military coup, established himself as a steadfast ally of the West; it underwrote his authoritarian rule, which lasted until 2008. The military received almost $17 billion in American military aid, and transfers of American military hardware, solidifying its position as the dominant arm of the state.

That relationship has also fostered resentment, and some Pakistani leaders welcome an American disengagement.

They blame America’s muscular presence — expressed through troops in Afghanistan and espionage and drone operations in Pakistan — for an Islamist surge that has killed tens of thousands of Pakistanis, and they argue that it has been a recruiting tool for militant groups like the Pakistani Taliban.

“Less American involvement is good, not bad,” said Hina Rabbani Khar, who served as foreign minister in the last government, and who said she warmly welcomed the tone of Mr. Obama’s speech on Thursday. “Drones help us lose the war. And the ideological space for these terrorists is the supposed U.S. occupation of Afghanistan. Once that excuse is not there, these people will have to face the music.”

America’s dogged pursuit of fugitives linked to Al Qaeda — first in Pakistan’s cities, later in the tribal belt along the Afghan border — led to a two-faced policy toward Islamist militancy. Pakistani officials secretly accepted, and in some cases encouraged, the American drone program, while condemning it in public as a violation of sovereignty.

Similarly, under pressure from Washington, Pakistan helped the C.I.A. arrest some jihadists, while it quietly sheltered other armed militant groups, like the Afghan Taliban and , who were seen as furthering Pakistani interests in Afghanistan and .

The American presence also created a giant blind spot in Pakistan’s political psyche: with so much focus on American operations, Pakistani leaders used the United States as a scapegoat to avoid tackling some homegrown problems. Lurid tales of American espionage and other skulduggery abounded in the news media, promoted by politicians and mullahs but also fanned by real-life controversies like the shooting of two Pakistanis by the C.I.A. contractor Raymond Davis in January 2011.

Now that calculus is shifting for Pakistani policy makers. From now on, they will be less able to rely on the cloak-and-dagger workings of the drone program to have it both ways. Indeed, many fear a replay of the early 1990s when, after the departure of Soviet troops from Afghanistan, the United States withdrew abruptly, leaving behind a cadre of fired-up Islamist fighters, and then imposed sanctions on Pakistan for its program.

Behind the bellicose speech, there is a complex dependency on both sides. While Pakistan’s powerful generals have grown to resent the United States, they also lean on American military aid as a steady source of income in an economy so shaky it may soon require a bailout from the . The generals also rely on transfers of American military hardware to keep their fleet of F-16 fighters in the air.

General Musharraf, the former president, recently admitted that he had secretly authorized American drone strikes in the tribal belt in the early days of the campaign, from 2004. Four years later, Pakistani officials quietly helped the United States assassinate , the leader of the Pakistani Taliban, in a missile attack.

“I don’t care if they do it as long as they get the right people,” , then prime minister, told American officials in 2008, according to an American cable published by in 2010.

Among the wider Pakistani public, though, the drones stoked anger, particularly over the issue of civilian casualties — a factor acknowledged by Mr. Obama last week. At the same time, the C.I.A.’s success in assassinating senior Qaeda figures in the tribal region reduced the number of available targets.

Recently, as concern over drones mounted in the United States, the number of strikes in Pakistan dropped sharply, from about 130 at their peak in 2010, to just 12 so far this year. Civilian deaths also fell sharply, as the United States cut back on so-called signature strikes against clusters of militant suspects, which had caused the most casualties.

Now, Mr. Obama announced Thursday, American drones will attack only militants who pose an imminent threat to the United States, virtually ruling out strikes against the Pakistani Taliban, whose stated goal is the creation of an Islamist caliphate in Pakistan.

Still, the shift signaled good news for , the prime minister-designate, who has vowed to make Pakistan less dependent on the United States. A scaled-back drone campaign will, at the very least, be one less issue to argue over.

It will, however, continue to exist, even if greatly diminished.

“This doesn’t change much for Pakistan,” insists Ahmed Rashid, author of several books on militancy in the region. “The fact that the campaign will remain under the C.I.A., surrounded in secrecy, is quite depressing for Pakistanis.”

The central factor now, experts say, is the American withdrawal from Afghanistan next year. The United States will seek a smooth exit from the conflict; Pakistan will seek to retain influence in its western neighbor, while ensuring the flow of money and military assistance from the West.

As ever, the relationship is shaped more by threats than possibilities, a stark contrast with Washington’s trade-based relations with Pakistan’s traditional rival, India.

Still, few doubt that America will remain deeply involved in Pakistan, a country with a growing population of more than 180 million people, a network of seemingly indefatigable jihadi groups and a stockpile of over 100 nuclear warheads.

The question now is how Washington will pursue those enemies, and what level of cooperation it will enjoy from its Pakistani allies. “The Pakistanis look to the U.S. for financial and other support; the Americans are pursuing senior Al Qaeda,” said Shamila N. Chaudhary, a former Obama administration official, now with the Eurasia Group, a Washington-based risk consultancy.

“Even after 2014, that mutual dependency will not go away,” she said.
614 2013-05-26 The prime minister’s wallflower personality has come to define India on the world stage. When Chinese troops camped out for weeks recently on mountainous territory claimed by India, Mr. Singh’s muted response infuriated opposition politicians. And as the world’s great powers — the United States, China and Russia — have sought closer ties with India in recent years, Mr. Singh has either quietly rebuffed them or left them wanting more.

Troubled by corruption scandals, Mr. Singh’s Indian National Congress Party and its coalition partners in the government must face voters no later than next year. Their great hope is that a lackluster economy will rebound by then to provide enough of a lift to overshadow the coalition’s missteps.

The most damaging controversy concerns the corrupt allocation of licenses to mine coal. Mr. Singh was the coal minister when the licenses were given out, so his role is central. But the country’s leading corruption investigator revealed this month that Mr. Singh’s office had demanded changes to what was supposed to be an independent inquiry into the scandal.

Mr. Singh’s personal integrity, a signature asset in a country awash in political corruption, was suddenly in doubt. Members of his own party began calling for his resignation, albeit in anonymous remarks. Even allies who still believe in his honesty say that he is failing.

“In the Congress Party, people generally think that he is honest,” a senior member of the party said in a recent interview, speaking on the condition of anonymity so that he could discuss internal party affairs. “But they think, ‘What is the point of this honesty?’ It must be reflected in the quality of administration.”

Opposition politicians demanded the resignation of the law minister and, because of a separate bribery inquiry, the railways minister as well. And they renewed calls for Mr. Singh to resign as well. In the past, India’s governing coalition has blithely brushed aside such demands. But after repeated criticism by commentators for a failure to act, Sonia Gandhi, the president of the Congress Party, met with Mr. Singh on May 10, and the resignations of the two ministers were announced the same day.

That meeting demonstrated once again the odd dynamic at the top of India’s government. Mr. Singh holds administrative power; Mrs. Gandhi holds political power. Does Mr. Singh run the government or does Mrs. Gandhi? It is a question that has been asked again and again for nearly a decade, but it is one that neither Mr. Singh nor Mrs. Gandhi has chosen to answer convincingly. Even insiders say they have trouble explaining the relationship between the two, and a top party official recently said publicly that having two power centers had not worked well.

The two leaders sought this week to dispel rumors of a rift between them by publicly praising each another. “There are no differences between the prime minister and me,” Mrs. Gandhi said Wednesday. “There is collective leadership.”

Few analysts interviewed were persuaded. “It’s taken an excessively long time for commentators to recognize how thoroughly incompetent as a prime minister Manmohan Singh is and how politically weak he has always been,” said Ramachandra Guha, a historian and analyst.

The government’s two-headed power structure has resulted in a confusing mix of policies. Over the past nine years, India’s government has built a vast infrastructure of welfare programs to feed and employ the rural poor and give them access to private hospitals — programs thought to result from Mrs. Gandhi’s socialist tendencies. But the government has also sought to attract foreign investment by opening protected sectors of the economy like retail and airlines to foreign competition — policies thought to result from Mr. Singh’s economic realism.

“Sonia and Manmohan have long been at odds on basic issues, and that has resulted in policies and politics that are at best confused and at worst contradictory,” said Sanjaya Baru, a former spokesman for the prime minister.

One of the few bright spots for the governing coalition is that its main political opposition, the Bharatiya Janata Party, is in disarray. It was trounced this month in elections in a southern state, Karnataka, and a crucial ally in Bihar State has threatened to end its alliance. Its most prominent leader is a man reviled by many Muslims for having failed to prevent bloody riots in 2002.

So despite its many setbacks and worsening poll numbers, the governing coalition could win again next year. Some commentators have even suggested that Mr. Singh may serve a third term as prime minister, in part because Rahul Gandhi, Mrs. Gandhi’s son, does not seem to want the job.

Pankaj Pachauri, the prime minister’s spokesman, said the government’s main problem was that neither Mr. Singh nor Mrs. Gandhi liked to brag, so few were aware of the government’s accomplishments. As a result, the government this month began a $3 million advertising campaign focusing on its achievements and recently released statistics showing major gains in income and life expectancy and decreases in infant and maternal mortality.

“The gift of this prime minister to this country is five years of extra life for everyone,” Mr. Pachauri said. “And that’s why Dr. Singh and Mrs. Gandhi have full confidence in each other.”
615 2013-05-26 Prosecutors argued that the two ran a large, covert network of paramilitary squads, trained and paid for by Belgrade’s Ministry of Interior. If the judges agree, the verdicts could provide the crucial link legally tying many war crimes in Bosnia and Croatia to the Serbian state.

The defendants deny the charges, and say the prosecution has failed to prove wrongdoing on their parts.

In the court of world opinion, Serbia has long been accused of instigating the wars that accompanied the breakup of Yugoslavia. Yet after almost two decades of trials at the tribunal in The Hague, involving close to 120 people, no officials of the Belgrade government are serving a sentence over atrocities in Bosnia or Croatia.

Mr. Milosevic, considered the wars’ main architect, faced a battery of charges, but he died in a tribunal cell in 2006 shortly before the end of his trial.

His chief of staff, Gen. Momcilo Perisic, the most senior military officer during the second half of the war, was convicted and sentenced to 27 years for aiding and abetting war crimes in Bosnia and Croatia, but the verdict was overturned on appeal.

The appeals judges did not dispute Serbia’s wartime role as laid out in the trial: a continuous supply of weapons, money, fuel, police officers and military personnel to its allies in Bosnia and Croatia. But the majority, led by Theodor Meron, the American presiding judge, said there was no evidence that General Perisic intended those supplies to be used for crimes, rather than for legitimate war efforts.

Since then, experts have sided widely with the Chinese judge, Liu Daqun, who wrote in a sharp dissent that there was no doubt that General Perisic’s actions facilitated the large-scale crimes in Bosnia and that “given the magnitude, critical importance and continued nature” of the support, his acts were “a prime example” of aiding and abetting. Judge Liu said the majority had shifted the standard for aiding and abetting to the point of undermining its very purpose, namely to make sure that people who facilitated “the most grievous crimes” could not evade responsibility. The Bosnian war took 100,000 lives.

The tribunal has sentenced 68 people, and 26 cases are continuing. The majority of convictions are of ethnic Serbs from Bosnia or Croatia, not Serbia.

Prosecutors say that the current trial, whatever the outcome, has further bolstered the body of evidence linking the Belgrade government with atrocities in Bosnia and Croatia. Prosecutors have introduced newly obtained records from Serbian secret police archives, which were redacted in open court. The redacted portions include details about the paramilitary recruits and their per diem payments. Payments to a group called the Red Berets were signed by Mr. Simatovic.

The secret records were provided by Belgrade, and prosecutors said that they showed that these groups — with names like Arkan’s Tigers, the Scorpions, the Gray Wolves and the White Eagles — were not informal bands of criminals or spontaneous patriots but well-trained, well-equipped and well-paid men in uniforms, directed by the secret police led by Mr. Stanisic and Mr. Simatovic.

Electronic intercepts and witnesses showed that both men often participated in planning operations or were in the field in Bosnia and Croatia. They reported directly to Mr. Milosevic, the prosecution said. “They ran a huge covert operation, which has now been opened up,” said a lawyer close to the case.

Prosecutors also played radio and telephone intercepts and brought insider witnesses to demonstrate how the paramilitaries were used during the bloodiest part of the wars in 1991 and 1992. The groups would be called up to supplement the military, or to do some of the dirtier work, the prosecution said, like attacking villagers, burning down homes and going after the elderly, women and children, which the military would be more reluctant to do.

Former members of the units have appeared during the trial behind closed doors as protected witnesses. Others used pseudonyms and electronically distorted voices. One witness described how in 1995, as Bosnian Serb soldiers were deserting in large numbers, about 100 Tigers were called up for special operations around the time when the military seized the town of Srebrenica and killed more than 7,000 Bosnian Muslim men. Even two months after the fall of Srebrenica, more than 300 Tigers were deployed for mop-up operations, killing 13 Bosnian captives on one day in Trnovo, and 65 men the next day in Sanski Most, slitting their throats or using guns.

A witness who worked at Arkan’s office said the number of active Tigers varied according to need and the group received close to $2 million for its special operations during 1995.

The fighters were paid on a per diem basis with freshly printed bills of Serbian money sent by the Serbian Interior Ministry, the witness said at an earlier trial.

One witness recalled paramilitary fighters talking about an operation they found particularly nasty because they had to kill the Muslim villagers while they were praying in a mosque.

The prosecution is seeking life sentences for both Mr. Stanisic and Mr. Simatovic.

Defense lawyers said the prosecution had failed to provide adequate proof of their clients’ wrongdoing and called the evidence “too unreliable and too scanty when it comes to key issues.”

They said that the prosecutors had painted a picture of secret operations that was “straight out of Hollywood.” Instead they commended Mr. Stanisic and Mr. Simatovic as men who intervened to control extremists.

Mr. Stanisic’s lawyer has cited his client’s help in bringing about the release of United Nations personnel held hostage in Bosnia. He said that his client traveled through the region as Mr. Milosevic’s envoy and that he was a “calm diplomat” who kept his cool “in the madness of war.”
616 2013-05-26 “We need to protect everything that helps Paris to be a worldwide city,” said Anne Hidalgo, the first deputy mayor of Paris. “So we need to help the tournament develop. We need to make the urban planning changes that are necessary for the French Open to be able to expand.”

The renovation of Roland Garros has drawn opposition from the start. The federation voted in 2011 to keep the French Opech there and alter the existing site rather than move the tournament.

Located at the western edge of Paris, Roland Garros is the smallest of the four Grand Slam sites, and the renovation would add 13,000 square feet for the public. Much of the expansion would take place in the botanical garden, where a new court — the third largest on the site — would open in 2017 and be surrounded by greenhouses on all four sides.

Cozy Court 1, known as the bullring, would be demolished and replaced with three acres of green space.

Wimbledon and the Australian Open have retractable covers on their largest courts, but the French Open and the United States Open do not. A roof at Roland Garros would provide protection from Paris’s frequent spring showers and allow the French Open to schedule night sessions, as the Australian Open and United States Open do.

“We don’t want to finish very late in the night,” Ysern said with a smile. “We are not going to do like our American friends with the night sessions starting late and sometimes never ending. But we do indeed want to have a dedicated night session.”

WILLIAMSES TO PLAY TOGETHER Serena and Venus Williams are teaming up at the French Open for the first time in three years.

The sisters received a doubles wild card from the tournament on Saturday, allowing them to play in that event after having skipped it in 2011 and 2012.

It is only the fourth time they will be a pair at Roland Garros. They won the French Open doubles title in 1999, beating Martina Hingis and Anna Kournikova in the final, and again in 2010. They lost in the third round in 2009.

The Williams sisters own 13 Grand Slam trophies from women’s doubles to go along with the 15 won by Serena and 7 by Venus in singles.
617 2013-05-26 The Grand Prix was nine months removed from a beautiful night in London last August when Rudisha ran the greatest individual race of the Olympics.

Crossing the line in 1:40.91, Rudisha set a world record and became the first to run the 800 under 1:41. He had no help from a pacesetter and no patience for a slow, tactical race. Elegant and powerful at 6 feet 3 inches, he kept his head straight, his stride impossibly long, his arms pumping at his side. He drew away and won a race in which seven of the eight competitors ran their personal best.

O’Connell was not in the Olympic Stadium to watch. He has habitually avoided the Olympics and the world championships, unimpressed with the clamor of the biggest international meets. Instead, he watched the London Games from his living room on the grounds of St. Patrick’s.

“For somebody who has worked with David for a number of years, it was easy to say I expected it,” O’Connell said. “But I was anxious about the gold medal. It’s a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. I was thinking, If he doesn’t get it now, when will he ever get it?”

Then the record time flashed on television, and pride mixed with incredulity.

“I just sat there and said, Am I seeing what I’m seeing?” O’Connell said. “Is there a mistake?’”

This year, the goal for Rudisha, 24, is to win at the world championships in August in Moscow, not to better his world record, O’Connell said. On Friday, Rudisha said he thought he was eventually capable of running 1:40.5.

At least on Saturday, Rudisha had his coach on hand to lend support and tactical guidance. With all the post-Olympic celebrations and awards, he got a late start on training, skipping preseason workouts in Australia. He had run one 800 this season before Saturday, a victorious 1:43.87 in Doha, Qatar, the world’s leading time this year.

“It has taken a little while to get his focus,” O’Connell said, explaining why he traveled to New York and will go with Rudisha to the Prefontaine Classic next weekend in Eugene, Ore. “I was anxious to see how his training and performance were going.”

The two first met in 2004. Rudisha, a Masai, was 13 and O’Connell saw him run a 200-meter race. A year later, O’Connell again spotted Rudisha while he ran the 400 meters in less than 50 seconds as part of a decathlon. His father, Daniel Rudisha, had won a silver medal with Kenya’s 4x400-meter relay at the 1968 Mexico City Olympics. Intrigued, O’Connell invited the younger Rudisha to join his training group in Iten, which sits above 7,500 feet in Kenya’s western highlands.

Three decades earlier, when O’Connell had first arrived in Kenya, the country boycotted the 1976 Montreal Games and the 1980 Moscow Games. A generation of athletes was essentially lost, but this allowed O’Connell to learn about running at his own pace, developing his own methods. He is said to have opened the first training camp in Kenya, one for girls. Now there are more than 100 such camps. Hundreds run on the red dirt roads around Iten in the morning.

Communication with the outside world was limited in those early days, so O’Connell learned to coach in part by speaking to athletes, gauging their recovery from certain workouts. One of his athletes, Peter Rono, won the 1,500 meters at the 1988 Seoul Olympics. The steeplechasers Matthew Birir, Reuben Kosgei and Brimin Kipruto won Olympic gold between 1992 and 2008. And Rudisha followed in 2012.

“Never in my wildest dreams did I think 37 or 38 years ago that I would be offering advice and people would listen to me,” O’Connell said. “I was just trying to get kids to do constructive things and be healthy.”

At St. Patrick’s, a boarding school, Rudisha idolized Wilson Kipketer, a Kenyan who had been coached by O’Connell and who set a world record in the 800 while running for Denmark. Later, Rudisha watched video of Kipketer on the Internet, learning the rhythmic aspects of a searing event that demands speed and endurance.

“One time I will achieve what he achieved,” Rudisha recalled telling himself.

His training, as described by O’Connell, involved a cross section of workouts at altitude: Pilates, yoga, repeats of 400 meters in a relaxed 54 seconds, crisp repeats of 200 meters in 23 or 24 seconds and 300 meters in 36 or 37 seconds, hill workouts and 10-kilometer runs at a pace just under three and a half minutes per kilometer.

There is only one problem. At St. Patrick’s, it became a tradition to plant a tree each time an athlete won a world championship, set a world record or took Olympic gold. But the copse of trees became crowded, O’Connell said, so Rudisha did not get one for London.

“We’re down to shrubs,” O’Connell said.
618 2013-05-26 Of course, she notes, we can replicate the information that companies collect and collate about us with third-party apps or other workarounds, but we shouldn’t have to resort to redundancy. Professor Sweeney says: “We would like to see people have access to all of the data that they produce.”

In fact, a few companies are challenging the norm of corporate data hoarding by actually sharing some information with the customers who generate it — and offering tools to put it to use. It’s a small but provocative trend in the United States, where only a handful of industries, like health care and , are required by federal law to provide people with access to their records.

Last year, San Diego Gas and Electric, a utility, introduced an online energy management program in which customers can view their electricity use in monthly, daily or hourly increments. There is even a practical benefit: customers can earn credits by reducing energy consumption during peak hours.

About one-quarter of the company’s 1.2 million residential customers have tried the program, says Caroline Winn, the company’s vice president for customer services. Newer features, she says, allow customers to download their own use files. Or they can choose to give permission for the utility to share their records directly with a handful of apps that can analyze the data and suggest ways to reduce energy consumption.

“The customer owns their data,” Ms. Winn says. “Whether they want to use our app or somebody else’s, we want to make sure we are facilitating that.”

People might feel more comfortable about being subject to data-mining if companies did a better job of demonstrating a direct benefit to them, argues , director of the Future of Privacy Forum, an industry financed research organization in . One model for this, he says, is the product recommendation engine at Amazon, which lets customers view their purchase histories and excise one-off items they bought for friends that might not represent their own personal tastes.

“They are providing transparency as a feature,” Mr. Polonetsky says. “I can tweak their algorithm in a way that is mutually useful.” (Amazon is one of the sponsors of his organization.)

Even so, companies rarely offer customers more than a cropped snapshot of their activities.

Right now, for example, fitness enthusiasts who use monitors, calorie calculators and movement sensors typically can’t collate the data for a unified view of their wellness, Doc Searls, a technology writer who has experienced this kind of problem himself, told me. If people could easily integrate their data, he wrote in a recent blog post, they might be able to correlate weight loss to a particular workout routine or diet. Those companies that do allow customers to export their files and integrate their data elsewhere, he says, have a market advantage over companies that are data misers.

“Stock data, bank data, and bond data are all more valuable when they are looked at together,” says Mr. Searls, the author of “The Intention Economy: When Customers Take Charge.” “If I have a choice between apps and one of them shares the data that I can use more easily, I am going to choose that one.”

, for instance, recently introduced a “data economy” project, intended to encourage companies to think of consumers as participants in the information economy, and not just as data-harvesting opportunities. The venture includes a site called WeTheData.com, which looks at current obstacles to information sharing.

Ken Anderson, a senior research scientist at Intel Labs who oversees the project, compares corporate data-hoarding today to a faulty mind-set of the fast-food industry in the early 1980s. Back then, he says, fast-food chains thought that they should open outlets only at a good distance from their competitors. But when food courts in malls became popular, he says, those restaurant chains realized that they benefited from shared retail space.

“If you put it all in one place, you get more business,” says Mr. Anderson, a cultural anthropologist who studies how people interact with technology.

The same goes for consumer data. He envisions an online answer to food courts — an information smorgasbord where consumers could browse their own records. “We are trying to show companies the value of opening data up” he says, “and having them be more communal in nature.”
619 2013-05-26 For Nell Minow, who has spent the last 27 years researching and advocating policies that she says are aimed at improving corporate America’s behavior, it was a difficult week. “With corporate governance battles, you get used to tilting at windmills,” she said.

Beyond the Apple hearing, she pointed to another prominent event that could be viewed as a corporate governance setback. That was a vote on whether the jobs of chairman and C.E.O. should be held by the same person at a major company, JPMorgan Chase. Splitting the two jobs — under the theory that an independent chairman offers meaningful oversight over a C.E.O. — has been a trend. In 2002, only 25 percent of Standard & Poor’s 500 companies separated the two roles. In 2012, some 43 percent did, according to a survey by Spencer Stuart, the executive search firm.

But at JPMorgan, shareholders voted last week by a roughly two-to-one margin against splitting the jobs, both held by Jamie Dimon. Like Mr. Cook, Mr. Dimon is often said to be an extremely effective leader, and his personal popularity may have been an influence. Heavy lobbying and aggressive tactics by the company also helped in the vote, which in any case was only advisory. (Even if it had gone against Mr. Dimon, he wouldn’t have been required to heed it.)

It’s possible that another factor introduced voting bias. Seven of the 10 institutional investors who are JPMorgan’s largest shareholders are themselves run by C.E.O.’s who are also chairmen. That was reported by Bloomberg News, which found that the top 10 shareholders held 29.5 percent of JPMorgan’s stock.

A cozy sense of entitlement is a tendency that separating the jobs is intended to combat, Erik Gordon, a professor of law and business and the University of Michigan, said in an e-mail.

“If you ask C.E.O.’s who also are chairs of their board whether it is a good idea to let another C.E.O./chair do the same thing, the answer is obvious: it is a very good idea,” he said. “That’s what they’ve told their own boards. It is hard to change corporate governance when people who like things just as they are control the votes. It’s like asking members of Congress to vote in favor of giving up their privileges.”

DOES splitting the two jobs improve a corporation? Not necessarily. Mr. Dimon suggested before the polling that he might leave JPMorgan if the vote for job-splitting prevailed, a move that some shareholders said would hurt the company.

But instituting checks and balances is good policy in government, corporate and otherwise, said Robert A. G. Monks, a shareholder advocate. Having an independent chairman is “a prerequisite of good governance but it’s not a guarantee,” he said.

Apple has had independent chairmen for years. Still, Mr. Monks contended, while it has been a colossally creative and successful company, it’s also been “an irresponsible corporate citizen,” for, among other failings, “gaming the international system” to avoid paying taxes. And such tax revenue, he said, is “badly needed right here in the United States.”

At the hearing, Mr. Cook said, “We pay every penny we owe.” Mr. Monks said that while this may be true, Apple’s tax avoidance hurts the country.

Ms. Minow put the idea a bit differently. Corporate behavior can be lethal for the body politic, she said. As a modern corporation, she said, Apple is “designed to offload as many costs as possible, and to keep as many of its revenues as possible” and is thus an “externalizing machine in the same way that sharks are killing machines.”

In the JPMorgan vote, Mr. Monks said, he was heartened by large numbers of negative votes cast against members of the board’s risk committee, an action that may portend a shake-up. JPMorgan lost $6 billion in a derivatives trading debacle in London last year — a reminder, he said, of the financial system’s vulnerability to feckless risk-taking by giant banks.

“It will take relentless effort by shareholders and by the government to make corporations behave like good citizens,” he said. Like Ms. Minow, Mr. Monks is a co-founder of the Corporate Library, a governance research firm, and of its successor, GMI Ratings. He is also the author of a new book, “Citizens DisUnited: Passive Investors, Drone C.E.O.’s and the Corporate Capture of the American Dream.”

Along with the setbacks, Ms. Minow said, corporate democracy has won victories. Earlier this month, she said, Hess, the oil company, agreed under pressure to appoint three dissidents to its board and to separate the jobs of chairman and C.E.O. “Every so often,” she said, “if you tilt at windmills long enough, you’ll find that one of them falls over.”
620 2013-05-26 A new federal report shows that the nation’s prisons and jails have a long way to go before they comply with the Prison Rape Elimination Act. That 2003 law requires institutions receiving federal money to adopt a zero-tolerance policy on rape and to embrace rigorous prevention measures like those outlined last year by the Justice Department.

The report, released this month by the federal Bureau of Justice Statistics, makes clear that prisons and other correctional institutions are falling well short of the law’s requirement to address this kind of abuse. It names several institutions that have particularly high rates of inmate-on-inmate or staff-on-inmate assaults.

The data is based on surveys carried out between February 2011 and May 2012 at 233 state and federal prisons; 358 county jails; and 15 special confinement facilities operated by Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the military and correctional authorities on Indian reservations. Prisoners participated in the surveys by answering computer-based questionnaires. According to the report, an estimated 80,000 prison and county jail inmates experienced sexual abuse during the previous 12 months, roughly 4 percent of all prison inmates and 3.2 percent of jail inmates nationwide. High rates of victimization were found among inmates who were gay or lesbian, inmates who had been raped or sexually abused before incarceration, and inmates who suffered from mental illness.

Previous studies have found that juveniles housed in adult facilities were at greater risk of sexual assault than adults. In this study, however, 16- and 17-year-olds housed in adult jails and prisons did not report significantly higher rates of abuse.

Children’s advocates and some researchers dispute this finding, arguing that young people may have been less likely to be candid on a computer-based survey because they feared that the authorities might be monitoring their answers. Some critics have urged the Bureau of Justice Statistics to repeat the investigation using live interviewers from outside the corrections system.

The study found that some institutions had rates of sexual abuse at least twice the national average. It singled out more than 40 prisons and local jails. In addition, it cited two military facilities and a jail on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation in South Dakota.

Under the Prison Rape Elimination Act, a federal review panel at the Justice Department can summon the administrators who operate some of these facilities to hearings to explain their policies.
621 2013-05-26 The federal Energy Information Administration reported in March that at some point this year — maybe in the fall, maybe next month, maybe tomorrow — United States crude oil production will surpass imports for the first time since 1995. This is an important milestone. It does not mean that America has reached energy independence, not by a long shot. That is and will remain an elusive dream for a country that uses one-fifth of the world’s oil while possessing little more than one-fiftieth of its reserves.

What it represents, instead, are two remarkable developments: one, technological refinements that have allowed the oil industry to tap large and previously inaccessible deposits of oil and gas, mainly on private land in places like Texas and North Dakota; and two, a steady decline in oil consumption, driven in part by new automobile efficiency standards aimed at doubling the fuel economy of cars and light trucks.

You would not know any of this if you listened only to Doc Hastings, chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee, and his like-minded Republican colleagues in the House. To hear them tell it, domestic oil production has fallen off a cliff (when in fact it is at a 21-year high, despite cutbacks in the Gulf of Mexico following the BP oil spill) and the oil industry is in chains, paralyzed by conservationists and federal regulators who cling to environmental values, like the need to preserve a measure of wilderness for wildlife and humans alike.

Mr. Hastings and friends tried hard in the last Congress to undermine many basic environmental laws and open up huge swaths of America’s public estate, onshore and offshore, to drilling, including the coasts of Maine, California, Oregon and Washington (Mr. Hastings’s home state), as well as all the waters off Alaska. That they failed has not diminished their appetites. Last week, one of Mr. Hastings’s subcommittees held hearings on several bills that would destroy much of the balance between resource preservation and extraction that President Obama and Ken Salazar, former interior secretary, sought to achieve.

One bill, from Scott Tipton of Colorado, would essentially establish energy development — mainly of fossil fuels — as the primary use of the public lands. A second, from Doug Lamborn, also a Republican from Colorado, would overturn the Obama administration’s sensible reforms of the oil and gas leasing process by setting impossibly tight deadlines for drilling permits, discouraging citizen participation and lawsuits. The bill would also reinstitute a discredited Bush administration plan to extract oil from shale rock in the Rocky Mountains.

The third bill, from Mr. Hastings himself, would fast-track federal approval of drilling permits, roads and pipelines in Alaska’s National Petroleum Reserve, a 23-million-acre reserve rich in both wildlife and fossil fuels and long a source of contention between industry and conservationists. The Hastings bill would nullify Mr. Salazar’s carefully balanced compromise by giving oil development top priority.
622 2013-05-26 Mr. Ban talked with Mr. Kerry about his meetings with Russian officials in Moscow. Mr. Kerry is scheduled to meet with the Russian foreign minister in Paris on Monday to discuss the planning for the Geneva meeting.

As Mr. Kerry visits Africa, Nigeria is stepping up its fight against Islamist militants; France is preparing to hand over to an African force much of the responsibility for protecting Mali from Islamic fighters; and tensions between Sudan and South Sudan have flared.

President Goodluck Jonathan of Nigeria recently declared a state of emergency in the country’s northeast provinces and ordered air and ground assaults against Boko Haram, a militant group. But reports that Nigerian forces have carried out extrajudicial killings, including against civilians, have become a problem for the United States, which provides law enforcement assistance and has cooperated with Nigeria, a major oil supplier, on counterterrorism issues.

Earlier this month, Mr. Kerry, in a statement, noted “credible allegations” that Nigerian forces had been engaged in “gross human rights violations.”

Mr. Kerry returned to that theme on Saturday in a joint news conference with Ethiopia’s foreign minister, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. Asked about reports of human rights violations — there have been reports of large-scale civilian killings by the army and police in Nigeria — Mr. Kerry said the Nigerian government had acknowledged that abuses had occurred.

“They are working to try to control it,” he said. But revenge was not an adequate strategy, he said.

What is needed “is good governance,” Mr. Kerry said. “It’s ridding yourself of a terrorist organization so that you can establish a standard of law that people can respect. And that’s what needs to happen in Nigeria.”

Before meeting with the foreign minister of Sudan, Mr. Kerry noted that he planned to send a special envoy soon to work on reducing tensions between the countries.

The difficulties, he said, went beyond border disputes and involved the concerns of residents in the South Kordofan and Blue Nile States of Sudan who did not want to be compelled by the Sudanese government to live by strict Islamic rules.

“You have people who for a long time have felt that they want their secular governance and their identity respected,” Mr. Kerry said. “That’s the fundamental clash.”

The tensions, he added, had been exacerbated by the support rebels in Sudan had received from South Sudan.

Mr. Kerry was scheduled to meet with the Egyptian president, Mohamed Morsi, later on Saturday. At a March meeting in Cairo, Mr. Morsi promised to move ahead with negotiations with the International Monetary Fund, and Mr. Kerry announced that the United States would provide $250 million in assistance to Egypt. But concerns have mounted since that Egypt is not prepared to undertake serious economic overhauls.

The African Union, the organization that Mr. Kerry is in Ethiopia to celebrate, remains, half a century in, a work in progress. First molded by the Pan-African ideals of Kwame Nkrumah, who led Ghana in the 1950s and ’60s when it became the first African state to break its colonial bonds, the union, then known as the Organization for African Unity, emphasized African self-reliance and independence.

But those notions quickly curdled into a doctrine that led African leaders to believe that they were above reproach. Autocratic, corrupt leaders like Mobutu Sese Seko of Zaire, now known as the Democratic Republic of Congo; Idi Amin of Uganda; and Félix Houphouët-Boigny of Ivory Coast earned the organization the nickname “dictator’s club.”

In the 1990s, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya, who saw the body as a way to extend his influence on the continent, bankrolled its reorganization as the African Union. Colonel Qaddafi pushed the idea of transforming Africa, a collection of postcolonial fragments divided by borders that were drawn arbitrarily by Western powers, into a vast, unified state that could play a powerful role in global affairs.

In 2009, Colonel Qaddafi was chosen as the African Union’s chairman. His swearing-in ceremony looked like a coronation, and traditional African leaders hailed him as the “king of kings.”

Thabo Mbeki, the former South African president, also tried to exert influence on the African Union, leading the New Partnership for Africa’s Development, which he hoped would offer an alternative to Western-imposed aid and development plans. Its progress, like most African Union projects, has been mixed.

The African Union has increasingly taken a leading role in peacekeeping missions in some African conflicts.
623 2013-05-26 “Guys can no longer go to the bank and take out a home equity line or a second mortgage to buy that $50,000 chopper of their dreams,” said Mike Ulrich, a Yamaha engineer. “But they still want to ride. They just need something affordable.”

The Bolt is described as a back-to-basics bobber, a type of home-brew motorcycle whose origins date to the years after World War II. Returning servicemen, short of disposable income, sought to revive dormant prewar bikes by shortening — bobbing — the fenders and eliminating extraneous ornamentation.

“Short wheelbase, high tank, low seat and almost no chrome — it’s a timeless design in a modern package,” Mr. Ulrich said at the bike’s introduction in San Diego.

Detractors might dismiss the Bolt as a knockoff of the Harley-Davidson Sportster. But in most regards, whatever cards the Sportster has to play, the Bolt trumps.

The Sportster has an 883 cc V-twin to the Bolt’s 942, and while the Bolt’s overhead-cam, 4-valve V-twin is tuned for low- and midrange performance around town, it seemed plenty capable in a variety of conditions. It didn’t feel underpowered on the Interstate, as some bikes in this class do.

At 540 pounds, the Bolt weighs a significant 33 pounds less than the Sportster. No wonder the Bolt feels more maneuverable and responsive, though its limited suspension travel can make rides on rough roads a spine-jolting experience.

These no-frills, retro-look cruiser models are proving to be an enduring market segment, and the Bolt has an extra measure of appeal, I think, with its attractive price. Add in the functional touches like wave-type brake rotors, low-maintenance belt drive and a 27-inch seat height, and it seems that the Bolt’s arrival is well-timed.
624 2013-05-26 The Pathfinder has to chart multiple courses, as it tries to maintain its dirt-road roots while taking on three-row family duties....
625 2013-05-26 “What you see here you won’t find in a supermarket,” he said as we drank tea steps from a tub of kirmizi karades, small coral-pink shrimp in season only until June.

While Ahmet bought seafood for lunch, Rim and I shopped. Spring was in full bloom: thumb-size morels and globe artichokes hung by their stems over mounds of young favas and peas. There were bunches of mallow, cress, purslane, dandelion, nettles and chicory, and bundles of pencil-thin wild asparagus. A heady perfume hung over a row of wooden bins filled with strawberries. We tasted pine and flower honeys, and I bought half a dozen Marmaris pogaca, flaky rectangles filled with mild fresh cheese. It was an auspicious beginning to my quest.

After a 45-minute drive along a corkscrew road, I arrived at Dionysos, where Ahmet and his staff were readying lunch, a test run for the season’s start in three weeks. At a table set outside the kitchen we ate smoked mackerel pâté and early pink tomatoes dressed with purple basil and Dionysos’ own cold-pressed olive oil; kirmizi karades (the shrimp I’d spied at the market) in a light, bright tomato sauce; and sole fillets, rolled and skewered with bay leaves and lemon and grilled over wood. Almonds, another Aegean crop, flavored ice cream served with strawberries. “Not quite there yet,” Rim said of the strawberries, pushing her plate aside, though I finished mine.

The next day I backtracked toward Marmaris and turned south for Selimiye, a fishing hamlet curled around a glassy bay. After several passes I found Sardunya, a low-key restaurant (there is no signage) right on the water, with comfortable rooms set around a fruit tree-shaded garden behind. When I asked the owner, Muhammet Ozdenir, to whom I should credit the food, he replied, “I have friends in the kitchen; we all cook.”

At sunset I sat by the water and sampled a dozen meze. The most memorable featured vegetables I’d coveted in Marmaris: turp otu (wild radish leaves) blanched with vinegar; earthy chard; samphire cooked to retain its bite and dressed with lemon, crushed garlic and Mr. Ozdenir’s own olive oil; and sari kiz otu, a bitter green tamed by sweet caramelized onions. Grilled octopus straight off a neighbor’s boat, served simply in a pool of olive oil and dusted with dried thyme, was as yielding as butter.

Saturday brought the longest leg of my trip, but first I detoured to Datca, on an arid peninsula just north of Bozburun. After passing acres of almond groves, I found the Saturday market, where cagla, the tart, crispy green almonds that enjoy a sliver of a season, were sold next to bags of mature nuts and almond-stuffed oven-dried figs. I cobbled together a picnic — Bergama cheese, dense village bread, tomatoes and unsalted black olives — and hit the road for Urla, a one-street town with a cozy harbor on the Cesme peninsula, some 230 miles north.

In the morning I met Ahmet’s school friend Hasan Yamanlar for Urla’s fish auction, which happens every morning (weather permitting) beneath an octagonal canopy steps from the boats. Then I walked five minutes to what Ms. Senol had described as “one of the most inspiring markets” she’d ever seen. With only 30 or so stalls it nonetheless held surprises at every turn: green figs for marmalade, four varieties each of thyme and sea grass, young leaves of melengec (a tree in the pistachio family) and tangles of mixed wild leaves, shoots and herbs labeled “kavurmalik” (for sautéing) or “boreklik” (for borek, phyllo pastries). At the rear of the market a woman griddled gozleme, paper-thin flatbread filled with whey cheese and wispy wild fennel fronds.

More surprises awaited that night at Yengec restaurant on Urla’s harbor, popular for its tremendous meze selection. Trying all 102 was out of the question, so I picked a few: nettles “cooked” in isot pepper, wild fennel simply dressed with lemon, and kaya korugu, a succulent known in English as rock samphire, brined in verjus.

In ancient Tire, an inland town some 25 miles from Ephesus, my guides at the Tuesday market, said to be Turkey’s largest, were the Cakirs — father Lutfi and son Serkan — of Kaplan Dag Restoran. Twenty years ago Lutfi, an accomplished baker of breads and pastries, opened the restaurant on a hill above town and began serving local cuisine, which bears influences from Crete. As I followed him through the upper narrow lanes along which the market spread, vendors with 50-pound sacks of wild greens beckoned. After purchasing yogurt, cheese and square loaves of chickpea-yeasted bread, we stopped at the Cakirs’ butcher, who broke down two 25-pound lambs.

At Kaplan Dag I helped prep the sevketi bostan, a spiny thistle I’d become somewhat obsessed with after sightings at every market on my itinerary; it would be boiled, mixed with lamb and enriched with avgolemono, a broth of egg and lemon. At lunch the dish, which highlights the unique flavor of the thistle — it fell somewhere between artichoke and asparagus — complemented cold meze: rice-stuffed squash blossoms; a surprising salad of uncooked nettles mixed with chiles, tomato, whey cheese and dried mint; roasted small onions dressed with olive oil and sprinkled with dried thyme and piney melengec leaves. Tire kofte — minced beef molded to a skewer, grilled and then sautéed with tomatoes, crushed red pepper and plenty of butter — followed.

Dessert was milky fresh ricotta-like lor topped with sweet mulberry preserves. If I returned in the summer, Serkan said, I’d find a vendor at the Tuesday market selling cups of snow — supposedly collected from the top of a nearby mountain — drizzled with syrup made from the same fruit. I was already plotting my return.

IF YOU GO

Reservations are recommended on weekends and during the high season (May to October).

Dionysos Hotel (Kumlubuk; 90-252-476-7959; dionysoshotel.net). Restaurant reservations required. Daily prix fixe about 90 Turkish lira a person, $49 at 1.80 lira to the dollar, including wine.

Sardunya (Selimiye; 90-252-446-4003). Meal for two, without drinks, about 90 lira.

Yengec (Urla Iskele, Izmir; 90-232-752-1152; yengec-restaurant.com). Meal for two, without drinks, about 95 lira.

Kaplan Dag Restoran (Kaplan Village, Tire; 90-232-512-6652; kaplandag.com). Meal for two, without drinks, about 65 lira.
626 2013-05-26 A fellow Young British Artist, , saw the prices of his work plummet recently. How’s the market for yours? 

My work rarely comes up in secondary market, so it means that my prices stay low. But I’ll tell you about my contemporaries — if I sold every single thing in my whole show, it is still not as much as one painting of my male contemporaries.

Does this frustrate you? 

It depends. It’s the status quo. The only reason that a just sold for $10 million and not $40 million is because she’s a woman. is one of the highest-selling female artists, but compared to her male contemporary ? Men peak at their career between 40 and 50. Women, at 50, are on a plateau with their careers, but later they ascend. Twenty-five years ago you could just go and buy a for 10 or 15 grand. Now you can’t.

Many of the new works you’re showing at the Lehmann Maupin gallery now are your “Lonely Chair drawings,” self-portraits with your legs splayed, a recurring subject in your work. 

I wish I didn’t want to do splayed-leg pictures anymore, but I can’t help myself. When I was younger, it was more about the sexual action, whereas now it definitely isn’t. They’re not opening. They’re closing. This is about getting old and understanding the way of the world.

Old? You’re about to turn 50. Isn’t 50 the new 30 or something like that? 

Who’s saying that? When you’re 20 or 30, looking ahead, you see these benchmarks for relationships, career, ambition, sexuality, and they went off into infinity. When you get to 50, you look at what’s ahead of you, and there’s an end. It goes into a nothingness, a void.

This doesn’t sound like a welcome birthday. 

It’s a reality. I’m not dreading it. I’m just saying here it comes, and I better be prepared.

The piece that made you famous, “Everyone I Have Ever Slept With 1963-1995,” was a tent with names embroidered inside. Eventually, you resolved that you would no longer identify friends or family members in your work. Were these two things related? 

The tent got me into a bit of trouble. I never said that everyone had sex with me; maybe we slept on a plane or on a sofa. There were 102 names, and out of those 102, I only had sex with 32. The tent wasn’t about sex, the tent was about intimacy on all levels. Only the people who went into the tent realized that.
627 2013-05-26 Brilliantly done — the article uses the plight of the monk seal as a jumping-off point for pondering the relationship of our overpopulated and powerful species with the others on the planet. Jon Mooallem’s sensitivity to the human perspective, especially of native Hawaiians, is appropriately functional: if conservation policy makers deal with locals in a ham-handed fashion, they will fail to achieve their goals. TERRY STORCH, Albuquerque, posted on nytimes.com

Call me a dyed-in-the-wool Mooallemite, but the guy does a better job than almost anyone else at taking obscure and often amusing phenomena and spinning tales that ponder their deep meanings. . . . As his article unfolds, it becomes a thoughtful parable of Americans’ complicated relations with conservationists and the wildlife they protect: it seems self-evident to many people that more monk seals, like more bald eagles or sandhill cranes, are a good thing, but in the words of one Hawaiian fisherman, who sums up a common local perspective, they’re “troublemakers” — worthy, perhaps, of vigilante justice. DANIEL FROMSON, in the Weekend Reading column on newyorker.com

Animals compete for food, territory, partners and dominance. Sometimes it gets messy and lethal. Frankly, I don’t see a problem with Hawaiian fishermen dealing with a seal that threatens their livelihood even if someone else thinks that animal is adorable. FLAMEOFWRATH, Connecticut, posted on nytimes.com

Food trucks may be cool and romantic, but they come with a lot of unsavory baggage. They sit running their engines, emanating odors and exhaust fumes. They add to the congestion on our already-crowded streets. The lack of running water and toilets certainly creates a potential sanitation issue. I would posit they also contribute additional street garbage in the form of discarded or blown-away napkins and wrappers. It’s probably better from a policy perspective to encourage foodie entrepreneurs to open a brick-and-mortar shop and offer delivery than to use a truck. MARC SCHECHTER, New York, posted on nytimes.com

Adam Davidson is spot on. Our daughter goes to Portland State, and when we visit her, it’s refreshing to see how limited regulations mixed with a little common sense allows food trucks to flourish, providing healthy and interesting cuisine as well as much-needed jobs. The competition is fierce among the food trucks, which only heightens the quality and affordability of the food. BERT GILLESPIE, Alpharetta, Ga., posted on nytimes.com

HOW DOES SHONDA RHIMES KEEP MAKING HITS?

I think Shonda Rhimes’s work is great — outrageous, melodramatic, but great. This stuff is the very heart of popular entertainment, no matter how hard we try to pretend otherwise, and I love that the article pointed out that “Scandal” doesn’t do what other, supposedly more “highbrow” series do. It’s just more honest about the earthiness of its pleasures. MILLICENT VINCENT, La Grange, Ill., posted on nytimes.com
628 2013-05-26 The craft is in the detail, and the telling deployment of numbers: the 2.3 million pairs of eyeglasses manufactured to keep the United States Army clearsighted; the German snipers awarded 100 cigarettes for every 10 kills, and an Iron Cross and a wristwatch from Himmler for 50; the 3,500 percent expansion in the American armed forces, in a war that cost the United States the equivalent of $4 trillion.

At the start of America’s war, a fighting man had to have at least 12 of his original 32 teeth; by 1944 he could be sent into battle with none at all, just one eye, or deaf in one ear. He didn’t even need to have a trigger finger.

Atkinson, a former staff writer at The Washington Post, knows just when to release the touching, trenchant or horrifying fact. While Hemingway was gorging on Champagne and creamed spinach at the Paris Ritz, American liberators were simultaneously discovering the windowless torture chambers at a nearby German barracks, where some of the Nazis’ victims lived just long enough to leave testaments scrawled in pencil or charcoal on the walls: “Gaston Meaux, my time is up, leaves five children, may God have pity on them.” Or, more simply, “Revenge me.”

The narrative line can be confusing. We shift from one battlefront to another, and from one side to the other. Individuals appear and then vanish, never to be heard from again. But the deliberately pell-mell quality of the writing merely adds to the sensation of battles fought at full tilt. For this is what war is like: clear in hindsight, but bewildering and chaotic to those caught up in it.

War is traditionally depicted as tactics, moves on a chessboard, the collision of brute power and military technology. But war is also about character and personality, individuals making choices and decisions in the heat of battle, inspired, calamitous, unfortunate and plain lucky (the quality Napoleon most prized in his generals). The path to victory was anything but smooth: the “dissonance and puerile backbiting” between the Allies and among the generals was too often paid for in blood.

Characters are drawn in a few bold lines. Here is Field Marshal Walter Model, “Hitler’s fireman,” sent in to shore up the Führer’s crumbling Western Front: “a caustic, devout Lutheran with an adhesive memory, a taste for French red wine and a belief in the prodigal use of firing squads for shirkers.” Here is Gen. Bernard Montgomery, towering in his conceit, once described as “tense as a mousetrap,” convinced he “knew the way home,” and Gen. George S. Patton, that strutting, inspiring, foul-mouthed rooster, with his repellent love of battle: “Could anything be more magnificent? Compared to war, all other forms of human endeavor shrink to insignificance.”

Atkinson is less sure-footed in describing the fighting itself. There are only so many ways to describe men shooting, bombing or otherwise trying to kill one another. At times, his language strains to capture yet another high-explosive encounter: “torrid orange sheaves of flanking fire”; an attack that “slammed against the 30th Division front in scalding, scarlet gusts.” The accidental killing of Allied troops by their own side is described as “fratricide,” an unnecessarily emotive word for a horrible mistake common to all wars.

The overheated prose contrasts with the deliberate understatement of the men fighting and dying. “We shall have to send the soldiers in to this party seeing red,” Monty says on the eve of D-Day, employing a British euphemism for killing frenzy. “Do not worry if you do not survive the assault, as we have plenty of backup troops who will just go in over you,” Royal Navy commandos were told, as if, having failed to survive the assault, they might be worrying about anything at all.

When the D-Day invasion proves successful, the most one British officer can come up with is a diffident double negative: “We were not unpleased with ourselves.” Atkinson sees these soldiers, rightly, as heroes, paragons of an ancient warrior breed, “stalwart men, those stout hearts celebrated in song.” But that is not, with a few exceptions like Patton, how they saw themselves. Mostly, they wanted to get on with it and then return to their families. “If I could get home,” Dwight Eisenhower wrote his mother back in Kansas, “I could lie down on the front lawn and stay there for a week without moving.”

The Liberation Trilogy is a monumental achievement, about 2,500 pages in all, densely researched but supremely readable. Atkinson marshals a vast array of material with aplomb, never losing sight of the grander picture as the troops slog on. The German Army was crushed by a combination of logistical brilliance, firepower, raw courage and an American “economic juggernaut that produced much, much more of nearly everything than Germany could.” Churchill called America’s war effort a “prodigy of organization.” The same can be said of this book.

After all the noise and fury, it is the quiet moments that echo in the memory. In October 1945, Henry A. Wright, a widower, was waiting at the train station when the bodies of his three sons came home — Frank, killed on Christmas Eve in the Battle of the Bulge; Harold, dead of his wounds in a German P.O.W. camp; and Elton, killed in Germany just two weeks before the war ended. Their coffins were placed in the bedroom of the farmhouse near Springfield, Mo., where each had been born.

“Neighbors kept vigil overnight, carpeting the floor with roses, and in the morning they bore the brothers to Hilltop Cemetery for burial side by side by side beneath an iron sky.”
629 2013-05-26 London’s restaurant scene can seem awash with culinary redundancies. How many more ramen soup bars can the city really support? Do we really need another Peruvian restaurant with a “bespoke” pisco bar? So it’s a delight when clever culinary novelty hits town. To wit: Bubbledogs, a restaurant opened last August that revels in its Champagne selection, but substitutes hot dogs for caviar on its menu.

After a stint working together at Copenhagen’s much-celebrated Noma, Bubbledogs’ married owners, Sandia Chang and James Knappett, the chef, settled in London and collaborated on a simple concept: an unassuming Champagne bar with seating for 35 that serves only single-estate pours and a clutch of high-end hot dogs. Also on the menu are craft beers and icy, baroque cocktails, like the Snowy, a martini made with Death Door Gin and laced with Compass Box Peat Monster Scotch and a spray of absinthe, served in a chilled silver Champagne coupe.

The dining area is as roomy as a sea container, but much more handsome. A copper-clad bar stands out in a room with reclaimed oak floors and exposed brick. Also on the premises is Kitchen Table, run by the owners. Here, Mr. Knappett whips up a 10- to 15-course tasting menu of small plates like crispy chicken skin with rosemary mascarpone and bacon jam. But the main front room with its hot dogs and heart-choking sides is far more lively.

My American dining companion and I ordered the Sloppy Joe Dog. It was sinfully delicious: an airy bun held a long and lean pork hot dog drowned in cumin-perfumed chili, wilted onions and sharp Cheddar. To see a side like American-style tater tots on a London menu is like seeing a mirage: the English have their version, but they are dry and gluey, and shouldn’t really be placed in the same class. The ones at Bubbledogs were excellent.

We ordered flutes of Demarne-Frison Goustan Brut, a Champagne with the baritone fruitiness of guava and the intense mineral crispness of crushed seashells. The chill and effervescence of the Champagne were the perfect foil to our greasy meal — which, it turns out, is exactly the idea.

“You don’t need excessively fancy food to bring out the best of a good wine,” Ms. Chang said. “In fact, sometimes I believe the simpler and less affected, the better.”
630 2013-05-26 While psychologists can’t know exactly what goes on inside our heads, they have, through surveys and laboratory studies, come up with a set of traits that correlate well with conspiracy belief. In 2010, Swami and a co-author summarized this research in The Psychologist, a scientific journal. They found, perhaps surprisingly, that believers are more likely to be cynical about the world in general and politics in particular. Conspiracy theories also seem to be more compelling to those with low self-worth, especially with regard to their sense of agency in the world at large. Conspiracy theories appear to be a way of reacting to uncertainty and powerlessness.

Economic recessions, terrorist attacks and natural disasters are massive, looming threats, but we have little power over when they occur or how or what happens afterward. In these moments of powerlessness and uncertainty, a part of the brain called the amygdala kicks into action. Paul Whalen, a scientist at who studies the amygdala, says it doesn’t exactly do anything on its own. Instead, the amygdala jump-starts the rest of the brain into analytical overdrive — prompting repeated reassessments of information in an attempt to create a coherent and understandable narrative, to understand what just happened, what threats still exist and what should be done now. This may be a useful way to understand how, writ large, the brain’s capacity for generating new narratives after shocking events can contribute to so much paranoia in this country.

“If you know the truth and others don’t, that’s one way you can reassert feelings of having agency,” Swami says. It can be comforting to do your own research even if that research is flawed. It feels good to be the wise old goat in a flock of sheep.

Surprisingly, Swami’s work has also turned up a correlation between conspiracy theorizing and strong support of democratic principles. But this isn’t quite so strange if you consider the context. Kathryn Olmsted, a historian at the , says that conspiracy theories wouldn’t exist in a world in which real conspiracies don’t exist. And those conspiracies — Watergate or the Iran-contra Affair — often involve manipulating and circumventing the democratic process. Even people who believe that the Sandy Hook shooting was actually a drama staged by actors couch their arguments in concern for the preservation of the Second Amendment.

Our access to high-quality information has not, unfortunately, ushered in an age in which disagreements of this sort can easily be solved with a quick search. In fact, the Internet has made things worse. Confirmation bias — the tendency to pay more attention to evidence that supports what you already believe — is a well-documented and common human failing. People have been writing about it for centuries. In recent years, though, researchers have found that confirmation bias is not easy to overcome. You can’t just drown it in facts.

In 2006, the political scientists Brendan Nyhan and Jason Reifler identified a phenomenon called the “backfire effect.” They showed that efforts to debunk inaccurate political information can leave people more convinced that false information is true than they would have been otherwise. Nyhan isn’t sure why this happens, but it appears to be more prevalent when the bad information helps bolster a favored worldview or ideology.

In that way, Swami says, the Internet and other media have helped perpetuate paranoia. Not only does more exposure to these alternative narratives help engender belief in conspiracies, he says, but the Internet’s tendency toward tribalism helps reinforce misguided beliefs.

And that’s a problem. Because while believing helped plan the Sept. 11 attacks might make you feel in control, it doesn’t actually make you so. Earlier this year, Karen Douglas, a University of Kent psychologist, along with a student, published research in which they exposed people to conspiracy theories about climate change and the death of . Those who got information supporting the theories but not information debunking them were more likely to withdraw from participation in politics and were less likely to take action to reduce their carbon footprints.

Alex Jones, a syndicated radio host, can build fame as a conspiracy peddler; politicians can hint at conspiracies for votes and leverage; but if conspiracy theories are a tool the average person uses to reclaim his sense of agency and access to democracy, it’s an ineffective tool. It can even have dangerous health implications. For example, research has shown that African-Americans who believe is a weapon loosed on them by the government (remembering the abuses of the Tuskegee experiment) are less likely to practice protected sex. And if you believe that governments or corporations are hiding evidence that vaccines harm children, you’re less likely to have your children vaccinated. The result: pockets of and whooping-cough infections and a few deaths in places with low child-vaccination rates.

Psychologists aren’t sure whether powerlessness causes conspiracy theories or vice versa. Either way, the current scientific thinking suggests these beliefs are nothing more than an extreme form of cynicism, a turning away from politics and traditional media — which only perpetuates the problem.
631 2013-05-27 A failure to convert on a triple break point in the fifth set was the key moment in Tomas Berdych’s loss to Gael Monfils in the French Open Monday....
632 2013-05-27 Grigor Dimitrov, a 21-year-old Bulgarian, defeated Novak Djokovic in Madrid and took Rafael Nadal to three sets in Monte Carlo....
633 2013-05-27 Six matches, including Benoit Paire vs. Marcos Baghdatis, are worth following in early singles play at Roland Garros on Tuesday....
634 2013-05-27 The fourth and final installment in a brief history of the U.S. Open Cup soccer tournament....
635 2013-05-27 Senator John McCain, who has called for the Obama administration to intervene militarily in Syria, was the first American senator to meet with the rebel fighters....
636 2013-05-27 Dog bites account for a third of the payout dollars for homeowner’s liability insurance claims....
637 2013-05-27 “When we had the caution come out, that’s a whole different ballgame with a short run like that, and obviously the best car didn’t put tires on,” Harvick said. “And we were able to capitalize on that. I felt like when we came out second, everybody had done their job and they were all like 5-year-old kids looking to me for a snack. It was like: Don’t screw this up, bud.”

It was Harvick’s second victory of the year, in his last season with Richard Childress Racing before he moves to Stewart-Haas Racing next season.

Harvick was not among the dominant drivers for much of the race. Kahne, Matt Kenseth, Kyle Busch and Kurt Busch were the drivers to beat. Kenseth led for 112 laps but was burned by pit strategy and was later caught up in a wreck. Kyle Busch went out with a blown engine after running up front for 65 laps. He finished 38th.

“So frustrating to see it end on a short note like that,” said Kyle Busch, who won the Camping World Truck Series race here last weekend and the Nationwide Series race on Saturday.

Earlier in the race, Busch’s No. 18 Toyota had been severely damaged when the nylon rope that was used to move a TV camera that hovered above the frontstretch snapped near the first turn 122 laps into the race. The rope, which spanned about 2,425 feet and allowed the camera to move from just beyond Turn 4 almost to Turn 1, fell onto the track. As the racecars came around Turn 4, the cable whipped through the racecar of Kyle Busch, and then damaged the racecars of Mark Martin and Marcos Ambrose.

Even the drivers could not believe it.

“First time I drove by I said, Damn, my career is over,” said Harvick, who said his field of vision was covered by what looked like a black streak.

The next time by, he saw the cable, and the race was red-flagged shortly after that. It was stopped twice for a total of 27 minutes.

“A full investigation is planned and use of the camera is suspended indefinitely,” read a statement released by Fox Sports.

A track spokesman later said the three fans taken to hospitals were treated and released.

After that, what had been a relatively uneventful race got far more interesting with a series of wrecks in the second half. First, the defending Cup champion Brad Keselowski apologized to Danica Patrick after he caused a wreck that collected both cars with 81 laps to go. Even before the wreck, Patrick, who would have been a primary focus of the Indianapolis 500, was once again a nonfactor in a Cup race. Her rookie season, which began with a pole in the Daytona 500 and an eighth-place finish, has been mostly a struggle since then. She was 29th on Sunday night and is 30th in points this season.

Another crash occurred just a few laps later when Martin, Jeff Gordon and Aric Almirola crashed going into Turn 1 with 74 laps remaining. Seven cars in all were collected. That led to another red-flag stop — the third of the race — that lasted 9:13.

Kurt Busch, who was leading the race when the wreck occurred, had trouble restarting his car after the red flag. He had to be pushed by a wrecker to pit road and dropped back to 11th in the field. He finished third.

“I’m still shellshocked,” Busch said. “We picked up the lead then the battery went dead. We battled back. We had a good car. You gotta be perfect to win these things and I was close. We weren’t quite there.”

With 67 laps to go, there was yet another major crash, this one coming off Turn 4 and collecting the five-time Cup champion Jimmie Johnson along with Kenseth.

The final count: 11 cautions for 61 laps in a race that never seemed to end. Until Harvick outlasted the field and finally finished this most storied day of racing.
638 2013-05-27 From the “Most Bounced Around” to the “Least Understood,” N.B.A. team names are often baffling....
639 2013-05-27 “I expected more,” Henrik Lundqvist, the Rangers’ star goalie, said Saturday of the season, after the Bruins’ 3-1 clinching win. “I hoped for more.”

All the pieces seemed in place when General Manager Glen Sather traded Brandon Dubinsky and Artem Anisimov from the Rangers’ 2012 conference finalist team, along with defenseman Tim Erixon and a first-round draft pick, for Nash. Instead, the Rangers will pack their bags Monday, and the rebuilding will begin anew. These are the challenges Sather faces over the summer if he hopes to restore the Rangers to legitimate contender status. ■ Three linchpin players — Ryan McDonagh, Derek Stepan and Carl Hagelin — become restricted free agents July 1. Sather’s first priority is to sign them before they become unrestricted free agents — and the sooner the better.

All three are coming off entry-level deals, so they will command big raises. McDonagh, already recognized as one of the N.H.L.’s most dependable defensemen, made $1.3 million last season. Stepan, the team’s top scorer, plus-minus leader and No. 1 center in the regular season, made $875,000. Hagelin, a wing and the team’s fastest player, also made $875,000.

Re-signing them will add perhaps as much as $12 million to the annual payroll, with the Rangers already at $51.5 million for next season, according to Capgeek.com, a site with N.H.L. salary cap information. Under the new collective bargaining agreement, the salary cap will drop next season to $64.3 million from the current $70.2 million.

■ Tortorella won a Stanley Cup with Richards as Tampa Bay’s playoff most valuable player, but he relegated Richards to the fourth line in these playoffs, then sent him to the sidelines — an ignominious fate for a center with seven years to go on his nine-year, $60 million contract.

It seems certain that Sather will use the Rangers’ one remaining amnesty buyout on Richards. That will save the Rangers $6.67 million per season under the shrinking salary cap.

■ Ryane Clowe, the tough, grinding forward acquired near the trade deadline, becomes an unrestricted free agent on July 1. He was exactly the kind of player the Rangers needed, but concussion problems kept him out of the lineup. He earned $3.6 million this season and may be too expensive to re-sign.

Mats Zuccarello, a useful third-liner and shootout specialist, made $700,000 last season. He becomes an unrestricted free agent. Re-signing him is not believed to be a priority, so Sather may let him ride out one last season in New York. The spare defensemen Roman Hamrlik and Matt Gilroy become unrestricted free agents and will probably not be re-signed. Steve Eminger, another spare defenseman who also becomes an unrestricted free agent, is more highly valued and will be re-signed if he asks for a modest raise above his current $750,000.

■ Tortorella, the volatile coach who finished his fourth season behind the bench, is most likely a prolonged regular-season slump or another disappointing finish from being fired. It will be interesting to see if he is named the United States coach for the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics.

■ Sather, 69, has been the team’s president and general manager since 2000. He had surgery for prostate cancer in March. Will he stick around for another year, or tap Jeff Gorton, the assistant general manager, to take his place?
640 2013-05-27 Mr. Lemon was a civil rights activist whose objection to a 1968 Pennsylvania law gave rise to a watershed 1971 Supreme Court decision....
641 2013-05-27 Yet the project was hobbled by problems and delays, and the company’s idea failed to gain traction, with fewer than 1,000 cars on the road in Israel and another few hundred in Denmark.

Mr. Cohen said on Sunday that the vision and the model had been right, but that the pace of market penetration had not lived up to expectations. Without a large injection of cash, he said, Better Place was unable to continue its operations.

“This is a very sad day for all of us,” Mr. Cohen added. “The company brought with it a vision that swept along many people here and around the world.”

About $850 million in private capital has been invested in the company, which has 350 employees in Israel. The largest shareholder, with about 30 percent of the stock, was the Israel Corporation, a large holding company that focuses on chemicals, energy, shipping and transportation. The corporation’s decision not to invest further in Better Place led to the motion for receivership.

The Better Place model for electric car use emerged from an effort among manufacturers and suppliers to establish a standard infrastructure in the nascent industry.

Under terms that resembled a cellphone plan, subscribers to Better Place bought their cars and paid about $350 a month to lease access to the batteries, swap stations and charge points. But only one car manufacturer, the French automaker Renault, signed on to adapt its Fluence Z.E. sedan to enable battery switching, limiting the customers’ choices and the company’s potential.

The battery has a range of about 100 miles. For those traveling longer distances, Better Place set up a network of switching stations where it promised that swapping a depleted battery for a fully charged one would take about the same time as filling a car with gas, so that range would no longer be an issue.

“It’s not the future of gas stations; it’s the end of them,” the company Web site boasted.

About three dozen switching stations now dot Israel, which is about 260 miles long from north to south, but they often look deserted.

The company was founded in Palo Alto, Calif., by Shai Agassi, an Israeli entrepreneur who had previously been a top executive at SAP, the German software company. It then moved from California to Tel Aviv.

In October, Better Place said that Mr. Agassi had been succeeded as its chief by Evan Thornley, the company’s top executive in Australia. The company said Mr. Agassi would continue as a board member and shareholder. Mr. Thornley left after only three months, over differences regarding the direction of the company, according to Globes, the Israeli business publication. He was succeeded by Mr. Cohen.

In February, Better Place announced that it was winding down its operations in North America and Australia to concentrate on its core markets in Denmark and Israel.

Mr. Cohen said on Sunday that the company would do what it could to continue to serve its customers and operate the recharging network, until the liquidator decided on a course of action.
642 2013-05-27 How marvelous, amid the furor of the ballet spring season at Lincoln Center, to spend an evening watching top-level Indian dance — and to recall that its Odissi genre is not only far older than ballet but just as beautiful, classical and compelling. Pure dance and “speaking” mime alternate and overlap; every part of the body is involved, not the least fingers and eyes; the tilt of the shoulder line from one diagonal to another becomes a richly harmonic effect, like a change from one full chord to another; long-held poses sing out with powerfully sculptural effect amid rapid rhythms.

On Friday night the Orissa Dance Academy, a troupe making its first visit to New York at the end of an American tour, gave a single performance at the Ailey Studios. I had seen the troupe only in rehearsal last year at its home studios in Bhubaneswar, Orissa, the eastern Indian state from which the style derives. My impression then was that this was one of India’s finest companies; Friday’s performance confirmed this. It is directed by Aruna Mohanty, the company’s most petite and remarkable performer, who dances its main solos and proves compellingly expressive. But on this tour she is joined by 10 other dancers — 6 men, 4 women — who display an impressive array of styles. I’ve never been so aware of the diversity of which Odissi is capable.

The program’s two main drawbacks were taped music and no intermission, despite a two-hour running time. Taped music is often used in India, even in festival performances, but I couldn’t help recalling how, at that Bhubaneswar rehearsal, music was played live (and recorded): the change in atmosphere and immediacy is intense.

Ms. Mohanty’s solo, “Ramate Yamuna,” was the evening’s most enchanting item. Illustrating part of Jayadeva’s love poem “Gita Govinda” from the perspective of Radha as she searches for Krishna among trees and vines beside the river Yamuna, it demonstrated Odissi’s capacity for abhinaya (expressive mime), but also moved seamlessly in and out of dance passages. (In all forms of Indian classical dance, abhinaya has much more dance potential than does explanatory mime in 19th-century ballet.)

The focus of Ms. Mohanty’s gestures, often addressing one fixed point as if in dialogue with a person unseen by the audience, was itself spellbinding, opening up an interior world of the mind. At one point Ms. Mohanty indicated her heart to disclose love’s wound; a moment later she rubbed the spot, now recovering from her affliction. Advancing or retreating, her rhythm made Radha’s journey through space vivid. The placing of the ball of a foot, the opening of a hand as if sounding a bell, the movement of her torso as if softly blown by feeling: all wonderful.
643 2013-05-28 At an industry conference, Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, struck back against claims that Apple’s innovation streak had run out....
644 2013-05-28 Crystal Palace won promotion to England’s Premier League on Monday. Now the club must retool under Manager Ian Holloway if it is to avoid relegation next season....
645 2013-05-28 A handful of viewing choices to catch during Wednesday’s matches at Roland Garros....
646 2013-05-28 The video artist’s meditative site-specific installation hints that our cities aren’t exactly what they think they are....
647 2013-05-28 A son will operate the restaurant his father ran for three decades....
648 2013-05-28 Eager to increase his name recognition, John A. Catsimatidis commissioned a highly biographical 60-second ad that will be shown on cable and broadcast television....
649 2013-05-28 Lauren Davis of Boca Raton, Fla., lost to Kristina Mladenovic of France, 6-0, 7-5, on Tuesday at Roland Garros....
650 2013-05-28 Jack Sock shows promise in winning his first-round match at the French Open after advancing through qualifying, but it is tinged with sadness over the loss of two friends....
651 2013-05-28 Shares in Bankia, the giant Spanish mortgage lender that was at the heart of the country’s banking crisis, fell sharply on Tuesday after 11.5 billion new shares were issued as part of a 15.5 billion-euro recapitalization plan....
652 2013-05-28 With the new health insurance law kicking in, Jessica Johnson has been preparing customers for a price increase....
653 2013-05-28 Clio Awards, New York, part of Guggenheim Digital Media, plans to produce a new event honoring creative excellence in the fashion and beauty industries, called the Clio Image Awards. Women’s Wear Daily, owned by Advance Publications, will be the founding media partner for the new awards. Entries will be accepted from November through March 2014, with the first awards to be presented in May 2014.

Cramer-Krasselt, Chicago, kept a large account as its New York office won a large account. Porsche Cars North America, Atlanta, which is owned by Volkswagen, decided to keep its creative account at Cramer-Krasselt, which has handled the assignment since 2007. The decision came after a six-month review that also included four other agencies: Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners; Droga5; McKinney, part of Cheil Worldwide; and Olson. Porsche Cars spends more than $20 million a year on advertising. And the Patrón Spirits Company, Las Vegas, named the Cramer-Krasselt New York office as the agency of record for United States brand positioning and advertising for Patrón tequila, in a decision that came after the agency created the Patrón Christmas holiday campaign last year. The assignment, with annual spending estimated at $20 million, had previously been handled by the Richards Group, Dallas.

Effie Worldwide, New York, presented its annual awards for North America. The North American Grand Effie, the award for best in show, was presented to “The Vet and the N00b,” a campaign to promote the Activision Blizzard video game “Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3.” The campaign was led by 72andSunny, part of MDC Partners; the other agencies participating were OMD, part of the Omnicom Group; SapientNitro, part of Sapient; and Edelman, part of Daniel J. Edelman Worldwide. Also, based on an annual analysis of data about winners of and finalists for the North American Effie Awards, Procter & Gamble was named the most effective advertiser; Mizuno, most effective brand; Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, part of WPP, most effective advertising agency network; Ogilvy & Mather New York, most effective individual agency office; and Wieden & Kennedy, most effective independently owned advertising agency.

Barry Frey joined the Digital Place-Based Advertising Association, New York, as president and chief executive. He succeeds Susan Danaher, to left to become executive vice president and chief revenue officer at Adspace Digital Mall Network. Mr. Frey had most recently been a senior adviser at Sonenshine Partners, New York, and before that worked at Cablevision.

Marianne Gambelli joined Horizon Media, New York, as executive vice president and chief investment officer. She assumes duties from Aaron Cohen, executive vice president and chief media negotiation officer, who, the agency said, is moving to a senior advisory role, reporting to Bill Koenigsberg, president and chief executive. Ms. Gambelli had most recently been president for NBC broadcast sales at NBCUniversal, New York, part of Comcast.

Jayne Jamison, vice president, publisher and chief revenue officer at Seventeen, New York, part of the Hearst Magazines unit of the Hearst Corporation, will also oversee Redbook magazine, taking the new title of vice president and publishing director for Seventeen and Redbook. She assumes the duties for Redbook from Mary E. Morgan, who had been vice president, publisher and chief revenue officer. Ms. Morgan resigned, Hearst Magazines said.

Salar Kamangar, chief executive of YouTube and senior vice president for video at the parent, Google, will be honored on June 19 as the Media Person of the Year for 2013 at the Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity. The festival, the 60th, will be held in Cannes, France, from June 16 through 22.

Kevin Kohn joined the New York office of Lotame Solutions in a new post, chief revenue officer. He had most recently been senior vice president and general manager of general markets at LivePerson, New York.

JP Kyrillos joined The Daily Meal, New York, part of the Spanfeller Media Group, as president, filling a vacant post. He had most recently been publisher at Travel & Leisure magazine, part of the American Express American Express Publishing Corporation, which is a unit of the American Express Company and is managed by the Time Inc. unit of Time Warner.

Late July Organic Snacks, Barnstable, Mass., chose Haberman, Minneapolis, to handle the brand’s 2013 campaign and social marketing expansion. Billings were not disclosed. There had been no previous agency.

Jason Shafton joined Comedy Central, New York, part of Viacom, as vice president for brand marketing. He succeeds Deena Stern, who left in February to join the new Esquire Network, part of the NBCUniversal division of Comcast, as head of marketing. Mr. Shafton had been head of the Google Play product and social marketing at Google.

Signature Brands, Ocala, Fla., chose Eric Mower & Associates, Syracuse, to help the company introduce Breyers Ice Cream Toppings. Spending has not been determined. Signature is using the Breyers name under a licensing agreement with the Breyers parent, Unilever. The account is being managed from the Mower office in Buffalo; many of the elements of the campaign are being produced agencywide.

Traffic Audit Bureau for Media Measurement, New York, said that its board had approved financing for research into measurement of digital billboards. The organization already measures audiences for other types of outdoor signs as part of its Out of Home Ratings system. The goal of the new initiative is to find a way to report the audiences for each ad that appears on a digital sign rather than a rating for the sign itself. The organization will work with Inrix, which provides traffic information, and Perception Research Services, the primary supplier for the original eye-tracking study as the Out of Home Ratings system was brought out.

Steve Woolway joined Aerify Media, New York, in a new post, chief revenue officer. He had been vice president for sales and business development at Mediaocean, New York.

Jay Zasa rejoined R/GA, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as senior vice president and executive creative director for campaigns, which the agency described as a new role. He had been an executive creative director at the Barbarian Group, New York, owned by Cheil Worldwide, and before that spent five years at R/GA, most recently as an executive creative director.
654 2013-05-28 The cosmetics company Coty plans to sell 57.1 million shares at $16.50 to $18.50 apiece, according to an amended prospectus filed on Tuesday. At the midpoint of that range, the company would be valued at about $6.7 billion....
655 2013-05-28 Mr. Pine plays the title character in Lucas Hnath’s play, “A Public Reading of an Unproduced Screenplay About the Death of Walt Disney.”...
656 2013-05-28 Intuit sees “small-business strength.” Groupon has a giant cat in a spaceship. Restaurants and real estate take off. A study says teenagers are migrating from Facebook to Twitter. Are you dissatisfied with your Web presence?...
657 2013-05-28 Then came Murphy, to ensure the rally would not go to waste. On a 3-1 count, he slapped a cutter from reliever Dave Robertson up the middle, sending Valdespin home. As the ball rolled into center field, Murphy lifted his bat and slammed it on the grass in foul territory in celebration. It was a bit of redemption for Murphy, who had been robbed of a home run earlier.

“It’s been a little bit of a frustrating time for us,” Murphy said of his display. “It felt like it was a big moment, and I was really excited.”

Robertson bemoaned his lack of command. “I definitely want to go back out there,” he said. “I want to redeem myself after being horrible tonight.”

Robertson and the Yankees will get their chance Tuesday, when the teams return to Citi Field, and on Wednesday and Thursday nights, when the series closes out at Yankee Stadium.

The teams were on divergent paths entering the series. The Yankees, fielding a lineup below their normal standard, are one game behind the first-place Boston Red Sox in the American League East. The Mets remained in fourth place in the National League East, trying to end a downward spiral.

A recent stream of defeats has darkened the mood around Citi Field this year. The crowd Monday was larger and more boisterous than for a typical game this season, but the atmosphere nevertheless fell well short of past meetings between the teams. Yankee fans infiltrated the park in large numbers, yet there were still big patches of empty seats visible throughout the game. The announced crowd of 32,911 was the smallest crowd for a game between the city rivals.

Those who showed up were treated to 2 hours 44 minutes of tightly played baseball. Jon Niese and Phil Hughes matched each other all night, each allowing only one run in seven innings. Niese allowed eight scattered hits and walked one batter while striking out four. Hughes was slightly better, allowing four hits and no walks and notching seven strikeouts.

“I thought my fastball was good at the start, and it got better as the game went on," Hughes said.

After a tense, scoreless start, the game first turned in the sixth, when Brett Gardner floated a ball down the left-field line that fell underneath the glove of Lucas Duda, who made an awkward diving attempt to catch it. Duda’s gamble allowed Gardner to cruise to third, and he scored when Jayson Nix sliced a single to right.

Gardner galvanized his team in the field, too. In the bottom of the sixth, with two outs and a man on first, Murphy blasted a changeup from Hughes deep to left-center field. But before the ball dropped beyond the fence, Gardner leapt into the air and caught it, crashing into the wall. The play roused a huge approving roar from the Yankee fans present. Murphy, who thought he had hit his fifth home run of the season, slammed his helmet into the dirt.

“It was just a tremendous play,” said David Wright, who watched it from the on-deck circle. “But we did a nice job rebounding.”

Wright led the charge, awakening Mets supporters and retying the score when he blasted a home run to start the bottom of the seventh. Wright, who fouled off four pitches from Hughes, hammered the eighth pitch of the at-bat, an inside fastball, deep into the left-field stands. It was his ninth Subway Series home run.

And not to be outdone by Gardner, Wright showed his defensive skills, too, by stylishly grabbing a hard-hit grounder from Vernon Wells in the eighth to start an inning-ending double play.

“Big players make big plays, and that’s what he is,” Collins said of Wright. “That’s why he’s the captain.”

That set the stage for Murphy, who provided the biggest play on a night when a few key moments loomed large.

Zack Wheeler, the Mets’ top pitching prospect, gave up five runs in four innings Monday for Class AAA Las Vegas. Wheeler, who should be promoted next month, walked three batters, struck out four and gave up two homers. ... All 30 major league teams wore specially designed camouflage caps and jerseys on Monday in observance of Memorial Day. Baseball will donate all proceeds from sales of the items to the charity Welcome Back Veterans.
658 2013-05-28 The police said Monday that they had arrested a 10th suspect in the killing of an off-duty British soldier on a London street. The police said a 50-year-old man was arrested east of London on Monday on suspicion of conspiring to murder Lee Rigby, 25, a soldier who was killed in the Woolwich area of London last week when he was run over by a vehicle and stabbed with knives and meat cleavers. No further details about the suspect’s identity were provided. Two main suspects shot by officers at the scene of the killing remained hospitalized.
659 2013-05-28 At least 23 workers were hurt in Cambodia on Monday when the police, using stun batons, moved in to end a protest over wages at a factory that makes clothing for Nike, a trade union representative said. The police were ordered to move about 3,000 workers, mostly women, who had blocked a road outside their factory in Kampong Speu Province, west of the capital, Phnom Penh. Sun Vanny, president of the Free Trade Union, said that the workers had been protesting since last Tuesday and that they wanted the company, which employs more than 5,000 at the plant, to give them $14 a month to help pay for transportation, rent and health costs on top of their $74 minimum wage. Police officials declined to comment on the clash. A Nike spokeswoman in the United States said the company was concerned about the allegations and investigating. Nike requires contract manufacturers to respect employees’ freedom of association, she said.
660 2013-05-28 Crystal Palace will play in the Premier League next season after beating Watford, 1-0, at Wembley Stadium on an extra-time penalty kick by Kevin Phillips. Palace returns to the top flight of English soccer after an eight-year absence.

■ Rafa Benitez is returning to Italy as Napoli’s coach after his stint as Chelsea’s interim manager.

■ Brazilian striker Neymar said he signed a five-year contract with Barcelona, two days after saying he would play for the club. The Brazilian news media said Barcelona would pay him about $38.7 million.
661 2013-05-28 Toward the end of his recital at Bargemusic in Brooklyn on Friday evening Rob Schwimmer performed Kurt Weill’s “Lost in the Stars” with a warm, smooth baritone that had great polish and sweetness in the upper range.

It wasn’t his, of course. The baritone, I mean.

Mr. Schwimmer is an instrumentalist and composer who plays the piano, organ, celesta, clavioline (an early synthesizer) and the Haken Continuum Fingerboard, a microtonal, multi-timbral keyboard. But he is best known as an uncommonly fine performer on the theremin, and it was on this uncannily human-sounding instrument that he gave an elegant rendition of Weill’s wistful song.

The theremin is played by manipulating an electrical field with tiny, precise hand gestures; the smallest movement of the player immediately affects pitch and volume. A gently rocking barge on a blustery night therefore offers a particularly difficult environment — a “Day of A-tunement,” in one of Mr. Schwimmer’s many throwaway lines. But his intonation was impeccable in theremin arrangements of Wagner’s “Träume” and of “Scene d’Amour” from Alfred Hitchcock’s “Vertigo,” and the movement of the boat only added to the pleasant sensory confusion.

Not only can the Continuum keyboard produce microtones — the notes in between the keys of a piano — but it is so sensitive to the touch that tiny changes in position, pressure or vibrato of the player’s finger affect timbre and volume. To demonstrate its range Mr. Schwimmer performed harpsichordlike arpeggios in the left hand underneath a swooning melody in the right with a bit of a warble; then he played a funky riff in which the instrument not only imitated the sound of a human voice but even seemed to scat on nonsense syllables.

Mr. Schwimmer gave an affecting performance of Messiaen’s “Louange à l’Éternité de Jésus” from “Quartet for the End of Time,” a movement, he pointed out, which had initially been conceived for six ondes Martenots, an early cousin of the theremin. Scriabin, too, would have been pleased with Mr. Schwimmer’s adaptation of his “Feuillet d’Album” (Op. 45) for Continuum.

In his selections for piano Mr. Schwimmer showed the same curiosity and delight in experimentation. In Charles Mingus’s “Goodbye Porkpie Hat” he kept the right hand in the song’s original key of F while moving the left into D, resulting in hollowed-out harmonies that were mildly, but not unpleasantly, alienating.
662 2013-05-28 While about 12 percent of the nation’s working-age population is black, about 5 percent of physicians and dentists in the United States are black — a share that has not grown since 1990, according to an analysis of census data that was prepared for The New York Times by sociologists at Queens College of the City University of New York. The analysis found that 3 percent of American architects are black, another field where the share has not increased in more than two decades.

The share of the nation’s lawyers who are minorities and women, which had been growing slowly but steadily for years, fell in 2010 for the first time since NALP, the National Association for Law Placement, began keeping statistics in 1993. The deep recession not only disproportionately hurt African-Americans in many fields, but it also led businesses to make diversity programs less of a priority. And a growing number of states — including Arizona, Michigan, Nebraska, New Hampshire and Oklahoma — have moved to ban race-based affirmative action in recent years. California, Florida and Washington did so in the 1990s.

Such numbers raise the question of whether the private sector’s commitment to affirmative action and diversity programs is eroding, even as the Supreme Court again considers a high-profile case involving a public university.

“We’re at a precipice,” said John Page, the president of the National Bar Association, an 88-year-old group representing black lawyers and judges. “There is diversity fatigue. We could fall backwards very quickly.”

Even more worrisome to some people than the small number of African-Americans at the upper echelons of many organizations is a lack of progress at entry levels. In Texas legal circles, there have been some notable symbolic gains for black lawyers at the top of the profession; both the State Bar of Texas and the Houston Bar Association just elected their first black presidents. But many black lawyers said they worried that there were fewer young black lawyers in the pipeline for future leadership roles.

While blacks made up only 2.65 percent of the partners at Houston firms last year, that figure represents progress as the share of black partners more than doubled over the past decade, according to statistics kept by NALP, the law placement association. At the lower levels of firms, black lawyers have lost some ground, however. Houston firms reported that 4.74 percent of their associates last year were black, down from 4.96 percent in 2002, the association said.

Lisa Tatum, the black lawyer who will take over the presidency of the Texas bar next month, said there was concern that firms were not pursuing diversity as aggressively as they did before.

“There’s no question there’s been some pullback,” said Ms. Tatum, who works in San Antonio. “There are some firms that look at what they have done, they look at President Obama, and they say we’re there.”

The recession set back diversity efforts in many fields. After the financial crisis hit in 2008, the Conference Board, a business membership and research organization, asked senior executives how the downturn was changing their priorities. Among the several challenges they deemed less pressing was “achieving diversity and representation in the cross-cultural work force.”

Somewhat lost in the legal arguments over affirmative action are the less tangible, more subtle forces that can determine professional success, more than a dozen black lawyers here, in San Antonio and elsewhere in Texas said in interviews. Social rituals can play a big role in determining who makes it on to the partnership track in the exclusive world of white-shoe firms, and whether those partners can bring in business as rainmakers.

Gerald Roberts, a black lawyer who was a partner at Thompson & Knight before leaving in 2010, said that social relationships left some black lawyers at a distance from their white colleagues and potential clients. “For the most part, they don’t go to church together on Sunday enough, they don’t have dinner together enough, and they don’t play enough golf together to develop sufficiently strong relationships of trust and confidence,” he said.

A black associate at one Houston firm, who requested anonymity so as not to jeopardize his chances of making partner, used a familiar legal term to describe his unease at work, saying he sometimes felt there was a “rebuttable presumption” that he was there to fill a quota and was not as qualified as white colleagues.

Many black lawyers leave big firms to strike out on their own or to join the public sector.

By the end of Catina Haynes’s first year in 2006 at one big Houston law firm, she said, many of the minority lawyers who had started with her were gone, along with the lawyer who recruited her. Billable hours shrank as the economy weakened, and Ms. Haynes said black lawyers did not always have advocates. “It took someone in power to pull other people in and say, ‘I want them on cases,’ ” Ms. Haynes said. She left the firm in 2010 and now works in the Harris County District Attorney’s Office.

Thompson & Knight currently has eight black lawyers, down from 17 in 2008. The overall size of the firm declined during that period as well, but the portion of minority lawyers has fallen, too. In 2008, 15 percent of its lawyers were minorities, according to the Diversity Scorecard, an annual survey by The American Lawyer, but in 2011, the year covered by the most recent scorecard, 10 percent were minorities.

“The firm genuinely had a very strong diversity commitment when I joined,” said one current partner, who requested anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly. He added that Ms. Higgins’s exit in 2008, the death of the firm’s former managing partner and the recession hurt the momentum. When Ms. Higgins was at the firm, he recalled, the diversity committee sat down together regularly. “You were scared not to attend,” he said.

Emily Parker, the managing partner at Thompson & Knight, said the firm was proud of its black partners and worked hard to promote diversity, but she noted that many top law firms had struggled to retain minority lawyers in recent years. She pointed out that the Diversity Scorecard survey had reported a decrease in the number of minority lawyers at top firms since 2008, even as more firms responded to the survey.

“Even though the number of surveyed law firms increased by 10 percent, the overall number of minority attorneys decreased by approximately 3 percent, which is a convincing statistical illustration of the minority-retention problem faced by Thompson & Knight and practically every law firm in the country,” Ms. Parker said in a statement. She said the firm remained focused on fostering diversity, providing law school scholarships for minority students and internships for students from historically black institutions.

Despite the challenges, some lawyers at Thompson & Knight said they saw signs of renewed progress. Ms. Parker, who was the first female lawyer hired by the firm in 1973, last year became the first woman to lead it. This spring, Marlen Whitley, who is black, was named hiring partner in the firm’s office here in Houston, and a black associate is scheduled to join the Dallas office this fall.

The firm has five black partners, more than many others and an increase from three in 2008. Still, only two are equity partners, who share in the profits of the firm. “Being an equity partner means you’ve arrived, that you have clout,” the current partner said. “It’s the brass ring.”
663 2013-05-28 GENEVA — The international community is failing to meet its obligations to victims of Syria’s conflict, the United Nations’ top human rights official said Monday, invoking the responsibility of governments to protect civilians of another country from war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide.

“Appalling violations of the most basic human rights are occurring in Syria, and I fear that we in the international community are failing to meet our fundamental obligations to the victims,” Navi Pillay, the United Nations high commissioner for human rights, said in an address opening a session of the Human Rights Council.

“We have agreed that we have a duty to protect our fellow human beings — even if they are born in other countries; and even when they are being crushed by governments that have a claim to sovereignty over their territory,” Ms. Pillay said, urging states “to make every effort to forge an end to this humanitarian disaster.”

Ms. Pillay stopped short of calling for direct intervention in Syria, instead repeating an appeal she has consistently made for the Security Council to refer Syria to the International Criminal Court in The Hague to prosecute war crimes suspects.

Her statement preceded a special Human Rights Council session on Syria called by Qatar, Turkey and the United States, expected in the next few days. A new report by a commission of inquiry into human right abuses in Syria is expected early next month. Since it was set up in August 2011, the commission has compiled lists of names of units, individuals and government agencies identified as responsible for human rights abuses to assist future prosecution by a national or international tribunal, but only the Security Council or the concerned country can refer the issues to The Hague court.
664 2013-05-29 Six second-round matches worth viewing during Thursday’s action at Roland Garros....
665 2013-05-29 Some Democrats are giddy that Michele Bachmann has announced her intention to retire from Congress, but that may allow Republicans to avoid a toss-up race in what should be a reasonably safe district....
666 2013-05-29 The Lisson Gallery and T magazine paid homage to Ai Weiwei for his new exhibition, which opened today in Venice for the 55th Biennale....
667 2013-05-29 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
668 2013-05-29 Dog lovers should consider their insurance coverage before hosting pets for a fee....
669 2013-05-29 The organization will continue its daily operations and reorganize as it seeks to emerge from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, its executive director said....
670 2013-05-29 James Gorman, Morgan Stanley’s chief executive and proud father, sent an e-mail on Wednesday promoting his daughter’s music career....
671 2013-05-29 The S.E.C.’s report said the exchange’s executives proceeded with trading although they knew of programming errors....
672 2013-05-29 The trade group representing major cruise lines has recently adopted a passenger bill of rights that includes several measures suggested this year by Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York....
673 2013-05-29 LAS VEGAS — Two singers, two gigs, two cities and stages, the same opening song. “It’s not my imagination,” it begins, drawled. Pause, and then a yell: “I’ve got a gun at my back!”

The first version, on Saturday night at the Korova club in San Antonio, was Ron Reyes’s: a rallying cry. The second, on Monday night at an outdoor stage of the Punk Rock Bowling and Music Festival here, was Keith Morris’s: a freaked howl. Mr. Morris was the first singer, and Mr. Reyes the second, of Black Flag, which started in the late ’70s and went on to become one of America’s most important punk bands, its four-bars logo tattooed on 18- to 50-year-old flesh all over the world.

The song was “Revenge,” from Black Flag’s second EP, released in 1980. The elasticity of the vowels in “imagination” — by both singers — is South Bay Los Angeles. The gun in the narrative isn’t explicitly, but could be, a cop’s; punks were new and little understood on the West Coast when Black Flag started, and hunted by the local police. Shows were regularly stopped; violence followed the band; little money was made.

Until its end in 1986, Black Flag went through at least 16 band members. The fourth and final singer was Henry Rollins, the most famous member of the band, then and since. But “final” is perhaps the wrong word. Two different reunionlike post-Black Flag entities are on tour right now. Mr. Reyes is in one called Black Flag; Mr. Morris is in one called Flag. Neither includes Mr. Rollins, who has more or less given up music for writing. Both bands — for reunion bands — are strangely good and in possession of a life force, in different ways.

The dueling-reunions aspect came together quickly. In late 2011 Mr. Morris convened a few of the band’s most significant ex-members — the bassist Chuck Dukowski and the drummer Bill Stevenson, as well as Stephen Egerton, guitarist for the Descendents — for a one-off set, and it went well. They started planning, later roping in the guitarist and hoarse-voiced singer Dez Cadena, and had a tour almost ready to announce in January this year.

But Greg Ginn, Black Flag’s lead guitarist, principal songwriter and owner of its old record label, SST, beat them to it with announcement that a new Black Flag — he has legal rights to the name — would play at the Hevy Music Festival in England. Flag rushed out its announcement of its own tour on the same day. Mr. Ginn followed with more news, of a plan to tour roughly the same markets at around the same time as Flag, as well as to release a new album of new songs.
674 2013-05-29 Jack Grubman, the former Citigroup telecommunications analyst and now an industry consultant, argues against a proposed Dish Network-Sprint deal....
675 2013-05-29 Google has introduced a new version of Gmail that automatically sorts mail into categories like social and notifications....
676 2013-05-29 Lisa P. Jackson, who oversaw some of the administration’s biggest environmental initiatives, will serve as the company’s senior environmental adviser....
677 2013-05-29 Deaths from most causes decline along with the business cycle, an oddity that calls for further study not just of what causes recessions but also of what determines mortality....
678 2013-05-29 “Early wins in club endorsements may only reflect the views of a small number of voters or activist, but they show organizational strength, and they’re seen as an early bellwether of which way a race is headed,” said Mark D. Levine, a Democratic district leader and the founder of the Barack Obama Democratic Club of Northern Manhattan, who is also running for Council.

“Candidates fight very, very hard for these endorsements,” Mr. Levine added.

Club members are the target of some of the most intensely personal campaigning of the mayoral race. Candidates will show up at club events, send mailings to club members and even sometimes call them directly to ask for their support.

“The key is being there,” said Mark Green, the former public advocate and 2001 Democratic mayoral nominee.

Political clubs arose in New York during the Revolutionary War as caucuses to support patriots or loyalists. In the 19th and early 20th centuries, clubs were social centers, where party members would go to drink and dine, and they offered assistance to immigrants in exchange for their loyalty at the voting booth. In the early 1930s, there were 653 clubs in New York City, of which 281 occupied entire buildings. Since then, the influence of clubs has shrunk, as have their numbers. A recent report on clubs by Citizens Union found that there were 139 in the city today.

So far in the Democratic primary for mayor, Ms. Quinn has won several club endorsements, as have Bill de Blasio, the public advocate, and John C. Liu, the city comptroller. William C. Thompson Jr., a former comptroller and the 2009 Democratic mayoral nominee, has won one.

Tony Hoffmann, the president of the Village Independent Democrats, and Bob Botfeld, a district leader in Three Parks Democrats, on the Upper West Side, said they were surprised that their clubs voted to endorse Mr. Liu, given that two of his associates were recently found guilty of trying to funnel money to his campaign through an illegal fund-raising scheme. Mr. Hoffmann had hoped that Ms. Quinn would win his club’s endorsement, while Mr. Botfeld had been lobbying for Mr. de Blasio.

Asked why their fellow club members endorsed Mr. Liu instead, they said it was partly because of his strongly liberal positions on the stop-and-frisk tactic, which he calls for abolishing, and on giving charter schools space in public school buildings, which he opposes. In addition, both men said, some club members sympathized with Mr. Liu because of his legal troubles, believing that he had been unfairly singled out.

“There’s a natural bent in some of the clubs to be sympathetic with the underdog,” Mr. Botfeld said.

Several candidates in the citywide races this year have engaged in club-packing, a tradition in which supporters of a candidate join a club at the last possible moment in an effort to influence the outcome of the endorsement vote.

Ms. Quinn’s opponents have accused her of packing several clubs, including Lambda Independent Democrats and the Independent Neighborhood Democrats, in Brooklyn.

Ms. Quinn’s spokesman, Michael Morey, was unapologetic about her efforts to seek club endorsements. “Supporters sign up all the time to join local organizations to support her candidacy,” he said.

As leaders of the Independent Neighborhood Democrats realized earlier this year that the club was being packed with Council staff members, supporters of Mr. de Blasio began a major effort to get longtime members to show up for the vote, said Jesse Strauss, the club’s first vice president.

Mr. de Blasio is a member of the club, so losing the endorsement would have been a symbolic loss. In addition, Mr. Strauss said, many of the club members opposed Ms. Quinn because of her decision to overturn term limits, which allowed Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to run for a third term. “For a lot of us, to walk around the neighborhood with her name on the petition would have been an embarrassment,” Mr. Strauss said.

At the endorsement meeting in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn, on May 16, the atmosphere remained cordial, Mr. Strauss said. But when it came to securing votes, he said, it was “a bare-knuckles fight.”

After Mr. de Blasio failed to win a majority in the first vote, his supporters had to call friends who had already gone home to get them to return, and one person ran down the street to a restaurant where several people had gone for pizza to drag them back to vote again.

Mr. de Blasio won that vote, but lost the vote of the Lambda Independent Democrats to Ms. Quinn, who, if elected, would be the city’s first openly gay mayor.

Alan Fleishman, a former Lambda president, said many of the club’s members including him, were angry with Ms. Quinn over term limits and were supporting other candidates for that reason. Still, he did not blame her supporters for packing the club.

“Look, it was important to them,” he said, adding: “I’m a political person. I probably would have done the same.”
679 2013-05-29 The Salvadoran church, by contrast, has argued that the baby’s malformation should not be met with a death sentence.

“This case should not be used to legislate against human life,” read a statement from the Episcopal Conference of El Salvador.

Several Latin American nations have softened their stances against abortion in recent years. Uruguay’s Senate approved a bill last year allowing women to have abortions during the first trimester for any reason, after an earlier move to legalize the procedure in Mexico City. Courts in Colombia, Brazil and Argentina have also loosened restrictions on some abortions, allowing them in certain cases like rape or when the fetus is expected to die.

But a total ban on the procedure remains in El Salvador, Chile and Nicaragua. Doctors who perform abortions and mothers who request them can be sentenced to long prison terms. Under Salvadoran law, Beatriz, who asked that her last name be withheld to protect her identity, and her doctors could face up to eight years in prison if one is performed.

A group of doctors at the National Maternity Hospital, where she is being treated, determined that Beatriz’s risk of serious illness or death increased as the pregnancy continued, and that the fetus would die. They suggested terminating the pregnancy. “We agree in what proceeds,” the doctors wrote in a report, “but we are all subject to the laws of this country.”

In a letter addressed to the Supreme Court last month, Health Minister María Isabel Rodríguez described Beatriz’s situation as “grave maternal illness with a high probability of deterioration or maternal death.” Given the fatal prognosis of the fetus, “it is necessary to undertake a medical-legal approach urgently,” Ms. Rodríguez wrote.

But the case has its medical detractors as well. José Miguel Fortín Magaña, director of the Institute of Legal Medicine, which evaluates medical issues for the Supreme Court, acknowledged Beatriz’s medical problems but said that her health was currently under control and that she was not in danger at the moment.

“If someone has appendicitis, we have to remove the appendix, but we can’t say, ‘We’ll remove it now because maybe in the future there’ll be a problem,’ ” he said, arguing that when a mother was in more immediate peril, doctors would be allowed to induce a premature birth, possibly saving both the woman and the baby.

Other nations have wrestled with the question of whether to prioritize the health of the mother or the fetus. In 2010, the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights ordered chemotherapy or radiation to protect the life of a Nicaraguan woman with metastatic cancer who was being denied treatment because she was pregnant.

Last year in the Dominican Republic, a pregnant 16-year-old with cancer was denied chemotherapy for several weeks while doctors deliberated whether the drugs amounted to an induced abortion. The girl lost the baby and died herself after beginning treatment.

Last month, the inter-American commission told the Salvadoran government to protect Beatriz’s life by following the doctor’s recommendations for an abortion, but the government has been waiting for the Supreme Court to weigh in on the matter.

Beatriz is well aware that there is an international frenzy swirling around her, but it seems far from her mind — an abstraction compared with the palpable yearning to touch the young son she left behind in her rural village, three hours away.

She says she believes abortions are almost always wrong, acceptable only when the mother is at risk.

Her first pregnancy, in 2012, was fraught with complications, especially after the sixth month. Pre-existing lupus, an autoimmune disease, coupled with severe preeclampsia, a serious condition that leads to high blood pressure, forced her doctors to perform a premature Caesarean section. The baby remained in the hospital for over a month.

Medical records show that, following her doctor’s advice, Beatriz had a sterilization procedure scheduled shortly after the birth. She did not show up.

Then Beatriz found out she was pregnant again. Doctors told her the fetus had anencephaly, a birth defect in which the baby is born without parts of the brain and skull. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, almost all anencephalic babies die soon after birth.

Beatriz testified at a two-day oral Supreme Court hearing two weeks ago, the first of its kind in the country’s history. During a cross-examination, Víctor Hugo Mata, Beatriz’s lawyer, asked her to remove her shawl. Standing in front of the judges, she uncovered her arms, chest and back to reveal lupus-related sores. Her lupus is under control now.

Overwhelmed, she had to leave the chamber. The judges announced they would make a decision within 15 business days.

Mr. Mata said that no matter what the Supreme Court ruled, doctors would probably have to remove the fetus as Beatriz enters her third — and riskiest — trimester. Several American hospitals have offered to perform an abortion, but Mr. Mata said this was an opportunity for El Salvador to modify its law.

In a video posted on Vimeo this month, Beatriz asks that her doctors not be imprisoned “for what they may do to me.” The camera remains closed in on her small, spotted hands fidgeting on her thighs. Her burgeoning belly is covered with a red shirt.
680 2013-05-29 Ecuador’s foreign minister accused the British government on Tuesday of trampling on the human rights of the WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange by refusing to allow him to travel to Ecuador, which granted him political asylum almost a year ago. Mr. Assange, 41, took refuge in Ecuador’s tiny embassy in London last June to avoid extradition to Sweden, where he is wanted for questioning over sexual assault and rape accusations. He denies the allegations. Foreign Minister Ricardo Patino said the Ecuadorean government was preparing a document in which it would argue that Britain is legally “obliged” to give Mr. Assange permission to travel to South America.
681 2013-05-29 “Bike-Share System for New York Is Built With Ideas From Around the World” (news article, May 22) left me with many questions about the safety of pedestrians (especially the elderly) in this grand experiment in greening New York.

New Yorkers are often threatened by bikers who obey no lights, speed down hills and ride on sidewalks. We are now unleashing a huge amount of new riders, many with no urban experience, without a clear set of rules.

Who is insuring the bikers if they get into or cause an accident?

What kind of identification is there on a bike so that a pedestrian or driver can find out who is involved if there is a problem?

What is the role of the police in enforcing biker and pedestrian safety?

It would be lovely to live in a city like London, where bikers stop in unison, in their lanes, as lights turn red. Sadly, I don’t foresee that happening here.
682 2013-05-29 How had I let my craze to decrease my patient load overtake proper medical care? I had failed to check the head CT! I was appalled at myself, mortified by my negligence. I stumbled through the rest of the day, an acrid mix of shame and guilt churning inside me.

I never told anyone about my lapse — not my intern, not my attending physician, certainly not the patient’s family. I tried to rationalize it: the radiologist had caught the bleeding, and no additional harm had come to the patient.

But what if I had discharged the patient? What if I had started her on a medication like aspirin that could have worsened the bleeding? My error could easily have led to a fatal outcome. The patient was simply lucky.

In hospital lingo, this was a “near miss.” But a near miss is still an error, just one in which backup systems, oversight or sheer luck prevent harm.

A near miss, like any error, is an opportunity to examine how mistakes are made and what changes might prevent them. Yet we have no idea how many near misses there are. Many experts feel that near-miss errors dwarf the number of known errors, a number that is already too high for comfort. (According to a 2006 report, medication errors alone injure an estimated 1.5 million patients a year.)

But the instinct for most medical professionals is to keep these shameful mistakes to ourselves. For the past two years I’ve been interviewing doctors about the emotional experiences that have molded them. Though I was interested in the full range of emotions, nearly every single one brought up a medical error that they had been party to during their careers; many of them had never spoken about it before. The shame of their errors — including the near misses — was potent, even decades later.

Much attention has been paid to reducing medical errors. Electronic prescriptions avoid penmanship mistakes. Bar codes on wristbands ensure that medications go to the right patient. Checklists and timeouts before surgeries help prevent common oversights. But we can stop only the errors we know about. There remains a black hole of near misses, of uncharted errors — a black hole of shame that prevents caregivers from coming forward.

Medical culture is less overtly punitive than it used to be, but the guilt and blame are internalized, often savagely, by its practitioners. How can we ease the shame and help doctors and nurses come forward with their near misses?

This is not the type of thing we can orchestrate with a quality-improvement initiative and a zippy slogan. It has to come from inside the medical world, and it helps to start at the top.

When the chief of medicine or the director of nursing stands up and talks about his or her biggest medical error, it will get noticed by the rank and file. Hearing how a person in authority handled the emotional fallout and the feelings of incompetence may give others the courage to come forward. Until we attend to the culture of shame that surrounds medical error, we will be only nipping at the edges of one of the greatest threats to our patients’ health.
683 2013-05-29 But the incentive to do something is strong: under new federal rules, hospitals will lose money when patients get preventable infections.

One puzzle is why health care workers are so bad at it. Among the explanations studies have offered are complaints about , the pressures of an emergency environment, the tedium of hand washing and resistance to authority (doctors, who have the most authority, tend to be the most resistant, studies have found).

“There are still staff out there who say, ‘How dare they!’ ” said Elaine Larson, a professor in ’s school of nursing who has made a career out of studying hand-washing.

Philip Liang, who founded a company, General Sensing, that outfits hospital workers with electronic badges that track hand-washing, attributes low compliance to “high cognitive load.”

“Nurses have to remember hundreds — thousands — of procedures,” Mr. Liang said. “Take out the catheter; change four medications. It’s really easy to forget the basic tasks. You’re really concentrating on what’s difficult, not on what’s simple.”

His company uses a technology similar to Wi-Fi or Bluetooth. The badge communicates with a sensor on every sanitizer and soap dispenser, and with a beacon behind the patient’s bed. If the wearer’s hands are not cleaned, the badge vibrates, like a cellphone, so that the health care worker is reminded but not humiliated in front of the patient.

Just waving one’s hands under the dispenser is not enough. “We know if you took a swig of soap,” Mr. Liang said.

The program uses a frequent-flier model to reward workers with incentives, sometimes cash bonuses, the more they wash their hands.

Gojo Industries, which manufactures the ubiquitous Purell, has also developed technology that can be snapped into any of its soap or sanitizer dispensers to track hand-hygiene.

At North Shore, the video monitoring program, run by a company called Arrowsight, has been adapted from the meat industry, where cameras track whether workers who skin animals — the hide can contaminate the meat — wash their hands, knives and electric cutters.

Adam Aronson, the chief executive of Arrowsight, said he was inspired to go from slaughterhouses to hospitals by his father, Dr. Mark Aronson, vice chairman for quality at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in and a professor at Harvard Medical School.

“Nobody would do a free test — they talked about Big Brother, patient privacy — nobody wanted to touch it,” Mr. Aronson said.

He finally got a trial at a small surgery center in , Ga., and in 2008, North Shore also agreed to a trial in its intensive care unit. The medical center at the , is also using Arrowsight’s video system, and Mr. Aronson said eight more hospitals in the United States, , the and had agreed to test the cameras.

North Shore’s study, published in the journal , found that during a 16-week preliminary period when workers were being filmed but were not informed of the results, hand-hygiene rates were less than 10 percent. When they started getting reports on their filmed behavior, through electronic scoreboards and e-mails, the rates rose to 88 percent. The hospital kept the system, but because of the expense, it has limited it to the intensive care unit, where the payoff is greatest because the patients are sickest.

To get a passing score, workers have to wash their hands within 10 seconds of entering a patient’s room. Only workers who stay in the room for at least a minute are counted, and the quality of their washing is not rated. Scores for each shift are broadcast on hallway scoreboards, which read “Great Shift” for those that top 90 percent compliance.

Technology is not the only means of coercion. The Greater New York Hospital Association, a trade group, and the health care workers union, 1199 S.E.I.U., train employees to be “infection coaches” for other employees.

In a technique borrowed from soccer, hospital workers hand red cards to colleagues who do not wash, said Dr. Brian Koll, chief of infection prevention for Beth Israel Medical Center in , who trains coaches. (Unlike soccer players, however, workers do not have to leave.) “It’s a way to communicate in a nonconfrontational way that also builds teamwork,” Dr. Koll said.

“You do not want to say, ‘You did not wash your hands.’ ”

Doctors, nurses and others at Beth who consistently refuse to wash their hands may be forced to take a four-hour remedial infection prevention course, Dr. Koll said. But to turn that into something positive, they are then asked to teach infection prevention to others.

Dr. Koll said that he was not aware of malpractice suits based on hand-washing, but that hand-washing compliance rates often become part of the information used when suing hospitals for infections.

A hospital in the gave out tickets — sort of like traffic tickets — to workers who did not wash their hands, he said. “That did not work in our institution,” he said. “People made it a negative connotation.” Beth Israel finds that positive reinforcement works better, Dr. Koll said.

Like other hospitals, Beth Israel also uses what it calls secret shoppers — staff members, often medical students, in white coats whose job is to observe whether people are washing their hands. Beth Israel gives high-scoring workers gold stars to wear on their lapels, “hokey as this sounds,” he said; after five gold stars they get a platinum star, or perhaps a coupon for free coffee. “Health care workers like caffeine,” Dr. Koll said.

There are buttons saying, “Ask me if I’ve washed my hands,” and Dr. Koll said that patients’ families did ask because they understood the risks. Especially in pediatrics, he said, “parents do not have a problem at all asking.”

To avoid slogan fatigue, Beth Israel has at least five buttons, including “Got Gel?” and “Hand Hygiene First.”

Dr. Larson, the hand-washing expert, supports the electronic systems being developed, but says none are perfect yet. “People learn to game the system,” she said. “There was one system where the monitoring was waist high, and they learned to crawl under that. Or there are people who will swipe their badges and turn on the water, but not wash their hands. It’s just amazing.”
684 2013-05-29 Nike stuck by Tiger Woods in the wake of his infidelity and gave Michael Vick an endorsement deal after Vick had served time in prison for his role in a ring, which included killing dogs that underperformed.

But this week, the company emphasized that there is one transgression it cannot tolerate: cheating.

In the wake of Lance Armstrong’s admission that he used performance-enhancing drugs to win his record seven titles, Nike took another step back from Armstrong and announced that it would stop manufacturing Livestrong-brand shoes and apparel at the end of this year. Nike, Livestrong’s main corporate backer, will continue to fulfill its financial obligations to Livestrong, the foundation started by Armstrong, through 2014, but will not renew the partnership, Livestrong said.

“Considering what the foundation had been through recently and the significant changes that have occurred, of course, the foundation’s leadership had to hope for the best but expect changes like this,” said Katherine McLane, a spokeswoman for Livestrong. “Obviously, it’s a sad day, but it’s marked by the foundation’s deep gratitude to Nike.”

Nike’s decision signals an end to a partnership that began nine years ago and turned Livestrong into a marketing marvel that revolutionized the way charities raise money. Armstrong’s brand also benefited. He had rebounded from to race the Tour again and become a global hero to millions as a symbol of hope to those fighting cancer.

Nike helped raise more than $100 million for the charity, mostly through the sale of more than 87 million yellow rubber Livestrong bracelets that cost $1 each. Those bracelets helped unite the cancer community and became ubiquitous worldwide, making it onto the wrists of Hollywood stars on the red carpet and high-powered politicians like .
685 2013-05-29 Brian McCann hit two home runs, including a solo shot in the 10th inning that lifted the visiting Atlanta Braves over the Toronto Blue Jays, 7-6, on Tuesday. McCann and the rookie Evan Gattis hit back-to-back homers off Ramon Ortiz in the sixth, giving the Braves a 6-5 lead. The Blue Jays tied it on J. P. Arencibia’s run-scoring double in the seventh.

Blue Jays starter Brandon Morrow left after two innings with soreness in his forearm. He did not pitch between May 5 and May 18 because of neck and back soreness, and of his 47 pitches against the Braves, only three were above 90 miles an hour.

■ Michael Cuddyer had three hits, including an R.B.I. single in the ninth inning that gave the visiting Colorado Rockies a 2-1 win over the Houston Astros. Colorado’s starter, Jorge De La Rosa, scattered five hits with one run over seven innings. Matt Belisle (2-2) threw a perfect eighth for the win.

■ The Indians’ All-Star closer, Chris Perez, will not throw for a week after a magnetic resonance imaging exam revealed tendinitis in his right shoulder.
686 2013-05-29 Each week, Val Haller, a music-obsessed baby boomer and the founder of the Web site Valslist.com, matches tracks from her generation to those of her 20-something sons’ generation.

Now that I’m a grown-up, the phrase “summer vacation” doesn’t have the same end-of-school “freedom ring” it used to. I still have to work, cook, wear shoes, keep up with e-mail and check in with my kids. But I'm not too old to feel the sun on my face and the sand under my toes when I walk to the beach with my dog. And you can be sure my car windows are down and my radio volume up when I hear a summer song.

“Songs of summer” can be an overworked phrase but there’s no denying the phenomenon. In his 1996 Entertainment Weekly article “The 100 Greatest Summer Songs of All Time!” David Browne defines the summer song: “They had to have been released as singles. The singles had to peak during summer months (ruling out “Good Vibrations” — a classic that peaked in the dead of winter). More vaguely, each had to capture the breezy, loopy, head-spinning quintessence of summer.” Memorable summer songs for me include "Hot Fun in the Summertime" by Sly & the Family Stone (1969); "In the Summertime" by Mungo Jerry (1970); "Alone Again (Naturally)" by Gilbert O'Sullivan, (1972); "My Love" by Paul McCartney (1973); "Rock the Boat" by Hues Corporation (1974); "I'm Not in Love" by 10CC (1975); “Fooled Around and Fell In Love” by Elvin Bishop (1976).

And now, in my 55th year, I present a new song of summer, “Stompa” by this week’s featured artist, Serena Ryder. If you haven’t heard it on the radio yet, you will.

I’m stretching a bit this week to fit Melissa Etheridge's recording career, which began in the mid-1980s, into our "vintage" artist category. But her sound is so similar to this week's featured artist (or rather vice versa), it will help me describe our new talent better. Melissa Etheridge, born in Kansas and now 51, picked up a guitar at age 8 and later attended Berklee College of Music. Lyrically, she is honest and brave, writing about hard stuff others steer clear of. Her 2007 song "The Awakening," for example, is about her battle with breast cancer. Two tracks from her 1993 album, "Yes I Am" ("I'm the Only One" and "Come to My Window") became two of the biggest radio and MTV hits of the decade, earning her a Grammy Award as best female rock vocalist.
687 2013-05-29 The rain on Tuesday, which delayed play for several hours, was only the latest reminder of what Roland Garros was still missing. While the Australian Open is completing work on its third stadium with a retractable roof and Wimbledon has announced plans to start work on its second roof-equipped court, the French Open is now looking at completing its reconstruction work and expansion in 2018 at the earliest after initially targeting 2016.

That is only if the French Tennis Federation and city of Paris win an ongoing legal battle over the project’s existence.

“In the French mentality right now, every time there’s a project, whether it’s cultural or sports-oriented, there are always problems,” said Jean Gachassin, the president of the French federation. “We can’t do anything normally. Before we move a tree or a flower bed or raise something 10 meters, we need permits and everything gets contested. We knew it before we started, so we just have to try not to get impatient.”

But Gachassin said the expansion project, part of the 2011 decision to keep the tournament in Paris instead of moving it to the suburbs, was critical.

“To save the tournament, we have to be able to make this project a reality,” Gachassin said. “By save it, I mean that without this project, we’re going to be in competition with other countries who want to do the same thing. I know we are being threatened by certain regions of the world like Asia, or a Qatar, who has lots of money and want to build big stadiums. But there won’t be the soul and the history, just lots of money.”

It seems far-fetched to imagine the French Open losing its Grand Slam status in the near future no matter how many grand courts are built in emerging or mature markets. But it is certainly possible to imagine it slipping to last place in the Grand Slam pecking order with the Australian Open rising, and the United States Open recently mending fences with the players with a huge pay raise and then completing a new television agreement with ESPN worth a reported $75 million annually.

“All the Grand Slam events have a different personality and culture,” Ysern said. “And though we are, so to speak, in competition, because we don’t resemble each other, we don’t need to worry if in one area we’ll be a bit behind the others: if the Americans have a bit more means than us. I think what’s important is to maintain a real difference with the other tournaments, the Masters 1000s above all.”

Masters 1000 events are the regular tour’s top events. For now only two have retractable roofs: Madrid and Shanghai. But few venues can go from chic to refugee camp as quickly as Roland Garros in the rain, where the lack of cover and wide walkways can make much of the site feel like a Métro car at rush hour with the added obstacle of open umbrellas. Even when it doesn’t rain, there is clearly an elbow-room issue.

Five more years without a roof seems rather a long time to remain vulnerable in a hyper-competitive industry, although the French Open is not the only Grand Slam event in this predicament. The United States Open’s leadership has announced its desire to put a roof over Arthur Ashe Stadium but has yet to commit to a project, in part because of the engineering challenges posed by the existing stadium and the site.

The French have their plan, which they introduced in full on Saturday, and it will essentially rebuild the Chatrier court on the existing foundations, giving it a markedly sleeker and more modern look. To manage the construction while staging the tournament each year without a break, the French will have to work section by section in 10-month phases.

The goal is not merely to rebuild a structure that can support a roof, which, like Wimbledon’s over Centre Court, will be of the unfolding variety. The French federation’s goal is also to modernize facilities.

Nostalgic tennis types have had a rough go of late. The casualties have included Wimbledon’s atmospheric Courts 1 and 2. Now, as part of the proposed expansion and beautification plan, Roland Garros is scheduled to lose the round and raucous Court 1, known as the Bullring, and also its own Court 2, a holdover from the stadium’s early years that is short on space but long on character and quirk.

‘'It’s true,'’ Ysern said. ‘'But for this project to work we have to get rid of it. And when we do improve the site, we are going to do as little as we can and try to keep the soul and the spirit of the place. That’s the most important thing.'’

Essentially a narrow triangle, Roland Garros has long been hemmed in on both its long sides, with the Bois de Boulogne to the north and the city of Boulogne-Billancourt to the south. But if it does succeed in expanding east into the botanical gardens, the result could be stunning.

There has never been a tennis court like the one they are proposing to build in the gardens: sunken below ground level with greenhouses surrounding it on all four sides. The route from the existing tournament site to that court would take spectators down a walkway flanked by elegant, stone-faced buildings.

But there is ecological opposition and other opposition, and the initial project was rejected by an administrative court in Paris in February, which cited the gardens’ status as “a historical monument” and noted that the fee being paid by the French federation to the city was insufficient.

The city of Paris, which owns the land, and the federation filed an appeal, but concurrently reached a new agreement in April, approved by Paris legislators, in which the fee was increased and the length of the agreement cut from 99 years to 50. It remains unclear whether that, too, will be blocked.

But Ysern said the intent was to apply for building permits and break ground later this year, with construction in the botanical gardens not starting until 2015.

“I’m confident,” Ysern said. “First and foremost because the project is something that is important for the country, and I think the people in authority are aware of that.”

The cost of the project, according to the federation, would be 340 million euros (about $437 million): 20 million from the city of Paris and 320 million from the federation. That burden explains why Ysern is so eager to preserve the option of selling some of the media rights to pay-television networks when the federation’s deal with France Televisions expires this year. Valérie Fourneyron, the country’s minister of sports, told the French newspaper Journal du Dimanche last week that she wanted the entire tournament to remain on free TV even though existing French law only mandates that the men’s and women’s singles final be broadcast.

“We are financing this almost entirely on our own,” Ysern said in his chair, looking as if he had just absorbed another blow. “And then they want to keep us from going out and getting what we need.”
688 2013-05-29 A light, sweet soup that makes good use of spring’s tender vegetables....
689 2013-05-29 Just as PayPal revolutionized how people shop online, making it possible to buy a microwave oven or concert tickets with the click of a button, Liberty Reserve sought to create a similarly convenient way for criminals to make financial transactions, law enforcement officials said.

The charges detailed a complicated system designed to allow people to move sums large and small around the world with virtual anonymity, according to an indictment, which was unsealed in federal court in Manhattan.

“As alleged, the only liberty that Liberty Reserve gave many of its users was the freedom to commit crimes — the coin of its realm was anonymity, and it became a popular hub for fraudsters, hackers and traffickers,” Mr. Bharara said at the news conference, where officials from the Justice and Treasury Departments, as well as the Secret Service and Homeland Security Investigations, also spoke. “The global enforcement action we announce today is an important step toward reining in the ‘Wild West’ of illicit Internet banking. As crime goes increasingly global, the long arm of the law has to get even longer, and in this case, it encircled the earth.”

Liberty Reserve surfaced as a preferred vehicle to transfer money between parties in a number of recent high-profile cybercrimes, including the indictment of eight New Yorkers accused of helping to loot $45 million from bank machines in 27 countries, officials said.

Liberty Reserve was incorporated in Costa Rica in 2006 by Arthur Budovsky, who renounced his United States citizenship in 2011, and was arrested in Spain on Friday. He was among seven people charged in the case; five of them were under arrest, while two remained at large in Costa Rica. All were charged with conspiracy to commit money laundering, conspiracy to operate an unlicensed money-transmitting business, and operating an unlicensed money-transmitting business. The money laundering count carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison, and the other two charges carry a maximum of 5 years each.

In addition to the criminal charges, five domain names were seized, including the one used by Liberty Reserve. Officials also seized or restricted the activity of 45 bank accounts.

The closing of Liberty Reserve last week seemed to have an immediate chilling effect on its customers, who were suddenly unable to access their funds and who posted anxious comments in underground forums, according to law enforcement officials. Mr. Bharara said the exchange’s clientele was largely made up of criminals, but he invited any legitimate users to contact his office to get their money back.

The charges outlined how the money transfer system operated, offering a glimpse into the murky world of online financial transactions where money bounces between accounts from Cyprus to New York in the blink of an eye.

To transfer money using Liberty Reserve, a user needed only to provide a name, address and date of birth. But users were not required to validate their identity.

“Accounts could therefore be opened easily using fictitious or anonymous identities,” the indictment states. Prosecutors cited “blatantly criminal monikers” used by Liberty Reserve clients, like “Russia Hackers.”

Essentially, all a customer needed to open an account was an e-mail address.

One undercover agent was able to register accounts under names like “Joe Bogus” and describe the purpose of the account as “for cocaine” without being questioned, officials said. That no-questions-asked verification system made Liberty Reserve the premier bank for cybercriminals, prosecutors said.

The case is significant, prosecutors said, because it attacks the financial infrastructure used by many cybercriminals in much the same way that drug-money-laundering prosecutions unravel the financial underpinnings of the narcotics trade.

Dismantling the Liberty Reserve operation was “critical because transnational criminal organizations can succeed only so long as they can funnel their illicit proceeds freely and without detection,” said James T. Hayes Jr., the special-agent-in-charge for Immigration and Customs Enforcement Homeland Security Investigations.

While Liberty Reserve was incorporated outside the United States, federal officials used a provision in the Patriot Act to target the organization and other financial institutions with whom they conducted business. It was the first time the provision had been used to prosecute a virtual currency provider, officials said.

Liberty Reserve did not take or make cash payments directly and instead used “third-party ‘exchangers,’ ” according to the indictment. These exchangers would take and make payments, and then credit or debit the Liberty Reserve account, allowing Liberty Reserve to avoid collecting any banking information on its clients and not leave a “centralized financial paper trail,” the indictment said.

The exchangers, the indictment said, “tended to be unlicensed money-transmitting businesses without significant government oversight or regulation, concentrated in Malaysia, Russia, Nigeria and Vietnam.”

The people who accepted Liberty Reserve’s currency were “overwhelmingly criminal in nature,” according to the indictment.

“They included, for example: traffickers of stolen credit card data and personal identity information; peddlers of various types of online Ponzi and get-rich-quick schemes; computer hackers for hire; unregulated gambling enterprises; and underground drug-dealing Web sites,” according to the indictment.

Despite the case against Liberty Reserve, security experts said, there were plenty of online payment systems that allow users to move money without verifying their identities.

“Organized crime and terrorist groups are now financing their operations through these anonymous payment systems,” said Tom Kellermann, a vice president at Trend Micro, a security firm. “The financial sector no longer has a monopoly on moving capital around the world.”
690 2013-05-29 The recent decline in gas prices is probably helping, as are increases in the stock market even though only about half of Americans own any equities. Perhaps most important, economists say, the growth in the value of the existing housing stock means that homeowners around the country are finally feeling richer, and that so-called wealth effect is probably making consumers loosen their purse strings a bit.

The positive impact of rising home values and the appreciating stock market is expected to offset at least a third of the fiscal tightening, according to Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomic Advisors.

The Case-Shiller 20-city composite index rose 10.9 percent over the last year, the biggest increase since April 2006. Several cities — Charlotte, N.C.; Los Angeles; Portland, Ore.; Seattle; and Tampa, Fla. — had their largest month-over-month gains in more than seven years.

Stock markets rose on the news, with the S.& P. 500-stock index up 10.46, or 0.63 percent, at 1,660.06 and the Dow up 106.29, or 0.69 percent, at 15,409.39 at the close on Tuesday. The Nasdaq was up 29.74, or 0.86 percent, at 3,488.89. The 10-year Treasury yield surged to 2.17 percent, its highest level in over a year.

The double-digit housing price increase is being driven by a confluence of factors.

For one, employers have added jobs for 31 straight months, so families are willing to start buying again. At the same time, the inventory of homes available on the market remains unusually low, thanks to little new building in the last few years and the large number of homeowners who are still underwater on their mortgages, making them reluctant to sell at a cash loss.

Now there are signs that higher prices are beginning to encourage some would-be sellers to come off the sidelines and place their homes on the market. That could be healthy for the market, countering concerns that housing might become overvalued again.

“You’ve had this dynamic that has been favorable for price increases now, but it’s also favorable for supply to come back on market, so that will mean some moderation in the pace of price increases,” said Daniel Silver, an economist at JPMorgan Chase, who said that he expected home prices to continue growing but not necessarily at the double-digit rate seen in May.

Construction has been picking up, too, in response to the rise in home prices, but builders cannot bring homes to the market as quickly as buyers want them.

“You really need new construction to get rid of the shortages, but it takes seven months between the time when they take out a permit and when the builder actually completes the home,” said Patrick Newport, an economist with IHS Global Insight.

Also pushing up home price measures are the declines in distressed sales — that is, foreclosures and short sales. Homes in foreclosure typically sell at bargain-basement prices, which depresses the overall price levels reported.

Now the composition of homes sold includes fewer sales at the depressed prices that bring down the overall numbers, said Michael Gapen, senior United States economist at Barclays Capital. The decline in distressed sales and so-called shadow inventory (homes that are behind on mortgage payments or in foreclosure, but not yet on the market) had been pushing up prices, Mr. Gapen said, but that upward pressure will fade over time.

Finally, home prices in many areas experienced severe, unsustainable plunges during the recession. The recent increases are coming off a very low base, so the growth looks strong even if the level of prices is still well below the peaks of the housing boom in the middle of the decade.

“Some of the areas with the largest declines in house prices during the crisis have shown the strongest increases in prices more recently,” Mr. Silver said. In Phoenix, for example, home values have risen 22.5 percent from a year earlier; Las Vegas posted a 20.6 percent gain.

Economists generally expect home prices to continue rising, particularly as the economy improves and more young people move out of their parents’ homes and into homes of their own. And many dismiss concerns of a potential bubble, not only because household formation is growing but also because housing prices remain well below their highs. Even after 10 straight months of year-over-year gains, the 20-city Case-Shiller composite price index is 28 percent below its previous peak in July 2006, which is probably a good thing.

“Talk of a house price bubble seems premature,” said Ed Stansfield, an economist at Capital Economics. “In relation to incomes, rents or their own past, U.S. home prices still look low.”

What’s more, credit is still hard to come by. The Federal Reserve has pushed interest rates down about as far as they can go, but many people who want to buy are still finding it difficult to get a home loan.

“We usually think of bubbles as being driven by extremely easy credit, with people borrowing more than the outstanding value of the house and making little to no down payment,” said Mr. Gapen. “That’s not the case with credit standards today.”
691 2013-05-29 Wall Street closed higher on Tuesday, fueled by new data showing a strengthening housing market in the United States and supportive comments from central banks around the world.

By the end of trading, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was 0.6 percent higher, and the Dow Jones industrial average gained 0.7 percent. The Nasdaq composite was 0.9 percent higher.

Markets were bolstered by a report that American home prices rose 1.1 percent in March, according to the Standard & Poor’s Case Schiller index. Analysts were looking for a rise of 1 percent. It was the biggest annual gain in nearly seven years, and a further sign that the strengthening housing recovery is providing a source of support for the economy.

Prices in the 20 cities jumped 10.9 percent year over year, beating expectations for 10.2 percent. It was the biggest increase since April 2006, just before prices peaked in the summer of that year.

Further encouraging the market, data showed consumer confidence was the strongest in over five years in May.
692 2013-05-30 Six third-round matches worth viewing during Thursday’s action at Roland Garros....
693 2013-05-30 “Les Misérables” will run at the Imperial Theater and begin previews on March 1, 2014, with an opening night of March 23....
694 2013-05-30 The treasury secretary sometimes seems more interested in shielding the administration from criticism than in pushing for strong rules....
695 2013-05-30 The potential exit of GE Capital’s chief shifts the spotlight onto succession for his boss, Jeffrey Immelt....
696 2013-05-30 “I think the biggest difference with like the juniors and teenagers at our age is that they’re a lot fitter and stronger than we are,” Kyrgios said of the veterans. “And yeah, jeez, tough question. I think belief is probably the main thing as well. I think today I was a bit overwhelmed first game. As soon as I walked on the court, he just seemed so professional. I think I was a bit focused on what he was doing rather than what I had to do out there.”

There have been some close calls: Novak Djokovic won the Australian Open at age 20 in 2008, and Juan Martín del Potro won the United States Open at 20 in 2009.

But Nadal remains the last teenager to win a men’s Grand Slam singles title, taking the first of his seven French Open titles in 2005. The last teen who even managed to push deep into the second week at a major was Kyrgios’s Australian compatriot Bernard Tomic, who reached the quarterfinals at Wimbledon in 2011 at age 18.

Meanwhile, the statistical evidence against prodigies doing prodigious things in men’s tennis keeps piling up.

Greg Sharko of the ATP Tour said that the average age of players in the top 100 in the men’s rankings has increased from 24.92 years in 2003 to 27.13 in 2012. Sharko said the average age of players in the men’s singles at the French Open has increased from 25.20 years in 2003 to 26.78 years this year.

What is remarkable is how steady the rise has been: The average age of the top 100 has increased every year without fail for the last decade.

At the moment, there is not one teenager in the top 100. The three who made it into the 128-player draw did so through wildcards or qualifying.

Kyrgios, who received a wildcard through Tennis Australia’s reciprocal agreement with the French Tennis Federation, is ranked 262 and still plans to play in the junior tournament here.

Jiri Vesely, a 19-year-old Czech who qualified, is ranked 127th. Pouille, a solidly built 19-year-old Loon-Plage, France who received a wild card, is ranked 324.

“I see two reasons for all this,” said Fabrice Santoro, the retired French player who had plenty of tour success as a teenager. “The first reason is that the average level of play is higher now than ever and so for a young guy to get ranked 150 or 200 is harder than before.

The other reason, which is the principal reason, is that today the physical level of the top players is so high that you just can’t have this level when you are 19. You have to work for this kind of level for years, and in my view you can’t come into a Grand Slam at that age and beat David Ferrer the Wednesday in the quarters, Rafa Nadal in the semis on the Friday and Novak Djokovic on the Sunday.

“You’re dead if you do that, just dead,” Santoro said, dragging out the final “d” for emphasis. “Even to win one of those matches is a colossal effort.”

Patrice Dominguez, the former national technical director for the French Tennis Federation, said that in the 2000s when the French analyzed player development their conclusion was that anyone who was not in the top 100 by age 20 would have no chance to make the top 10.

“We did the research; there wasn’t anyone, it did not exist,” Dominguez said. “Now I really believe that is no longer true. Players are coming to the fore later, at 23 or 24.”

One suspects that the push to increase rewards for rank-and-file players, which has seen all four of the Grand Slam tournaments dramatically increase prize money for early-round losers, will only increase career lengths for veteran players who might not once have seen the economic sense in continuing.

“You can play longer,” Dominguez said. “But there is also the injury issue. You are injured for two and a half years out of 10 years in tennis.”

But that extra money also pays for what once was only available to the stars: fitness trainers, physiotherapists, sophisticated medical advice. That world has already been democratized even if no one outside the top 10 can match the means of Roger Federer, Novak Djokovic, Rafael Nadal and Andy Murray when it comes to a support structure.

The barriers to youth do not exist to the same degree in the women’s game, where there were 15 teenagers in the French Open singles draw, including the 16-year-old Donna Vekic of Croatia and 17-year-old Ash Barty of Australia. But the only teen into the third round as of Thursday afternoon was Monica Puig, a 19-year-old from Puerto Rico.

But the average age of the women has been moving steadily upward as well. According to Kevin Fischer of the WTA, the average age of French Open singles players has rising by about one year per decade since 1993. The average was 22.56 years in 1993; 23.3 years in 2003 and 24.54 in 2013.

That is still more than two years younger than the men.

“All we have to do is say that the teens can’t do it, and there will be a new Wilander or Chang or Nadal who will come and win something at 17 or 18,” Dominguez said with a laugh.

“But overall there’s no question it’s much more difficult. The process of developing mentally and physically and psychologically is more complicated. But what I don’t think is a big problem is the technical side. You can have the technique you need to win a Grand Slam at that age.”

Pouille said he had seen big changes, however, from watching video of Nadal’s first French Open victory in 2005.

“There’s a world of difference in the level in my opinion,” he said. “I have the feeling he’s gotten better every year. To win a Slam now in your teens, unless you’re a magician, is awfully complicated.”

Pouille said it was not a question of self-belief, however, not a question of hearing that youth cannot be served and letting it affect the results on the court.

“No, no, no,” he said. “Because I’m someone who is very impatient, and if I could get it to go faster, believe me, I’m not going to hold back. When I went on the court against Dimitrov today, I wanted to win and I was definitely not telling myself, ‘Hey, I’m a bit young. If I lose it’s understandable. He has all the experience.’ Today I lost because he was better, not because of the age.”

Jim Courier, a French Open champion at age 20 in 1991, believes that the trend is clear but that the possibility for teenaged exceptions remains.

“I have no doubt it will happen again,” Courier said, “when a very special player comes along.”
697 2013-05-30 A Chinese meat producer’s $4.7 billion acquisition of Smithfield Foods is subject to a national security review, which is no picnic given American anxiety about China....
698 2013-05-30 Members of Generation X have some catching up to do to prepare for retirement....
699 2013-05-30 Switzerland, outside the European Union and the euro zone, has fared better than most during the Continent’s economic downturn. That has given it an opportunity to offer advice to its neighbors on the balance between austerity and growth....
700 2013-05-30 Stanford reported one of the highest admission yields this year, at 76.65 percent, surpassing many of the Ivy League institutions....
701 2013-05-30 A bill co-sponsored by eight Democrats and eight Republicans was introduced in the Senate last week to revise the Toxic Substances Control Act, which governs the regulation of chemicals used in consumer products and manufacturing processes. Almost everyone agrees that the law, enacted in 1976, is badly flawed because of the complexity, costs and delays it imposes on regulating chemicals.

Previous efforts to improve it have gone nowhere. The new bill, the Chemical Safety Improvement Act of 2013 — introduced by Senators Frank Lautenberg, a Democrat of New Jersey, and David Vitter, a Republican of Louisiana — is designed to break the logjam. It deserves to be passed because it would be a significant advance over the current law.

The bill has been endorsed by the centrist Environmental Defense Fund as a “policy and political breakthrough” that would give the Environmental Protection Agency the tools it needs to ensure the safety of chemicals in everyday use. The defense fund says the bill would require the E.P.A. to review the safety of all chemicals in commerce (the current law left the great majority of chemicals grandfathered in without evidence of safety) and would allow the agency to require safety tests without going through a prolonged rule-making process that can delay regulation inordinately.

The bill has also been endorsed by two former officials in the E.P.A. office that administers the law. Steve Owens, who served as assistant administrator for the agency’s Office of Chemical Safety and Pollution Prevention until November 2011, calls it “a major breakthrough.” And Charles Auer, a career scientist and senior official at the agency under George W. Bush, has praised the bill for potentially resolving the risk management issues that hobble the existing law.

The bill is strongly supported by industry trade groups and endorsed by the American Academy of Pediatrics. However, it is deemed unacceptable in its current form by the Natural Resources Defense Council, another centrist organization, and by the Environmental Working Group, a research and advocacy organization. Both believe it gives away too much to the chemical industry in exchange for only modest reforms. And both cite a lack of statutory deadlines for the E.P.A. to review chemicals and take appropriate action. The working group also finds the bill unacceptably weak in protecting infants, children and pregnant women from toxic chemicals.

Senator Barbara Boxer, a California Democrat who leads the Environment and Public Works Committee, which has jurisdiction, has indicated strong concerns of her own, including whether the bill would undercut California’s stronger chemical safety laws.
702 2013-05-30 Grindelwald stands as a stark example of what is happening these days to Switzerland’s glaciers, and there are more than a hundred, large and small. As the Lower Grindelwald Glacier shrank, its ice no longer buttressed the east wall of the Eiger, a 13,025-foot mountain that is part of the ring south of Grindelwald. Moreover, the warming reduces the effect of permafrost that once acted as a sort of glue binding together the mass of the mountains. On that day in 2006, a chunk of the Eiger amounting to about 900,000 cubic yards fell from the east face, causing the cloud of rock dust that startled Mr. Bomio and his friends.

Since 1997, Ruth Meier has run the Hotel Gletscherschlucht (the name means glacier gorge), with 6 rooms and 18 beds, at a point where water from the melting lower glacier runs out of a steep and narrow gorge. Well into the 20th century, the glacier extended clear through the gorge, which is about three-fifths of a mile long, and until about World War I, ice blocks were carved out of it for use in cooling in restaurants and kitchens as far afield as Paris. Where her hotel stands a field kitchen once fed the workmen who hacked the ice.

But now a large lake of melted glacial water has formed above the gorge. To avoid potential flooding that would threaten the village below, Ms. Meier said, a $15 million tunnel, more than a mile long, was completed in 2010 to channel excess water when the lake swells in the summer. Before that was done, she said, summer floodwaters regularly pushed gigantic ice blocks down the gorge.

“In July and August, it sounded like battle tanks coming down,” she said, sipping mineral water. “You could hear the stones rolling.” Floodwaters forced their way through the narrowest parts of the gorge, about 30 feet across, “like water gushing from a garden hose,” she said.

Why build a hotel at such a delicate spot? “To be at the pulse,” Ms. Meier answered. “We’re at the pulse of the eternal ice.”

Well, not so eternal any more. Over the past century or so, glaciers like those around Grindelwald have receded by about 650 feet, said Hans-Rudolf Keusen, a geologist whose company, Geotest, helped design the overflow tunnel. “Since 1980 it has been very rapid,” Mr. Keusen said. “In the last 30 years the average temperature in the Alps has risen by one and a half degrees.”

For Alpine towns like Grindelwald, the changes are challenging. As the glaciers recede, they leave masses of rock and sediment — moraines — on their edges. In 2011, rock and snow came down on the upper glacier, as sides of a mountain became unstable without the supporting pressure of the ice. A year before the Eiger collapsed, in 2005, a section of a high Alpine meadow fell, leaving a popular restaurant, the Stieregg, hanging precariously on the edge. Ms. Meier’s mother-in-law recalled herding sheep there as a girl.

Tourism long ago supplanted agriculture as the driver of the local economy. Every year, about 800,000 visitors from all over Europe, but also from America and increasingly Asia, board trains to climb from the town center to the Jungfraujoch, a saddle between two peaks over 13,000 feet known as “the top of Europe,” to enjoy the view.

The first tourists, English aristocrats, came in the 18th century. The first hotel opened in 1820; the first skiers came in 1891. Tourism now amounts to “more than 80 percent of the economy,” said Bruno Hauswirth, a marketing expert who manages the local tourism agency.

“It’s not just tourism; it’s a cross section,” he said. “Construction, financial services, retail.” Outside his office, backhoes were excavating for a $30 million shopping area in the village center.

Mr. Hauswirth, 45, who skied and taught skiing in North America, Japan and New Zealand before returning to his native Grindelwald, sees the changes in the mountains as an opportunity, not just as a threat. “You learn to live with it,” he said. The risks “are no more than in other areas of the Alps,” he said, adding, “People here are used to living with the mountains; it’s natural.”

Tour guides like Mr. Bomio are even profiting from the results of global warming, organizing “warming tours” to explain its effects using local developments as examples.

“Here you can visualize it; you can see it and feel it,”’ Mr. Hauswirth said. “You can see how we are reacting to it.”

The gorge overflow tunnel is not the only reaction. Hiking trails are being moved to avoid areas at risk, said Herbert Zurbrügg, Grindelwald’s town secretary. Across the mountains, Mr. Zurbrügg said, the authorities are installing radar devices to track movements in the landscape so that the few tourist destinations that are near glaciers, like campsites, can be evacuated if necessary.

“I think we can say we have the situation under control,” Mr. Zurbrügg said. “There is no fear.” Most measures taken, to control the flow of meltwater or to monitor regions surrounding the glaciers, are well outside the inhabited parts of town, he said.

“We are in a fortunate situation,” he said. He paused, then added, “Yet, you never know.”
703 2013-05-30 Credit: Joshua Bright for The New York Times
704 2013-05-30 Matthew Lightner likes food with an element of surprise. As the executive chef of Atera, an 18-seat TriBeCa restaurant with two Michelin stars, he delights diners with a combination of foraged ingredients, technical innovation and unexpected presentations.

“It’s important when people dine that it be a rediscovery process,” Mr. Lightner said. “There’s a level of refinement that we push ourselves to, but there’s also a level of fun and playfulness that we want to have with our food.”

To set off his unconventional offerings, Mr. Lightner, 32, likes to use a wide variety of tableware, a practice that he suggested would work just as well at home. Even when it comes to the salt-and-pepper shakers, the most commonplace (and commonly overlooked) fixture on the dining table.

“Some are purely functional, some are almost like trinkets,” he said. “And others are interesting in different ways.”

In search of a collection of salt-and-pepper shakers, grinders and containers varied enough to suit a range of moods, Mr. Lightner began at Whisk in the Flatiron district, where he found the ceramic Butcher salt-and-pepper set by Brooklyn Rehab, decorated with diagrams of a cow and pig.
705 2013-05-30 In addition, she is in an indie pop band, Singtank, which she formed with her brother Alexandre de La Baume, 27. Their first album, “In Wonder,” was released last year, and a second EP is on its way. (Mr. Ronson helped write one of the tracks.)

“I think we’re in a generation where everybody does a few different things,” she said of her hyphenated résumé.

Still, Ms. de La Baume underplays her budding fame, especially when it comes to being pegged by some as a sexpot. With her flowing red hair, pale complexion and voluptuous pout, she has a kind of Gallic Scarlett Johansson quality. “I don’t really think of myself as someone sexy,” she said. “Because I really feel, and my husband actually says, I’m a 14-year-old boy stuck in a woman’s body.”

She grew up in Paris, down the street from the prestigious art school École des Beaux-Arts in Saint-Germain-des-Prés. Her mother modeled briefly and now works at the Fondation de la Vocation. Her father is a baron who worked in finance and now produces plays. It was a privileged childhood, enough so that Vanity Fair featured her and her brother in a Bruce Weber portfolio of heirs and heiresses.

She was a model child until she turned 13, she said. “I think it came with the discovery of boys, probably, and the discovery of hip-hop.” She was expelled from several schools and was sent to Notre-Dame Les Oiseaux, a Catholic boarding school outside Paris.

She finished high school and enrolled in the American Intercontinental University in London, graduating in 2006 with a degree in fine art. She also took theater workshops at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts, and in 2007 moved to New York for a few years to take acting classes from Susan Batson at Black Nexxus.

Her first break came in 2010, when she had a supporting role in “The Princess of Montpensier,” a period film by Bertrand Tavernier. “It was the first important part that I got,” she said.

Around that time, she was introduced to Mr. Ronson through mutual friends. “We had seen each other a few times before that, but I would say ‘Hello, goodbye’ and that’s it,” she said. “Love is, you know, about timing.”

They sealed their courtship with tattoos. They have fun together, she said. “We just want to hang out with each other all day long,” she said. “We wouldn’t want to work.”

The wedding, which took place almost two years ago in Aix-en-Provence, was catnip for British tabloids and French fashion publications like Purple magazine, with a guest list that included Kate Moss, Mario Testino and Giambattista Valli. “I was bridezilla,” she said. “We like transcended every superstitious element.”

The couple lives a glamorous life, mostly between London and Paris, but they also have a little place on Long Island in Amagansett. Both have family in New York, including Ms. de la Baume’s older half-sister, Irena Salina, and Mr. Ronson’s mother, Ann Dexter-Jones.

If she seems more settled these days, there’s still the lingering bad girl. For example, to land her vampire role, she met with Ms. Cassavetes in Paris one tipsy afternoon.

“We ended up smoking a pack of cigarettes and drinking two bottles of Champagne,” Ms. de La Baume said with a mischievous grin. “If only every audition could be like that.”
706 2013-05-30 The E.C.B. takes the pulse of the European financial system every six months, but the latest report, running 128 pages, has particular importance as the central bank prepares to become the supreme regulator of euro area lenders. The report also raised concerns about whether banks were systematically underestimating risk, and served as a reminder of the monumental task that lies ahead for the E.C.B. when it assumes its new powers next year.

A similarly dim snapshot of the state of the euro zone economy was issued Wednesday by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris. It warned of the dangers posed by weakly capitalized banks, a problem it said underlined the need for E.U. leaders to push through with a so-called banking union that would include centralized supervision of lenders.

The limited ability of European banks to absorb losses and the lack of a full banking union are potential threats to achieving a lasting stability, the O.E.C.D. said. Reduced tensions on financial markets seem to have dampened the desire to push for progress in creating joint banking mechanisms, it added.

“It is important to strengthen the capital of financial institutions so that they can withstand sovereign debt write-downs if rules prove insufficient to prevent sovereign crises,” the O.E.C.D. report said.

The O.E.C.D., based in Paris, predicted that gross domestic product in its 34 member countries, all of which have developed economies, would grow 1.2 percent this year, slightly below the 1.4 percent it forecast six months ago.

Unemployment, especially in Europe, remains a persistent problem contributing to the uneven pace of growth globally, the O.E.C.D. said. It warned European countries that failing to address the issue would undermine the progress made from the fiscal and structural adjustments that many countries have pushed through in recent years.

The E.C.B., as part of changes designed to avert future financial crises, will begin supervising the euro area banks sometime next year, depending on when changes in E.U. law are approved by the European Parliament. The E.C.B. has already begun preparing to assume the new powers.

The report issued Wednesday raised the question of whether the E.C.B. would be more willing than national regulators to require banks to confront problems like problem loans or other damaged assets. Many analysts say the euro area still has numerous so-called zombie banks, which are close to bankruptcy but have kept their losses hidden.

Mr. Micossi of Assonime said he expected the E.C.B. to be an aggressive regulator. But the central bank will need time to hire the necessary staff and will face resistance from national regulators reluctant to give up power.

“We can expect the E.C.B. in due course to fully play its role,” Mr. Micossi said by telephone from Rome. “My impression is this will not happen very fast, however.”

“National oversight structures are very resistant, and they will renounce as little power as they can,” he said.

Over all, the E.C.B. was somewhat more upbeat about the euro area’s financial system than it was in its last review, in December. There is less concern that governments will default on their debt, the E.C.B. said, and banks in countries like Spain and Greece are having an easier time attracting deposits and raising funds.

“Euro area systemic stress is at its lowest point in two years,” the E.C.B. said in the report.

But the E.C.B. suggested that one reason for the lower stress was that, with official interest rates at record lows, investors were hunting for better returns and becoming more willing to buy bonds of countries like Italy, Spain and Portugal. Those countries’ borrowing rates could soar again if anything happens to unsettle investors, including political turmoil.

The central bank and O.E.C.D. reports could also sharpen the debate about what, if anything, policy makers could do to stimulate lending in the most troubled countries.

Eckhard Wurzel, an economist with the O.E.C.D., predicted that if the 17 euro zone countries maintained their pace at overhauling the weaker economies, and continued to strengthen policies at the E.U. level, including implementing a banking union, a real turnaround could be seen as early as 2015.

‘‘We are on the edge of stabilizing the sovereign debt,’’ Mr. Wurzel said. ‘‘But there needs to be more at the E.U. level.’’ Without changes within the wider euro zone, he said, long-term prospects for growth would be unattainable.

Meanwhile, lending to individuals and businesses in the euro zone continued to decline, according to figures reported separately Wednesday by the central bank.

The E.C.B. repeated that it was looking at ways to restart the market for asset-backed securities, bundles of loans that are sold to investors. By selling loans they have issued, banks raise money to issue more loans.

But the E.C.B. repeated calls for governments and bankers to do more. E.C.B. action “cannot — and indeed should not — replace measures in both the public and private sectors to address underlying vulnerabilities in balance sheets of both banks and sovereigns,” the central bank said.

There has been speculation that the E.C.B. might soon begin charging banks interest to park money at the central bank, in order to induce them to lend the excess cash instead. Mr. Constâncio said Wednesday that the E.C.B. had been intensively analyzing the consequences of a so-called negative deposit rate but had not made a decision.

There is very little precedent for such a policy, and the effects are difficult to predict. Mr. Constâncio said a negative rate in Denmark caused banks to raise the interest rates they charged customers, to cover the cost of interest paid to the central bank. Such a result would be the opposite of what the E.C.B. is trying to achieve.

“It’s a very difficult issue to assess,” Mr. Constâncio said.

One problem for European banks, the E.C.B. said, is that outsiders still have doubts on whether they have been straightforward about how much risk they have on their books.

“A growing chorus of analysts, investors and regulators have expressed concern about the murkiness of banks’ internal models” for measuring risk, the E.C.B. report said.

The bank referred to studies showing a huge variance in the way banks estimate potential losses from loans, derivatives or other business activities. The studies suggest that the banks’ methods ‘'might not in all cases be an accurate gauge of the true riskiness of the portfolios of financial institutions.”

Mr. Constâncio said that when the E.C.B. took over bank supervision, the discrepancies were something it “will have to look into.”
707 2013-05-30 Orlando City and Charleston, currently the first- and second-place teams in the United Soccer Leagues Pro division (the third tier in the U.S. Soccer pyramid) scored upsets over teams from Major League Soccer Tuesday night in the third round of the 100th edition of the U.S. Open Cup tournament.

Nine of 16 M.L.S. teams based in the United States entered the tournament in the third round, with another slate of games scheduled for Wednesday night, including the Red Bulls’ match against visiting Reading United (an amateur team in the Premier Development League) at Red Bull Arena in Harrison, N.J. (The match will be streamed live at newyorkredbulls.com.)

In Orlando, Fla., on Tuesday, Dom Dwyer scored two goals as Orlando City ousted the visiting Colorado Rapids, 3-1. And in Charleston, S.C., the Battery defeated visiting San Jose, 1-0, on a goal in the 74th minute by the team captain Colin Falvey.

The other seven M.L.S. clubs all advanced to the fourth round of the tournament, which is officially called the Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup:

■ D.C. United, which is stuck in a 10-game league winless streak, went on the road and was extended to extra time and then penalty kicks before defeating the Richmond Kickers, 4-2, in the shootout. United played the final minutes of the 120-minute game with nine men after Chris Korb was sent off for his second yellow card and Carlos Ruiz, a substitute, was shown a straight red in added time.

■ Dallas, at the other end of the M.L.S. standings from D.C. United, traveled to South Florida and defeated the North American Soccer League’s Ft. Lauderdale Strikers, 2-0. Dallas received second-half goals by Blaz Perez and Matt Hedges.
708 2013-05-30 Wall Street’s recent passion for high-dividend stocks seems to be fading.

The stock market closed lower on Wednesday, led by the same industry groups that had the biggest gains early in the year: rich dividend payers like power utilities and makers of consumer staples.

Rising bond yields have been an important factor behind that shift.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury note is near the highest it has been in 13 months after a sharp increase on Tuesday. That is giving investors who want steady income an alternative to dividend-rich stocks. Investors piled into those stocks at the beginning of the year, when bond yields were close to historic lows.

More broadly, after this year’s powerful bull run — the Dow Jones industrial average is up 16.8 percent, the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 15.6 percent — investors may be running out of reasons to keep plowing money into the stock market.

“There’s a vacuum of catalysts to continue to push,” said Sam Stovall, chief United States equity strategist for S&P Capital IQ. Now, Mr. Stovall said, investors are wondering: “Well, should I take some profits and sit on the sidelines and then get back in?”

Mr. Stovall noted that S.& P. 500 has had a temporary pullback of at least 5 percent every year since the end of the World War II, which has not happened yet in 2013.
709 2013-05-30 GENEVA — The United Nations Human Rights Council overwhelmingly passed a resolution on Wednesday that calls for an immediate end to fighting around Qusayr, a strategic Syrian town, and condemns the intervention of foreign combatants on the government’s side in the Syrian civil war.

Russia spoke out sharply against the resolution, which was co-sponsored by the United States, laying bare their deep divisions over the Syrian conflict even as they try to convene a conference in Geneva to broker an end to the bloodshed.

The 47-member council passed the resolution by a vote of 36 to 1, with eight abstentions and two absentees. The measure also condemns the use of ballistic missiles and other heavy weapons by the Syrian Army and allied militias in the assault on Qusayr, resulting in heavy civilian casualties.

The resolution, also co-sponsored by Turkey and Qatar, criticizes the presence of foreign combatants supporting President Bashar al-Assad — a reference to Hezbollah, the militant Lebanese militant Shiite group — warning that its involvement poses a serious threat to regional stability.

In comments to reporters before the debate on the resolution began, Eileen Chamberlain Donahoe, the United States ambassador to the Human Rights Council, said the resolution aimed to tell the Assad regime and its proxies that they would be held accountable for human rights violations. Recent Syrian airstrikes and bombardments of Qusayr have reportedly killed 183 civilians, she said.
710 2013-05-31 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
711 2013-05-31 The worlds of culture and style stretch far and wide in the latest issue of T....
712 2013-05-31 Now that’s a sentence I bet you never expected to read. Certainly, I never expected to write it. Having done so, I have to admit it was kind of fun, what with the quintuple alliteration and the promise of a musical concept so high that it feels stoned out of its mind.

But that, I’m afraid, accounts for most of the pleasure I derived from “The Giacomo Variations,” the haphazard hybrid of a show occupying City Center this weekend, with John Malkovich as its distracted-seeming star. This improbable production is defined by its creators as “a chamber opera play.” But those of who us who wear our brows a bit lower, as we tend to on Broadway, might prefer to call it a jukebox musical, albeit with a classical playlist.

The Giacomo of these variations is Giacomo Casanova, the 18th-century polymath whose name became a byword for he who sleeps with everything in skirts (and occasionally pants). Written and directed by Michael Sturminger, with music overseen by Martin Haselböck, “The Giacomo Variations” finds that old libertine (Mr. Malkovich) toward the lonely end of an exceedingly full life, writing the memoirs that would guarantee his immortality. Needless to say, he looks back in lust.

Just as “Mamma Mia!” shoehorns in the songs of the Swedish pop group Abba to annotate the convolutions of a far-fetched plot, so does “The Giacomo Variations” use the hits of the platinum songwriting team Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and Lorenzo Da Ponte, the librettist on some of Mozart’s most famous operas. As performed here by the Orchester Wiener Akademie and the young opera singers Daniel Schmutzhard and Sophie Klussmann, these numbers, according to Mr. Sturminger’s program notes, “create a very special kind of entry to Mozart’s fantastic opera scenes, even for people who have no regular interest in classical music.”

Mamma mia, indeed, or should I say, “O dio!,” in the manner of Da Ponte’s love-fraught characters. You’ll meet a lot of those folks during the two and a half hours of “The Giacomo Variations,” though sometimes their names have been changed to match those in the memories being summoned by Giacomo. For example, when he recalls an encounter with a lovely girl who was disguised as a castrato, up pops Ms. Klussmann in breeches to deliver “Non so più,” the first aria sung by the impish page Cherubino, the trousers role in “The Marriage of Figaro.”
713 2013-05-31 The success or failure of efforts to overhaul the money market fund industry depends in large part on how much power can be exerted by a regulatory body created under Dodd-Frank, the author writes....
714 2013-05-31 Goldman Sachs and Glenn Hadden, one of Wall Street’s top traders, have been fined by the CME Group over a Treasury futures trade in 2008. Mr. Hadden also faces a 10-day suspension....
715 2013-05-31 Peter Lattman on Jimmy Connors, Anthony Gottlieb on Jewish humor, and more....
716 2013-05-31 A federal appeals court vacated a 2011 jury verdict clearing Citigroup of any wrongdoing over its role in the sale of EMI to Guy Hands’s private equity firm, Terra Firma Capital Partners....
717 2013-05-31 Reducing corporate taxes can be offset by raising the tax rates on dividends, and the tax system can be made more progressive in the process....
718 2013-05-31 The consortium of Chinese firms that has agreed to buy the American International Group’s airplane leasing division missed a deposit payment, threatening to unwind the multibillion-dollar transaction....
719 2013-05-31 Stanford reported one of the highest admission yields this year, at 76.65 percent, surpassing many of the Ivy League institutions....
720 2013-05-31 On Thursday, New Yorkers in Brooklyn rallied to the challenge of the area’s first hot day of the season. Eli Belizaire, in Park Slope, tackled an ice cream cone. John Loftin sold cold water at the intersection of Kings Highway and Remson Avenue ...
721 2013-05-31 The infusion of cash from the PAC reflects broader anxieties coursing through New York’s business community as Mr. Bloomberg prepares to leave City Hall after 12 years. The mayoral race has been marked by sharp questions about whether the candidates, especially those in the Democratic primary, are committed to building on the Bloomberg legacy or to dismantling it.

During his tenure, the mayor has championed a pro-development agenda, pushing dozens of rezoning measures through the Council while investing billions of dollars to nurture commercial development and affordable housing — sometimes over the objections of neighborhood residents.

The PAC effort is being spearheaded by the Real Estate Board of New York, which includes some of the most influential figures and families in the industry, including , the developer of the World Trade Center, Richard S. LeFrak, Daniel R. Tishman, the Speyers and the Rudins.

In an interview, Steven Spinola, the president of the real estate board, called Mr. Bloomberg’s time in City Hall a “wonderful era” and said his organization’s PAC intended to support candidates who would advance a pro-jobs, pro-development agenda similar to Mr. Bloomberg’s.

A memorandum outlining the effort described the coming election as a “transformative campaign that will shape the city’s economic development atmosphere for years to come.”

The group plans to get involved in races in up to 25 Council districts throughout the city, backing candidates who support “an agenda focused on creating good jobs, building affordable housing and improving the city’s economy,” the memo says. It will pay for district-by-district polling, phone banks, direct mail, and television and radio advertisements to support candidates seen as being allied with the interests of business leaders and their supporters in labor.

The focus underscores the enormous role the Council — relatively weak in other areas of city government — has in overseeing development. It tends to defer to individual members’ views on whether to approve, modify or reject projects in their districts.

The effort signals the new electoral dynamic created by recent court rulings that allowed for a proliferation of independent expenditure groups, like so-called , in presidential and Congressional races around the country. In , campaign regulators are preparing for the participation of outside organizations and putting in place rules that require independent expenditure campaigns to disclose the source of their money and details of their spending.

City campaign regulators said on Thursday that they could not recall an independent expenditure campaign of the financial scale envisioned by the Jobs for New York PAC.

Given the sums the organization is prepared to spend, it could play a powerful role in the local campaigns. In 2009, sitting council members raised an average of $175,000, while challengers raised an average of $125,000, according to an analysis by Citizens Union of New York City, a government watchdog group.

Local races, however, can be unpredictable and hinge on longstanding relationships and grudges; whether an industry PAC can truly influence Council races on a citywide scale is an open question. The organizers have tapped Harry Giannoulis, Maggie Moran and Phil Singer, all veterans of city, state and federal campaigns, to oversee the organization’s activities.

The group said it planned to abide by state contribution limits — $150,000 from individuals and $5,000 from corporations.

The PAC also has the support of several unions: Mason Tenders’ District Council of Greater New York; UFCW Local 1500, which represents supermarket workers; and the New York City District Council of Carpenters.

Mike McGuire, the political director of the Mason Tenders said his members benefited from robust development. “It means jobs,” he said. “Unionized building trades are the last of the good blue-collar jobs in New York City.”

Mr. McGuire also noted that the turnover on the Council was coming at a critical time, suggesting that new members could affect a gradually improving economy, depending on their views. “A pro-development Council would be good for us,” he said.

In an interview, Susan Lerner, the executive director of Common Cause New York, a government watchdog group, indicated that the multimillion-dollar effort was a significant shift in city politics and might alter the nature of campaigning on the local level.

“The entire point of a City Council race is to reflect the needs of the neighborhoods in a district,” Ms. Lerner said. “This undercuts the neighborhood-based nature of a district and replaces neighborhood concerns with industry concerns.”
722 2013-05-31 Some Texas animal shelters have until January to comply with a new law that bans the use of compressed carbon monoxide to euthanize dogs and cats. Although the shelter operators say they welcome the change, they also say that adapting to the new requirements will be neither easy nor cheap.

Last month, Texas became the 21st state to ban the use of gas as a means of euthanasia for animals that have not been claimed or adopted. Now the only legal method is injection of pentobarbital.

Ethel Strother, president of the Texas Animal Control Association, said the use of carbon monoxide had waned.

“It’s just gotten to be a thing of the past,” she said.

She testified at a March committee hearing about how many Texas cities had already abandoned the use of gas.

According to a Texas Humane Legislation Network survey of 1,200 cities, 29 still used gas as the primary means of euthanizing animals as of April.
723 2013-05-31 While trying to stand up, the agent, who suffered a wound to his face from the table that required stitches, drew his gun and saw Mr. Todashev running at him with a metal pole, according to the official, adding that it might have been a broomstick.

The agent fired several shots at Mr. Todashev, striking him and knocking him backward. But Mr. Todashev again charged at the agent. The agent fired several more shots at Mr. Todashev, killing him. The detective in the room did not fire his weapon, the official said.

Under the F.B.I.’s guidelines, agents can fire a gun at someone if they feel the person is a threat to them or someone else. The episode is being reviewed by a team of F.B.I. investigators who specialize in shootings and by the district attorney in Orlando, the official said.

At the news conference in Moscow, the elder Mr. Todashev said his son had been interrogated for eight hours in his home on the day of the shooting because he had refused to report to an official building for what would have been a third round of questioning. He said that judging from his son’s wounds, he had been shot seven times, including once on the crown of his head.

“I want justice,” said Mr. Todashev, who works for the city government in Grozny, the capital of Chechnya. “I want this to be investigated, so that these people will be put on trial in America. These are not F.B.I. agents, they are bandits. They must be put on trial.”

Mr. Todashev, said the agents had focused exclusively on the Boston bombing the first time they questioned his son, and they raised the 2011 killings in subsequent conversations. He said his son was planning to fly to Russia on May 24 for a visit because he had received his American green card two months earlier and was now free to travel.

“Probably he was tired of these interrogations,” he said. “He said, ‘I am home; you should come to me.’ That kind of conversation took place. And they came to his home.”

Mr. Todashev, a father of 12, said his son was with a friend, Khusen Taramov, when the agents arrived. He said they had separated the two men and questioned Mr. Taramov outside, before releasing him after four hours. When Mr. Taramov asked about his friend, Mr. Todashev said, “They pushed him off, told him, ‘We’re going to be with him a long time.’ ” Mr. Taramov returned later to find the house surrounded by police officers and emergency vehicles.

“I have questions for the Americans,” said Zaurbek Sadakhanov, a lawyer who has worked with the Todashev family as well as the family of Mr. Tsarnaev and his brother, Dzhokhar, the other suspect in the Boston bombings. “Why was he questioned for the third time without a lawyer? Why wasn’t Ibragim’s questioning recorded on audio or videotape, seeing as he was being questioned without a lawyer? What was the need to shoot Ibragim seven times, when five fully equipped police officers with stun guns were against him?”

He also complained about the muted response of the Russian Foreign Ministry. The ministry often responds vocally to the treatment of Russian citizens by officials of foreign governments, but it has made no statement about Mr. Todashev’s shooting. Much of the news conference focused on the actions of United States law enforcement.

“We will never know whether Ibragim Todashev and Tamerlan Tsarnaev were criminals, because the investigation ends with their death,” Mr. Sadakhanov said. “If that’s what happens in American democracy, then I am against the export of that democracy to Russia.”

Mr. Todashev said Ibragim had graduated from a university in Chechnya and then traveled to the United States in 2008, hoping to improve his English. He said his son befriended the Tsarnaev brothers in Boston, but had moved to Florida two years ago. This relationship was of central interest to the agents who questioned Ibragim, Mr. Todashev said, adding that his son told them he did not believe the Tsarnaev brothers were guilty.

“He did not believe the Tsarnaevs did this,” he said. “He said they had been set up. These were his exact words.”

He said he hoped to receive an American visa so that he could retrieve his son’s body and take it back to Russia for burial. He said that he has so far received no account of his son’s death from American officials, and that he had received the photographs of his son’s corpse from a friend who had sent them to him electronically. The photographs were published Thursday on the Russian Web site Kavkazskaya Politika.
724 2013-05-31 Radiation dosage is measured in units known as sieverts. A cumulative dose of one sievert is thought to raise the risk of a fatal cancer by about five percentage points.

During Curiosity’s 253-day, 350-million-mile trip, the rover absorbed about half a sievert — an average of 1.8 thousandths of a sievert per day, mostly from cosmic rays. “That could be higher under different circumstances,” Dr. Zeitlin said. The instrument measured radiation from only five solar storms, all modest.

NASA is not planning to send people to Mars until the 2030s, but with current technology, it would take six months to get there and six months to return to Earth. As such, astronauts would absorb about two-thirds of a sievert. By contrast, a person on Earth receives less than a thousandth of a sievert per year from outer space, Dr. Zeitlin said. Americans absorb a few thousandths of a sievert per year, mostly from X-rays and CT scans — still much less than from a Mars trip.

According to the National Cancer Institute, the lifetime risk of dying from cancer is 21 percent; the two-thirds of a sievert from a round-trip mission to Mars would raise that risk by three percentage points, to 24 percent.

The measurements largely agree with earlier estimates and measurements. “These are confirmatory measurements that will help us refine our models,” said Edward J. Semones, the spaceflight radiation health officer at NASA’s Johnson Space Center in Houston.

NASA’s standards currently limit the excess cancer risk for its astronauts to three percentage points.

“We currently would exceed our acceptable limits,” Dr. Semones said.

Advocates for a human mission to Mars say the radiation risk is overblown. “What it shows is that the cosmic ray dose on a Mars mission is not a show-stopper,” Robert Zubrin, founder and president of the Mars Society, said about the new data.

“This is modest proportion of overall risk,” he added. “Therefore, what it means is that we don’t need to delay a humans-to-Mars program until we have a miraculous advanced propulsion system that can get us there faster.”

A spacecraft malfunction during the mission would pose a much greater risk to the astronauts than the radiation, Dr. Zubrin said.

The radiation risk has also not deterred plans by a private group, the Inspiration Mars Foundation, to launch a married couple on a 501-day flyby of Mars in January 2018.

“Those numbers are less than the risk a lot of people take in sports,” said Taber MacCallum, the chief technology officer for the foundation. “They don’t seem that unreasonable to me.”

Another private group, Mars One, which hopes to establish a settlement on Mars in the 2020s, said it had already received thousands of applications.
725 2013-05-31 Seattle also made the cross-country trip, traveling to Florida to face the N.A.S.L. Tampa Bay Rowdies and dropping a 1-0 decision. The Sounders won the Open Cup in 2009, ’10 and ’11 and lost to Kansas City in last year’s final. Tampa Bay took a 1-0 lead in the 75th minute when Georgi Hristov tapped in a rebound off goalkeeper Marcus Hahnemann. Seattle had a chance to tie the match when Jordan Gafa handled the ball on the goal line and got a red card in the 85th. But Obafemi Martins’s penalty kick was saved by Tampa Bay goalkeeper Diego Restrepo. The Rowdies will play at Portland.

“It was an amazing effort by the guys,” Coach Ricky Hill told the club’s Web site. “We came out and gave it our all tonight and it showed on the pitch. I am happy for our players, but I am also very happy for our fans who were supporting us along the way.” He added: “We knew we would have our chances. Luckily Georgi was on the end of that rebound to push the ball in the net. Our defense was very solid today and we were able to withstand the final push from the Sounders. All credit to the players for showing everyone why they deserved to win.”

■ The Red Bulls ousted Reading United of the Premier Development League, 2-0, on second-half goals by Fabian Espindola and Lloyd Sam. Thierry Henry did not dress for the match and the Red Bulls’ other designated player, Tim Cahill, is away on international duty with the Australian national team. Defender Roy Miller will leave to join Costa Rica after Saturday’s match against visiting Vancouver. The Red Bulls will play at New England (at Harvard Stadium) in the next round.

“I thought our players were a bit frustrated on the first half because of what we expected, they were organized, they sat back and waited for us to make mistakes and we got frustrated, and we made six or seven passes and the seventh one was the wrong one and they could’ve made us pay once or twice,” Red Bulls Coach Mike Petke said. “It was good defending on the counterattack. It was better in the second half, once we got the first goal it opened things up and I was very happy with the way we possessed the game and killed it off with the second goal.”

■ In Charlotte, N.C., Mike Magee, who was traded to the Fire for Robbie Rogers, scored his first goal for his hometown club in a 2-0 victory over the U.S.L. Pro Eagles. The Fire will host Columbus in the next round.

■ In an all-Ohio matchup, visiting Dayton went down to 10 men when Brock Granger was the last defender and brought down Eddie Gaven in the 14th minute. Dayton kept the match scoreless in the first half, fell behind on a goal by Gaven, tied the match on a goal by Shane Smith in the 78th minute, but succumbed when Justin Meram scored in the 84th minute.

■ After losing two straight league games at home, the Dynamo dispatched the P.D.L. Tucson club, 2-0, on goals by Alex Dixon and Giles Barnes. The next round will bring an all-Texas match with Houston playing at Dallas.

■ Frederic Piquionne, the Timbers’ 34-year-old striker, scored four goals, all in the first half, in a 5-1 shellacking of Wilmington of U.S.L. Pro.
726 2013-05-31 The stock market rose on Thursday after a pair of lackluster economic reports raised expectations that the Federal Reserve would continue to bolster the economy with its stimulus program.

Unemployment claims rose and an initial estimate of first-quarter economic growth was revised slightly lower. That suggests that the economy may need more time to recover from its troubles and that the Fed will keep up its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases.

“The big worry that’s been hitting the market lately, that the Fed might step back prematurely, might be fading a little today on the idea that the economy does need a bit more support,” Jeffrey Kleintop, chief market strategist at LPL Financial, said.

The rise in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index was led by banking and insurance stocks, which gained 1.1 percent. Among individual bank stocks, Bank of America rose to its highest in more than two years. JPMorgan also climbed.

Banks and other stocks that stand to benefit the most from an improving economy have surged this week, a change from earlier in the year when investors favored dividend-rich stocks like utilities. Now investors are selling such stocks and buying so-called growth stocks. The S.& P.’s financial index is up 2.1 percent this week; its utilities index is down 2.5 percent.
727 2013-05-31 It was unclear why Al-Manar said before the broadcast that Mr. Assad had spoken about the missile system when it was not directly mentioned in the televised interview. Al-Manar later said it mischaracterized what Mr. Assad had said. But American and Israeli officials have been pressing Russia to defer the S-300 system delivery to Syria, and there were other indications that the paraphrased comments may have been a premature boast or bluff.

Israeli officials and Western diplomats in the region said they did not believe such a system had yet arrived in Syria, with some saying any delivery could be at least a few weeks away. Even so, the possibility presented a new risk that the Syrian war could expand into a broader conflict.

“We’re in stormy waters indeed,” said Jonathan Spyer, a senior research fellow at the Interdisciplinary Center in Herzliya, Israel. “Somebody or other has to not do what they have openly claimed they would do. Somebody has to lose serious face, and governments don’t like to lose face at the moment of serious confrontation.”

Mr. Assad spent considerable time in the interview to warn Israel, which attacked what it suspected were weapons caches in Syria this month that the Israelis suspected were bound for Hezbollah fighters in Lebanon.

“We will retaliate for any Israeli aggression next time,” Mr. Assad said. He also suggested the possibility of renewed fighting in the Golan Heights, the disputed border area occupied by Israel, which has been largely quiet for more than 40 years.

“In fact, there is clear popular pressure to open the Golan front to resistance,” Mr. Assad said. The Syrian government, he said, had received “many Arab delegations wanting to know how young people might be enrolled to come and fight Israel.”

Ehud Yaari, an Israel-based fellow of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said Mr. Assad’s comments on the Golan were worrisome in the context of other recent statements from Syria, particularly its assertion that Israel had violated the 1974 agreement that has allowed for the calm along the cease-fire line.

“It’s a very sensitive, explosive situation being created by the new level of rhetoric,” Mr. Yaari said. “You ask yourself whether the rhetoric is not going to lead to actions at some point.”

Mr. Assad reiterated the Syrian government’s intention to attend a United Nations peace conference on Syria, which Russia and the United States have been seeking to convene in Geneva in coming weeks despite their own differences over the conflict. But he said any agreements that might result from such a conference would have to be approved by Syrians in a referendum.

Even as Mr. Assad’s interview was broadcast, fissures within the Syrian opposition widened, with rebel military commanders demanding a significant new role in the main exile organization.

The disparity underscored the fact that Mr. Assad appeared to be consolidating his position, buttressed on both military and political fronts by Russia, Iran and Hezbollah, while the Western-backed opposition stumbled toward ever more serious disarray.

All week, the 63-member Syrian Coalition, the main rebel group, has been entangled anew in petty disputes over how many seats to add. Its leadership announced Thursday that it would boycott the peace conference. It attributed the boycott to Iranian and Hezbollah interference in Syria, but analysts saw it as a position born of weakness and the inability to forge a strong, united bargaining front.

“This is a low point,” said Amr al-Azm, a Syrian-born history professor at Shawnee State University in Ohio who tracks the opposition. “Unlike earlier screaming matches, you have a bad military situation on the ground and Geneva is looming and the opposition has nothing to play. This is as bad as it gets.”

Both the United States and Russia face difficult prospects in getting the Geneva talks even to begin. Representatives of the organizers are expected to meet in Geneva on June 5 to discuss details, including a concrete date.

Moscow faces the challenge of getting Mr. Assad to send a strong enough delegation to make real decisions about a cease-fire and a political transition — essentially a delegation that will agree to limit his power. The ministers he has named to the delegation so far are political appointees with no real power and no role in the inner circle.

It will be tough to convince Mr. Assad because he feels that he is negotiating from a position of strength, analysts said. The thud of artillery has diminished around Damascus, and there are few checkpoints in the past couple of weeks, according to recent visitors. With a fresh infusion of Hezbollah fighters, government forces might soon expel the opposition from the important crossroads town of Qusayr, which they have held for months.

That would mean Mr. Assad controls all the territory he cares about most, analysts said, namely the area around the capital and the key route to the coastal stronghold of his Alawite minority, which dominates the government.

For the United States and its allies, the first challenge is creating a united delegation from an opposition that has always been anything but united.

The Syrian Coalition has been plagued by internal turmoil since its inception in late 2011.

The group has failed to deliver on most of its promises, ranging from distributing humanitarian aid to areas outside government control, to creating a unified military command, to becoming a serious government-in-exile.

Instead the uneasy, distrustful members — dominated by long-exiled members of the Muslim Brotherhood, academics living abroad for decades and political activists fleeing Syria — have spent most of their time in luxury hotels arguing over which faction should claim what responsibility.

The coalition’s problems have not been lost on Mr. Assad, who spoke contemptuously of his political adversaries in the Al-Manar television interview, describing them as exiles and paid stooges of hostile foreign governments — another indication that prospects for the Geneva conference are dim.

“We will attend this conference as the official delegation and legitimate representatives of the Syrian people,” he said. “But, whom do they represent? When this conference is over, we return to Syria, we return home to our people. But when the conference is over, whom do they return to — five-star hotels?”
728 2013-05-31 HONG KONG — The Japanese stock market fell again on Thursday, extending a sell-off that began a week earlier as a feverish six-month rally came to an abrupt end.

A 5.2 percent slide sent the Nikkei 225-share index to 13,589.03, its lowest level since late April. It took the total decline since the market peaked at nearly 16,000 last week to more than 13 percent, making the decline a correction, which is characterized by a fall of at least 10 percent.

European and Wall Street shares, however, were higher in Thursday trading.

Japanese officials were at pains on Thursday to play down the latest drop, saying it represented a natural development after the huge rally set off by optimism over Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s efforts to haul the economy out of years of listless growth.

“Over the past month, we have seen an extraordinarily fast rise in share prices,” Yoshihide Suga, the chief cabinet secretary, said at a news conference. “In that regard, it would be unnatural if adjustments did not occur.” He added, “It is normal for share prices to undergo corrections even as they rise.”

The Nikkei soared more than 80 percent between mid-November and mid-May but staged a sudden about-face last week, when it slumped 7.3 percent. Trading has been volatile ever since, as investors have taken stock of the challenges that face Mr. Abe’s program, known as Abenomics, and weighed taking profits after the previous rally.
729 2013-05-31 On a hot day, a soup like this one is both refreshing and substantial....