1 2013-10-01 Republicans, who introduced a bill in a procedure requiring a two-thirds vote, planned to try again Wednesday under a rule allowing approval by a simple majority....
2 2013-10-01 A selection of scenes from the wedding of Chirlane McCray and Bill de Blasio.
3 2013-10-01 Oral arguments began Tuesday in the insider trading case against Mark Cuban....
4 2013-10-01 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
5 2013-10-01 Things nobody ever really believed....
6 2013-10-01 What happens to the nation’s capital when the government is shut down?
7 2013-10-01 The show’s celebration of busy women was complemented with soft iterations of everyday makeup and hair....
8 2013-10-01 Visitors to Boston’s historic Faneuil Hall found the site closed, but its privately run gift shop open....
9 2013-10-01 An update on travel-related news related to the fiscal shutdown....
10 2013-10-01 Empire State Realty Trust, owner of the Empire State Building, has completed its initial public offering after months of legal wrangling, raising about $930 million....
11 2013-10-01 In Colorado, some consumers who have jobs but no health care coverage are looking to the exchanges for options....
12 2013-10-01 Russell Martin hit two home runs and Francisco Liriano pitched seven innings, giving up just one run, as the Pirates beat the Reds and advanced to the National League Division Series....
13 2013-10-01 Among federal agencies affected by the shutdown, the Food and Drug Administration, which inspects the majority of food Americans eat, has told its food inspectors to stay home....
14 2013-10-01 If you are a small-business owner with employees, please take a few minutes to fill out the survey....
15 2013-10-01 Frustrated people at a closed I.R.S. office....
16 2013-10-01 New York’s Montefiore Medical Center has extensive outreach program to help consumers choose healthcare coverage....
17 2013-10-01 After a major renovation, fueled in part by $41 million in New York City funds, BRIC Arts will reopen an expanded facility within the former Strand Theater on Fulton Street in Brooklyn....
18 2013-10-01 The Department of Defense on Tuesday suspended all intercollegiate sports competitions at the service academies....
19 2013-10-01 In his first day as chief executive, Ross McEwan said he wanted the Royal Bank of Scotland to win back the trust of its customers....
20 2013-10-01 Comparable results were also seen in a recent study conducted by Jona Linde and Joep Sonnemans at the University of Amsterdam. Study participants were assigned a partner, someone who was identified as being similar to them, and they played a game together. Following the game, participants were then presented with options for potential lottery payouts.

Each lottery indicated the payout for both the individual and the assigned partner and the potential risk of each option. However, instead of consistently picking the option that meant more winnings to them, often at less risk, participants picked options that meant doing better than their partner — even if it cost them potential earnings.

Both outcomes seem crazy. Why on earth would we ever settle for less, as long as someone else has even less than us? It turns out that we struggle with relative comparisons and money. Instead of focusing on what’s in our best interest, we compare ourselves with others and act accordingly.

It’s the equivalent of buying shoes one size bigger than your neighbor even though your feet are the same size. You would never do that, but we see it all the time when it involves money and investing.

For instance, I’m still baffled when people talk with complete confidence about making a particular investment because Warren Buffett, a talking head on CNBC or even their neighbors made that choice. Why make an investing decision that fits someone else’s needs instead of making one that fits our own?

It seems to me that wanting to do better than someone else, even at a measurable cost to ourselves, points to a big gap between what we say we value and what we actually do. Instead of measuring our decisions against our goals, we measure them against what we see around us. The problem with that strategy is that we’ll never be satisfied.

These relative comparisons only represent a moving goal line. We may have made a decision that puts us ahead of someone else, even though it cost us something. But what happens when we compare ourselves with the next person?

That’s the part we invariably miss. There will always be someone else. How close can we possibly get to our goals if we’re constantly chasing someone else’s?

Not very, because I doubt many of us have a line item on our plan that says, “In 10 years have more money saved than my neighbor.” And that’s the point. In the pursuit of what we say we want, there are so many things outside our control, but this isn’t one of them. We don’t have to do what we see others doing, but it will take an active effort to control our urge to undermine others.

We can start by applying a filter to our decisions. The next time we’re faced with a choice, we need to filter it through the possibility that we’re weighing our options based on how it helps (or hurts) others.

When in doubt, look at the absolutes. Look at the numbers and do the math. Does it move you closer to your goals or someone else’s? Ultimately if we end up moving closer to what we say we value, it matters very little what we see going on next door. And that’s a good thing.
21 2013-10-01 But the new health insurance exchanges are open. The rise of cheap solar power. And the rise of mobile....
22 2013-10-01 European stocks and government bonds were little changed in the wake of the U.S. government shutdown, and politicians across the Atlantic appeared to be keeping their counsel private, for the time being....
23 2013-10-01 Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor who disclosed classified government documents and is now in hiding in Russia, made a surprise appearance of sorts at the European Parliament on Monday....
24 2013-10-01 A New York hedge fund has taken some of its Lending Club loans and sold them in a $53 million securitization. Are more such deals likely to be on the horizon?...
25 2013-10-01 Scenes from the Paris Fashion Week photo diary of Schohaja....
26 2013-10-01 As businesses become larger and more successful, the owner’s role tends to evolve....
27 2013-10-01 “You’re probably supposed to go to your catcher first, but for what he’s done for us and what he’s done for me personally,” Price said. “I think about that type of stuff before I pitch all the time, but for it to happen today — I didn’t want to text him when I thought about it. I didn’t want to jinx it.”

The Rays face another must-win situation Wednesday night at Cleveland in the A.L. wild-card game, Tampa Bay’s third game in three cities in four days. The winner will face Boston in a division series.

Price (10-8), the reigning A.L. Cy Young Award winner, had a 10.26 earned run average in four previous starts at Rangers Ballpark. He was superb in this one, striking out four and walking one. He picked off two runners while allowing seven hits and throwing 81 of 118 pitches for strikes.

“If I don’t get those two outs on the pickoff moves, I have to get the next guys out,” Price said. “It forces me to throw at least 10 more pitches.”

Longoria’s 32nd homer, off Texas starter Martin Perez (10-6), drove in two runs in the third inning and built the Rays’ lead to 3-0. Longoria had three hits, continuing his stellar play in the last game of regular seasons. He is hitting .579 (11 for 19) in those finales with 7 homers and 10 runs batted in, according to Stats L.L.C.

“I wish I could explain it,” he said. “I wish I could bottle it up and take it through 161 games and not have it be on the last day.”

Texas had won seven in a row, needing every one just to force the majors’ first wild-card tiebreaker since 2007.

Even with the return of the All-Star slugger Nelson Cruz from his 50-game suspension in the Biogenesis case, the Rangers missed a chance to get to the playoffs for the fourth year in a row.

“I’m disappointed. We didn’t get it done,” Rangers Manager Ron Washington said. “I’ve got no excuse for that.”

Cruz, who had 27 homers and drove in 76 runs in 108 games before his suspension, was 0 for 4 with a strikeout while hitting sixth as the designated hitter. His groundout to shortstop ended the game.

Luckily for Manager Joe Maddon and the Rays, they were not done in by another blown call in Texas, though this one did cost them at least one run.

Tampa Bay had runners at first and second with two outs in the seventh when Delmon Young, who put the Rays ahead to stay with a sacrifice fly in the first, hit a soft fly ball.

Center fielder Leonys Martin made a running, diving attempt for a catch. Replays showed clearly that the ball bounced into Martin’s glove; the left-field umpire, Bruce Dreckman, looking at the play from the side, ruled the play an inning-ending catch.

Young rounded first base with his arms spread out, signaling safe. Maddon went out to discuss the call, though the conversation did not appear heated.

“Thankfully, it didn’t come back to bite us,” Longoria said.

When the Rays played at Texas on April 8, their 5-4 loss ended when the plate umpire, Marty Foster, called a third strike against Ben Zobrist on a pitch low and outside. The umpire later admitted the 2-2 curveball was not a strike and said he wouldn’t call that pitch a strike if he could do it again. The Texas win and closer Joe Nathan’s 300th career save stood.

Maddon said after that game that such calls “can’t be made in a Major League Baseball game.” The Rays still had a runner on base and Longoria on deck when Zobrist was called out.

M.L.B. intends to use expanded video review next year, though balls and strikes will not be subject to review.

The Rangers beat Tampa Bay in A.L. division series in 2010 and 2011 on way to their only two World Series. It was the second year in a row their season ended in a do-or-die game at home — they lost to Baltimore in the first A.L. wild-card game last October.

“I’m happy that we don’t have to play them anymore,” Longoria said. “ It’s fitting we had to go down this road. It feels really good to be able to leave here celebrating instead of with our heads down.”

In 2011, the Rays had to overcome a nine-game deficit in the final month of the season and were down seven runs in their 162nd game. They got to the playoffs after Longoria’s game-ending homer in the 12th inning beat the Yankees.
28 2013-10-01 It has become clear that Garnett, however he feels about a city, will emerge as an outsize presence from it. And though he may no longer be able to carry a team on his back, he may still provide its heartbeat.

The stories about him were flowing from other Nets players.

Andray Blatche described Garnett’s contribution to the players’ informal off-season workouts: “As soon as K. G. got onto the court, things just” — here he snapped his fingers — “went off.”

Brook Lopez said seeing Garnett in the team weight room last week was “pretty surreal.” Joe Johnson said he was realizing that Garnett, for all his intensity, was “more of a class clown type of guy.” And Reggie Evans, who assumed a mentoring role last season, said Garnett would be an “even bigger, bigger big brother” to the team’s young players.

The coaching staff will feel Garnett’s big presence, too. Last week, Kidd and Garnett chatted about the possibility that he would not play back-to-back games during the season to preserve his legs. Asked on Monday about that talk, Garnett said, “It didn’t go too well.”

As the laughter subsided, he added, “I’m just being honest.”

Garnett said he fully understood Kidd’s position. But he would not apologize for his stubbornness.

“I just don’t want to be told anything,” Garnett said. “I hope that I’ve earned the right to have an opinion in something that I’m doing. But I think more importantly, seriously, from a chemistry standpoint, I think it’s important for me to be out with everybody.”

That chemistry will begin to take shape Tuesday when the Nets begin their five-day training camp at Duke in Durham, N.C. The players said Monday that the trip would give them valuable time to bond and blend, away from the New York news media.

According to a team spokesman, the Nets issued 150 credentials for Monday’s event to 60 organizations. It was a marked increase from last season, one attributable to Garnett, Pierce, and Andrei Kirilenko, a high-profile free-agent acquisition.

From the various news media came similar questions about the health of an aging team; the stars sharing shots and managing egos; and the team toughness or the lack thereof.

“If you look at Game 7, we kind of were soft — that’s the only way to put it,” point guard Deron Williams said, referring to the first-round playoff loss to the Chicago Bulls. “I don’t see that being a problem this year.”

And Garnett, a 15-time All-Star, will have everything to do with changing that. The Nets now possess an archetype — a caricature, even — for the intense, impassioned professional. And being traded, he admitted Monday, has given him a new competitive edge.

To a team that did not have an identity, he provides an oversize one.

Deron Williams (sprained ankle) will be on the court Tuesday but will take things slow. “I could probably go out and do everything,” he said Monday, “but if I tweak my ankle, if I have a setback, then that wouldn’t be good.” ... Nineteen players are expected to be at training camp. Forwards Gary Forbes and Chris Johnson and guards Jorge Gutierrez and Marko Jaric were signed in the past week. The Nets already had 15 players on guaranteed contracts, though, so the new players are unlikely to make the roster.
29 2013-10-01 His bizarre odyssey began on Oct. 13, 2011, when his owner, Shaun Dyer, returned to his apartment on East 62nd Street to find a city marshal waiting to evict him and his roommate, David Shadha, for not paying their rent. Mr. Dyer opened the door, and there was Mr. Shadha, 47, dead on the floor. Bones was very much alive.

“Get the dog,” the marshal told Mr. Dyer, according to court records. “Go downstairs, tie your dog up, and wait.”

The police arrived a few minutes later and asked Mr. Dyer if his dog was usually white.

“Why is he pinkish in color?” the officer asked.

“He was in the apartment,” Mr. Dyer responded, according to court records.

Mr. Dyer, 48, told the police that he did not know what had happened to his roommate and had spent the morning traveling to and from his methadone clinic. He was charged with murder and is awaiting trial.

Bones was also taken into custody after bite marks were found on Mr. Shadha, raising the possibility that Bones may have been used as a murder weapon.

Bones was held for a month or two in a city shelter. Animal rights advocates worried that a dog that had done no wrong might be euthanized. Ms. Mittasch received e-mails asking her group to intervene. The Manhattan district attorney’s office put her in touch with Mr. Dyer’s Legal Aid lawyer, James M. McQueeney, who passed along the request from Ms. Mittasch to take custody of Bones.

“He signed the release,” Mr. McQueeney said in an interview. “He was happy to have the dog in a good home.”

Ms. Mittasch said it was clear right away that for all his strength, Bones had a sweet side.

“When we were in the van, he was laying his head on our lap,” she said of the ride home. “He was a great dog.”

Though they do not typically handle adoptions, Ms. Mittasch heard about Kathy Sutter, a woman in Toledo, who was said to have a knack with powerful dogs and had an interest in Bones. They eventually came to an agreement to send Bones there.

“Boney is doing very well,” Ms. Sutter posted on her Web site in March 2012, noting his “soft lovey side where he will rub up against you back and forth like a cat. Or climb on your lap.”

Then in January, Ms. Sutter notified Ms. Mittasch of the burglary and dognapping. Bones was then about 9 years old. Ms. Mittasch did not believe the story. She said Ms. Sutter seemed unconcerned and showed no interest in posting lost-dog fliers, so she took over the search from New York, enlisting volunteers she found online in Ohio.

Ms. Sutter moved to a more rural home soon after reporting Bones missing. Recently, said Ms. Mittasch, a woman, whose identity Ms. Mittasch would not reveal, contacted her and said Bones was buried in the backyard of Ms. Sutter’s former home. Ms. Mittasch arranged a dig with local residents and they found a dog’s corpse on Sunday.

On Monday, Dr. Steven Graber, a veterinarian in Toledo, matched an identification chip that was found in the remains to the code of the one that had been placed in Bones, he said.

“I can’t positively say he was starved, but I would bet he was in an extreme state of malnutrition,” Dr. Graber said.

Gary Willoughby, executive director of the Toledo Area Humane Society, said his office was talking to local prosecutors and considering what steps to take next, including whether to seek a search warrant to look for more dog corpses in the yard.

Ms. Sutter did not return calls on Monday. But The Blade newspaper in Toledo said she was standing by the story about the burglar.

“It’s not Bones,” she said of the remains.
30 2013-10-01 The day after their third season together ended, Terry Collins and Sandy Alderson returned to Citi Field on Monday for the official announcement that Collins’s contract had been extended for two more years, with a club option for a third. Collins wore a dress shirt for the occasion. He was thrilled to be kept on, to see, as he put it, the light at the end of the tunnel.

Not that everyone else necessarily sees that light, of course. Collins and Alderson have endured three rebuilding years together with the same truth weighing on them: the Mets were financially handicapped, unable to make the necessary moves to lift the team’s talent level. For three straight seasons, the Mets’ ineptitude was accepted as a given, which did not sit well with a fan base that has shown up at Citi Field in decreasing numbers.

Monday, then, was the beginning of a new era. Alderson essentially announced that the Mets, now freed of a number of burdensome contracts, could spend again. Jeff Wilpon, the Mets’ chief operating officer, said the whole organization now felt pressure to win. As a result, expectations will adjust accordingly, including those that will be placed on Collins.

In the coming days, members of Mets management will convene in Florida. They will evaluate their players. They will decide whom they want to add in free agency or in trades. They will determine the payroll for 2014. For the first time since Alderson came aboard, the Mets appear to have the ability to spend more than $2 million on this player and $3 million on that one.

The payroll, Alderson said, was about $87 million this season, not counting the deferred money owed to Jason Bay, and about $40 million of that amount is now coming off the books.

“How much will be available to us?” Alderson asked rhetorically. “If you kept the payroll about the same, a substantial amount of money. Certainly we’ll have more payroll flexibility than we’ve had since I’ve been here.”
31 2013-10-01 “The N.B.A. is not an easy job,” Stoudemire said. “As you get older, you play this game for 82 games a year, and you play 11 or 12 years, your body tends to break down. That being said, the coaching staff, the medical staff — I think we all understand what it takes to try to prolong a player’s career, and that’s what they’re doing here with my situation.”

Stoudemire, 30, who signed a five-year, $100 million contract with the Knicks in 2010, has had his career deteriorate because of chronic knee trouble. He has had three operations in the past 12 months, though his health problems predate his time in New York. In 2005, when he was with the Phoenix Suns, he had microfracture surgery on his left knee. The next season, he had arthroscopic surgery on his right knee.

Last season, the toll was apparent. Limited to 29 regular-season games, Stoudemire averaged 14.2 points and 5 rebounds.

“My goal is to stay faithful and to understand that anything can happen,” Stoudemire said, adding, “I want to bounce back and become the player that I know I am.”

Mills said the team would take a cautious approach with Stoudemire, who said he expected to be under a strict minutes limit — something in the range of 20 to 25 minutes a game — once he returned. Of course, it remains unclear when that will be. Stoudemire has yet to resume basketball activities, and the bulk of his training camp will involve trips to the swimming pool and the weight room.

“The bottom line is to try to get Stat through a full season so he’s ready to go for the playoffs,” Coach Mike Woodson said, referring to Stoudemire by his nickname. “That’s something that’s going to have to be managed by myself and the medical staff. And we have to be creative in how we go about it.”

The Knicks are not a young team, and Stoudemire is not the only player who used the off-season to address nagging injuries. Anthony (shoulder), Tyson Chandler (neck) and J. R. Smith (knee), to name three, are all in various states of repair. As Anthony put it, “I want to say I feel 100 percent, but I haven’t felt 100 percent since I was a little kid.”

As for Stoudemire, the Knicks attempted to insure themselves against another long absence by acquiring Andrea Bargnani from the Toronto Raptors in an off-season trade. It seems clear that the team does not plan to lean on Stoudemire, at least not for a while.

A proud player whose body has undermined his skills, Stoudemire sounded like someone who was finally coming to terms with his physical limitations.

“It’s a matter of now just trying to maintain strength and health to have some solid and very productive years,” he said.

Still, there were moments when Stoudemire summoned some of his old defiance, the younger version of himself who considered himself a superstar on par with Kobe Bryant and LeBron James — and was not shy about saying so. He said he still hoped to reach his “full potential.” He offered an important reminder.

“My career isn’t over yet,” he said.
32 2013-10-01 To apparently make it look as if he was doing something, anything, Dolan replaced Glen Grunwald — who carried only the title of general manager — with Mills, a former Madison Square Garden 10-year executive who returned as general manager as well as president.

Mills proceeded to announce he had come with the assignment of “rebuilding the basketball organization” — strange for a team that billed itself as a championship contender last season and continued to do so Monday.

Mills mentioned things like skill sets and analytic trends — he’s a man — but maybe he can begin by rebuilding the Knicks’ relationship with the public. Fans may not care that reporters have worked in a suffocating environment, but most ticket buyers would agree they’ve been gouged for everything but the air inside the renovated world’s most famous arena without enough postseason reward.

Now there is a building in and a team inside it to provide stiff competition in the Atlantic Division and for attention in the New York market. No question, have created an interesting dynamic and quandary for the Knicks as they plot their future beyond this season. Perhaps in Dolan’s ever-changing mind, this necessitated the abrupt executive maneuver.

Remember how much the Nets wanted Anthony when he was trying to leverage his way out of during the 2010-11 season? They had no chance because they were still in and for all Anthony knew, was in some meadow near as opposed to its convenient transportation junction at the Atlantic Rail Yards.

After a dispiriting second-round defeat to the in the playoffs, the Knicks are widely viewed as a team that will struggle to equal or better the 54 regular-season victories that put them second in the Eastern Conference. Having added and Paul Pierce, the Nets — if only on paper — would seem to be the division favorite and a stronger overall contender.

In a manner of speaking that Anthony and Garnett could better relate to, the Knicks seem to be in the metaphorical role as the Cheerios while the Nets may well be good enough to be Honey Nut.

What if the Knicks should slide backward and lose again in the first round, and it becomes apparent that they must do something drastic next summer to retain Anthony? One would think that Madison Square Garden would be an attraction enough to eventually draw a companion star for Anthony, assuming cap room can be cleared by trading Tyson Chandler’s or Amar’e Stoudemire’s expiring contract in 2015.

Not the case, apparently. It takes a well-credentialed or connected recruiter to land the great ones these days, which is why wound up in Miami with . Through no fault of his own, Grunwald was treated as if he were under house arrest in Dolan’s oppressive environment and had no profile. Dolan may have finally woken up to the need for a frontman with a face familiar to the players.

Far from famous, Mills was a -endorsed candidate for the vacant directorship of the and was recently the chief executive officer for a wealth management company that focused on athletes and celebrities as clients.

He said that Dolan would allow him to make his own organizational hires, so expect more front-office change and speculation about Isiah Thomas, who was Mills’s 2003 hire for the position he now occupies. It’s all become very incestuous at the Garden, reminiscent of the musical chairs used to play with Billy Martin, Lou Piniella and Gene Michael, among others.

Anthony, an affable scoring machine, may be too enamored of his celebrity life in New York to go elsewhere. But what if the Garden becomes the home of the bland and Anthony decides it won’t be fun to stick around to take his share of the blame?

With so much already invested in Anthony, the last thing the star-struck Dolan can afford to have him say is, “Cheerio, old chap.” has his marching orders.
33 2013-10-01 “The airlines are really keen on Routehappy, because we’re basically telling people when and where they can get a better flying experience,” he said. If you plan well, that can be had without paying extra, he added.

But as the TV hucksters say, “Supply is limited!” As any frequent flier knows, airlines have been busily adding extra fees on most aspects of flying, spurred by the spectacular revenue increases they have seen since most airlines started charging extra for checking bags on most coach tickets. Where that goes nobody knows, except I did feel a little chill recently when an airline reservation message gravely informed me that my carry-on laptop was a “complimentary” service.

Now, as to seat availability at the base coach fare, let me give you an example of just how limited that supply seems to be these days, from a booking I researched Monday morning on American Airlines, for a planned trip from Tucson to Fort Myers, Fla., departing on Oct. 15 and returning on Oct. 19.

The coach fare was $742 for a flight connecting through Dallas. Yet even two weeks in advance, there were no available assigned seats on any of the four legs of the round trip, on 737 and MD80 aircraft each way. But I did have a choice, as the airlines love to say. If I didn’t wish to “continue without seats” as my reservation message said, I could choose to pay extra for a few middle-row seats available on each of the four separate flights ($27.99 and $31.99 extra, respectively, on the two outbound flights). To book a coach flight over two weeks away with assigned seats, the actual fare would have increased to $868.96, or $918.96 if I checked a bag.

But there’s more, as they say on TV: The reservation process offered me a discount of $100 if I signed up for an American Airlines AAdvantage credit card. That card has an annual fee of $95.

As the airlines have perfected what they call “capacity discipline” by reducing the number of seats flown, the truth is that many business travelers are choosing to pay the airline vig, I mean ancillary fees. Even corporate travel managers are now pretty much resigned to approving extra charges for seats that aren’t in the middle of the rows, back by the bathrooms.

Given those realities, the Routehappy report also has useful information about those “extra legroom” or “premium economy” seats that the airlines now sell in sections of the coach cabin specifically set aside as a separate class from steerage. About 9,000 of the roughly 22,000 daily domestic flights offer that option, and Delta leads the way with 3,397 of them, Routehappy says.

The premium-economy option is increasingly popular on international flights among business travelers, as a kind of middle ground between base coach and the far more expensive business class. Nearly half of the 1,800 international flights departing daily from the United States have the premium-economy option, Mr. Walton said. British Airways has by far the most such flights, followed by Virgin Atlantic, Routehappy says.

With the growing popularity of international premium-economy, “we are obviously drinking the Kool-Aid in the area of flight comfort,” Mr. Walton said.

He added: “Premium economy internationally is basically the same as or better than domestic first class in comfort, including lie-flat beds on some flights. I was back and forth to the U.K. four times this summer, and every time I went premium economy, because this summer premium-economy fares were about $1,600, compared to about $1,400 for regular economy. So it was a no-brainer.”

As the airlines will be very happy to tell you as they accept your money.
34 2013-10-01 LOS ANGELES — Warner Brothers and RatPac-Dune Entertainment said that they had agreed to a deal under which Warner will receive financial backing for as many as 75 films over four years or more.

The companies did not disclose financial terms, but the initial financial commitment by RatPac-Dune was put at about $450 million by one person who was briefed on the deal but spoke on condition of anonymity because of confidentiality strictures.

RatPac-Dune is a partnership between financial and film production companies managed by Steven T. Mnuchin, whose interests include OneWest Bank Group and Dune Capital Management, and Brett Ratner and James Packer, who are partners in RatPac Entertainment.

Legendary Entertainment, which has supplied Warner with capital and films in recent years, is completing its move to Universal Studios. Under the new arrangement, RatPac-Dune Entertainment will provide backing for Warner films, but will not be involved in creative decisions, according to the person briefed on its terms.
35 2013-10-01 Even so, Mr. Erdogan announced other steps to broaden the use of the Kurdish language, offering legal structure for villages to be renamed in Kurdish and lifting a ban on the use of the letters Q, W and X, which are widely used in Kurdish spelling but not in Turkish.

The measures announced on Monday, including some that are unrelated to Kurdish rights, like the return of confiscated properties to Syriac Orthodox Christians in eastern Turkey, may help to burnish Mr. Erdogan’s democratic credentials. Those were tarnished during the summer when antigovernment protests swept Turkey and the government cracked down heavily with tear gas and water cannons.

The protests were seen as a sharp rebuke to Mr. Erdogan and his Justice and Development Party, which has governed Turkey for more than a decade. He rose to power promising democratic reforms, and he has delivered on some by, for example, securing civilian control over the military. But many Turks say he has shown autocratic tendencies and resent the restrictions his Islamist government has imposed on alcohol and his tendency to intrude on private lives by, for example, advising women to have at least three children.

“Turkey has been on an unstoppable path along the direction of democracy, and this package is an important and historical phase in this advancement,” Mr. Erdogan said.

The proposals from Mr. Erdogan, some of them subject to approval in Parliament, would also further relax the country’s longstanding limitations on women wearing Islamic head scarves in public places. Mr. Erdogan, who had already eased the ban for college students, said Monday that women in most government jobs would be allowed to wear them at work, though the ban would remain for those in the military, the police force and the judiciary.

Some Turks had hoped that Mr. Erdogan would announce that the Halki Seminary, a Greek Orthodox religious school on an island in the Sea of Marmara that was closed by the Turkish government in 1971, would be allowed to reopen. But Mr. Erdogan did not mention the matter on Monday.

The leader also failed to respond to demands by Alevis, an offshoot of Shiite Muslims in Anatolia, for their temples to be officially recognized. Alevis make up nearly 20 million of Turkey’s population of more than 75 million people.

Neither did he explicitly link his proposals concerning the Kurds to the peace process, though they were widely interpreted in that context.

Turkish leaders opened peace talks last year with the P.K.K. and its jailed leader, Abdullah Ocalan; the group announced a cease-fire in March and started withdrawing its fighters from Turkey to bases in northern Iraq. But a final peace hinged on promises of political reforms, and after months passed with no action, the P.K.K. said in September that it was halting the withdrawal.
36 2013-10-01 LONDON — The tax authorities in India froze Nokia’s assets there last week in a dispute over tax payments, but Nokia, the Finnish cellphone company, said on Monday that it had regained access to its Indian bank accounts.

Nokia said the tax authorities froze all of its Indian assets, including its bank accounts and factories, last Wednesday to ensure that Nokia could pay its future tax bill, estimated to be hundreds of millions of dollars.

In early September, Microsoft agreed to buy Nokia’s struggling cellphone unit for about $7.2 billion. Nokia challenged the ruling, gaining access to its Indian bank accounts, but its local factories and other buildings remain frozen, preventing transfer to a new owner.

“We are now working closely with the tax authorities,” Nokia said in a statement Monday. “Nokia has sufficient assets in India to meet its tax obligations.”

A spokesman for Nokia said the freeze would not affect the Microsoft deal, which is expected to close in the first quarter of 2014. Production at its Indian facilities would not be affected, he added.
37 2013-10-01 In addition to its illicit financing activities, the group has proved adept at stealing from Islamic charities, like mosque-building projects and schools, according to several Somali elders.

But the Shabab are also known as savvy businessmen. After the group seized the port of Kismayo in southern Somalia, some car dealers as far as Mogadishu preferred importing vehicles there, instead of using the main government port, saying the Shabab ran a tighter operation with lower fees.

Though African Union forces have pushed the group out of Kismayo, its fighters still control the sandy hinterland around the port, and Somali elders say it continues to tax items like T-shirts, sugar and soap.

“They have a diversified income stream,” said Jonathan Schanzer, the vice president for research at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies and a former counterterrorism official at the United States Treasury. “Sort of a perfect cocktail that created this nightmare scenario.”

Somalia’s perennial chaos makes the Shabab’s tendrils even harder to remove. Militant groups around the world dabble in the felonious, but the long history of anarchy in Somalia, whose central government imploded in 1991, creates the ideal environment for war profiteers.

Shabab militants are able to extract extortion fees, kidnap Western aid workers along the Kenyan border, collude with Indian Ocean pirates and then retreat to their strongholds with no worries about being arrested or prosecuted because law enforcement is virtually nonexistent in Somalia.

The country’s extreme poverty is another complicating factor. When the United States designated the Shabab a terrorist organization in 2008, setting off sanctions on material support for the group, aid agencies complained bitterly that the American rules were making it impossible to distribute lifesaving aid in Shabab-controlled areas. The American government relaxed the enforcement of some of these rules in 2011, when a famine swept through southern Somalia, to ensure that assistance got to the millions of Somalis who needed it.

While the Shabab control far less territory than they did a few years ago, many people in this region remain terrified of their network of assassins and their continued ability to stage large-scale attacks on civilians, like the massacre in the Kenyan mall or a suicide bombing in Uganda in 2010 that killed scores of people. And as the Shabab transform themselves from a guerrilla movement that once aspired to rule Somalia and fielded a large army of young fighters (Shabab means “youth” in Arabic) to a leaner and more mobile terrorist organization, their costs will go down.

Mr. Schanzer said the attack on the Nairobi mall probably cost the group “close to $100,000,” calculating the price of the automatic rifles, bullets and grenades that were used, along with training costs and possibly rent for a store in the mall that investigators suspect may have been used as a weapon depot before the attack.

Over the weekend, Kenya’s major newspapers reported that the country’s intelligence services had information about a potential strike on the mall but failed to act. American officials said that the warning had been based on fragmentary information and that they had no “actionable” or specific intelligence about the attack.

Many analysts had long believed that Nairobi might be spared because it is one of the Shabab’s logistical hubs, with the Somali enclave of Eastleigh serving as the financial capital for the group.

“That’s where the money transaction companies are,” said Ken Menkhaus, a professor of political science at Davidson College. “That’s where business can be done undetected.”

Mr. Menkhaus said Eastleigh also served as a center for recruitment and fund-raising, and was even used by Shabab fighters looking for a place to recuperate after being wounded on Somalia’s battlefields.

Just about all of the institutions in Somalia collapsed under the weight of 20 years of anarchy, including the banking sector, giving rise to a lightly regulated money transfer business. Western officials have struggled with how to prevent the estimated $1.3 billion per year that flows into Somalia, often from small storefronts in London or Minneapolis, from reaching militant groups without punishing the countless Somalis who rely upon these remittances to survive.

In May, two Minnesota women, both naturalized American citizens from Somalia, were sentenced for providing material support to the Shabab after going door to door with others to raise money for the group, often pretending the donations were for the poor.

A United Nations investigative team reported this summer that Somali businessmen in Qatar had raised money and wired it, using a money transfer service, to a Shabab hit squad to finance “a wave of assassinations.”

The British bank Barclays, one of the few to work with the Somali money transfer companies, has begun severing ties with them, fearing that it could run afoul of laws meant to stem terrorist financing.

President Hassan Sheik Mohamud of Somalia said in an interview that his country desperately needed to replace its informal money transfer business with a proper banking sector, but that it needed more time. The sudden shutdown of financial transfers could be disastrous, he said, especially now, when Somalia is struggling to recover from years of chaos and needs infusions of investment to keep the momentum going.

If anti-Shabab measures are too broad, Mr. Mohamud said, they could backfire. For instance, cutting off the ability of Somali expatriates to send back money to relatives could make many people poorer and drive more jobless, disillusioned youths into the Shabab’s ranks to earn cash to support themselves.

“We need to break that vicious circle of generations losing hope,” Mr. Mohamud said.

As long as large areas of Somalia remain violent and ungoverned, as they do today, the Shabab will have plenty of opportunities to do business. The group has cashed in on the Chinese demand for illicit elephant ivory, training fighters to sneak across the Kenyan border and slaughter elephants for their tusks, businessmen in Kismayo say. Shabab fighters have also extorted access fees from some aid groups, Somali elders say, often getting tens of thousands of dollars to allow humanitarian aid to be distributed in their zones.

But perhaps nothing has been more lucrative for the Shabab than the underground charcoal trade. Known as black gold, the charcoal made from burning Somalia’s acacia forests is highly prized in the Arabian Peninsula. Exporting charcoal was banned under the dictatorship of President Mohammed Siad Barre, but it roared back to life in the chaos that followed his ouster in 1991.

Before Kenyan forces captured Kismayo, the charcoal trade earned the Shabab more than $25 million a year, according to United Nations investigators. The loss of Kismayo was a huge setback for the Shabab, and the United Nations Security Council passed a resolution last year banning imports of Somali charcoal.

But the Shabab have shifted the business to other ports still under their control, continuing to export millions of sacks of charcoal per year.

“They have less money, but they don’t need a lot of money,” Mr. Menkhaus said. “You can still do an awful lot of damage with not that much money.”
38 2013-10-01 The Coca-Cola Company plans to erect 150 kiosks in 20 countries that will offer water, electricity and Internet connections; they may also sell Coke and other products.

“We’re calling it a downtown in a box,” said Serena Levy, a company spokeswoman.

The announcement was made by Coca-Cola’s chairman, Muhtar Kent, at the Clinton Global Initiative meeting.

Right now, one such kiosk exists, a pilot version in Heidelberg, South Africa. It is a shipping container with solar panels for power, a satellite dish for wireless communication and a Slingshot water distiller designed by Dean Kamen, the Segway inventor.

Setup costs are an issue; for example, the first Slingshots cost more than $100,000 to build, but Mr. Kamen has said that he hopes volume will push the price below $2,000.

Ideally, the Coca-Cola Company said, the kiosks will be run by women. Which products and services the company will charge for is under discussion; they could, for example, store vaccines and offer health education without cost while asking people to pay for water and cellphone charging.

“We’re still working on the business model,” Ms. Levy said.

Soft drink companies are often accused of contributing to the obesity epidemic and Coca-Cola has been criticized for expanding its line of sugary products into poor countries where nutrition is subpar and dental care is lacking. Coke executives have countered that their bottling plants supply clean water and small entrepreneurs make money selling their drinks. DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.
39 2013-10-01 “You get all kinds of requests,” said Sydney Beers, general manager of Roundabout. “ ‘I smoke; I want a balcony. I’m scared of elevators; I want a walk-up — but a nice walk-up. I cannot go on stage if I don’t have a lot of sunlight in my apartment.’ ”

But at companies like Roundabout, Ms. Beers continued, housing is not just a requirement, but also a way to keep the actors in good, enthusiastic spirits, especially since many of them take a pay cut when they sign up for a show there.

“They’re coming here and working for a nonprofit theater,” Ms. Beers said. “A happy actor is what you want.”

On Broadway, there is no such requirement, but housing is often negotiated into the contract of sought-after actors and directors.

Darko Tresnjak, for example, the director of “A Gentleman’s Guide to Love and Murder,” now in rehearsals for a Broadway run, is staying in a rental building on West 42nd Street, a studio with an entire wall of windows. And the actress Harriet Harris is staying in a one-bedroom on West 57th Street, with nice light and a sliver of a Central Park view, during her Broadway turn as the wicked stepmother in “Cinderella.”

“Nobody would ever say, ‘Oh gee, let’s live in Midtown!’ ” said Ms. Harris, a former New Yorker based in Los Angeles. “But for this job, it’s very nice.”

Whether for a Broadway show or a nonprofit-theater production, company and general managers cobble together a wide variety of options, including corporate housing, rental buildings with flexible landlords, and furnished apartments found through brokers who specialize in short-term leases. (General managers say those brokers can become well practiced in negotiating a broken lease if, say, a show closes earlier than expected.) The amount a production is willing or able to spend on housing varies widely, as well. Marie-Claire Martineau, an associate broker and owner at Maison International, who regularly works with theaters and productions, said it can range from less than $3,000 a month up to $8,000, or even, in very rare cases, more than $10,000 for a major star.

Of course, discounts can sometimes be found, sometimes for those who need it least.

Lisa Morris, president of Road Concierge, a company that handles production travel, recounted once calling a luxurious Manhattan hotel to inquire about its most lavish suite. After she mentioned that the room was for Al Pacino, she was told it would be his for the price of the hotel’s smallest standard room.

“I’m in a unique position of trying to protect a celebrity’s privacy, but also letting them know who they are so we can get the better rate,” she said.

Outside New York City, some regional theaters can solve the problem by simply building houses. Goodspeed Musicals in East Haddam, Conn., for example, built 17 new houses a few years ago, bringing its total close to 30.

But even less competitive, lower-cost housing markets still have their challenges.

“Our housing here is what it is,” said Seth Shepsle, general manager of the Two River Theater in Red Bank, N.J. While the quality and quantity of their housing has improved in recent years, because Red Bank is small, there are only so many options — and only one of them always allows pets.

“There’s a dog in the show right now, so that dog took up our dog housing,” Mr. Shepsle said, referring to a Toto look-alike named Snickers. “None of the other actors could bring their pets.” And for that reason, he said, there were some who declined to work on the show.
40 2013-10-01 But on Monday, economists were scrambling to estimate the more immediate effect on the economy if all nonessential government services were closed on Tuesday.

While many economists have said that the direct blow to the economy would be relatively modest if a shutdown lasted only a few days — as past shutdowns have — the political battles could hurt confidence.

“The hit to consumer and business confidence from such an outcome could be substantial, increasing the shutdown’s effects,” Gennadiy Goldberg, a United States strategist at TD Securities, wrote to clients on Monday.

Any reduction in spending would be problematic because economic growth has already been more sluggish than most policy makers want. The Federal Reserve determined recently that the economy was too weak to withstand even a small reduction in the central bank’s stimulus efforts.

The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said during his news conference on Sept. 18 that the budget battles could make matters worse.

“I think that a government shutdown — and perhaps, even more so, a failure to raise the debt limit — could have very serious consequences for the financial markets and for the economy, and the Federal Reserve’s policy is to do whatever we can to keep the economy on course,” he said.

On Wall Street, the fears about a government shutdown were overshadowing a few recent indicators that the economy may have been strengthening. Manufacturing activity in the Chicago area picked up more than expected in September, according to a private index released Monday.

As the negotiations in Washington continue, many strategists are closely watching the bond market. If the government does move closer to defaulting on its debt, investors might be expected to sell off their Treasury bonds. But last time the government approached the debt ceiling in 2011, investors counterintuitively piled into Treasury bonds, treating them as an unexpected safe haven.

On Monday morning, traders first sold 10-year Treasury bonds, but then began buying later in the day, pushing the yield on the bond up to 2.63 percent from its closing level of 2.62 percent on Friday.

The dollar was little changed against other major currencies.

Derek Halpenny, head of global markets research at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in London, said the currency market had remained calm in the face of the budget battle.

“Markets can handle the prospect of a government shutdown starting tomorrow,” Mr. Halpenny said. “But if there’s no resolution on the debt ceiling negotiation by Oct. 17, when the government tells us they’ve run out of money, that’s a different proposition. Then you could really get into a panic situation.”

In the short term, he said, the conflict might help to weaken the dollar because investors had been expecting American interest rates to rise. A sharp decrease in government spending would hurt economic growth and probably lead the Fed to hold off on its plan to curtail its monthly bond-buying program, a component of its monetary stimulus plan that holds down rates.

While the game of chicken in Washington was foremost in investors’ minds, Europe had a sudden flare-up of an old ailment: Italian politics.

The yield on the Italian 10-year bond rose 9 basis points, to 4.5 percent Monday, after the political party of the billionaire former prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, shook the government over the weekend. The yield later in the day slipped back, up only 3 basis points.

Five ministers of Mr. Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party resigned from the cabinet, leading Prime Minister Enrico Letta to call for a confidence vote to be held this week. A failure to win that vote, which will probably be held Wednesday, could lead to the collapse of his governing coalition.

Europe has managed to keep politics mostly on the back burner for months, since the European Central Bank said last year that it would do whatever was necessary to support embattled governments, including buying their bonds outright, as long as they enacted important measures to right their finances. Without a functioning government, though, Italy might not be able to meet the E.C.B.'s conditions.

The Italian turmoil “could potentially cause a new wave of euro crisis,” Holger Schmieding, chief economist at Berenberg Bank in London, wrote in a note.

The major effect of the European Central Bank’s bond-buying announcement, Mr. Schmieding said, has so far been to reassure investors that support would be available even for Italy, the third-largest euro zone economy after Germany and France. A collapse of the government there might cause them to lose faith in that backup plan, and the resulting sell-off could “hit business and consumer sentiment across Europe, dampen the nascent recovery and prolong the period of economic pain for the stricken euro periphery.”

Inflation data from the euro zone Monday suggested the E.C.B. has additional room to cut its benchmark interest rate from the current 0.5 percent. The central bank holds its monthly governing council meeting on Wednesday.

A first estimate of September consumer prices from Eurostat, the statistical agency of the European Union, showed inflation rising 1.1 percent.

By the E.C.B.'s definition, price stability is achieved when inflation is just below 2 percent.

Mr. Halpenny said the latest figure “must be at the very bottom of their acceptable range,” raising the risk of deflation. He said Mario Draghi, the European Central Bank president, and his colleagues on the bank’s governing council would probably not announce a rate cut after their meeting Wednesday, but that Mr. Draghi “could give a quite dovish outlook to set the market up for a cut in November or December.”
41 2013-10-02 President Obama said he would not negotiate with Republicans until they agreed to approve legislation that would reopen the government....
42 2013-10-02 How did it get to be October already?...
43 2013-10-02 It was unclear if the Park Service was also considering similar exceptions for the Korean and Vietnam War Memorials nearby....
44 2013-10-02 The director of national intelligence cited an “extremely damaging” situation in regard to intelligence agencies’ abilities to support military and diplomatic efforts around the world....
45 2013-10-02 A business near the Grand Canyon National Park has offered $25,000 to reopen parts of the park, and North Carolina has reminded fall foliage tourists that visitor center restrooms along the Blue Ridge Parkway will not be open....
46 2013-10-02 Apple is not saying much publicly about its plans for television, but new employees hired from CableLabs and Hulu suggests Apple’s “intense interest” in TV is progressing....
47 2013-10-02 A retrospective analysis found that depression may be an independent risk factor for Parkinson’s disease....
48 2013-10-02 House Republican leaders seem to have found a new strategy on the government shutdown: If it grabs a headline, open it....
49 2013-10-02 A new study suggests statins may have a beneficial side effect: reducing gum inflammation, which is a known risk factor for plaque buildup in arteries....
50 2013-10-02 The Obama administration mounted a full-court press on Wednesday to enlist business leaders to pressure Congressional Republicans to agree to finance the government and increase the nation’s borrowing limit....
51 2013-10-02 The opening concert Wednesday night at Carnegie Hall was called off because of a strike by its stagehands....
52 2013-10-02 House measures to fund a selection of sites and services drew a promise of a veto from the White House, whose budget office said that “all of the government” should be reopened....
53 2013-10-02 Four small-business myths about the Affordable Care Act, ADP reports fewer new jobs than expected and one of the most successful marketing campaigns in history....
54 2013-10-02 How do you meet with 575 customers in a little over three days? Start with a relentless schedule, add precision timing and throw in lots and lots of coffee....
55 2013-10-02 If you were a college admissions officer, what criteria would you deem most important when looking at an applicant? How would you select which candidates to admit to your college?...
56 2013-10-02 What are Republicans insisting as part of their budget negotiations with Congressional Democrats and President Obama?...
57 2013-10-02 A Wall Street report says warns of “upside risk” to the budget deficit because of the threat it poses to the collection of government revenues, shutdown costs and other demands....
58 2013-10-02 President Obama’s nominee to be the nation’s top energy regulator withdrew on Tuesday, conceding he did not have enough support for confirmation. The nominee, Ron Binz, a former Colorado energy regulator who strongly backs renewable energy, was opposed by at least half of the 22-member Senate Energy Committee, including all 10 Republicans and at least one Democrat.
59 2013-10-02 “I think what we have demonstrated, and other people have demonstrated, is that with good decisions, you absolutely can compete in this league. That’s what gives us hope, that’s what drives us forward, that’s what’s going to keep our fans excited. We’re demonstrating it once again in the postseason.”

The Rays entered the field on Monday with a 5-2 road victory over the , reaching the playoffs for the fourth time in the last six years (same as the Yankees). Evan Longoria went 3 for 4 with a home run, and David Price went the distance for the win.

The Rays have little to no hope of keeping Price for the long term. But they control Longoria for the next decade, and if the time comes to trade Price, chances are they will make a deal that keeps them competitive. That is how they operate, year after year, despite an outdated ballpark in an inconvenient location that draws few fans.

“The whole is greater than the sum of the parts,” Rays outfielder Sam Fuld said last week. “If you look at our lineup on any given night, you might go, ‘How is that a playoff team?’ But we make it work. You see doing the same thing.”

The A’s and the Reds have been daring internationally, signing the Cuban free agents Yoenis Cespedes and Aroldis Chapman for contracts the Yankees and others deemed too risky. The Dodgers got into the bidding last year, adding Yasiel Puig for $42 million and Hyun-Jin Ryu, from , for $36 million.

The Rays cannot even think about playing the high-stakes international game or spending much on major league free agents. So they find a more efficient way, paying more attention to developing their own prospects, trading for those from other teams and keeping them healthy and durable enough to contribute right away in the majors.

“I think it gets back to each respective organization having a different operating model,” said Andrew Friedman, the Rays’ general manager. “If we had a lot more in the way of resources, we wouldn’t necessarily operate this same way. But it’s hard to say exactly what would differ and how, because we just have a very laserlike focus on what we can control, and no focus on anything outside of that.”

If the Rays beat the Indians on Wednesday, they will meet the Red Sox in the division series. For most of last summer, the Red Sox seemed locked into a payroll quandary similar to that of the Yankees, the and the , with crippling long-term commitments to the wrong kinds of players. Then the Dodgers offered an escape hatch.

Believing correctly that added star power would increase the value of their new television deal, the Dodgers absorbed more than $260 million to add Adrian Gonzalez, Carl Crawford and Josh Beckett. It was a gift, to be sure, but the Red Sox deserve for using that savings on seven impact free agents, without spending more than $39 million on any of them or losing a first-round draft pick in the process.

The Red Sox added two outfielders (Shane Victorino and Jonny Gomes), a first baseman (Mike Napoli), a closer (Koji Uehara), a shortstop (Stephen Drew), a starter (Ryan Dempster) and a backup catcher (David Ross). The cost of those seven for 2013, before incentives: $53.1 million. The 2013 salaries of Gonzalez, Crawford and Beckett: $56.7 million.

The bailout from the Dodgers was an unusual circumstance, perhaps not instructive for other teams. But the Red Sox’ savvy shopping, at least, underscores the notion that bargains exist, if teams are perceptive enough to find them. The Pirates’ decision to push aggressively for Martin, and sign him before the winter meetings, was another example.

“We’ve had some trades and signings that have been imperfect, and you always will,” Nutting said. “We just need to minimize the mistakes and maximize the opportunities over and over and over again. It’s a whole series of small decisions.”

Years of foolish decisions — signing Derek Bell, trading for Matt Morris, drafting Brad Lincoln over Clayton Kershaw, and so on — doomed the Pirates to their 20-year streak of losing seasons. Better decisions, and an unwavering belief that there was a path to a night like Tuesday’s, brought them the postseason stage.

The Pirates’ revenues and market size will never match those of the Yankees. But for 2013, at least, it did not matter.

“I’ve never said it was unfair, because as soon as you allow that to creep into your mentality, as soon as you let it creep into your organization, it becomes something to hide behind,” Nutting said. “And this has been a take-no-prisoners team from the very beginning. We set our goal to win the world championship. We want to play meaningful games in October. And if that’s your ultimate goal, you have to believe it’s achievable.”
60 2013-10-02 That has left the people of Namie and many of the 10 other evacuated towns with few good choices. They can continue to live in cramped temporary housing and collect relatively meager monthly compensation from the government. Or they can try to build a new life elsewhere, a near impossibility for many unless the government admits defeat and fully compensates them for their lost homes and livelihoods.

“The national government orders us to go back, but then orders us to just wait and wait,” said Tamotsu Baba, the mayor of this town of 20,000 people that was hastily evacuated when explosions began to rock the plant. “The bureaucrats want to avoid taking responsibility for everything that has happened, and we commoners pay the price.”

For Namie’s residents, government obfuscation is nothing new. On the day they fled, bureaucrats in Tokyo knew the direction they were taking could be dangerous, based on computer modeling, but did not say so for fear of causing panic. The townspeople headed north, straight into an invisible, radioactive plume.

Before the disaster, Namie was a sleepy farming and fishing community, stretching between mountains and the Pacific. These days, it is divided into color-coded sections that denote how contaminated various areas are, and how long former residents can stay during limited daytime-only visits. They are issued dosimeters on their way in, and are screened on their way out. Next to one checkpoint, a sign warns of feral cows that have roamed free since fleeing farmers released them.

Inside the checkpoints, Namie is a ghost town of empty streets cluttered with garbage and weeds, unheard-of in famously neat Japan. Some traditional wooden farmhouses survived the earthquake, though they have not survived the neglect. They collapsed after rain seeped in, rotting their ancient wooden beams. Their tiled roofs spill into the roads.

Through gritty shop windows, merchandise that fell off shelves in the quake can still be seen scattered on the floor. In the town hall, calendars remain open to March 2011, when the disaster struck.

Officials have reoccupied a corner of the building for their Office for Preparation to Return to the Town, though their only steps so far have been to install portable toilets and post guards to prevent looting. The national government hopes to eventually deploy an army of workers here to scrape up tons of contaminated soil. But officials have run into a roadblock: they have found only two sites in the town where they can store toxic dirt; 49 would be needed.

Just last month, the government admitted that such travails had left the cleanup hopelessly behind schedule in 8 of the 11 towns, which they originally promised would be cleaned by next March. Even in the places where cleanup has begun, other troubles have surfaced. Scouring the soil had only limited success in bringing down radiation levels, partly because rain carries more contaminants down from nearby mountains.

The Environmental Ministry now says the completion of the cleanup in the eight towns, including Namie, has been postponed and no new date has been set.

In Namie, a town hall survey showed that 30 percent of residents have given up on reclaiming their lives in their town, 30 percent have not, and 40 percent remained unsure.

Ms. Watabe’s visits have been emotionally painful, and scary. She says her husband’s car dealership was robbed. Her yard was invaded by a dangerous wild boar, which she managed to chase off. She considers weeding her driveway so risky that she waved away a visitor who offered to help, pointing to her dosimeter showing readings two and a half times the level that would normally force an evacuation.

She reminisced about her once close-knit community, where neighbors stopped by for leisurely chats over tea. She raised her four children here, and her 10 grandchildren were regular visitors; their stuffed animals and baby toys lie amid the debris on the dealership floor.

Her youngest son, whose own family had shared the house and who was supposed to take over the family business, has vowed never to return. He moved, instead, to a Tokyo suburb, worried that even the taint of an association with Namie could cause his two young daughters to face the same sort of discrimination as the survivors of the Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombings.

“The young people have already given up on Namie,” Ms. Watabe said. “It is only the old people who want to come back.”

“And even we will have to give up soon,” her husband, Masazumi, added.

While their chances of making it back seem low, their former neighbors in the town’s mountainous western half are even less likely to return anytime soon. The Watabes’ house sits in the orange zone, indicating mid-level radiation. Most of the west is a red zone, the worst hit.

The road that winds up a narrow gorge of roaring rapids from the main town seemed idyllic on a recent visit, except for the bleating of a radiation-measuring device. Cleanup here was always expected to be harder, given the difficulties of trying to scrape whole mountainsides clean.

Near the entryway of her three-century-old farmhouse, 84-year-old Jun Owada swept her tatami floor clean of the droppings from the mice that moved in when she moved out. She had returned this day to perform a traditional mourning rite, washing the grave of her husband, who died before the earthquake.

Unlike the Watabes, she has decided to move on, and is living with a son in suburban Tokyo even as she comes back to honor a past she is putting behind her. Every time she visits, she said, she receives a dose equivalent to one or two chest X-rays even if she remains indoors. As she pushed her broom, she pointed out things she could not fix.

The terraced rice paddies are overgrown, and although her home’s thick wooden beams have held out longer than her neighbors’, they, too, are starting to rot.

“One look around here,” she said, “and you know right away that there is no way to return.”
61 2013-10-02 Kudos to Bard College and its president, Leon Botstein, for challenging college admission testing and saying he is trying to “start a debate about the kind of dishonesty that prevails” in college admissions.

But I’m afraid that I have to assign a split grade (A for concept; C minus for application), based on the test examples cited.

While these examples focus on provided texts, a student’s ability to respond substantively will depend largely upon the depth of field provided by the quality of her previous schooling. Questions referring to “The Analects” of Confucius and its commentators, or Max Weber and German reaction to World War I, however interesting, are cases in point.

Excellent direction, Bard; now back to the drawing board. Distill the questions and include less academese and more straightforward language that calls forth thoughtful and original responses. You have till end of term.

The writer is a retired lecturer in English at the University of Maine, Orono.
62 2013-10-02 For combined hormones, for every 10,000 women taking the drugs, the new analysis found that there were six additional instances of heart problems, nine more strokes, nine more blood clots in the lungs and nine more cases of breast cancer. On the benefit side, there were six fewer cases of colorectal cancer, one fewer case of uterine cancer, six fewer hip fractures and one fewer death. Most of the effects wore off once the drugs were stopped, but the risk of breast cancer remained slightly elevated.

Women who took estrogen alone actually had a reduced risk of breast cancer; the reason is not known. For other conditions, the results were similar to those for combined hormones. But estrogen alone can be given only to women who have had their uterus removed, because estrogen alone increases the risk of uterine cancer. In women who still have a uterus, the estrogen must be combined with some form of progesterone.

For both types of hormone treatments, the risks were lowest in the youngest women, ages 50 to 59, and highest in women from 70 to 79.

In 1993, when the study began, millions of women were taking the drugs to relieve hot flashes and vaginal dryness. There was also a widespread belief that hormones would keep women youthful and feminine, and prevent heart disease and dementia.

The study, which included more than 27,000 women age 50 to 79, provided a rude shock: it found that hormones might actually cause the ailments they were thought to prevent. The most popular treatment, the combined hormones, increased the risk of heart disease, breast cancer, blood clots, strokes, gallstones, urinary incontinence and dementia. Another treatment, estrogen alone — given only to women who had surgery to remove the uterus — also increased the risk of blood clots, strokes, gallstones and urinary incontinence.

Hormone use dropped sharply after the findings came out in 2002. But some doctors and patients stuck with the drugs, arguing that the risks were relatively small and had been overplayed, needlessly frightening women away from the best treatment for hot flashes, night sweats, insomnia and vaginal dryness that can take the joy out of sex.

A few years after the findings came out, the incidence of breast cancer in older women dropped significantly, something that statisticians attributed to the decline in hormone use.

Dr. Elizabeth G. Nabel, a professor of medicine at Harvard who wrote an editorial accompanying the new report, said in an interview that seemingly small risks could be significant for individual patients, particularly people with family histories of breast cancer, heart disease or strokes.
63 2013-10-02 “What happens in the country doesn’t stop at its borders but is felt throughout the European Union,” Mr. Rehn said, according to Ansa, an Italian news agency. “So my hope is for the return of political stability as soon as possible in order to take the decisions necessary for the return of growth and employment.”

But also hanging in the balance is the long reign of Mr. Berlusconi in Italian politics. His charisma, money and political savvy have held the center right together for years, analysts say. He has said that he is now leaving the government because Mr. Letta has done too little to roll back a new value-added tax. But most analysts believe he is maneuvering to escape his latest and most serious legal troubles, which are threatening to end his career and endanger his business empire after two decades of largely dodging sex and corruption scandals.

His recent conviction on tax fraud means that he must begin a one-year sentence on Oct. 15 (he is expected to serve it under house arrest). On Friday, a special Senate commission will resume deliberations to expel him from his current Senate seat. And a court in Milan is expected to soon decide how many years Mr. Berlusconi will be banned from seeking public office, based on his tax fraud conviction. A fine of about 500 million euros was upheld against his financial empire.

His loyalists have blamed a politically biased judiciary for his troubles, but they have been divided on how to respond. Some party insiders say that Mr. Berlusconi is deeply concerned that should he be expelled from the Senate — and thus stripped of certain parliamentary privileges against prosecution — he would be more vulnerable to other investigations against him.

In ordering his ministers to step down last weekend, Mr. Berlusconi sided with hawks in his camp who have pushed him to remove his party’s support from the coalition government and force new elections to win a public mandate. But another camp has been increasingly vocal that bringing down the government would be irresponsible and could lead to a trouncing at the polls.

By late Tuesday, it seemed likely that Mr. Berlusconi’s followers would splinter, after a long meeting concluded with Mr. Berlusconi still pushing for a no-confidence vote, according to Ansa. Many of his supporters were signaling that they would back the government.

After meeting with Mr. Berlusconi earlier in the day, Angelino Alfano, a longtime ally and the deputy prime minister in the coalition government, announced on his Facebook page that he hoped the entire party would support the government. Others voiced similar sentiments, with predictions that Mr. Berlusconi might lose dozens of members of his party, or more.

Mr. Berlusconi had already met with leaders of his party on Monday night, seeking unity. Instead, fissures became obvious; when one party leader, Fabrizio Cicchitto, tried to voice dissent, Mr. Berlusconi ignored him, Italian news outlets reported.

“I hope that we will correct the political error we made withdrawing the ministers and that we go forward so that there is a government,” Mr. Cicchitto said on Tuesday, according to Ansa.

The pressure on Mr. Berlusconi to reverse course — or for his followers to desert him — is coming from many directions. Business leaders have warned that the Italian economy could suffer another blow, even as new statistics show that industrial production is slumping and youth unemployment has topped 40 percent.

Moreover, Italy must complete a budget plan by the middle of month so that it can be submitted to Brussels for approval. Missing this deadline could bring serious penalties from European officials and damage Italian credibility.

Meanwhile, many of Mr. Berlusconi’s supporters are conservative Roman Catholics, and the Vatican’s newspaper, L’Osservatore Romano, published a blistering front-page editorial that said provoking the crisis was “irresponsible” and could damage “the credibility of the entire Italian political class.”

Mr. Berlusconi has almost never been challenged within his own movement. Gianfranco Fini, a former ally, left him three years ago to form a moderate party, but has largely disappeared, at least politically.

“On the center-right, you don’t have a party,” said Sergio Fabbrini, a leading political analyst in Rome. “You have a personal company.”
64 2013-10-02 Richard Parsons describes this restaurant, a restoration, as an Afro-Asian-American brasserie. (It’s adjacent to Minton’s, the late 1930s Harlem club that he has also revived, which is to open this month.) The food represents the traditions of the African diaspora combined with Asian and American cuisines. Look for spicy ginger squid, citrus jerk striped bass and a gumbo of smoked turkey, Chinese chicken sausage and crab meat. Alexander Smalls, who made waves years ago at Cafe Beulah, is in charge of the food here and at Minton’s, and he has put Joseph Johnson, known as JJ, in the kitchen. Jenny Lee is the pastry chef. The room is in warm copper tones: 210 West 118th Street, (212) 866-1262, thececilharlem.com.

CLEMENT This is the latest name of the restaurant on the second floor of the Peninsula hotel, which has had several over the years. In the handsome, tailored dining room, the chef Brandon Kida serves contemporary American fare that emphasizes the Northeast, with ingredients like halibut from Chatham, Mass., and Elysian Fields lamb from Pennsylvania: 700 Fifth Avenue (West 55th Street), (212) 903-3918, peninsula.com/clement.

LA BOTANERIA Roberto Santibañez has opened this little Mexican bar, which serves small plates delivering Latin tastes, across the street from his Brooklyn restaurant, Fonda: 427B Seventh Avenue (14th Street), Park Slope; (347) 987-3570, labotaneria.com.

SOLO KOSHER CHINESE KITCHEN Chicken spring rolls, pan-seared beef dumplings, General Tso’s chicken, Cantonese orange beef and Hunan-style tilapia are some of the dishes at this place, which was a kosher dairy restaurant, Solo: 550 Madison Avenue (East 55th Street), (212) 833-7800, primehospitalityny.com.

TAQUITORIA A team that was working at Restaurant Marc Forgione has brought the taquito, a rolled, fried taco, to the Lower East Side: 168 Ludlow Street (Rivington Street), (212) 780-0121, taquitoria.com.
65 2013-10-02 It was unclear how long the shutdown might go on, and no one in either party could say if Republicans would remain firm in their insistence that Democrats agree to significant changes to the health care law. But on the initial day of the first shutdown in nearly 18 years — when a Republican-controlled Congress battled another Democratic president, Bill Clinton — there was little business getting done in the House or the Senate other than photo opportunities and partisan speeches.

One senior Republican, Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the House Budget Committee chairman, indicated that the stalemate could go on for at least two more weeks until the nation reaches its borrowing limit. He said the deadline to address the debt limit, and avoid a default, could be “the forcing mechanism to bring the two parties together.”

Yet House Republicans also vow to oppose an increase in the debt ceiling unless Mr. Obama delays the health care law.

On Tuesday night, Speaker John A. Boehner and House Republicans tried to ease the effects of the shutdown and force Democrats into negotiation. The Republicans proposed three bills — to finance veterans’ programs, the National Park Service and federally run services in Washington — but because they introduced the measures under a fast-track procedural rule that required a two-thirds vote, each of them failed.

Republicans are considering bringing up the bills again on Wednesday under a different rule that would require only a simple majority, but they have no chance of moving forward. “By refusing to let the House vote on the only bill that will reopen the government, Speaker Boehner is single-handedly keeping the government shut down,” said Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader.

Earlier, the District of Columbia Council approved a measure to keep city government functioning and pay its employees from a contingency fund that would last for about two weeks.

The mood in the White House was upbeat and enthusiastic, aides said, buoyed by a sense that Republicans were on the defensive — in the news media, in their states and among others in their party.

In past budget conflicts back to 2010, administration officials have said that media commentary amounted to “a pox on both your houses,” with reporters and pundits suggesting that both parties were equally to blame when, in the White House’s view, Republicans have been the obstructionists since they took control of the House in the 2010 elections.

On Capitol Hill, an uneasy calm descended after the 12:01 a.m. shutdown. By the morning light the usual hordes of tourists were barred from entering the Capitol and many House and Senate aides stayed home, furloughed without pay. Republicans acknowledged that they were in the weaker position politically but argued that Democrats could not long defend their refusal to negotiate.

“At every turn, the answer has been no,” said Senator John Thune, a Republican leader from South Dakota. “I don’t think the American people see that as a reasonable proposition.”

Democrats, with some support in early national polls, said they could hold firm so long as Republicans’ demands were so unreasonable — and, in their view, disingenuous.

Senator Tim Kaine, Democrat of Virginia, noted that House and Senate Democrats had been pressing for a conference committee to negotiate a budget for the 2014 fiscal year since March but had been “blocked by Republicans 18 times in the last six months.”

Senator Charles E. Schumer, a Democratic leader from New York, said, “At the rate it’s going,” Republicans “will have to open up the government sooner rather than later because they won’t be able to sustain their position.”

Not all Republicans were backing their leaders’ pleas to stand strong against the president. Representative Scott Rigell, a Virginia Republican, became the latest moderate to break ranks, saying his party should abandon the fight to target the health law as a condition of approving a budget. “Republicans fought the good fight,” he said.

Senator Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, said of Democrats: “We’ve called their bluff, and they didn’t blink. At this point it would kind of strain logic to assume that going deeper into this when Republicans are likely to get the blame will benefit us more.”

Nonetheless, at noon, House Republican leaders summoned reporters and photographers into a gilded room overlooking the National Mall, directing the cameras to capture the empty seats — for Democrats, they said — at the table.

“The way to resolve our differences is to sit down and talk,” said Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the No. 2 House Republican. “And as you can see here, there’s no one here on the other side of the table.”

The scene so irritated Mr. Reid that he soon strode onto the Senate floor to denounce such “silly, empty Republican stunts.”

His Republican counterpart, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, also took to the floor. “Well, Democrat leaders in Congress finally have their prize — a government shutdown that no one seems to want but them,” he said.

Mr. Reid, a former boxer, interrupted with a jab. “My friend the Republican leader spoke as if George Orwell wrote his speech,” he said. “This is ‘1984,’ where up is down, down is up, east is west.” Nobody was happier to have the government closed than the Tea Party, Mr. Reid said, adding, “We had a good day for the anarchists.”

From the White House, the president had the loudest megaphone and a battery of television cameras to likewise make the case that the Republican Party in Congress had been taken over by a minority of militantly conservative lawmakers who have cowed Republican leaders.

“At midnight last night for the first time in 17 years, the Republicans in Congress chose to shut down the federal government,” Mr. Obama said. “Let me be more specific: One faction of one party in one house of Congress in one branch of government shut down major parts of the government, all because they did not like one law.”

Mr. Obama said once again that he would not negotiate over the debt ceiling and “allow anybody to drag the good name of the United States of America through the mud just to refight a settled election or extract ideological demands.” He added: “I’m not out there saying, ‘Well, I’m going to let America default unless Congress does something that they don’t want to do.’ That’s not how adults operate.”

Mr. Obama said the full economic impact would depend on how long the shutdown goes on — something neither party was willing to predict. But, he said: “We know that the last time Republicans shut down the government in 1996, it hurt our economy. And unlike 1996, our economy is still recovering from the worst recession in generations.”
66 2013-10-02 The pharmaceutical company Merck announced on Tuesday that it would lay off 8,500 employees, cut $2.5 billion in costs over the next two years and undertake a restructuring of its troubled research and development unit, which has suffered several major setbacks in recent years.

The company also announced that it was abandoning plans to move from Whitehouse Station, N.J., to a new headquarters and would instead consolidate its operations at an existing facility in Kenilworth, N.J.

In a statement, Merck’s chief executive, Kenneth C. Frazier, said the actions were aimed at making the company more competitive and “better positioned to drive innovation and to more effectively commercialize medicines and vaccines for the people who need them.”

The actions will significantly reshape one of the world’s largest drug companies: together with previously announced layoffs of 7,500 employees, the new dismissals will reduce the company’s global work force of 81,000 employees by about 20 percent, Merck said. The cost cuts are expected to be completed by the end of 2015, with $1 billion in reductions accomplished by the end of 2014, the company said.

Investors responded positively to the news: shares of Merck rose 2.4 percent in Tuesday’s trading.

The announcement follows a series of major research setbacks in the company’s late-stage clinical pipeline that had analysts questioning Merck’s direction. A week ago, the Food and Drug Administration rejected its application for an anticipated anesthesia drug, sugammadex, citing concerns about a hypersensitivity study in patients, and earlier this year the agency rejected an application for a new sleep drug, suvorexant. In that case, the F.D.A. indicated it would eventually approve the drug in a different dosage.
67 2013-10-02 Federal and state officials said that while they knew there was pent-up demand for health coverage, the number of visits to their exchanges was greater than anticipated....
68 2013-10-02 Mr. Graham was carrying identification from Texas, but he had been living in a homeless shelter in the Bronx as recently as one week ago, according to the police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly.

Mr. Kelly, who outlined the sequence of events, said the rampage started about 7:55 a.m. near 65th Street and Riverside Park South.

The attacker first approached a 36-year-old woman jogging under some trees on a riverside path and stabbed her in the back.

A minute or two later, he attacked a 36-year-old man who was walking his dog. At first the man thought he had been punched in the stomach, but saw blood and realized he had been stabbed.

The attacker then turned his attention to a 32-year-old woman jogging farther south along the path, which winds through plantings, benches and public sculptures. She was stabbed in the neck.

“He continues to move south and a little east when he encounters a man with a stroller with his 2-year-old son,” Mr. Kelly said. “He slashes that man in the chest as the man is attempting to protect his son, and his son is slashed on the arm.”

The police declined to identify any of the victims, but the father was identified by colleagues as James L. Fayette, a former solo dancer with the New York City Ballet who now is a representative for the union that represents the dancers, the American Guild of Musical Artists. His son, Luke, was released from a hospital after receiving several stitches, but Mr. Fayette remained in serious condition on Tuesday evening.

As the attacks mounted, it quickly became clear that the normally peaceful park had been transformed into a scene of violence.

A bystander who saw the father being attacked confronted Mr. Graham, the police said, and was able to wrestle him to the ground, keeping him subdued until the police arrived at 8:04 a.m.

The bystander, who declined to give his name before being whisked away by police officers, told reporters that the real hero was the father.

Ben Loehnen, a senior editor for Simon & Schuster, was out walking his dog when he was attacked. His husband, Peter Wertheim, said that they live nearby on the Upper West Side.

“He told me that he was walking and this man basically ran at him,” Mr. Wertheim said. “Ben thought that he had been punched in the stomach. He didn’t realize that he had been stabbed until he looked down and saw a hole in his Patagonia vest.”

Mr. Loehnen was doing well after surgery at St. Luke’s Hospital on Tuesday evening. He was especially thankful for two bystanders who helped him, his husband said. One woman even made sure that his dog, Wilson, got home safely.

While the episode was “horrible,” the men were relieved that it had not been worse.

“He almost feels bad for the person who did this,” Mr. Wertheim said. “He’s obviously not a well person.”

Shurita Fields, 51, who was at work at a Sanitation Department station at 59th Street beside the Hudson River, said several people had come running out of the park, screaming that there was a madman stabbing people.

She ran to the site with her supervisor and saw a man in a gray sweatsuit lying facedown on the ground, another man pinning him down.

As police officers converged, one of the victims was in tears.

“She was screaming,” Ms. Fields said of the victim, “and was holding a coat over her neck. She told me she was stabbed. She was hysterical, crying.”

Ms. Fields did her best to reassure her. “I told her, ‘Listen, just calm down. Someone’s coming to help you,’ ” she said.

One victim was taken to St. Luke’s-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Morningside Heights. The four other victims were transported to St. Luke’s-Roosevelt Hospital in Midtown. On Tuesday night, a hospital spokeswoman said that two stabbing victims there were in critical condition. All five victims were expected to survive, the authorities said.

The suspect was taken to Bellevue Hospital Center for evaluation and remains in custody.

D. J. Jaffe, the executive director of the Mental Illness Policy Organization, said the attack in the park highlighted broader problems with how the city and the state dealt with people with mental illness. Many patients in public psychiatric hospitals were admitted only after a court order, Mr. Jaffe said.

“New York went from 600 beds per 100,000 population in the mid-1950s to fewer than 27 today,” he said. “As a result, Rikers Island is New York’s largest psychiatric institution.” Rikers Island is a city jail.

The attack comes just days after another seemingly random park assault. On Friday, a mother fought off an attacker in the Hudson River Greenway near Fort Tryon Park, north of where the attacks on Tuesday took place.

A man approached the woman as she was pushing her 8-month-old baby in a stroller in the park in Washington Heights. The attacker had a broken bottle and grabbed the woman, but she fought back, hitting him several times with a bicycle air pump, the police said. The mother and child escaped unharmed. No one has been arrested.

She told reporters the man had told her he was sick even as he attacked her.

On Tuesday, a wide swath of Riverside Park, which stretches four miles from 72nd to 158th Streets along the Hudson River, remained shut all morning.

Mr. Kelly sought to reassure residents that attacks in city parks were rare.

“Parks are very, very safe,” he said. “We see something like this happen and it concerns everybody, we understand that. But the amount of incidents of crime in parks is minuscule.”
69 2013-10-02 For their part, antigovernment activists have criticized the intense international focus on Syria’s chemical weapons, noting that only a tiny fraction of the more than 100,000 dead in the civil war were victims of unconventional weapons.

“Now all the international community is interested in is chemical weapons, not about the person who used them,” said an activist who goes by the name Abu al-Hassan in the contested Syrian city of Aleppo, which has been heavily damaged by artillery barrages and airstrikes. Referring to the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad, he added, “They can get rid of the chemical weapons and Assad can still kill us with tanks and airplanes.”

A team of United Nations investigators who visited the sites of the Aug. 21 attacks and interviewed and took samples from survivors said they found that sarin gas had been used, but they did not assign responsibility for its deployment. The same team concluded a second, six-day mission to Syria to investigate the sites of other reported chemical attacks on Monday.

The new mission to dispose of Syria’s chemical arsenal will begin by verifying its size and components. The United States and Russia have estimated that Syria has 1,000 tons of chemical agents.

The international chemical weapons watchdog has worked in conflict zones like Iraq and Libya, but says it has no experience working in the context of a running civil war like Syria’s, which has divided the country into a patchwork of rebel- and government-controlled zones, many of them split by active front lines.

The agency approved an ambitious timetable last week that calls for destruction of the equipment for producing chemical weapons by the end of November and of the entire stockpile by mid-2014.

Around 20 experts, including personnel from the five permanent members of the Security Council, will begin Tuesday to thrash out the details of how they will reach Syria’s stockpiles.

After the first week, the team is expected to expand and move to verify what is at those sites and to assist Syria with the destruction of equipment and facilities for mixing agents and producing chemical weapons, an official involved with planning the mission said.

American officials have identified about 45 sites involved in Syria’s chemical weapons program, but Damascus has acknowledged moving some of its arsenal and experts expect that a smaller number of sites are now active.

Experts said their visits to those locations would verify the accuracy of Syria’s disclosure on the weapons it possesses and assess which sites had the security and infrastructure to support the destruction of chemical agents and munitions expected to start in November.

But officials of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons said the biggest challenge to their work was the security of its teams as they work at sites that may be located close to front lines or are near areas controlled by rebel groups.

While Syria is responsible for the teams’ security, Russia has said security may be provided by members of a Russian-led coalition that includes Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan.

Such arrangements would test just how far the diplomatic rhetoric of consensus surrounding the destruction of Syria’s arsenal would work in practice.

Diplomats say any involvement by Russia and its allies in providing security for the inspectors would give Moscow scope to influence the pace of implementation of the agreements on chemical weapons.
70 2013-10-02 A pasta and yogurt dish inspired by recipes from Greece and Turkey....
71 2013-10-03 Timothy G. Massad, an assistant secretary of the Treasury, is among those under consideration to lead the Commodity Futures Trading Commission....
72 2013-10-03 The decision to have just one class of stock marks a big change from the big Internet I.P.O.’s of the last several years, which aimed to preserve control for the company’s founders....
73 2013-10-03 In Twitter’s I.P.O. filing, the company said the quality of its users posts will determine if people will continue to use the social media site....
74 2013-10-03 In making public its prospectus, Twitter sets the clock on one of the most anticipated stock sales of the year and shows how important mobile is to its business....
75 2013-10-03 Chirlane McCray, the wife of Bill de Blasio, sat down with a reporter for The New York Times recently for a two-hour interview at a Brooklyn diner, speaking openly about her personal life, her politics and her role in the campaign....
76 2013-10-03 New York City Opera performers, staff and fans recall the company, which announced this week that it will close....
77 2013-10-03 California’s small-business exchange....
78 2013-10-03 About 70 percent of the 7,000 new companies that are likely to grow to the $1 billion-revenue mark by 2025 will come from emerging markets in Asia and elsewhere, a report by the McKinsey Global Institute estimated....
79 2013-10-03 Because of the government shutdown, there will be no weddings in Washington until the federal government says so....
80 2013-10-03 Like the great French photographers he idolized, Peter Turnley remains enchanted by Paris, a city where he finds timeless moments of romance and delight....
81 2013-10-03 The Navy-Air Force  game will go ahead this Saturday despite the government shutdown. The meeting between the military academies will be paid for without using money appropriated by Congress, a Pentagon spokesman said Wednesday. The same goes for an Army game this weekend against Boston College, the spokesman said. Future games will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.

The decision came during a difficult week for the defense department, which furloughed about half of its 800,000 civilian work force.

Both the Naval Academy and the Air Force Academy, for example, say they have had to cancel about 20 percent of their classes during the shutdown.
82 2013-10-03 The growing challenge to the legitimacy of government, not merely the specter of a default on its debt, jeopardizes America’s world leadership, and the business elite has been strangely silent, an economist writes....
83 2013-10-03 The International Criminal Court has issued an arrest warrant for a man suspected of tampering with witnesses in the war crimes case against William Ruto, Kenya’s deputy president — the first time the court has sought to prosecute someone over interfering with its legal process. The target of the warrant, the Kenyan journalist Walter Barasa, denied the allegation. The court, based at The Hague, said Wednesday that Judge Cuno Tarfusser had issued the arrest warrant for Mr. Barasa, 41, on suspicion of attempting to bribe a potential witness. Mr. Barasa issued a statement in Nairobi saying he had been in contact with a court investigator named Paul Irani, acting as a go-between for Mr. Irani and a witness in the Ruto case. Mr. Barasa claimed that Mr. Irani and other prosecutors were trying to elicit false testimony from the potential witness to strengthen their case. Mr. Ruto has pleaded not guilty to charges of crimes against humanity over claims of orchestrating violence in the aftermath of Kenya’s 2007 presidential election. Kenya’s president, Uhuru Kenyatta, is also facing charges of crimes against humanity over claims of organizing attacks on supporters of his political rivals in the 2007 election. He denies all charges.
84 2013-10-03 An architect and his wife spent $586,000 on a light-filled New Jersey house, land included....
85 2013-10-03 Mr. de Blasio said he was optimistic that Mr. Cuomo’s desire to cut taxes statewide would not affect the Legislature’s willingness to allow New York City to raise taxes, and he argued that Albany should allow local governments to make local taxation decisions for themselves. He said he had no alternative plan for financing universal prekindergarten.

“This is very different from the question of what taxes the state assesses directly,” Mr. de Blasio told reporters in Red Hook, Brooklyn, where he was touring an after-school program. “It’s a modest addition to taxation for folks who make a half-million or more, but it would make a huge strategic difference for our schools.”

Mr. Cuomo did not address Mr. de Blasio’s proposal on Wednesday. But he said that improving state finances made tax cuts possible, and that he was concerned high taxes could drive people to move elsewhere.

“New York, I believe, is the greatest state in the country, but there are other states that have more favorable tax climates, and businesses and people can shop those tax climates and they can leave, and we have to keep that in mind,” he said.

Mr. Cuomo said that in addition to property taxes, the commission’s members would be asked to review “any taxes that they believe are unduly burdensome to business, and to middle-class and working families.” The commission’s recommendations are due Dec. 6, and he said they would be included in his State of the State address in January.

Some left-leaning groups are hoping that if, as Mr. Cuomo suggested, the state does have surplus revenue in coming years, lawmakers will direct more money toward areas they feel have been neglected, like public schools.

A spokesman for the State Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, did not respond with enthusiasm when asked about the formation of the tax commission. “The governor is free to pick whoever he wants to advise him,” the spokesman, Michael Whyland, said.

Mr. Pataki and Mr. McCall have been adversaries of Mr. Cuomo in the past. Mr. Pataki defeated the governor’s father, former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, in 1994. Mr. McCall defeated Mr. Cuomo for the Democratic nomination for governor in 2002 (before losing to Mr. Pataki). In 2011, Mr. Cuomo named Mr. McCall to lead the board of trustees for the State University of New York.

“I have to confess, when I got the call from Governor Cuomo, I wasn’t sure he had dialed the right number,” Mr. Pataki said, drawing laughter. He said he supported Mr. Cuomo’s goal to reduce taxes and was convinced of his sincerity in wanting to address the problem.

Mr. Cuomo previously appointed a Tax Reform and Fairness Commission, which also features Mr. McCall as a chairman. The governor said that commission was focusing on how to simplify the state’s tax code, and would also offer recommendations to him in December.

Mr. Cuomo and lawmakers have seemingly been mindful of the election calendar in shaping tax policy. In March, in a surprise deal, Mr. Cuomo and legislative leaders agreed to extend the top tax bracket, which was set to expire at the end of 2014. The move allowed them to avoid debating the issue during an election year. At the same time, Mr. Cuomo and lawmakers agreed to send families a series of $350 tax rebates starting in the weeks before the November 2014 election.
86 2013-10-03 The world becomes less complicated with a Malcolm Gladwell book in hand. Mr. Gladwell raises questions — should David have won his fight with Goliath? — that are reassuringly clear even before they are answered. His answers are just tricky enough to suggest that the reader has learned something, regardless of whether that’s true. A recent posting on Goodreads, a Web site that bolsters enthusiasm for books and reveals no-baloney reasons readers like them, lauds the power of Mr. Gladwell’s entertaining insights into the not quite obvious. “Do you really want to be surprised all the time?” a commenter identified as Dr. A. Taubman asked this week about Mr. Gladwell’s latest, “David and Goliath.” “The world is disconcerting enough already.”

As Mr. Gladwell specifies, “David and Goliath” sets out to explore two — just two — ideas. The first is that there is greatness and beauty in David-Goliath fights, at least when the underdog wins. The second is that “we consistently get these kinds of conflicts wrong” by failing to realize that giants have weaknesses, and that underdogs can accomplish the unexpected. If “David and Goliath” were a more serious book, it would have to apply that thought to terrorism. But, as Dr. Taubman implies, Mr. Gladwell is not in the business of providing disturbing information.

Instead, his emphases are on uplift and novelty. So he analyzes the David-Goliath bout, comparing the effects of slingshots to those of sword and spear. He lauds David’s little-guy maneuverability. And he suggests that Goliath, like scientifically studied giants, might have had acromegaly, a growth disorder that would have meant a pituitary tumor, which could have created vision problems, which might explain why Goliath had an attendant to lead him. Maybe that led him to misjudge David’s power. Maybe the Israelites watched from a distorting vantage point that made Goliath look excessively big, David excessively puny. Do we see the relevance of these thoughts to our daily lives?

Not yet? Then consider the title of this three-part book’s first section: “The Advantages of Disadvantages (and the Disadvantages of Advantages).” This turns out to be much more blunt than it sounds. During the course of a multipart, one-note argument, Mr. Gladwell demonstrates that short teenage girls playing basketball and a schoolteacher with a 29-student classroom could make seemingly adverse circumstances work to their advantages. The girls learned to dominate the courts on which they played. And the teacher liked the variety of that seemingly overcrowded classroom, which may stir up an argument among the polite elite most likely to read Mr. Gladwell: the contrast between seemingly elite prep schools and colleges and more downscale ones in which students may be likelier to excel. His advice: Ignore school ratings. Be a big fish in a small pond. Who wants to be a guppy at Harvard?

As usual, Mr. Gladwell’s science is convenient. He has charts to back up his premise about academic success, but how is success measured? In happiness? Salary? Getting jobs, or keeping them? Read the annotations if you must, but they won’t get you far. Mr. Gladwell needs a David-Goliath school story, so he creates one. His version happens to have common sense on its side, even if it is in no way definitive or complete.

The book’s middle section is its messiest. It scrambles through the stories of the trial lawyer David Boies, the spiky-haired film producer Brian Grazer, the Goldman Sachs president Gary D. Cohn, the pioneering leukemia oncologist Jay Freireich and the civil rights leaders who, according to Mr. Gladwell, successfully conned Eugene Connor, known as Bull, the white supremacist public safety commissioner of Birmingham, Ala., in 1963.
87 2013-10-03 PARIS — Elisabeth von Thurn und Taxis, the globe-trotting princess who is a columnist for Vogue, arrived at her own dinner party at the Hôtel Prince de Galles on Tuesday night on the back of a motorcycle. To beat the traffic, Parisians gad about on motorbikes these days, ever since Uber introduced the bike option here last year.

“You can get anywhere in 10 minutes,” Ms. von Thurn und Taxis said as she adjusted a thin silver band that rested on her forehead. “The only problem is your hair.”

Before Carine Roitfeld’s seasonal Paris Fashion Week send-off party, Ms. von Thurn und Taxis had gathered a small crew that included the designers Giambattista Valli, Esteban Cortázar, Max Osterweis and Nicholas Kirkwood. And Lena Dunham, who, believe it or not, had never been to Paris.

“It has been a major oversight in my life,” she said.

Ms. Dunham wore a simple frock with a loose white top, recounting how she had visited the Musée d’Orsay earlier that day but, because of a ticketing mess and a 25-minute wait, was unable to enter its titillating special exhibition on the history of the male nude. She and a friend stood outside the entrance, peering in hopelessly before they finally gave up.

As the clock struck 11 p.m. the guests began to disperse, on their way to Ms. Roitfeld’s party at the fancy-pants restaurant Pavillon Ledoyen, right behind the Petit Palais museum, that followed a screening of “Mademoiselle C,” the documentary about her new magazine. Ms. Roitfeld’s parties, as they have grown larger, and larger, have lost some of the je ne sais quoi of their earlier days, the “quoi” being space to breathe.
88 2013-10-03 On Tuesday, millions of Americans voted with their mice. Obamacare is here to stay, and the Republican Party is wrong to stand in its way; Republicans will increasingly pay a political penalty for their opposition as more and more Americans come to realize the benefits of Obamacare.

Your Oct. 2 front-page article says that more than 2.8 million people tried to sign up for the new health care system and that many were frustrated by error messages and such.

I tried to sign up. I had absolutely no difficulty getting all the answers I needed and all the forms to fill out on the very first try. The entire process was simple, direct and easy to follow.

Don’t forget all of us who, while maybe not newsworthy, are a large part of the equation.

Sadly, the Republicans will fail to notice that the “jamming” of the health care enrollment Web sites is a result of Americans’ seeking health care coverage. Instead, they continue to prevent our Republic from moving forward toward justice and equality for all.
89 2013-10-03 In fact, the suspense over the fate of the ordinance on Wednesday seemed artificial. Though it might have protected some crucial Congress allies, its timing was dismal politically, given rising public anger over official corruption, and India’s president had expressed hesitation about signing it.

But the confusion and frustration over Mr. Gandhi’s behavior seemed genuine enough. Often criticized for remaining aloof from the political process, he had broken a number of unwritten rules that serve to protect the party from undue risk. For one thing, it would have been a simple enough matter for him, as the party’s vice president, to kill the ordinance quietly at an earlier stage.

He had also departed from one of his mother’s ground rules: a meticulous display of respect for Mr. Singh, her loyal, soft-spoken prime minister, who has proved politically weak during a punishing season for Congress.

Events of the last few years — corruption scandals and a drumbeat of demand for new laws — have transformed the political landscape in India, leaving leaders scrambling for new approaches, said Pratap Bhanu Mehta, president of the Center for Policy Research in New Delhi. Meanwhile, the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party’s candidate, Narendra Modi, 63, is attracting throngs to rallies slamming Congress, leading one young crowd in an Obama-esque chant of “Yes, we can!”

“There is a clamor for change of some kind, and what Rahul seems to be saying, is, ‘Let me catch up with that clamor,’ ” Mr. Mehta said. “There is a sense in both parties, for good and for ill, that you can’t do politics as usual. But they’re kind of groping around to understand what that means.”

He was skeptical, however, that Mr. Gandhi would benefit much from outmuscling the much older prime minister.

“One thing that Rahul had going for him — there was a sense that people didn’t know what he stood for, but he gave the impression that he was a sincere guy,” Mr. Mehta said. “The fact that he could humiliate the office of the prime minister in the way that he did, and do it with someone as loyal as Manmohan Singh — it’s not clear that it’s inspired people to go along with him as a leader.”

Mr. Gandhi has never held a cabinet-level post, though they have been offered, and at times it has been unclear whether he wanted to lead India at all. He is absent from the noisy policy debates that define political life here and, like his mother, avoids contact with the news media.

But his lineage made him a sensation, and Congress has offered him as a symbol of generational change. During his early campaigns, near-stampedes would break out when he toured villages, crossing carpets of rose petals and shaking so many hands that, by the end of one day on the road, his right hand was wrapped in bandages.

Mr. Gandhi’s family has led modern India for most of its 66-year history. If he becomes prime minister, he will follow in the footsteps of his father, Rajiv; his grandmother, Indira; and his great-grandfather, Jawaharlal Nehru. Still, he has occasionally donned the mantle of an internal dissident. This year, shortly after becoming the party’s vice president, he delivered a speech that sharply criticized the over-concentration of power in India. It was a paradoxical stance, given that power is concentrated in the hands of his own family.

“Why is our youth angry?” he asked in the speech. “Why are they out on the street? They are angry because they are alienated. They are excluded from the political class.”

Jatin Gandhi, the co-author of “Rahul,” a 2012 biography (and no relation), said Mr. Gandhi and his advisers were likely “elated” by Wednesday’s events, in part because Mr. Gandhi had managed to grab the spotlight from Mr. Modi. The dust-up, he said, reflected the “national mood” in an electorate restless for change and overwhelmingly dominated by young people, but hardly represented a clash between generations.

“We are a young nation, and we have a very large representation within the political classes,” he said. “But most of the young people in politics are actually from dynasties. You don’t question the wisdom of your mother and father if you inherited your position from them.”
90 2013-10-03 As the traffic levels remained high, many state-run systems seemed to be functioning, but the federal system operating the exchanges for 34 states remained trouble-plagued....
91 2013-10-03 In an interview at the United Nations, Ms. Kane, a veteran United Nations diplomat from Germany who is an expert in peacekeeping and disarmament issues, offered a glimpse of the painstaking, perilous work her team, comprising chemical weapons specialists and doctors, undertakes as it seeks to establish whether and when banned weapons were used.

On their first visit to Syria in August, she said, team members came under sniper fire in a buffer zone between government- and opposition-held areas in the Damascus suburbs. Already encumbered by hazardous materials suits, they worked in triple-digit summer temperatures and spoke to victims in Ghouta just days after they had been poisoned by what the investigators eventually determined was the nerve agent sarin. This sort of investigation had never been done before, Ms. Kane said.

“It was emotionally very draining,” she said.

Last week, the team, which returned to Syria to look into other suspected chemical attacks, faced a security threat that forced it to postpone its work a day, she said, declining to give details.

On both visits, following precise protocols meant to guarantee the authenticity of the evidence, investigators packed samples of blood, hair, soil and weapons fragments into special containers. Because hazardous chemicals are barred from private planes, Ms. Kane called on friendly governments — she would not identify them — to fly the samples on their official planes to Europe for testing.

Ms. Kane had pulled the team out at the end of August, over the objections of the Syrian government and only after promising that the team would return. On its second visit, which ended Monday, it looked into six other instances of suspected chemical munitions use, including three that the Syrian government said had occurred after Aug. 21 in the Damascus area.

On Tuesday, an advance group of weapons inspectors from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons arrived. That team, charged with carrying out the dismantling of Syria’s chemical stockpiles under the Security Council resolution, expects the Syrian government to deliver a detailed list of stockpile sites, materials and equipment, and supply information.

Ms. Kane’s team’s final report, covering all seven suspected episodes, is due at the end of October. Its initial report, on Sept. 16, focused only on the Ghouta attack and was the first independent accounting of what had happened; the forensic information it contained appeared to implicate the Syrian government.

So worried were the investigators that their findings would be leaked and cast doubt on their credibility, they delivered their report personally to the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, in New York.

Parts of that report were contested by Russia, which is Syria’s principal ally and which has contended that rebels were responsible for the Ghouta attack. Ms. Kane said she had instructed the team on its second visit to review those objections. She declined to give details.

She also said that both Syria and Russia had done their own investigations into the Khan al-Assal assault and sought to have her team accept their findings as evidence. But she said that was impossible, because of strict protocols for the integrity of the evidence. Her team only uses samples it has collected itself.

There is no chance of that now, she said, because the area is controlled by Islamic extremists affiliated with Al Qaeda. The team’s final report will include an entry on Khan al-Assal, without benefit of direct evidence.

While that attack drew global attention, it was the Aug. 21 assault, with video evidence of a mass atrocity, that precipitated a worldwide crisis. By then, the conflict had killed an estimated 100,000 and uprooted millions.

The Obama administration expressed outrage, blamed the government of President Bashar al-Assad and threatened a missile strike, only to be dissuaded by Russia. In turn, Russia persuaded Syria to join a global treaty to ban chemical weapons. The Assad government then agreed to allow its chemical weapons stockpile to be identified and destroyed by mid-2014.

What has dogged Ms. Kane’s team from the start is the limits of its mission: to establish whether chemical weapons were used, not by whom. This has been an abiding source of criticism, but United Nations officials have said it is for others to interpret the findings and seek accountability.

Ms. Kane said she was not in the least frustrated. She expressed confidence that the team’s findings would be used to hold the perpetrators accountable, even though nothing the United Nations has done yet would automatically lead to criminal prosecutions.

“You work this long in the U.N., you know that there are sometimes gray areas you just have to live with,” she said.
92 2013-10-03 A conversation with Alan Cohen, a founder of Liazon, one of the first companies to establish a private health insurance exchange....
93 2013-10-03 Though Greenpeace activists have run afoul of authorities in many countries over the years, the conservation group has said that the situation in Russia is its most serious since another Greenpeace ship, the Rainbow Warrior, sank off New Zealand in 1985. Mr. Willcox was captain of that ship as well.

“A charge of piracy is being laid against men and women whose only crime is to be possessed of a conscience,” Kumi Naidoo, the executive director of Greenpeace International, said in a statement. “This is an outrage, and represents nothing less than an assault on the very principle of peaceful protest. Any claim that these activists are pirates is as absurd as it is abominable.”

In Washington, the State Department said that two American citizens were aboard the Arctic Sunrise — Mr. Willcox, the captain, who had not yet been charged, and Dmitri Litvinov, who was among those charged on Wednesday. A department spokeswoman, Marie Harf, said that both had met with American consular officials from St. Petersburg, but she declined to comment on the criminal charges against them.

Russian prosecutors signaled their intention to file piracy charges soon after the Arctic Sunrise was seized. But Mr. Putin seemed to brush aside the idea in public remarks last week.

“I don’t know the details of what happened there, but obviously they are not pirates,” Mr. Putin said at an international conference on the Arctic. “However, formally, they tried to seize our platform.”

It was not clear why federal prosecutors did not follow Mr. Putin’s cue and went ahead with the charges.

The oil platform that the Greenpeace activists tried to scale belongs to Gazprom Neft, the oil subsidiary of the giant national gas company Gazprom. It is in the Pechora Sea, an arm of the Arctic Ocean off the northern coast of European Russia bounded by the Novaya Zemlya archipelago. The organization said it had no intention of taking control of the platform, only of protesting oil development in the Arctic, a fragile and changing environment made more accessible by global climate change, but still treacherous because of dense fogs, frequent gales and remaining sea ice.

The Russian authorities have insisted they will press ahead with an ambitious plan to drill for oil and natural gas in Arctic waters.

Amnesty International and the World Wildlife Fund have called on Russia to release the activists. In Europe, Greenpeace activists chained themselves to gasoline pumps in Germany and unveiled a banner at a soccer game in Switzerland to express solidarity with the activists detained in Russia.
94 2013-10-04 Pct. of those who selected a private plan that are ages 18-34 ▲ ▼

Pct. of those who selected a private plan that are ages 18-34

Pct. of those who selected a private plan that are ages 18-34

Pct. of those who selected a private plan that are ages 18-34

Pct. of those who selected a private plan that are ages 18-34

Pct. of those who selected a private plan that are ages 18-34

Pct. of those who selected a private plan that are ages 18-34

Pct. of those who selected a private plan that are ages 18-34

Pct. of those who selected a private plan that are ages 18-34

Pct. of those who selected a private plan that are ages 18-34

Pct. of those who selected a private plan that are ages 18-34
95 2013-10-04 Members of both parties say the federal shutdown has given the Obama administration time to work out the kinks in the insurance exchanges under its health care law....
96 2013-10-04 Friday’s selections from around the Web include the rise of people in Silicon Valley looking for a start-up to found. Plus, a down-and-out stock jumps because investors confused its stock ticker with Twitter’s....
97 2013-10-04 In T Magazine’s Fall Travel issue, we discover a more contemplative mode of getting there, and being there, whether the destination is a place or something less defined....
98 2013-10-04 The singer’s book is to be published by Penguin Classics on Oct. 17....
99 2013-10-04 We must raise the wage floor by: expanding our Paid Sick Leave law to include hundreds of thousands of working New Yorkers not currently covered, because you shouldn’t lose a day’s pay to take care of a sick child; passing a real living wage law that says if you are receiving city subsidies you are going to creating good paying jobs for New Yorkers; cracking down on wage theft that is all too prevalent in our economy; and supporting efforts to raise wages and improve conditions in low-wage sectors like the fast-food and carwash industries, where workers are struggling to assert their most basic rights to come together and bargain collectively for higher wages. This was a reference to an issue that Mr. de Blasio made a centerpiece of his campaign early on, as Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, pressured by business interests, delayed a vote on a paid sick leave bill. And when Ms. Quinn finally got a watered-down version passed, Mr. de Blasio was unimpressed. But the issue faded away.
100 2013-10-04 Ride along with the Times contributor Tom Voelk as he test-drives the newest cars on the market.
101 2013-10-04 A much-anticipated fossil must wait until spring before making its Washington entrance....
102 2013-10-04 A lengthy shutdown could have caused Maven spacecraft to miss a launch window, so NASA officials changed their minds....
103 2013-10-04 One group of tourists had to scrap a planned visit to the Grand Canyon and instead found themselves learning about the Navajo and the Hopi Indians, to whom the government shutdown has been a boon....
104 2013-10-04 First Friday jobs numbers from the Bureau of Labor Statistics are unavailable during the shutdown....
105 2013-10-04 Carl C. Icahn, the billionaire investor, disclosed that he is forgoing his right to have the Delaware Court of Chancery appraise the value of his shares in the computer company....
106 2013-10-04 As prospective investors pored over Twitter’s financial information, Twitter employees shared photographs and updates....
107 2013-10-04 The activist investor Daniel S. Loeb, whose hedge fund holds a 9.3 percent stake in the auction house, threatens a proxy battle....
108 2013-10-04 The combination of the government shutdown and the prospect of a debt limit dispute has bankers and business worried....
109 2013-10-04 No jobs report this week. What the shutdown is costing. Angie’s List cuts its prices....
110 2013-10-04 Twitter made public its prospectus for an initial public offering, providing a glimpse at the high-flying company’s financial health. | Big banks are guarding against possible mayhem from a debt ceiling crisis. | The White House has begun to vet...
111 2013-10-04 The British bank raised $9 billion by selling 94.6 percent of the rights issue, or three billion shares....
112 2013-10-04 Indians have visa-free access to only 52 countries, which could be a reflection that they overstay in host countries....
113 2013-10-04 Re “Five Are Injured by an Attacker With Scissors in Riverside Park” (news article, Oct. 2):

The ghastly rampage in which an apparent madman wounded several people, including a child, in Riverside Park tells us how much could be accomplished by effective gun control.

With an automatic weapon, this apparently deranged man might have murdered dozens. With scissors, he maimed only a few.
114 2013-10-04 The report of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission has withstood intense scrutiny and stands as a factual, historical accounting of the causes of the 2008 financial crisis. Unfortunately, William D. Cohan’s account (Sunday Review, Sept. 22) of the experience of one person who appeared before the commission did not mention important information.

It was the commission that brought Richard M. Bowen III forward to testify under oath about his allegations of wrongdoing in mortgage underwriting by Citigroup. The commission’s final report in 2011 prominently featured his allegations.

While Mr. Cohan asserts that the commission’s staff told Mr. Bowen not to testify about his concerns that Citigroup misrepresented its certifications of internal controls, Mr. Bowen’s public testimony included significant information about breakdowns in internal controls at the bank.

Contrary to the article’s implication that the commission caved to pressure from Citigroup, the commission referred Mr. Bowen’s allegations of internal control violations and fraud at Citigroup to the Justice Department for further investigation and, if warranted, prosecution.

The writer was chairman of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, 2009-11.
115 2013-10-04 Credit: Diego Ibarra Sanchez for The New York Times
116 2013-10-04 The National Collegiate Athletic Association is now the sole defendant in a lawsuit that could alter the college sports business model, under which everybody — the N.C.A.A., universities, media companies, coaches — makes money except the student athletes.

In 2009, Ed O’Bannon, a former basketball star for the University of California, Los Angeles, sued the N.C.A.A. for licensing his “likeness” for use in video games and broadcasts without permission or payment. Last week, two other defendants in the suit, E.A. Sports and Collegiate Licensing Company, settled a consolidated suit for $40 million; current and former players whose likenesses appeared in the video games could potentially get a share.

But the N.C.A.A. won’t go along. Its chief legal officer, Donald Remy, said last week that he would take the case “all the way to the Supreme Court” if necessary. The involvement of current players creates an immediate problem for the N.C.A.A., which must decide if accepting settlement money counts as a violation of amateur status for the players. Of course, that issue pales in comparison to the trouble the N.C.A.A. will face if it loses this suit.

Mr. O’Bannon’s lawyers contend that the N.C.A.A. and its member schools violate antitrust law by requiring student-athletes to sign a contract permitting the N.C.A.A. to use their images to promote events or championships. Players essentially forfeit their rights to enter into individual licensing agreements, they say, while the N.C.A.A. is free to sell their names, images and likenesses without passing along a cent. A loss at trial for the N.C.A.A. could establish the principle that players have the right to share in the billions of dollars of revenue generated by their labor, including from television broadcast contracts — a result the association desperately fears.

The N.C.A.A. argues that players should get nothing more than a scholarship (which colleges may cancel), because payment from colleges or outside companies would ruin the amateur model of collegiate sports. That model, however, is fundamentally unfair. Walter Byers, the first executive director of the N.C.A.A. and now a critic of the way it does business, aptly described the athletes’ plight in his memoir: “The college player cannot sell his own feet (the coach does that) nor can he sell his own name (the college will do that). This is the plantation mentality resurrected and blessed by today’s campus executives.”
117 2013-10-04 “What you see in the popular press is just one part of the picture,” said Mark Mobius, a fund manager at Franklin Templeton Investments, which has more than $1 billion invested in Pakistan stocks, mostly in the energy sector. “There’s another side to these countries, where life goes on. And that’s what we focus on.”

The gloomy image of Pakistan obscures positive aspects of its economy that, investors say, make some companies an attractive bet. Beyond the headline news, much of the country is getting on with normal life. And with a population estimated at nearly 200 million people — a high proportion of them young — Pakistan offers a large, lucrative market for consumer goods, construction and financial services firms, which constitute the bulk of the Karachi stock market.

The biggest publicly listed companies — like the multinational Nestlé, the Oil and Gas Development Company and Fauji Fertilizer, a military-run conglomerate — pay handsome dividends, which makes them attractive to foreign investors.

And the recent election victory of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, a business tycoon, has injected confidence into the financial community, which had been wary of the previous government.

For a time, Pakistani stocks were undervalued by as much as 50 percent to account for risk, compared with a regional discount of about 20 percent, said Taha Javed, a financial analyst in Karachi. Now, as foreign investors pile in, he said, “we are catching up.”

Still, there is much to overlook. With painful power shortages, a sliding national currency and dwindling foreign reserves, Pakistan’s economy has been on life support in recent years. In August, the International Monetary Fund approved a $6.6 billion emergency loan, on top of $5 billion that Pakistan already owes the fund.

Business safety is a problem. Paramilitary security forces combed Karachi last week as part of a fresh effort to combat criminal gangs that have terrorized the city. Kidnapping for ransom is common. In a “livability” survey of 140 world cities, published by the Economist Intelligence Unit in August, Karachi shared the fourth-to-last rank with the Algerian capital, Algiers. And that is only part of Pakistan’s broader security problem, with militant groups and frequent violence against religious and ethnic minorities.

And for all its impressive growth, the stock market can be worryingly unstable, as a sudden dive of about 5 percent last week demonstrated. That slump has now stabilized — it was more of a correction than a crash, it seems — but the market has a history of volatility.

The Karachi exchange closed for four months in late 2008 after an abrupt drop in prices; more recently, it has faced allegations by the news media of insider trading and cronyism. A former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan, which regulates the market, is being prosecuted for corruption and tax evasion.

The juxtaposition of a booming stock market with bombs and economic austerity suggests sides to Pakistan, both positive and negative, that are little appreciated outside the country. It shows resilience and business acumen, certainly, but also worrisome fragmentation in a society where rich and poor live ever further apart.

In Karachi, where most big companies and banks have their headquarters, about 2,500 people died violently last year. But the bloodshed is concentrated in the city’s working-class areas, allowing the wealthy to continue with life as normal — with some adjustments like layers of security barriers and heavily armed private security forces.

“As far as the killings go, forget about it — that’s part of life,” said Zain Hussain, chief executive of the stock brokerage firm Taurus Securities. “It’s something that I am immune to, and so are most investors.”

Despite some recent overhauls, experts say the exchange is also still perilously underregulated. The current boom was bolstered last year by a law that allowed investors to put money into stocks without having to explain its origin — effectively facilitating money laundering, critics said.

“The penalties are minimal here,” said Javed Hassan, chief executive of the Institute of Capital Markets, a body that licenses participants in the Karachi exchange. “Nobody has gone to jail for manipulating the market.”

While the Karachi market’s success is impressive, it has been built on the money of a small number of foreign investors like Mr. Mobius. If they were to withdraw precipitously, for whatever reasons, prices would most likely tumble again.

“Despite all the positives,” said Muddassar Malik, chief executive of BMA Funds, an investment firm, “it’s not a country for the fainthearted.”
118 2013-10-04 Thirteen members of a hacking collective that calls itself Anonymous were indicted on Thursday on charges that they conspired to coordinate attacks against prominent Web sites.

The 13 are accused of bringing down at least six Web sites, including those belonging to the Recording Industry Association of America, Visa and MasterCard.

The attacks caused “significant damage to the victims,” the indictment said.

The attacks, carried out from September 2010 to January 2011, were part of campaign called Operation Payback, which started as an effort to support file-sharing sites but later rallied around WikiLeaks and its founder, Julian Assange.

Hackers took down the sites by inflicting a denial of service, or DDoS, attack, in which they fired Web traffic at a site until it collapsed under the load. Though the indictment mentions 13 hackers, thousands more participated in the attack by clicking on Web links that temporarily turned their computers into a digital fire hose aimed at each victim, in this case the Web sites.

According to the indictment, which was handed up at Federal District Court in Alexandria, Va., the hackers’ tool of choice was a simple open-source application known as Low Orbit Ion Cannon, which requires very little technical know-how.
119 2013-10-04 GLENDALE, Ariz. — Alain Vigneault is about to start his 12th season as an N.H.L. coach, but of course this time is different. After the morning skate ahead of the Rangers’ opener against the Phoenix Coyotes here Thursday, he talked about how he felt as he prepared to coach his first regular-season game with the Blueshirts.

“I would say I have more nerves now than if I had been seven years with the same team,” said Vigneault, who coached the Vancouver Canucks for the past seven seasons and the Montreal Canadiens from 1997 to 2000. “It’s the first game of the regular season, but it’s also my first game with the New York Rangers. That for me is as big as my first game with the Habs or my first game with Vancouver after six years of not being in the league. I’m very, very excited and very nervous, too.”

Vigneault did not seem nervous. He remained as outgoing and good-natured as he was throughout training camp and throughout his tenure with the Canucks. His demeanor inevitably called to mind that of his predecessor, John Tortorella, who would be visibly tighter before big events like season openers, his answers generally more clipped.

Vigneault was asked whether he felt he knew his players going into the opener, which is the first game of a nine-game trip to begin the season.

“No, this is still very much a work in progress here,” he said. “Finding out about this team, the players, on a daily basis, and as we find out more, I’m sure we’re going to get better. It’s only been three weeks now, and that’s not a very long time with the group.”

Perhaps not, but the lines seemed set. Two wings were out: the team’s captain, Ryan Callahan, skated but was to sit out the opener as he recovers from off-season shoulder surgery, and Carl Hagelin did not make the trip. He is out for at least 10 games after having a similar shoulder operation.
120 2013-10-04 New York City Opera, which was founded 70 years ago to help bring opera to the masses, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on Thursday after an urgent $7 million fund-raising appeal fell short last month.

The dying opera company said in court papers filed in United States Bankruptcy Court in the Southern District of New York that its assets were worth $7.7 million — which includes the remainder of its endowment and some pledges that have not been received — and that it had liabilities of $5.6 million, including pension obligations. The company said in court papers that it was evaluating the restrictions on the endowment fund and that it would not withdraw money from it without court permission.

The filings show in stark legalese the death throes of the company that George Steel, its final general manager, describes in court papers as “one of America’s pre-eminent cultural institutions.” The troupe, which balanced its budget over the last two years, still had an accumulated deficit of $44 million as of last year, the filing said. Its endowment, which was once $55 million, had dwindled to around $4.5 million.

“Because of N.Y.C. Opera’s lack of liquidity, pension obligations and the many other issues listed above, N.Y.C. Opera made the difficult but necessary decision to file for Chapter 11 protection,” Mr. Steel said in court papers.

City Opera’s biggest listed creditor after its pensions is its former housemate, New York City Ballet, the company with which it shared a Lincoln Center home for decades. City Ballet has a $1.6 million claim, according to the bankruptcy filing, related to City Opera’s 2011 departure from the performance space they shared, the David H. Koch Theater. The opera’s other creditors included former chorus members who are owed severance pay, the musicians’ health benefits fund and the landlord of the offices that the company moved to in Lower Manhattan after leaving Lincoln Center.

Several creditors said in interviews that they were not optimistic that they would get what they are owed.
121 2013-10-04 Since it was founded in 1979, the annual Celebrate Brooklyn! music festival in Prospect Park — the strains of which the Miser has been known to enjoy, cold beverage in hand, as they stream through the living room window on summer nights — has been the primary public face of BRIC, an arts and technology incubator operating out of modest headquarters in a former vaudeville playhouse.

This weekend, BRIC will host a series of exhibitions and performances to celebrate the transformation of its Fort Greene operation into BRIC House, an arts center designed to bring all of its programs under one roof (except Celebrate Brooklyn!, which will remain in the park).

On Saturday, a block party with food trucks, live music and family activities will run from 2 to 10 p.m. The Natural Expressions Rhythm Band, a Brooklyn percussion ensemble, will perform calypso and steel-band-inspired music on common, exotic and found instruments, alongside the Brooklyn Jumbies, who will perform Afro-Caribbean carnival dances — on stilts. At 7:30 p.m. in the ballroom, the Revive Big Band will honor the trumpeter Freddie Hubbard, updating the venerable big-band tradition with an unmistakable Brooklyn twist.

Two visual-art exhibitions will be open all weekend. On view in the main gallery space, from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m., “Housewarming: Notions of Home From the Center of the Universe” will feature the work of a dozen artists who have explored the concept of home in its various manifestations.

On view in the Artists Studio from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. will be “Armchair Parade,” a sprawling interactive installation created by the musician Mark Stewart, the theater director Julian Crouch and the filmmaker Ragnar Freidank, featuring TV-watching puppets and a giant musical instrument that the public is invited to play.
122 2013-10-04 Kalyanee Mam’s documentary “A River Changes Course” has won several prizes at film festivals, and deservedly so. Her intimate portrait of three Cambodian families struggling to maintain their ways of life amid environmental degradation caused by development is a beautiful example of the form. Instead of delving into the politics of their plight, Ms. Mam delivers a universal story.

Around Cambodia (and the world), the problems are similar: life is one sacrifice after another; parents’ dreams for their children are dashed by misfortune; and the natural world slowly buckles under the demands of globalization. There’s urban migration, too, as one family, drowning in debt, reluctantly sends a daughter, Khieu Mok, from its rice fields to Phnom Penh, where she is hired at a garment factory. The crowded city is a stark contrast to the lush green fields, but the pay ($61 a month; $100 with overtime) can’t be passed up.

In central Cambodia, Sari Math, who quit school at 14, navigates gray waters with his father, though plummeting fish stocks force the family to send him to plant cassava for the Chinese. “Sari’s future can only be a struggle,” his father says. Whatever potential he had (the camera often catches him reading and writing) is moot. In the jungle, Sav Samourn can only watch as swaths of forest are replaced by factories. The tigers and elephants have disappeared. Now, she says, “We’re afraid of people.”

Ms. Mam (a cinematographer of the documentary “Inside Job,” whose family fled Cambodia in 1981) doesn’t offer narration, and, at times, viewers may crave context. But this human story is profound enough to stand on its own.
123 2013-10-04 The Standard & Poor’s 500 index dropped 15.21 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,678.66 as of 3:05 p.m. Eastern, its lowest point since Sept. 9.

The index had fallen by as much as 23 points but pared some of its loss after The New York Times reported that the Republican House Speaker, John A. Boehner, had told his party that he would not let the nation default. Stocks also dipped briefly in afternoon trading on reports that shots had been fired at the Capitol.

Lawmakers must periodically raise the nation’s borrowing limit to keep United States funds flowing, but the once-routine matter has now become a bargaining chip in battles over the federal budget deficit. Failure to raise the limit could cause the country to miss payments on its debt.

In other trading, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 136.66 points, or 0.9 percent, to 14,996.48. The Nasdaq composite fell 40.68points, or 1.07 percent, to 3,774.34.

A steeper slide in the stock market will most likely intensify the pressure on lawmakers, forcing them to broker a deal to end the budget fight, said Stacey Nutt, chief investment officer at ClariVest Asset Management, adding: “The politicians have a vested interest in the market not going down.”

Despite the slump during the last two weeks, stocks are still close to the record levels they reached last month. The S.& P. 500 is up 17 percent so far this year, having climbed as much as 21 percent by Sept. 18.

“Investors have to look beyond all of this dysfunction in Washington to see what is a reasonably positive investment landscape beyond it,” said Cam Albright, director of asset allocation for Wilmington Trust Investment Advisors. “Ultimately, you are going to have a resolution to it, but it’s going to get a lot more difficult and a lot trickier before it gets any easier.”

The dollar dropped against the euro and the Japanese yen, continuing a recent slide. The dollar index, which measures the United States currency against a group of other major currencies, has declined for five days.

In government bond trading, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 2.61 percent from 2.62 percent Wednesday.
124 2013-10-05 Spreading the Word From Behind Bars
125 2013-10-05 Another museum in Los Angeles will be free to the public ....
126 2013-10-05 No more presumption of GOP competence....
127 2013-10-05 “I’ve always struggled against left-handed hitters, and I thought adding the curveball to my mix would make me a better pitcher,” Scherzer, a right-hander, said the day before Game 1. “And the more I’ve gotten a feel for it, it gives me the ability to throw three different pitches to left-handers.”

Oakland played the percentages Friday by stocking its batting order with left-handers. But the only hit Scherzer allowed in the first six innings was a second-inning triple by Cespedes, who bats right-handed.

Cespedes got the third hit off Scherzer, too, following a single by Brandon Moss with a home run hit deep into the left-field bleachers. That gave temporary hope to the home crowd. But after a visit to the mound from Leyland — “He told me he was all right, and that was good enough for me,” Leyland said — Scherzer got three more outs on a mix of pitches, then handed the final two innings to the bullpen.

Scherzer’s right eye is blue, his left eye is brown, and he speaks with a slight smile. “The crowd was roaring, everyone was on their feet,” he said. “And to get those outs was big because I was then able to pass it on to the rest of the pen.”

Oakland had uncovered more than 12,000 seats in the third deck, usually hidden under tarps, lifting the announced attendance to 48,401 and the potential decibel level by a third, too. It was the largest home crowd for an A’s game since a 2004 regular-season game against the cross-bay San Francisco Giants.

The A’s and the Tigers are meeting in a best-of-five division series for the second season in a row. Colon missed the series last year because he was serving a 50-game suspension for testing positive for an excessive level of testosterone. The A’s re-signed him for this season, paying him $3 million, and at 40, he became the oldest pitcher to start a postseason game for Oakland.

Colon, 18-6 with a 2.65 E.R.A. during the season, had not allowed three earned runs in a game since Aug. 13. In his last six starts, he had allowed a total of five earned runs.

But Austin Jackson opened Friday’s game with a double down the right-field line, and he scored on Miguel Cabrera’s single. Torii Hunter, hit by a Colon pitch, scored on a double-play ball hit by Prince Fielder. Victor Martinez followed with a double and scored the third run on Alex Avila’s single.

“He got out of sync,” Oakland Manager Bob Melvin said of Colon. “You saw balls up in the zone, which you normally don’t see from him. Hits a batter. So it took him an inning to get back into his rhythm.”

Colon did not allow another run over six innings. He was helped in the sixth by a pinpoint throw from right fielder Josh Reddick to catcher Stephen Vogt, who tagged out Martinez as he was trying to score from second on a single.

Scherzer and the Tigers already had all the cushion they needed in a game that called to mind Scherzer’s start against the A’s in last year’s divisional series. In Game 4 in Oakland, he pitched into the sixth inning, leaving with a 2-1 lead after allowing just three hits and an unearned run while striking out eight. But in that game, the A’s came back after Scherzer left, scoring three times in the bottom of the ninth to win, 4-3, and send the series to a deciding fifth game, in which Verlander pitched a shutout.

Verlander, who in 2011 was the A.L.’s Cy Young Award winner and most valuable player, is scheduled to pitch Game 2 on Saturday night. Oakland will start the rookie Sonny Gray, a daunting assignment in a series that will head to Detroit for Game 3 — and Game 4, if necessary.

Last year, the Tigers advanced to the World Series, losing to the Giants. The A’s, despite making the playoffs seven times in the past 14 years, have won just one playoff series since 1992.
128 2013-10-05 Rafael Nadal rallied for a 2-6, 6-4, 6-1 win over Fabio Fognini in the quarterfinals of the China Open in Beijing. Novak Djokovic, the defending champion, advanced with an impressive 6-1, 6-2 win over Sam Querrey. In women’s play, top-ranked Serena Williams beat the former No. 1 Caroline Wozniacki, 6-1, 6-4.
129 2013-10-05 Matt Moulson’s goal in the sixth round of a shootout lifted the visiting Islanders to a season-opening 4-3 victory over the Devils on Friday night.

Evgeni Nabokov made 26 saves and stopped all six Devils attempts in the shootout as the Islanders won an opener for the first time since 2007. Michael Grabner had two goals and an assist for the Islanders.

The recently signed free agent Damien Brunner scored twice for the Devils, and Martin Brodeur had 23 saves in his first game of the season. Cory Schneider was in goal in the Devils’ 3-0 loss in Pittsburgh on Thursday.

Brodeur stopped the Islanders’ first five shootout attempts before Moulson beat him just under the crossbar. Moulson joked that he told Coach Jack Capuano that he should have shot earlier in the shootout.

“The puck kind of hopped up, and luckily I chipped it up,” Moulson said.

SENATORS 1, SABRES 0 Erik Karlsson sneaked a one-timer under Ryan Miller’s legs with 1 minute 35 seconds left in the third period, giving Ottawa a victory at Buffalo. Craig Anderson stopped 35 shots to earn his 23rd career shutout. Miller made 45 saves for the Sabres.

RED WINGS 3, HURRICANES 2 Stephen Weiss scored at 3:13 of overtime, lifting Detroit to a comeback win at Carolina. The Red Wings captain Henrik Zetterberg’s goal with 16.4 seconds left in regulation forced the extra period.
130 2013-10-05 Particularly in light of that episode, the uproar over the play brought out a certain defensiveness on campus among some students, but many applauded what they say was a thorough and swift response from the university. The actors themselves were thrust into a national spotlight. Well-wishers from theater communities in Los Angeles and New York reached out to the school in a show of support.

So did the Matthew Shepard Foundation, founded after Mr. Shepard, a gay University of Wyoming student, was robbed, beaten and tied to a fence on a rural road in 1998. He was found 18 hours later, barely alive, and died from the attack. The play is based on his death.

“I was disappointed to see that a number of Ole Miss football players and others in the audience decided to interrupt a performance of the play using anti-gay slurs,” said his mother, Judy Shepard. “Using hate-filled words to interrupt a play about anti-gay hate is a sad irony.”

Officials and students at the school, including some who were heckled during the play, were quick to point out that the football players were not the only students disrupting the performance, and said blaming the football program was wrong.

Some said the episode was more about immature theatergoers and the background from which the students came.

“It was a bunch of teenage boys being stupid,” said Ashley Kozich, 20, who had heard what happened but said that not too many people on campus were talking about it. “Probably if it happened at any other school it would not be getting all this attention.”

In an interview on campus on Friday, Daniel W. Jones, the chancellor, called it painful, but also saw it as learning opportunity for the students involved.

“A lot of students come here with less exposure to social issues than they might at other schools,” he said. “Because of our unique history of injustice, we have a larger responsibility and opportunity to deal with intolerance in any form.”

Once an investigation of the heckling on Tuesday is concluded, the school will consider disciplinary action, which could range from a public apology to expulsion, Dr. Jones said.

In a report issued Friday evening, the school’s bias response team recommended that every student who attended the play be ordered to attend an educational session led by faculty and others.

About 125 people were at the Meek Auditorium on Tuesday. Many were students taking a theater appreciation class.

There are conflicting reports about whether a derogatory word for a homosexual man was used, but several people who attended agree that catcalls, giggling, inappropriate coughing and burping began during the first act and escalated in the second act.

The harassment included making fun of the weight of one of the actors and commenting on the body of the stage manager who told the audience after intermission to silence their cellphones.

A student working on the production noticed that football players were among the hecklers and contacted the athletic department. An administrator hurried to the theater.

A member of the team apologized to cast members on Tuesday, said Adam Ganucheau, 21, editor in chief of The Daily Mississippian, which first reported the story on Thursday. He said Friday in an interview that no one had traced a homophobic slur to a football player.

After the story came out, the chancellor and the school’s athletic director both issued statements deploring the episode. Hugh Freeze, the football coach, said on Twitter that “we certainly do not condone any actions that offend or hurt people in any way.”

For the cast members, who gathered in the theater at noon Friday to discuss the episode and listen to encouraging words from administrators and theater faculty, the fact that the play provoked such strong reaction was, in a way, exactly what theater is supposed to do.

“We in 2013 like to think that we’ve come a long way, but this has opened our eyes that we haven’t,” said Garrison Gibbons, 20, an openly gay theater major who was one of the biggest targets of the audience’s behavior. “I’d like to think something good can come out of this,” he said.

Then he left to go prepare for Friday’s performance.
131 2013-10-05 Pictures From the Week in Business
132 2013-10-05 “It happens once in a while,” Rays Manager Joe Maddon said. “Normally, when it happens in the regular season, I just say throw that one in the garbage can. And being that’s the first of five, let’s do the same thing now.”

The win was the Red Sox’ first in the postseason since Game 6 of the 2008 American League Championship Series, also against the Rays. Tampa Bay came back the next day to win Game 7 and earn its only trip to the World Series.

On Friday, Boston enjoyed a strong pitching performance from Jon Lester and pounced on the Rays’ mistakes, scoring five runs in the fourth inning thanks to several defensive gaffes, the misplay by Myers being the most glaring.

With Dustin Pedroia on first base and nobody out in the fourth, Ortiz hit a fly ball to right field that was deep but playable. As Myers went back toward the Red Sox’ bullpen, he put out his right arm to signal to Jennings that he had the ball. But at the last instant, Myers put his hands down and took a step forward to get out of the way, assuming Jennings would make the play.

But Jennings did not call Myers off the ball. Myers just thought he saw Jennings, and because the center fielder is the defensive captain in the outfield, Myers cleared out of the way. The ball bounced between them and into the bullpen for a ground-rule double.

After the play, which opened the gates to five runs, Martinez told Myers to forget about it and stay focused on the game. But in the eighth inning, after checking with Jennings, Martinez went back to Myers and asked for a full account.

With Pedroia on third and Ortiz on second, the Rays’ nightmare inning was only beginning. Mike Napoli popped out to second, but Jonny Gomes hit another high fly ball, this one to left field. With the Green Monster looming behind him, left fielder Sean Rodriguez, who had homered in the second inning for the first run of the game, turned his back and ran away from the wall to catch the ball on the bounce.

It hit the base of the wall, only inches from the ground. It was catchable, but instead it went for a two-run double, with Pedroia and Ortiz scoring. Now the crowd began to hound Myers, sarcastically chanting his name in his playoff debut.

“It’s not easy for something like that to happen, especially in a situation like that,” Myers said. “It gave them the momentum. So it’s a tough situation for me to be in.”

And it got worse as the Red Sox piled on more hits and runs, taking advantage of a passed ball and two more misplayed balls as the Rays were unable to make simple plays behind Matt Moore, their starter, who went 17-4 in the regular season.

“He got six outs in that inning,” Maddon said. “Six legitimate outs he had to get to get through that inning.”

Lester, meanwhile, allowed only three hits in his seven and two-thirds innings. Both Tampa Bay runs came on solo homers, by Rodriguez and Ben Zobrist.

“That’s as powerful stuff as Jon’s had for us all year long,” Red Sox Manager John Farrell said.

On Saturday, David Price, who spent Thursday riding a rental bike around Boston, faces John Lackey in Game 2.

“I’ve learned one main thing regarding baseball,” Maddon said. “Twenty-four hours can make a huge difference. That’s just one game, baby. That’s just one. We’ll be back tomorrow, I promise you. We will not be affected mentally by tonight’s game. We’ll be ready to play.”
133 2013-10-05 In the aftermath of the navy yard rampage, ordered a review of how security clearances and background checks are conducted for all federal government employees and contractors.

The Hewlett-Packard investigation provided new details about episodes in early August where Mr. Alexis claimed that he was being followed and was hearing voices sent by a “microwave machine.”

The episodes began on Aug. 4 at an airport in , Va., where Mr. Alexis got into an argument with a family that he thought was mocking him. According to the Hewlett-Packard investigation, Mr. Alexis called a project coordinator at the Experts and told her that he was becoming angry because people were making fun of him. She tried to calm him down and told him to get away from the people, the investigation found.

After he reached his destination, , R.I., Mr. Alexis continued to complain that the family was following him. He complained of hearing loud voices in his hotel room, though hotel employees could not hear them, knocked on doors in search of the noise and changed hotels. He called the Newport police and told them he was being followed. On Aug. 7, an employee of the Experts called the hotel and said they were bringing Mr. Alexis home because he was “unstable,” hotel logs show.

On Aug. 9, the director of human resources for the Experts spoke to Mr. Alexis’ mother, who told the director of his previous paranoid behavior, the person with knowledge of the investigation said. His mother told the director that Mr. Alexis’ paranoia tended to subside with time, but that “he likely needed to see a therapist.”

That same day, the director convened a meeting of “senior-level personnel” at the Experts who concluded that he could be sent back to work. The Hewlett-Packard investigation found that the Experts did not attempt to get Mr. Alexis to seek mental health care, a finding that the Experts has not disputed.

Mr. Alexis did visit a medical center in , R.I., on Aug. 23, the veterans department said, but he did not mention hearing voices and complained only of having trouble sleeping. He did not receive mental health counseling, the department said.

The Experts said in its statement that it kept a Hewlett-Packard manager apprised of Mr. Alexis’ situation in Newport. In an e-mail message, the Experts said that a Hewlett-Packard manager in Newport said she was “comfortable” having Mr. Alexis come back to work after he reported hearing voices.

Hewlett-Packard said its manager in Newport was a low-level employee who was not given full details by the Experts about Mr. Alexis’ problems. The company said it has placed that manager on administrative leave.

The Experts was founded in 1998 by a former Navy petty officer whose online biography says he also served in special intelligence communications at the Pentagon. The Experts, which is based in , Fla., and has worked with a number of large military contractors, claims about $60 million in annual revenue, almost half of which came from its work with Hewlett-Packard.

In a phone interview on Friday, Thomas E. Hoshko, the founder and chief executive, said the Experts could survive and even “thrive” without Hewlett-Packard. But he said the company might have to consider filing for bankruptcy protection because its main bank has imposed restrictive measures on its line of and the Experts might have trouble meeting its payroll next week.

“The last thing we needed was for the bank to not support us,” he said. “I am in survival mode.”

The company has already released about 250 workers who were assigned to the Hewlett-Packard subcontract, leaving it with about 350 contract workers, along with 100 employees.

Mr. Hoshko, 59, is known for his love of yachts and for hosting lavish functions for top customers and producers.

But the lives of most of the workers who get sent to jobs by the Experts are hardly as glamorous. One former worker who was with the Experts from 2009 to 2010, and had a similar job to Mr. Alexis, moved from to Rhode Island to and , making about $25 an hour.

“You have to be thick-skinned, and the customers know that you can’t say anything back to them because you are a subcontractor,” said the worker, who did not want his name used because he still works in the industry. “It’s a tough life.”
134 2013-10-05 Having women executives matters not just for purposes of equality, business analysts say, but for product development and the bottom line. More women use social media than men, according to a study last month by the Pew Research Center; men and women use Twitter roughly equally. Twitter earns revenue from advertising and women are the chief consumers.

Studies have all found the same thing, according to groups who advise and advocate for women in tech, including Astia and the Anita Borg Institute: Diversity benefits research, development and innovation, the heartbeat of Silicon Valley. It also increases profit, something Twitter sorely needs.

“People who build technology should represent the people who use it,” reads one of the mottos of the National Center for Women and Information Technology, another such group.

Yet women rarely fill the technical and engineering positions at Silicon Valley companies, which carry the most prestige and are most likely to lead to corner offices. Tellingly, Ms. Gadde, the only woman of high enough rank to appear on the public offering filing, is a lawyer, not an engineer — and until Aug. 30, her position was held by a man, Alex Macgillivray, who unexpectedly resigned.

Twitter has several women vice presidents in business, not technical, roles: Katie Jacobs Stanton in international market development, Chloe Sladden in media, Janet VanHuysse in human resources and Jana Messerschmidt in business development.

Twitter by no means stands out in Silicon Valley as being particularly unwelcoming to women. It spends money and time on initiatives like Girls Who Code, where its chief technology officer, Adam Messinger, is on the board. Still, Twitter’s entire staff reflects the gender imbalance at the highest levels. Significantly less than half of its engineers are women.

Twitter declined to comment on the issue Friday. But in an interview in March, Mr. Messinger said hiring more women engineers was a priority.

“Half our customers, more or less, are women, and we want to have empathy for our customers, and part of that is having a wide variety of opinions in-house,” Mr. Messinger said. “It’s also something a lot of people here think is the right thing to do.”

But, he added, “There is definitely a supply-side problem.”

Dick Costolo, Twitter’s chief executive, has prioritized finding a woman to be on the board, but has found it difficult, according to two people with knowledge of his plans who were not authorized to speak about them publicly.

“Everyone is trying for diversity, both gender and ethnic diversity, on boards and in operating positions,” said Rick Devine, chief executive of TalentSky, a Silicon Valley recruiting firm. “The issue isn’t the intention, the issue is just the paucity of candidates.”

But some people in the tech industry rolled their eyes at the pipeline excuse.

“Here is the thing about these companies: When something is a priority, they move fast and break things,” said Rachel Sklar, co-founder of TheLi.st, a digital media company for women in business. “In a year they knew they were going to go public, knowing this was an issue, in the era of ‘Lean In,’ it was not a priority.”

Even if the pool for board-qualified women in technology is shallow, Twitter’s business overlaps with other industries like media, entertainment and advertising. Its most recently appointed director, for instance, was Peter Chernin, former president of News Corporation.

Across Silicon Valley, start-ups tend to have all-male boards, largely because board members are the venture capitalists who invested in the company, 89 percent of whom are men, according to the National Venture Capital Association.

It is often when tech companies first face the pressures and demands of being a public company that they recruit women to their boards. Facebook and Zynga, for instance, added their first women directors after going public.

Not that the public companies fare much better. Ms. Sandberg; Ms. Mayer; Virginia M. Rometty, I.B.M.’s chief; and Meg Whitman, Hewlett-Packard’s chief, are exceptions to the rule. At Google, which made a point of hiring and promoting women when it started, the percentage of women in senior positions has shrunk in the last several years.

The rate at which women leave the tech industry is double the rate of men, according to “Women Technologists Count,” a report released last week by the Anita Borg Institute. The reasons include lack of promotions, time away from their families and aversion to company cultures.

Women tend not to join start-ups during the high-growth, pre-public offering period, often because the workplace environment is unwelcoming or they perceive it to be that way, said Poornima Vijayashanker, founder of Femgineer, which advises women on careers in tech, and the first woman engineer at Mint, the finance start-up acquired by Intuit. Then, when they do join, they often pursue roles in product management or customer support, even though hard-core engineering or finance roles are more likely to lead to top positions.

“Women need to become more technical,” Ms. Vijayashanker said. “It’s not enough to just learn how to code. They have to really cultivate their technical careers.”
135 2013-10-05 BRUSSELS — Transportation officials from around the world on Friday reached a preliminary agreement to develop global rules by the end of the decade that would control airline emissions. The action by the International Civil Aviation Organization, a United Nations body, represents the first major move toward industrywide rules to limit carbon pollution.

“I.C.A.O. has taken a significant step forward toward addressing aviation greenhouse gas emissions,” Anthony Foxx, the United States transportation secretary, said in a statement before the decision. The deal “ensures that all airlines are treated fairly wherever they fly.”

But the agreement is also a blow for the European Union. During the general assembly of the United Nations aviation agency, a number of countries continued to reject European regulations, increasing pressure on the region to scale back or repeal one of its flagship environmental laws.

European negotiators sought explicit endorsement to levy carbon fees on international airlines using European airports for the length of their flights within European airspace. But the agreement said that any states operating a regional system to levy fees on international carriers should seek permission from other countries first.

“This deal avoids a damaging conflict among trading partners,” Siim Kallas, the European commissioner for transport, said in a statement. “What this breakthrough means is that the industry can continue to grow and prosper, while at the same time showing that it is a responsible global citizen.”

Now, the European Union must decide whether to press ahead with its rules or repeal the law entirely.
136 2013-10-05 The Pakistani schoolgirl who survived a Taliban assassination attempt received a human rights award on Friday. The girl, Malala Yousafzai, an education activist, was shot as she traveled to school in northwest Pakistan last October. On Friday in London she was declared the winner of the Anna Politkovskaya Award. Ms. Politkovskaya, a Russian journalist and Kremlin critic who worked to uncover abuses in Chechnya, was killed in 2006. The award is given annually by the group RAW in WAR (Reach All Women in War) to a woman who defends human rights. The group said Ms. Yousafzai, 16, had been chosen “for her courage to speak out when nobody else dared,” for giving a voice to many women and girls and for promoting education for girls.
137 2013-10-05 Now, détente is in the air. In a whirlwind tour this week, Mr. de Blasio sat down with leaders in finance, real estate and technology — including Lloyd C. Blankfein and Philippe P. Dauman, the chief executives of Goldman Sachs and Viacom — to tell them face to face that his brand of liberalism is unapologetic but pragmatic, and can accommodate the value of business in a global city.

In meetings, Mr. de Blasio has not minced words, telling corporate leaders that he is a “Democrat with a capital ‘D’ ” and acknowledging that he subscribes to a deeply felt, left-leaning ideology. But the message, attendees say, has been clear: “We may not agree, but we want to work together.”

It is a fine line to walk for Mr. de Blasio, a proud liberal firebrand who is nonetheless aware that he must woo audiences far from his base as he starts to ponder how to govern a complex city.

Even as he outlined proposals on Friday for raising the wages of low-paid workers, Mr. de Blasio took pains to offer repeated, if qualified, praise for some of the economic development policies of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, whom he had largely denounced during his primary campaign.

At one point, Mr. de Blasio, currently the city’s public advocate, went as far as to describe himself as a “fiscal conservative,” saying he would be focused on keeping a balanced budget — which is required by law — as he tries to negotiate new contracts with municipal unions and to expand social services.

Mr. de Blasio’s self-description rankled his Republican opponent, Joseph J. Lhota, a former city budget chief whose campaign immediately issued a statement calling the assertion “delusional.”

“He’ll say anything to anyone to get elected,” said Mr. Lhota’s spokeswoman, Jessica Proud, who added that Mr. de Blasio’s commitment to raise taxes on the wealthy, and his record as a liberal councilman, contradicted any claims to conservatism.

Fiscal hawk or not, Mr. de Blasio has a formidable lead over Mr. Lhota in recent polls, and many members of the business world are letting their previous skepticism give way to a pragmatic sense of “work with what you’ve got.”

“There’s an old Irish expression: A new broom sweeps clean,” William T. Cunningham, a former communications director for Mr. Bloomberg, said as the attendees filed out after Mr. de Blasio’s speech.

“This room was filled with old brooms,” Mr. Cunningham said, referring to the audience. “They know the corners, and they’re trying to figure out what corners they can play in the next administration.”

Industry leaders are now lining up for time with Mr. de Blasio; weeks after dismissing the Democrat as a long shot, some are even boasting to friends about their ties to the man who could be New York’s next mayor.

Mr. de Blasio spoke on Monday at the headquarters of Gilt Groupe, the digital retailing concern, with dozens of leaders in the city’s nascent technology industry. On Wednesday, he was at the Yale Club in Midtown, meeting with financiers who are prominent Democratic donors, including the investment banker Blair W. Effron and the hedge fund manager Orin S. Kramer.

This week, Mr. de Blasio also spoke with Rupert Murdoch and Robert Thomson of News Corporation; Mortimer B. Zuckerman, the real estate mogul and publisher of The Daily News; Mr. Blankfein; and Mr. Dauman, who hosted a meeting at his office at Viacom.

Next week is already looking busy. Mr. de Blasio is set to attend a wine-tasting in his honor on Tuesday at a real estate investment firm in Midtown. The suggested contribution is $4,950, the maximum allowed by the city.

With access to Mr. de Blasio at a premium, his speech on Friday, sponsored by the Association for a Better New York, attracted about 800 people, including former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and former Mayor David N. Dinkins.

In remarks that lasted 30 minutes, Mr. de Blasio denounced “giveaways that disproportionately favor luxury housing,” fired a warning shot at the powerful real estate industry and said he would end “overly generous tax incentives for big corporations.” He also paid tribute to labor, saying “unions have provided the most secure path for Americans in low-wage jobs to join the middle class, and it can and must be that way again.”

He pledged to raise wages for city workers and require that businesses offer more sick days to their employees, two measures fiercely opposed by Mr. Bloomberg and elements of the business community. He promised to reinvest in the city’s colleges and local manufacturing companies. And he said he would entertain no tax cuts until after the municipal budget had been hammered out.

Some of the changes envisioned by Mr. de Blasio can be done by a mayor; others would require approval of the City Council or State Legislature.

Meanwhile, his fund-raising is continuing apace. On Tuesday, Mr. de Blasio spoke at Elmo, a lounge in Chelsea, during an event hosted by a lobbyist, Michael Woloz. In attendance were several prominent members of the yellow-taxi industry, which has given generously to Mr. de Blasio’s campaign, and representatives of real estate and energy companies, along with a group that wants to build a velodrome in the city.

As he walked onstage, Mr. de Blasio pretended to receive a call on his mobile phone from former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, who is hosting a fund-raiser for him later in the month.

“Hillary?” Mr. de Blasio said into the phone. “We’re setting the bar pretty high for you,” he added, alluding to the donors in the crowd.
138 2013-10-05 So what sparked this interest? Holly Bull, a long time gap-year consultant, said it could be when first Prince Harry, then Prince William, took a gap year, which are very common in Britain.

“That was a certain kind of endorsement from the Brits,” said Ms. Bull, whose organization, the Center for Interim Programs, has been doing gap year consulting since 1980.

Prince Harry’s gap year in 2003 between high school and entering the military stretched to two, and involved many photos in the British press of the young royal on horseback, learning to be a cattle hand in Australia.

British gap years tend to be looser and less structured than those in the United States and are often seen as “end up on a beach and get drunk,” said Ethan Knight, executive director of the American Gap Association, which accredits and sets standards for gap year programs.

But they’re also often cheaper. And that’s an important point, because many American gap year programs — and they are a mix of nonprofit and for-profit — run to $10,000 and up for about three months. String a few of those together and you’re paying the equivalent of a year’s college tuition.

That’s what Steve Warner found out when his son Elliot came home during the summer and said he wanted to take a gap year instead of going to the California college he was scheduled to attend in the fall.

So he made an agreement with Elliot: he and Elliot’s mother would pay for the programs if Elliot picked up the costs of all the backpacking, hiking and diving equipment and some of the extras.

“We’ve spent about half a year’s tuition,” on the programs, Mr. Warner said, including $4,500 on a six-week reef conservation program in Belize, $14,850 on an 11-week National Outdoor Leadership School in Australia and about $5,000 on flights.

But during part of his gap year, Elliot plans to work on organic farms where his room and board are free in exchange for his labor.

Anyone can take a gap year, or month, at any age, but the term most often refers to — and the programs are most often aimed at — teenagers who have decided to take a break between high school and college.

In many cases, they are already accepted at their choice institution and most have no problem postponing their admission for a year.

But I can hear the cries already: Why pay for them to take a year off? Let them work! They’ll learn more from a year scooping ice cream or waiting tables than gallivanting around the globe.

And that certainly is an option, or a necessity, for some students. Students who want to earn money or at least not spend a lot can follow Ben Moss’s path and work in an inner-city school for a year.

Mr. Moss had no interest in a gap year and was happily planning to attend Lehigh University in the fall.

“I wanted to go to college at the same time as all my friends,” Mr. Moss said. “My parents forced me to go to a gap year fair and for the most part it was for-profit companies that say, ‘Pay us to go to a third-world country.’ But there were two guys in red jackets and I went over to them and in 10 minutes they had completely changed my mind.”

He had found City Year, which places people ages 17 to 24 in schools in 25 locations around the country in an intense effort to stem the dropout rate in lower-income areas.

“I went to a large, diverse school and I’ve seen the achievement gap firsthand,” said Mr. Moss, who is now working full time at Isaac Newton Middle School for Math and Science in East Harlem. And the fact that he is paid an annual salary of $12,100 helps.

“I’m not in it for the money, but it gave me the impression they needed us,” he said.

In addition, if he works 1,700 hours or more, he will receive a $5,500 academic scholarship, which many colleges and universities match.

Mr. Moss says he does not intend to go into education but feels the skills he is learning, like teamwork, time management and working through tough situations, will help him in any job.

But getting into City Year, which receives one-third of its funding from AmeriCorps, a federal national service program, may feel a bit like applying to college. Melanie Brennand Mueller, vice president of recruitment and admissions at City Year, said only one in five applicants was accepted and the number of applications had increased over the last year. This year, 2,700 people participated.

Some parents, however, consider a costly program to be an investment in the future.

Sally Cantwell’s son wanted a breather between high school and college, but “our attitude was, this is not a luxury,” Ms. Cantwell said. “We wanted Simon to learn a skill.”

So he earned his ski instructor certification over 10 weeks in New Zealand (which cost about $12,000 for instruction, airfare, room and board), and then spent the winter working at Deer Valley, Utah, where he will return this ski season.

One thing Ms. Cantwell, who is British and well versed in gap years, also didn’t want was a program that was “too structured. We wanted Simon to learn to handle things on his own.”

Most American parents don’t have the same inclination and prefer to know exactly how, when and where everything will happen.

And that can be a shame, Ms. Bull said, because “you might miss out on some very quirky placements. And if it’s nothing but structured, leader-led programs for the whole year, you’re missing something.”

But all parents want to ensure their children are in a reputable program, something that’s not always so easy to figure out.

That’s why an accreditation system has been developed, Mr. Knight said, with the first programs in the final stages of the process.

“It’s 54 pages long with five different certificate levels,” he said of the criteria. For service programs, for example, the company must show how it prepares students, how involved students are in the project and how involved the community is. Another focus is on safety, and how local transportation and activities such as ropes courses and scuba diving are vetted.

While no federal agency develops its own credentials, Mr. Knight said the Department of Justice and Federal Trade Commission had authorized his organization as the sole body to develop standards for accreditation for gap year programs.

There are lots of ways to do a gap year and lots of good reasons to do it. But there is one bad reason, Ms. Bull said: “Hoping it will get you in a better college.”
139 2013-10-05 FRANKFURT — The banking industry, already troubled by official inquiries that have badly damaged its reputation, got hit by another on Friday. Swiss authorities said they were investigating whether financial institutions had colluded to manipulate foreign exchange markets.

In a terse statement, the Swiss financial industry regulator, known as Finma, said it was investigating several Swiss banks but did not name them. The agency also said it was cooperating with authorities in other countries and that banks outside the country were also suspected. A spokesman for Finma declined to comment further.

Spokesmen for Switzerland’s two largest banks, UBS and Credit Suisse, declined to comment. UBS is fourth among global banks in currency trading, according to Euromoney. Credit Suisse is a relatively minor player, with 3.7 percent of the currency market vs. 10.1 percent for U.B.S.

The largest currency trader globally is Deutsche Bank in Frankfurt, with 15.2 percent of the market. A spokesman for Deutsche Bank also declined to comment.

In earlier inquiries, more than a dozen global banks have been accused or suspected of manipulating the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, a benchmark used to set interest rates on trillions of dollars of mortgages and other loans. In December, UBS agreed to pay approximately 1.4 billion Swiss francs ($1.6 billion) as part of a settlement with American, British and Swiss authorities in connection with the Libor inquiry.
140 2013-10-06 ROSENSTOCK--Stanley C. It is with profound sadness that we mourn the passing of our beloved brother, brother-in-law and uncle. Stanley was the patriarch of our family. A man of quiet strength and brilliant mind. Our love and devotion to Phyllis, h...
141 2013-10-06 RIDGWAY--Emily Parsons, of Short Hills, NJ and Fishers Island, NY died peacefully on October 1st, two months before her 103rd birthday. Her husband William C. Ridgway, Jr. predeceased her, as did her sister, Lucille Parsons Balcom, and her brother...
142 2013-10-06 HOTCHKISS--Ann G.,90, passed away September 28 in Wilmington, DE. Wife of the late Horace (2005). Beloved mother of Lucinda Hotchkiss-Diel (Ronald Diel) and Benjamin. Memorial service at Chandler Funeral Home, Wilmington, DE October 19 at 2pm....
143 2013-10-06 Get me rewrite!...
144 2013-10-06 Brielle Amara Megan Kissel, the daughter of Kathleen V. Kissel and Richard J. C. Kissel of Lexington, Mass., was married Saturday to Anne Kinkelaar Meade, the daughter of Susan J. Kinkelaar of Kennebunk, Me., and Dr. William C. Meade III, of Islesboro, Me. Debora J. Marathon, a notary public and Ms. Meade’s mother’s partner, officiated at the Ducktrap Retreat in Lincolnville, Me.

Ms. Kissel (left), 31, is an economist at Eastern Research Group, a consultancy in Lexington, Mass., that specializes in the environment and health industries. She graduated summa cum laude from the University of New Hampshire and received a master’s in economics from Tufts.

Ms. Kissel’s parents work for I.B.M., her father as a senior software developer, in Littleton, Mass., her mother as a copywriter and editor for software products, in Waltham, Mass.

Ms. Meade, also 31, is the senior manager of the Web site and social media applications of Public Responsibility in Medicine and Research, an organization in Boston that promotes ethical standards in biomedical, behavioral and social science research. She graduated cum laude from Mount Holyoke College in South Hadley, Mass., and received a master’s in organizational leadership from Wheelock College in Boston.

Her mother, a registered nurse, works for HomeHealth Visiting Nurses, an agency in Saco, Me. She is a liaison between the agency and Maine Medical Center, in Portland. Ms. Meade’s father, an orthopedic surgeon, is the chief of orthopedic services at the Maine Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Augusta. He retired from the Army as a colonel, serving as the chief of  orthopedic trauma at the William Beaumont Army Medical Center in El Paso, Tex. He returned to service from 1990 to 1991, during the Gulf War, as a staff surgeon at the Keller Army Community Hospital in West Point, N.Y.

Ms. Meade is the stepdaughter of Candace E. Meade.

The couple will use the surname Meade.
145 2013-10-06 Emilie Michelle Keldie and Andrew Skiles Rosenfeld were married Saturday evening at the Bedford Post Inn in Bedford, N.Y. The groom’s father, Morton M. Rosenfeld, who became a Universal Life minister for the event, officiated.

Mrs. Rosenfeld, 30, is the director for research and archives at the Felix Gonzalez-Torres Foundation in New York, which oversees the estate, archives and work of the late Mr. Gonzalez-Torres, a sculptor and photographer. She graduated cum laude from the University of Florida and received a master’s degree in arts administration from Columbia.

She is the daughter of Victoria Cutler Siegel of Miami and the stepdaughter of Richard A. Siegel, and is a daughter of Dr. Carl J. Keldie of Brentwood, Tenn., and the stepdaughter of Barbara H. Keldie.

Mr. Rosenfeld, 31, is a managing director, researching and overseeing investments in public stocks and private investments in the Greenwich, Conn., office of the Meritage Group, a San Francisco investment firm. He graduated magna cum laude and received a master’s degree in economics from Yale.

He is a son of Marguerite S. Rosenfeld, who lives with the groom’s father in Los Angeles.
146 2013-10-06 As Price settled in, Jacoby Ellsbury looped a leadoff single that dropped just in front of Myers. Ellsbury then stole second and took third as catcher Jose Molina threw the ball into center field. Two batters later, Dustin Pedroia drove in Ellsbury with a sacrifice fly. Then Ortiz hammered a cutter Price had left over the plate for a solo home run to center.

Price, the 2012 A.L. Cy Young Award winner, turned and watched the ball go, and then paced around the mound. He regained his composure until David Ross doubled off the Green Monster to lead off the third inning. Ellsbury then poked a fastball down the left-field line for a double that drove in Ross. Two batters later, Ellsbury scored when Pedroia hit into a forceout. The next inning, the Red Sox added a run, giving starter John Lackey a 5-1 cushion.

This has been a curious season for Lackey, his first since having Tommy John elbow surgery. He had compiled a 3.52 earned run average, his lowest since 2007, but it fluctuated based on where he pitched. His E.R.A. was 4.48 on the road and 2.47 at home.

In September, though, home or away, Lackey seemed fatigued. So he was given 10 days off, from his last start to Saturday. But the rest, Lackey said, caused him to struggle with his command. He worked around three singles and two walks and kept the Rays at bay until the fifth, when he gave up a ground-rule double to Yunel Escobar and hit David DeJesus with a pitch. James Loney then drove them in with a long double to center, cutting the Red Sox’ lead to 5-3.

Lackey then walked Evan Longoria and ran the count full against Ben Zobrist, who struck out looking at a fastball. Lackey pumped his fist as the crowd roared. In the bottom half of the inning, Ellsbury reached base for the third time off Price, and Pedroia drove him in.

All around, this game unfolded like so many before. Once Lackey exited after pitching five and a third innings, the Boston bullpen induced ground-ball double plays to end the seventh and the eighth. Myers, the target of chanting all night, went 0 for 5 with a strikeout. Ortiz crushed another home run, this one around the Pesky Pole in right, on a Price fastball. It was a first for Ortiz, who had not hit two homers in a postseason game before.

“His fastball wasn’t like it used to be,” Ortiz said, noting that Price had just pitched a complete game on Monday. He added: “It wasn’t a bad fastball, but not 96, 98 like he used to. It wasn’t like you normally expect.”

Price stood off the mound, looking into center, expressionless, as Maddon came to get him. Given the moment, based on the result, this was perhaps the worst start of his young career. He dropped to 0-4, with a 5.81 E.R.A., in his four career postseason starts.

Price walked off slowly, head down, the crowd still delirious, and then disappeared into the Rays’ dugout, perhaps for the last time, unless the Rays muster something and extend the series.

“We’ve been in this boat in the past and we’ve forced Game 5s in those situations also,” Maddon said afterward. “So Boston this time of year is kind of lovely, and I’m looking forward to coming back in a few days.”
147 2013-10-06 “One thing that the lack of a personal income tax does is it’s great for entrepreneurial business,” Mr. Craymer said. “It’s great for us as an incubator, and for corporate headquarters locations.”

For the people in the C-suites — those with titles like chief executive officer, chief financial officer and chief operating officer — Texas is attractive.

The well-titled are also the entitled, pulling the highest salaries; because Texas doesn’t have a personal income tax, it offers them an opportunity to cut their own personal tax burdens.

Lower-paid employees can benefit, too. They might all be a bit shocked by property taxes here, but on average, they will come out ahead on the personal side.

For companies making their decisions on the basis of personal finances — or, say, on the personal finances of the small group of people making the site selection decisions — the tax thing can be persuasive.

The business outlook can be considerably different. The numbers from Mr. Craymer’s group — which researches and lobbies on tax, economic and state fiscal issues — show a state that’s great for individuals, good for service companies and hard on everyone else.

You won’t catch a group like this one trying to chase businesses away or taking potshots at the governor. Its members are not malcontents or partisans. But they are empiricists, and their numbers present a more nuanced argument than the governor and other promoters are making.

Part of that Texas sales pitch is about climate, work force, favorable regulations and the quality of life. Another is that this is a low-tax state. On a per-capita basis, the Census Bureau ranked Texas 33rd in tax collections in 2010.

But taxes are not collected on a per-capita basis. Individuals pay sales taxes on many of their purchases, and property taxes on their homes and other real estate — but do not pay state personal income taxes like people in 43 of the other 49 states.

In Texas, individuals pay about 35 percent of state and local taxes, according to the taxpayers association’s research. The average for all 50 states is 52 percent. Of course, the numbers flip for businesses, which pay 65 percent of state and local taxes here, compared with 48 percent, on average, nationally.

Individuals paid 55.1 percent of the state sales tax in 2011, according to the state comptroller’s office. Businesses, on the other hand, paid 51.5 percent of the school property tax. Texas has the 11th-highest sales tax rates and, according to the Lincoln Institute of Land Policy, the fourth-highest tax on industrial property.

“There are different kinds of businesses,” Mr. Craymer said. “If you’re capital-intensive, it’s a high-tax state. If you’re in a service business, it’s relatively low tax.”

If you’re on an economic development team barnstorming the country to get businesses to come to Texas, it’s a low-tax state. The rest is just detail.
148 2013-10-06 Minnesota Coach Jerry Kill had a seizure Saturday morning and did not travel with the Golden Gophers, who fell to No. 19 Michigan, 42-13.

Kill did not feel well Friday but had planned to travel early Saturday to meet his team in Ann Arbor, Mich., according to Minnesota officials. But he had a seizure and remained home to rest instead.

Earlier this season, Kill had a seizure at halftime against Western Illinois. That incident was the third time in the last three seasons he could not finish a game. But he had never missed a game in its entirety until Saturday.

Last week, Kill granted The New York Times access to his football program. In interviews, the university president, Dr. Eric Kaler, and athletic director, Norwood Teague, expressed their full support for Kill. Teague said Kill’s seizures were not a distraction.

Kill’s coaching staff is filled with longtime assistants who have been with him at Saginaw Valley State, Emporia State, Southern Illinois, Northern Illinois and now Minnesota. They have a plan in place should Kill have a seizure on the sideline.

Kill had his first seizure in 2000, while at Emporia State. He also beat kidney cancer, which doctors discovered after his first sideline seizure in 2005.

Against the Wolverines, the defensive coordinator Tracy Claeys, Kill’s longest-tenured assistant, took over the head coaching duties from the press box.
149 2013-10-06 The system, which the Pentagon says can be operated within 10 days of being shipped to a new location, would be used to neutralize the large quantities of “precursor” chemicals that could be used by the Syrian government to make sarin and other forms of poison gas and thus replenish its chemical weapons arsenal.

A senior State Department official said that the use of the mobile system would provide an “early demonstration” that steps were being taken to shrink Mr. Assad’s chemical program and would make it easier to meet the mid-2014 target for its elimination.

“It will reduce the possibility that the Syrian regime can change its mind,” added the State Department official, who asked not to be identified because the plan for eliminating Syria’s poison gas program was still being finalized. “It will greatly reduce the size and duration of the international footprint in Syria.”

The basic plan for eliminating Syria’s chemical weapons program was outlined last month in a framework agreement between American and Russian officials and has been refined in consultation with experts at the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, an international watchdog group.

While the plan has been endorsed by the United Nations Security Council, its goal is unprecedented: the elimination of a nation’s chemical weapons, agents and equipment on an accelerated schedule in the middle of a civil war.

The Syrian government’s moves to consolidate its chemical arsenal at sites under its control and the fact that much of its program consists of precursor chemicals in bulk form will facilitate the disarmament effort, officials say.

International inspectors who recently arrived in Syria have generally had good cooperation with the Assad government. Still, the disarmament effort will depend heavily on the cooperation of the Syrian military and on Russia’s willingness to use its leverage with the Syrian authorities.

American officials say that while the Syrian government’s preliminary inventory of its chemical weapons program, presented last month to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, was more extensive than some experts anticipated, it was not complete.

An early test of the Assad government’s willingness to cooperate, American officials say, will come when the government submits a more formal declaration later this month.

“It is of the greatest importance that that document be complete,” the State Department official said.

Some experts believe that Mr. Assad may have calculated that there is little chance that his government could use chemical weapons on a large scale again without exposing itself to a military strike by the United States and that he can rehabilitate his international standing by cooperating with the disarmament effort.

But Amy E. Smithson, an expert on chemical weapons at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies, cautioned that Mr. Assad did not have a “cooperative track record with international nuclear inspectors and may even now be busily hiding some of the man-portable chemical weapons.”

American officials say that Syria’s chemical weapons include sarin, VX, mustard gas and even ricin.

The basic strategy behind the international disarmament plan is to destroy chemical bombs and warheads where they are or at nearby locations in Syria.

This would limit the need to transport them, which could expose them to theft by some of the many groups fighting in Syria. Small warheads can be destroyed in special detonation chambers. Large weapons may need to be drained of their chemical agents before they are destroyed.

Equipment for producing chemical agents and filling munitions with poison gas is to be destroyed by early November.

To speed up the disarmament process, the large stores of precursor chemicals that can be used to make sarin and other chemical warfare agents are to be taken out of the country well before the middle of next year so they can be neutralized by the mobile systems, according to the current plans.

“We have a couple and can make some more,” the State Department official said, referring to the mobile systems.

American officials are expected to operate the systems unless it is decided to base them on Syrian territory.

They have not said where the mobile systems would be located, nor have they provided an estimate of how much the total disarmament effort will cost.

The officials did not say which country might be responsible for incinerating the residue from the neutralization of the precursor chemicals, which is one way of eliminating that waste.

The State Department official said that there were “good grounds” to think the target date for eliminating Syria’s chemical weapons program could be met.

“We take nothing for granted,” he added. “It could go off the rails in many ways, but we are planning for success under both ideal and difficult circumstances.”
150 2013-10-06 My dog Callie was the first. Rescued from a shelter, Callie was a skinny black terrier mix, what is called a feist in the southern Appalachians, from where she came. True to her roots, she preferred hunting squirrels and rabbits in the backyard to curling up in my lap. She had a natural inquisitiveness, which probably landed her in the shelter in the first place, but also made training a breeze.

With the help of my friend Mark Spivak, a dog trainer, we started teaching Callie to go into an M.R.I. simulator that I built in my living room. She learned to walk up steps into a tube, place her head in a custom-fitted chin rest, and hold rock-still for periods of up to 30 seconds. Oh, and she had to learn to wear earmuffs to protect her sensitive hearing from the 95 decibels of noise the scanner makes.

After months of training and some trial-and-error at the real M.R.I. scanner, we were rewarded with the first maps of brain activity. For our first tests, we measured Callie’s brain response to two hand signals in the scanner. In later experiments, not yet published, we determined which parts of her brain distinguished the scents of familiar and unfamiliar dogs and humans.

Soon, the local dog community learned of our quest to determine what dogs are thinking. Within a year, we had assembled a team of a dozen dogs who were all “M.R.I.-certified.”

Although we are just beginning to answer basic questions about the canine brain, we cannot ignore the striking similarity between dogs and humans in both the structure and function of a key brain region: the caudate nucleus.

Rich in dopamine receptors, the caudate sits between the brainstem and the cortex. In humans, the caudate plays a key role in the anticipation of things we enjoy, like food, love and money. But can we flip this association around and infer what a person is thinking just by measuring caudate activity? Because of the overwhelming complexity of how different parts of the brain are connected to one another, it is not usually possible to pin a single cognitive function or emotion to a single brain region.

But the caudate may be an exception. Specific parts of the caudate stand out for their consistent activation to many things that humans enjoy. Caudate activation is so consistent that under the right circumstances, it can predict our preferences for food, music and even beauty.

In dogs, we found that activity in the caudate increased in response to hand signals indicating food. The caudate also activated to the smells of familiar humans. And in preliminary tests, it activated to the return of an owner who had momentarily stepped out of view. Do these findings prove that dogs love us? Not quite. But many of the same things that activate the human caudate, which are associated with positive emotions, also activate the dog caudate. Neuroscientists call this a functional homology, and it may be an indication of canine emotions.

The ability to experience positive emotions, like love and attachment, would mean that dogs have a level of sentience comparable to that of a human child. And this ability suggests a rethinking of how we treat dogs.

DOGS have long been considered property. Though the Animal Welfare Act of 1966 and state laws raised the bar for the treatment of animals, they solidified the view that animals are things — objects that can be disposed of as long as reasonable care is taken to minimize their suffering.

But now, by using the M.R.I. to push away the limitations of behaviorism, we can no longer hide from the evidence. Dogs, and probably many other animals (especially our closest primate relatives), seem to have emotions just like us. And this means we must reconsider their treatment as property.

One alternative is a sort of limited personhood for animals that show neurobiological evidence of positive emotions. Many rescue groups already use the label of “guardian” to describe human caregivers, binding the human to his ward with an implicit responsibility to care for her. Failure to act as a good guardian runs the risk of having the dog placed elsewhere. But there are no laws that cover animals as wards, so the patchwork of rescue groups that operate under a guardianship model have little legal foundation to protect the animals’ interest.

If we went a step further and granted dogs rights of personhood, they would be afforded additional protection against exploitation. Puppy mills, laboratory dogs and dog racing would be banned for violating the basic right of self-determination of a person.

I suspect that society is many years away from considering dogs as persons. However, recent rulings by the Supreme Court have included neuroscientific findings that open the door to such a possibility. In two cases, the court ruled that juvenile offenders could not be sentenced to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole. As part of the rulings, the court cited brain-imaging evidence that the human brain was not mature in adolescence. Although this case has nothing to do with dog sentience, the justices opened the door for neuroscience in the courtroom.

Perhaps someday we may see a case arguing for a dog’s rights based on brain-imaging findings.
151 2013-10-06 Highlights of mutual fund performance in the third quarter
152 2013-10-06  Have an agenda. Know what outcomes you want from the talk — when will your children step in, and who will do what?

 Adopt “a comfortable tone.” You want an easy, open and collaborative discussion.

Clearly, every family situation is different. Unfortunately, the book deals with this reality by sticking with generalities.

It states the importance of ensuring that your children have all your financial data — “the more information your kids have, and the sooner they get it, the better it is for you and them” — and on the need for establishing such things as a power of attorney.

But when it comes to how much money you will need toward the end of your life, the book never goes much further than saying that the question is difficult. “The problem, quite simply, is that the ending (when, where and how) as well as the associated costs are unknowable,” the author writes.

True, but it would have been helpful to explore in depth such topics as whether you should have long-term care insurance, or whether annuities make sense.

Of course, you can hire experts to help you with those decisions. The big take-away here is that if you have adult children, it’s wise to have this “other” talk as soon as you can.

In writing his book, Mr. Prosch talked to many older people who said they were reluctant to have this talk because they weren’t convinced that their children knew enough about personal finance to be of help.

JEFF ROSE, a certified financial planner, is out to remedy that in “Soldier of Finance: Take Charge of Your Money and Invest in Your Future.” (Amacom, $16.) Mr. Rose, who served with the Army National Guard in Iraq, models his book on the “Soldier’s Handbook,” which is issued to Army recruits and is designed, he says, “to give us a firm foundation upon which to build careers of service to the United States.”

And, to his credit, his book provides a solid foundation of personal finance basics. Mr. Rose is particularly good in explaining how to establish and keep good credit; the need for having clear, specific financial goals; how to learn from your mistakes when you go off track; and the best ways to eliminate debt.

For example, the traditional advice is to pay off the debt with the highest interest rate first. And while that makes financial sense, the size of that debt may appear so large that you may not attack it as aggressively as you should, for fear that you’ll never make a dent. If you find yourself thinking that way, Mr. Rose says, you may want to pay off your smallest outstanding balance first, to create debt-reducing momentum, and then move to the second-lowest balance and so on.

The book’s constant attempts to compare learning about personal finance to learning how to be a soldier lose their charm after a while. It says that looking for mistakes in your credit report is analogous to searching for land mines, for example, and that preparing a snapshot of your overall financial health is like an induction physical. And the discussion of investing in stocks is so general and short — just four pages in this 200-page book — as to not be helpful.

Still, anything that helps you understand the basics, and makes it easier to talk to your family about your finances, is welcome.
153 2013-10-06 For one thing, Pinnacle Value has outperformed the S.& P. 500 over the last decade. And Mr. Deysher would sooner lag behind the market than bend the buying discipline of the fund.

“Our job is to seek out fundamentally undervalued stocks, and if we can’t find any, we’ll let the cash build,” he said. “It’s been difficult for deep value investors like us,” he added. “There’s just not a lot of merchandise.”

For Mr. Deysher, capital preservation is paramount. “We’d really like to put the cash to work but not at the risk of potential capital loss,” he explained.

But Bruce Berkowitz, who manages several Fairholme funds, goes much further in outlining the merits of stockpiling cash.

“I believe holding above-average amounts of cash leads to above-average performance,” Mr. Berkowitz said. His Fairholme Allocation fund, which now holds 14.8 percent in cash, has outperformed, soaring almost 34 percent in the first nine months this year.

Having cash on hand can be the difference between getting in on the best buying opportunities, or missing out, Mr. Berkowitz reasons.

These opportunities typically arise when markets have sold off and many managers must sell to meet redemptions from fund shareholders. “Having that cash allows a portfolio manager to buy when most do not have the cash to make investments,” he said. It also allows a fund manager to meet redemptions without having to sell stocks that still have “huge performance potential.”

“Cash can be extremely valuable — especially when no one else has it,” Mr. Berkowitz said. “Cheap purchase prices are usually created when most funds are being forced to sell.”

A case in point: “All the companies I’ve invested in in the past three years were dramatically affected by the real estate bubble,” he said. Recoveries in the shares of the American International Group and Sears Holdings have produced big gains for the Fairholme funds.

But some question the value of trying to time market moves. “Evidence suggests that market timing is incredibly hard,” said Michael Abata, a manager of the Invesco Low Volatility Equity Yield fund. “If you can do it, it’s potentially powerful — but incredibly hard to do.”

Mr. Abata does not try. The Invesco fund now has less than 2 percent of its assets in cash. With investors buying and selling shares of a fund, that is close to being fully invested. The fund managed an advance of nearly 17 percent in the first three quarters of the year.

Though he does not hedge with cash, Mr. Abata is adjusting his strategy to the realities of a market that is becoming “increasingly expensive.” He is shifting portfolio weightings toward stocks that tend to have less volatility. He recently bought shares of AT&T and Verizon. He has reduced his position in First Solar, which tends to be a more volatile stock. What would Mr. Abata do if investors started bailing out of the fund during a sharp market correction? “If we were being redeemed, we’d sell off the less attractive holdings — those that don’t have as high an expected return,” he said.

Some mutual funds require fund managers to stay fully invested. Sometimes, large investors in a specific fund stipulate that the fund avoid holding cash, said Will Browne, a manager of the Tweedy, Browne Global Value fund. “There are certainly institutional accounts that give you money and say, ‘I want you to be fully invested.’ ”

But Mr. Browne, whose fund holds nearly 17 percent cash, said he “pushes hard” against such demands. He said he preferred to buy companies at prices that are lower than what an informed buyer would pay in an acquisition. If he cannot find them, he said, he is prepared to “lag behind” market returns for a while.

One fund manager who is still finding stocks to his taste is Richard S. Nackenson, of the Neuberger Berman Multi-Cap Opportunities fund. Mr. Nackenson has been nearly fully invested, retaining slightly more than 2 percent of assets in cash.

“We’re not required to be fully invested,” he explained. “We are choosing to be fully invested in this market because we’re finding high-conviction ideas. Many of these are companies that are showing growth in current and future cash flow.”

Such cash flow growth is appealing, as it can finance investor-friendly initiatives like dividend increases and share buybacks. Mr. Nackenson said he liked the free-cash-flow growth potential of Boeing, a long-term holding to which his fund has added shares recently.

Bargains seem to be in the beholder’s eyes. Unlike Mr. Nackenson, Kimball Brooker Jr. doesn’t see many now. The FirstEagle Overseas fund, of which he is a co-manager, has a hefty 23.1 percent of assets in cash. “We’re lagging the indices,” Mr. Brooker acknowledged, emphasizing that his first goal is “not to lose money.” “We’re just being very patient,” he said.

He sees most global markets as fully valued, a somewhat uncommon situation. “It’s unusual to have synchronous full valuation around the world,” he said.

Has Mr. Brooker heard complaints from disappointed investors? “Not yet,” he replied. “For the moment, 2008 and 2009 are still in the psyches of many investors,” he said. “There’s some appeal to a strategy that will protect them on the downside.”
154 2013-10-06 And one big tail wind that propelled the popularity of emerging-market equities and other risky assets — the widespread availability of cheap credit globally — has slackened.

Although the Federal Reserve announced last month that it was not yet ready to taper its aggressive bond-buying program, the central bank is still expected to eventually take its foot off the accelerator. And central banks throughout the emerging markets — including Brazil, Indonesia and India — have raised key rates in an effort to keep inflation in check and prop up their currencies.

“What has been driving some of the success in the emerging markets — investment from developed countries to feed exports back into the developing world — is starting to slow down,” said Edward A. Gray, head of global and international value equities at Delaware Investments. “At the margin, things have gotten tougher to justify in the emerging markets.”

Now there is heated debate about whether emerging-market stocks are good values, with bulls pointing out that these stocks are cheaper than average, based on certain measures.

Richard Titherington, head of J.P. Morgan Asset Management’s emerging-markets equity team, notes that over the last 20 years, investors were smart to sell emerging-markets stocks when they traded at an average price-to-book value ratio of more than 2.5 and to buy when that ratio sank below 1.5.

In the summer, emerging-market stocks slipped below that threshold and rallied. Today, emerging-market equities trade at around 1.6 times their book value.

Yet Mark D. Luschini, chief investment strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott, argues that the emerging-market stocks aren’t necessarily cheap based on other measures.

For instance, the price-to-earnings ratio for the MSCI Emerging Markets index ended the third quarter at 11.2, based on projected profits; the figure is slightly higher than the comparable P/E of 11.0 for emerging-markets stocks when they peaked in May 2011. That’s because emerging market earnings have actually contracted over the last two years.

So where does that leave investors? They must be much more selective than they were before.

“Let me be blunt: The universe of attractive opportunities is shrinking,” said Mr. Kaufman at Thornburg. While pockets of strong growth can still be found in emerging markets, “the problem is the good stuff is increasingly carved out — and expensive.”

Corporate earnings among companies in the MSCI Emerging Markets index are expected to grow 12.8 percent a year for the next three to five years, according to estimates from Bloomberg. Some sectors in the index, like health care and consumer staples, are forecast to grow significantly faster. Yet the average P/E was already 23 at quarter’s end for emerging-market health care stocks and more than 24 for consumer-staples companies, both based on expected earnings.

As a result, Mr. Kaufman said, “we’re finding the need to be a little more creative.” For example, a top holding of the Thornburg Developing World fund is Jerónimo Martins, a retailer. Because the company is headquartered in Portugal, the stock isn’t on the radar of many emerging-market funds. Yet the company operates a large food store chain in Poland.

David J. Winters, manager of the Wintergreen Fund, which invests globally, said investors would do well to look past the macroeconomic “doom and gloom” and focus instead on individual emerging-market companies with strong balance sheets and growth.

“Ultimately, we like the consumer there,” Mr. Winters said. “As people get wealthier in the emerging markets, there are certain things they want, need and just have to have.”

Among companies that fall on this list, he said, are Wynn Macau, which operates a large casino and resort that caters to a wealthy Chinese customer base. “Whatever happens with Chinese growth in the short run or even in the long run, there are a lot of folks who want to go to Macau,” he said, adding that the stock also pays a healthy dividend yield of more than 5 percent.

Arjun Jayaraman, co-manager of the Causeway Emerging Markets fund, said one strategy that makes sense is a barbell approach. In other words, he said, “have exposure to higher-growth parts of the emerging markets, but pair that with really beaten-down parts of the market where things are really cheap.”

He notes that while many consumer-staples companies with attractive growth prospects trade at P/E ratios in the 20-to-25 range, there are numerous Chinese bank stocks, like Bank of China and the China Construction Bank Corporation, that trade at just 5 or 6 times earnings. Russian energy giants like Lukoil and Gazprom are even cheaper. “Valuation is still the most important thing,” he said.

Mr. Jayaraman added that the emerging-market investment world “has become very heterogeneous.”

No longer is this one big China play. Investors are weighing the fiscal health of individual markets. For example, with less cheap credit to drive investment dollars, countries with big current account deficits — those that import more goods, services and investments than they export — are more vulnerable. These are places like Indonesia, India, Turkey, South Africa and Brazil.

Even here, though, investors shouldn’t simply flee these markets because of added worries over capital flows, said G. Rusty Johnson, co-manager of the Harding Loevner Emerging Markets Portfolio.

His fund hasn’t sold out of fiscally strong companies in volatile positions in countries like Brazil and India. “Rather than selling the bad boys,” he said, “we’re nibbling.”
155 2013-10-06 This year through September, the MSCI Europe Index returned 16.1 percent, compared with a 19.8 percent total return for the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index.

“We’ve seen U.S. stocks do so well that now investment managers are starting to look around at international equities,” said Karin Anderson, senior fund analyst at Morningstar. “With European funds lagging their U.S. counterparts, it seems like there’s room for gains,” Ms. Anderson said, pointing to a 16.6 percent increase, on average, for traditional European mutual funds through September, compared with 23.8 percent for United States equity funds.

Another element may also be working in Europe’s favor. Last year, global investors flocked to stocks in Japan after its new government introduced monetary and fiscal stimulus measures. But as the market rally in Tokyo cooled over the summer, global investors began looking for more profitable investments.

“People are starting to think that countries like Germany, and Europe more broadly, may be the next Japan and are poised for an export boom,” said Dave Nadig, president of exchange-traded fund analytics at IndexUniverse.

Still, there is reason to be cautious about a European revival, and many specialists urge investors to consider several factors before increasing their exposure to the region.

For starters, many mutual funds dedicated to the developed world already allocate a majority of their portfolio to Europe, Ms. Anderson said. “Investors want to be careful they don’t inadvertently double up on Europe,” she said. In addition, mutual funds and exchange-traded funds dedicated to Europe vary widely. Some cover all of Europe except Britain and Switzerland, others might focus only on a particular country such as Ireland and still others may focus on only large- or small-capitalization stocks.

About $37 billion is invested in a total of 53 E.T.F.’s dedicated to European equities. Two of the biggest are the Vanguard FTSE Europe E.T.F. and iShares MSCI EMU from BlackRock. In addition, there are many mutual funds dedicated to the region. Two of the largest are Vanguard European Stock Index Fund Investor Shares and Fidelity Europe Capital Appreciation. Experts say inflows to mutual funds and exchange-traded funds focused on Europe have increased slightly in recent weeks.

Another consideration is the value of the euro. “When you invest in Europe, you make two bets,” Mr. Nadig said. “One is on the stock market, the other is the currency. It’s important that investors understand the currency bet. We saw a lot of people make a big bet on Japan. They got it right with the stock market up 60 percent. But they left two-thirds of those gains on the table because they didn’t take into account the yen depreciating.” He noted that interest was growing in E.T.F.’s with currency hedging strategies for Europe; one example is the WisdomTree Europe Hedged Equity fund. What’s more, the region’s economic data may be volatile, and the recovery could be uneven. The European economy grew 0.4 percent in the second quarter, but it’s not yet clear whether that was sustained in the third quarter. Economists worry that it will be several years before the region returns to growth of 2 to 3 percent a year.

“The road ahead for Europe is not going to be a smooth one,” Ms. Anderson said. “Individual countries have problems and there are many other moving parts with the E.U. itself.”

THE region’s problems are still enormous. Political and social tensions remain, and the jobless rate for the euro area was at 12 percent in August. The Greek economy is still contracting, though at a slower rate, and there is talk of a third Greek bailout. Spain, Italy and Portugal are under pressure to cut their budget deficits further. And the region’s banking sector, while strengthening, remains fragile.

A strong note of caution about a European revival has come from a powerful economic official, Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank. “I can’t share the enthusiasm,” Mr. Draghi said in August. “These shoots are still very, very green.”

But after five years of lurching from one economic and financial crisis to another, that may be all global investors need to bet on Europe again.
156 2013-10-06 A popular approach to this problem is to work harder to improve financial literacy — for example, by including household finance in the basic high school curriculum. One reason to think this solution will have big payoffs is that people who are more knowledgeable about financial matters, as measured by a test, perform better at tasks like saving for retirement and staying out of debt. This may seem a straightforward argument in support of financial literacy courses. Unfortunately, it isn’t.

The problem is that measured financial literacy is highly correlated with other factors, most notably higher education in general, so it’s hard to sort out causes. (The ability to solve the Sunday crossword puzzle is probably also positively correlated with good financial outcomes.) So to see whether a financial education curriculum is likely to pay dividends, we should review specific efforts to shore up financial skills in those who are deficient, and not just measure what people already know.

A new paper by three business school professors — Daniel Fernandes of Erasmus University in the Netherlands and the Catholic University of Portugal, John G. Lynch Jr. of the University of Colorado and Richard Netemeyer of the University of Virginia — presents a discouraging assessment of attempts to teach people how to deal with money. Their article uses a technique called meta-analysis, looking at results from 168 scientific studies of efforts to teach people to be financially astute, or at least less clueless.

The authors’ conclusions are clear: over all, financial education is laudable, but not particularly helpful. Those who receive it do not perform noticeably better when it comes to saving more, for example, or avoiding ruinous debt. Even more depressing, the results of efforts aimed at low-income people are particularly weak. Those who need the help most seem to benefit the least.

DON’T get me wrong. I am all for trying to teach household finance in schools, starting as early as possible. And when it comes to high school, I think learning about compound interest is at least as important as trigonometry or memorizing the names of all 50 state capitals. If we try enough approaches, and evaluate what works, we may improve such programs’ effectiveness. But we shouldn’t fool ourselves into thinking that adding a household finance class to a high school curriculum will in itself create knowledgeable consumers who can understand today’s wide array of financial products.

In some ways, the finding that financial education doesn’t provide long-term payoffs is hardly surprising. After all, how much do you remember from your high school chemistry class? Unless you use chemistry at work, you probably don’t recall much about ionic bonding. In the meta-analysis, even the most time-intensive programs — those with more than 24 hours of education and training, almost the length of a college course — had no discernible effects just two years later.

It would be premature to conclude that all efforts at improving financial literacy are futile. But it is a fair conclusion that simply doing more of the training commonly used now will not produce significant results. So what else might we try? Although no approach offers a panacea, three types of efforts seem worthy of more attention.

The first is what Professor Lynch, one of the authors of the meta-analysis, calls just-in-time education. Because learning decays quickly, it’s best to provide assistance just before a decision is made. High school seniors should receive help in how to think about a student loan, and how to make sure that the education bought with the loan offers good prospects for repayment. Just-in-time education can be offered at other crucial moments — when taking out a mortgage or figuring out when to retire. But unless such education is compulsory, many of the consumers most in need of help don’t take advantage of it. And we need to be sure not to confuse self-serving marketing with objective advice.

Another approach is to offer simple rules of thumb to help people cope. Because few people can calculate how much they need to save for a comfortable retirement, it might help to offer simple guidelines like “invest as much as possible in your 401(k) plan,” “save 15 percent of your income” or “get a 15-year mortgage if you are over 50.”

One example comes from a field experiment involving microentrepreneurs in the Dominican Republic. Of those who expressed an interest in receiving help, some were offered training in basic accounting principles while others were given simple rules of thumb. The accounting education did not have apparent effects, but simple rules — like keeping personal money and business money in separate drawers — led to better outcomes. This seemingly trivial concept helped small-business owners keep better track of how their businesses were faring.

The third approach, and the one I believe offers the best prospects of immediate help, is to make our financial system more user-friendly. You don’t need to be a computer scientist to use a smartphone. If we made choosing a suitable mortgage as easy as checking the weather in Timbuktu, fewer households would find themselves underwater when real estate markets tumble.

In the case of 401(k)’s, many companies have made their employees significantly better off by providing a well-designed default investment option, like a low-fee target-date fund. Most unsophisticated investors are better off using that option than trying to be their own portfolio managers.

The same principle can be used in other areas, from credit cards to checking accounts. The financial services industry — either on its own or as required by government regulators — needs to find ways to make it easier for people to make sound decisions. And those financial firms that engage in fraudulent practices should be prosecuted and stopped.
157 2013-10-06 The union “has made matters worse by failing to protest M.L.B.’s thuggish tactics in its investigation, including paying individuals to produce documents and to testify on M.L.B.’s behalf, and bullying and intimidating those individuals who refuse to cooperate with their ‘witch hunt’ against the players — indeed principally Mr. Rodriguez,” the letter said.

The four-page letter was addressed to David Prouty, the players association’s general counsel. It aimed to replace the union’s lawyer for a crucial arbitration hearing regarding the suspension.

It was unclear how the union responded, but the letter apparently proved unsuccessful. At the hearing, which began Monday and will continue in mid-October, Prouty served on the arbitration panel as Rodriguez’s representative. The other members of the panel are Robert Manfred, a senior executive in Major League Baseball, and Fredric Horowitz, an independent arbitrator appointed by both sides.

The arrangement with Prouty could add ammunition to Rodriguez’s arguments that he has been persecuted in the Biogenesis doping scandal, which has ensnared 13 other players.

In a statement, the players union said: “The union respects the confidentiality provisions of the Joint Drug Agreement, and believes all parties involved in the process should as well. Therefore, we will refrain from making any public comment at this time. Instead, we will continue to focus our attention on defending the rights of Alex Rodriguez and all union members during this grievance procedure.”

Manfred declined to comment on most of the letter’s contents but did address the claim that baseball had leaked information to the news media about Rodriguez. He said it was “just ridiculous” to assume that baseball officials were responsible for various leaks in light of the numerous parties involved in the case.

Major League Baseball has steadfastly defended its investigative tactics in the Biogenesis case, calling them standard.

Rodriguez, 38, is owed $86 million on his contract with the Yankees, and the suspension, if served in full, would cost him roughly $32 million in lost earnings. Perhaps equally important, Rodriguez’s legacy as one of the greatest players of his generation is also at stake.

For baseball, Rodriguez’s ban is the most prominent example of the league’s efforts to fight doping. An overturned suspension would be an embarrassment for Commissioner Bud Selig.

Rodriguez has long argued that baseball officials have sought to destroy his career and his reputation. Late Thursday, he filed a lawsuit against Major League Baseball saying that among other misdeeds, the league’s investigators paid money to gain the cooperation of Anthony Bosch, the founder of Biogenesis. (Baseball officials said they “vehemently deny the allegations.”) He went a step further on Friday, suing a doctor who treated him for a hip injury last year.

Rodriguez’s charges against baseball may have been familiar, but the dispute with his union was new.

The letter argued that the union “improperly stood idly by” while baseball officials filed “a sham lawsuit” against Biogenesis in March. The lawsuit, still pending in Miami, was a smokescreen to “procure evidence by means not otherwise available to it,” the lawyers wrote.

The lawyers added that their “greatest concern” was Weiner’s interview on XM Radio on Aug 6. in which he said that he had advised Rodriguez to accept a suspension of an undisclosed number of games.

“I don’t want to give a number,” Weiner said in the interview, “but there was a number that I gave A-Rod and advised him to take it, and he was never given that number.”

Rodriguez’s lawyers said the remark denigrated Rodriguez and could “irretrievably corrupt the arbitration process.”

“Such statements are clearly inconsistent with the M.L.B.P.A.’s duty to fairly and ardently represent Mr. Rodriguez,” they wrote.
158 2013-10-06 For many Americans, they prompt images of hippies and surfers, or perhaps memories of wholesome camping holidays. Europeans may associate them more with the police or parcel delivery. As for their name, take your pick: Type 2, T2, Kombi, Transporter, Bulli, Micro Bus, Samba Minibus, Vanagon, Caravelle, Clipper L.

The warm feelings will no doubt be chilled by Volkswagen’s announcement that production of the much-adored rear-engine vans will shut down at the end of 2013, after 63 years.

Long gone from European and North American showrooms, the vans that were admired for their simplicity and durability, if not their reliability or speed, have continued production in Brazil, where they are called Kombis. But new safety standards in Brazil are finally forcing the end of assembly of second-generation — or as VW prefers, T2 — models.

When the assembly line shuts down, the production of rear-engine vans will total about 1.6 million units in Brazil over 56 years, on top of roughly 7.9 million built at plants in Austria, Germany, Mexico and South Africa. A special Last Edition model of 1,200 Brazilian T2s, with retro hubcaps and interior features, will see out the model.

“It’s the exclamation point, the end of an era,” said S. Lucas Valdes, the owner of GoWesty, an online parts retailer for camper vans in Los Osos, Calif.
159 2013-10-06 “Five American Percussion Pieces” (Poon Village) is the first solo record by Mr. Winant, who may be one of the most wide-ranging musicians in North America. He’s a percussionist who’s worked with Sonic Youth, John Cage, Mr. Bungle, John Zorn, Lou Harrison, James Tenney, Wadada Leo Smith, Steve Reich and hundreds of names that would keep making a cumulative point about open-field maverick tendencies in the music of this country, whether it involves notes-on-paper composers, noise generators, rock improvisers, jazz-tradition players or whatever. The main thing to know about the music here, which includes pieces by Harrison, Tenney, Michael Byron and Alvin Curran, is that it is mind-clearingly beautiful. There are snare drums and microtonal bells and vibraphones and cymbals, organized into tight ensemble patterns in Harrison’s “Song of Quetzalcoatl,” set loose to mingle more freely in Mr. Byron’s “Trackings 1,” and building to and falling from a single climax in Tenney’s “Having Never Written a Note for Percussion,” scored for a single instrument — in this case, a gong. If you’re interested in any part of the American-maverick idea, this album is part of your cultural patrimony; it’s esoteric, but exciting, too.

A New York flutist, Ms. Baum has been recording with expanded small bands since the late ’90s; she’s into tone color and timbre and the blending of languages, jazz, and 20th-century classical and Afro-Latin music. But her composing ideas have gotten particularly strong on “In This Life” (Sunnyside), a septet album written after a trip to South Asia, with a front line including trumpets, guitar and bass clarinet, and rhythm sections alternately using tabla and congas, and trap-set drums. She’s capitalizing on the imagination of the musicians in her band, including the pianist John Escreet and the trumpeter Amir El-Saffar, but she’s got an elegantly persuasive composing hand. There are no pedantic mixtures here; she makes what she takes from classical minimalism and Indian qawwali mix together and feel natural.

In a series of self-produced recordings, the trumpeter Leron Thomas has gone from straight-ahead jazz to rock and electronic music with wild, cutting jokes about stereotypes and anxieties. “Whatever” isn’t exactly the midpoint — it’s a jazz record all the way, with the pianist Taylor Eigsti, the guitarist Matthew Stevens, the bassist Harish Raghavan and the drummer Eric Harland. (Those who follow jazz in New York will see those names as guarantors of quality.) But it’s his best jazz record, both his most thoughtful and his sketchiest. Its music keeps breaking down into smaller groups of musicians and stubborn, cycling riffs before blooming out into patient, narrative soloing, of which some of the best is Mr. Thomas’s.

It’s been six years since the last studio album by Melt-Banana, the Japanese band that’s settled into duo-ness — just Agata and Yako, playing with nearly cartoonish precision and intensity. The new “fetch” (A-Zap) moves the tradition into a kind of pop-art grindcore with occasional dance beats, or a very fast prog-punk that isn’t. It could appeal to fans of Jack White, through Agata’s heroic guitar playing, warping and pitch-bending, becoming melody and rhythm; or to fans of Ponytail, with Yako’s high-pitched yammering, intensely delivered and right on the beat. Melt-Banana plays Nov. 1 at Saint Vitus, in Brooklyn; part of its concert appeal used to be the question of how a live drummer could live up to the standards of the music, but the vision is so strange from the start that it might not make a difference.

The San Francisco band Chrome, in the mid- to late-1970s, lay in the spaces between art-rock, punk, electronic pop, avant-garde film soundtracks and aural scrawl. It boiled down to two people — Helios Creed, with strangulated vocals and contrail guitar riffs, and Damon Edge, on anxious drums and tweaked synthesizer sounds. It seemed to be imagining its own possible audience. “Half Machine Lip Moves,” from 1979, was its generally acknowledged peak, though mostly obsessives and collectors acknowledge it; one of the things that makes the record so good is how intriguing the grooves and pockets and riffs are, how close the music theoretically seems to be getting to something more universally appealing — David Bowie’s sound at that moment, for example. Through crowd-sourced funds, Mr. Creed has prepared a whole new disc of “lost” recordings from that time, “Half Machine From the Sun: The Lost Tracks from ’79-’80” (King of Spades). Time does only favors to Chrome: the music the band made sounds more prescient, still strange and scratchy and generative. It could still theoretically start a new movement.
160 2013-10-06 Wolf’s book is a sobering reminder that as it is currently framed, the work-family debate smacks of elitism. The dominant narrative of middle-class women seeking to combine fulfilling jobs with more quality time for family clashes with that of poorer women, who have long worked for pay because they had to. Stereotype-busting innovations like shared parental leave and shared part-time working arrangements between parents are not just cultural propositions. They are luxuries that only relatively well-off couples can afford.

Here is where Wolf makes her most provocative but also her most problematic assertion: “Adult female employment today isn’t a common shared experience in the way that tending home and family used to be,” she writes. Gender equality for professional women comes at a price, Wolf implies. She does not explicitly attribute blame, though she seems to come close: “Without the new servant classes, elite women’s employment would splutter and stall,” she writes. True. But their elite husbands rely on those nannies and housekeepers just as much.

Class has always been a major divider. Surely, it would have been difficult to speak of shared experiences between the working-class women of the Industrial Revolution and the “daughters of educated men,” as Virginia Woolf described them. Yet for all the important differences, women in the early 21st century still share distinct hurdles based on their sex, independent of class — from everyday sexism and sexual violence to the mother of all challenges, motherhood itself.

If there is one thing the would-be Sandbergs of this world and their nannies have in common, it is that maternal stereotypes still govern how women are expected to behave. It explains why female leaders who display traditionally “male” characteristics are penalized — “aggressiveness” and “brusqueness” clashing with the compassion and softness associated with women, with mothers. It explains why the caring professions are so overwhelmingly dominated by women (and why they are so badly paid). And it may explain why, even though Wolf’s book successfully reminds readers of the many revolutionary changes to women’s lives over the past century, it is also surprisingly quick to regard certain remaining gender differences as “normal.”

We are told that women earn less for “big (and immovable) reasons.” “Women get pregnant. Women give birth. And women breast-feed,” Wolf writes. “They are the ones who take the main child-care role. . . . Women generally prioritize family.” She can sound uncomfortably nostalgic for what she calls a “golden age” of “female altruism,” when “the most brilliant and energetic women in society” worked in the charitable or caring professions — never mind that they often did so for low or no pay. Yes, one may regret that many highly educated individuals, men and women, are today more motivated by money than by compassion. Changing this would require a society that recognizes, with greater remuneration and greater respect, the nurturing work that is so often cast as “female.” We have a long way to go.

If these passages feel old-fashioned, Wolf redeems herself by taking us on a journey across time and oceans and even DNA that is well worth traveling.

At times, “The XX Factor” reads like a “Guns, Germs, and Steel” of women’s roles, so vast is its scope. We learn about family structures in primate societies (baboons have harems, while Titi monkeys are monogamous and chimp mothers apparently rely on a circle of female relatives rather than males for foraging) and the sexual behavior of 21st-century (human) teenagers. Wolf compares the speed of emancipation in emerging economies — the breathtaking emergence of China’s female billionaires, the ambition of South Asian high school graduates — with the status of women in Western societies at equivalent levels of development. (The Westerners lose.)

A recurring theme is the power of economic incentives, but also the power of values that have begun permeating even some of the least outwardly egalitarian societies, like Iran and Saudi Arabia, where women are now prominent in higher education.

Wolf quarrels with more than a few well-worn clichés. When you take into account average total work hours for men and women inside and outside the home, the famous “second shift” of working mothers (a concept we’ve clung to since 1989) is shown to be a myth, she says, citing time-use studies from many countries. And the nuclear family — that ancient corset of gender roles that for centuries defined and reinforced the division of labor between the sexes and was supposed to disappear with more equality — is, among some demographics, having a quiet postfeminist renaissance. “Among the elites, the family hasn’t disintegrated as a result of women’s new workplace opportunities,” Wolf writes. “It has morphed into something as formidable as ever.”

In short, with “The XX Factor” Wolf accomplishes a rare feat: She combines real breadth with real depth. No matter how much you think you know about this hotly debated subject, and whether or not you agree with every one of Wolf’s ideas, you will come away from her book with new information — some merely amusing, but some foundation-shaking.
161 2013-10-06 I am a forester who has managed large tracts of private timberland in California and used prescribed fires, clear-cutting and thinning to maintain healthy forests for 30 years. These strategies mimic natural cycles. Harvesting the timber pays for the fuel management, and society gets to use the wood for housing, fiber and carbon-neutral energy production. Timber cutting is sustainable, but increasingly illegal. Environmental activists have successfully misled urban voters, influencing legislation that bans the very practices that can prevent or lessen wildfires. An extreme solution would be to stop fighting forest fires altogether. If a fire is mild enough to extinguish, it is probably doing more good than harm. If the fire is too dangerous, why spend millions of dollars to pay firefighters, who wait for the weather to change so they can declare victory? HENRY ALDEN, Petaluma, Calif., posted on nytimes.com

A major issue not mentioned in this article is the societal aversion to smoke. The managers of prescribed fires are often subject to intense pressure to “stop that fire right now!” because smoke is bad for people’s health. Managers of these “optional” fires are liable not only for any physical damage from their fire but also for any difficulty the smoke causes. But smoke from a fire that was not started or condoned by managers — a wildfire — is usually seen as just an unfortunate aspect of living in an area where these things happen. The officials in charge of suppressing that fire are more likely to be seen positively, often as heroes, even when the fire was made inappropriately severe by the failure to reduce potential fuels and modify man-made structures before the fire arrived. D.C., Sonora, Calif., posted on nytimes.com

Juxtapose “humility is endangered if not extinct” + “people have no idea how fire spreads” @girlgeekanalyst, quoting a column by Frank Bruni and the cover article about wildfires

EAT, PRAY, LOVE, GET RICH, WRITE A NOVEL NO ONE EXPECTS

What is too often ignored about Elizabeth Gilbert’s “Eat, Pray, Love” is the fact that it was — despite its trite ending, wherein Gilbert falls in love with a man — a well-written book. I read it before it was Oprahed, and I remember thinking, enviously, “This woman is a marketing genius.” Gilbert offered herself as girlfriend to the masses, poured out her heart, laughed at herself, gave readers the opportunity to run away from their lives and then sat back and said, essentially, “We all make mistakes, but ain’t life grand?” Anyone who doesn’t understand why the book sold so well does not understand women. PATRICIA MAHER, Santa Cruz, Calif., posted on nytimes.com

Elizabeth Gilbert’s “Eat, Pray, Love” was entertaining as a travelogue, but there was an awful lot of navel-gazing. And yet this article makes me want to read Gilbert’s new novel, to see if it will have its own voice and not that self-help magazine style. Ours is a country of second and third chances — even for literary fiction. MARY OWENS, Boston, posted on nytimes.com

“Eat, Pray, Love” was self-absorbed? So is every other autobiographical story I’ve ever read and admired. Becoming infatuated with your own life, and how to get through it and learn from it, is one of the most productive things you can do. Writing is self-absorption. Don’t knock it until you look at it all in context. JOHN RYAN MARTINE JR., Queens, posted on nytimes.co,
162 2013-10-06 A critical assessment of Brooklyn’s authors; why you’re gaining weight on Sundays....
163 2013-10-06 For my mother, the kitchen felt like a trap. When the women’s movement blossomed in the late 1960s, she was ready. She vanquished the spirit of homemaking the way had killed her “Angel in the House.”

And then a tidal wave of rage, disappointment and raw desire overtook her. I saw it in her vehemence toward my father and in the raucous consciousness-raising groups that met in our living room. I saw it in the changed contents of our dinner plates: a dried-out chicken leg, a potato collapsed inward from overbaking.

When my mother banged out work correspondence on an electric typewriter way past bedtime, my needs had no standing. On other nights I would lie awake for hours, unable to sleep until she came home at midnight.

Complaining got me nowhere. My mother was an unstoppable force, powerful, beautiful and finally happy. As her days and nights expanded to include solo shows, romance and the founding of feminist organizations, I could see in her radiant face and laughter that she was fulfilling her potential. Her red hair grew ever upward, a hood of curls that shouted out her freedom.

She had suffered and struggled. She was talented. She deserved to thrive.

But my body spoke my devastation. I went from being well fed and popular in third grade to near skeletal and often mocked in fifth. I wasn’t ; I just didn’t know how to cook. I turned sallow and hollow-eyed and suffered headaches, and stomach pains. On the windy playground, other children would crow, “She’s so skinny, she’s going to blow away.”

And I was lonely. On weekday afternoons I would let myself in using the key around my neck. If my mother was home, I would find her in her basement studio, wielding a torch of blue flame, shaping metal into sculpture. She wore a leather apron, elbow-high gloves, a polka-dot cap, a breathing mask and a plastic face visor. Her bushy red hair burst out the back of the cap, a sign of her uncontainable passion.

“Mom!” I would yell, keeping my distance, because even the sparks could burn you. She would look up, turn the knob to stop the gas, pull down the breathing mask and tilt back her visor, showing her freckled face.

“Oh, hello, sweetheart,” she would say in her accent.

If I had a plan, I told her: “I’m going to Phyllis’s house. I have homework.” But when I had social troubles at school, I wanted her company. “I’m bored,” I said. “I have nothing to do.”

“Boredom is an opportunity,” she would say. “You’ll find something.” Then she would concentrate on melting metal for another several hours. Later I would learn she was right about boredom. I got great training in being creative and alone.

But back then, on many afternoons, I would return to my bedroom, sit on my pink shag rug and cry. It seemed I mattered to no one anymore. My heart shrank into a knob of hurt and yearning.

Twenty-three years later, I accepted a medal of honor for my mother from the Veteran Feminists of America. She was in , where she had been leading mask-making workshops with war-scarred women and children. Could I really share with this audience of feminist dignitaries the ambivalence I felt about my mother’s activism?

I stepped to the lectern, surrounded by the burnished wooden walls of a Manhattan club, and said: “It wasn’t always easy having a mother dedicated to feminism. I came home from third grade to find that my baby doll who wet her pants, along with Barbie, her lovely accessories and most of my stuffed animals, had been donated to a day-care center. The day after I got an , Mom was marching through streets with a procession of women wearing her metal masks, proclaiming the second coming of the great goddess.

“But the pride she has brought me, and the self-respect and assertiveness she has worked so hard to teach me, have proved far more nutritive than hundreds of perfectly cooked meals.”

No doubt those hundreds of home-cooked meals I missed would have been wonderful, but not if they had come at the cost of having a miserable mother. Whatever else she is or isn’t, my mother is an inspiration. She has had the courage, vision and persistence to create a meaningful and satisfying life.

I received a standing ovation. Activists lined up to thank me, with one confiding that her daughter remains furious at her for marching on instead of baking brownies.

“How can I help her understand?” she asked. “The want ads in newspapers were segregated by sex. If you got pregnant, you had to stop working. People treated mothers like we were imbeciles. But she won’t listen.”

I listened. I am a feminist, too, and I know there were and are innumerable good reasons for outrage and action. Yet children do not stop needing what they need, even when their parents are fighting for justice. And if you do not attend to them or find a loving substitute, they will suffer and may hold it against you. Even if you have never felt stronger and more truly yourself. Even if you love them.

Because of my history, I know how much the mundane care of children matters. That is why I stop work when the school day ends and greet my daughter with a hug. I may be tired, stressed out or grumpy; I may bemoan the confinement, the repetition, the career limits. But I do it anyway. I pull away from paid pursuits and open myself to the opportunity to delight in my daughter.

My delight comes freely, inspired by a leggy girl with rich brown eyes who has just come home. But our time together is about more than delight. When I hand her a snack and look into her face, seeking the stories of her day, I intend for her to feel how much she matters. She matters more to me right then than anything I could be doing without her. And we will not have these afternoons forever.

When she told me on Mother’s Day that she loves what I do in the kitchen, I realized why I love it, too. For as I stir and chop and bake while she studies, sings, draws, chatters, rides a scooter and does an exceptional job of being young, I am drinking in some of the pleasures I missed.

My husband also cooks. He is generous and competent in the kitchen. But for me, the kitchen is a place of healing. And when my daughter and I play our roles there contentedly, it is as if we have stepped into a feedback loop that sends good feelings cycling between us. We are bathing in a mutually enhancing sort of love, a larger version of the circle that or cuddling a baby can create: a give-and-take that affirms our value as parent and child.

My mother taught me this love when I was little. I rediscovered it when I became a mother. It’s sustaining. It’s precious. And it keeps me coming back — to the kitchen.
164 2013-10-06 Martha A. Sandweiss reviews Carla Kaplan’s “Miss Anne in Harlem” (Sept. 22), a book whose title refers to the dismissive epithet for white women who actively promoted the Harlem Renaissance. Although Kaplan discusses 6 of 60 such women, her focus is on the heiress Nancy Cunard, whom she presents as a prototype of the other “messy” heroines, inconsistent and ineffectual. But the beautiful, multitalented Cunard was a fearless and heroic opponent of racial bigotry until the day she died.

Most disturbing is the reviewer’s and author’s denigration of Cunard’s integrity and achievements and their indictment of her inability “to effect broad social change.” Let it be known that this “heiress” relinquished her inheritance after falling in love with a black man. Cunard earned her living as a publisher and reporter. She contributed to various print media, including the Associated Negro Press, for over 20 years. In 1934 she published her 855-page anthology “Negro,” the first transnational study of African historical and cultural achievements and a call to condemn racism and to appreciate the accomplishments of a long-suffering people. Its 150 distinguished contributors included Dreiser, Beckett, George Antheil, Arna Bontemps, W. C. Handy, Countee Cullen, Zora Neale Hurston, W. E. B. Du Bois, Langston Hughes, Alain Locke and Arthur Schomburg.

Cunard’s subsequent causes included the defense of the falsely accused Scottsboro Boys and opposition to the Italian war in Ethiopia. She traveled to Addis Ababa, where she took on reporting at Haile Selassie’s request. During the Spanish Civil War she fought on various fronts. After the Republicans’ great losses, she remained in Spain as the sole reporter for The Manchester Guardian, often writing about Franco’s obscene use of black African soldiers as cannon fodder. Not to recognize Cunard’s brave and profound commitment to equality and justice is to dishonor the memory of one of history’s most remarkable women.

LOIS GORDON

New York

The writer is the author of “Nancy Cunard: Heiress, Muse, Political Idealist.”
165 2013-10-07 Microsoft has long been in thrall to the Windows operating system. Now, it must put new technology first, and worry later about where old stuff fits in, says the head of its cloud business....
166 2013-10-07 The glass box is the period at the end of architectural history, the final erasure of every pinnacle, crocket, pediment and entablature that ornamented the last few thousand years’ worth of history. They knew better in the Gilded Age of the late 19th century. The Fricks, the Morgans and the Astors might have had a Greek Revival or Federal brownstone in Manhattan; a Renaissance Newport cottage; perhaps a French chateau and an English country house, too, each respecting its own period. But now, like people who want the same clothes from interchangeable H&M outlets across the globe, the well-heeled crave the identical, comfortingly empty look wherever they go. The same white box awaits them in Greenwich Village, Mayfair and Tuscany — and not just at home, but also in their favorite hotels. This endgame suggests that nothing at all is better than something.

I’m not looking for a return to Classicism, Gothicism or any other historic style. (And you can renovate the soul out of a house, too, with a slavish devotion to the past that kills off any warm, lived-in feel.) I’m all for modern buildings to suit the modern age. But there’s something unsettling about the way this empty glass box pops up everywhere and anywhere, even in the most unlikely places. Out in bucolic Oxfordshire, in England, the actor Rowan Atkinson is set to replace a classical 1930s house with what looks like a small airport terminal, designed by — of course — Richard Meier.

In Kensington, in west London, the new buyers of Thurloe Lodge, a lovely Victorian house, are about to demolish it and rebuild a bigger home. The house has met this fate after the 2007 death of its owner, Mark Birley, the founder of Annabel’s: London’s most famous nightclub, renowned for its cluttered, old-fashioned décor, opened in 1963, when the rich admired things like pictures, statues and antique fireplaces. Surely the lodge’s 6,000 square feet was quite enough room already, with five bedrooms, a separate cottage, garden and two garages?

Where houses aren’t torn down, their interiors are ripped out, to turn elegant collections of rooms into enormous voids. Roman Abramovich, the Russian oligarch who owns Chelsea Football Club, is well acquainted with the hollowing-out process. First, he bought all nine apartments inside two stucco-fronted mid-19th-century houses in Lowndes Square, around the corner from Harrods, and got planning permission to knock them together, demolish interior walls and install a swimming pool. But the project ran into delays, and last year he decided to put it on the market with the renovations unfinished.

In Cheyne Walk, Chelsea — that famous 18th-century riverside terrace in London, home at various times to James McNeill Whistler, Mick Jagger and Keith Richards — Abramovich got planning permission to connect not two but three houses, together said to be worth $150 million, in a $15 million disemboweling scheme. Suddenly, this past summer, he decided to sell off these properties too. That’s the other problem with the international elite: they often don’t live in the places they buy and renovate purely as investments. The houses never get the personal touch that makes for idiosyncratic beauty; nor do they accumulate the layers of beautiful objects that come with long-term affection for a home.

If you butcher the innards of houses like this, you completely lose the buildings’ overarching aesthetic. Houses from the 18th and 19th centuries weren’t built as pick ‘n’ mix architecture, with interiors floating free of exteriors. The inside and the outside were designed to complement each other. British terraced houses are versions of Palladio’s palazzos in Vicenza, with exterior window heights matched to internal room dimensions. In earlier terraced houses, the second floor emulated the Italian piano nobile: “the grand floor,” with the tallest windows and ceilings, because that’s where the entertaining, and showing off, was done. The dadoes, paneling and cornices of the interior walls were carefully designed in proportion with the windows. Remove those walls and floors, as the new nihilists are doing, and you destroy the delicate harmony between exterior and interior — and sometimes much more.

One of the finest houses in Paris — the Hôtel Lambert, the 17th-century palace built by Louis Le Vau on the Île Saint-Louis — was having its heart ripped out by its new owner, Prince Abdullah bin Khalifa al-Thani, half-brother of the Emir of Qatar. To customize the building for luxury living, new bathrooms and an elevator were to have been inserted, an underground garage added and the garden wall raised. But the plans were altered after loud protests. Last July, in the midst of the renovations, the house was severely disfigured when a fire in the middle of the night collapsed part of the roof, destroying a set of important frescoes.

Houses can’t be set in stone, of course. Interiors inevitably change as national habits change. Dining rooms and servants’ quarters, a necessity in Georgian and Victorian houses, aren’t needed anymore — except, funnily enough, in the houses of the super-rich, who are wrecking the rooms that could serve them best. But even during a natural evolution toward modernity, there’s no reason why the original room configurations should be obliterated altogether.

No reason except for an overpowering lust for space, as seen in the vogue for “iceberg” developments, in which houses spawn underground additions. Across London, exteriors are shrouded in fencing, to mask the subterranean extension of the white boxes deep into the city’s clay. As the architect moles burrow deeper into the ground, they must frantically build waterproofed walls to keep the water table at bay. An ancient city that has accommodated a growing population since the Romans founded Londinium 2,000 years ago can’t provide enough room for these new insatiable demands.

Jon Hunt, founder of the Foxtons real estate company, has what amounts to his own Ferrari museum in his expanded basement in Kensington Palace Gardens, next to the new home of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge in Kensington Palace. Hans Kristian Rausing, the recovering drug addict heir to the $7 billion Tetra Pak packaging empire, convicted last year of preventing the lawful burial of his wife (he hid her body in the house for two months after her drug-related death), is planning to build himself a titanic iceberg beneath his palace in Belgravia, the heart of upmarket London. He is adding two underground floors, with 1,594 square feet of new space, to include a swimming pool, cigar lounge, wine cellar, elevator, cinema and a plant room with a rainwater harvesting tank. Rausing’s mansion already combined two five-story 19th-century town houses and three connected mews buildings. You’d have thought that would be enough room, what with staff quarters, courtyard, ballroom and garages for seven cars. But, no — like Hamlet, the rich yearn for infinite space.

In the end, even infinite space isn’t enough. It must be the kind of new space that eats away at the old, and compromises what ancient fragments it leaves behind. Often the only old thing that survives these restless, ruthless renovations is the Potemkin facade of the period building, preserved by planning regulations, as everything else is torn down around it. Recently, in gilt-edged Notting Hill, one such fragile shell finally did not have enough left to hold it up. It collapsed in a cloud of dust.
167 2013-10-07 Robert Peck, the first research analyst to set a public target on the not-yet-public stock, said in an interview that he is betting Twitter will have a lot of room to grow....
168 2013-10-07 A new hostel and luxury hotel in one, from the same hotelier who brought New York the Standard East Village and New Orleans the Hotel Modern, offers chic accommodations for a modest price....
169 2013-10-07 United States military academies got some relief from their government shutdown struggles over the weekend as the Pentagon reinstated most of its furloughed civilian employees, allowing professors and other staff members to return to work Monday....
170 2013-10-07 A New York regulator used an admission of wrongdoing to the S.E.C. by the billionaire Philip A. Falcone to punish him in an unrelated case....
171 2013-10-07 Advanced disclosure of research may be prohibited by brokerage firms, but it is not insider trading when an analyst is merely catering to a valuable client, the author writes....
172 2013-10-07 Chaotic storage. The impact of the shutdown. Diddy donates to a program for young entrepreneurs....
173 2013-10-07 The move would essentially wall off troubled assets that crippled the bank and led to a government bailout five years ago....
174 2013-10-07 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
175 2013-10-07 RIO DE JANEIRO — Argentina’s political system was hit by uncertainty on Sunday after the disclosure that President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner had sustained a head injury more than seven weeks ago and was told by neurologists over the weekend to rest for a month while receiving treatment for chronic bleeding near her brain.

Mrs. Kirchner, 60, remained in the presidential residence in Buenos Aires on Sunday after her spokesman, Alfredo Scoccimarro, revealed on Saturday night that she suffered a “skull trauma” on Aug. 12. He said doctors had found an accumulation of blood between her brain and her skull after she complained of head pain during an exam Saturday for an abnormal heart rhythm.

The revelation of Mrs. Kirchner’s head injury, the latest in a series of health issues since her election as president in 2007, prompted declarations of support from various political figures in Argentina, as well as criticism from detractors over how the government has handled information about her health.

“Secrecy breeds suspicion,” said Joaquín Morales Solá, a prominent political commentator, in a column in the newspaper La Nación questioning why some details of her medical condition were being revealed now, nearly two months after an apparently serious injury, and what remains to be discovered about the president’s health.

Mr. Morales Solá also raised doubts about Argentina’s vice president, Amado Boudou, calling his appointment by the president “an error that now takes on a new dimension.” Mr. Boudou, 50, is dealing with a judicial investigation on charges of illegal enrichment and money laundering and could be asked by Mrs. Kirchner to assume presidential duties as she convalesces.

Still, it was not yet clear on Sunday whether Mrs. Kirchner planned to formally transfer duties to Mr. Boudou, as she did for several weeks in 2012 when she was given an incorrect diagnosis of thyroid cancer. Mr. Scoccimarro, her spokesman, did not specify whether or how she planned to follow her doctors’ advice.
176 2013-10-07 And despite the charges of outside meddling, the scene here on Friday was quintessential Venezuela — unruly and loud, with lots of shouting and little or no listening. Yet it might never have occurred under Mr. Maduro’s predecessor and mentor, the charismatic socialist Hugo Chávez, who led the country for 14 years until his death in March.

“Sidor is a little Venezuela, with its elites and its divisions, with its pro-government people and its opposition people, and where changes are taking place,” said Leonel Grisett, a member of the union’s executive committee. “The workers realize that the great leader is not here anymore.”

Since Mr. Chávez’s death government leaders have repeatedly called for unity, urging their followers to stick together at all costs against a common foe. But there are growing signs that the message is not getting across as severe economic problems, including soaring inflation and shortages of basic goods, make many loyal Chávistas waver. Mr. Chávez, a former soldier and a father figure beloved by many, maintained discipline and commanded respect, something Mr. Maduro has struggled to achieve as he seeks to continue his predecessor’s self-declared revolution.

The strike creates an especially knotty problem for Mr. Maduro, who calls himself the worker president and frequently points to his past as a union leader in the Caracas transit system.

Ciudad Guayana, 325 miles southeast of Caracas, the capital, was created in the 1960s as a planned city and a home to Venezuela’s heavy industry. Today it still has the broad avenues and modern apartment blocks dreamed up by planners from Harvard and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, but it also has extensive slums. And while its vast, government-run mills and smelters continue to employ tens of thousands, they suffer from declining production, corruption and meager investment.

Sidor grew along with the city. Founded by the government in the 1960s, the company was privatized in the 1990s before being nationalized by Mr. Chávez in 2008. But production has plummeted by about 60 percent since the government takeover, and analysts blame mismanagement, corruption and a lack of investment and maintenance.

The strike at Sidor began in mid-September with protests by rank-and-file workers who walked off the job, angered by a long delay in negotiating a new contract to replace the one that expired three years ago and by the allegations that for years the company had underpaid annual bonuses.

That grass-roots beginning and the lengthy strike itself are noteworthy in a country where most unions have a cozy relationship with the government and its Socialist political party, especially at government-run companies like Sidor.

After the work stoppage spread, most union leaders took up the cause.

But a faction opposed the strike and closed ranks behind Mr. Maduro and Sidor’s bosses, setting up a political struggle within the union and an unusually public divide among pro-Chávez forces.

That set the stage for Friday’s battle of the loudspeakers. Around 6 a.m., following the routine of recent days, union leaders of the pro-strike forces gave speeches broadcast over loudspeakers while hundreds of workers milled about.

But on this day the dissident faction set up its own speakers some 30 feet away. With the volume cranked to earsplitting levels they preached against the strike.

One worker, Hugo Navarro, 29, stood in between, as if dazed.

“You can’t understand any of it,” he said.

At one point the antistrike contingent played a recording of Mr. Chávez singing the national anthem, as its adherents belted out the tune.

As soon as the recording ended the pro-strike unionists, who far outnumbered their opponents, broke into their own full-throated rendition.

Just as it seemed things might calm down, a truck drove up carrying Carlos Osorio, a retired general and a former confidant of Mr. Chávez who is the top government minister in the region and the president of the Venezuelan Corporation of Guayana, a kind of government holding company that controls Sidor and other state-run companies.

The truck contained an array of black speakers much bigger than those already deployed by the rival factions. Mr. Osorio climbed onto the roof of the vehicle and tried to address the crowd.

But, in another tellingly Venezuelan moment, there was a technical glitch and the speakers produced only a muffled sound.

“Can you hear me?” Mr. Osorio said over and over as the strikers taunted him.

Mr. Osorio eventually made his way to the small stage used by the strikers, where he took a microphone.

“All of us who are here are here thanks to Chávez,” he said.

He urged the strikers to go back to work. The company was prepared to pay some additional benefits, he said, but he refused to meet the strikers’ main demand for a recalculation of bonuses, insisting that they had been paid properly in the past.

The strikers responded with hoots and chants. “We’re Chávistas but we want our money!” they shouted.

The union leaders took back the microphone and berated Mr. Osorio. They pledged their allegiance to Mr. Chávez’s memory and his revolution, but they vowed that the strike would go on.

In the end the episode may have served as a kind of machismo-fueled courtship ritual. Before Mr. Osorio left, the two sides agreed to restart talks, which continued through the weekend.

On Friday night Mr. Maduro, speaking on live television from Caracas, again took up the theme of the expelled diplomats.

“They went with their suitcase full of dollars to buy off union leaders at Sidor, to keep Sidor shut down,” he claimed.

Calling the strike illegal, he warned that if it continued much longer he would take “drastic measures.”

His words highlighted the distance between the presidential palace and the plant gate. “That guy doesn’t know the reality here,” said Eduardo Brito, 28, a forklift operator.
177 2013-10-07 Here’s the chronology. Back in August, Mr. Icahn announced in two separate posts that he was buying Apple stock and that he planned to push for large payouts to investors.

As Fortune magazine pointed out, within an hour of his posts on Twitter, Apple’s market capitalization increased by $17 billion.

Then last Monday night, Mr. Icahn had dinner with Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple, and on Tuesday morning he posted the following:

“Had a cordial dinner with Tim last night. We pushed hard for a 150 billion buyback. We decided to continue dialogue in about three weeks.”

Then he picked up the megaphone at CNBC on Tuesday, suggesting again that Apple needed to borrow $150 billion to finance a buyback. It is an outrageous request, a historic amount of debt for a company that has a historic amount of cash on hand. Apple, of all companies, doesn’t need the money.

“I feel very strongly about this,” Mr. Icahn said on CNBC’s “Fast Money.” “I can’t promise you the stock will go up and I can’t promise you they will do the buyback. But I can promise you that I’m not going away until they hear a lot more from me concerning this."

By the close of trading on Tuesday night, Apple’s market capitalization had increased by $1 billion, to $443 billion, with a big bump after Mr. Icahn’s Twitter post and his comments on CNBC.

That’s $18 billion for three posts, or an average of $6 billion a post, give or take a few bucks for the impact of the CNBC appearance.

Maybe Mr. Cook should have dinner with Mr. Icahn more often.

Even though Mr. Icahn is not even among Apple’s 20 largest shareholders — with what has been estimated at $2 billion in holdings, he owns about 0.5 percent of the company — people listen to him.

That’s because while Mr. Icahn may be an old dog, he has some new tricks, including using strategic posts to stir the pot. Twitter has been a godsend for Mr. Icahn — he has 90,000 followers — in part because it has no filter, and neither does he. And for CNBC, handing Mr. Icahn the microphone is a no-brainer even though his notions about Apple are far-fetched. In general, CNBC has to put on all manner of anodyne executives who are in the business of saying nothing about everything.

People and news organizations pay attention to Mr. Icahn because companies that ignore him — see Motorola and Yahoo — do so at their peril. Never mind that Mr. Icahn would probably not know an iPhone from a Galaxy S4. In a market-driven world, the stock price is everything. And the only thing. He doesn’t own shares in a company called Apple. He owns a stock listing called AAPL.

He is akin to everyone’s crazy uncle whom no one should listen to, except everyone does, and he often turns out to be right. He wins in part because he knows the outside play — the media game — so well. Using business news outlets and now social media, Mr. Icahn is able to make corporate boards quake and chief executives tremble because they know he will say anything, and he often does.

Mr. Icahn usually zeros in on troubled companies, but in this case he is cynically suggesting that one of the most successful companies in the world — one that has already announced plans for $100 billion in dividends and buybacks — should borrow $150 billion and go into real, actual debt despite having $147 billion in cash on hand. (Most of Apple’s cash is overseas and cannot be used to buy off investors.)

Apple probably won’t take the Twitter bait. The company has replaced Coke as the most recognizable brand in the world, with a steady string of product hits. Does it really need Mr. Icahn’s advice?

Many serious people believe the company has too much cash on hand, but Apple is a deliberate, careful company and will not suddenly adjust its managing strategy to accommodate someone’s need for lucrative short-term returns.

Mr. Cook is an unfailingly polite person who probably saw no harm in telling Mr. Icahn as much face-to-face. But the perception of having a dinner conversation that is promptly posted on social media is not great. After all, if Mr. Icahn has Mr. Cook’s ear, shouldn’t other people pay attention to him?

“Every day somebody, somewhere, is saying that something would not happen at Apple if Steve Jobs were alive, and 99 percent of the time it is not true,” said John Gruber, whose blog, Daring Fireball, is closely followed on all things Apple. “But in this instance, that thinking would be right. Steve Jobs does not have dinner with Carl Icahn.”

Then again, if Mr. Icahn were to dine on some crow in regard to Apple — or more likely, settle for some small portion of what he wanted — he would probably be just as public about that. On Friday, he used his Twitter account to surrender in his fight with Dell, saying he had “better uses for $2 billion.” But by having his hands on both the levers of social and legacy media, Mr. Icahn has been able to create, as Mr. Jobs was known to do, a kind of reality distortion field.

Given that Mr. Icahn has, over the course of three posts, goosed almost $18 billion in market value for Apple, no wonder people are drooling over the Twitter I.P.O. Turns out that in the right hands, Twitter can be a magical wealth-creation machine powered mostly by hot air.
178 2013-10-07 At a time when the U.A.W. has fewer than one-third of the 1.5 million workers it had in 1979, its organizing push in the South has taken on urgency and is being watched closely by labor leaders across the country.

“It’s a life-and-death matter for the U.A.W. to succeed in the South,” said Nelson Lichtenstein, a professor and labor historian at the University of California, Santa Barbara. “That’s why they’ve put their best organizers into this campaign.”

The unionization battle has badly divided workers at the gleaming white Nissan plant here, which stretches four-fifths of a mile along Interstate 55 and produces 450,000 Altimas, Sentras and other vehicles a year. The pro-union forces say many workers are backing the U.A.W., while anti-union workers insist the union has little chance of gaining majority backing. Some anti-union workers wear T-shirts saying, “If you want a union, move to Detroit.”

Despite the union’s previous failures in the South, Bob King, the U.A.W.’s president, has undertaken its most ambitious campaign in the region. In addition to Canton, it is also pushing to organize Volkswagen’s plant in Chattanooga, Tenn., and the Mercedes-Benz plant in Vance, Ala.

“Bob King has basically staked his legacy on organizing these international assembly plants,” said Kristin Dziczek, director of the labor and industry group at the Center for Automotive Research. “Unless they unionize more of the automotive work force in the country, they will become wage takers, not wage setters.”

If the U.A.W. fails to win at the foreign companies’ plants in the South, Ms. Dziczek said, they will pull down wages at General Motors, Ford and Chrysler.

The union faces rough going in Mississippi, she said, considering the embarrassing loss it suffered in 2001 when workers at Nissan’s plant in Smyrna, Tenn., voted two to one against joining the U.A.W.

Mr. King vows better results this time. “What’s different this time is there is really strong and active community support,” he said. Noting that unions in Japan, Germany, Australia and Britain are backing the Mississippi fight, he added: “That kind of global pressure on them, as a labor rights violator, will make a big difference. There are outrageous violations of the workers’ right to organize.”

Union officials say they have not filed any complaints with the National Labor Relations Board but might do so. Ricardo Patah, president of Brazil’s gigantic General Workers Union — it has seven million members and has pledged to picket dozens of Nissan dealerships — said in an interview, “We’re not going to stop until they have a union inside the plant in Mississippi.”

The unionization drive has certainly raised tensions in Canton. On the picturesque town square, with its handsome, pre-Civil War courthouse, Sheaford Davidson, who helps run a company that makes cemetery headstones, said, “We’re a right-to-work state.” He added, “Back in the Industrial Revolution I could see why unions were needed, but we’re now in 2013, and I don’t see the need.”

For Mississippi, landing Nissan was a coup. The 10-year-old auto plant was the state’s first, and its work force has climbed to 5,200, making Nissan the state’s second-largest private employer behind Ingalls Shipbuilding. Blake Wilson, president of the Mississippi Economic Council, the state’s chamber of commerce, praises Nissan for bringing thousands of jobs and donating millions to charities and the Canton school system.

“Across the South, the spirit of a nonunion environment has been a positive in the growth of all kinds of manufacturing,” Mr. Wilson said. “The nonunion environment has been a market edge in Southern states. But if you start seeing that change, it will certainly be a loss for the region.”

Nissan has invested $2 billion in its state-of-the-art plant, which uses 1,200 robots. The base wage for most of the plant’s workers is $23.22 an hour, making them the envy of many blue-collar workers in Mississippi.

“We’re grateful that Nissan came to Mississippi, but as I grow older, I see that there are safety issues and ergonomic issues that need to be addressed,” said Mr. Mock, 39, who has worked at the plant since it opened. “Nissan started out one way, then things changed. We want to make sure our voices are heard.”

Many pro-union workers complain that the company does not listen to workers as much as they would like and puts injured workers back on the line too soon. Many are upset that their wages were frozen for five years and that the plant has hired hundreds of temporary workers, many of them starting around $12 an hour. Many experienced workers complain that they are relegated to night shifts because the temporary workers are often given the coveted day shifts.

“They give them the easier jobs so they won’t leave,” said Chip Wells, also a paint technician. “They’re standing next to us doing the same job, receiving less benefits and less pay. That’s not fair.”

Union officials estimate that 40 percent of the plant’s production workers are temporary. They would not be eligible to participate in the U.A.W. unionization vote. Company officials declined to disclose the number.

Claude Potter, 37, a repair technician in trim and chassis, left his job as an automobile salesman to work at Nissan 10 years ago, convinced that the pay would be steadier.

“I don’t think we should have a union,” Mr. Potter said. “I don’t need to pay somebody to talk for me. If I have a problem, I can go to whoever I need to go to. Is this place perfect? No, but I never worked nowhere where it ever was perfect.”

Camille Young, Nissan’s community relations manager in Canton, noted that most of the plant’s workers were to receive a raise of 55 cents an hour this month. As for complaints about the wage freeze, Nissan officials pointed out that Detroit’s automakers also had an extended freeze, and added that the Canton plant did not lay off anyone during the recession.

The battle’s most emotionally freighted issue involves accusations by some pro-union workers that Nissan managers have sought to intimidate them.

“They say the Big Three shut all these plants down because they were union, and they say if we get a union, they’ll shut our plant down,” said Betty Jones, who attaches parts to vehicle engines. “A lot of people who want the union feel that if they’re open about it, they’re going to lose their jobs.”

Justin Saia, a Nissan spokesman, denied that managers had made such threats. “Nissan is a company that doesn’t tolerate intimidation of employees,” he said. “That wouldn’t be tolerated as a part of our culture.”

These tensions are a far cry from what is happening at Volkswagen’s Chattanooga plant. The U.A.W.’s regional director said last month that the majority of the plant’s 2,000 workers had already signed cards backing unionization.

Moreover, Volkswagen — under pressure from the mighty IG Metall union in Germany — has said it would cooperate with the U.A.W. to form a works council in Chattanooga. Such councils, common in Germany, include blue-collar and white-collar employees and work with management to increase productivity and administer factory rules.

U.A.W. leaders acknowledge that under American law, the Volkswagen plant would need to be unionized first. Some U.A.W. officials are urging Volkswagen to recognize the union based on a majority of cards they say have been signed. But corporate-backed groups like the Workplace Fairness Institute favor an election with secret ballots.

“There’s a lot of pressure on VW to recognize the union,” said Lowell Turner, a professor of international labor relations at Cornell. “Something like 61 out of its 62 plants worldwide have unions and works councils. The only one that doesn’t is Chattanooga.”

Recognizing that it faces a steeper climb in Mississippi, the U.A.W. has made an unusual demand. The union wants Nissan to agree to what it calls “fair election principles” that would allow its organizers equal time on company ground — to counter what the union says have been numerous anti-union meetings and videos. Mr. King said the union would not officially seek a vote until Nissan agreed to these principles.

Like many of her co-workers, Ms. Jones voices dismay that Canton’s workers are generally paid $2 less an hour than Nissan’s workers in Smyrna. The company says that workers at the Tennessee plant, which is 30 years old, have more experience.

Explaining why she favors a union, she said: “I can, of course, talk to you all day long, but if I’m not at the table with you, when you’re making a decision about safety, my health care, my salary, I don’t have any impact on my situation. But if I have 100,000 people behind me at the table, that will make a difference.”

Nissan officials say the company already complies with all legal requirements on unionization efforts.

“Nissan has been committed to following the letter of the law of the N.L.R.B.’s requirements,” said Ms. Young, the community relations manager. “Nissan greatly respects the right of our employees to choose who represents them.”

But union officials warn that they will escalate their fight if they are not given equal access with Nissan. “The auto companies are very concerned about their brand image,” Mr. King said. “When we have these union partners all over the world, and they see you violating basic worker rights in the U.S., that hurts your relationships in all those places, and it hurts your brand image.”

Still, Stephanie Sutton, a paint technician for 10 years, insists that the union has less support than it realizes. She said many workers were speaking out for a union to pressure Nissan to give larger raises, but would not vote for the U.A.W.

“You have a lot of people who talk the talk, but I don’t know if they’re going to stand up when it counts,” she said.
179 2013-10-07 “N.S.A. Examines Social Networks of U.S. Citizens” (front page, Sept. 29) reported that the National Security Agency was using large computerized records about the “social networks” of millions of Americans to hunt for possible links between foreign intelligence and people in the United States. The agency’s approach is not entirely new.

Thirty years ago, in 1983, the Internal Revenue Service tried matching family-by-family commercial marketing information with the tax returns of about two million people in Brooklyn, Wisconsin, Indiana and Nevada to see if it could spot those who had not submitted a proper tax return.

When information about the experiment became public and the Direct Marketing Association strenuously objected, the I.R.S. backed away from its plan to exploit what at the time was considered notoriously inaccurate “social” information for enforcement purposes.

The writer, a former reporter for The New York Times covering the I.R.S. and privacy issues, is the author of “The Rise of the Computer State.”
180 2013-10-07 “In the past, one had to really strive hard to convict somebody of a felony when a dog was the instrument that caused the damage,” said Kenneth M. Phillips, a Los Angeles-based lawyer focused on canine law. “Now, prosecutors are using these laws that usually apply to guns and other weapons to enhance charges. That is going on all over the country right now. Far more than it was even two years ago.”

He traced recent changes in attitude back to the 2001 mauling death of a San Francisco woman, Diane Whipple, which received national attention and resulted in a murder conviction for the dog’s owner. Courts from Arkansas to Washington have come down against defendants.

In Washington, a state appeals court denied a claim by a dog owner, Robbie Hoeldt, that his dog could not be considered a deadly weapon, even though it had attacked a police officer, Detective Bryan Acee. “If Hoeldt had used a gun instead of an attack dog,” the court wrote in 2007, “Detective Acee could have testified that Hoeldt pointed the gun at his chest.”

Criminal laws generally do not include dogs on the list of potentially deadly items whose possession is a crime. In New York, the penal code explicitly lists many items — cane sword, chuka stick, kung fu star — as deadly weapons alongside a gun, a knife and “other dangerous instruments.”

Prosecutors have found that courts will allow broad latitude for classifying ordinary objects as dangerous instruments, depending on the context in which they are used. Over the years in New York, that has included a belt, a wadded-up paper towel used as a gag, a baseball bat, a stickball bat and a spatula. And, in some cases, a dog.

While it is not uncommon now to see convictions in dog attacks for assault with a deadly weapon, the question of whether a person can also be charged with weapons possession in such instances has been more muddled.

In 1956, a Manhattan man was charged with weapons offenses under the Sullivan Law, one of the nation’s first gun-control laws, after his German shepherd jumped on a pair of police officers responding to a dispute. “This is an intelligent and well-trained animal that was ordered to attack the police by its master,” a prosecutor said at the time. In a bit of flair, the 100-pound dog — named Prince — was brought to court as evidence.

Twenty years later, in the case of another German shepherd used in a crime, a Bronx criminal court judge tossed out a weapons possession charge against his owner, who was convicted of other charges. “It is impossible to sustain the argument that a German shepherd dog,” the court wrote, “is includable in the statutory definition of the term ‘deadly weapon.’ ” It did, however, find that the dog qualified as a dangerous instrument.

That was enough in 1992 for a New York appellate court to uphold a weapons possession conviction in Binghamton, N.Y., finding that a dog is an instrument and therefore a weapon. “Defendant caused the animal to growl and lunge at the officers while being restrained only by a leash, which defendant held and could release at any time,” the court said.

Recent cases for criminal possession of a weapon are few and far between in New York City and have not always resulted in convictions, prosecutors said. “Having a C.P.W. charge where the weapon is a dog is rare,” said Sandy Silverstein, a spokesman for the Brooklyn district attorney’s office. Asked about such charges in Manhattan, a spokeswoman for the district attorney declined to comment on “hypotheticals.” A recent case in the Bronx was dismissed. (Last year, a Queens man was sentenced to 12 years for siccing his dog on an officer, but he was not charged with weapons possession.)

Two other such cases involving dogs as supposed weapons did not end with convictions on the weapons charges. One, from 2008, resulted in a plea to another charge, of reckless endangerment; the other, in 2012, was tossed out.

“We see this sort of charge involving a dog literally once in a blue moon,” said Steven Banks, the head lawyer for the Legal Aid Society. “Unfortunately, we frequently see overcharging by the police, particularly when the charging seems related to conduct by the police themselves. The fact that the language of the statute is overbroad is almost a license for overcharging.”

To the police, the charge is anything but excessive. “An attacking dog can be lethal,” said John J. McCarthy, the New York Police Department’s top spokesman. “An officer may discharge their firearm in order to protect themselves or another person.”

The Brooklyn district attorney’s office said the arrest of Mr. Austin came after he left the home with the two dogs and encountered the police. One of the officers told him to control his dogs, but instead, the authorities said, he ordered them to attack, making them the instrument of an attempted assault. Each officer fired two rounds.

A lawyer for Mr. Austin disputed that account, saying his client had been outside for a while before the plainclothes officers rushed up. “He was looking at his dog,” said the lawyer, Rudyard F. Whyte. “The dog was there playing with a pair of pants, because he was just a puppy.” He said both dogs were tethered when the officers arrived.

Neighbors in Bushwick said Mr. Austin and the dogs were a regular presence in the area. John Jones, 27, an engineer for Con Edison, said the dogs were not vicious.

Martin Vidal, 36, a printer, recalled hearing a commotion on the morning of the shooting and walking outside to see Mr. Austin on the ground and in pain. Since then, he has seen little of Mr. Austin.

“I always saw him walking his dogs,” Mr. Vidal said. “Then I didn’t see him no more.”

The trial against Mr. Austin is proceeding, but Mr. Whyte has already filed a parallel suit against the department claiming damages for the gunshot wounds to Mr. Austin — and false arrest.
181 2013-10-08 Tuesday’s highlights from around the Web include a break down of how N.S.A. contractor Edward Snowden’s e-mail service came to its end. Plus, an interview with an antivirus pioneer about his new so-called anti-N.S.A. device....
182 2013-10-08 The company thinks its customers are afraid of change, and it may be right; but it’s in a bind....
183 2013-10-08 Prosecutors are said to have offered the fund a deal to plead guilty and pay a penalty of about $2 billion. If SAC does not accept, a much larger fine is threatened....
184 2013-10-08 Joseph J. Lhota delivered a speech on Tuesday that was at times more focused on criticizing Bill de Blasio than articulating his own positions, although he also delivered a forceful argument in favor of aggressive policing tactics and the expansion of charter schools. Read the entire text of his speech here, with annotations for context and clarity.

My opponent's jobs plan — I occasionally will call him Bill, not Bill Rudin but Bill de Blasio, who is a good friend but we are opponents at this time. Bill de Blasio's job plan, I believe, leaves a lot to be desired. Look what happened and consider Fresh Direct, and the situation the city was in with the 2,100 jobs it has in Queens. Bill was prepared to let Fresh Direct leave and go to New Jersey. Fresh Direct was in active negotiations and had two offers from Governor Christie wanting them to move to New Jersey. Through the leadership of Governor Cuomo and Mayor Bloomberg, there was a solution found to move Fresh Direct from Queens, with its 2,100 jobs, to the South Bronx on property that had been owned by the city of New York. And Fresh Direct has committed to actually increasing their jobs by another 1,000 jobs, one-third of which would go to the people of the Bronx — the county, the borough that has the highest unemployment rate in the city. To me, it was a win-win situation overall. Mr. Lhota invokes both Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat, and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, an independent, as siding with him in supporting Fresh Direct's controversial move from Queens to the Bronx. He could have mentioned Ruben Diaz Jr., the Bronx borough president, as well, since Mr. Diaz, another Democrat, also supported the plan. It's all part of Mr. Lhota's continuing attempt to portray Mr. de Blasio as too far to the left on economic policies for the general public, or even in the Democratic Party.
185 2013-10-08 Older people living near noisy airports may have an increased risk for cardiovascular disease, a new study reports....
186 2013-10-08 Google is making it harder for business owners to track how someone gets to a Web site. But there are things an owner can do....
187 2013-10-08 Reasons to fear the debt ceiling. How the last recession still haunts. Where Twitter’s users are....
188 2013-10-08 With Steven A. Ballmer retiring as chief executive, some observers wonder if Bill Gates may return to bigger day-to-day duties at the company he built....
189 2013-10-08 Gidon Kremer, the violinist who organized the concert “To Russia With Love,” hoped it would be followed in Russia and inspire those who are struggling there against the recent crackdown on human rights....
190 2013-10-08 The Philadelphia Flyers fired Coach Peter Laviolette on Monday after an 0-3 start. An assistant, Craig Berube, in his seventh season with the organization after also playing for the team, will take his place. Laviolette was hired early in the 2009 season and led the Flyers on an improbable run to the 2010 Stanley Cup finals. Last season, the Flyers missed the playoffs for the first time in his tenure after a lockout shortened the campaign.

“I thought our training camp, quite frankly, was one of the worst training camps I’ve ever seen,” said the team’s owner, Ed Snider. “I’m not talking about wins or losses. There was nothing exciting. Nobody shined. Nobody looked good.”
191 2013-10-08 President Obama’s top technology adviser said the failure occurred in the part of the Web site that lets people create user accounts at the beginning of the insurance sign-up process....
192 2013-10-08 Even as the shutdown of the federal government dragged on last week and it seemed bipartisan cooperation had become an obsolete relic, members of Congress managed to honor a moral obligation. They rescued an important program that extends visas to Iraqi translators who risked their lives to assist American troops during the Iraq war and now face threats of retribution.

The special visa program, enacted in 2007, was scheduled to expire with the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30. Senator Jeanne Shaheen, a New Hampshire Democrat, and John McCain, an Arizona Republican, successfully pressed to get their chamber to act on an expedited basis to approve a three-month extension that would stand a chance in the Republican-led House.

The Senate passed its bill by unanimous consent on Monday, Sept. 30. With support from the House majority leader, Eric Cantor; Robert Goodlatte, a Republican of Virginia; and the Democratic whip, Steny Hoyer; the House approved an identical bill on Oct. 2, which President Obama signed into law on Friday. It was a real accomplishment for a single week, especially in the midst of the shutdown chaos and animosities.

The final measure is a compromise. Many Democrats would have preferred extending the measure for a year or longer without a $1 charge imposed on new visas to pay for it. House Republicans made an exception to their rule that new program costs be financed by budget cuts rather than revenue sources.

The bill doesn’t solve the existing backlog in the special visa program. The pace of conducting the required background checks and approving visas for the Iraqi translators is said to be improving. But there are several thousand applicants who have submitted their paperwork, including police reports from their home jurisdictions and medical background reports, who remain in line, awaiting word. And there could be another emergency for Iraqis seeking visas after the three-month extension if an agreement on an annual defense appropriations bill containing a longer extension stalls.

For the moment, though, this limited, short-term solution to a pressing problem is worth noting in the bleak dysfunction of Washington.
193 2013-10-08 “We didn’t know much about the Tough Mudder at first,” Bijon Sengupta, Avishek’s father, said in a phone interview. “We thought it was like a marathon or some race like this. We had no idea something like this existed until somebody at my work told me about the obstacles. Still, I didn’t think it could cost somebody their life. It shouldn’t have.”

On Oct. 19 and 20, the Tough Mudder will return to the Gerrardstown gun range. The Walk the Plank obstacle will again be part of the course, though with one change: dividers have been added to the top of the platform so safety workers and volunteers can control and track the flow of participants into the water.

Bijon Sengupta said he was “extremely disappointed” that the obstacle has not been eliminated.

“I’m concerned about other kids, too,” he said. “I don’t want this to happen to anybody else. It’s an accident waiting to happen.”

Baxter said that the Tough Mudder had never abandoned an obstacle. Rather, he said, safety and medical advisers work with organizers to tweak obstacles that cause competitors to struggle or become injured more frequently.

“Frankly, we are pretty obsessive about using data to improve our obstacles,” Baxter said. “We have been able to adapt obstacles in some cases to make them safer or change them because our competitors aren’t enjoying them as much.”

According to a report from the County Sheriff’s Department that listed Sengupta’s death as an accidental drowning, lifeguards and other workers at Walk the Plank did not immediately realize that Sengupta had not surfaced after plunging into the pool of muddy water. He had jumped off a 15-foot platform before one of his teammates, De’Yonte Wilkinson, who remained atop the platform. Wilkinson became concerned and began shouting, “Avi!” when Sengupta did not emerge, according to another teammate, Arsham Mirshah.

Wilkinson said that there was a delay in getting the attention of the lifeguards assigned to the obstacle, and that it took several more minutes for the diver from the water-rescue firm hired by organizers to enter the water to begin looking for Sengupta, according to the sheriff’s report.

Wilkinson told investigators that at least seven minutes elapsed from the time Sengupta entered the water until he was pulled out — in full cardiac arrest — by a diver. Some witnesses told sheriff’s investigators that Sengupta had been submerged for as long as 10 minutes.

“When they pulled his body out of the water, I had never cried so deeply in my life,” Mirshah said. “It was devastating to see. It was a gruesome scene. I don’t want this to happen to anybody else.”

According to the , brain cells begin to die after five minutes of oxygen deprivation, and , and brain death can occur beyond that point.

In Sengupta’s case, it took 38 minutes for medics using , an artificial defibrillator and numerous injections to get his heart beating after he was rescued from the water, according to a report obtained from the Berkeley County Emergency Ambulance Authority.

There are obvious risks to crawling under barbed wire, taking in up to 10,000 volts from hanging electrodes or jumping over flames, obstacles that are not dissimilar to those employed by the Spartan Race, Warrior Dash and other Tough Mudder-style races that have proliferated in recent years. For that reason, all Tough Mudder participants are required to sign the so-called death waiver. The release signed by Sengupta made up the final pages of a report about his death produced by the county sheriff’s office.

Sengupta was one of 14 Tough Mudder participants that weekend who were transported by ambulance or helicopter to nearby hospitals after being injured, according to records provided by the county ambulance authority. Most cases were for injured knees and ankles, although there were more serious injuries. One man was found “unconscious, unresponsive and on the ground” at the final obstacle, where participants are shocked with hanging yellow wires; another was knocked out after he struck his head on a log obstacle; and a woman was airlifted to a hospital after sustaining what appeared to be a stroke.

The temperature when the race took place was unseasonably cool, and participants were treated by medical workers for after several water obstacles, including the Enema, where participants waded through a pool of ice. The sheriff’s report on Sengupta’s death listed the temperature as 54 degrees at the time of the episode.

“Probably the biggest factor was that it was a cool spring day for April,” said Donnie Grubb, trauma coordinator at WV University Healthcare’s Berkeley Medical Center in nearby Martinsburg. “There were more hypothermia cases than you’d expect to see. We expected to see a few injuries, but not from exposure. We saw a huge influx in the afternoon. We had so many at one time it really taxed our resources.”

Berkeley Medical Center treated 20 participants during the two-day event, including two who had heart attacks; two, including Sengupta, listed as “potential drownings”; one listed as an electrocution; and several who had orthopedic injuries, according to the hospital spokeswoman Teresa McCabe. Winchester (Va.) Medical Center also treated some participants, but a hospital spokesman was unable to provide details.

Grubb said WV University Healthcare officials had more extensive meetings with Tough Mudder officials in preparation for this month’s event, and the county sheriff, Kenny Lemaster, said his department had also had more contact with Tough Mudder staff members and with the vendors that provide medical services and parking.

Sengupta, who never regained consciousness, was identified with the help of Tough Mudder staff members and the sheriff’s department before he was transferred by helicopter from the area hospital to Inova Fairfax Hospital in Falls Church, Va. Sengupta’s family made the hour drive there from suburban Baltimore, checking in with their son’s friends and teammates en route.

“We had no idea how hurt he was at first,” Avishek’s mother, Mita, said. “We were just getting pieces of information. We kept calling a friend who is a physician and realized he was in a bad way. Even then, we never thought we wouldn’t see him alive again. That was the furthest thing from our minds.

“When we finally got to the emergency room, we realized how bad it was when we were met by a social worker — not a doctor.”
194 2013-10-08 A financial analyst who graduated from college last year drew intense media attention here when bills showed that his services were costing $275 an hour — $26,000 for two weeks, and that was only part of the more than $200,000 his turnaround and restructuring firm, Conway MacKenzie, had billed for the same two-week stretch, records showed.

The State of Michigan is required to pay $275,000 a year to Kevyn Orr, a former Jones Day partner brought here by Gov. Rick Snyder’s administration as an emergency manager assigned to find a way out of the financial mess. But the city itself will pay $225,000 a year each to two top aides to Mr. Orr — aides who city officials say replaced two similar positions in the mayor’s office — as well as smaller salaries for a few more workers as part of Mr. Orr’s team.

Among other tolls the city now unhappily finds itself bearing: $200,000 (plus as much as $50,000 in expenses) to Christie’s, the auction house, to appraise works at the Detroit Institute of Arts as part of the proceedings, despite strenuous objections of Detroit leaders at the very thought that the art may be at risk.

Even the bills for Robert M. Fishman, the Chicago lawyer appointed by the bankruptcy court judge as the fee examiner assigned to scrutinize fees billed to the city, will be paid by the city. His price: $600 an hour for him (a discount, court documents show, from his usual $675) and $430 an hour, at most, for his firm’s work over all. His bill for August seeks $28,407.85 for his work so far, in addition to more than $14,000 for his law firm and $5,000 more for a consulting financial firm.

“They say we’re broke, but yet we’re still taking money from our budget to pay people to help us resolve issues that we could handle without outside help,” said the Rev. W. J. Rideout III, a local pastor.

The costs are mostly unavoidable, bankruptcy experts unconnected to Detroit’s case say, and probably will fall far below the totals spent in major corporate bankruptcies. Because municipal bankruptcies, known as Chapter 9, are extremely rare, they require expertise from a relatively small cast of lawyers and consultants, the experts said, particularly given that the city’s creditors have hired their own top-flight lawyers. Meanwhile, most of the city’s consultants are seeking significantly less in Detroit’s circumstances than they usually do. Conway MacKenzie, for instance, is charging 25 percent less than its usual rates, the company said.

“These are very competent, very experienced professionals,” Bill Nowling, a spokesman for Detroit’s emergency manager, said of the city’s advisers. “They don’t work for free. To get to the level of work we need, we have to pay those competitive fees. But we’re always very conscious of, ‘Are we getting value for our money?’ ”

One complication of estimating the cost of Detroit’s crisis is that the tally includes not only court proceedings, but also broader, lengthier efforts to reshape the city’s finances and operations. Long before the city sought bankruptcy protection in July, as city officials raced to restructure its finances, Detroit already was hiring some of the 15 firms with sizable contracts; at least two of the firms, city records show, had contracts for related work approved before 2013. Hiring was initially done by the City Council and, after Mr. Orr was sent to repair Detroit in March, by Mr. Orr’s office.

Some costs, too, will be paid by the state, officials said, noting that Michigan has agreed to pay as much as $4.7 million to share a portion of the city’s contracts with four firms, including Conway MacKenzie and Ernst & Young, the financial adviser.

Other expenses, including Mr. Orr’s housing (he stays in a condominium at the Westin Book Cadillac hotel) and travel (he regularly flies to his family home in the Washington area), are being paid by New Energy to Reinvent and Diversify, known as NERD, a nonprofit fund created by Mr. Snyder as a “social welfare organization” and not required, under federal provisions, to divulge its donors.

Since April, the fund has paid $4,200 a month for such expenses, an aide to Mr. Snyder said. Mr. Orr also gets protection from the Michigan State Police, though officials said the costs were covered by that agency’s existing budget.

“This is the largest, most complicated Chapter 9 filing in the state’s and country’s history,” said Sara Wurfel, a spokeswoman for Mr. Snyder, who approved the city’s pursuit of bankruptcy protection. “It will solve a financial crisis 60 years in the making. While it’s imperative that we’re being extremely prudent on costs, it’s also imperative that this is done right and as quickly and efficiently as possible.”

James E. Spiotto, a lawyer who is a bankruptcy expert, said it was difficult to predict Detroit’s costs in part because so few American cities, towns, villages and counties — fewer than 65 since 1954 — have filed for bankruptcy, a process that can itself grow costly. “That’s one reason why Chapter 9 is rarely used by cities of any size,” he said. “With size come problems of size. And once you get in court, everybody is entitled to due process, and that can be expensive.”

Jefferson County, Ala., which sought bankruptcy protection in 2011, has spent about $22 million, or about $1 million a month, according to David Carrington, that county commission’s president. Stockton, Calif., has spent $9 million on legal and other fees tied to its bankruptcy filing in 2012, city officials said. Vallejo, Calif., which emerged from bankruptcy in 2011, has spent $13 million since 2007, the city said.

In Detroit, a judge last month approved an outline of spending rules with which Mr. Fishman, the fee examiner, is to monitor charges to the city on the court case itself. Among regulations those working for Detroit must now follow: time spent traveling can be billed for up to one-half of a firm’s applicable rate. And generally not subject to city repayment will be expenses for alcohol, first-class plane flights and motel room movies.
195 2013-10-08 A record-breaking storm that dumped four feet of snow in western South Dakota left tens of thousands of people without electricity on Monday and ranchers bracing for heavy losses. The weekend storm was part of a powerful weather system that also buried parts of Wyoming and Colorado with snow, and spawned destructive tornadoes in Nebraska and Iowa. At least four deaths were attributed to the weather, including that of a South Dakota man who collapsed while clearing snow. Cattle ranchers in western South Dakota were reporting losing between 20 percent and 50 percent of their herds, and early estimates suggest the region may have lost 5 percent or more of its cattle.
196 2013-10-08 Still, the narrative of the rescuing founder remains a powerful one, especially since Steven P. Jobs, a rival of Mr. Gates’s, returned to Apple and transformed it into one of the world’s most profitable companies. Microsoft has struggled in important new markets in recent years, particularly with mobile phones and tablets, leading some executives in the tech industry to call for Mr. Gates to return as chief executive.

The search for Mr. Ballmer’s replacement is still in its early stages. Although the process could suddenly accelerate, the board is in no hurry to act before the end of the year, said a person briefed on the succession plans.

According to this and another person with knowledge of the Microsoft’s chief executive search, the list of executives being considered for the job includes Alan Mulally, the chief executive of Ford; Paul Maritz, a former Microsoft executive who now leads a cloud technology company called Pivotal; Tony Bates, a current Microsoft executive who came to the company through its acquisition of Skype; and Stephen Elop, the Nokia executive who has already announced his intention to return to Microsoft once the company completes its acquisition of Nokia’s phone business.

Frank Shaw, a Microsoft spokesman, declined to comment on potential candidates for chief executive.

Among outsiders, Mr. Mulally of Ford is a favorite because of his success in reviving Ford without the help of the government bailout and bankruptcy filing used by the other two Detroit automakers, General Motors and Chrysler.

Mr. Mulally was unavailable for comment about whether he has interest in the Microsoft job. He does not have a software background, which has given some current and former Microsoft employees pause because they believe the company needs a leader with a strong technology vision. Another concern is Mr. Mulally’s age, 68, which suggests he may not be in the job for long.

Mr. Mulally has consistently said he will stay as chief executive at Ford at least through 2014. Ford’s board is set to meet on Wednesday, and its directors may be under pressure to address the speculation before it becomes a distraction.

“There is no change to what we announced last November,” said Jay Cooney, a Ford spokesman. “Alan is absolutely focused on continuing to make progress on the One Ford plan.”

No talk about Microsoft’s future gets very far before Mr. Gates’s name is mentioned. Long the face of the company and one of the world’s richest people, Mr. Gates turned his attention to philanthropy in 2008, focusing much of his efforts on education and global health challenges like the fight against H.I.V.

He has significantly reduced his holdings in the company in recent years, putting much of the money toward his philanthropy. But he still owns 4.52 percent of Microsoft’s stock, worth about $12.8 billion, more than any other individual shareholder. A decade ago, he held 10.75 percent.

Along the way, he has remained engaged in discussions about products at Microsoft, meeting frequently with executives from the company. Typically, he takes product briefings from Microsoft executives at his personal offices in Kirkland, a Seattle suburb a short drive from Microsoft’s headquarters in Redmond, people with knowledge of the meetings said. These meetings can happen once a week or less, depending on his travel schedule for his philanthropic duties and the flow of Microsoft product development.

At the product meetings, he has met with managers of the Windows, Bing search and Office products. He is considered a “fresh set of eyes” whose input is valued by Microsoft executives, one person familiar with the meetings said.

For reasons that are unclear, Mr. Gates showed up for a handful of product briefings on the company’s campus in the weeks after Mr. Ballmer’s resignation was announced. Mr. Shaw of Microsoft said the amount of time Mr. Gates was spending with Microsoft employees had not changed meaningfully.

“Bill’s overall engagement with Microsoft product and engineering teams has remained consistent since he transitioned to his current role,” Mr. Shaw said.

There is a faction of Microsoft investors and former employees that thinks the company needs less, not more, of Mr. Gates. As chairman, these people believe, Mr. Gates deserves equal blame for Microsoft’s travails in recent years.

Last week, news reports surfaced that three unnamed shareholders had begun pressing the Microsoft board for Mr. Gates to leave as chairman because they believed he would be an impediment to strategy changes by the new chief executive.

Any such push is very unlikely to succeed in forcing Mr. Gates to distance himself from the company, according to several people who know Mr. Gates and the dynamics of the board. Last Thursday, the Microsoft board recommended Mr. Gates’ re-election as a director, according to a company filing with securities regulators.

Mr. Gates’s future role will partly be up to the new chief executive. Jeffrey A. Sonnenfeld, senior associate dean at the Yale School of Management, said it would be important for Microsoft’s new leader to keep Mr. Gates around.

“I think it’s hugely positive,” he said about Mr. Gates’s presence at the company. “You can have a wise elder statesperson who is very inspirational if they know the boundaries.”

Among many aspiring techies, he still remains an inspirational, Walt Disney-like figure seen as a founding father of the industry.

“When I was growing up, Bill Gates was my hero,” Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, said in a speech at a conference last month. He added: “I think he’s one of the greatest visionaries that our industry has ever had.”
197 2013-10-08 A crane malfunctioned on Monday at the same Midtown Manhattan high-rise that was the scene of a crane accident during Hurricane Sandy.

Around 9:30 a.m., the crane, at 157 West 57th Street, between Avenue of the Americas and Seventh Avenue, was being used to hoist a concrete counterweight labeled at 13,500 pounds when it stopped working properly, leaving the load hanging about 30 stories above the street for several hours.

A one-block stretch of 57th Street was closed to vehicular traffic. Eventually, workers were able to slowly lower the load down to the ground, and about 4 p.m., the street was reopened.

The authorities had said they were working the fix the problem as quickly as possible because winds were expected to pick up later in the day and New York City was under a tornado watch.

The crane is at the same 74-story luxury skyscraper where, one year ago, an 80-mile-per-hour gust of wind during Hurricane Sandy almost sent the boom of a crane crashing down to the streets below.

After the storm, a new crane was erected so work could continue on the building, one of the tallest construction projects in North America, where top-floor apartments have sold for around $100 million.
198 2013-10-08 He trained at his alma mater, Notre Dame High School in Sherman Oaks, Calif., with his longtime friend Chris Sailer, a kicking specialist who has worked with Folk since eighth grade. Healthy and fit, Folk wasted little time getting back on the field, joining Sailer in January.

“He felt like, ‘Hey, Chris, for the first time I can put more training in at a higher level,’ ” Sailer said, “ ‘while in the past, I kind of felt like I was rehabbing a little bit, taking things slow.”

In a telephone interview, Sailer said that they had gone to work fine-tuning Folk’s stance and adjusting the tempo with which he approached the ball, focusing on maintaining one speed. At times on field goals Folk would start his motion too slowly, then accelerate.

“That will cause a lot of problems with your body positioning,” Sailer said. “It will kind of yank your body when you make contact.”

Sailer has long known another thing about Folk: he does not like to lose. Not in darts. Not in golf. Not in backyard soccer games. Not in kicking.

Folk has always reveled in competition, Sailer said. But there is natural frustration with the Jets’ repeated efforts to add a challenger.

“It’s one of the things we talk about,” Sailer said. “You know that’s coming.”

Folk is well versed in the fickleness of the profession. He made the Pro Bowl as a rookie in 2007 but was cut by the Cowboys midseason in 2009, while leading the league with 10 missed field-goal attempts. Initially, he did not want to blame his labrum surgery from seven months earlier, but he later acknowledged that he had come back too early.

Folk knows the stories from around the league, too. Sailer trains more than a dozen N.F.L. kickers with varying degrees of job security, understanding how quickly fortunes can change. Shayne Graham, the sixth most accurate kicker in N.F.L. history, had suited up for six teams since 2009 before the Cleveland Browns cut him over the summer. Before signing Kai Forbath in October last year, the Washington Redskins had gone through 18 kickers since 1994.

When Folk arrived in 2010, he was the fifth Jets kicker since 1997.

“It’s part of the game,” Folk said. “That’s the only way to look at it — it’s part of the business, part of the game.” He added that it was not just him feeling pressured this summer. The new general manager, John Idzik, made it a teamwide exercise.

“When John came in, that was his mantra — competition at every position,” Folk said. “So we had it: we had two snappers, two punters, two kickers.”

The Jets’ special-teams coordinator, Ben Kotwica, could not tell whether competition made the difference, but he had noticed a change. So has Sailer.

“His ball is coming off his foot with a bit more power,” Sailer said. “Kickoffs look a bit more explosive to me. All of it comes with confidence and feeling really healthy and good about himself.”

It also may be partly a result of beating out challengers each and every summer, passing the tests the Jets seem to throw at him and getting better each time.

“If that’s paid off, hopefully so,” Kotwica said. “Right now, I like the way he’s doing it and the way he’s carrying himself going out there. There’s a confident kicker going out there. He’s done a great job.”
199 2013-10-08 In the latest example of management turmoil at The Philadelphia Inquirer, William K. Marimow was fired as the paper’s top editor on Monday.

The news was announced in a brief e-mail sent to staff members in the morning by the newspaper’s publisher, Robert J. Hall.

Mr. Marimow, a former investigative journalist and two-time Pulitzer Prize winner, had been rehired as The Inquirer’s top editor shortly after the newspaper was bought in April 2012 by a group of local investors that acquired the Philadelphia Media Network, which also publishes The Daily News and Philly.com. The return of Mr. Marimow, who was the top editor at The Inquirer from 2006 to 2010, had been viewed as an effort by new owners to reassure staff members shaken by cost-cutting measures and changes in management.

But after Mr. Marimow attended the paper’s 10:30 a.m. news meeting on Monday, he was fired by Mr. Hall. Within minutes, Mr. Hall distributed a memo that read: “Please be advised that effective immediately, Bill Marimow is no longer employed by Interstate General Media, Inc. We wish Bill well in his future endeavors. Stan Wischnowski will become acting editor of The Philadelphia Inquirer.” Mr. Wischnowski also replaced Mr. Marimow in 2010.

The dismissal stirred reaction on Twitter and blogs about Mr. Marimow’s departure and spawned speculation about whether all of the investors knew that Mr. Marimow was to be let go. The investor group running The Inquirer includes George E. Norcross III, who is a Democratic power broker in South Jersey, and the parking lot magnate Lewis Katz.
200 2013-10-08 The mood in financial markets was cautious on Monday as the partial shutdown of the American government entered a seventh day and lawmakers appeared to be making little headway in raising the country’s debt ceiling.

The Dow Jones industrial average fell 136 points, or 0.9 percent, to close at 14,936 on Monday. The Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 14 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,676, the lowest in a month. The Nasdaq composite fell 37 points, or 1 percent, to 3,770.

Global markets were mainly lower and the price of oil dropped as traders became nervous about the standoff in Washington, particularly over the debt ceiling. The United States has to raise its debt ceiling by Oct. 17. If it doesn’t, the world’s largest economy faces the possibility of defaulting on its debts, a move that would send shock waves around the global economy and financial markets.

Though most analysts think a deal between Republicans in Congress and the White House to avoid default will be cobbled together in time, investors are fidgety — uncertainty discourages them from buying into risky assets, like stocks.

On Sunday, House Speaker John Boehner ruled out a vote on a straightforward bill to raise the government’s borrowing authority without concessions from President Obama before the deadline.
201 2013-10-08 Boeing has said it had simply been trying to get the designs right for the new planes, and its sales force started pitching airlines and jet leasing companies last spring on the 777X, its name for more fuel-efficient versions of its popular 777 jet. The twin-engine planes now carry more than 300 passengers over long distances, making them economical workhorses for many airlines, and the new versions could carry 350 to 400 people.

Boeing’s board has not yet granted formal approval or money to start work on the 777X, while Airbus has already conducted the first test flight of the A350. Analysts now expect the board to approve the 777X this month, and the airline Emirates has said it might follow that approval with an order for 100 to 175 of the planes, worth perhaps $30 billion to $50 billion at list prices.

Support from Emirates and other large carriers will undoubtedly make the 777X a success over all, the analysts said, especially since the global demand for new fuel-saving planes far outstrips the ability of Boeing and Airbus, the main manufacturers of large airliners, to build them.

But Boeing’s strategy calls for it to be dominant in the sales of midsize and larger jetliners because Airbus has pulled ahead in sales of the newest single-aisle planes, with the A320 neo tallying more advance sales than Boeing’s 737 MAX.

“Boeing management has focused recently on its plans to dominate the wide-body market,” Ronald J. Epstein, an aviation analyst for Bank of America Merrill Lynch, wrote in a note to clients. But if Japan Airlines’ order for the A350s “is any indication,” he added, “this may not be playing out as planned.”

Two other longtime Boeing customers, Cathay Pacific Airways and the International Airlines Group, which runs British Airways, also have ordered A350s.

Boeing hopes to capture most of the wide-body sales by offering three different-sized versions of the 787 and two models of the new 777, which will have a giant wing made of carbon composites. The lightweight materials have helped the first version of the 787 cut fuel costs by 20 percent compared with older planes, and the A350 is expected to offer similar savings.

Over the decades, Japanese companies have come to play an important role as Boeing suppliers, culminating with the 787, 35 percent of whose parts are made in Japan.

The government has provided generous subsidies to the suppliers, helping them to win crucial contracts with Boeing and reducing Boeing’s upfront costs. Japanese companies are responsible for 12 percent of the A350’s production, and now Airbus could offer the Japanese more work to win more sales.

Before Monday’s deal, Boeing and Airbus had competed head-to-head virtually everywhere in the world except for Japan. It is Asia’s second-biggest airline market, and for political reasons since the reconstruction after World War II, it had been all but a captive buyer of American airplanes.

For JAL, as the airline is known, the contract is partly about diversifying its suppliers, along with quicker delivery times. Airbus has promised to deliver the planes by 2019. Boeing does not expect to sell its first 777X until 2020, and many analysts doubt it can meet that deadline, given all the problems in other new planes.

“Certainly this is the big order Airbus was hoping for, the big foot in the door that could lead to new orders,” said Will Horton, an analyst at the CAPA Center for Aviation in Hong Kong.

JAL, one of the early buyers of the 787, was frustrated this year after battery problems grounded the Dreamliners for several months; at the time, JAL indicated a need for a second aircraft supplier. But JAL’s president, Yoshiharu Ueki, said on Monday that the decision to buy the A350 had “nothing to do with that situation” and was focused more on low operating costs.

Still, Scott Hamilton, managing director of the Leeham Company, an aviation consulting firm in Issaquah, Wash., said the airline’s earlier statements indicated that “there was some recognition that maybe you do need to have dual sourcing.” He added, “The fact that Airbus could deliver the A350 before the 777X is part of it.” And given that sales of commercial jets often come with large discounts off the list price, he said, “I’m sure JAL got a hell of a deal.”

Boeing declined to comment, other than issuing a statement that read in part, “Although we are disappointed with the selection, we will continue to provide the most efficient and innovative products and services that meet longer-term fleet requirements for Japan Airlines.”

Airbus and Boeing have been jousting for global leadership for years, with Boeing regaining the top spot in orders last year for the first time in a decade.

Airbus long ago pushed into faster-growing Asian markets like China. But JAL had never bought a plane from Airbus, and JAL’s main domestic rival, All Nippon Airways, operates mostly Boeing jets.

Fabrice Brégier said he had been courting JAL executives intently since taking over as chief executive of Airbus last year. “I think in the past Airbus did not work closely enough with potential customers in Japan,” he said.

JAL, which was once owned by the government, was privatized in 1987, only to be bailed out repeatedly with public money.

“Now they are trying to express their independence and trying to run the business for shareholders and customers, not politicians,” said Ryota Himeno, an analyst at Barclays Capital.
202 2013-10-09 China holds $1.28 trillion in U.S. government debt, and its prime minister, Li Keqiang, told Secretary of State John Kerry of his concerns about the debt ceiling fight in Congress....
203 2013-10-09 Paul McCartney performed at the Frank Sinatra School of the Arts in Astoria, Queens, to promote his new album, “New.”...
204 2013-10-09 John Greyson and Tarek Loubani, Canadians detained in Egypt in August and still barred from leaving the country, posted a message of thanks to their supporters on YouTube on Wednesday....
205 2013-10-09 An economist finds that individuals’ access to contraceptives increased their children’s college completion, labor-force participation, wages and family incomes....
206 2013-10-09 We are holding an event about web performance on Oct. 16, in partnership with Google. Even though we’re out of tickets, you can watch a livestream of the event....
207 2013-10-09 Chris Leh’s S.B.A. loan is on hold. That means he can’t buy a machine that is supposed to help him service a new client that he thought was going to triple his revenue....
208 2013-10-09 A closer look at an animation attempting to explain the difference between climate trends and variations....
209 2013-10-09 The shutdown has brought the work of the Chemical Safety Board to a screeching halt....
210 2013-10-09 Over eight months, Verizon Communications has raised its offer for Vodafone’s 45 percent stake in their enormous wireless joint venture by 37 percent, to $130 billion....
211 2013-10-09 The company’s goal is to make money from the world of dance music, which has existed on the margins of the music industry for decades but has lately become its hottest genre....
212 2013-10-09 Metropolitan Diary: On the Upper East Side, an oddly unprofessional response to a neighbor’s noise complaint....
213 2013-10-09 Optimism and confidence are fading. Rethinking the smoke detector. Fighting the Better Business Bureau....
214 2013-10-09 Physical activity, even including walking, can substantially reduce a woman’s risk of developing breast cancer, encouraging new science shows, in part, it seems, by changing how her body deals with estrogen....
215 2013-10-09 Richard Gasquet was dealt a setback in his bid to qualify for the season-ending ATP Finals, losing to Vasek Pospisil, 6-3, 6-4, in the first round of the Shanghai Masters.

■ Ana Ivanovic began her bid for a third Generali Ladies title by defeating Yanina Wickmayer, 6-2, 6-4, in Linz, Austria. Sloane Stephens overcame a slow start to beat Magdalena Rybarikova, 6-3, 6-1 in the first round.
216 2013-10-09 Philip Chevron, the guitarist for the Anglo-Irish rock band the Pogues, died on Tuesday in Dublin. He was 56.

The Pogues’ manager, Mark Addis, said that Mr. Chevron died after being treated for head and neck cancer. Mr. Chevron first announced that he had cancer in 2007, but it had been in remission until last year.

Philip Ryan was born in Dublin on June 17, 1957. He was a member of the seminal Irish punk band the Radiators From Space before joining the Pogues a few years after the group was formed in 1982.

The Pogues, based in London and fronted by the singer Shane MacGowan, found success by fusing traditional Irish music, rock and punk into a boisterous and exhilarating hybrid on albums like “Rum Sodomy & the Lash” and “If I Should Fall From Grace With God.”

Mr. Chevron wrote several of the group’s songs, including one of its best-known, “Thousands Are Sailing,” a ballad about Irish emigration.

The Pogues broke up in 1996, five years after Mr. MacGowan’s excessive drinking led the band to fire him. They reunited in 2001 and have remained together since then.
217 2013-10-09 Michael R. Otterson, managing director of public affairs for the church, said the talks at the General Conference were intended to inspire, uplift and counsel individual members, and were not political pronouncements.

“General Conference is not to be understood through sound bites, especially when people take a sentence here and there and try to justify their own political agendas. That reflects a very poor level of spiritual maturity,” he wrote in an e-mail in response to questions.

The church’s top authority is its president and prophet, Thomas S. Monson, but at age 86 his strength is waning, according to many familiar with the church’s leadership. At the conference, he spoke of his grief over the death of his wife this year.

President Uchtdorf is one of the two counselors who advise President Monson. He startled many listeners by speaking with empathy for Mormons who doubt or even leave the church.

“Sometimes we assume it is because they have been offended, or lazy, or sinful. Actually, it is not that simple,” he said.

“Some struggle with unanswered questions about things that have been done or said in the past,” he said. “To be perfectly frank, there have been times when members or leaders in the church have simply made mistakes. There may have been things said or done that were not in harmony with our values, principles, or doctrine.”

He added that while God is perfect, God “works through us, his imperfect children.”

Terryl and Fiona Givens, married Mormon scholars who conducted a series of seminars in the United States and Europe this year for Mormons struggling with questions about their faith, said that Mr. Uchtdorf’s talk was seminal because of the admission that church leaders were fallible.

“In a single blow, it shattered the cultural mythology that has been at the root of the doubt and disaffection that affects our members,” said Terryl Givens, a professor of literature and religion at the University of Richmond and the author of books on Mormonism.

Mrs. Givens said, “I’m looking at his talk as the balm of Gilead for many people who are struggling with questions to which they cannot find answers.”

The history that has unsettled some Mormons includes the facts that the church’s founder and first prophet, Joseph Smith, married multiple women, many of whom already had husbands; and that Brigham Young, who succeeded Smith, barred blacks from the priesthood — a policy reversed in 1978 by declaring a new revelation from God.

The Mormon Church does not condone gay marriage but includes active members who are increasingly making their dissent known. Apostle Dallin H. Oaks, a former Utah Supreme Court justice, told the conference that the church’s policies on homosexuality are “determined by the truths God has declared to be unchangeable.”
218 2013-10-09 As members of the New York City Opera Orchestra, we are saddened on both a personal and professional level by the dissolution of our company.

The general state of affairs at the New York City Opera and its slow demise have been widely reported on and known for several years. However, we continue to believe that New York City can, indeed, support a second major repertory opera company — one with visionary leadership, both musical and managerial, that provides a home for rising talent and compelling performances for the public. Our fervent hope is that one will soon arise.

The writer is chairwoman of the New York City Opera Orchestra Committee. The letter was signed by four other committee members.
219 2013-10-09 Forensic studies, including one ordered by the United Nations, have identified the culprit bacteria as an Asian strain imported to Haiti by Nepalese members of the United Nations peacekeeping force, known as the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti, which was first authorized in 2004 and maintains about 8,700 soldiers and police officers there, drawn from more than three dozen member states. The forensic studies have also linked the spread of the cholera to a flawed sanitation system at the Nepalese peacekeeper base, which contaminated a tributary that feeds Haiti’s largest river, used by Haitians for drinking and bathing.

Beatrice Lindstrom, a spokeswoman for the Institute for Justice and Democracy in Haiti, the -based rights group that prepared the lawsuit, said in a telephone interview that the listed plaintiffs were five cholera victims, who were seeking redress for themselves and all afflicted Haitians and their families. Ms. Lindstrom said the institute had decided to file the suit in New York because it is the site of United Nations headquarters and has an enormous Haitian expatriate population.

“We are asking for the judge to find the United Nations liable,” she said. “It has violated its legal obligations through reckless actions that brought cholera to Haiti.” The lawsuit did not specify the amount of compensation sought, which Ms. Lindstrom said would be “determined at trial.”

It was far from clear that the lawsuit would be accepted by the court, which affords broad latitude to diplomatic protections for the United Nations against such litigation. These protections are partly rooted in the formal legal conventions created with the inception of the United Nations after World War II. “The majority view is that the U.N. and U.N. entities are immune from domestic lawsuits,” said J. Paust, a professor of international law at the Law Center of the .

Eight months ago, , the secretary general of the United Nations, informed Haitian leaders that it would not accept claims for compensation made by victims of the outbreak, citing a provision of the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations.

Ms. Lindstrom said the United Nations had also rebuffed her group’s attempts to address the issue. “They’ve refused to sit down for a conversation with the victims, or with us,” she said.

Navi Pillay, the top human rights official at the United Nations, suggested on Tuesday from her headquarters in that Haiti’s cholera victims were entitled to some compensation, although she did not specify who should provide it.

Farhan Haq, a spokesman for Mr. Ban, declined to comment on the lawsuit but asserted that the United Nations remained dedicated to helping Haiti overcome the epidemic.

“The United Nations is working on the ground with the government and people of Haiti both to provide immediate and practical assistance to those affected,” Mr. Haq said in a statement, “and to put in place better infrastructure and services for all.”
220 2013-10-09 The electronic dance music craze will face a referendum of sorts on Wall Street this week.

SFX Entertainment, a young company that has bet its fortunes on the continued popularity of dance festivals like TomorrowWorld and Electric Zoo, priced its initial public offering late Tuesday at $13 a share. The I.P.O., which raised $260 million, values SFX’s business at $1.05 billion, according to a person briefed on the matter.

Demand for the I.P.O. was strong, with the share price at the top of the range the company announced two weeks ago. SFX also sold 20 million shares, instead of the 16.7 million it initially planned.

The company is set to start trading on the Nasdaq stock exchange on Wednesday, under the ticker symbol SFXE.

While electronic dance music, or E.D.M., has operated on the margins of the music world for decades, it has recently become the industry’s fastest-growing genre. One recent study valued the global dance market — including record sales, live performances and corporate sponsorships — at $4.5 billion annually.

SFX Entertainment was founded last year by the media executive Robert F.X. Sillerman, 65, to capitalize on the popularity of E.D.M. It has bought promoters and nightclubs around the country, as well as the online hub Beatport, with an eye to consolidating a national audience for corporate sponsors and media deals.
221 2013-10-09 The experience is in stark contrast to reports of widespread technical problems that have hampered enrollment in the online marketplace run by the federal government....
222 2013-10-09 A Tibet advocacy group and Radio Free Asia said Tuesday that Chinese security forces had fired on a protest in an eastern town in the Tibetan Autonomous Region, wounding at least 60 people, two of them critically. The violence took place on Sunday in Driru County, known as Biru in Chinese. Radio Free Asia said security forces were confronted by a crowd that had gathered to prevent the police from searching the home of Dorje Draktsel, who was detained last week after taking part in protests against orders that Tibetans fly the Chinese flag during the October national holiday period. The Tibet advocacy group, Free Tibet, said thousands of officials had flooded into the area in September to impose a “political re-education” campaign on the locals.
223 2013-10-09 The Agriculture Department issued a public health alert this week, saying that a strain of salmonella may have sickened 278 people who reported becoming ill after they ate poultry produced by Foster Farms.

The Food Safety Inspection Service, which issued the alert on Monday, said it could not link the illnesses to a specific product or an exact production time, but it stated that the raw meats “in question” were being sold in packages bearing the codes P6137, P6137A and P7632, which are the listings for the Foster Farms plants in which the products were processed.

Although the service said people in 18 states had become ill after eating Foster Farms poultry, almost 80 percent of those affected were in California, said Dr. David P. Goldman, assistant administrator of the Office of Public Health Science at the service.

This is not the first time the government has linked Foster Farms poultry to salmonella poisoning. In July, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported tying 134 cases of it dating back to June 2012, including 33 that required hospitalization, to Foster Farms products.

Almost half of the cases in that outbreak were in Washington State, and 40 percent were in Oregon, Dr. Goldman said.
224 2013-10-09 We looked at a lot of distressed opportunities in ’08 and ’09 and into 2010, thinking it would be a long time before we became developers again because of all the distress out there, and that you could just buy things that were unfinished or almost finished. But around 2010 it occurred to us that we were going to be developers much sooner than we thought. The distressed opportunities never materialized for us.

Q. Let’s talk about some of your projects, starting with one in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn.

A. That’s 364 Union Street. It just went on the market. There are five units — four are three-bedroom two-bath, and then there’s one garden duplex that has a private yard.

Q. What are you getting per square foot?

Q. Another new development is 371 Sixth Avenue in Park Slope, Brooklyn.

A. It’s also just coming on the market. It’s a four-family.

Q. And the prices per square foot there?

Q. Can you talk about some of your projects in the pipeline?

A. Another one is in Park Slope. It’s 26 feet wide and on 10th Street, between Fifth and Sixth Avenues. We’re doing four units there, but they’re going to be larger, starting at 1,550 square feet. All of them will be three beds or larger. It’ll be on the market next year.

And then we have an interesting project that we already started construction on — we started construction on both of these, actually — it’s at 415 East Sixth Street in Manhattan and it’s a synagogue. It’s the last remaining tenement synagogue in the East Village and the Landmarks Preservation Commission has approved the project. We’re keeping the synagogue on the ground floor and building three loft apartments above.

Q. Would you consider doing larger projects?

A. Sure. The ones I’ve mentioned so far are the last of our pipeline of smaller ones.

And then we’re doing one on 86th between Broadway and West End. We have three contiguous row houses and so we’re in the process of redeveloping those. We’re in the Landmarks approval process. We anticipate starting construction before the end of the year. They’ll be larger, family-size units — around 10.

Q. Could you do rentals?

A. We’ll be doing larger projects and taking on larger challenges as time moves on, and that’ll definitely include some rentals.

Q. Much of what you’re doing seems geared to middle-class buyers.

A. I would say there’s something aspirational about it, about living in these brownstones. But it’s also really affordable for a lot of families, by New York standards.

By far, the hardest part of our job is creating the product; the easier part is selling it. There’s no question that there’s an extraordinary amount of demand for these brownstones and virtually no competition when we bring them to market.

Q. How do you find properties to develop?

A. We’ve just been vigilant about calling everyone in town who we think could have an opportunity for us. New York is a town where you have to move very, very quickly on every opportunity. We used to be buying the building for $250 to $300 a foot; now we’re buying the land for $250 to $300 a foot.

Having a fund is a big advantage, because the one thing you don’t have to do is raise the money while you’re doing your investigation.

Q. The fund is a main source for financing. Who invests there?

A. A lot of finance people; I can’t give you their names.

We just have one fund — it’s $12 million.

Q. Do you live in a project you developed?

A. No, I live in a Related building on the Upper West Side. We rent a condo from one of the unit owners.

Q. Have you ever owned?

A. I just never got around to buying.
225 2013-10-09 It is bad enough for nuclear operators that the market does not favor new reactor construction, but lately evidence is mounting that it is also undermining the viability of old ones, they say.

Kewaunee, venerable but reliable, shut down in Wisconsin earlier this year, under pressure from cheap natural gas. The latest casualty is Vermont Yankee, a 41-year-old reactor on the Connecticut River just north of the Massachusetts border. It was a victim of declining hour-by-hour prices in New England.

According to Entergy, which bought Vermont Yankee in 2002, the electricity it used to sell for $90 or $100 per megawatt-hour now fetches $40. Power plants have a second source of revenue, called capacity payments, but these are down too. In New England, utilities are required to rent capacity — in other words, pay the plant to be available — in an amount equal to the peak power they bought, and a reserve.

But these capacity payments lately have been very small, because demand has been flat, and some market participants have cut peak demand prices by volunteering — for a price — to cut their peak usage. All this means is that Vermont Yankee cannot meet its costs.

Bill Mohl, the president of wholesale electricity sales at Entergy, said it was a mistake for the market to force decisions about which plants to keep alive or scrap based on the everyday cost of power.

“Their market design is flawed because it doesn’t take a long-term look at the portfolio of assets,” he said. That portfolio should provide long-term grid reliability, and environmental and economic sustainability, he said — all benefits that nuclear power provides.

But nuclear gets no extra money for being carbon-free. It turns out that the cheapest way to achieve reductions in soot, acid rain and smog precursors is shutting down coal plants in favor of natural gas.

And while the idea of nuclear as a hedge against natural gas price increases gained favor with regulators in South Carolina and Georgia, it did not in the New England market — or the markets in New York or the Midwest, where other old reactors are threatened.

Not everybody agrees that the market structure is unfair to nuclear. James J. Hoecker, a former chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which approves the market rules in states that have a competitive electric system, said nuclear was suffering because “this is a market that is looking for more flexibility.” Gas plants are cheaper and faster to build, he pointed out, and can raise and lower their output promptly as conditions require.

“This is what’s happening in the real world,” he said. “It’s not something that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has made any conscious decision to affect.”

And Mr. Ethier of the New England market organization said that one reason for the current market structure was that in the 1970s, when New England utilities wanted to build reactors and the regulatory commissions approved the plans, construction prices spiraled out of control and consumers paid dearly in extra costs. Shifting the risk away from consumers and to investors, as is now the case, was part of the fix, he said.

The nuclear sector is not the only one complaining. FirstEnergy, an Ohio-based utility, announced recently that it would close more than 2,000 megawatts of coal capacity in Pennsylvania, and said part of the problem was the market design.

Energy markets “were physically designed by reliability engineers, intellectually designed by economists, and all disputes are resolved by lawyers,” said Robert E. Curry Jr., a former member of the New York State Public Service Commission. “It’s the worst of all possible worlds.”

The industry has not been explicit about how it wants to address the issue. A recent announcement by the Environmental Protection Agency that it intended to impose carbon dioxide emission limits on existing coal plants could provide an opening; the reductions would be managed by the states, which could set up trading schemes that would give credit for carbon-free generation. Or the regional grid operators could assign some value to fuel diversity. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission recently held a technical meeting to study whether capacity was being valued appropriately.

“Looking at a market in the long run, you want to maintain a diverse portfolio, so you properly mitigate all your risk,” Mr. Mohl of Entergy said. “You don’t want to move to where you’re overly reliant on a single fuel.”

So far, though, that is not a consensus position, and what is likely to replace Vermont Yankee and other aging reactors is power generated by natural gas.
226 2013-10-09 Thermoelectric plants use a fuel source — coal, natural gas, nuclear and, in some cases, solar — to boil water to make steam. The steam spins a turbine connected to a generator to produce electricity. Some form of cooling is required to convert the steam back to a liquid that can be boiled again and sent back to the turbine. Three approaches to cooling power plants are prevalent today, each with drawbacks.

So-called once-through cooling withdraws water from a nearby river or lake, cycles it through the plant for cooling, then dumps most of it back, although warmer than when it came in. While once-through systems withdraw huge volumes of water, most is returned to the source. But drawing water into the plant harms fish and other aquatic life, as does the warm water discharged.

In recirculating systems, the water used for cooling is constantly recycled. Once used, it is sent to nearby cooling towers before returning for another run through the cycle. These systems withdraw less water, but consume more than once-through systems because water is lost to evaporation (the steam plumes you see wafting from the towers). An average 500-megawatt coal-fired plant with a recirculating system can gulp 5,000 gallons a minute to replace the water it consumes.

A third approach, dry cooling, is based on huge air-cooled condensers. These use no water for cooling, so such a system would seem to be a good solution to the problem. But they are costly, three to five times more than wet cooling systems. They are also less efficient, especially on hot days or in areas of high humidity, meaning dry-cooled plants will produce less electricity than those using wet cooling methods.

Only 1 to 2 percent of thermoelectric plants rely just on dry cooling. Hybrid systems combining recirculating wet methods and dry cooling are becoming more common, especially for new plants, said Mike Hightower, leader of the Water for Energy project at the Energy Department’s Sandia National Laboratories. They can “switch between the two depending on the local weather conditions or water availability issues,” Mr. Hightower said.

Newer combined-cycle natural gas plants can reduce water use by 60 to 70 percent, compared with older coal and nuclear counterparts, he said.

Researchers are busy working to make dry cooling techniques more economical, while also looking at alternative water sources like municipal wastewater, said Sean Bushart, who manages the water use innovation program with the Electric Power Research Institute, a nonprofit. Begun in 2011, the program has financed five test projects, including one by Johnson Controls, an energy and automotive products company.

Johnson Controls’ Thermosyphon cooler technology is borrowed from the company’s industrial refrigeration units, like those used in meat and beverage processing plants. It draws heat from the water in the cooling cycle.

“Every degree of heat we can remove from the cooling water means less evaporation in the cooling towers,” said Jim Furlong, vice president in the company’s industrial refrigeration group. Initial results from a test system show water savings of up to 75 percent, he said.

While water-saving technologies are evolving, less certain are regulation or policy decisions that might push power plant operators to adopt them.

“From a policy perspective, it’s a really tricky issue, given that energy and water are regulated at different scales and in different ways,” said John Rogers, a senior energy analyst with the Union of Concerned Scientists. “Even how water is valued and how it figures into our economic math is very different in different parts of the country, which has made it very challenging for getting a handle on this.”

At the federal level, a report last year from the Government Accountability Office noted that energy planning and water planning were generally “stove-piped, with decisions about one resource made without considering impacts to the other.”

Energy analysts like Mr. Rogers of the Union of Concerned Scientists want policy makers to recognize that low carbon does not always mean low water.

For example, carbon capture, which stores carbon emissions from fossil-fueled plants, adds about 20 percent to a plant’s water needs. And some forms of renewable energy, like geothermal and concentrating solar thermal, which focuses sunlight on tubes to heat a fluid, also depend on water for cooling.

What are needed are “policy decisions that link energy and water,” Mr. Rogers said.
227 2013-10-09 That deal, called an Association Agreement, is a first step toward tighter economic relations and in theory eventual membership. In her letter, Ms. Tymoshenko vowed to return and remain active in politics.

With the publication of this letter, “the ball is in his hands now,” Mr. Vlasenko said of Mr. Yanukovich. Mr. Yanukovich has not responded publicly to the European proposal.

How that will be decided is not known, but a pro-government newspaper provided a rather strong hint when it ran a picture of Ms. Tymoshenko under the headline “Guten Tag, Berlin!”

The deal for Ms. Tymoshenko’s freedom is the first sign of a thaw in a fierce political feud between Ukraine’s two most influential politicians.

In addition to the 2011 conviction, the authorities have filed several additional charges against Ms. Tymoshenko, including one of murder in connection with the 1996 assassination of a lawmaker.

She has denied all of the charges and appealed her conviction to the European Court of Human Rights.

Mr. Yanukovich has nursed a grudge against Ms. Tymoshenko for her role in leading the street protests known as the Orange Revolution, which overturned his victory in a rigged election in 2004. In 2010, he narrowly defeated Ms. Tymoshenko in an election observers deemed free.

In her letter from prison addressed to “my dear Ukrainians,” Ms. Tymoshenko, 52, wrote that she viewed integration with Europe as so vital for her country that she had asked the European Union to cross her release off a list of conditions that Ukraine would need to meet before signing, at a summit meeting scheduled in November.

“I didn’t want the European future of my country to suffer for some reason, moreover because of my fate,” she wrote. Ms. Tymoshenko has said she needs surgery to treat back pain. In April she was beaten by guards, a routine event in Ukrainian prisons, her lawyer said.

Because the Europeans did not drop their demand for her release, she wrote in her letter, she would be willing to accept the offer presented by Mr. Cox and Mr. Kwasniewski to leave Ukraine for medical treatment.

European diplomats, acting on the axiom that Russia without Ukraine is just a country while Russia with Ukraine is an empire, have been trying to cut a deal with Ukraine before it agrees to join a Russian-backed customs union.

They want a face-saving deal for Ms. Tymoshenko quickly.
228 2013-10-09 The Met’s recent survey of operas by John Adams will continue next season with the Met’s first performance of his 1991 work, “The Death of Klinghoffer.” And in the 2016-17 season, the Met plans to present Kaija Saariaho’s 2000 opera, “L’Amour de Loin.” That will make Ms. Saariaho the first woman to have her work performed by the company since Ethel Smyth, whose opera “Der Wald” had its Met premiere in 1903.

“For opera to be significant as an art form, it’s absolutely essential that we do present new work, and new work for our audiences,” said Peter Gelb, who initiated the opera commissioning program when he became the Met’s general manager in 2006. He said that “Met audiences are experiencing more modern masterpieces than they have in recent years from living composers, and I think that’s important.”

Not all the composers tapped for the commissioning program — in which each team of composer and librettist is awarded $50,000 — have panned out. Some, like Wynton Marsalis, the managing and artistic director of Jazz at Lincoln Center, and Jake Heggie, the composer of the opera “Dead Man Walking,” decided that they were too busy with other work to continue, the Met said.

The singer-songwriter Rufus Wainwright parted ways with the Met in 2008 after he decided that he wanted his new opera, “Prima Donna,” to be in French, while the Met insisted on English. Mr. Wainwright also said he was impatient with the pace at the Met, which had told him that the opera could not be performed until 2014, at the earliest. (After he left, the piece had its premiere at the Manchester International Festival in 2009, and was given its American premiere by New York City Opera in 2012.)

Several other prominent composers, including Michael John LaChiusa and Scott Wheeler, had workshops of their works, but the Met passed on those.

After Mr. Wheeler’s opera “The Sorrows of Frederick,” with a libretto by Romulus Linney, the playwright, was given a workshop performance last spring, the Met decided that the work’s chamber-opera character made it better suited to a smaller house, while Lincoln Center Theater felt it was too operatic to fit comfortably at the Vivian Beaumont Theater. As André Bishop, Lincoln Center Theater’s artistic director, put it in an interview, “it was too small for the Met and too big for the Beaumont, musically.”

“It’s a lovely piece, and absolutely should be done — based on a very gripping play,” added Mr. Bishop, who said he was recommending it to other opera companies around the country.

Mr. Wheeler, whose opera “Democracy,” also with a libretto by Linney, had its premiere in 2005 at the Washington National Opera, had nothing but praise for his experience with the commissioning program. “It was an amazing opportunity — a great, great thing,” he said in an interview, describing the creative process and the workshop performances. “I have a piece that I am assured has a future.”

It is perhaps surprising that “Two Boys,” the first work to come out of the program, would go to straight to a 3,800-seat opera house like the Met, and not to the 1,150-seat Vivian Beaumont Theater next door. The Royal Opera House in London, which has become a fount of new commissions in recent years, often uses its smaller Linbury Studio Theater for new work. But the needs of the Met and the Beaumont are different: Mr. Bishop noted that for a piece to work at the Beaumont, it would have to use a smaller orchestra than the Met would use, and have the kind of vocal parts that could be performed eight times a week for an extended run. Still, he said he hopes the program will yield work for his theater.

Mr. Muhly’s “Two Boys,” with a libretto by Craig Lucas and directed by Bartlett Sher, had its workshop in 2009, and received its premiere at the English National Opera in 2011. It has been revised further as it prepares for the Met.

Mr. Gelb said that bringing new work to the Met was good for opera, and for the opera house: “It brings a new audience into the theater.”
229 2013-10-09 The stage is strewn with lighting poles, some upright, some toppled. Two clothed men treat an inert, naked man as if he were another stage prop, slowly tipped end over end and carried. They stick him horizontally against the back wall, pressing him high above their heads. The man seems to thaw, to develop a will, as he is dragged around.

These arresting images come at the start of “Endangered Pieces,” a new dance-theater work directed by Pavel Zustiak at Henry Street Settlement’s Abrons Arts Center. Like many productions of Mr. Zustiak’s company, Palissimo, this one boasts compelling performers: Mr. Zustiak, Jaro Vinarsky and Matthew Rogers. The integration between the action, the imaginatively harsh lighting (by Joe Levasseur) and the ominous soundscape (by Christian Frederickson and Bobby McElver) is exceptionally tight. The proscenium stage, from the front curtain to the rear loading door, is used thoughtfully.

But why are they doing this? What does it mean? Those kinds of questions enter a viewer’s mind, and during solos by Mr. Vinarsky and Mr. Rogers, recorded voices actually utter them: “Why does he sit like that?” “Does he even understand what he’s doing?” The tactic is clever, yet it draws unfortunate attention to the inconsistent caliber of the choreography, now striking, now dull. (No one receives credit for it.)

“Endangered Pieces” is vaguely post-apocalyptic, post-traumatic — a description that also applies to Mr. Zustiak’s recent “Painted Bird” trilogy. The voice-over speaks, somewhat tongue-in-cheek, of “the last man.” Later the three men hang naked from the poles in a haunting Golgotha-like scene. Walking away, they are bleakly eloquent with their knobby elbows, shoulders and hips. Mr. Vinarsky, the naked man at the beginning, now slams himself against the wall.

But the piece is weakly episodic, and many of its representations of disaster and the aftermath — the clattering collapse of wooden boards, the purposely imperfect attempts by the performers to balance the boards or stuff them in their clothing — are uncomfortably similar to Sasha Waltz’s 2005 work “Gezeiten.”

During Mr. Zustiak’s solo, the voices are silent, or heard only in the viewer’s mind. The voice in mine wondered why, in this and previous works, he has developed such a fetish for dressing and undressing. What does it mean to him? The questions in the voice-over keep picking at the work itself: “Is this what he stands for?” “Is he here to say something?”
230 2013-10-09 Ms. Lower’s revisionist insight is to track more mundane lives, and to argue for a vastly wider complicity. She follows more than a dozen German women — nurses, secretaries, schoolteachers, wives of SS officers — who stand in for an estimated 500,000 German women who went into the occupied East and thus undeniably stood, the author argues, in the killing fields.

“The role of German women in Hitler’s war can no longer be understood as their mobilization and victimization on the home front,” Ms. Lower says. “Instead, Hitler’s Germany produced another kind of female character at war, an expression of female activism and patriotism of the most violent and perverse kind.”

Or, as she puts it more memorably, about SS wives who became perpetrators: “These women displayed a capacity to kill while also acting out a combination of roles: plantation mistress; prairie Madonna in apron-covered dress lording over slave laborers; infant-carrying, gun-wielding hausfrau.”

Ms. Lower is a history professor at Claremont McKenna College, a consultant for the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum and the author or co-author of several previous books about Nazi activities in places like Ukraine. “Hitler’s Furies” has been placed on the long list for this year’s National Book Award in nonfiction.

Some of the women she follows were aides to so-called desk murderers, eagerly assisting their bosses. Others took part in the humiliation of Jews, or plundered their goods. Still others shot them from balconies or in forests. One smashed in a Jewish toddler’s head. Even those who did not directly take part in the killing of Jews, she says, could not claim ignorance about was going on. They were passive bystanders.

Fewer expressed qualms about what they saw. One who did, a relief worker and lawyer named Annette Schücking, wrote home: “What Papa says is true; people with no moral inhibitions exude a strange odor. I can now pick out these people, and many of them really do smell like blood.” Despite what they had seen, the author writes, they asked, “What can one do, after all?”

The moral point Ms. Lower repeatedly makes is that “there were choices concerning how one behaved during and after the war.” Men and women weren’t punished for refusing to take part in the killings of Jews. “In favoring perceived duty over morality,” she writes, “men and women were more alike than different.”

“Hitler’s Furies” is often difficult reading. Ms. Lower’s portrayal of the links between sex and violence — these young people were, to no small degree, showing off for one another — lingers over some especially gruesome moments. “Genocide,” she reports, “is also women’s business.”

I frequently wished that “Hitler’s Furies” were a stronger, more authoritative book. Ms. Lower declares that the contemplation of women’s diverse roles in the Third Reich is a “historical blind spot.” Yet this subject is hardly altogether new.

Ms. Lower omits mediation between earlier texts. She rarely relates, except in endnotes, what previous historians have had to say about women in the Third Reich. Too often, her facts and research appear to exist in a vacuum. I longed for context and synthesis.

The prose in “Hitler’s Furies” frequently has a glue-paste textbook smell. There are clichés and repetitions. She chops up these women’s stories in such a way that she has to reintroduce them to us constantly.

There are many generalities here, and less specific detail about these women’s lives than you might like. You don’t feel you have a grainy or intimate sense of any of them. In part, this is not Ms. Lower’s fault. After the war, these women did not like to speak of their experiences, so the record is not as full as it could be.

The last chapters of “Hitler’s Furies” are infuriating and sickening for different reasons. Ms. Lower explores these women’s experiences after the war. Most simply slipped back into civilian life. Few of these hundreds of thousands of German women were prosecuted, and even fewer were punished.

“What happened to them?” Ms. Lower asks. “The short answer is that most got away with murder.”
231 2013-10-09 Michel Richard’s new venture at the New York Palace, with two dining rooms and a bar, will be set in three beautiful landmark rooms. One dining room overlooks Madison Avenue and has a glass wine cellar in the center. It will offer the same à la carte bistro menu as the bar. If there’s a signature dish, it’s the lobster pasta. Behind the bar is a montage of photos of Mr. Richard, dozens of them, along with some of Henry Villard. (It makes Mr. Richard chuckle.) The other dining room is called the Gallery. Its Renaissance-style wood paneling is decorated with oversize photos of movie stars, including Catherine Deneuve. It will open in a few weeks with a couple of prix fixe menus. (Opens Thursday): 455 Madison Avenue (50th Street), (212) 891-8100, villardmichelrichard.com.

CUCINA CIANO Stratis Morfogen, the owner of Ciano on East 22nd Street, which closed in April, has moved it uptown. With Shea Gallante no longer involved as chef, it has gone more red sauce. “I’m going back to Italian-American,” Mr. Morfogen said. The chef, Tin Huynh, who was the sous-chef, is a meatball master. There will be baked clams and lobster fra diavolo with a four-pound lobster. The chicken in a clay pot for which Ciano was known, and the policy of selling a number of wines in half-bottles, will continue. (Monday): 181 East 78th Street, (646) 422-7550, cucinaciano.com.

RED FARM Ed Schoenfeld and Joe Ng are opening the long-anticipated uptown edition of their innovative West Village Chinese restaurant. It’s larger and more polished than the original, with the same red-checkered cushions and a long communal table in the center. There are some colorful new dumplings. (Wednesday): 2170 Broadway (77th Street), (212) 724-9700, redfarmnyc.com.

TAO DOWNTOWN Tao on East 58th Street is big, but the new place is even bigger: more than 22,000 square feet designed by David Rockwell, with seats for 400. There is a koi pond, a free-form sushi bar with the chefs in the middle, and two 16-foot Buddhas. The menu features pan-Asian dishes like grilled shrimp, Shanghai fried rice in a crepe and roasted chicken chow mein. The kitchen has a tank for live seafood. (Thursday): 92 Ninth Avenue (16th Street), (212) 888-2724, taodowntown.com.

T BAR SOHO Tony Fortuna is opening a branch of his Third Avenue hangout in the heart of SoHo. The new room has a downtown feel, though most of the menu, with its seared tuna, Amish turkey burger and Caesar salad, will be familiar to regulars who venture south. (Thursday): 331 West Broadway (Grand Street), (212) 775-0404, tbarsoho.com.
232 2013-10-09 The target of the raid was Abdikadir Mohamed Abdikadir, who uses the nom de guerre Ikrimah and is suspected of helping orchestrate a series of grenade attacks and shootings that have killed Kenyan civilians and security personnel.

According to a Kenyan intelligence report, he has been connected to plots against Kenya’s Parliament, the United Nations office in Nairobi, Kenyan military installations, an Ethiopian restaurant in the Kenyan capital and an airport, none of which materialized.

But perhaps most important, he is seen as a pivotal connection for an array of extremists across vast distances, from Tanzania to Yemen — a veteran militant with intimate knowledge of the ties among Kenyan terrorists, the Shabab and Al Qaeda.

Planning for the raid to capture him began weeks ago, American officials said, but after the deadly siege on the Westgate mall in Nairobi last month the operation took on special urgency. By snatching such an international planner, American officials appeared intent on uncovering the next Westgate before it happened, particularly before a similar attack could take place on an American company or embassy in the region, or perhaps even in the mainland United States.

The Navy SEALs approached the coast under cover of darkness on Saturday, killing several Shabab militants and escaping without any casualties of their own. But they retreated empty-handed, failing to seize Mr. Abdikadir or the potential trove of intelligence he may possess.

The intelligence flaws were partly to blame, American officials said. As a group of about 20 commandos entered the Shabab compound, they encountered far more civilians than they had anticipated, including women and children, American officials briefed on the operation said.

When the gun battle with Shabab fighters erupted, not only was the element of surprise lost, but the mission commander also feared that a prolonged firefight could kill large numbers of civilians.

“The variables were increasing, not decreasing,” said one of the officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss details of the operation.

In a statement, the Pentagon spokesman George Little said, “While the operation did not result in Ikrima’s capture, U.S. military personnel conducted the operation with unparalleled precision and demonstrated that the United States can put direct pressure on Al Shabab leadership at any time of our choosing.”

But there is also the question of whether, by engaging the group so aggressively, the United States may have made itself more of a target. The Shabab have claimed responsibility for deadly strikes in Uganda and Kenya, two nations that have sent troops to fight it in recent years, and the group has killed scores of civilians in what it has called reprisals for military incursions into Somalia.

The United States has fought the Shabab directly as well, conducting missile and air attacks against Somali militants. But the American attacks have been sporadic, and the raid in Baraawe was the most significant operation by American troops in Somalia since commandos killed Saleh Ali Saleh Nabhan, a Qaeda operative, in a raid near the town four years ago.

The Shabab were supposed to be on the run. The Somali militant group had lost ground and manpower. But the raid served as an object lesson in the group’s tenacity and adaptability. Nor was it the first such attack repulsed by the Shabab. A hostage-rescue mission by French special forces in January failed, leading to the deaths of two French soldiers and the hostage, a French intelligence officer.

Future clashes seemed likely. On Tuesday, the Somali government pledged to “liberate” Baraawe and other areas the Shabab still control.

“Baraawe is the heart of the area controlled by Shabab, and it is the only remaining port they have where foreign fighters can get into Somalia by sea,” said a United Nations official with responsibility for tracking events in Somalia.

The target of the raid, Mr. Abdikadir, is seen as being central to the regional threat presented by the Shabab. “He has been very significant in facilitating networks, leading outside of Somalia especially in the wider East African region,” said Cedric Barnes, Horn of Africa director for the International Crisis Group. “He’s been around for a long time.”

While the United States managed to seize another high-profile target on Saturday in Libya — capturing Nazih Abdul-Hamed al-Ruqai, known as Abu Anas al-Libi, a suspect in the 1998 bombings of the United States Embassies in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, which killed 224 people — some analysts described Mr. Abdikadir as the more relevant of the two.

“In many respects, he was the more valuable of the two targets this past weekend,” said J. Peter Pham, director of the Africa Center at the Atlantic Council in Washington. Mr. Abdikadir’s knowledge is “more current,” he said, with contacts that stretched to Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula.

“That’s why they didn’t wait for him to take a road trip and drop a Hellfire on him,” Mr. Pham said. “He taps into the different groups, moves people around, uses them for channels of resources or recruits.”

While Mr. Abdikadir’s involvement in the Westgate attack — if any — is unknown, “he had the safe houses, the networks to set it up,” Mr. Pham said. He was “someone capable of executing,” Mr. Pham said.

The United Nations official said that Mr. Abdikadir was also thought to have helped plan the deadly storming of the United Nations compound in Mogadishu in June, which some analysts have compared to the Westgate attack in its tactics.

Mr. Abdikadir is believed to have been a protégé of Qaeda operatives in East Africa, including Fazul Abdullah Mohammed and Mr. Nabhan, both of whom have been killed. According to Mr. Pham, Mr. Abdikadir first moved to Somalia around 2006, where he commanded fighters from Kenya, including ethnic Kenyans and members of the Somali diaspora who had returned to fight.

In recent years, the American strategy for fighting the Shabab has been largely to contain and outsource, supporting troops from Kenya, Ethiopia, Uganda and elsewhere in the direct military operation against the group. That strategy was called into question after militants stormed the Westgate shopping mall, killing more than 60 people and reminding the world that East Africa is home to a significant cross-border terrorist threat. The Shabab claimed responsibility for the siege.

The raid on Saturday raised the question of whether the American military focus would now intensify. “If this is followed up with more military and covert actions against Shabab, it may signal a real shift in strategy,” said Ken Menkhaus, a professor of political science at Davidson College.
233 2013-10-09 Although last year’s preliminary discussions could end up having little influence on any final trade pact, the documents offered some hints at the ripest targets for business executives — as well as insights into the officials’ responses. The auto industry was seen as being “first and foremost” among industrial sectors where a melding of regulations from Brussels and Washington made sense, according to an assessment last December by the European trade commission. And the issue of duplicative trans-Atlantic testing procedures was seen as particularly relevant for the pharmaceutical industry.

Among the proposals made last October by business groups that are still on the table is a regulatory oversight group that would have the authority to continue to ensure that any new or existing trans-Atlantic rules are compatible, even after trade negotiations formally conclude. Businesses and other stakeholders would be able to propose regulatory changes to the council.

Peter Chase, a representative of the United States Chamber of Commerce in Brussels, said his group felt that “in order to turbocharge” existing regulatory cooperation, the trans-Atlantic trade agreement “needed to establish a goal toward which regulators should strive, of making our regulatory regimes more compatible, it should give them the tools to achieve that goal and should create an institutional framework to guide and encourage that cooperation.”

The oversight group has the backing of at least some European officials. “We should establish a regulatory cooperation council, which would include very high-level representatives of the regulatory agencies on both sides,” an official with direct knowledge of the negotiations, who was not authorized to speak on the record, said in an interview this week. The council, the official said, “would be responsible to guide and monitor the implementation of the regulatory commitments and to tackle new regulatory challenges in the future.”

While a regulatory cooperation group already exists, giving such a body teeth could reshape the regulatory ties between Europe and America for years to come.

“This was an idea that was mentioned more than a year ago and it continues to be discussed,” the official said, adding that it would be impossible to solve all of the regulatory challenges in a single trade agreement. “We need to create a mechanism to further this into the future,” the office said.

The documents included a 12-page assessment by the European trade commission drafted last December, examining joint proposals made by two major trade groups — the United States Chamber of Commerce and BusinessEurope — about how to structure the free trade agreement.

The documents also included a summary of a meeting between the trade groups and representatives from the commission’s trade and industrial agencies, as well as the office of the secretary general, to discuss the industry proposals. Commissions officials said this week that the representatives who attended the meeting were not high-level officials.

Ms. Eberhardtat said the Corporate Europe Observatory called the release of the documents “incredible.”

“I would say it shows two things — first, the enormous privileged access DG Trade grants big business lobby groups to set the agenda for the negotiations,” she said, referring to the name of the European Commission trade ministry. The second revelation in the documents, she said, is how the business community wants to use the trade talks “to change the way legislation is being done.”

“And it is quite striking,” Ms. Eberhart added, “to see how much energy the commission puts into dealing with these proposals and how seriously they take them, and how they are taken as a guide.”

In the assessment, European trade officials also approved of the trade group’s idea of requiring regulators on both sides of the Atlantic to consult with each other when they develop any significant new regulations on either side, in an effort to forestall future regulatory divergence.

But they did not universally embrace all of the business proposals. Officials were cool to the idea of industry and other stakeholders becoming involved in the process of writing regulations from the beginning, saying in their assessment that “we will need additional explanations why the existing systems do not suffice.” And there was a “strong backlash” from the office of the European secretary general to the idea when the sides met in person last November.

Some of the proposals, the assessment said, could “easily be mistaken for a (provocative) ‘deregulation’ agenda.”

Mr. Chase of the Chamber of Commerce said he was pleased by the trade commission’s assessment.

“It means that the European officials were giving the paper that we had submitted the serious consideration that I think it actually deserved,” he said. “And in reading their comments, I’m struck by how positive their overall assessment is — I should say struck and gratified — and I think that it reflects again that a lot of thought went into this on both sides of the Atlantic.”
234 2013-10-09 In another blow to Samsung Electronics in its continuing patent disputes with Apple, the Obama administration has decided to uphold a ban requested by Apple of some of Samsung’s mobile products.

Michael Froman, the United States trade representative, said in a statement that he decided to allow the ban to proceed after “weighing policy considerations, including the impact on consumers and competition, advice from agencies and information from interested parties.”

The ban, which was ordered by the International Trade Commission, was issued in August after the agency determined that Samsung had violated two Apple patents. The Obama administration could have vetoed the ruling, as it did in August with a ban ordered on Apple’s products.

Mr. Froman said the ban would cover Samsung’s older smartphones and tablets. The decision, he said, would have little effect on the availability of Samsung products, because Samsung has been able to make changes to its newer products so that they avoid infringing on Apple’s patents.

In its case with the trade commission, Apple accused Samsung of violating four patents, including a design patent for the general look of an iPhone — a rectangle with rounded corners — and a utility patent for detecting when headphones are plugged into a device.

After a review, the commission said Samsung had violated the patent regarding headphone detection and another patent covering the mechanics for touch-screen technology.

In a statement, Samsung said that it was “disappointed” by the decision. “It will serve only to reduce competition and limit choice for the American consumer,” the company said.
235 2013-10-09 “With the uncertainty surrounding Washington dominating trading, today was the day the momentum names finally were hit hard,” said Ryan Detrick, senior technical strategist at Schaeffer’s Investment Research in Cincinnati, Ohio.

“Could we finally see a move to the safer blue chips? If the Washington drama continues, that could be the play.”

President Barack Obama said a U.S. debt default could wreak havoc and he would talk to congressional Republicans about any topic but urged them to raise the debt limit without conditions.

The possibility the government could default on its debt raised fears of potential global economic catastrophe, with foreign creditors and the International Monetary Fund’s chief economist warning of the potential consequences.

“I think what could be said is if there was a problem lifting the debt ceiling, it could well be that what is now a recovery would turn into a recession or even worse,” IMF chief economist Olivier Blanchard said. He added, however, such an event did not appear likely.

The CBOE Volatility Index, a measure of investor anxiety, ticked above 20 for the first time since June 24 as investors are now willing to pay more for protection against a sudden drop on the S&P 500.

The VIX, up 22 percent in the past two days, shot up 27 percent in the last week of 2012 partly on the political stalemate surrounding the ‘fiscal cliff’ negotiations, before falling 39 percent the first week of this year after a deal was reached in Washington.

By the end of trading, McKesson rose 3.2 percent to $133.72 after Dow Jones Newswires reported the company was in advanced talks to take over Celesio in a possible $5.1 billion deal.

Xerox shares fell 2.5 percent to $10.14 after it said the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission was investigating some accounting practices at Affiliated Computer Services , an IT outsourcing firm it bought in 2010.

J.C. Penney closed 0.78 percent higher to $7.77 after the struggling retailer reported a smaller decline in same-store sales for September compared with August and said it was seeing positive signs in many areas of its business.
236 2013-10-10 The S.E.C. says that Rodrigo and Michel Terpins of Brazil acted on inside information about the H.J. Heinz takeover to turn $90,000 into $1.8 million....
237 2013-10-10 Shortly after Mr. Gergiev walked onto the stage at Carnegie Hall, several members of Queer Nation began protests....
238 2013-10-10 Stock prices surged as signs of a compromise emerged in Washington, but the air quickly went out of Wall Street’s balloon after it remained clear that a deal was not yet at hand....
239 2013-10-10 If there were a Canadian Mount Rushmore, it wouldn’t memorialize four politicians. They would be Munro, Atwood, Ondaatje and . . ....
240 2013-10-10 In a lawsuit, a former Federal Reserve Bank of New York worker raises questions about the success of Goldman Sachs in policing potential conflicts....
241 2013-10-10 The offering was oversubscribed seven times, with several brokerage offices staying open until the deadline for investors to register to buy the stock....
242 2013-10-10 Parts of the country are getting “hammered.” Tracking employees. Will Janet Yellen be good for start-ups?...
243 2013-10-10 Sanford I. Weill, who built Citigroup into a behemoth through a series of deals, has invested in Level, a start-up in San Francisco that aims to make it easier for young people to manage their finances....
244 2013-10-10 Protests from the industry aside, the data clearly show that the biggest banks receive a subsidy from the government as a result of its too-big-to-fail approach, an economist writes....
245 2013-10-10 TEXANS STICKING WITH SCHAUB Houston Coach Gary Kubiak said quarterback Matt Schaub would start Sunday against St. Louis but added that staying with Schaub was a “tough decision.” Kubiak also said tight end Owen Daniels had a broken leg and was out indefinitely.

FREEMAN PRACTICES Josh Freeman practiced for the first time with Minnesota, three days after he was signed. Coach Leslie Frazier has already said Freeman, released last week by Tampa Bay, will not start at quarterback this weekend against Carolina, but the Vikings are planning to get Freeman some game action as soon as he is ready.

49ERS’ SMITH CHARGED San Francisco linebacker Aldon Smith was charged with three felony counts of illegal possession of an assault weapon stemming from a party at his home in June 2012.

The district attorney’s office of Santa Clara County, Calif., said Smith was expected to surrender on his own later this month. Smith, who was arrested Sept. 20 on suspicion of driving under the influence, is on an indefinite leave of absence from the 49ers as he receives treatment for substance abuse.

If convicted, Smith could face up to four years and four months in jail, the district attorney’s office said.

BROWNS’ SANDUSKY ARRESTED The Cleveland Browns executive Jon Sandusky, the son of the former Penn State assistant Jerry Sandusky, was cooperative but refused to take a blood test when he was arrested on suspicion of drunken driving in North Dakota, the Fargo police said.

Lt. Joel Vettel said Sandusky, 36, the director of player personnel for the Browns, was pulled over for making an illegal turn at 1:50 a.m. Tuesday near downtown Fargo. Sandusky is out on bail.

JETS LOSE PASS RUSHER The Jets lost one of their top pass rushers for the season when outside linebacker Antwan Barnes was placed on injured reserve with a knee injury. Barnes, a free-agent pickup from San Diego, had two sacks and generated consistent pressure.

“It wasn’t just the production that he had,” Coach Rex Ryan said, “but the production he caused.”

Linebacker Ricky Sapp, released on Saturday, was re-signed and replaced Barnes on the active roster. BEN SHPIGEL

AROUND THE LEAGUE Denver cornerback Champ Bailey was a full participant at practice for the first time since he injured his left foot in a preseason game at Seattle on Aug. 17. ... Green Bay Coach Mike McCarthy said linebacker Clay Matthews would miss at least a couple of weeks with a thumb injury. ... The Kansas City rookie tight end Travis Kelce had arthroscopic surgery on his left knee and could miss the remainder of the season. (AP)
246 2013-10-10 They also say he has used the country’s oil wealth to raise living standards, including a glittering revival of Baku, which is now dotted with luxury homes built from elegant stone, skyscrapers and an array of new cultural sites.

“I voted for my president,” said a 65-year-old retired doctor leaving a polling station in a Russian-speaking section of downtown Baku. Like many Azerbaijanis, she did not want to give her name when discussing politics, even though she backed Mr. Aliyev. “He is young, energetic; he speaks Russian and English. Those parameters fit my requirements. I do not know other candidates and did not even try to know about them.”

“Look at this city,” she added. “It is beautiful because of him and his wife.”

Critics, however, say Mr. Aliyev is a heavy-handed autocrat in a country that has a poor record on human rights. In February, two political opposition leaders were arrested on charges of inciting riots in the city of Ismayilli, northwest of Baku. Lawyers for the men said the arrests were politically motivated and that their clients were merely visiting the city when protests broke out.

Outside the same polling station in downtown Baku, a 69-year-old retired lawyer said that the fear of political reprisal by the Aliyev government was genuine. “I voted for Jamil Hasanli because his campaign established some trust,” he said. “Ilham Aliyev is fine, but he does not care to gather smart people around him. He ignores corrupted officials.”

After securing the referendum in 2009 that lifted term limits, Mr. Aliyev portrayed his re-election as a foregone conclusion. He did virtually no campaigning and did not participate in debates, sending representatives in his place. In the debates, the 10 candidates each received six minutes, even as Mr. Aliyev dominated the state-controlled news media.

Many voters said they viewed Mr. Aliyev as the only choice. In a poverty-stricken neighborhood in the Yasamal district of Baku, several people displaced from the Nagorno-Karabakh region, which Azerbaijan and Armenia have been at war over for more than 20 years, said they supported Mr. Aliyev.

“Even if Ilham Aliyev’s presidency did not affect the welfare of my family, it did help the nation,” said Vusala Ahmedova, 33, who lives in a room with her husband and three children. “I would like him to get our lands back so that we can move to our land that I left when I was 11.”

With more than 74 percent of precincts counted, the Central Election Commission said Mr. Aliyev had received nearly 85 percent of the vote, and Mr. Hasanli 5.2 percent. Shortly afterward, Mr. Aliyev thanked voters for their trust in a recorded statement on state television.

“I would like to assure the Azeri people that, in the future as well, I will serve them worthily and will always protect the state interests of Azerbaijan,” he said. Mr. Aliyev also praised the election as “free and transparent,” calling it “another serious step toward democracy.”

Even before results were announced, a victory celebration erupted outside the headquarters of Mr. Aliyev’s New Azerbaijan Party. Streets were closed as jubilant supporters danced and waved flags.

Nonetheless, the Hasanli campaign issued a statement accusing the government of widespread election fraud, including accusations of ballot-box stuffing and interfering with election monitors.

Initial reports from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the European Parliament suggested that they would declare the election as failing to meet international standards. The groups scheduled a news conference for Thursday.
247 2013-10-10 To much of the world, the attack on the mall, in which Islamist radicals killed more than 60 men, women and children, underscored the growing international threat of the Shabab, a group that once seemed more focused on imposing Islamic law in Somalia than with staging major attacks across international boundaries.

But the siege has also illustrated the growing radicalism of Kenya’s own neglected, disaffected Muslim population. At least one member of the small group of attackers at the Westgate mall was Kenyan, according to Kenyan officials, and several witnesses have described hearing the combatants speaking Swahili, one of Kenya’s national languages, sometimes flawlessly.

Kenya’s slums have long provided a fertile recruiting ground for Muslim extremists, but analysts say that the Shabab have been finding recruits from across the country, not just in traditionally Muslim areas like Mombasa or Somali enclaves and refugee camps. The heavy-handed response by the Kenyan police seems to have driven more young men to embrace radicalism.

Deadly riots broke out last week in the coastal city of Mombasa after a popular Muslim cleric was shot dead in what many believe was an attack by security services.

“A day after the killings,” said Abubaker Shariff Ahmed, a fundamentalist cleric in Mombasa, “a group of boys came to me and they said, ‘Sheik, find us a way to communicate with Al Shabab. We want to help, but we don’t have weapons.’ ”

Mr. Ahmed, a middle-aged man in a white cap and hennaed goatee, was one of three Kenyan supporters of the Shabab listed by the United States Treasury Department last year, accused of acting as a “recruiter and facilitator” for the group. In an interview on a rooftop here, Mr. Ahmed denied the charges, saying that when youth from the area ask him for help joining the Shabab he tells them not to go.

But were it not for the bail money that friends posted because of pending charges against him, Mr. Ahmed said, he would be in Somalia for jihad “tomorrow.”

Until recently, the Shabab’s Kenyan affiliate, Al Hijra, was “a group that appeared to be fumbling and amateurish, operationally,” said Matt Bryden, a former head of the United Nations Monitoring Group on Somalia and Eritrea. But “a core of committed fighters has emerged and they have been learning.”

Fighters who have trained in Somalia are filtering back into Kenya, he said, bringing new discipline, dedication and expertise.

“There have also been indications that over the last six months or so they’ve been scaling down grenade throwing and small stuff, partly to get some relief from law enforcement, but also because they realized this wasn’t getting them anywhere,” said Mr. Bryden, now a director at the Sahan Research and Development Organization, an independent group based in Nairobi. “They decided to aim for something that would do more damage and be more spectacular.”

A Kenyan intelligence report last year said that a Kenyan explosives expert had trained 20 Kenyan militants in Somalia, including in Baraawe, the port town where Navy SEALs staged an unsuccessful raid on Saturday to capture Abdikadir Mohamed Abdikadir, a Kenyan citizen who uses the nom de guerre Ikrimah and is accused of plotting attacks in both Kenya and Somalia.

The Kenyan militants are increasingly sophisticated and dangerous, with safe houses and weapons stores at their disposal, according to the intelligence report. Aware that they are being watched, the report said, militants here have cut down on mobile-phone contact and begun using unsent draft e-mails in accounts for which they share passwords to communicate without detection.

“Al Shabab has started investing more in building out its own network in Kenya,” said Katherine Zimmerman, senior analyst at the Critical Threats Project of the American Enterprise Institute. “There is an Al Shabab network that extends down through Kenya and into Tanzania.”

Abdi Aynte, executive director of the Heritage Institute for Policy Studies in Mogadishu, Somalia, said that with porous borders and corrupt police officers, it was relatively easy to cross into Kenya with a bribe at the border.

“There is no inhibiting force at all to prevent you from going into Somalia or from Somalia into Kenya,” he said.

Other Shabab recruits have come from as far as Britain, Burundi, Chad, Uganda and the United States, potentially expanding the group’s ability to take advantage of local passports, accents and communities to operate. Many analysts said that it would be difficult for the Shabab, which claimed responsibility for the Westgate attack, to plan and execute a complex attack like the one at the mall without the assistance or participation of local networks.

Abdul Haji, a Kenyan businessman who rushed to the Westgate mall to try to rescue his brother, said he found himself locking eyes with one of the assailants, less than 100 feet away. He said the man did not look Somali and spoke to him in flawless, native Swahili, saying, “Kuja, kuja,” or “Come, come,” gesturing for him.

The government’s tensions with segments of Kenya’s Muslim population has been building for years. When Kenya’s one-party system ended in the early 1990s, the government refused to register the Islamic Party of Kenya. After the arrest of several Muslim religious leaders, riots broke out and top party members were arrested.

The police focus on Kenyan Muslims intensified after the bombing of the American Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998, and it deepened after a deadly attack on Israeli tourists at a hotel in Mombasa in 2002.

Last year, the killing of an influential cleric, Sheik Aboud Rogo Mohammed, who had been accused by the United States of drumming up money and fighters for the Shabab, led to days of riots. Many Muslims accused the police of being behind the killing.

Just last week, another fundamentalist cleric, Sheik Ibrahim Ismail, was shot and killed along with three of his followers in similar circumstances.

“We knew they were going to kill him one day,” Mr. Ahmed said. “I am going to be killed one day.”
248 2013-10-10 Washington’s traditionally cautious and pragmatic business lobby could slip into open warfare with the Tea Party faction of the Republican Party amid frustration over the crisis....
249 2013-10-10 “It leaves the commodities market in a bit of a fog,” said Christopher Narayan, an analyst with the bank Société Générale in New York, who said investors would face difficulties in obtaining accurate information.

At the Food and Drug Administration, which is responsible for inspecting the bulk of food that Americans eat, the agency has gone from a goal of inspecting about 200 plants per week to none and has reduced inspections of imported food. At the Agriculture Department, a meat and poultry hot line that consumers can call for information about food safety or to report problems is closed. At the C.D.C., about 68 percent of staff members were furloughed, including several epidemiologists and dozens of other workers who oversee a database that tracks food-borne illness.

These staff members identify clusters of sickness linked to potentially dangerous strains of bacteria like E. coli and salmonella, and their absences have significantly reduced the center’s ability to respond to an outbreak.

Even though the agency has brought back about 30 furloughed workers to handle the salmonella outbreak, which has been linked to raw chicken, the C.D.C. remains short-handed, said Barbara Reynolds, a center spokeswoman. “We’re still down to a skeleton crew,” she said.

Others worry that the agency is not getting its message out.

“When you have an outbreak and health alert like this, you have to get this information into the hands of consumers,” said Caroline Smith DeWaal, food safety director at the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a Washington research group. “The C.D.C. may have brought back some staffers, but their communications staff is working at reduced capacity and that’s a concern. The agency’s ability to get information out is limited.”

The Agriculture Department, which traced the salmonella outbreak to a poultry producer in California, has been spared the brunt of the sequestration cuts and the government shutdown. Since Upton Sinclair’s classic 1906 novel “The Jungle” exposed unsanitary conditions at meatpacking plants, federal law has required inspectors at meat and poultry processing plants.

“We’re up and running,” said David Goldman, assistant administrator with the Agriculture Department’s Food Safety and Inspection Service, which inspects meat and poultry plants. “Our inspectors, labs and field investigators are still on the job.”

At the F.D.A., about 45 percent of the agency’s staff members are furloughed. “F.D.A. is doing what it can under this difficult situation to protect public health,” said Steven Immergut, the agency’s assistant commissioner for media affairs.

Food safety advocates say that even without the government shutdown and budget cuts, the agency is limited in what it can do. Under normal circumstances, it inspects less than 2 percent of most imported food. (Imported meat and poultry are inspected by the Agriculture Department.)

The F.D.A. will not say what percentage of imported food is now inspected, only that it is less than 2 percent. The agency continues to deploy staff members at the nation’s ports to inspect some of the millions of pounds of food that come in each day from abroad, officials said.

About 20 percent of the food Americans eat is imported, including 85 percent of seafood and a significant amount of produce. But officials said the inspections consisted mainly of routine paperwork checks. The agency will conduct physical inspection of food and take samples but will be limited because of staff reductions, the agency said.

The F.D.A. does have contracts with states to continue some inspections because those inspections were paid for with money from the previous fiscal year, officials say. But nearly 9,000 inspections that were to be done by the states for the current fiscal year have been put on hold because of a lack of money.

A new food safety law, passed in 2011, that was supposed to give the F.D.A. greater enforcement powers had already been delayed because of the across-the-board budget cuts known as sequestration. It will now be further delayed because of the shutdown.

“This puts a strain on an already strained system and raises serious concern about the safety of the food we eat,” said Tony Corbo, a lobbyist for Food and Water Watch, a food safety advocacy group in Washington.
250 2013-10-10 “The reality of intelligence work in practice is that we only focus the most intense intrusive attention on a small number of cases at any one time,” he said.

Intelligence intercepts are crucial tools in national defense, Mr. Parker said. “Reporting from GCHQ is vital to the safety of this country and its citizens,” he said.

MI5, known formally as the British Security Service and responsible for domestic security and counterintelligence, expects one or two major attempts at terrorism in Britain every year, Mr. Parker said. Citing the recent killings at a mall in Nairobi, Kenya, and the civil war in Syria, he said terrorism had become more diffuse and less predictable, with more sophisticated use of encryption technology. “Threats are diversifying, but not diminishing,” he said.

It was Mr. Parker’s first public speech since becoming director general. He has spent three decades working for MI5 and was director of its counterterrorism division at the time of the London bombings in July 2005, becoming deputy director general in 2007.

Alan Rusbridger, the editor of the newspaper The Guardian, which has published many of the Snowden revelations, said Mr. Parker had said “what you’d expect him to say” as an intelligence professional.

“But MI5 can’t be the only voice in this debate,” Mr. Rusbridger told the BBC, contrasting the more open discussion in the United States with the less robust one here.

The intelligence services “will say that’s the haystack, they need that and they will look for needles in extremely controlled circumstances,” Mr. Rusbridger said. “The question is: Who gets the oversight of that? There has to be a wider debate.”

Mr. Parker called Al Qaeda and its affiliates in Pakistan and Yemen “the more direct and immediate threats” to Britain. The Yemeni group, Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, has succeeded in smuggling explosives onto airplanes three times in the past four years, though its efforts have been foiled by faulty technology or by intelligence provided by human espionage.

He said the conflict in Syria was producing new threats, with extremist Islamist groups aspiring to attack Western targets. The intelligence agencies are working to monitor British and Western citizens who have traveled to Syria to fight and then returned home. A number of those returning have been stopped at the border and some have been arrested, he said, without elaborating.

Mr. Parker said 330 people had been convicted of terrorism-related offenses in Britain between Sept. 11, 2001, and the end of March 2013. Of those, 121 remain in prison; almost 75 percent of them are British. In the first few months of this year, he said, there have been four trials tied to terrorist plots, including plans for another attack on public places using bombs in backpacks, as in July 2005; two plots to kill soldiers; and one to attack a march of a far-right English organization. In each case, he said, there were guilty pleas, with 24 people convicted.

He argued that technology allowed Western governments to stay ahead of terrorism. “What we know about the terrorists, and the detail of the capabilities we use against them, together represent our margin of advantage,” Mr. Parker said. “That margin gives us the prospect of being able to detect their plots and stop them. But that margin is under attack.”

Mr. Parker did not mention Mr. Snowden by name. Now in Russia to avoid extradition to the United States, Mr. Snowden leaked information to The Guardian and other newspapers that have revealed mass surveillance programs like Prism, run by the National Security Agency in the United States, and the Tempora program in Britain. The two countries share their intelligence findings.

Anger over the surveillance revelations continues in both countries. In Britain, Nick Pickles, director of the civil liberties advocacy group Big Brother Watch, said Mr. Parker had delivered a “partial picture” and a defense that lacked detail or transparency.

“Nothing in this speech did anything to assist a more informed picture or address public concern about the scale of the information being collected by the agencies,” Mr. Pickles said. “The fact he does not feel GCHQ’s reach should be publicly discussed is in stark contrast to the U.S. government’s efforts to maintain public confidence by bringing further transparency and oversight to the reach of the N.S.A.”
251 2013-10-10 Bob Bland, a designer who founded Manufacture New York, just opened the doors to her first program space in the garment center....
252 2013-10-10 LONDON — The Financial Times, signaling a tighter focus on digital publishing, plans to stop printing regional editions and produce only a single global daily newspaper.

In a memo to employees on Tuesday, Lionel Barber, the editor of The Financial Times, said that the publication, which is based in London, would make the change during the first half of 2014. Regional editions are now printed for Britain, Continental Europe, the United States, Asia and the Middle East.

As part of that move, Financial Times reporters are to put increasing emphasis on writing for the news organization’s Web site, which has become central to the company’s fortunes as more of its readership turns to online sources for breaking news.

“Journalists will publish stories to meet peak viewing times on the Web rather than old print deadlines,” Mr. Barber said in the memo. “This will require a change in mind-set for editors and reporters, but it is absolutely the right way forward in the digital age.”

He said that the daily print edition would now be driven by what its reporters publish online, with context added to Web versions of articles.
253 2013-10-10 American officials said last month that at least 45 sites were linked to Syria’s chemical weapons program. The State Department declined on Wednesday to say whether the decision by international inspectors from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons to visit around 20 sites meant that Syria had not declared many of its chemical facilities.

American officials have said that while the Syrian government’s preliminary inventory was more extensive than some anticipated, it was not complete. “Whether there has been sufficient cooperation is an open question,” a European diplomat in The Hague said Wednesday in a telephone interview, speaking on the condition of anonymity in line with diplomatic practice.

The Syrian government is to submit a more formal declaration by Oct. 27, which will be scrutinized for holes. “That will give us some ability to say how serious they are,” the diplomat said.

The declaration is expected to lay out the full history of Syria’s chemical warfare program, providing details on all sites involved in researching, producing or storing its arsenal. It is also supposed to lay out a plan for completing destruction, which will be monitored by the international inspectors.

The first team of inspectors from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons arrived in Damascus last week. By Sunday, the team reported that it was already overseeing the destruction of “category 3” weapons, meaning missile warheads, aerial bombs and systems for delivering chemical agents as well as equipment for mixing and producing them, a process that is to be completed by the end of this month. Underscoring the speed with which the program is unfolding, a second team of around 12 inspectors was expected to arrive in Damascus on Wednesday.

“The teams have jelled very well,” Michael Luhan, a spokesman for the organization, said in a telephone interview. “We’re happy with the way things are moving.”

In an Oct. 7 report to the United Nations Security Council, Secretary General Ban Ki-moon acknowledged that the most difficult phase of work would start in November, when the teams of inspectors and United Nations personnel — a total of about 100 people — turn to the task of destroying an estimated 1,000 tons of precursor chemicals and weapons. To do so, they will have to cross front lines between the warring parties and in some cases through territory controlled by opposition groups, Mr. Ban noted.

The precursor chemicals may not be lethal or dangerous to move, disarmament analysts say. American officials have said the United States could provide a mobile system developed by the Pentagon for neutralizing the precursor chemicals, which could be located outside Syria.

A far more complex challenge will be moving and destroying deadly agents like sarin, VX nerve agents and mustard gas in the middle of Syria’s violent conflict. Diplomats say Syria is consulting with a number of states that are party to the international convention on chemical weapons, almost certainly including Russia, its closest ally and patron, but the upshot of those deliberations will most likely be known only when it submits its formal declaration later this month.

The convention, which Syria agreed to join while under threat of an American strike, prohibits movement of these deadly agents outside the country that holds them. But the Security Council resolution setting the deadline for destroying Syria’s arsenal also provides for extraordinary measures, taking account of the unique circumstances in which the program is being attempted.
254 2013-10-10 The toll may not be conspicuous yet in the broader economy, but at the local level, the ripples are spreading. At many banks, direct small business lending is stalled too, because much of the Internal Revenue Service is closed, preventing lenders from checking tax information provided by applicants. Business owners are also grappling with the absence of other crucial government services, like E-Verify, the online system companies use to confirm the eligibility of prospective employees to work in the United States.

The uncertainty all of this causes is the most maddening part, said Chris Mittelstaedt, 44, owner of the FruitGuys, a produce-delivery company in South San Francisco, Calif. Mr. Mittelstaedt spent part of last week fielding phone calls from customers of his company’s school distribution program, which is financed by federal grants.

Temporary funds came through at the end of the week, but he is frustrated by the confusion he and his customers face. “If businesses are uncertain, they don’t spend,” he said. “That’s really bothersome for us and any growing company.”

Mr. Leh, the manufacturer in Pennsylvania, is quick to trace out the ripple effects of his delayed financing. His prospective new client, of course, is kept waiting. So far, Mr. Leh said, the client is being patient and waiting along with him for the shutdown to be resolved. In addition, Mr. Leh has extended offers to two prospective employees, but he will not be able to bring them on until the loan actually closes.

Also waiting, he said, are “the guys that I’m buying the machines from, the guys who move the machines, the electricians that come in and wire things up, the insurance company I’m dealing with — all of those people aren’t getting paid right now.”

Last week, he intended to turn over a check for $57,000 to JBM Technologies, a machine-tool distributor based in nearby Ivyland that works with manufacturing companies throughout the mid-Atlantic region. The check, a down payment on the first machine Mr. Leh needs, would have gone to John Watkins, the owner of the 20-person company. Instead, the machine — a $300,000 Kitamura machining center about the size of a small room — is sitting idle on Mr. Watkins’s shop floor.

Mr. Watkins planned to have his staff begin work several days ago customizing Mr. Leh’s Kitamura. When the loan was delayed, Mr. Watkins scrambled to redeploy his employees. “We got busy at the right time with another project,” he said. “Without that, it would have been really bad.”

What irritates Mr. Watkins most about the standoff in Washington is that he sees it as a self-inflicted wound on an economy that was finally beginning to rebound. One of his clients is in negotiations with a Swedish financier about backing the transfer of a major manufacturing line from China to the United States. “We’re on the brink of getting people to invest, and then this,” Mr. Watkins said. “What does this look like? Who wants to invest in a country that goes through this?”

The impact of the shutdown on some small businesses is obvious and direct. For example, Dee Ann Smith, 56, the owner of Discover Yosemite, a company that runs day tours through Yosemite National Park, estimates that she is losing $3,500 in ticket sales every day the park remains closed. The hourly employees who lead tours are not being paid, while the salaries for Ms. Smith’s office staff are eating into the cash reserve she had set aside to offset the slow winter season.

The tour company has also stopped buying fuel for its buses from a local gas station, and packed lunches for its hikers from a nearby deli. “That’s 20 to 40 sales a day they’re missing out on,” she said.

For other businesses, the impact of the shutdown is more nuanced. In Lansdowne, Pa., Ari Miller, 37, is trying to build a food company, 1732 Meats. His creations — including jalapeño, black peppercorn and “garlic insanity” bacon — have done well at local farmers’ markets, and he wants to begin wholesale production for retailers.

But Mr. Miller needs certifications from the United States Agriculture Department for every step of his expansion. While the agency’s meat inspectors are deemed essential and remain on the job, its packaging inspectors are not. Mr. Miller had a FedEx envelope stuffed with proposed bacon labels ready to send off for approval Oct. 1 — the day the government shut down. Until those labels are approved, he cannot begin commercial operations.

“We have an investor, we have hard costs — we’re paying rent on our production kitchen even if we’re not using it — but we don’t have any way to generate revenue,” Mr. Miller said. The farmers’ market season ends this month, leaving him with no sales channel until he can get into stores.

He had hoped to ramp up in time for the holidays, but now he is watching that window start to close. Fifteen business days is the standard turnaround time for packaging approval, he said, but others in the industry have warned him that the Agriculture Department will be inundated when it finally reopens. “We’ve heard that you essentially have to add two to three days for every day they’re closed because of the backlog,” he said.

For many, that is the biggest concern — that even after the government finally restarts, it could take weeks for the gears to unjam. Lynn Ozer, the president of Small Business Administration and government-guaranteed lending at Susquehanna Bank, has five clients, including Mr. Leh, waiting to close on loans. Many can be fast-tracked once the S.B.A. reopens, but for those that require special handling, she worries how long it will take the agency to dig out.

She is also braced for her loan business to dry up, especially with the Treasury Department expected to hit its debt ceiling around Oct. 17. The last time Congress had this kind of standoff, in August 2011, business confidence took a dive — and with it, Ms. Ozer said, went her clients’ willingness to borrow money to hire and expand.

Mr. Leh said he was monitoring the debt-ceiling fight in despair. “The thing that’s literally scaring me to death is this reckless behavior,” he said. “They’re going to drive the interest rates up. I’m on a 6 percent variable loan — if it goes up two points, that’s a huge impact for a business my size. And there’s nothing you can do. You just watch the madness continue.”

Ms. Ozer said she heard dozens of times each day from business owners with similar concerns, and it infuriated her.

“Just as small entrepreneurs are willing to take some risks again, the government goes and begins to behave like irresponsible children,” she said. “They make decisions that adversely affect the economy, when it’s so fragile to begin with.

“The real tea party threw tea into the Boston harbor. These people are throwing businesses and people’s salaries.”
255 2013-10-10 “She has led this fight early,” said Ray Halbritter, a representative of the Oneida Indian Nation, which has paid for advertisements calling on the Redskins to abandon their name. “We stand on her shoulders.”

But Ms. Harjo considers her work unfinished because the Redskins and other professional teams have insisted on keeping their names. The , the and the have also been under scrutiny. In May, Daniel Snyder, the Redskins’ owner, echoed his predecessors when he vowed never to change the name. This week he sent a letter to fans defending his decision to keep the team’s name, saying: “The name was never a label. It was, and continues to be, a badge of honor.”

The Redskins, playing in the nation’s capital and in the country’s wealthiest league, have remained steadfast as many other teams have changed their nicknames since the 1960s. The Redskins’ owner at the time, George Preston Marshall, opposed desegregation. Edward Bennett Williams, who owned the team in the 1970s, met with American Indians to discuss the team’s name, but little followed.

“There are so many milestones in this issue,” Ms. Harjo, 68, said Monday at an event held by , a group urging the Redskins to change their name. “It is king of the mountain because it’s associated with the nation’s capital, so what happens here affects the rest of the country.”

Ms. Harjo, Mr. Halbritter, Representative Betty McCollum of and others who attended the event said that they would continue to call on Mr. Snyder and the N.F.L. to change the team’s name. Ms. McCollum, via social media and letters, has received the brunt of the backlash from some fans who think the Redskins should hold their ground.

Last week, days before the league’s 32 owners were to meet in Washington, the debate was inflamed when President Obama said that he would consider changing the name if he owned the team. Reed Hundt, the former chairman of the , has also called on broadcasters to avoid using the team’s nickname.

In what amounts to a break in the stalemate, Adolpho Birch, the N.F.L.’s senior vice president for labor policy and government affairs, sent a letter last Friday to Peter Carmen, the chief operating officer of the Oneida Indian Nation. Mr. Birch suggested that they meet before their previously scheduled meeting on Nov. 22.

Speaking at the N.F.L. owners meeting Tuesday, Commissioner reaffirmed his view that the Redskin name stands for honor and is not derogatory. “But whenever you have a situation like this, you have to listen and recognize that some people might have different perspectives,” Goodell added.

Ms. Harjo, a citizen of the Cheyenne and Arapaho tribes, spent her first 11 years on a farm in an reservation. Her family’s home had no indoor plumbing or electricity, and her idea of wealth was to have ice cubes in her drink, she said. Ms. Harjo’s great-grandfather was Chief Bull Bear, who battled the government over land in the 1800s. As a teenager, she lived with her family in , , where her father was stationed in the United States Army.

After returning to the United States, Ms. Harjo moved to New York to work in radio and theater production. There, she met Frank Ray Harjo and had two children. They worked to promote religious freedom and civil rights and co-produced a biweekly radio program devoted to Native American news and analysis on WBAI-FM. Ms. Harjo also produced hundreds of plays and other programs and helped an improvisational theatrical group.

In 1974, she left for Washington to work as a legislative liaison for two law firms involved in American Indian rights. In 1978, President appointed her a Congressional liaison for Indian affairs, which allowed her to help draft legislation to protect Indian lands and tribal government status. She also worked for the National Congress of American Indians.

Ms. Harjo has spoken regularly on the issue of team names and has held protests, including one at the Super Bowl in 1992 in , where the Redskins played the . At the time, Stephen R. Baird, a young lawyer who had clerked in federal court in Washington, was preparing a law review article on an obscure part of the Lanham Act that forbids trademarks that disparage people.

“There was really no precedent,” said Mr. Baird, who now works for & Weinstine in Minneapolis. “So I asked, Why hasn’t anyone challenged them on that basis?”

Mr. Baird approached Ms. Harjo, and in September 1992 a legal battle began when Harjo et al. v. Pro Football Inc., the corporate name of the Redskins, was filed with the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board. After the three-judge panel agreed to remove the protections, the case was appealed, and a federal judge overturned the decision, saying that the plaintiffs had waited too long to file their case, something that Ms. Harjo and others call a technicality. The declined to hear the appeal.

Manley A. Begay Jr., a plaintiff who teaches at the , said, “Those of us who were plaintiffs have passed on, and many of us have become grandfathers and grandmothers, and our hair has turned grayer, and still we haven’t been heard on our merits.”

Referring to a once-common term for blacks, he added, “After Sambo was removed years and years ago, we still have to deal with these mascots.”

To get around the court’s argument that too much time had passed, Ms. Harjo organized another case with younger American Indian plaintiffs. Oral arguments in that case were heard in March, and Ms. Harjo and others expect a decision perhaps by the end of the year. They are optimistic because, among other things, both sides agreed to recycle the records from the Harjo case as the foundation for this one.

Even if Ms. Harjo and her compatriots prevail, Mr. Snyder will still be able to use Redskins as a name. But the federal government would no longer be obliged to protect the team’s trademarks, and would be less likely to seize counterfeit goods, a potentially expensive exemption that could hit the team and the league in the pocket.

“You’re not just dealing with the Washington franchise, but the whole of the N.F.L.,” Ms. Harjo said. “It’s one monolith after another laden with money and the power it represents.”
256 2013-10-10 BEIJING — Three men have been arrested in the stabbing death of a prominent Tibetan religious leader and British citizen who founded a monastery and Buddhist center in Scotland, Chinese state news media reported Wednesday. The religious leader’s nephew and driver were also killed in the attack, which took place on Tuesday in the western provincial capital of Chengdu.

According to an official microblog post on Tuesday night by the Chengdu police force, the three suspects — who, based on their names, appear to be ethnic Tibetans — had an “economic dispute” with the religious leader, Choje Akong Rinpoche. The suspects confronted Mr. Akong and the other two victims with knives at Mr. Akong’s home in Chengdu on Tuesday morning, the police said. A spokesman for the Chengdu police declined to give more details about the attack or the motivations of the suspects.

Mr. Akong was known as a charismatic religious leader who searched for ways for Tibetans and Chinese to work together. Many Tibetans have bridled at rule by Beijing ever since the Chinese Communist Party and its military invaded and occupied central Tibet in 1951. In recent years, tensions between Tibetans and Chinese security forces deployed across the Tibetan plateau have soared. In 2008, Tibetans took part in a mass uprising, which was harshly suppressed, and since then more than a hundred Tibetans have set themselves on fire in protest.

Robert J. Barnett, a scholar of modern Tibet at Columbia University, said Mr. Akong’s killing did not appear to be motivated by sectarian or ethnic tensions, or politics.

“Though forceful with Tibetans whom he worked with on his social projects, Akong Rinpoche was very judicious in political matters, avoiding any public assertions in either direction, and is very unlikely to have attracted serious hostility from any side,” Professor Barnett said in an e-mail. “He went as far as anyone has done in recent times in the effort to see if long-term, constructive Tibetan-Chinese coexistence and cooperation can be achieved without either side having to give up its basic principles and commitments.”

Lama Yeshe Losal Rinpoche, Mr. Akong’s brother and the abbot of the Samye Ling Monastery in Scotland that Mr. Akong founded, released a statement on Tuesday that said the three victims had been “assassinated” in Chengdu. A post-mortem was being carried out at a hospital, the abbot said.

Mr. Akong was a member of the Kagyu branch of Tibetan Buddhism, whose spiritual leader is the Karmapa Lama. After establishing the Samye Ling Monastery, Mr. Akong went on to create a network of social welfare projects across the developing world, including in Tibetan areas ruled by China.
257 2013-10-10 For Dr. Levitt, the unexpected phone call from Stockholm came at 2:15 in the morning. “It was an enormous shock,” he said, admitting that he had checked various Nobel predictions on the Internet. “You will not find my name on any of them. I’m not sure it was a good thing or a bad thing.”

With committee members he knew personally informing him that he had won, Dr. Levitt realized it was not a hoax.

“One of the members I promised to send a review to maybe a couple of years ago, but I haven’t done it yet,” Dr. Levitt said. “He said, ‘We haven’t gotten your review yet, but we’re still going to give you the prize.’ ”

Dr. Levitt then called his 98-year-old mother in London and told her to turn on the computer and watch the news conference on the Web. She asked him to spell the Web site — nobelprize.org. Dr. Levitt told her, “Just Google ‘Nobel Prize,’ and it’ll be the first hit.”

In the laboratory, experimental chemists can readily tell the beginning chemical ingredients and the final products. But the actual reactions usually occur very quickly. “It’s like seeing all the actors before Hamlet,” said Sven Lidin, chairman of the Nobel selection committee, during the prize announcement webcast on Wednesday, “and all the dead bodies after, and then you wonder what happened in the middle. And actually there is some interesting action there, and this is what theoretical chemistry provides us with — the whole drama.”

But in the 1960s, when a computer filled a room, computer programs had to be crammed into small slices of memory, limiting what could be done. At the Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel, Dr. Warshel, who was then a doctoral student, and Dr. Levitt, who worked with Dr. Warshel as a computer programmer, calculated the behavior of molecules, even very large biological molecules, although that early work used Newtonian physics and not quantum effects.

Meanwhile, at Harvard, Dr. Karplus’s research group developed computer programs that simulated chemical reactions and employed the full power of quantum physics, which looks at physical reactions at the microscopic level. After completing his doctorate, Dr. Warshel joined Dr. Karplus’s laboratory as a postdoctoral researcher, and in 1972, they published a paper that combined quantum and classical physics in describing the chemical behavior of certain molecules.

Later, Dr. Warshel renewed his collaboration with Dr. Levitt, who had completed his doctorate at the University of Cambridge in England, expanding their programs to tackle enzymes, which are proteins that govern chemical reactions in living organisms. From bouncing X-rays off proteins, chemists knew the shapes of some enzymes, but less about their functions.

“It’s like seeing a watch and wondering how it actually works,” Dr. Warshel said. “So in short, what we developed is a way, which required a computer, to take the structure of a protein and then to eventually understand how exactly it does what it does.”

They found that they could not understand the behavior of the enzyme without including the effects of the surrounding molecules — water, in particular. “This was really, in my view, the conceptual breakthrough,” Dr. Warshel said. “I realized that everything you want to do with computers could be done if you make it simple enough. We wrote in a way that did not require too much memory.”

Experimental scientists were slow to accept the new work, Dr. Warshel said. “When you do something on computer, it’s very easy to dismiss it and say you made it up,” he said. He said the experimentalists were happy when the calculations agreed with the experiments, but not when Dr. Warshel claimed to be describing phenomena not seen in the experiments.

“The last thing people want is that you will come and explain their system,” he said. “I never succeeded to convince anyone. I just made them angry.”

Today, Dr. Lidin of the Nobel committee said, computer simulations have become as informative as the experiments. “You still have to do the experiment,” he said. “But the predictions that theory make are becoming so much powerful these days that we can perhaps save 90 percent of the experimenting and concentrate on the 10 percent where we know that the most important results will lie.”
258 2013-10-11 Seniors may be tempted to abandon Medicare for policies on the new online insurance exchanges, some state officials fear....
259 2013-10-11 Kevin Hassett, now an economist at the American Enterprise Institute, remembers Janet Yellen’s outreach to junior economists at the Federal Reserve.
260 2013-10-11 The influential South African artist reflects on the late abstractionist, whose work he discovered for the first time during a trip to India earlier this year....
261 2013-10-11 True productivity means finding the right balance between taking care of what is truly urgent and focusing on what is less pressing but will most likely add the most enduring value....
262 2013-10-11 Lloyd’s may be tempted to focus its next share sale on retail customers after strong demand for the postal service’s shares. But the differences between the two offerings warrant a different approach....
263 2013-10-11 As LightSquared’s creditors get prepared to consider which of four reorganization plans to vote for, it bears noting how much Chapter 11 has been changed by the 2005 amendments to the bankruptcy code....
264 2013-10-11 Beer that sells for $2,000 bottle. A marijuana-delivery service. And a “canine Airbnb.”...
265 2013-10-11 Andrew K. Rose, a colleague of Janet Yellen at the University of California, Berkeley, discusses Ms. Yellen's role as a professor.
266 2013-10-11 As India battles with slowing growth, rising inflation and a weakened rupee, small businesses across the country are among the worst affected....
267 2013-10-11 Google announced an update to its terms of service that allows the company to include adult users’ names, photos and comments in ads shown across the Web, based on ratings, reviews and posts they have made on Google Plus and other Google service...
268 2013-10-11 Del Monte Foods said that it planned to rename itself to reflect its focus on pet food brands like Meow Mix and Kibbles ‘n Bits....
269 2013-10-11 There’s a new nerd in town, and he’s causing all kinds of problems for Scott (Sam Eidson), the loathsome role-playing gamer whose downward spiral fuels “Zero Charisma.”

A fond comedy about losers and delusionals, this fearless dive into the very particular obsessions of the waning subculture of tabletop gaming — which involves specialized dice and hand-painted figurines — has plenty of humor but no satirical bite. Straining the seams of his thrash-metal T-shirts, Scott is a burly, balding obsessive whose face appears to have been molded from Play-Doh. With a hated doughnut-delivery job and his ailing grandmother for a roommate, Scott comes alive only as the tyrannical fulcrum of a weekly game of his own devising, bossing his friends through Tolkienesque adventures.

But when one player leaves to save his marriage, Scott reluctantly recruits Miles (Garrett Graham), a charming übergeek with a popular blog and the least attainable fantasy of all: a gorgeous girlfriend. Fanning all of Scott’s insecurities, Miles is the perfect nemesis, and as Scott’s life gradually dismantles, the directors, Katie Graham and Andrew Matthews, indulge his reprehensible behavior. But by failing to push their galumphing antihero toward the self-knowledge he so desperately needs, they rob the film of its emotional stakes. As a result, it feels as flabby in the tail as Scott himself.
270 2013-10-11 As the European Union passed a resolution Thursday condemning caste-based discrimination, a human rights activist explains why such discrimination must be condemned globally as a human rights violation....
271 2013-10-11 Human Rights Watch said it had documented for the first time that Syrian rebel groups targeted civilians in Latakia for executions and hostage-taking. More than 200 people were still being held hostage, the agency said.
272 2013-10-11 An unnamed daughter of Galileo was sold at auction in Newmarket, England, for $8.36 million, the highest price for a yearling filly. Galileo, the world’s most sought-after stallion, also sired Frankel, who had a perfect record in 14 races. The buyer was a stable owned by the Qatari royal family.
273 2013-10-11 WASHINGTON — The Agriculture Department says three California poultry processing facilities linked to a salmonella outbreak in raw chicken can stay open.

Foster Farms, which owns the facilities, has made “immediate substantive changes to their slaughter and processing to allow for continued operations,” the department said.

Regulators threatened this week to shut down the plants. Sampling in September showed that raw chicken processed by those facilities included strains of salmonella that were linked to the outbreak that has sickened 278 people in 17 states.

The government said inspectors would monitor the company’s improvements and sample Foster Farms meat for the next three months.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said that the outbreak, which began in March, was continuing and that some illnesses began as recently as two weeks ago. The majority of the illnesses have been in California.

The outbreak has heightened concerns because it has a high rate of hospitalizations. The C.D.C. said 42 percent of victims had been hospitalized, about double the normal rate, and the salmonella strain involved is resistant to many antibiotics, making it more dangerous.
274 2013-10-11 PARIS — An international court has indicted a fifth suspect in the 2005 killing of Rafik Hariri, the former Lebanon prime minister, describing the suspect, like the other four indictees, as a member of Hezbollah.

Prosecutors with the Special Tribunal for Lebanon, based just outside The Hague, have charged Hassan Habib Merhi with terrorism and intentional homicide over his role in preparing the car bomb that killed Mr. Hariri, 8 members of his convoy and 13 bystanders in Beirut.

The new indictment, which was issued in July and made public on Thursday, charged that Mr. Merhi participated in an elaborate plot including the use of five different groups of mobile phones, each with a different code name, to stake out Mr. Hariri’s movements in the weeks before he was killed. The indictment also said that Mr. Merhi was involved in buying the van used in the attack, and that he was part of a ruse to deflect suspicion from those involved.

Neither Mr. Merhi, who is Lebanese, nor the four other Lebanese men who were charged in 2011 have been arrested or are expected at the tribunal anytime soon. Hezbollah has long denied that any of its members were linked to the killings, and said it would never surrender anyone.

A judge’s arrest warrant, disclosed on Thursday, made it clear that parts of Lebanon that are considered Hezbollah strongholds were off limits even to Lebanon’s judicial police and have become more inaccessible since the civil war in neighboring Syria began to spill into Lebanon.

In July and August, bombs went off in Hezbollah neighborhoods, widely believed to be the work of Syrian rebels taking revenge against Hezbollah for having sent fighters to support the government of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria.
275 2013-10-11 “This announcement today is a welcome change,” said the governor’s spokesman, Tony Venhuizen. “The governor is hopeful it can lead to a solution that reopens Mount Rushmore.”

Before the shutdown, Mr. Daugaard had offered to spend state money to keep Mount Rushmore open on a limited basis — the gift shop would have remained closed, for instance — and staff the park with state workers. The cost to the state would have been minimal, Mr. Venhuizen said. But the governor is not convinced that the current proposal would work for South Dakota.

“This is a very different offer, almost certainly a more expensive one,” Mr. Venhuizen said. “We really need to know the details about what it would cost before he can make a decision.”

In Arizona, a spokesman for Gov. Jan Brewer said the state had received no formal offer from the Interior Department about a change in policy and was skeptical about the offer described.

Ms. Brewer had offered to pay to partly reopen Grand Canyon National Park, for instance, at a cost of $30,000 per day, said Andrew Wilder, the governor’s spokesman. But to fully reopen the park would cost far more, he said.

“I think the administration would need to explain why full funding it is necessary and why a partial reopen is not possible,” Mr. Wilder said. “Frankly, it raises suspicions about whether or not they are earnest in their offer.”

Other states said they were uninterested in Secretary Jewell’s offer.

A spokesman for Matt Mead, the governor of Wyoming, said the offer did not change the state’s position. “The governor has said Wyoming cannot bail out the federal government, and we cannot spend state money to do the work of the federal government,” said Renny MacKay, the spokesman.

California also said it would pass.

“The state has no plans to front the money to reopen the national parks in California,” said H. D. Palmer, deputy director for external affairs at the California Department of Finance. He cited uncertainty over the debt ceiling negotiations in Washington as a factor, as well as uncertainty about whether the states would be reimbursed.

“It’s unfortunate,” Mr. Palmer said. “Because a number of communities around national parks, which depend on people visiting the parks, are already feeling the impacts of the shutdown.”
276 2013-10-11 New York voters will decide in November whether to allow seven new casinos to open across the state. Gov. Andrew Cuomo and most members of the Legislature are strongly in favor of these casinos. But they do not have the right to skew the language on the ballot, as they have contrived to do, in a way that tips the scales in favor of a pro-gambling outcome.

Judge Richard Platkin of the New York State Supreme Court has a chance to find a remedy for that error on Friday when he hears a complaint about the wording.

The original ballot language recommended by the state Attorney General’s office was properly neutral: “The proposed amendment to section 9 of article 1 of the Constitution would allow the Legislature to authorize and regulate up to seven casinos in New York State. Shall the amendment be approved?”

The State Board of Elections changed that language after consulting with Mr. Cuomo’s staff. The language now says that the casinos would be for the “legislative purposes of promoting job growth, increasing aid to schools, and permitting local governments to lower property taxes through revenues generated.”

This is advocacy, pure and simple, and it could well determine the outcome if it sticks. A Siena College poll showed voters were in favor of the amendment when they heard the pro-jobs language, but were split down the middle when they heard the neutral wording.

A Brooklyn attorney, Eric Snyder, has sued to get the skewed language off the ballot. The state says he missed a deadline to file a suit. But that’s unfair because the state was late in posting the language on its Web site. Judge Platkin should rule in Mr. Snyder’s favor, let the case go forward and then order that neutral, straightforward language be restored to the ballot.
277 2013-10-11 He is expected to push for a German-style works council in the plant — a committee of hourly and salaried employees that gives labor a voice at the management table.

A works council is not like an American union, which can negotiate contracts and authorize strikes. But it does have the advantage of being a familiar form of labor relations for a German car company like VW.

The larger question is whether a works council can satisfy employees and politicians in Tennessee — and give the U.A.W. a foothold in the growing Southern auto industry.

Mr. Osterloh said recently that the Chattanooga plant might have a better chance at landing a hot new sport utility vehicle for the assembly plant, which now produces Passat sedans, if it had a works council to represent it.

In Germany, works councils have a long tradition and are an integral part of the process of mitbestimmung — the right of workers to have a say in corporate decisions. Managers in Germany see the councils as a way to head off labor problems and improve productivity.

To many Americans, the notion of works councils belongs alongside socialized medicine and six-week vacations as examples of the practices that have doomed Europe to near-zero growth. But another way to look at it is that works councils are part of a model that has helped preserve Germany’s industrial base and hold the country’s unemployment to a relatively low level: 5.2 percent, compared with 7.3 percent in the United States.

“It always depends on the people,” said Franz Schabmüller, owner of FS Firmenverwaltung, a group of 10 midsize manufacturing companies based in the Bavarian city of Ingolstadt. “If the works council has people of integrity who have the interests of the company at heart, then it can work well.”

One open question in Chattanooga is whether the 1,600 or so hourly workers at the VW factory would need to belong to a union like the U.A.W. to join a works council.

The U.A.W. said it would welcome a works council, but said that it would be legal only if a majority of workers had opted for a union. And many labor experts agree.

“If the company set up a representation system like that, a union would challenge it and they could probably win their argument that it’s a company-dominated union,” said Richard Hurd, a professor of industrial and labor relations at Cornell University. Such a union set up by the company would violate American labor law, he said.

Emotions in the plant are also rising. Recently the U.A.W. said it had signatures in support of union representation from a majority of the plant’s workers.

But some workers who signed cards have since balked at being part of the organizing effort. With the aid of an anti-union foundation, they are challenging the validity of the cards to the federal National Labor Relations Board.

Now workers opposed to the U.A.W. are circulating their own petition, supported by 30 percent of the plant’s workers.

To some opposed to the union, an attempt to bring European business practices to Chattanooga is a distraction from the bigger issue of whether the U.A.W., based in Detroit, can get a foothold in the South. Two other German automakers, BMW and Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz unit, also have factories in the South, in Spartanburg, S.C., and Vance, Ala. Neither plant is unionized or has an elected works council.

In Germany, works councils are not the same as unions, though the two often cooperate. The councils, whose members are elected by employees, have a right to be consulted on job cuts or other decisions about working conditions. They are barred by law from negotiating over wages. That is the prerogative of labor unions, which typically bargain on an industrywide basis.

In Germany, there is also no clear demarcation between unionized and nonunionized companies. Any person can join a union. The union acquires power only if enough employees join to form a critical mass able to call a strike or otherwise exert pressure on management.

At all but the smallest German companies, workers can elect committees that have a right to weigh in on policies that affect working conditions. At large companies, worker representatives even sit on supervisory boards that choose the chief executive and approve major decisions. If a company has at least 200 employees, it must pay the salary of a full-time worker representative.

And as things now stand, every Volkswagen factory in the world has a works committee except one: the plant in Chattanooga.

Even in Germany, corporate executives sometimes grumble about having to listen to employees and share information. But they also concede that the system allows bosses and employees to cooperate more effectively in times of crisis. One study showed that worker-management cooperation helped contain unemployment during a sharp economic downturn in 2009.

“Like all systems, it has advantages and disadvantages,” said Martin Leutz, a spokesman for Gesamtmetall, an industry association that negotiates wage agreements for many German manufacturers, including Volkswagen. “Fundamentally, we are of the view that mitbestimmung has proved its value.”

But would mitbestimmung work in America? Mr. Osterloh, the head of VW’s works council, thinks so.

But VW’s Chattanooga workers may be a tough sell. Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee and Gov. Bill Haslam are both conservative Republicans, no friends of trade unions. Mr. Corker told The Chattanooga Times Free Press that unionization of the VW plant “would be a negative for the future economic growth of our state.”

An earlier trip by the German labor leaders was called off for unrelated reasons. Mr. Osterloh said this week that he was trying to reschedule it and that Mr. Corker and Mr. Haslam were receptive to a meeting.

“I don’t even know if they know what a works council is,” Mr. Osterloh said in a telephone interview.

A spokesman for Mr. Haslam said on Thursday: “One of the things that makes Tennessee great is that it is a right-to-work state. Volkswagen is an outstanding employer that puts a lot of focus on employee satisfaction, and the company has been incredibly successful with the current structure in Chattanooga.”

Volkswagen, partly owned by the German state of Lower Saxony, has a long history of worker cooperation, and Mr. Osterloh is practically a member of top management. He said he spoke at least once a week to Martin Winterkorn, the VW chief executive.

“When there are problems with production, productivity or quality, those are all things that are talked about with the works council,” Mr. Osterloh said.
278 2013-10-11 Boeing is almost finished repairing several balky systems on a new 787 Dreamliner operated by Norwegian Air Shuttle, the latest airline to complain about annoying malfunctions, the airline’s chief executive said Thursday.

The executive, Bjorn Kjos, said in an interview that work on the plane, which has been grounded for two weeks, could be completed Friday.

Mr. Kjos said Boeing had sent more than a dozen technicians to Europe to work on the jet. He said he planned to take advantage of their presence to accelerate regular maintenance on Norwegian Air Shuttle’s second Dreamliner next week.

He said he had been angry on behalf of his airline’s passengers over software malfunctions involving the brake warning lights and a faulty hydraulic pump on the 787 that was grounded. Some passengers were stranded for 12 hours in September when flights were canceled. Norwegian officials had called the problems with the plane a nightmare.

But Mr. Kjos said Norwegian, a discount airline, had not run into any major problems with its other Dreamliner, and planned to take delivery of five more of the new fuel-efficient planes by the end of 2014 as it expands service to American and Asian airports.
279 2013-10-11 President Joyce Banda dissolved her cabinet on Thursday in the wake of the arrests of several officials in recent weeks on suspicion of stealing state funds. The government was forced to shut down its payment system last week so that it could investigate reports that more than $4 million was missing. The police said that about 10 government officials had been arrested so far on graft charges, and that tens of thousands of dollars in cash had been recovered from the officials’ cars and homes. Last week, envoys from eight Western nations, whose aid has accounted for about 40 percent of the state budget, asked Ms. Banda to find ways to reduce corruption, which poses a risk to “Malawi’s stability, rule of law and reputation.”
280 2013-10-11 What can machine learning and statistics do for fantasy football? It turns out, quite a bit.

In this model, I apply a clustering algorithm called the Gaussian mixture model to an aggregation of expert ranking data provided by Fantasypros.com. The algorithm finds natural tiers and clusters within the data. The charts that result visualize the tiers and help you decide your starting lineup each week.

The intuition behind both this model and the Fantasypros model is that a panel of a hundred experts can provide more accurate predictions than any one single expert can. Each expert uses his or her own sources and analysis to generate player rankings each week according to matchups. When you combine them, you get the Fantasypros’ E.C.R., or Expert Consensus Rankings.

But all ranked lists share a flaw. They imply a strict monotonic ordering and do not illustrate the true distance between players. A list implies QB1 > QB2 > QB3, whereas the reality might be QB1 >> QB2 = QB3.

The Gaussian mixture model addresses this, and the results are clear in the charts that are generated.

The black dot for each player is his position in the two-dimensional space of weighted E.C.R. (by expert accuracy) and average rank. The bars represent a half standard deviation of average rank. The color corresponds to the tier of each player found by the algorithm. I recommend starting players in higher tiers with higher ranks.

When two players are very close, this means experts are near 50/50 and the algorithm finds them as equal. In this case, I recommend diversifying your starters across different teams, flipping a coin, or going with your gut. If the experts cannot agree, there is no right or wrong answer.
281 2013-10-11 As teams firmed up their rosters in late summer, Collins’s agent, Arn Tellem, received inquiries from at least three teams in the market for a reserve big man who understood positional defense. One of them, the Detroit Pistons, settled on Josh Harrellson, a third-year player who cost the Pistons more than $500,000 less than the nearly $1.4 million Collins would have earned — the minimum salary for a player with his experience.

Several league executives said the number of teams interested in Collins had shrunk because of new penalties for teams exceeding the luxury tax threshold.

Brooklyn was thought to be a potential landing site because Collins spent roughly half his career with the Nets when they played in New Jersey, where he was a trusted teammate of Jason Kidd, now the team’s coach. But with the Nets’ soaring payroll, Collins would have cost the team almost four times his salary in taxes.

Collins acknowledged that signing younger players would be more prudent financially, but he asked how experience could be discounted in such a competitive sport.

“In my mind it shouldn’t be about that,” he said, referring to minimizing costs. “The N.B.A. is for the best players, not for the most affordable players. There isn’t a professional athlete that doesn’t want to play 12, 13 years. What I did when I was younger was look up to the guys like Dikembe Mutombo and Alonzo Mourning who played over a decade. What did they do to last that long? A lot of it is keeping your body in shape, keeping your mind sharp, staying hungry. You should always want guys around like that to set that example, in my mind.”

David Stern, the N.B.A.’s commissioner, and Adam Silver, who will replace Stern in February, would not comment on Collins, other than to say that the league had been in close contact with Tellem and that they were satisfied that teams were making only basketball-related decisions. But one team’s general manager, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said that “some teams just might not want to deal with it because of the media implications.”

The issue of what might be a challenge for an individual team versus what is best for the league’s overall image figured to be a thorny one for the N.B.A. from the moment Collins publicly declared his intention to be the first openly gay man playing a major American team sport. (Robbie Rogers of Major League Soccer’s Los Angeles Galaxy has since filled the breach.)

The N.B.A. has long prided itself on being as socially progressive as it is diverse, and many supporters of gay rights — along with many high-profile players — cheered Collins’s announcement.

Richard Lapchick, a human-rights activist and sports industry watchdog, said at the time: “I do think it’s important for him to be in the league as a visible symbol. If he makes this courageous stand but then disappears from the locker room, it would not do it justice.”

But the combination of Collins’s age and the financial complexities are impossible to ignore. Recently, Lapchick said: “In all my work on hiring practices, I always argue to bring a diverse pool into the interview process and then hire the best person. I am rooting hard for Jason to play this year, but I want him to make it on his own — for his sake and for the sake of the issue.”

Another advocate for gay athletes, Hudson Taylor, the executive director of Athlete Ally, wrote in an e-mail: “The decision to sign him rests with individual team owners. One of them has to step up.”

Doc Rivers, who coached Collins for part of last season in Boston and is now the coach and chief basketball executive of the Los Angeles Clippers, said he would have no problem being the one.

“Let me put it this way: if one of my bigs goes down and he’s not signed, I’m signing him,” Rivers said. “I’m not signing him because he’s gay. I’m not signing him because it’s a story and it brings us attention. I’m signing him because he has a value to help us win. I do have the advantage that I coached him, and I know what type of guy he is, how tough he is.”

Over the grueling N.B.A. season, players are invariably injured. Smart, experienced big men are not easy to replace. Collins nodded at the mention of Kenyon Martin, a brawny veteran who was unsigned for much of last season before playing a significant role last spring for the Knicks.

“This is not an unprecedented situation, as far as being a veteran and not joining a team until later in the season,” Collins said. “So there are a lot of ways that this can play out.”

In the meantime, Collins works out six days a week, taking Sundays off. He runs on hills, treadmills and tracks. He does yoga. He shoots around. He enjoys living in Los Angeles, where he grew up and where Jarron works for the Clippers. With Bill Bean, a former baseball player who is gay, Collins threw out the first pitch at a Dodgers game in late September.

In conversation, he laughs easily but steadfastly says he is ready for whatever slings, arrows and elbows the game might throw at him.

He welcomes the many people who approach him — far more than before his announcement, he said — to wish him well and share their own coming-out stories.

Some of his new acquaintances are those he has long and secretly admired, like tennis’s Martina Navratilova, a champion of L.G.B.T. rights. Communicating by e-mail, she has told him he should understand that his actions will have lasting impacts on people he may never meet.

This week, he met David Kopay, a former N.F.L. player and one of the first professional athletes to come out. He has befriended Rogers, whom he has watched play for the Galaxy. And he believes that even if he never plays another N.B.A. game, he will have had a lasting impact on the league’s social conscience.

Collins noted that when Indiana center Roy Hibbert made a homophobic remark to the news media last spring, he was immediately fined $75,000. “It was language that in the past might have gone unnoticed,” Collins said. “Now everyone knows.”

He added: “With regard to social progress, I know what David Stern and Adam Silver want as far as changing the culture of sport. I think they know that everyone looks to the N.B.A., and they’ve done an excellent job.”

Now all Collins wants is a job that allows him to suit up again, to blend his new normal with an old routine. Having declared who exactly he is, he just wants to be who he was.

“I love puzzles, challenges, the feeling that you get when you have an obstacle and go through adversity, finding the strength to go on,” he said. “As an athlete, that all makes sense to me. I do have that feeling now that I’m not alone in this and I have that mind-set, you know, of ‘bring it on.’ ”

Asked if he would consider playing abroad, he said, firmly: “I’m an N.B.A. player. I want to play in the N.B.A. I just have to stay in this mode of handling this test, of having patience. You know, I have faced worse in my life.”
282 2013-10-11 In 1935, the Supreme Court answered. Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes, with the support of four of his colleagues, concluded that the government could change the private contracts, just as it could pass a bankruptcy law that enabled some debtors to escape their obligations. But, he said, the government had no legal right to amend its own bonds.

Then, in a pirouette that left legal scholars gaping, he ruled that because it was no longer legal to own gold coins, a bondholder suffered no actual losses. Had the government paid gold coins, the bondholder would have been required to exchange them for dollars at the new rate.

It was not one of the great court decisions, at least in terms of legal logic. But it was necessary for the health of the American economy.

Consider what would have happened if the gold clause had been upheld, for both government and private debts. Suddenly any debtor who owed $1,000 in gold dollars would owe $1,690 in new dollars. But incomes would not have risen. Companies that were barely hanging on would have gone broke. The Depression would have become much worse.

Robert H. Jackson, who would later become a Supreme Court justice, wrote in 1941, “Any decision that upset the law as Congress had enacted it, however sound in lawyer logic, could only breed widespread trade mischief, commercial confusion and debtor disaster.” President Roosevelt deemed the issue so important that he planned to defy the court if the government lost the suit.

I bring this up because most sovereign nations now do not have the luxury the United States has. When they borrow internationally, they borrow in a foreign currency. And the bonds often specify that any disputes will be settled under foreign law — usually United States or British law.

Many recent national defaults stemmed in part from those problems. The 1990s Asian financial crisis began in Thailand, which had tied its currency to the United States dollar — and had borrowed a lot of dollars. When it was forced to devalue its currency, the baht, it suddenly owed far more baht than it had borrowed, not to mention far more than it could hope to repay.

Greece provides an even better example. Had its debt been denominated in Greek drachmas, its currency would have plunged in value when the Greek crisis unfolded. A lower currency would have helped some Greek exporters and brought in bargain-seeking foreign tourists. That would not have solved Greece’s fundamental problems, which include a bloated government payroll and immense tax evasion, but it would not have caused the depression that the country is still in.

Instead, the debt was in euros. Unable to print them, or to borrow more from suddenly fearful credit markets, Greece turned to the rest of Europe for a bailout that came with harsh terms.

The issue of which nation’s law prevailed was also important. Most Greek bonds had been issued under Greek law. Greece could, and did, change that law and force bondholders to exchange their bonds for new ones worth far less. But some of the bonds were issued under foreign law, and those bondholders could not be forced to give in. There were not that many such bonds outstanding, and in the end Greece continued to meet those obligations. In the summer of 2012, one such bond traded for 14 cents on the euro. Today it trades for 90 cents.

Obviously any country would prefer to borrow from foreign investors in a currency it can print, under laws it can change. But few countries have enough credibility with investors to do that. Right now, there are three: the United States, Japan and Britain.

Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, said on Thursday that a deal was needed to protect world financial stability, adding that “a short-term agreement produces less stability.” But, he told the Economics Club of New York, “The world still does not believe that the United States will not find a way out of this.”

That is why those who are warning of a disaster if there is a default on American debt might turn out to be wrong, or at least premature. If it is widely assumed that any default will be temporary, certain to be fixed in the immediate future, the reaction could be muted.

But there is no guarantee of that. Why risk destroying the United States’ world standing over a dispute about health insurance?

One part of the answer is that some Tea Party legislators ran for office on a platform of hating the government, with language about how evil it is.

That is extraordinary. There are people in the United States who view oil companies, or investment banks, as evil and say they would like to destroy them. None of them have managed to gain senior positions at Exxon Mobil or Goldman Sachs. But right now people who feel that way about the government seem to be able to prevent it from functioning if they do not get their way.

Fortunately, as the economist Henry Kaufman noted this week, “The U.S. dollar is the key reserve currency, and there is no immediate alternative to it. Not the yen, not the euro, not the Chinese currency.”

That means it might take a lot of craziness to destroy the privileged American position. It does not mean such destruction is impossible. The members of Congress who support the government — presumably a large majority — need to find a way to override those who oppose it.

In 1935, Justice James Clark McReynolds wrote for three of his colleagues in denouncing the decision to allow the United States to renege on its promises. His opinion concluded, “Loss of reputation for honorable dealing will bring us unending humiliation; the impending legal and moral chaos is appalling.”

He was wrong. By the time the decision came down, it was clear that the repudiation of the gold clause had not destroyed the government’s credit. Decades later, the economists Carmen M. Reinhart and Kenneth S. Rogoff would classify the repudiation as a default, but in 1935, most Americans — and most foreign lenders — did not see it that way.

But the McReynolds forecast could come true if defaults become acceptable in pursuit of partisan political advantage. Then the unique position of the United States could erode or even vanish.

“To throw that away,” said Robert J. Barbera, the co-director of the Center for Financial Economics at Johns Hopkins University, “would be the single greatest mistake in American economic history.”
283 2013-10-11 Stocks on Wall Street closed higher on potential signs of progress on fiscal negotiations in Washington....
284 2013-10-11 The survey of city finance officers showed that 72 percent believed their cities were better able to pay their bills and keep services operating this year than in the previous year. In last year’s survey, 57 percent made a similar claim, while only 43 percent did so in 2010.

Still, the officials reported that their cities were still feeling the effects of the 2008 recession. The recent economic improvements, while notable, are still happening too slowly, they said, and skyrocketing pension and health costs remain a constant worry.

“Pension and health care costs will persist as a challenge to city budgets for years to come,” the survey said.

City sales tax revenue increased 6.2 percent in 2012, a rate that the league characterized as “robust” and that indicated the rising strength of local economies. Financial officers said they expected such revenue to continue to rise this year, though at a slower rate.

For those cities that have income taxes, revenue rose 4.4 percent from 2011 to last year. Property tax revenue, however, fell a small amount, 0.4 percent, despite higher housing prices, largely because it can take years for cities to reassess properties to reflect changing prices.

Concerned about shrinking state and federal aid, city officials are also keeping more cash on hand at the end of the year as a kind of rainy-day fund, following several years in which cities were forced to eat into such reserves to blunt the impact of the economic downturn.

When the financial officers were asked which budget factors had the most negative impact on their cities, 80 percent said health benefit costs, 75 percent said pension costs and 73 percent said infrastructure demands. When asked what had the most positive impact, 65 percent pointed to the “health of the local economy.”

To help offset these rising costs, 39 percent said their city had raised existing fees for municipal services, while about a quarter of the cities had established new fees for previously free services. Only one in five had taken the politically unpopular route of raising property taxes.

About a third reported cutting work forces or instituting hiring freezes. Labor Department statistics released in August showed that municipal government employment across the United States was about half a million jobs lower than in August 2008, just before the financial collapse.

“Looking to 2014 and beyond, all indications point to improving conditions for city budgets, with national economic indicators pointing to continued slow growth,” the report concluded. “External factors, however, could easily undermine cautiously optimistic projections, including, most notably, the possibility of federal budget cuts.”

The outcome of those external factors will have a major impact on whether cities can sustain this fiscal momentum.

“Everybody is watching Congress now,” said Ronald C. Green, the city controller in Houston. “We’re looking at the debt ceiling.”

The partisan gridlock in Washington has at least forced cities to come up with fresh ideas to address their own budget problems, said Dan Gilmartin, the executive director of the Michigan Municipal League.

“I think cities are just getting used to being victims of some of these ideological food fights we’re seeing in the federal government and in state capitals,” Mr. Gilmartin said.
285 2013-10-11 LONDON — Malala Yousafzai, the Pakistani schoolgirl who was shot in the head by the Taliban for her advocacy of girls’ education, was awarded the Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought on Thursday by the European Parliament.

Ms. Yousafzai, 16, became a global symbol of bravery after she was attacked on her way home from school in the Swat Valley, in northwestern Pakistan, a year ago. She is seen as a contender for the Nobel Peace Prize, due to be announced Friday.

Ms. Yousafzai was chosen as the winner of the $65,000 Sakharov Prize by the heads of the political groupings in the 766-member European Parliament. She was a less contentious choice for the prize than another nominee on the short list, Edward J. Snowden, the American intelligence contractor whose revelations about American and British electronic surveillance have angered those governments.

“By awarding the Sakharov Prize to Malala Yousafzai, the European Parliament acknowledges the incredible strength of this young woman,” Martin Schulz, the president of the Parliament, said in a statement issued in Strasbourg, France. “Malala bravely stands for the right of all children to be granted a fair education. This right for girls is far too commonly neglected.”

After she was shot in October 2012, Ms. Yousafzai was taken to Britain for emergency surgery. She lives with her family in Birmingham, England.
286 2013-10-12 A growing share of a shrinking pie....
287 2013-10-12 Mr. Zeidan has struggled with the militias and their leaders for months. The government’s efforts to push through reforms of the army and police forces and absorb the militias into state institutions has met with resistance from militia members, many of them veterans of the uprising against Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the longtime dictator.

Their leaders complain that they have been excluded from Parliament and government decision-making and left out of discussions on the future of Libya, in particular overhauls to the country’s security sector.

Armed groups frequently burst into government offices to register their complaints about unpaid salaries or bills. In May, militiamen besieged Parliament and a ministry building demanding the passing of a law against members of the Qaddafi government and calling for the government’s resignation.

After his release Mr. Zeidan called for wisdom to mend fences. But on Friday he appeared ready to confront those behind his abduction. He accused members of Parliament of plotting to remove him and using the militias for their political goals.

He said the armed men who abducted him told him they belonged to the Revolutionaries Operations Room, a security agency that was recently created out of several militias by Nouri Abusahmain, the head of the Parliament, known as the General National Congress, as a security force for the capital.

But the prime minister said Mr. Abusahmain, who visited him while he was held, was not involved, and he thanked him for his help in ensuring his freedom, The Associated Press reported.

Nevertheless the prime minister said the militias would not have acted against him without orders. “I do not think that more than 100 armed vehicles can seal off the hotel district to people without a command being given,” he said. “This bears the hallmarks of an attempted coup d’état against legitimacy.”

Despite the Libyan government’s apparent lack of authority and credibility, the International Criminal Court in The Hague on Friday showed enough trust in the country’s judicial system to drop its extradition request for Abdullah al-Senussi, who was the security chief for Colonel Qaddafi, as judges ruled that Libya could try Mr. Senussi at home.

In its decision, a three-judge panel said Libya had presented ample evidence that it was “willing and able genuinely to carry out” its own investigations and prosecute Mr. Senussi.

As a result, Mr. Senussi is likely to face a far longer list of serious charges at home, including killings and torture going back over decades when he was Colonel Qaddafi’s trusted operative. In The Hague, he was accused of crimes against humanity only during the early days of the uprising in 2011 that toppled the Qaddafi government.

Mr. Senussi’s lawyer, Ben Emmerson, said that the decision was shocking because the Libyan justice system was “in a state of collapse” and that the death penalty would be inevitable. The international court has no capital punishment.
288 2013-10-12 ALBANY — New York State and federal officials reached an agreement on Friday to reopen the Statue of Liberty this weekend amid the government shutdown.

Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said the state would pay $61,600 a day to pay for National Park Service personnel to reopen the popular destination in New York Harbor.

New York has 33 sites under the jurisdiction of the National Park Service, including the statue and nearby Ellis Island. They have been shut since Oct. 1 because of the partial federal shutdown.

The park service said on Thursday that it would allow parks to reopen as long as states picked up the cost.

The statue is normally open seven days a week.

The ferry service Statue Cruises, which in conjunction with the park service runs boats from Battery Park at the southern tip of Manhattan to the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island, serves about 7,000 to 10,000 passengers on an average day.
289 2013-10-12 Automobile crashes remain the leading cause of death for children 13 and younger, according to federal regulators. A large number of the fatalities involve children in car seats.

Deaths of children in car seats declined to 397 in 2011 — the last year data was available from the traffic safety agency — from 614 in 2002. But auto safety experts say the numbers could be much lower with easier-to-use car seats and better instructions on how to strap them into vehicles.

“The fact that somewhere around three-quarters of all seats are installed incorrectly means there’s something that is being missed,” said Dr. Benjamin Hoffman, an associate professor at Doernbecher Children’s Hospital in Portland, Ore. He has been a child passenger safety technician instructor since 1997. “People figure it’s a car seat, how hard can it be?”

Regulators have tried for years to simplify the process. Starting in 2000, the traffic safety agency phased in a latch system that would allow car seats to be secured to anchors in a vehicle’s seats, instead of looping a seat belt through part of the car seat. Automakers were required to provide anchors and fasteners at the top of the seats to make car seats easier to install.

The government also began publishing ratings on child seats based on simplicity and safety. Yet many parents still use only seat belts to secure the car seats, experts say.

One expert said that a car seat can move much farther forward during a collision if it is installed using only a seat belt and the top of the seat is not secured.

“There’s a high likelihood that the child’s head is going to move forward enough that they might hit the back of the seat in front of them, which is a setup for brain and spinal injuries,” said Dr. Alisa Baer, a New York pediatrician who heads a safety group called the Car Seat Lady.

Federal regulators are aware that car seats are often installed incorrectly and that consumers often do not know how specific seats match up with the equipment in different vehicles.

In September, the United States Transportation Department reported the 2011 death toll for children involved in auto crashes. “Parents and care givers can be the first line of defense by ensuring their children are correctly secured in the right seat for their size and age, and by buckling up themselves,” said Anthony R. Foxx, the transportation secretary.

The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration is currently working on a new program that would encourage automakers to recommend the most appropriate child seats for use in each of their models. Regulators urge parents to choose the type of seat — rear-facing, forward-facing or booster — that works best for their children, based on age and size.

But even with these recommendations, car seat manufacturers do not collaborate much with automakers.

“Vehicle manufacturers are very protective of what they are designing for future model years,” said Julie Vallese of the Juvenile Products Manufacturers Association, a trade group that represents 16 car seat makers in the United States.

An auto industry trade group said carmakers tried to design vehicles that worked with a variety of car seats. “Our members work to accommodate as wide a range of child restraint system designs as possible, given vehicle limitations,” said Wade Newton, a spokesman for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers.

To automakers, the differences among car seat models only complicate their task. “There needs to be some sort of consortium or some agreement on the side of the seat makers as to what it is they would do,” said Paul Seredynski, technical spokesman for Honda North America.

Amid the confusion, safety groups and local government agencies have stepped forward. One organization, Safe Kids Worldwide, supports more than 8,000 car seat inspection programs across the country.

Often it falls on local fire and police departments to assist. The program here in Montgomery County sponsors car seat checks as often as five days a week, with parents and grandparents often lining up to make sure their seats are correctly secured.

Emilie Crown, who runs the Montgomery County program, said the addition of anchors and top fasteners in various models had increased the complexity of installing a car seat.

“It was hard back in the mid-90s when I started this,” Ms. Crown said. “But now there are different things that are making car seat installations difficult.”

Josh Poltilove, a Baltimore resident, knows that all too well. He came to the seat check in his wife’s 2007 Toyota Corolla, and was carrying a Britax car seat for his year-old daughter.

“It’s very difficult and very complicated,” Mr. Poltilove said. “No one really understands how to do it.”

Pointing to the anchors in the back seat, he said: “There’s a latch over here, and a latch over here. I don’t really know. The last thing I want to do is install it incorrectly, and get in an accident and my daughter gets hurt.”

Even unrelated advances in safety technology have sometimes confused the issue. Inflatable seat belts, for example, are helpful in reducing injury to belted occupants, but can be difficult to use on a car seat. Many car seat manufacturers recommend not using the belts.

Safety advocates said the ever-changing variety of vehicles and car seat models made proper installation a moving target.

“You can’t just have one message that says this is the thing you can do,” said Lorrie Walker of Safe Kids Worldwide.

She urged parents to seek help from a car seat specialist at a safety program. “Work with a technician and try to find a seat that’s going to be easiest for you to use,” Ms. Walker said.

In the end, the seat remains a puzzle for most parents. Mark Silvia, 33, a Washington lawyer, recently spent two hours installing a black-and-blue Recaro ProRide car seat for his 8-month-old son.

The most surprising part, he said, was the force needed to secure the seat. “You really have to pull on the belts, and push down on the chair and make sure everything is tightened correctly.”

After all that, he still was not sure, so he paid a visit to the Montgomery County seat check, where he was congratulated for being one of the few to have installed the seat correctly.

“I didn’t know I did it right,” Mr. Silvia said.
290 2013-10-12 “There is chemistry and determination on this team,” Pinkel said. “A combination of both of those and high leadership skills affects the whole team. This team wants to win. They have taken that goal really personal, especially the seniors. Most of the seniors have been here for five years, and they went to bowls every year except last year, and they want to get back.”

Under Pinkel and the senior quarterback James Franklin, Missouri employs a fast-paced offense that spreads the field with tall wide receivers and 190-pound scatbacks. The basic play is the zone read, with the 230-pound Franklin, nicknamed Frank the Tank, running or handing off or throwing darts to the wings, where receivers run for 6 or 7 yards and grind out drives.

The SEC boasts four of the most productive quarterbacks in college football: Texas A&M’s Johnny Manziel, the Heisman Trophy winner in 2012; Alabama’s A J McCarron, who has won two national championships; Georgia’s Aaron Murray, who is poised to own most of the SEC records for passing; and Louisiana State’s Zach Mettenberger, who appears to be the best N.F.L. prospect of them all.

Franklin is on the verge of joining them. He has completed 67 percent of his passes in five games, with 13 touchdowns and 3 interceptions, while averaging 5.2 yards per carry. Franklin played with injuries (shoulder, knee, concussion) for most of 2012, but he is healthy this season and resembles a basketball point guard as he distributes the ball for a team averaging 47 points a game.

His wide receivers look like big guards and small forwards. The sophomore Dorial Green-Beckham, among the nation’s top high school recruits in 2012, is 6 feet 6 inches. Marcus Lucas is 6-5 and L’Damian Washington 6-4.

“My expectation level for him was he could be a great player,” Pinkel said of Franklin. “What happened to him last year, all the criticism, all the stuff that goes with being a starting quarterback and not winning, he is right now a lot mentally tougher than he was before.”

It should not be a surprise that Missouri looks capable of competing in the SEC. Pinkel can recruit talent. The Tigers have had six first-round N.F.L. picks since 2009, more than L.S.U. (5) and Georgia (4).

Jets defensive tackle Sheldon Richardson, one of the N.F.L.’s top rookies, went to Missouri, as did two of the Atlanta Falcons’ best defensive players, safety William Moore and linebacker Sean Weatherspoon. Blaine Gabbert, Jacksonville’s first-round pick in 2011, was a Missouri quarterback, and Philadelphia receiver Jeremy Maclin was a Tiger.

Georgia limps into the game without some playmakers. Running back Todd Gurley may miss a second straight game with an ankle injury. The backup running back Keith Marshall and wide receivers Justin Scott-Wesley and Michael Bennett were lost for the season during last Saturday’s 34-31 overtime win over Tennessee. Wide receiver Malcolm Mitchell was sidelined in a season-opening, 38-35 loss to Clemson.

The Bulldogs, however, still have the fifth-year senior Murray, the only SEC quarterback averaging more than 300 passing yards per game (306.8).

At his weekly news conference on Tuesday, Georgia Coach Mark Richt called Missouri “a very, very hot team” and described its performance against Vanderbilt as dominating.

“It was kind of scary, actually, to watch the tape of it,” Richt said. “They were so proficient on offense.”
291 2013-10-12 Infosys, an Indian outsourcing company based in Bangalore, said in an earnings report that it had set aside $35 million for a possible settlement in a visa fraud inquiry in Texas. For more than two years, federal authorities have been examining whether Infosys misused visas to bring temporary technology workers from India. In its report, the company said the Department of Homeland Security had “found errors in a significant percentage” of its hiring records.
292 2013-10-12 Gov. Jay Nixon on Friday halted what was to have been the first execution in the United States to use propofol, after threats from the European Union to limit exports of the drug if it was used to carry out the death penalty. Mr. Nixon ordered the Department of Corrections to come up with a different way to perform lethal injections without propofol, the leading anesthetic used in America’s hospitals and clinics. Most of the nation’s propofol comes from Europe. Drug makers have stopped selling potentially lethal drugs to prisons and corrections departments because they do not want them used in executions.
293 2013-10-12 A longtime zookeeper in Springfield was killed Friday by an elephant, a city spokeswoman said. The zookeeper, John Bradford, 62, was fatally injured when the elephant made a sudden movement inside the area at the Dickinson Park Zoo where the elephants are housed, said the spokeswoman, Cora Scott. The 41-year-old female elephant, named Patience, had been at the zoo since 1990. Patience had a history of aggression, Ms. Scott said.
294 2013-10-12 Nine teenagers were missing Friday from a ranch for troubled youths in Sierra County after workers were accused of beating and shackling them. A state police spokesman, Emmanuel Gutierrez, said the officers went to the Tierra Blanca High Country Youth Program after ranch officials were ordered to send the youths home or surrender them to the state, but found no one there. “We have aircraft, we have other law enforcement agencies to assist,” he said. The ranch operators and youths are believed to be somewhere on the 30,000-acre ranch.
295 2013-10-12 Pictures From the Week in Business
296 2013-10-12 The Vatican confirmed that it had withdrawn 6,000 coins commemorating Pope Francis’ first year as pope when it was discovered that “Jesus” had been misspelled....
297 2013-10-12 There aren’t many other places to turn, particularly where it costs nothing but your time. When I informally polled financial literacy advocates, financial planners and other experts if they knew of any other comprehensive retirement courses, they couldn’t come up with any, though one person mentioned the instructional videos at Khan Academy. (If you know of any classes, please share them in the comments section online).

Without any instruction manual, “people have to be their own chief financial officer,” said Annamaria Lusardi, a financial literacy advocate and economics professor at the George Washington University School of Business, who teaches a class on personal finance. “The large majority of the population lacks the knowledge of basic but fundamental concepts, from the power of interest compounding, to the effects of inflation, to the workings of risk diversification.”

This course may be a good place to start. Each of the 10 video lectures are about 45 minutes long, but they’re broken into bite-size segments, all of which were well produced and relatively engaging. As Professor Rauh explains each concept, animated visuals and colorful graphs appear alongside him, which helps make the concepts easier to grasp.

Each lecture includes a mix of financial theory and prescriptive advice, some of which people with a reasonable base of investment knowledge may already know: actively managed mutual funds aren’t worth the money, so buy index funds. Don’t time the market. Stocks don’t become less risky the longer you hold them.

But the illustrations that accompany the advice — how retiring in 2009, for instance, would have resulted in a nest egg 28 percent smaller than one resulting by retiring in 2012 — are instructive. “It’s not a rocket science idea, but people don’t see it without having it illustrated for them,” Professor Rauh said.

All of the lessons are rooted in what he calls “the economist’s view” of personal finance, which is built on the idea that there are no free lunches in financial markets, and that you can generate potentially higher returns only if you take substantial risk as well. It’s a message woven through his lectures. At times, it almost seems as if there should be a red blinking sign behind Professor Rauh that reads, “Proceed with caution. Stocks ahead!”

He clearly wants the lesson to linger long after you leave his virtual classroom and find yourself in a commission-based stockbroker’s office. “Too often, people just budget on the basis of an ‘expected return’ on their assets without thinking about the range of possible outcomes,” he explained.

He also explains why economists also believe that more people — not all, but more — should buy annuities. Not the high-priced complex contraptions sold to unwitting seniors, but the plain-vanilla immediate annuities, where you pay a giant pile of cash to an insurance company in exchange for a guaranteed stream of income for life.

He breaks all of this down in a lecture about making your money last, which offers the kind of practical advice that will be of particular interest to people in their late 50s and older who are wondering why annuities feel so expensive: as he points out, for $100,000, a 65-year-old woman can expect to receive about $450 a month. But he also explains another alternative that is about a tenth of the cost, known as longevity insurance. (You buy this annuity in advance and it begins paying income a decade or two later, when you’re in your 80s and may have spent all of your other savings). In the same lesson, you’ll be expected to sit through perhaps more than you may want to know about the inner workings of the mortality tables used to price annuities.

But as Professor Rauh points out, it’s a university-level class. There will be moments where you may feel a sudden urge to check your e-mail (like when the first mathematical equation with a sigma symbol appears on the screen). Indeed, a basic understanding of statistics is helpful, and you shouldn’t be easily intimidated by a simple spreadsheet.

The course ends with two lectures that explain the basics of pensions, the trouble erupting within our public pension system and how it affects taxpayers and municipal bondholders. Students are then tasked with a pretty serious group project: analyzing a state or local pension plan’s solvency — whether it’s the New York State Teachers’ Retirement System or Calpers, the big California public pension plan — and coming up with ways to make it stronger. The five teams with the most promising ideas will get to present their proposals in January, all expenses paid, at the Stanford Graduate School of Business to a panel of faculty and experts.

“We are sitting on the likelihood that there will have to be very large tax increases to pay for public employees’ pensions and that is a very important aspect of our portfolios as well — how much we will be taxed,” said Professor Rauh, who has written several research papers analyzing public pensions.

That’s likely to incite much debate in the forums, where most of the interaction among students will take place.

As much ground as this course covers — from asset allocation to the investing in different types of tax-deferred accounts — there’s still plenty of material that needs to be explained. Should I pay for advice? If so, what sort of adviser should I work with? How do I figure out my risk tolerance for stocks? Should I take Social Security now or later? And what should I make of all of these guaranteed return products that my brother-in-law keeps talking about?

At the end of some of the lessons, you may still be left with your own questions, but that may be Professor Rauh’s point: now, at least, you know what to ask. “There is some, ‘Do this, not that,’ ” he said. “But that doesn’t give them the complexity to operate in life.”
298 2013-10-12 GENEVA — The United Nations human rights chief, Navi Pillay, on Friday condemned Iraq’s execution of 42 prisoners over two days this week, denouncing such mass executions as “obscene and inhuman” and warning that they undermine efforts to reduce violence and achieve a more stable society.

Iraq’s justice system is “too deeply flawed to warrant even a limited use of the death penalty, let alone dozens of executions at a time,” Ms. Pillay said in a statement released in Geneva, repeating a view she has expressed on several occasions.

At least some of the latest executions, which were carried out on Wednesday and Thursday, breached international law because Iraq is unable to hold fair trials, Ms. Pillay’s spokesman, Rupert Colville, told reporters. And Iraq’s decision to proceed with executions on Thursday, which was World Day Against the Death Penalty, was “particularly perverse,” Ms. Pillay said.

Iraq’s Justice Ministry said the executed prisoners, who included a woman, had been convicted of “terrorist crimes, killing dozens of innocents in addition to other crimes aimed at destabilizing the country, causing chaos and spreading horror.”

Ms. Pillay also expressed concern about the “dramatic and shocking increase” in Iraq’s resort to the death penalty. This week’s executions brought to 140 the number of people executed so far this year, compared with 123 in 2012 and 18 in 2010, the United Nations reported. Ms. Pillay will be in direct contact with the Iraqi authorities in the coming days, Mr. Colville said, but in the meantime she urged the government to immediately halt executions and to commute the sentences of about 900 prisoners now held on death row.

United Nations human rights officials say the integrity of the judicial system has been tainted, citing the numerous reports of confessions obtained through torture and ill treatment, the weakness of the judiciary and trial procedures that fall far short of international standards. They also said some of the offenses for which prisoners are executed did not meet the threshold of “most serious crimes,” which international law sets for the use of the death penalty.
299 2013-10-12 On Oct. 9, 2002, the American stock market hit bottom after the 2001 recession and began a great bull market.

Exactly five years later, on Oct. 9, 2007, that bull market reached its peak. Within months, stocks around the world were tumbling into the worst bear market since the Great Depression.

A look at what happened over the two periods — from 2002 to 2007 and from 2007 to 2013 — shows a pattern of reversal. What was best during the first period was worst during the next one, and vice versa.

The American stock market, as measured by the MSCI index that covers all major United States stocks, doubled from 2002 to 2007. That was not horrible by any means. But every major market around the world did better, as can be seen in the accompanying charts. The MSCI index that includes all major stocks in the world except for American ones tripled.

After the 2007 peak, the declines were sharp and rapid for most markets until the bottom was reached on or close to March 9, 2009. As can be seen on the chart, American and world markets began to recover at about the same pace. But near the end of 2010, the United States began to do better than most markets, and that advantage accelerated in the summer of 2011.
300 2013-10-12 “We set our own boundaries,” she added. “We don’t want them set by the government or Google or Facebook."

Dr. Peel said the rise of new services like Snapchat, which features person-to-person messages that disappear after they are opened, showed how much people wanted more control over how their information was shared.

Still, the biggest Internet companies are pushing in the other direction, toward an expectation that more information is shown publicly. Google’s announcement came in an update to its terms of service that allows the company to include in ads adult users’ profile information and preferences, ratings and posts they have made on Google Plus and other Google services like search and YouTube.

When the new ad policy goes live on Nov. 11, Google will be able to show what the company calls shared endorsements on Google sites and across the Web, on the more than two million sites in Google’s display advertising network, which are viewed by an estimated one billion people. If a user follows a bakery on Google Plus or gives an album four stars on the Google Play music service, for instance, that person’s name, photo and endorsement could show up in ads for that bakery or album.

Such product endorsements, especially from friends and acquaintances, are a powerful lure to brands, replicating word-of-mouth marketing on a broad scale. Social advertising — which includes a wide range of ads, including endorsements — is a $9.5 billion business, according to eMarketer, accounting for 8 percent of digital ad spending.

Many users, though, have strong and skeptical feelings about their endorsements being used in ads without their explicit permission. Facebook learned this the hard way when it was sued in a class action by users who claimed the company had not adequately notified them about how it was using endorsements.

Google may find, too, that by simply following a company or commenting on a post, users might not have meant their actions as endorsements.

“The trick to any advertising like this is to avoid coming across as creepy to your user base and have them say, ‘I didn’t want anyone else to know that,’ ” said Zachary Reiss-Davis, an analyst at Forrester Research.

Google said it would give users the chance to opt out of being included in the new endorsements, and people under the age of 18 will automatically be excluded. If a Google Plus user has shared comments with a limited set of people, only people in that circle will see the personalized ads. Ratings and reviews on services like Google Plus Local are automatically public and can be used in ads, unless a user opts out of shared endorsements.

Google declined to specify exactly how it planned to use endorsements in ads. Currently, Google does not have an ad option incorporating more social data ready to be used by advertisers. Instead, the company said it wanted the ability to offer such ads in the future and was notifying users in advance.

Addressing potential privacy concerns in a notice to users posted on its site on Friday, Google said, “When it comes to shared endorsements in ads, you can control the use of your Profile name and photo.”

Though Google Plus has significantly fewer users than Facebook — 190 million users post on Google Plus and 390 million use it indirectly by sharing on other Google sites, compared with 1.2 billion users on Facebook — Google’s variety of services and broad ad network gives it a potentially wider reach.

Facebook has been aggressively marketing social endorsements, which it calls sponsored stories. For example, if you post that you love McDonald’s new Mighty Wings on the chain’s Facebook page, McDonald’s could pay Facebook to broadcast your kind words to all your friends.

Facebook does not allow its users to opt out of such ads, although users can limit how their actions on the social network are used in some other types of ads.

Twitter also enables advertisers to show public tweets in their ads, but requires advertisers to get the permission of the original author of a message before using it in an ad.

Although advertising irks some users — even while it helps support free services — social ads have proved particularly contentious.

Facebook recently settled the class-action lawsuit on its sponsored ads. In late August, it tried to impose a new privacy policy that would have given the company clearer rights to run social ads without a user’s explicit permission. After privacy groups complained, the Federal Trade Commission began an inquiry into the changes, prompting Facebook to suspend the process.

The change Facebook made Thursday was the equivalent of forbidding users from having an unlisted number in the phone book. But the company said that since Facebook users could be found in other ways, for example through posts by other members, it was discontinuing the option to be hidden. Facebook said the best way for users to protect their privacy was to adjust the settings for their profile and each individual post they make.

Google, which is under the supervision of the F.T.C. for a previous social networking privacy violation and faces privacy audits and fines for privacy misrepresentations, is taking pains to show that it has considered the privacy implications of the new ads. For instance, it will notify users of the change with banners on Google’s home page, in search results, in Google Plus notifications and elsewhere.

In Europe, where privacy is considered a personal right and lawmakers have been debating what data people can reasonably expect companies to use, early reaction was skeptical. Jan Philipp Albrecht, a German member of the European Parliament who is the main sponsor of legislation overhauling the bloc’s privacy standards, said lawmakers would consider Google’s change in the legislation.

“We need to go back to the basic rules for fair dealing and transparent decision making, rather than tricking the citizen,” he said.
301 2013-10-12 In its citation, the committee said the organization and the treaty under which it was founded in 1997 “have defined the use of chemical weapons as a taboo under international law.”

“Recent events in Syria, where chemical weapons have again been put to use, have underlined the need to enhance the efforts to do away with such weapons,” the citation said.

It was the second successive year that the panel, based in Oslo, had chosen an organization. The European Union won the 2012 prize.

Inspectors from the 189-member organization began arriving in Syria early this month after a chemical weapons attack killed hundreds of people on the outskirts of Damascus, the Syrian capital, on Aug. 21. Under a deal brokered by Russia and the United States, Syria agreed to join the treaty banning chemical weapons and become the 190th member of the organization.

The attack initially drew an American threat of military reprisal before Moscow and Washington reached a compromise arrangement to destroy Syria’s chemical weapons stocks under international supervision.

Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the former Soviet leader and the winner of the 1990 Nobel Peace Prize, hailed the award. “O.P.C.W. has worked tirelessly to rid the world of chemical weapons, and the organization is a deserved winner of the Nobel Peace Prize,” Mr. Gorbachev said in a statement issued by Green Cross International, an advocacy group based in Geneva that he founded, which has collaborated closely with the chemical weapons watchdog.

Angela Kane, the top United Nations disarmament official, who worked with the watchdog organization to lead an investigation into the Aug. 21 attack and other suspected uses of chemical weapons in Syria, said in a statement, “If he were alive today, Alfred Nobel would be gratified indeed that his committee has once again recognized disarmament for its great benefit to humanity.”

Thorbjorn Jagland, the former Norwegian prime minister who is chairman of the Nobel committee, said chemical weapons had been used by Hitler’s armies in their campaign of mass extermination and on many other occasions by states and terrorists. Mr. Jagland denied suggestions that the award represented a European-centered shift after last year’s award to the European Union. “It’s global,” he said.

The organization’s mission is to act as a watchdog in carrying out the Chemical Weapons Convention, which came into force in 1997 with four aims: to destroy all chemical weapons under international verification, to prevent the creation of new chemical weapons, to help countries protect themselves against chemical attack, and to foster international cooperation in the peaceful use of chemistry.

Since its creation, the organization has sent experts to carry out 5,000 inspections in 86 countries, working discreetly, almost shunning publicity, with the small number of signatory countries that acknowledge possessing chemical weapons. By far the biggest of these are Russia and the United States. Four countries besides Syria have not yet signed or ratified the treaty: Angola, Egypt, North Korea and South Sudan. Israel and Myanmar have signed the treaty, but their governments have not ratified it.

The Syria operation is unparalleled in its urgency and its hazards. The United Nations Security Council has set extremely tight deadlines for the mission, calling for the destruction of Syria’s arsenal of dangerous toxic substances by mid-2014.

Mr. Jagland said the award would remind nations still holding major stocks of chemical weapons to destroy them, “especially because they are demanding that others do the same, like Syria.”

“We now have the opportunity to get rid of an entire category of weapons of mass destruction,” he said. “That would be a great event in history if we could achieve that.”

The official Syrian state news agency offered no immediate comment on the award. But the reaction from many Syrians and others following the Syrian conflict was anger because they consider the chemical weapons issue a sideshow. Antigovernment protesters in Kafranbel, a town in northern Syria, created a drawing of bombs falling, smoke rising and corpses lying in blood, surrounding a blue-helmeted United Nations worker triumphantly holding a wrench over a dismantled chemical warhead.

In Moscow, Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov of Russia, the Syrian government’s main backer, insisted that the transfer of Syria’s chemical weapons to international control take place according to schedule. He also suggested that adversaries of Syria’s president, Bashar al-Assad, both at home and abroad, might try to subvert the initiative.

Ryan C. Crocker, a former United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria, now dean and executive professor at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University, said he was puzzled by the award.

“The O.P.C.W., wherever it goes in the chemical weapons effort in Syria, is not going to bring peace to Syria because chemical weapons are simply not a major factor in Assad’s ability to wage war, which in my view is why he’s willing to cooperate,” he said.

“Getting rid of chemical weapons anywhere is a good thing,” he said, “but to make this worthy of the Nobel Peace Prize, I just don’t get it.”
302 2013-10-13 MEYER--Melissa Saltman, beloved wife of Eugene Bradley Meyer, died October 2, 2013, at her home in Lincoln, Massachusetts at the age of 70. Born July 2, 1943, she was the daughter of the late Elias B. and Alice Saltman, of Newark, New Jersey. She ...
303 2013-10-13 Since Republicans in the House forced a government shutdown, many Americans have turned against the G.O.P. Even conservative business leaders, who were once the middle of the “big tent,” have been pushed aside by the prevailing Tea Party faction.

What will come of those trends? Do the current unpopularity of Congress and the infighting in the Republican Party create an opening for independent or third-party candidates in the 2014 midterms?
304 2013-10-13 Orlando Cruz, the first openly gay fighter in professional boxing, failed in his bid to gain the World Boxing Organization featherweight title when he was knocked out by Orlando Salido in the seventh round in Las Vegas.
305 2013-10-13 Emily Rose Winograd, a daughter of Sandra Slaton Winograd and Dr. Mark Winograd of Paradise Valley, Ariz., was married Saturday evening to Alex Gregory Leonard, a son of Dr. Debra A. Spicehandler and Dr. Daniel A. Leonard of Chappaqua, N.Y. Rabbi Maynard Bell officiated at the Montelucia Resort and Spa in Scottsdale, Ariz.

The bride, 24, and groom, 26, met at Cornell University, from which they graduated.

The bride is to begin working in February as a public defender at the Legal Aid Society in New York. She received a law degree magna cum laude from New York University. Her father is a neurologist in Glendale, Ariz. Her mother is a partner in the Scottsdale law firm Slaton & Sannes.

The groom works in Newark as a law clerk for William H. Walls, a senior United States District Judge. The groom received a law degree from Columbia. His mother is an infectious disease specialist at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y., and Laurence Hospital Center in Bronxville, N.Y. His father is a cardiologist with the Mount Kisco Medical Group.
306 2013-10-13 Emily Robert Ross and Mark Howard Hatch-Miller were married Saturday evening at the Roundhouse at Beacon Falls, a hotel in Beacon, N.Y. Rabbi Lisa Rubin officiated, with Cantor Angela Buchdahl assisting.

The bride, 31, is the assistant provost at the School of Visual Arts in Manhattan, where she works on strategic planning, institutional research and academic affairs. She graduated from Vassar and received a law degree from the University of California Hastings College of Law in San Francisco.

She is a daughter of Margaret Ellen Ross and David A. Ross of Beacon. The bride’s father is the chairman of the M.F.A. Art Practice program at the School of Visual Arts in Manhattan. From 1998 to 2001, he was the director of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art; from 1991-98, he was the director of the Whitney Museum of American Art in Manhattan. Her mother is a Democratic candidate for the Beacon City Council. From 2010-11, she was the chairwoman of the Mayor’s Advisory Committee in Beacon.

The groom, also 31, is an associate in the Manhattan office of the Houston law firm Susman Godfrey. From 2011-12, he was a law clerk to Judge Reena Raggi of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Brooklyn. He graduated from Wesleyan University and received a law degree from Yale.

He is a son of Anita R. Hatch-Miller and Jeffrey M. Hatch-Miller of Scottsdale, Ariz. The groom’s father, who was a Republican member of the Arizona House of Representatives from 1999 to 2003, now works in Phoenix as the executive director of the Arizona Lottery.
307 2013-10-13 Emily Elizabeth Jones, the daughter of Cynthia Lance-Jones and Paul M. Jones Jr. of Pittsburgh, is to be married Sunday to Jed Wang Bonner, a son of Echo Wang Bonner and Sebastian P. Bonner, both of New York. The Rev. C. Anderson James, a Presbyterian minister, is to officiate at the home of the groom’s father.

The couple met at Skidmore College, from which both graduated.

Ms. Jones, 27, will keep her name. She is an architectural designer at Xten Architecture, a Los Angeles firm. She received a master’s degree in architecture in May from Columbia University.

The bride’s mother is the assistant dean for medical-student research and an associate professor of neurobiology at the University of Pittsburgh Medical School. Her father is the managing editor for publications to students, alumni and donors at Carnegie Mellon University.

Mr. Bonner, also 27, is the assistant general counsel at Steadfast Investment Properties, a real estate development company in Irvine, Calif. He received a law degree from Brooklyn Law School. His mother is the deputy administrator of the street homelessness solutions office of the New York Department of Homeless Services. His father teaches English at International House Language School New York, a residential program and cultural exchange for graduate students and scholars from around the world.
308 2013-10-13 But now, new techniques in computational voice analysis are promising to help machines identify when smiley-sounding phrases like Mr. Jobs’s belie frustration and grief within. Although the software is still in its early phases, developers like Beyond Verbal, a start-up in Tel Aviv, are offering the nascent technology as a deeper approach for call centers and other customer services that seek to read and respond to consumers’ emotions in real time. The company says its software can detect 400 variations of different moods.

“It’s not what you say. It’s how you say it,” says Dan Emodi, vice president for marketing at Beyond Verbal. “Listening to these patterns, we can allow machines for the first time to understand the emotional side of our communications.”

The more invasive audio mining also has the potential to unnerve some consumers, who might squirm at the idea of an unknown operator getting an instant entree into their psyche.

Industry analysts say companies that adopt emotion detection should be transparent with consumers, alerting them to the uses and analysis of their data beyond the standard disclosure to which we’ve become inured: “This call may be recorded for quality assurance purposes.”

“It’s a potential privacy issue, capturing a consumer, mining that conversation,” says Donna Fluss, the president of DMG Consulting, a market research firm focused on the call center industry. “What are they doing with that information?”

Another question is whether emotion detection is any more valid than novelties like handwriting analysis. After all, only Steve Jobs could say how he really felt during that interview.

“It seems to me that the biggest risk of this technology is not that it violates people’s privacy, but that companies might believe in it and use it to make judgments about customers or potential employees,” says George Loewenstein, a professor of economics and psychology at Carnegie Mellon University. “That could end up being used to make arbitrary and potentially discriminatory decisions.”

FOR more than a decade, call centers have generally recorded every service request, complaint, diatribe, account closure and nuisance call from consumers. In the early days of these recordings, companies archived the calls and reviewed a handful of them after the fact, examining the conversation patterns and giving agents feedback on their performance.

But as software and server power have improved, call centers are using a more advanced approach called “word spotting” to examine each call. In fact, the business of analyzing words and their sentiments, called speech analytics, is a $214 million market, according to estimates from DMG Consulting, and used in finance, insurance, health, travel, retailing and telecommunications.

Call centers, for instance, can program their speech engines to search for specific words or phrases — like “This is the third time I have called in!” or “I’ve been a loyal customer for 10 years!” — which tend to be emotionally charged, indicating mounting consumer dissatisfaction.

“We record and mine every single call, every single word and phrase,” says Daniel Ziv, vice president for voice-of-the-customer analytics at Verint, a leading speech analytics company. “One of my favorites is ‘You people!’ or ‘This is ridiculous!’ It’s unlikely that people are using ‘ridiculous’ in a positive, playful way.”

Another call center analytics company, called CallMiner, classifies consumers’ spoken words into categories like “dissatisfaction” or “escalation.” Speech analytics engines can also be used to search consumer calls for unexpected events or trends, like a sudden problem with product delivery or using gift cards.

“If you can identify the problem, get to the root cause and fix it, you can save millions of dollars,” says Ryan Hollenbeck, Verint’s senior vice president for marketing.

Beyond Verbal is proposing a different tactic with algorithms that ignore emotional trigger words like “ridiculous” in favor of voice qualities like tone and frequency.

Company executives say their technique is based on the work of Israeli researchers in the 1990s who studied how babies understand and respond to the moods of adult speech before understanding actual language. The researchers developed their mood-detection algorithms by analyzing the emotions of 70,000 people in 30 languages. Company executives say the software can detect not only callers’ primary and secondary moods, but also their attitudes and underlying personalities.

“It helps agents decide how to respond. If there’s a customer-is-always-right type, you want to give them proper appreciation and respect,” Mr. Emodi says. “If the caller is seeking friendship, the agent should speak in a friendly, direct way.”

He and other company executives envision a variety of commercial uses for emotion detection. Consumers might use it to analyze and modulate their own voices, as could public speakers. People who wish to test out the accuracy of the emotion meter for themselves can check out the mood recognition app on the company’s site.

Executives say a few companies are working on call-center applications for the software and they expect the first of those apps to be ready for use around the end of this year. The idea is to use it not just to identify and mollify dissatisfied callers, but also to help agents distinguish between frustrated callers who wish to solve a problem and are worth spending more time on from angry callers who want merely to vent.

Yuval Mor, the chief executive of Beyond Verbal, says the program can also pinpoint and influence how consumers make decisions. He calls it deciphering “the human emotional genome.”

“If this person is an innovator, you want to offer the latest and greatest product,” Mr. Mor says. “If this person is a more conservative person, you don’t want to offer the latest and greatest, but something tried and true.”

But people’s voices change over time and depending on different situations, says Professor Loewenstein of Carnegie Mellon. So categorizing a consumer based on one phone call could be commercially irrelevant over the long-term.

“They are just reading your voice at one moment in time. You are not going to read someone’s personality from their voice,” Professor Loewenstein says. “In my view, we are very far from that being a reality.”

Even without a mood detection algorithm, you can classify that emotion: skepticism.
309 2013-10-13 WISCONSIN 35, N’WESTERN 6 Melvin Gordon ran for a 71-yard touchdown, and Chris Borland led a fierce Wisconsin defense that figured out No. 19 Northwestern’s offense.

The host Badgers (4-2, 2-1 Big Ten) had seven sacks. Northwestern (4-2, 0-2) forced three turnovers to increase its season total to 17.

L.S.U. 17, FLORIDA 6 Jeremy Hill rushed for 121 yards, and Louisiana State’s defense did the rest to give the 10th-ranked Tigers a victory at home over No. 17 Florida.

L.S.U. (6-1, 3-1 SEC) kept an opponent out of the end zone for the first time this season. Tyler Murphy passed for 115 yards for the Gators (4-2, 3-1).

ALABAMA 48, KENTUCKY 7 T. J. Yeldon and Kenyan Drake each ran for two touchdowns to help top-ranked Alabama blow out Kentucky.

The Crimson Tide (6-0, 3-0 SEC) scored on their last eight possessions and outgained the Wildcats (1-5, 0-3), 668-170.

CLEMSON 24, B.C. 14 Tajh Boyd ran for the go-ahead touchdown in the fourth quarter, and defensive end Vic Beasley followed with a score on a fumble recovery to keep No. 3 Clemson, hosting Boston College, undefeated.

The Tigers (6-0, 4-0 Atlantic Coast Conference) were trailing, 14-10, in the final period when Boyd led a drive that ended with his 6-yard touchdown rush. When Boston College got the ball back, Chase Rettig fumbled, and Beasley sealed the loss for the Eagles (3-3, 1-2).

BAYLOR 35, KANSAS STATE 25 Bryce Petty threw for 342 yards and 3 touchdowns, and No. 15 Baylor held on to beat host Kansas State.

The Bears (5-0, 2-0 Big 12) ran their winning streak to nine games. The Wildcats (2-4, 0-3) took a 25-21 lead in the third quarter, but an interception allowed the Bears to escape.

N. ILLINOIS 27, AKRON 20 Jordan Lynch threw for two touchdowns and ran for another as No. 23 Northern Illinois extended its home winning streak to 23 games with a Mid-American Conference victory over Akron.

Lynch was 16 of 35 for 220 yards passing and ran for 83 more yards for the Huskies (6-0, 2-0). Jawan Chisholm scored on a pair of 1-yard first-half runs for Akron (1-6, 0-3).

S. CAROLINA 52, ARKANSAS 7 Connor Shaw threw for 219 yards and accounted for four touchdowns as No. 14 South Carolina dominated host Arkansas.

Mike Davis added 128 yards rushing for the Gamecocks (5-1, 3-1 SEC). The loss was the fourth straight for Arkansas (3-4, 0-3).

TEXAS TECH 42, IOWA ST. 35 The backup quarterback Davis Webb threw for 3 touchdowns and 415 yards in place of the injured Baker Mayfield to lead No. 20 Texas Tech over visiting Iowa State. Webb was 35 for 56 with an interception for Texas Tech (6-0, 3-0 Big 12).

The Cyclones (1-4, 0-2) got a 95-yard kickoff return for a score from Jarvis West.

VIRGINIA TECH 19, PITTSBURGH 9 Logan Thomas threw an early touchdown pass, and No. 24 Virginia Tech sacked visiting Pittsburgh’s Tom Savage eight times. The Hokies (6-1, 3-0 A.C.C.) ended a four-game losing streak against the Panthers (3-2, 2-2).
310 2013-10-13 She turned down at least a million dollars in endorsements so she could compete in college while working toward a bachelor’s degree in a field that she has no clue how to divide.

“I have a double major,” she said, joking. “Undecided and undeclared.”

The workload is more challenging and exhausting than Franklin had imagined. With a laugh, she said, “I’ve learned that Berkeley is very hard.”

She added: “Classes are definitely kicking me in the butt. But I love it.”

It is no easier in the pool for Franklin, who won four gold medals as a 17-year-old at the 2012 London Olympics. One morning last week, Franklin and her teammates took a 30-minute spin class, then a run to the pool, then a workout of all-out sprints.

“I’m getting my butt beat every day at practice,” she said. “I realize how much I have to learn.”

Swimming for nothing, hard knocks for free. It is the deal Franklin, who grew up in Colorado, signed up for when she accepted an athletic scholarship instead of a professional contract.

“Best decision I have ever made,” she said.

It is worth the homesickness she has experienced, being apart from her parents, Dick and D. A., and her dog, Ruger.

“That’s been hard for me to realize that I may not ever live with my parents again,” she said.

The ache goes both ways. Franklin’s father rarely missed her swim meets, and her mother never did. Their schedules have opened like a ribbon of highway through the heartland, but they have not hit the road yet to attend her first college meets.

“We want to give her space right now,” D. A. Franklin said in a phone interview.

When Franklin arrived here in August, her parents’ main fear, allayed in a meeting with campus security, was that her high profile might put her in harm’s way. The Cal coaching staff’s main concern was to give her as normal a college experience as possible given that her baggage includes five Olympic medals, nearly 372,000 Twitter followers and one unofficial acting credit with Owen Wilson and Vince Vaughn. (Her cameo in their film “The Internship” was cut.)

Franklin had her own nagging worry: how was she, an only child who had commandeered the entire second floor of her parents’ house outside Denver, possibly going to adapt to sharing a bedroom, a bathroom and every square inch in between?

Of all the adjustments she has had to make, it proved the easiest. On Twitter, Franklin makes it sound as if she hit the roommate jackpot when she was assigned the swimmer Kristen Vredeveld, a freestyler from Tennessee.

“My roommate is the best,” Franklin said.

Mealtimes, she said, are when she is asked most often for an autograph or picture. When Vredeveld sees someone approaching, she will chirp, “Teeth check!” It is Franklin’s cue to smile wider so Vredeveld can make sure no food is lodged between her teeth.

Franklin was in her dorm room last Sunday night with her boyfriend, Daniel Butler, a pitcher at the University of San Francisco who is also from Colorado, and Vredeveld when the floor shuddered and the walls shook.

“We looked at each other like, ‘Uh, was that an earthquake?’ ” Franklin said. “Then we heard everyone coming out of their rooms and screaming in the hallway, and we were like, ‘Yeaaah!’ ”

By California standards, the quake, centered roughly two miles from campus with a magnitude of 3.1, was small. But it was a big deal to Franklin, who had never experienced one.

Her world has been gently rocked by other events that seem small to her but have shocked others. In her first home meet, Oct. 4 against Washington State, Franklin finished second in the 400-yard individual medley to her classmate Celina Li, who had also defeated her in a competition at Cal Poly San Luis Obispo last month on her way to being crowned Queen of the Pool.

It did not matter that Li is a world-class competitor in the individual medley, which is not Franklin’s specialty. After the Washington State meet, Franklin said, she was out with a group that included her teammates Elizabeth Pelton and Li, and someone said to Pelton: “I heard Missy Franklin lost today. Is it true?”

Li, who is from nearby Pleasanton, Calif., said, “When people come up to me and say, ‘You beat Missy Franklin,’ I don’t know how to react because she’s my teammate, she’s my friend.” She added, “I look up to Missy in so many ways already.”

Franklin said: “It’s hard because sometimes people don’t understand that I don’t do this to win every single race and also that I’m not going to win every single race. That’s all a part of this experience, learning and trying new events.”

The Bears, ranked third in the country behind Florida and Georgia, have a roster that is diving-well deep. It includes Pelton, a sophomore who set an American record in the 200-yard backstroke en route to winning the N.C.A.A. title as a freshman, and Rachel Bootsma, another sophomore, who won the 100 backstroke by clocking the second-best time in short-course yards history behind the former Cal standout Natalie Coughlin (Franklin is fourth).

Franklin owns the American record in the 100-meter backstroke and the world record in the 200. She excels at long-course meters and less so in short-course yards, which involve extra turns, because walls are her Kryptonite.

“I was surprised at the amount of people that I had coming up to me,” Franklin said, “and saying: ‘College swimming, isn’t that going to be easy for you? Aren’t you going to kill everyone?’ I would look at them and say, I’m like the third- or fourth-slowest backstroker on my team.”

Cal Coach Teri McKeever, who in 2012 guided the United States women’s squad to 14 Olympic medals, and her associate head coach, Kristen Cunnane, promote an attitude of appreciation. When the going gets tough, they encourage their swimmers to write down 10 things for which they are grateful.

Franklin could have been reading her list when she said: “It’s been a wonderful experience to race people like Celina and Liz, to be pushed and to push others. I think that’s something you can sometimes take for granted, having those people there to make us better and also realizing we can make people better around us.”
311 2013-10-13 BAMAKO, Mali — A boat carrying hundreds of passengers along the Niger River in central Mali capsized, and nearly 200 people remained unaccounted for hours later, the mayor of a nearby town said Saturday.

Twenty bodies had been recovered by midday, said the mayor of the town, Konna. At least 400 passengers were believed to have been on board the vessel on Friday as it traveled north to Timbuktu, but only 210 survivors had been counted so far, said the mayor, Sory Diakite.

One passenger, Ibrahim Yattara, 29, said he and his pregnant wife were sleeping on the boat late Friday when they awoke to a loud noise.

“It was then that the ship collapsed because it was overloaded with cargo,” Mr. Yattara said. “With the excess weight, it broke into two pieces. I started to swim and looked for my wife, but after a while the boat was completely underwater.”

Each time a body is retrieved, Mr. Yattara said, he checks to see whether it is his missing wife. His voice broke as he spoke.

Crews were still searching the river for bodies late Saturday afternoon, said Ibrahim Maiga, who runs Radio Korondougou in Konna.

Large boats carry hundreds of people on the Niger River at this time of year, and the journey can take up to two nights and two days to reach the fabled northern town of Timbuktu. Boats are often overloaded, and some carry two levels of passengers.
312 2013-10-13 Penn State dropped varsity hockey in 1947, but it returned as a club sport in 1971. The club team won seven national championships and had only two losing seasons. During that time, more than a dozen proposals were made to upgrade the sport to Division I.

“There was always some roadblock, the most obvious one being the cost,” said the associate athletic director Joe Battista, who played club hockey at Penn State and later coached the team, the Icers, for 19 years. “Without the Pegula gift, this wouldn’t be happening.”

Terry Pegula, a 1973 graduate, sold East Resources, his oil and gas company, for $4.7 billion in May 2010. Four months later, he and his wife, Kim, donated $88 million to build a hockey arena and start a Division I program here. The Pegulas also allocated $14 million to establish 18 scholarships.

Penn State hired Gadowsky, the former coach at Princeton and Alaska-Fairbanks, before the 2011-12 season, the Nittany Lions’ last in the American Club Hockey Association. Last season, Penn State moved up to Division I, competed as an independent and finished 13-14-0, posting road victories over Michigan State, Ohio State and Wisconsin.

“Last year exceeded even the coaching staff’s expectations,” Gadowsky said. “That told me we were heading in the right direction in how we were building a foundation for this program on and off the ice.”

The 5,782-seat Pegula Ice Arena, which has 14 luxury suites and 525 club seats, was designed to maximize Penn State’s home-ice advantage. During the planning stage, Pegula told Battista that one of his goals was to build “the most rocking arena in college hockey.” The low, flat ceiling lined with sheet metal magnifies the crowd noise.

“I want it to be so loud in there, it sounds like a little child inside a tin can with a hammer,” said Pegula, who also owns the N.H.L.’s Buffalo Sabres.

A sharply angled 1,000-seat student section is behind the west goal. Its 22 rows of bleachers stretch from ice level to the top of the building; the band sits in the middle.

Pegula addressed the players in the locker room before the game, after which, Gadowsky said, “they were ready to tear through metal.”

The freshman forward David Goodwin said: “That speech was incredible. He’s such a humble man, but he has incredible passion for hockey and passion for Penn State.” Three minutes 12 seconds into the game, Penn State defenseman Nate Jensen, one of four players on the roster from the last club team, scored the first goal, a shot from the blue line past Army goaltender Rob Tadazak.

The score remained 1-0 through two periods, as Penn State spent most of its time killing penalties. For the game, it took 11 penalties to Army’s three.

A short-handed goal by Curtis Loik 3:24 into the third period gave Penn State breathing room, and Goodwin’s goal at 12:27 started the celebration in full.

The Nittany Lions begin their 20-game schedule in the new Big Ten hockey conference Dec. 6 at Wisconsin. They will host their first conference games Jan. 12 and 13 against Minnesota. The winner of the first Big Ten tournament in March will earn an automatic bid to the N.C.A.A. tournament.

Although Penn State’s top six scorers from last season returned, none of them have more than two years of varsity experience. Forward Michael McDonagh is the only senior on the team. The Nittany Lions will face formidable Big Ten competition, including Wisconsin and Minnesota, who are ranked in the top five in the U.S. College Hockey Online preseason poll.

Those challenges await. For now, the team can revel in its new building and the success of opening night.

Jensen said the expectation of the arena’s opening and the resulting emotions made playing difficult at times.

“I’m kind of relieved to get the first game out of the way,” he said.

Goodwin, who also acknowledged having some jitters early in the game, had a different thought.

“I wish we could do it again,” he said.
313 2013-10-13 “A statistic I’ve seen that makes sense to me is that 70 percent of executives’ stock option gains are attributable to the market’s movement as a whole,” said Nell Minow, a principal at GMI Ratings, a corporate governance analytics company. “We are basically paying C.E.O.’s for floating on their backs when we should be paying them to win races.”

The fault is not simply with executives themselves, of course. A failure to weigh a variety of performance metrics that can warn when a company isn’t creating long-term shareholder value is the responsibility of the company’s board.

Shareholders, too, have to hold themselves accountable for these failures, Ms. Minow said. Their support for pay plans that reward executives for just showing up or for being on hand while their stock is rising only reinforces a questionable reward system.

“This is something where we have to blame ourselves,” she said.

With that in mind, Mark Van Clieaf, an organizational consultant and principal at Organizational Capital Partners, is urging companies’ boards to use other measures to assess whether their executives are truly creating value for shareholders or destroying it. The best measure, he says, is a company’s net returns on its invested capital. That is, how much it is generating on its capital investments — plants and equipment, say — minus the costs of that capital, whether debt or equity.

“Management should be providing value that exceeds its cost of capital,” Mr. Van Clieaf said. “A company with a negative return on capital can’t generate enough free cash flow to pay dividends and enhance the value of the firm over time.”

In spite of this relatively simple concept, Mr. Van Clieaf said, few companies appear to use net returns on invested capital, also known as economic profit or loss, when determining executive pay. This is something of a disconnect, given that these returns are a crucial measure of how effectively a company is deploying its capital into projects that pay off, and are certainly figures that chief executives and their finance colleagues watch closely. Moreover, returns on capital are a useful measure across industries.

Neither do shareholders seem to be demanding such a measure when their companies’ boards devise executive pay. “Investors are looking at total shareholder return, but that’s not the be-all, end-all metric,” Mr. Van Clieaf said. “So just because a company had a positive say-on-pay vote doesn’t mean the system is working well.”

The trouble with relying on total shareholder returns is that these figures can rise even after a company has shown an economic loss — a negative return on capital — over an extended period. A focus on stock price, therefore, can mask a longer-term decline in a company’s financial footing.

AN extreme example of a company that had returns on invested capital that were below its cost of capital is WorldCom, the telecommunications darling that collapsed in 2002. According to “Foundations of Economic Value Added,” a book by James L. Grant, from 1993 to 2000 return on invested capital at WorldCom ranged from 2.23 percent to a high of 9.5 percent, but the company’s cost of capital was more than 10 percent throughout this time. For much of that time period, WorldCom’s stock price was rising.

WorldCom, of course, was in a category by itself. But the message is clear: a stock price does not always reflect real economic value. Mr. Van Clieaf labels these kinds of companies “value myths” because on the surface they are producing gains for shareholders but underneath they are generating negative returns on their investments in plants, equipment, acquisitions or other items.

To illustrate this point, Organizational Capital Partners generated a list of eight large companies that for each of the five years through December 2012 generated a negative net return on invested capital. The firm also looked at other metrics, like revenue growth or decline, total shareholder returns and cumulative executive pay over the period.

The analysis also includes the results of the latest shareholder votes on each company’s pay practices. These so-called say-on-pay votes are not binding on the company but represent shareholders’ views on the pay programs that are in place. Most of the companies received broad support for their pay practices from most of the shareholders voting at the most recent annual meetings. Only three of the eight — ConocoPhillips, Dow Chemical and Tenet Healthcare — encountered objections from more than one-quarter of their shareholders voting on the executive pay plans.

The list of eight companies that generated a negative net return on invested capital, ranked by the amount of executive pay, is above. Most of the companies are in basic industries like energy, chemicals and industrial products. Five of the companies had shareholder returns that beat the Standard & Poor’s 500’s returns over the five-year period. These were, in descending order, Tenet, Dow Chemical, Anadarko Petroleum, Johnson Controls and ConocoPhillips.

The remaining three companies — Apache, Devon Energy and Textron — had negative shareholder returns for the period.

I shared the Organizational Capital Partners findings with all eight companies. Some, like ConocoPhillips, Dow Chemical and Tenet Healthcare, did not respond to e-mail requests. Others, like Devon Energy, Anadarko Petroleum, Johnson Controls and Textron, declined to comment, referring me to proxy filings that outline their compensation practices.

At Apache, the board is focused on getting pay for performance right and has been engaging its shareholders, said Sarah B. Teslik, its senior vice president for policy and governance. Investors like how much of the company’s executive compensation is tied to measurable corporate goals, she said, and the fact that the company has substantially reduced the pay that Apache executives actually realize, meaning it is not earned if the performance goals are not met.

Bob Dye, Apache’s spokesman, added that the company’s share price had been hurt in recent years by investor concern over its large operations in Egypt.

Given the shareholder support that most of these companies received in their most recent say-on-pay votes, it is clear that investors seem content with their pay practices. To Mr. Van Clieaf, this is a sign that investors are not digging sufficiently into the numbers to determine whether companies are creating long-term shareholder value.

Monitoring these returns is important work for investors, he said, because companies that do not earn positive returns on their invested capital may not be able to pay dividends to shareholders. And those dividends make up one of the bigger income streams that pension managers look for to meet their obligations to retirees.

HOW did some of the larger private money managers vote on these companies’ pay practices at their most recent annual meetings?

The proxy record of Fidelity Investments, Vanguard and T. Rowe Price on many of these companies shows broad support for management. For example, Fidelity’s Large Cap Stock Fund voted in support of Johnson Controls’ pay practices and the Fidelity Energy Central Fund supported Anadarko Petroleum’s executive pay program.

T. Rowe Price, another large mutual fund company, did not vote in lockstep with management, however. At the most recent meeting of Apache shareholders, for example, its New Era Fund voted against the company’s pay plan.

Finally, Vanguard’s votes by its huge S.& P. 500 index fund, which must own all those shares that are in the index, were supportive of all eight companies’ pay for performance plans.

Spokesmen for all three fund companies said they would not discuss how their funds voted on specific companies. Vincent Loporchio, a spokesman for Fidelity, says it generally votes to ratify companies’ pay practices unless the compensation seems unaligned with shareholder interests. When a company’s proposal doesn’t conform to the proxy voting guidelines, Fidelity may contact the company to discuss the situation and potential solutions, he said. It might vote in favor of a proposal if management commits to changes in governance and compensation practices, Mr. Loporchio said.

Fidelity voted against 24 percent of all equity plan proposals for the year ending June 30, 2013, he said.

At T. Rowe Price, votes on pay practices are made on a case-by-case basis, using a proprietary and quantitative scorecard initially, a spokesman, Bill Benintende, said. “We vote ‘against’ in cases where there is an unacceptable number of problematic pay elements,” he said, including poor linkage over time between executive pay and the company’s performance and profitability, or objectionable features like excessive retirement plans, golden parachutes or perquisites.

Glenn Booraem, principal and fund controller at Vanguard, said the fund company recognized that assessing pay based solely on total shareholder return was inadequate. “One of the places where we are more concerned than others is where the entirety of comp is tied to absolute stock price performance of the particular company,” he said. Each year, Vanguard has discussions with around 500 companies out of the 4,000 or so in its portfolios to discuss governance or compensation problems the fund company has identified. Many of these discussions result in changes that do not require voting against a particular pay package or other shareholder proposal, Mr. Booraem said.

Still, Ms. Minow says these and other investors have a great lever on pay that they are not using. “Investors are just now beginning to vote against companies’ pay plans,” she said. But voting against pay was not enough.

“You have got to tie together a vote against a pay plan with a vote against the compensation committee of the board,” she said. “Unless we focus on the comp committees, nothing is going to change.”
314 2013-10-13 Clockwise from top left, Lisa Price, president of Carol’s Daughter, a beauty products company; Marjorie Kaplan, Group president at Animal Planet; Amy Schulman, general counsel at Pfizer; and Doreen Lorenzo, president of Quirky. Gender inequality at work is “still an issue,” Ms. Lorenzo says. “It’s not better. There’s still a glass ceiling.” When I started the Corner Office column more than four years and about 250 interviews ago, I set several guidelines for the conversations I would have with top executives about leadership. I was going to pursue, for example, a diverse mix of voices, in terms of age, race, nationality and the kind of organizations they led. I would also interview a lot of women, though I planned never to ask them any gender-related questions. My thinking was simply to interview leaders who happened to be women, rather than focus on the fact that they were women leaders. But a few things have happened. The vigorous debates started by Sheryl Sandberg, with her “Lean In” book, and by Anne-Marie Slaughter, with her provocative article, “Why Women Still Can’t Have It All” in The Atlantic, suggest that we are not even close to being done with the gender conversation (though Janet Yellen’s nomination to lead the Fed is certainly a noteworthy milestone). I’ve also kept in touch with many of the women I’ve interviewed over the years, and I’ve heard from them a growing frustration with the stubbornly low number of women in executive suites. Given that the arguments surrounding work-life balance have been so fully voiced, I decided to take a different tack, and add more insights to the discussion of leadership challenges that women face at work, apart from the juggling act. So I went back for a second conversation with four women I had interviewed for Corner Office, to ask them to share stories about headwinds they have navigated over the years, and advice they would offer other women about succeeding at work.

Amy Schulman, named president of Pfizer Nutrition in 2010, increased revenue 15 percent, to $2.1 billion, over the following year, when the division was sold to Nestl for $11.85 billion. What are some patterns you’ve noticed over the years about women at work, and things they could be doing better to advance their careers? One thing that happens at work is that women tend to hoard favors as if they were airline miles — you know, the hundreds of thousands of airplane miles that we’re saving for when we really need them. But “when we really need them” may never come. The trips are not going to happen, and we’ll be left with 800,000 airline miles. There’s a parallel at work. You need to spend political capital — be unafraid to introduce people, compliment somebody when it’s deserved and stand up for something you really believe in, rather than just go with the flow. I don’t mean being a perennial troublemaker, but it’s about having conviction and courage. Spend that political capital you earn by being intellectually credible, by being a fighter for the people on your team when appropriate, and by arguing for principles that matter. Those are qualities that give you credit. If you’re waiting for the perfect moment to spend that capital, you’re going to be sidelined your whole career waiting to just kind of enter the ring. Women can and should do a better job of helping one another to be in that transactional forum, and to get over the anxiety that we’re going to be found wanting on the wrong side of that equation. We’re undervaluing the role that we can play in the success of other people and the organization. So don’t be afraid to spend some of that political capital. You have to be well prepared, you have to be smart, you have to be on time, you have to be responsive, you have to be respectful, you have to have principles. But once you have all those things and you’ve built a track record, don’t wait for the perfect day. Other things you have observed? There are some things around style that I’ve seen. I’m not a formal person, but I don’t find myself responding very well when there’s an assumption that there will be a connection by virtue of the fact that we share a gender. If somebody is trying to capitalize on the fact that I have said publicly that I support the advancement of women, and they use that as a proxy to gain access to me, I find that annoying. The less subtle way of saying it is that trading on gender, in my mind, is impermissible as a man or a woman. Assuming that you’re entitled to something by virtue of your gender strikes me as not fair or right. Having said that, there are clearly implicit biases and assumptions that follow you by virtue of your gender and your race. Workplaces need to be aware of those and do something to counterbalance those as institutions. Leaders need to make sure that the organizations we create, run and drive are receptive to that diversity of voices, in both tone and substance. You spent two decades working in law firms before you joined Pfizer. Any observations about the challenges women face that are specific to law firms? In my early years as a young lawyer, much of what you’re doing falls into the model of traditional female success, which is the “dutiful daughter.” It’s an expression from Adrienne Rich, and it means essentially “the good girl behind the scenes” — you’re not transgressing the roles that are expected of you. A good law associate is organized, methodical, writes things that other people sign, prepares draft arguments that other people deliver and is in a kind of perpetual apprenticeship role. That’s often why law firms and other institutions say, “Gee, we have all these great women in the pipeline,” but then they don’t become partner. Part of that is about whether the women themselves are able to gracefully transition from being the dutiful daughter to a partner. But do the organizations reward and recognize the full range of behaviors? So women and the companies they work for both have to help with that transition? It has to be both. One problem is that we say to women that you have to claim your voice. Don’t make statements that sound like questions. Don’t be afraid to speak up. Own the room. Speak with confidence. But to the extent that doesn’t come naturally, women, in an effort to do precisely what they’ve been told, sometimes will over-occupy the space. Think of all the things that make for a great leader and a great colleague — collegiality, a certain amount of self-effacement, a commitment to the team and the organization — but then we’re also busy telling young women: Don’t put yourself second. Don’t subordinate yourself. Speak up. If you’re not heard, speak again. We give really mixed messages, and we don’t teach women exactly how to do that because it’s not very graceful when somebody’s trying to claim a room in a meeting. What we have to do is teach strategies, because here’s the thing about unwritten languages: whoever owns the language wins the conversation. We need to teach women the difference between a native tongue and a language. But institutions, conversely, need to be slightly more forgiving if you don’t get the jargon right all the time. That’s where the sweet spot of inclusion comes in. You touched on the point of confidence earlier. Can you elaborate? For many guys, this is simpler because they’re not as over-invested in the question of “Do I belong?” Everything is not a test. If you’re not viewing interactions as a litmus test for whether you belong, you’re going to act better. On the other hand, if you’re looking all the time for that kind of validation, you’re either going to be self-conscious or insecure, and neither of those is a recipe for success. What you want is the kind of inherent confidence that leads to grace. You want to be around people who are having fun and enjoying what they’re doing.

Lisa Price, the founder of Carol’s Daughter, led the company to its current 100 employees, selling beauty products in 1,600 stores. How do you think about the issue of women and leadership in the context of your own career? What makes my story a little bit different is that I’m the founder of a company. So you start out by yourself and then, if you’re successful and fortunate, your business grows to the point where you have people coming on board who have different experience and expertise. So I was sort of placed at the top of the mountain, if you will, and then felt that there were things I needed to learn and develop to feel comfortable sitting there. I used to sit at the table but not necessarily at the head of the table, because I felt there were things I needed to learn, and I wanted to be part of the team, and sit with the team. I don’t do that anymore. Now I sit at the head of the table. But I don’t consciously say, “When I walk in the room, I’m going to make sure I’m at the head.” I just sort of gravitated there naturally, and that’s where I sit, because what I’ve learned is that, regardless of whatever little skill sets here and there that I might not know really well, I do know this brand better than anybody else. And that’s the authority that I have, that’s the voice that I have to be, and that’s who they need me to be. Because the only person who can teach them the history and the DNA and the passion and the love and the blood and the sweat and the tears is me. Other ways you grew more confident? The other thing I learned was that sometimes I would play it safe and not say too much in a group setting, for fear of maybe saying the wrong thing or because I wanted to have more private conversations. But what I realized was that people I didn’t talk to regularly — one-on-one or day-to-day — didn’t know what my vision was, or they thought I was really quiet, and that I wasn’t as involved. So I practiced just being more vocal, and making more of a point to go into everybody’s office at some point, sitting down and connecting and talking about what’s going on, so that they know what I want to do. People often wonder about the differences between how men and women lead. What are your thoughts on that? I have seen a difference, from having male bosses and female bosses, and then running a company and having male and female executives. What I find interesting is that it’s not across the board, as in, men are this way and women are that way. I’ve had women who can be very curt — “This is how we’re going to do it.” And then I’ve seen men who can be very nurturing. So I’ve seen both sides of it. What I have noticed is that men can have a real serious debate about something and sound like they’re just going at it, and you think they’re going to walk out of the room angry at each other. And they go get a sandwich, and they’re fine. They don’t take it to heart. Women don’t do that. If we’re going at it, there might not be conversation for a couple of days, until the dust settles. Anything else you’ve noticed in terms of the difference between men and women at work? One of the mistakes I’ve definitely seen women make is crying. And I’m an emotional person. I understand where the tears come from. And being a founder of a beauty company, I sometimes can have the luxury to get teary when I’m speaking passionately about something. However, when you’re speaking to your boss or your manager about an issue, and you’re feeling overwhelmed, crying is not a good thing to do, because you don’t necessarily know how it’s being perceived by the person to whom you’re speaking. I know from personal experience that the stigma never goes away. And you are enforcing a stereotype, unfortunately, that women are weak, and they’re not as tough as men. The other thing that can happen is that if your boss is a woman, you might think you can cry in front of her because she’s a woman, and assume that she’s going to understand. Maybe something is happening at home — you have a family member who’s ill, or you’re stressed — and you have a moment, and you break down in their office. That’s O.K. But when it comes to a work-related issue, and you start to cry, it just comes across as really weak and not good. When someone’s done that in front of me, I feel that there’s a phoniness in it. I think it’s because I am a woman. So it’s a little bit of “I know how this works. Don’t do this. I know this game.” Women know how tears affect certain people. Very few men will cry to get something that they want. There are some really snaky guys, but it’s not something that a man will typically do. So how have you handled this when people have done this with you? As much as it angered me, there was one person who was crying, and I didn’t want to be heartless and just jump all over them. So I would talk to them about it later: “Please do not ever do that again. If you’re that emotional about it, wait to speak, so that doesn’t happen.” I’m O.K. with people having a shaky voice. Sometimes that happens. You’re having a difficult conversation, and your voice might get quivery. But don’t cry. Just wait to have the conversation. You don’t want to be known as that person, because then people are afraid to have a difficult conversation with you because they think, “Oh, she might cry.”

Doreen Lorenzo, now at Quirky, expanded Frog Design, a privately held innovation consulting firm, from a staff of 200 in 2006 to 1,200 global employees in 11 locations globally. How do you answer the question of whether women lead differently than men? I think women by their nature have better instincts and better intuition. I also think women are better at team dynamics, because they don’t have to be the alpha all the time. There’s a whole set of soft skills with people dynamics, and women have a really good sense of how to get people to cooperate and work together. I’ve worked with plenty of truly collaborative men, but I’ve also encountered those who weren’t, and in those instances, they tended to take on an alpha-male dynamic. That’s where you see the jockeying. I find that if men feel they can’t be the alpha, that’s when the fist-pounding and the chest-thumping and all sorts of stuff happens. You can watch it escalate so that people get their way, and that’s a form of bullying. A lot of that goes on in the workplace today. How did you overcome any gender-related roadblocks in your career? I ignored everything. I never wanted gender to be a reason I did anything or was successful, and so I ignored it all. I just plowed ahead. But I look at our daughters and women, and they’re still struggling, and I’ve decided I’ve got to talk about this more because it’s still an issue. It’s not better. There’s still a glass ceiling. Why do you think that is? In certain instances, there’s still this mentality of an old-boy network. For them, money and power defines them. It’s who plays golf with you. Business is still very much done that way. You’re still fighting uphill odds. Other thoughts on why things don’t seem to change? Girls are taught to be cooperative more than boys. I don’t think girls get the tools they need in school to get that self-assuredness. In high school, girls want to be part of the tribe, so they’re not stepping out of line. The boys are often the jocks, with much more bravado. We still don’t encourage girls to speak up, to use their voice, to use their instinct, to not be afraid, and teach them how to combat the bullying. How do you trust your inner soul? We don’t address that at all in school. You have to believe in yourself, but I think many women don’t. And you watch some men just take advantage of that. You said you ignored any gender-related headwinds during your career. Were there moments that were hard to ignore? In some situations, with certain types of men, they try to undermine you with jabs. What I’ve seen, especially with some young women, is they’ll fold. They can get very emotional. When I was 35, a woman told me, “Don’t let your emotions get in the way.” That was really good advice, because if you take emotion out of it, you begin to look at everything objectively. You begin to see the remarks for what they really are, and the people for who they are. There’s a lot of corporate game-playing that goes on. What kind of jabs did you hear? “You’re really creative. Do you understand math?” “You’re more of a touchy-feely person. What do you know about business?” Another was: “You’ve never done this before. I don’t know that you can pull this off.” Hard not to take that kind of stuff personally. I think in my 20s, I couldn’t have done that. In my 30s, I could say to myself: “That’s interesting. Do I actually believe that about myself?” Then you can be objective about the comment. I’m not perfect at everything. I know there are faults, but let’s be constructive about what needs to get fixed versus what doesn’t need to be fixed. You ran Frog Design, the innovation consulting firm, for many years until joining Quirky recently as president. What did you do at Frog to set the tone? We have women’s groups within Frog. They’ll meet after work, and they’ll pick a topic. They might talk about how you overcome certain situations, and give people encouragement and real-life stories so they can feel like there’s strength in numbers. There’s a lot of talking about being able to have their voices heard in a room where there are a lot of strong males. If you’re treated like a secretary, what can you do? What are the steps you can take? Part of it is saying: “We’re going to end the conversation now until you listen to me. If you can’t listen to different opinions, we shouldn’t be having this meeting.” You have control. You have power. Don’t be afraid to use it. I think what happens with women is that it’s unnerving to rock the boat. But if you say that the conversation is over, then you stop people in their tracks, because nobody wants to be thought of like that. Stop and make people think. The people at Frog are more enlightened, but some people can fall into old habits. You have to stop and make people think. At Frog, you spent a lot of time flying around the world to meet with corporate clients. Let’s say you walk into a big boardroom, and everyone at the table is a guy. How do you handle it if you’re picking up bad signals? Some people will start picking up their phones and not paying attention to you. That’s very common. What you have to do is just engage with the person at the top immediately. If you look somebody in the eye, it’s really hard for them to dart side-to-side. So I’ll use an icebreaker — about their family, what they like to do outside of work — and I’ll engage them on that level. It’s not catching them off-guard; it’s engaging them at a human level as opposed to the bravado side that often comes with work.

Group president of the Animal Planet, Science and Velocity networks Marjorie Kaplan repositioned Animal Planet with hits like “River Monsters” and “Whale Wars” that helped it become a Top 20 cable channel with men. Any moments early in your career that surprised you in terms of how you were treated by men in the workplace? I was in a brand-new job, working on a consulting team. We walked into a large conference room to meet with the client. There was a big conference table, with six guys around it. Smoking was still allowed back then, and half of them were smoking cigars. My boss walked in ahead of me and I was far behind him, so there wasn’t an opportunity for me to walk up to the guys around the table and introduce myself. The moment was lost, and the meeting was starting. But I was never introduced. I was probably 25 or 26, and my boss was significantly older. I think they all thought I was his girlfriend. I sat in that meeting the whole time with these guys smoking cigars, practically with their feet on the table. That was so humiliating. He didn’t do it maliciously, but it was kind of casual sexism. I resolved that wasn’t going to happen again, and I have told people that you need to be comfortable challenging those kinds of assumptions. What are some other assumptions you’ve noticed? I’ve had what I think were very common experiences for women as I was coming up, which is the assumption that a guy who walks into a room wearing a suit was smart and able, and a woman was “to be determined.” People in the room had to be disabused of their assumption that the man would be capable and intelligent, and it had to be proven that the woman was as able. It was just kind of a feeling that you had all the time. Any patterns you’ve seen in the workplace that suggest differences between how men and women handle certain situations? I’ve seen both men and women who are uncomfortable with conflict, but I think it’s particularly true of women. It can be a challenge for women in a work environment because sometimes you don’t agree. Sometimes people behave in a way that makes you uncomfortable. You have to review people, and that’s challenging if you don’t like conflict. I’ve seen circumstances where the kind of feedback that a woman will give is quite different than the feedback the man understands. I’ve had circumstances myself where I’ve felt like I was being very clear about what I expected, and then I suddenly realized, wait a minute, this guy is not getting what I’m saying. Why do you think that is? Gender stereotypes are always challenging, but I do think that in general women are more “other focused.” That’s a real value in business, and without a doubt it’s been one of the reasons for the success we’ve had. Certainly I am other-focused. I’m very attuned to body language and getting what people are saying even when it’s not verbalized. The flip side is that you often have to be really direct with guys — if you’re not saying it to them, they’re not hearing it. Management is the hardest job. Everybody, myself included, needs coaching on managing. Again, I’m generalizing, but because women are thoughtful about people, sometimes the process of managing and providing constructive feedback becomes very lengthy. There’s lots of conversation about who the person is as a person and what’s really troubling them. It can go very deep into their lives. While that can be helpful sometimes, at other times it’s useful to just be clear — this is the expectation, this is a job, and here’s what you need to be able to do. It’s not always helpful to understand the person so well that you know why they’re not doing the job. If you tend to be very aware of other people’s feelings and motivations, there’s a lot of identifying and understanding and discussion about that. Sometimes you can spend a lot of psychic and emotional energy on something, when it might be easier to just say: “Look, here’s the line. You’ve got to make it across this line or you’re not going to be able to stay here.” Any other surprising moments you’ve had later in your career that stemmed from the fact that you’re a woman? I’ve had people say to me, “I wonder if you’re too nice.” Some of that is because I’m a woman. What I have said in response is: “I am nice. And I want to be nice. There’s not such a thing as ‘too nice.’ But my expectations are high, and people do rise to my expectations. That’s how I manage. I don’t manage based on fear. I manage based on expectations.” It’s easy for women to be read as too nice, too kind. But it’s important to be able to make that choice. One of the values that I — as a person and as a woman — bring to the workplace is that I want to be nice at work. Niceness and kindness are not the opposite of ambition and drive. It is powerful to choose to be nice. Going back to that first incident you described, when you weren’t introduced at the meeting: What is your advice to women about handling a situation like that? First of all, if it happens to you, remember it, because you will have the opportunity to make sure it doesn’t happen to somebody else. The other is to arm yourself before it happens, so that you’re ready to walk into that room and insist on the introduction. When it happened to me, I was floored, because I did not grow up in a world like that. Knowing that it could happen, be ready for it. Make sure you’re introduced. Do what a guy would do automatically. The third thing is to address it after the fact. It’s O.K. to go to the person who should have introduced you and say: “I did not feel comfortable about this. I’d like to make sure this doesn’t happen again.”
315 2013-10-13 The rear suspension is a completely new multilink design that Lexus says increases rear grip. The front hip point (effectively, the distance between your hip and the road) was lowered 20 millimeters, which doesn’t sound like much but helps deliver the feeling that you’re settling down into a sports car rather than heaving yourself over the gunwale of the ol’ family hauler.

The redesigned exterior, drawn taut behind the scowl of the new grille, definitely means business. Styling is subjective, but I’d say this is the best-looking car in its class.

And after chucking it around the road course at Rockingham Raceway in North Carolina, I’d venture that the revised suspension is benchmarked to the front-runners, too. Even on the marbled, damp surface of the Rockingham road course, a rear-wheel-drive IS 350 F-Sport felt happy sliding through the corners and howling down the Nascar straight.

You know that within Lexus, this particular car was someone’s vision of the ideal IS.

But there were rival factions, evidently, because the IS exhibits completely different personalities depending on the model. (Adding an extra dash of complication, the convertible IS-C and high-performance IS-F return for 2014 but were not redesigned.)

Which brings me to the IS 250.

While the new IS was so thoroughly overhauled that they even improved the rigidity of the No. 1 bushing of the lower front suspension arm (it’s doubled, so you know), a rather important element remains unchanged: the engines. Both V-6s are carry-overs, introduced eight years ago at the last redesign.

That’s not too much of an issue for the rear-drive IS 350, which gains a new 8-speed automatic transmission to augment its healthy 306 horsepower, 3.5-liter V-6 (E.P.A.-rated at 19 m.p.g. in town and 28 highway; 19/26 in the all-wheel-drive version). The IS 250 and all-wheel-drive versions of the 250 and 350 continue to use a 6-speed automatic.

But the IS 250 was underpowered in the first place. For 2014, it makes 204 horsepower, which is 11 fewer than the original 2001 IS 300 (whose power was rated using slightly different test standards). In terms of overall power-to-weight ratio, the IS 250 is outgunned by exotic machinery like the Kia Sedona minivan. E.P.A. fuel economy is 21/30 for the rear-drive IS 250, 20/27 for the all-wheel version.

I’m sure there’s a sheaf of market research that says the IS 250 is aligned with the base-model Cadillac ATS (4 cylinders, 202 horsepower) and BMW 320i (4 cylinders and 180 turbocharged BMW horsepower). But those cars are the shameless price leaders of their lineups.

At $36,860, the rear-drive IS 250 is $3,185 more expensive than a 320i, a car that is also quicker and gets a combined four more m.p.g. It’s only $745 less expensive than the rip-roaring 328-horsepower Infiniti Q50.

In these shark-infested waters, the IS 250 is a seal with a nosebleed. Even squeezing out 204 horsepower requires premium fuel.

And yet, according to Lexus, customers are buying the IS 250 at a two-to-one clip compared with the IS 350, which starts at $40,375 ($42,610 for all-wheel drive). So what’s going on here?

I posed that question to my friend Ashlee Anderson, a Californian who knows a thing or two about the IS — she owns an IS 300 and a thunderous V-8-powered IS-F.

“I believe the IS 250 is for those who want the Lexus brand or look, but they’re not specifically swayed by speed or performance,” she said.

So her conclusion matches my own suspicion: it’s for people who want a sport sedan, but not really.

A charitable reading of the situation suggests that Lexus did such a great job with the rest of the car that customers are inclined to overlook the IS 250’s performance deficit in light of its other attributes — looks, interior, handling, the ineffable allure of that stylized “L” on the grille.

The problem is, the redesign creates a dilemma for the IS 250, as the gulf between its performance-sedan image and the actual goods under the hood is now even wider. Basically, the elements that make the new IS more fun — everything that Lexus changed for the better — might also make it too hard-core for the crowd that doesn’t particularly care about horsepower and zero to 60 times.

Which is to say, people who buy IS 250s.

I predict that Lexus, wily player that it is, has new power plants in the works but knows that right now, in the glow of its newness, the IS doesn’t need them to sell. That’s true: August sales were up 87 percent over the year-earlier period.

Until the most popular IS gets repowered by, say, a healthy turbocharged 4-cylinder, we have the IS 350 and IS 250: a job well done and a job incomplete.
316 2013-10-13 There are mishaps that no rider, regardless of how skilled, could avoid. But if that rider knew exactly what kind of accident it was going to be, an engineer could build the ideal helmet to withstand it.

That’s impossible, of course, and it’s a major design challenge. Conventional motorcycle helmets, which absorb collision energy by deforming a crushable portion in a predictable manner, can be engineered to mitigate injuries resulting from only a certain range of impact forces.

There’s a problem when an impact is not strong enough for the absorption — typically at the helmet shell liner made of expanded polystyrene foam — to take place and the shock is passed to the skull. Although less likely to be fatal, those shocks can still cause serious concussions.

Early this year, 6D Helmets of Brea, Calif., began offering helmets for off-road riders that it engineered to provide protection in hard and soft collisions. It does this by suspending a liner designed for low-energy impacts inside a helmet built for hard impacts. The helmets, which the company says are certified by the Transportation Department and legal for on-road use, may soon share their technology with helmets for all motor sports, and perhaps contact sports.

The 6D design suspends a foam layer inside the one covered by the helmet’s hard outer shell. Between the two foam layers are rubbery elastomers, which look like ear plugs and act like shock absorbers; an impact too low to crush the foam is still enough to move the shock absorbers.

There is another advantage to using this elastomer suspension. It lets the inner liner twist, reducing how hard a rider’s head will rotate in a crash. That matters because even low-speed rotational blows can be damaging.
317 2013-10-13 While New York has become an increasingly inhospitable place to incubate a career as an artist, it has become an ever easier place to experience and consume the arts....
318 2013-10-13 The next year, in 2008, when Ms. Brien’s mother, Meg, found out she had brain cancer, Ms. Brien began making frequent weekend trips to Santa Monica from New York to help care for her.

It was on one of those trips in 2009 that she and Mr. de Castro happened upon each other in a stairwell of a Santa Monica parking garage. As she rushed by, “I screamed her name,” said Mr. de Castro, now also 29.

He was unaware that she was sick with grief over the imminent loss of her mother; Ms. Brien was unaware that he was heartbroken that his father was slipping away (he would die in 2011). Each could have used a sympathetic ear. But in that moment, neither mentioned their private travails, Ms. Brien said. “We said: ‘Oh, hi. Nice to see you.’ And walked away.”

Mr. de Castro said: “Whether for love or for support, it was as if fate was trying to put us together in the stairwell that afternoon.”

Fate gave them a second chance in September 2010, by which time her mother had died and the family home had been sold. Ms. Brien decided to move back to Santa Monica permanently. She also opted to leave the film world and open a juice shop, Pressed Juicery, with two partners.

“It wasn’t like we were thinking about each other this whole time since our childhoods while we were in other relationships,” Ms. Brien said. She shared the news of the house sale with Mr. de Castro on Facebook. “I thought, ‘Who else will the loss of this house mean something to?’ He wrote me back right away.” They arranged to meet one evening as she closed the juice shop.

“As I was driving there I was extremely nervous but also really energized, as if something powerful was pulling me forward and something really big was about to happen,” Mr. de Castro said.

He was right. After returning from the store, Ms. Brien said: “I called my best friend and said, ‘I think this is it. You go through life and go on dates and you’re looking for something. I feel this is it.’ ”

His appeal grew when she learned that Mr. de Castro habitually made dinner for his mother and her friends. “He turned out to be the family cook and waiter, and he ate standing up and made the women laugh.” Ms. Brien said. “A lot of people just want to go out and party, and here was this guy who loved his family.” So when he invited her to one of these dinners, she jumped at the chance. “I thought, I want to be a part of this,” she said.

Both agreed that the connection was immediate and went deeper than food and laughs. “I think grief gave them a common bond and brought them together,” said Hayden Slater, a partner in Pressed Juicery, of which there are now 12 stores.

Fate continued to play a big role in the couple’s narrative. Three months after they began dating, Ms. Brien became pregnant, something she said she had an “intuitive sense” was meant to be. Nonetheless, she was afraid to tell her father. “I thought, uh, oh, what will he think?” she said. “But he said: ‘Having kids is the best thing that ever happened to me. Your mom was your age when she had you, and I think you’re probably more mature than she was.’ Al’s mom said, ‘You want to have this baby, so if you own that, no one will say differently.’ ”

They took comfort in their families’ support, and moved in together, but privately “they were really terrified,” said Stephanie Danler, a college friend. “They were thinking: ‘We’re not prepared to be parents.’ But they did it. Fate is the scaffolding of their relationship: the house, finding each other after so many years. All the rest is the actions they took, the choices they made.”

The decision to wed came after an accident. In the summer of 2012 their son, Luca, then 10 months old, swallowed a piece of tile that cut his esophagus; he spent eight days in the intensive-care unit. At one point, Mr. de Castro looked at Ms. Brien and said, “You and I and Luca are a family, and I want it to be official.”

She didn’t expect a wedding any time soon after the accident, but Mr. de Castro secretly arranged to meet with her father. “Alejandro came over,” Mr. Brien said. “He confessed how much he loved Carly. Then he said, ‘But we forgot to connect the most important dot.’ And he asked permission to marry her.” As he granted that permission, he recalled thinking that Mr. de Castro was raised right.

The proposal came while they were making lasagna noodles from scratch and decorating a Christmas tree in their Santa Monica home. “We were covered in flour,” he recalled, but the room was cozy. The windows were frosty. The Nat King Cole Christmas album was playing and their son was asleep. But when he told her he had “a small early Christmas present” and to close her eyes, she reacted with anger. They had promised: no Christmas presents. When she opened her eyes, he was down on his knee with the ring.

“It felt like it was a choice for Al to commit himself to me and to go out and buy a ring,” she said. “It’s much more and much better than, ‘Oh, we’re getting married because we’re having a baby.’ ”

On Oct. 5, Ms. Brien and Mr. de Castro were wed at the Santa Lucia Preserve in Carmel, Calif., in a grove of redwoods, some of which were hundreds of feet tall. Luca, now 2 and dressed in a suit, was the ring bearer. After Elaine Williams, a friend who had been ordained online by the First Nation Ministry, pronounced the couple husband and wife, the 160 wedding guests moved to a lawn to graze on predinner hors d’oeuvres while herds of deer grazed in the field behind them.

Thinking about the strength of the match, Krista Smith, an editor at Vanity Fair who had been a friend of Ms. Brien’s mother, said, “When you’ve experienced a profound tragedy, there’s a certain language that you speak, you’re a member of a certain club and can get to the heart of the matter.”

Mr. Mazursky, who was wearing a fedora and a black T-shirt printed like a tuxedo, added levity and a touch of reality: “As a couple they seem loving. How do I know? I’ve got a wife of 61 years, 30 of which have been fabulous.”
319 2013-10-13 WE LIKE YOU SO MUCH AND WANT TO KNOW YOU BETTER

I’ve honestly never been a Dave Eggers fan, but this story is amazing, and the magazine was spot on in publishing it. This is one of the jobs of real literature, to sound the alarm while society rushes gleefully toward the latest utopia — to show its dark side and to give us pause. I wrote this before finishing the story, because the young protagonist’s experience at the vaunted tech-company paradise was so rapidly becoming a nightmarish violation of her personhood that I had to take a break. ROBERT PFEIFFER, Richmond, Va., posted on nytimes.com

Please, no fiction in The New York Times. We rely on you for amazingly well written, meticulously reported news, feature articles, business updates and what’s happening in the world. There are way too many sources for fiction, but fewer and fewer reliable sources for nonfiction. SUSAN MELCHER, Mount Vernon, Me., posted on nytimes.com

At least judging by the excerpt, Dave Eggers strays so far away from verisimilitude that his book barely even feels like satire. Instead, Eggers is preaching to a group of people that has already made up its collective mind that social media is dangerous and who love to one-up each other when talking about where the slippery slope might lead. . . . There are problems with Silicon Valley and with technology — don’t get me wrong. But they’re insidious rather than overt: executives compete to find products that people want to use, rather than trying to impress upon the public the need to share, or the idea that doing so is so socially beneficial that you’re a bad person if you don’t do it. FELIX SALMON, Reuters

A few years ago I would not have even thought of broadcasting my opinions after reading something like this, but here I am “zinging” my thoughts on it for all to see! The more we pause and reflect, the better, and for that I am grateful to the author. STEPHEN LIBEN, Montreal, posted on nytimes.com

CAN A GAY, CATHOLIC LEFTIST ACTUALLY SQUELCH CORRUPTION IN SICILY?

For all its socioeconomic woes and provincial sclerosis, Sicily is not “the Greece of Italy.” But the roots of Sicily’s ills run deep. Spanish Bourbon rule in southern Italy created a culture of administrative mismanagement, economic exploitation and endemic corruption. In 1943, the U.S. Army’s Operation Husky enlisted Mafiosi to pave the way for the invasion of Sicily — reviving the criminal contagion that had been largely eradicated in the 1920s. Since 1993, however, Italy has captured and incarcerated a veritable Who’s Who of Mafia vermin. Still, Rosario Crocetta would do well to heed Machiavelli: “There is nothing more difficult to carry out, nor more doubtful of success, nor more dangerous to handle, than to initiate a new order of things.” ROSARIO A. IACONIS, Mineola, N.Y.

I wish Crocetta every success, but history and this article do not give me much confidence. Crocetta is, if nothing else, courageous. But he comes across as caught up in his ego, his rancor, melodramas and vendettas, his sexuality, his religion, his poetry. In that sense he is no different from Berlusconi or Beppe Grillo. Italians don’t elect capable, sober people like Angela Merkel. They want flamboyant, glittering showmen. ANTONIO CASELLA, Lathlain, Australia, posted on nytimes.com
320 2013-10-13 The scruffy neighborhood of Fishtown in Philadelphia is having a creative renaissance, coming on the heels of Stephen Starr and Joe Carroll’s recent opening of the barbecue restaurant Fette Sau. The southwest end of Frankford Avenue is becoming an artisanal avenue, with design shops, a small publishing press, restaurants and coffeehouses moving in to this former manufacturing district. Neighborhood pride is palpable; graceful metal sculptures line one stretch of sidewalk, and a wooden sign in a community garden reads “Welcome to Fishtown: Stop and smell the roses.” First Fridays, the free open gallery nights along Frankford Avenue, are also drawing newcomers.

This new bar and retail store has an impressive 700 varieties of craft beer for takeout, all of which can be enjoyed at the long, copper-topped bar. It is staffed by self-described “beer geeks” who are only too happy to expound on their favorite brews. Bar food includes a grilled Philly-style Cuban sandwich — two kinds of prosciutto, roasted peppers, onions, house-pickled cucumbers — and bourbon walnuts. Bottle Bar also features a local artists’ gallery; the exhibition changes monthly with a First Friday kickoff celebrating the spotlighted artist.

In a triangular brick building across from Palmer Park, this bright new tea and coffee emporium lists its daily offerings on two blackboards: “Steap” has a rotating selection of loose teas and daily brews (papaya wild pineapple and coco mate were recent highlights), while “Grind” gives the coffee roundup (from drip to espresso beverages and iced options).

Two years ago, the jewelry maker Sarah Lewis was a craft pioneer in the neighborhood when she opened this showroom and studio. She designs romantic jewelry for the “modern free spirit” (recent collections include long chains, geometric shapes and turquoise) and adds clothing, bags and other items from her international travels that fit that aesthetic like block-print skirts and layered metal-link necklaces from Turkey.

Why do out-of-towners make a special trip to this industrial-chic hair and skin salon? Ayurvedic organic facials, custom razor cuts, massages: attentive service by experienced, friendly hands. In-house products include “mermaid waves”: distilled water, coconut and jojoba oil, sea salt and alcohol (a k a beach hair in a bottle). You’ll emerge from the high-ceilinged, exposed-brick space feeling as cool as its punk-rock stylists.

Heather Karlie has an impeccable eye, sharpened by a decade spent stalking estate sales, auctions and flea markets for antique picture frames, furniture and housewares, all for top dealers in New York. Her year-old vintage design boutique, focusing on 20th-century modern finds, is chockablock with colorful treasures: a bright yellow dining room set, filigreed metal peacocks, and a pair of enamel lamps with colonial figures dancing across the lamp bases. The building dates from the 1700s. “I grew up right here, 30 years ago,” said Ms. Karlie, whose home is behind the shop.
321 2013-10-13 Pemba Gyalje Sherpa was part of the group of climbers who, in early August 2008, began the last leg of their summit of K2, a mountain in the heart of the Karakoram Range in northern Pakistan. At 28,251 feet, K2 is second in height only to Everest, but its peak is even steeper, colder and more desolate than its Himalayan sister.

On that journey, 11 climbers died, 9 of them after an ice pillar broke the fixed ropes they needed to retreat down an icy chute called the Bottleneck. Mr. Sherpa rescued two of the climbers who were trapped above 26,000 feet, where oxygen is scarce. “The Summit,” a documentary released this month in the United States, retells the story of the disaster and the rescue effort.

When Mr. Sherpa returned to his home in Katmandu, Nepal, following the climb, he said his family and friends pleaded with him to stop mountaineering. “But climbing and guiding is my life,” he said, “and I will never stop.” The next season, he was back leading expeditions of the Himalayas. Below are edited excerpts from a conversation with Mr. Sherpa.

A. Today, the term Sherpa is often used for any guide hired for mountaineering expeditions in the Himalayas, regardless of ethnicity. But the meaning of Sherpa is “eastern people,” and they are an ethnic group from the most mountainous region of Nepal, high in the Himalayas. My ancestors played the important role to early Western explorers, serving as guides at the extreme altitudes of the peaks and passes in the region, particularly Mount Everest.

Sherpa are highly regarded as mountaineers, but before Western explorers, we didn’t climb mountains as sport. We trekked and herded cattle, but didn’t climb. As a child, I hiked 300 meters up every day from my village to school, and yes, for some parts of the path I had to scramble up a mountain. But I climbed my first mountain, 6,100 meters, when I was 16 years old.

Mountains, to us, are holy. Before climbing I always perform puja, a spiritual and religious ceremony when the monk makes an offering of food. It brings good fortune and a safe journey on the mountains.

What’s in your bag on a climb? 



Equipment such as an ice ax, harness, rope, helmet, ice screw, rock pitons, snow pickets, crampon, carabiners, belay device, tap sling, quick draws, map, compass, G.P.S., headlamp, water bottle, first-aid kit, bivouac sack and extra layers. My best equipment brands are Black Diamond, Petzl and Beal. For jackets, undergarments and sleeping bags, I use Feathered Friends, Sherpa Adventure Gear, North Face and Mountain Hardwear.

What advice would you give to someone audacious enough to climb, say, Mount Everest? 



Keep hiking, trekking and climbing in a high-altitude environment. It is the most important way to gain high-altitude experience. Climb on 6,000-meter, 7,000-meter peaks or one of the 8,000-meter peaks before attempting Mount Everest. Himalayas and Andes Mountains are the best places for this kind of high-altitude training. Some technical training on snow, ice, rock and mixed terrain also is important. This is possible on any mountain and permanent glacier in the world. To have a really safe climb, it’s three years of high-altitude and technical training. That’s what I suggest: three years.
322 2013-10-13 When Brad Katsuyama was running the U.S. trading desk for the , his clients would send in orders every day, but every day, when Katsuyama went to buy or sell, something would go wrong. When he wanted to buy, offers to sell shares would suddenly vanish, and the price of the stock would shoot up. When he wanted to sell, the same thing would happen in reverse. “I started to realize that, day in and day out, I was getting screwed,” Katsuyama told me recently.

The problem was that he was often too slow. Back then, in 2007, the stock market was in the middle of a significant shift. A combination of new technology and new regulations had led to the rise of firms focused on high-speed, computer-driven operations known as . With the help of complex algorithms and ultrafast Internet connections, the new traders could buy and sell stocks in fractions of seconds, looking to make a seemingly infinite number of quick, tiny profits that added up. By 2009, high-frequency traders were making billions of dollars a year, and their transactions accounted for about 60 percent of U.S. stock trades.

Some of these traders acted like useful stock-market middlemen, constantly buying and selling, bridging the bid-ask gap between other buyers and sellers. But plenty of others used the new technology to foil long-term investors by trading ahead of the slower players. A trader’s algorithm might detect that Katsuyama was trying to buy 100,000 shares of a stock and then immediately start buying it to drive up the price. Indeed, certain high-frequency traders were forcing long-term investors, including those who managed funds that held ordinary people’s accounts, to constantly buy higher and sell lower. The game seemed rigged.

At first, Katsuyama responded by creating an algorithm intended to make it harder for high-frequency traders to race in front of his trades. But then, he told me, he realized his clients’ real problem was not the traders themselves; it was the stock exchanges. As high-frequency traders proliferated, these platforms were adding clever services to attract their business. “If you want to solve the problem, you go to its root,” Katsuyama said. “And at the root, the problem is the market.” So last year, he and a few of his colleagues decided to leave the bank and start a new place for investors to trade. Rather than woo high-frequency traders, they would limit their advantages. Their trading platform, IEX, is set to open later this month.

The rise of high-frequency trading is often told as a technology story. Hedge funds, Wall Street banks and other firms used increasing computing power to write ever-smarter, ever-faster trading algorithms; fantastically expensive fiber-optic lines were built to decrease transaction times by milliseconds. But the rise of high-frequency trading is also a result of the unintended consequences of regulation. Back in the ’90s and mid-aughts, a series of S.E.C. rules were designed to help ordinary investors by forcing stock exchanges to compete against one another. Exchanges could no longer hoard orders; if a better offer existed on another trading platform, they’d have to send it there.

It was a well-intentioned idea designed to better match buyers and sellers, but it wound up complicating things. New exchanges quickly arose to attract customers, and what is blandly referred to as the stock market soon became a complex web of more than a dozen separate exchanges. Today, it’s not just the familiar and Nasdaq, but also lesser-known ones with names like BATS and . Exchanges are now basically just technology companies, rooms full of computers that match buyers and sellers. There are also roughly 50 so-called dark pools, which allow traders to trade the same stocks that change hands on ordinary exchanges but don’t require participants to post as much information. (IEX will be a dark pool with plans to grow into a full-fledged exchange.) “I don’t think anybody who was putting these rules together envisioned we would have 13 exchanges,” Charles Jones, a finance professor at Columbia Business School, told me.
323 2013-10-14 HIJUELOS--Oscar,The first Latino author to win the Pulitzer Prize in Literature for his 1990 novel 'The Mambo Kings Play Songs of Love,' has died on October 12th at the age of 62. Hijuelos was known for his experimentation with form and voice in a...
324 2013-10-14 The cold-weather apparel maker said it had applied to go public on the Milan Stock Exchange, becoming the latest fashion company to pursue a stock listing....
325 2013-10-14 Imagine that I flip a coin five times, and with every flip, the coin comes up heads. Now let’s say I offered you a bet on the next toss. Which side would you pick?

It has to be tails, right? I’ve flipped the coin five times and seen heads. The odds are definitely in favor of a bet on tails.

Except they aren’t, and we’re fooled into thinking otherwise because of something called the gambler’s fallacy. It’s a cognitive bias we show by taking a long-term average and assuming it applies to every observation. As Daniel Kahneman describes it, “Chance is commonly viewed as a self-correcting process in which a deviation in one direction induces a deviation in the opposite direction to restore the equilibrium.”

For our purposes, it means that the odds of that next flip turning up tails are still 50-50. Flip a coin long enough and the results will bear out those odds. The gambler’s fallacy, however, leads us to think that what happened most recently bears some weight on what will come next.

In reality, the sample size we’re referring to is usually too small, and as Kahneman notes, we’re inclined to over-interpret the results. Long-term averages don’t fit short-term windows, but that doesn’t seem to stop us from trying to make them fit. A classic example is the debate over when we’re due for a market correction (a drawdown of at least 10 percent) or a bear market (a drawdown of 20 percent or more).
326 2013-10-14 RLM Finsbury, New York and London, opened an office in Singapore, to be led by Simon Moyse, who will manage operations across Southeast Asia; he had been based in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, where he established the agency’s Middle East operations.

Tiffany Kirk joined the Los Angeles office of Horizon Media in a new post, vice president and managing director, to lead the local broadcast team. She had been vice president and director for activation at 4D, part of the Publicis Groupe.

Charles Medley Distillers Kentucky, Owensboro, Ky., chose TDA_Boulder, Boulder, Colo., as the first agency for record for the Medley Brothers brand of Kentucky straight bourbon whiskey. Spending was not disclosed.

Newell Rubbermaid, Atlanta, consolidated its advertising and media accounts, which had been handled by dozens of agencies. Spending was estimated at more than $250 million. Bartle Bogle Hegarty, part of the Publicis Groupe, was chosen as lead creative agency; the work will be led by the agency’s New York office, with support from offices in cities like London and Shanghai. The media account was assigned to PHD, part of the Omnicom Media Group division of the Omnicom Group. The changes affect brands that include Goody, Graco, Levelor, Paper Mate, Parker, Rubbermaid and Sharpie.

Omnicom Group, New York, is forming an agency dedicated to its Nissan Motor Company account, following Nissan’s signing of a new three-year contract with Omnicom. The new agency, Nissan United, based in New York, will mange the worldwide relationship between Nissan and Omnicom agencies that include Interbrand, OMD and TBWA/Chiat/Day. Nissan United will be led by Jon Castle, who becomes president; he had been managing director for Nissan Americas at TBWA/Chiat/Day.

One Club for Art and Copy, New York, is teaming with the North American International Auto Show, held each year in Detroit, to introduce an annual awards presentation under the title of the Automobile Advertising of the Year Award. The awards will honor creative excellence in four categories: experiential, interactive, print and outdoor, and television and video.

John A. Reisenbach Foundation, New York, will present three media executives with Distinguished Citizen Awards for 2013 at its 22nd annual gala, to be held on Dec. 2. The honorees are Adam Bain, president of global revenue at Twitter; Andy Donchin, executive vice president and director of media investments at Carat North America, part of the Dentsu Aegis Network division of Dentsu; and Linda Yaccarino, president of advertising sales at NBCUniversal, part of Comcast.

Republic Project, Santa Monica, Calif., sold substantially all of its assets to Digital Generation, New York, for $1.4 million in cash and potential additional payments tied to future performance. The 11 employees of Republic Project, including AJ Vernet, chief executive, will join the Los Angeles office of Digital Generation, which will offer Republic Project’s cloud-based ad platform under its DG MediaMind brand.

Arthur Sadoun, managing director at Publicis Worldwide, based in Paris, was promoted to chief executive. He assumes duties from Jean-Yves Naouri, who had been executive chairman; Mr. Naouri continues as chief operating officer at the Publicis Worldwide parent, the Publicis Groupe.

Morgan Shorey joined the New York office of Draftfcb, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, in a new post, senior vice president for strategic business development, reporting to Chris Shumaker, who recently came aboard as executive vice president and chief marketing officer for North America. Ms. Shorey had most recently been advising agencies on business development and before that worked on new business at agencies like Merkley & Partners.

Solve, Minneapolis, hired two employees to work on its new Bentley Motors account. Shawn Hansen joined as Bentley account director; he had been account director on the Honda and Acura accounts at RPA, Santa Monica, Calif. Conor Linnihan joined as account manager on Bentley; he had been an account manager at Hunt Adkins, Minneapolis.

Standard Directors, Greenwich, Conn., was opened by Philip McIntyre, chief executive of the Brand Gallery, and Brian Bennhoff, a longtime producer. Standard Directors represents directors in the live action realm; the initial four filmmakers on its roster are Mark Chaudoir, Iain Greenway, John Hunter and Martin Rosete.

Favio Ucedo joined Wing, New York, part of the Grey Group division of WPP, as chief creative officer. He succeeds Renata Florio, now senior vice president for creative at the New York office of Draftfcb, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Mr. Ucedo had most recently been executive creative director at Grupo Gallegos, Los Angeles.

United Services Automobile Association, San Antonio, known as USAA, won the initial Marketing Analytics Leadership Award, a new award presented by the Association of National Advertisers and MarketShare. USAA was selected over two other finalists, Fidelity Investments and Lego Systems. The winner was determined by a panel of judges as well as votes cast by attendees at the 2013 annual conference of the Association of National Advertisers. USAA won a $50,000 prize, which the company says it will donate to the Fisher House Foundation, an organization that provides free or low-cost lodging to veterans and members of military families being treated at military medical facilities.

Ashleigh Young joined the New York office of Leo Burnett, part of the Publicis Groupe, in a new post, senior vice president and account director. She had been head of global advertising at Avon Products, New York.
327 2013-10-14 A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors....
328 2013-10-14 A conference dedicated to failure. A $10 million engineer. Do you track the “first-date indicator”?...
329 2013-10-14 Last month marked one year since our friend Parwana, 11, was killed along with her sister and two others by a suicide bomber. Life has gone on in the eye of the Afghan storm, as it must....
330 2013-10-14 Microsoft is discovering that gains in market share for its mobile phones are incremental, slowly acquired and ultimately dwarfed by the position held by Google....
331 2013-10-14 Mr. Bolton insists that Mr. Bustani was ousted for incompetence. In a telephone interview on Friday, he confirmed that he had confronted Mr. Bustani. “I told him if he left voluntarily we would give him a gracious and dignified exit,” he said.

As Mr. Bustani tells the story, the campaign against him began in late 2001, after Iraq and Libya had indicated that they wanted to join the Chemical Weapons Convention, the international treaty that the watchdog agency oversees. To join, countries have to provide a list of stockpiles and agree to the inspection and destruction of weapons, as Syria did last month after applying. Inspectors from the agency were making plans to visit Iraq in late January 2002, he said.

“We had a lot of discussions because we knew it would be difficult,” Mr. Bustani, who is now Brazil’s ambassador to France, said Friday in his embassy office in Paris. The plans, which he had conveyed to a number of countries, “caused an uproar in Washington,” he said. Soon, he was receiving warnings from American and other diplomats.

“By the end of December 2001, it became evident that the Americans were serious about getting rid of me,” he said. “People were telling me, ‘They want your head.’ ”

Mr. Bolton called on Mr. Bustani a second time. “I tried to persuade him not to put the organization through the vote,” Mr. Bolton said.

But still Mr. Bustani refused, and his fate was sealed. The United States had marshaled its allies, and at an extraordinary session, Mr. Bustani was ousted by a vote of 48 to 7, with 43 abstentions. He was reportedly the first head of an international organization to be pushed out of office this way, and some diplomats said the pressure campaign had made them uneasy.

Mr. Bolton’s office had also circulated a document that accused Mr. Bustani of abrasive conduct and taking “ill-considered initiatives” without consulting with the United States and other member nations, diplomats said.

But Mr. Bustani and some senior officials, both in Brazil and the United States, say Washington acted because it believed that the organization under Mr. Bustani threatened to become an obstacle to the administration’s plans to invade Iraq. As justification, Washington was claiming that Saddam Hussein, the Iraqi leader, possessed chemical weapons, but Mr. Bustani said his own experts had told him that those weapons were destroyed in the 1990s, after the Persian Gulf war.

“Everybody knew there weren’t any,” he said. “An inspection would make it obvious there were no weapons to destroy. This would completely nullify the decision to invade.”

Mr. Bolton disputed that account. “He made that argument after we invaded,” he said. Twice during the interview, Mr. Bolton said, “The kind of person who believes that argument is the kind who puts tin foil on his ears to ward off cosmic waves.”

But diplomats in The Hague said officials in Washington had circulated a document saying that the chemical weapons watchdog under Mr. Bustani was seeking an “inappropriate role in Iraq,” which was really a matter for the United Nations Security Council.

Avis Bohlen, a career diplomat who served as Mr. Bolton’s deputy before her retirement, said in a telephone interview from Washington on Saturday that others besides Mr. Bolton believed that Mr. Bustani had “stepped over some lines” in connection with Iraq and other matters. “The episode was very unpleasant for all concerned,” she said.

Speaking from São Paulo, Brazil, on Saturday, Celso Lafer, the former Brazilian foreign minister, said that in early 2002, he was asked to meet privately with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, who a year earlier had praised Mr. Bustani’s leadership in a letter.

Mr. Lafer said Mr. Powell told him, “ ‘I have people in the administration who don’t want Bustani to stay, and my role is to inform you of this.’ ”

“It was a complicated process,” Mr. Lafer recalled, “with the United States and particularly John Bolton and Donald Rumsfeld wanting the head of Bustani.”

“My view,” he continued, “is that the neocons wanted the freedom to act without multilateral constraints and, with Bustani wanting to act with more independence, this would limit their freedom of action.”

Getting Mr. Bustani fired took some doing. Washington failed to obtain a no-confidence motion from the chemical weapons watchdog’s executive council. Then the United States, which was responsible for 22 percent of the agency’s budget at the time, threatened to cut off its financing and warned that several other countries, including Japan, would follow suit, diplomats have said.

Mr. Bustani recalled that the ambassador from Britain, one of the agency’s most committed member nations, told him that London had sent instructions to vote with Washington. With the United States and Japan covering almost half the budget, the organization ran the risk of collapsing, Mr. Bustani said.

On Friday, while fielding a flow of messages in his office, Mr. Bustani said he felt gratified about the Nobel Prize news and did not regret his days at the agency. “I had to start it from the beginning, create a code of conduct, a program of technical assistance,” he said. “We almost doubled the membership.”

He reflected on the contrast between Iraq and Syria. Inspectors from the agency are there now, cataloging the government’s stockpiles of chemical weapons as a step forward in Syria’s civil war, now in its third year.

“In 2002, the U.S. was determined to oppose Iraq joining the convention against the weapons, which it did not even have,” he said. “This time, joining the convention and having the inspectors present is part of the Syrian peace plan. It is such a fundamental shift.”
332 2013-10-14 Mr. Griffin, still working at 79, is one of many people here worried about household bills and dismayed at publicly financed stadiums and inflated player contracts.

With gray hair peeking beneath his Tigers cap and bifocals balanced on his nose, Mr. Griffin occupies a rare perch in Detroit’s sports world. For more than a half-century, he has sold everything from popcorn to pennants. He worked at old Tiger Stadium and is now at , a sparkling $300 million stadium that opened in 2000. The public shouldered more than a third of its costs.

Last week, as the Tigers played the in the American League playoffs, Mr. Griffin arrived at work three and half hours before the first pitch to put on his uniform, as he has done for decades. He sold Tigers jerseys and tiny bats to fans, a predominantly white crowd of 44,000, many of whom drove in from the suburbs and drove out again after the ninth inning.

Mr. Griffin went to work last week ringing up merchandise, chatting with customers and sneaking peeks at the ballgame, but part of Detroit’s municipal work force stayed home because of an enforced furlough. The mayor’s office, the City Council, the Board of Ethics and the Finance Department’s purchasing division were all shuttered for the first of two furlough days scheduled in October. Much of the rest of the city was just as quiet. Buses ran late or not at all. Whole acres of downtown streets were vacant. Young men stood idle on street corners.

“I remember when we all took care of each other, instead of just our own,” Mr. Griffin said, taking his place behind his souvenir stand.

He calls himself a real Detroiter who knows his way around hardship, worked two jobs for much of his life and still lives in the heart of the city. His stadium job pays him on commission. Mr. Griffin is hardly the only one to notice the dissonance of pro sports in Detroit these days. The view looks just as strange from the batter’s box as it does from the souvenir stand, according to members of the Tigers’ organization.

At a recent news conference, a reporter asked Detroit catcher Alex Avila if he felt guilty earning nearly $3 million a year. It was a question few other baseball players would have to field, but one that Mr. Avila sounded as if he was expecting.

“We definitely are aware of the situation of where we play,” he said. “One thing that motivates us is that we want to be able to bring a championship to Detroit, a place that has longed for one.”

He added, “We feel we are a big part of the reason that people are coming back downtown.”

, the Tigers’ manager, was also asked about earning $2 million a year in a city where the poverty rate tops 40 percent.

“I know how hard those people work, and it’s a tough thing,” he said.

Mr. Leyland cited his team’s generosity, pointing to the $1 million his ace pitcher Justin Verlander recently committed to and veterans returning to Detroit and his home state, . (Mr. Verlander signed a seven-year, $180 million contract in March.)

“The players are very conscientious about that type of thing,” Mr. Leyland said, “and we try to be very, very good about it. But it doesn’t heal all the wounds. We understand that.”

There is no doubt that the Tigers have remained popular despite the city’s financial travails. The team drew nearly 3.1 million fans this season, ranking sixth in attendance among the 30 major league teams. The Tigers’ television ratings are among the best in baseball.

But Mr. Griffin, who hawked popcorn for 20 cents a box before any of today’s Tigers were born, said he has seen the bonds between the players and the fans fraying. He remembered that when he was a young man working two jobs, one on the production line at and the other at the ballpark, first baseman Norm Cash made time for young and old fans alike. Willie Horton, a former outfielder, invited Mr. Griffin and other stadium employees to his home for fish fries.

“It’s a whole different world now,” Mr. Griffin said. “This generation of ballplayer, you can’t even approach them.”

At a time when there is no such thing as a spare dollar in Detroit, some people here are especially troubled by proposals to use public money for professional sports.

’s governor, , a Republican, has supported a plan to put public money toward a $650 million downtown development project, with a stadium for the Red Wings as the centerpiece. The project, plans for which include apartments, offices, restaurants and shops, is led by Olympia Development, which is owned by Michael Ilitch, the owner of the Tigers and the Red Wings, and the founder of Little Caesars Pizza.

The project would create 8,300 jobs, most of which would go to Detroit residents, said John Hahn, a spokesman for Olympia Development. He defended the use of public money, saying, “Public-private partnerships are how sports arenas and large-scale catalyst developments are primarily financed throughout America.”

Some take exception to that.

Kevin Boyle, a native of Detroit who has written about the city and now teaches history at , said he saw no wisdom in the government’s contributing to new stadiums as cities fall into disrepair.

“It’s really troubling to me to see that much public money going to build a new stadium when there’s catastrophe in the neighborhoods,” Mr. Boyle said.

He said he did not believe the Red Wings, who now play in Joe Louis Arena along the Detroit River, needed to move to a more central location.

“I think suburbanites are going to come in to see sports teams like the Wings wherever they happen to be playing,” he said.

As for Mr. Griffin, he said he remembered how Detroit looked when he moved here from in 1953. The black-owned Gotham Hotel was the elegant center of a vibrant city, and his east side neighborhood was populated by people who cared about their property and one another.

“It was clean and beautiful,” Mr. Griffin said. “Now, it’s not. Put that in the paper.”
333 2013-10-14 The fund’s own internal rebalancing to reflect the changes in the world economy was also a major topic of discussion, with many powerful emerging-market countries expressing their disappointment that the International Monetary Fund has missed its own deadline for giving them a greater voice. According to an internal realignment agreed to in 2010, Europe would have smaller representation and big emerging countries like China would get much more of a voice.

“We all know what is at stake with the 2010 governance reforms,” Christine Lagarde, the fund’s managing director, said. “Once implemented — I am hopeful it will happen, even if not as quickly as we all would have liked — the I.M.F. will have a platform” to reflect its membership better, she said.

In no small part, the delay is due to Washington: Congress needs to ratify the changes. That has led to some additional exasperation with the United States at the major meetings. “Why does this problem remain with us in meeting after meeting?” said P. Chidambaram, India’s finance minister.

Some meeting participants said they expected stronger growth from middle-income countries than the fund expected. “We consider that there is an excess of generalization in the overall analysis on the diminishing strength of emerging markets,” said Hernán Lorenzino, Argentina’s economy minister, “without due distinction of regions with stronger positions and buffers.”

Moreover, others warned that rich-country growth could be driven by cheap money, as it was before the world recession hit. “The sustainability of renewed growth in advanced economies is questioned by many analysts,” said Anton Siluanov, Russia’s finance minister. “This growth is taking place against the backdrop of unprecedented monetary stimulation. In effect, we are witnessing a return to the old model of growth based on low interest rates and rapid credit expansion, which led to the global financial crisis in the first place.”

One other major international challenge emerging in the past year stems from the United States as well: the end of the Federal Reserve’s extraordinarily accommodative monetary policy under Chairman Ben S. Bernanke. Foreign leaders have warned that the so-called taper, the prospective weaning of the economy from that policy, could send shock waves through debt markets.

The risks are twofold. First, the Fed might taper too quickly. A sharp rise in interest rates and fluctuations in currency markets might pop what some market participants have taken to calling “Bernanke bubbles.” But the Fed might also taper too slowly, leaving investors worldwide too reliant on cheap money and leading to more of those “Bernanke bubbles.”

“While unconventional monetary policies helped stabilize growth and financial markets in advanced economies after major crises, more attention should be given to the risks associated with the prolonged use and disorderly exit of such policies,” said Yi Gang, deputy governor of the People’s Bank of China.
334 2013-10-14 Even before the Munich attack, Ralston said he had been warned not to take the team to Romania by Neale Fraser, the coach of Australia’s Davis Cup team, which played in Bucharest in the summer of 1972. Fraser told Ralston that his match had been stolen by partisan line calls and cheating.

“You can’t win because they won’t let you,” Ralston recalled Fraser telling him. “You have no idea what you’re getting into.”

But much bigger forces were propelling the United States toward Bucharest. In the late 1960s and early 1970s, Romania and the United States had a cautious alliance that was crucial during the cold war. The United States saw Romania, and its leader, Nicolae Ceausescu, as a wedge to split the Soviet bloc. Ceausescu had shown himself independent of the Soviet Union by refusing to join other Eastern bloc countries in severing diplomatic ties with Israel after the Six-Day War in 1967. A year later, he did not support the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia. The United States and Western European countries gave Romania large loans and trading privileges, allowing it to join GATT in 1971 and the I.M.F. a year later, the first Eastern European country to do so.

Another benefit was that Ceausescu had relations with the Chinese government and was perceived as one conduit, along with Pakistan, for Nixon to quietly forge what would become the signature legacy of his foreign policy. One of Nixon’s early foreign policy trips was to Romania.

In keeping up relations with the United States, Ceausescu, known as the Conducator (leader), was trying to have it all. He wanted to be a good Stalinist while also getting the fruits of outside capital, and, when it suited him, culture. He saw sport as a way to safely build nationalism.

In one hint of political context, a New York Times article at the time reported that the United States Lawn Tennis Association had agreed to play in Bucharest in part with the advice of the State Department.

Another hint of the diplomatic stakes came from a series of phone calls, said Sigrid Draper, who then had close ties to the White House. Through her work in the Republican Party, she had become friends with Michelle Smith Chotiner, the wife of a close Nixon aide, Murray Chotiner.

After the attacks in Munich, Draper said, Bob Kelleher, an acquaintance and Nixon-appointed federal judge who had been captain of the 1963 United States Davis Cup team and the president of the tennis association from 1967 to 1968, called her to say the Davis Cup team was worried about its Jewish players. Draper, in turn, contacted Murray Chotiner.

“The next thing I knew,” Draper recalled, “Murray called me and said that Nixon called Ceausescu and said, ‘Send them over.’ ”

Whether Nixon actually placed the call is tough to verify. But several members of Nixon’s national security team at the time said that it was as likely as not. Denis Clift, who in 1971 joined the National Security Council staff, said he had no direct knowledge but he could see the logic behind such a move. “This is a positive move of a pawn on the chess table,” Clift said. “He’s calling Ceausescu saying: ‘We can have a win-win. I can have my people go over, and you can guarantee nothing can happen.’ ”

The Davis Cup is a best-of-five contest with four singles matches, featuring each team’s two top singles players, and one doubles match. The Romanians used only two players: the graceful and mercurial Ilie Nastase, a 26-year-old playboy and the reigning United States Open champion, and the cunning brawler Ion Tiriac, a member of the country’s 1964 Olympic hockey team.

Nastase and Tiriac, national heroes and clay-court experts, each played two singles matches, and they teamed up for doubles. They had won the 1970 French Open doubles title on clay. “Tennis for us, at least for Nastase and I, was our life,” Tiriac said in an e-mail dictated to his personal assistant.

For the Americans, Smith, who had defeated Nastase three months earlier to win Wimbledon, was a lock to play singles and doubles. The choice for the other singles player, Ralston recalled, “was the toughest tennis decision I ever made.”

Ralston opted for Tom Gorman, who had reached the United States Open semifinals that year. But he was not built for clay and had lost eight straight matches to Nastase.

The obvious choice would have been Solomon, a much stronger player on clay than Gorman, who had won a crucial match on that surface in the Davis Cup semifinals in Spain. But Ralston said Solomon had seemed a bit out of shape and Ralston had other concerns.

“I didn’t think he’d be able to handle the threat of him being bombed or hit,” Ralston said. “I didn’t want him to go out there thinking someone might potshot him.”

The other Jewish American, Brian Gottfried, was not expected to play.

For his part, Solomon said he was not afraid and, besides, “I can tell you that Tiriac had no good thoughts of playing me.”

In doubles, Smith was teamed with Erik Van Dillen, who had not played well in the Davis Cup finals in 1971, when Tiriac and Nastase routed them in North Carolina.

On paper, the outlook was dubious for the Americans, even if Smith won his two singles matches. In the first match on the first day, Oct. 13, he beat Nastase in straight sets.

In the second match, Gorman was up by two sets to none when Tiriac started his antics, according to the participants and news reports at the time. He cajoled linesmen to side with him on questionable calls, and he sat in a chair in the middle of a game to break Gorman’s rhythm. When Gorman served, Tiriac stared at the ground to force him to pause. Gorman, fearing bad line calls, said he felt “the court got a lot smaller.”

During a changeover in the fourth set, Tiriac walked toward Ralston, who lifted one of Gorman’s rackets like a weapon, then caught himself.

Ralston said: “I honestly think the Lord was protecting me and that team because if I’d have gone after him, that would have been the end of us. We’d have been killed by all the Romanians.”

To the crowd’s chants of “Ti-ri-ac!” he won in five sets.

The referee was Enrique Morea of Argentina, an impartial official with the power to correct clear mistakes. Morea said that the cheating was the worst he had ever seen and that the linesmen “saw whatever Tiriac wanted.”

In the locker room at Club Sportiv Progresul after the match, Van Dillen argued that the team should go home. Then came a made-for-television moment starring Solomon. “Come on, guys,” Solomon recalled saying. “If we pack it in, and we let these guys have this thing, it’s like they’re going to win twice,” referring to playing in Romania, then forfeiting.

The Americans were not the only ones on edge.

“The Romanians had a mixture of pride, and apprehension, hope and despair, the whole mix of Balkan emotions,” Jonathan Rickert, the consul in the United States Embassy at the time, said in a recent interview.

In Tiriac, they might have seen themselves: survivors who had done whatever it took to maintain their Romanian core after being overrun by Hungarians, Russians, Germans, Greeks and Turks.

Toma Ovici, a member of the Romanian team before and after the 1972 finals, said the Davis Cup bewitched Bucharest. When Nastase lost to Smith, said Ovici, who watched from the stands, “people were looking for Nastase’s car to burn it.”

In the next day’s doubles match, the Americans took only 68 minutes to win in straight sets, with Van Dillen having what Smith and others said was the match of his life. And so the Americans led the Davis Cup, 2-1, heading into the final day’s singles matches: Smith vs. Tiriac and Nastase vs. Gorman.

News accounts credited Morea, the referee, with doing a yeoman’s job of keeping control, removing a partisan linesman at one point. Behind the scenes, Morea, who had a bodyguard sleeping outside his hotel room, was furious about the cheating.

Morea, 89, had a stroke six years ago but said on the telephone with assistance from his wife, Alicia, that he had told Ralston, “Please try not to hit any of the lines because it will make things easier.”

The stage was set for a tense day.

Polar opposites in style and temperament, Smith, a breezy surfer-boy Californian, and the combative Tiriac, black Brillo-pad hair on his wrecking-ball-size head, played a whopper. Tiriac won the first set, Smith the next two, then Tiriac won the fourth, using all his tricks. When Tiriac served long but Smith hit a winner, the linesman called Tiriac’s serve in and Smith’s return out. “I got two bad calls on the same point,” Smith said, acknowledging, “This is when I was finally going nuts.”

In the fifth set, Smith played breathless tennis, hitting indisputable winners and beating Tiriac, 6-0, to secure a fifth straight Davis Cup title for the United States. Nastase defeated Gorman in the meaningless final match.

In the moments after, the Americans said they felt too exhausted to celebrate. And, Ralston said, Romanian security officers told him they had found two Arab men nearby and “literally threw us into the cars.”

Tiriac, 74, who was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in July, did not respond to a question regarding the accusations of cheating. He said in the e-mail dictated to his assistant, “The Davis Cup in 1972 was unfortunately just another final that we lost.” In an interview with the Tennis Channel in May, he said he had no regrets about his behavior, and in 2002, Smith and Gorman accepted Tiriac’s invitation to return to Bucharest to re-enact the match with him and Nastase.

Rickert, the embassy consul, said the Romanians, and Tiriac, had put up an outsize fight, that mix of survival and fatalism.

“Tiriac had no business being on the court with Smith, tennis-wise,” Rickert said. “But, somehow, he played and psyched and performed in such a way that he made a match of it, and then he just ran out of steam. What he did was a tribute to something, I’m just not sure quite what.”
335 2013-10-14 ■ Christian Juhl joined Essence as chief executive for North America, a new post, based in the agency’s San Francisco office. He had been president for the West at Razorfish, part of the Publicis Groupe.

■ Sarah Hofstetter, president for the United States division of 360i, part of Dentsu, was promoted to a new post, chief executive for 360i United States. Jared Belsky, executive vice president, with duties that included overseeing the agency’s Atlanta office, was promoted to succeed Ms. Hofstetter as president for 360i United States.

■ Paul Palimieri, chief executive at Millennial Media, was appointed global chairman of the Mobile Marketing Association, succeeding Cameron Clayton, president for the digital group at the Weather Company, who held the post for the last two years.

■ A campaign that featured messages based on the Bible that were signed by “God” is returning on billboards, the medium that was used to introduce the campaign in 1998, as well as online, at the Web site godspeaks.com. The campaign is sponsored by a 501(c)(3) organization, GodSpeaks, and is being created by Joseph David Advertising, St. Simons Island, Ga.

■ Internet advertising spending in the first half totaled $20.1 billion, up 18.2 percent from the same period a year ago, according to the Interactive Advertising Bureau, New York. The growth was fed by a 145 percent increase in mobile ad revenue. Internet ad spending in the second quarter was $10.3 billion, up 18.4 percent from the second quarter of 2012.

■ Amplify Interactive, Portland, Ore., a search marketing agency, was acquired by Add3, Seattle, which also specializes in search marketing. Financial terms were not disclosed. Amplify Interactive becomes the Portland office of Add3.

■ Print advertising pages in magazines fell 1.8 percent in the third quarter compared with the same period a year ago, according to the Publishers Information Bureau, New York. For the first three quarters, the bureau reported, print ad pages declined 3.8 percent from the first three quarters of 2012. In the third quarter, the combined total of print ad pages and tablet ad units rose 6.8 percent from the same period a year ago, the bureau said; for the first three quarters, the combined total increased 7 percent compared with the first three quarters of 2012.

■ Hubbl, New York, which specializes in mobile native advertising and personalization technology, was acquired by Airpush, Los Angeles, which offers marketers a mobile ad platform. Financial terms were not disclosed.

■ BooneOakley, Charlotte, N.C., opened a consulting division, named Eye, to be led by Jim Mountjoy.

■ Gordon Galloway, Tempe, Ariz., an agency that specializes in clients in the casino gambling and entertainment industries, was acquired by Off Madison Ave, Phoenix. Financial terms were not disclosed.

■ Hershey Company, Hershey, Pa., plans to introduce in the United States a brand of caramel soft crème candies named Lancaster. Although the brand made its debut in China this year, the new candies will have a different recipe from their Chinese counterparts. The American introduction, scheduled for January, will include a major advertising campaign by the New York office of Arnold Worldwide, part of the Havas Creative division of Havas. Hershey said Lancaster was the first brand to be introduced by the company in three decades that was not related to an acquisition or a line extension.
336 2013-10-14 Gov. Andrew Cuomo had the right idea when he formed a commission to help end the scandal epidemic in New York State. He appointed a respected group of experts, asked them to come up with ways to cut the sleaze, promised them independence and asked for a preliminary report by Dec. 1. As that deadline nears, however, there is growing concern that the Commission to Investigate Public Corruption, also known as the Moreland Commission, could become little more than a branch of the governor’s political network. If so, it will be another Potemkin committee, issuing another report.

The commission’s biggest test was to devise legislation that would allow public financing of campaigns, the surest way to end Albany’s pay-to-play culture. Yet some of the commissioners are apparently considering a constitutional amendment to allow public financing instead of a new law. That would be a mistake, offering the false promise of reform while giving the governor and legislators an excuse to delay any real changes for years.

What’s distressing about this news is that the commissioners got off to a good start. They were investigating developers of high-end apartments to find out how lucrative tax breaks were mysteriously slipped into budget bills. Then, suddenly, the commission stalled.

Mr. Cuomo has denied personally meddling with the commission, but according to a number of news reports, the commissioners decided against issuing a subpoena to the Real Estate Board of New York when the governor’s aides objected. Members of that board have given generously to Mr. Cuomo’s campaign. The commission was also somehow dissuaded from investigating campaign accounts for the State Democratic Party, which has spent millions this year on behalf of the governor.

The independence Governor Cuomo promised will clearly be compromised if not wholly sabotaged if he or members of his staff tell the commissioners what to do and what not to do. Even worse, doing so would destroy the confidence of an already wary public that anything meaningful can be done to curb the way money corrupts politics in Albany.
337 2013-10-14 Some tourists said they had held out hope that the federal government would get its act together in time. Others admitted they had all but given up. After traveling to New York City from far-flung places, they feared they would be resigned to squinting from afar at one of its most famous landmarks.

Maybe they could buy a pair of binoculars. Or write their congressman.

But on Sunday, they once again lined up in Battery Park, eager to resume one of the city’s most famous tourist rituals. For the first time since the federal government shut down on Oct. 1, the Statue of Liberty was open to visitors, financed, for now, by the State of New York.

“We wanted to be here first thing this morning,” said Janice Redfearn, a retired schoolteacher from Utah who was visiting with her husband, John, and described the Statue of Liberty’s sudden reopening as a “miracle.”

Ms. Redfearn said she and her husband worried that the shutdown would wreak havoc on their trip, and said they were thrilled that they were able to visit Liberty Island. But they had more headaches ahead: the next leg of their trip was a visit to Washington, where Mr. Redfearn yearned to visit the Smithsonian Institution, whose museums remained closed.

As of Sunday, under a deal negotiated by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, New York will pay the National Park Service $61,600 per day so that its personnel can operate the Statue of Liberty while the federal government remains shut down.
338 2013-10-14 Greece, Portugal and Cyprus have also received bailouts from the troika of international lenders: the I.M.F.; the European Commission, which is the European Union’s administrative arm; and the European Central Bank. Ireland, as the bailout recipient most accepting of the need for economic retrenchment, has been seen as a laboratory for the type of austerity measures favored by some creditor nations like Germany.

The government in Dublin is still due to receive a final loan tranche from international lenders, but if it succeeds in leaving the program in December as planned, this will be its last of the $91 billion in aid. Ireland would then be fully reliant on bond markets to help finance its continuing operations and make good on payments to investors who have bought its debt.

Ireland’s existing loans to international lenders will still need to be repaid, however, and these repayments will take many years to complete, with the final one due in 2042.

Ireland has already tested its market access with some bond issues and in March sold 5 billion euros’ worth of 10-year bonds. The yield on the debt was 4.15 percent.

But as insurance against potential troubles with righting its finances, Ireland may need to apply for a precautionary credit line from international lenders.

Mr. Kenny would not comment on that issue in an interview with the Irish broadcaster RTE, but he did say he had no intention of changing the country’s corporate tax rate of 12.5 percent. One German newspaper suggested that an increase in the rate, which is a thorn in the side of euro zone states with heavier taxes, might be a condition for such precautionary aid.

Though Ireland had been expected to leave the bailout program in December, that timetable seemed to be at risk at times. An exit on schedule would come as a relief to European policy makers. But Simon Tilford, the deputy director of the Center for European Reform, a research institute in London, warned against applying Dublin’s lessons too broadly.

“If Ireland can’t make the strategy a success, it’s difficult to see who can in the euro zone,” Mr. Tilford said. “It’s a highly flexible, export-led economy with high levels of social cohesion and good governance.”

He added: “For the euro zone, things are still in the balance, and the outlook for growth looks very weak. The recession does appear to be coming to an end, but there is a difference between that and a sustained economic recovery.”

Ireland’s growth prospects have been aided by the recovery outside the euro area, including in its close trading partner, Britain, which does not use the euro.

If Ireland can avoid applying for a credit line, it would strengthen the government’s claim to have restored economic sovereignty.

On Saturday, Finance Minister Michael Noonan hinted that that was the government’s objective. After noting that countries that exited international bailouts in the past had often had follow-up precautionary programs, Mr. Noonan pointed out that Ireland’s national debt agency “is carrying cash buffers” of about $34 billion.

“The cash buffers have given us the kind of backstop that we need,” he said, Reuters reported.

In a statement, Gerry Adams, the leader of the left-leaning opposition party Sinn Fein, accused Mr. Kenny of indulging in spin and “an attempt to convince the people that austerity is working.” He added that “the reality for communities and families across the state is very different.”
339 2013-10-14 Opponents said the unions were manipulating a mostly blue-collar community and its hopes, dangling a prize that would not live up to promises. With a tiny number of residents in a position to decide — off-year elections typically draw around 7,000 voters — a battle is raging, pitting corporations and conservatives against unions and many immigrant and religious groups, with both sides knocking on doors, registering new voters and planting yard signs.

“We want to achieve the American dream,” said Abdirahman Abdullahi, a Somali immigrant who earns $11.20 an hour after six years as a Hertz employee and who often works combined 70-hour weeks at two jobs to help support his family of four.

Opponents argue that increasing the minimum wage would have short-term benefits but would lead to long-term losses as businesses adapted by cutting employees, raising prices or moving out.

“Folks involved with this are taking advantage of the good intentions of other people,” said Rick Forschler, a SeaTac City Council member who is fighting the measure. He said he feared that incentives to start or expand a business in the city itself would be stunted no matter what happened at the airport.

Another Council member, Mia Gregerson, is swinging hard the other way, reminding voters about the economic inequality that haunts their community even as the high-tech, high-salary economy of Seattle soars some 15 miles to the north. About 10 percent of the workers potentially affected by the referendum live in SeaTac.

“The middle class is disappearing,” said Ms. Gregerson, who grew up in the city. “We have people starving. We have people going homeless.”

Opponents assert that if higher wages drive up prices for airport food, people will vote with their feet.

“If you’re going to have a 30 percent increase in food prices, it will mean a lot of people will eat outside the airport,” said Bob Donegan, the president of Ivar’s, a seafood company based in Seattle with a restaurant at the airport. “That’s not a good thing for the airport or its workers.”

Supporters, citing a report by the liberal research group Puget Sound Sage, said that travelers accounted for more than two-thirds of airport commerce, and that increasing pay to $15 an hour would inject $54 million into the local economy.

Arindrajit Dube, an associate professor of economics at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, who has studied minimum wage policies — San Francisco International Airport, for example, has a $12.93-an-hour minimum, enacted in 2000 — said localized rules did not appear to have much impact on staffing levels.

Higher wages do, however, attract more skilled workers and reduce employee turnover, Mr. Dube said, and over time that can change the composition of the work force.

David Rolf, the president of a Service Employees International Union chapter based in Seattle that worked to get the measure on the ballot, said success on Election Day could be the making of a pattern. “There are certainly a number of other cities where this idea might work,” he said.

The backdrop is a community of about 27,000 that has mostly been on the sidelines as good times happened elsewhere.

About one in six SeaTac residents live below the poverty line, according to federal figures, compared with about one in 10 in all of King County, which includes Seattle. Since the late 1990s, according to census data, the number of SeaTac children in poverty has nearly doubled, to about 31 percent.

“Fifteen dollars an hour would really help — it would enable people to pay their bills on time and fix up their houses,” said Chris Smith, 49, a father of three who until recently fueled aircraft for $10 an hour. He quit that job to work at Walmart for the same wage, he said, figuring he might as well do work that felt safer.

Maxford Nelsen, a labor policy analyst at the Freedom Foundation, a conservative research group in Olympia, Wash., said that if the referendum passed, its effects would erode job security across the board.

“When you combine all these elements together, we believe the initiative would be incredibly hostile to employment at Sea-Tac,” he said.

The measure would exempt airlines and small businesses, including restaurants with fewer than 10 employees.

But a spokesman for Alaska Airlines, which has its hub at Sea-Tac and filed a lawsuit this summer with other businesses trying to stop the referendum, said a $15 minimum wage would affect baggage contractors.

“If they have to pay their workers more, they would certainly pass that on to us,” said the spokesman, Paul McElroy. “We are in a very competitive industry.”

As the referendum approaches, airport revenue is booming.

“A record total of passengers spent a record amount of money eating and shopping last year at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport,” the Port of Seattle, which operates the airport, said in a news release this year. Among their purchases were 90,000 neck pillows and 20,000 copies of the book “Fifty Shades of Grey.”
340 2013-10-14 Alan Riding’s article from May 2, 1995....
341 2013-10-14 Nearly a billion people routinely use cellphones in India, up from fewer than 40 million a decade ago. Even many of the poorest villages now have televisions, and India’s numerous 24-hour news channels have blanketed the nation’s airwaves with coverage of the storm.

As the cyclone approached, many villagers tried to stay behind to safeguard their land and livestock during the worst of the storm, according to local news reports, but almost none were unaware of the coming danger. And that is a huge change. Another crucial change has been a boom in the construction of cement houses, schools and businesses that provide crucial shelter in even the remotest areas. Villagers who stayed until the last moment had somewhere to go for safety.

K. Baliah, a district official from Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh State, said that some of the 60,000 people evacuated in the district did not leave their homes willingly. All were allowed home on Sunday, he said.

“People are complaining that they knew nothing would happen, but officials forced them to move anyway,” he said with no apology.

With at least 1,000 acres of farmland submerged and many thatched homes and fishing boats destroyed, officials said their coercion proved effective. But Mr. Baliah said that because the cyclone was not as severe as predicted, officials would have a harder time persuading large numbers of people to evacuate in the future.

Dr. Jibanananda Mohanty, a retired veterinary surgeon from Bhubaneswar in the state of Odisha, said by telephone on Sunday that he had spent a harrowing night listening to howling winds and crashing trees outside, and that his home remained without electricity and water. But he had days to store enough water, milk, vegetables and other supplies to carry him through.

“Because of the advanced warning, we were prepared for this situation,” Dr. Mohanty said. “I haven’t heard of any loss of life in my neighborhood.”

India’s state and central governments spent days preparing for the worst. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said in a statement on Saturday that he had been briefed on preparations for the storm and had directed the central government to extend all needed assistance to state officials.

Service members from the country’s army, air force and navy were deployed to help with rescue and relief operations, said A. K. Antony, India’s defense minister, and hundreds of shelters were set up.

Visakhapatnam, in Andhra Pradesh and near the center of the storm, experienced little damage apart from a collapsed sea wall. By 9 a.m., the sun was shining, businesses had opened at their usual times and traffic had resumed its usual chaos. People emerged from their homes on Sunday with a sense of relief and, in some cases, an “I knew it all along” attitude.

Tousis Ahmed, 30, who is employed in India’s emerging technology industry, stayed out late on Saturday night and even swung by the beach, which had been cordoned off, to check on the ocean.

“The waves were calm, so I went home and had a sound sleep,” Mr. Ahmed said.

B. Murkandarao, a fruit vendor, said he stayed open for business on Saturday night until his usual hour and was back on the street again on Sunday morning. “They tried to scare us on TV, but I was never worried,” he said.

The Bay of Bengal region is among the most vulnerable in the world to the effects of climate change, and experts have predicted that storms are likely to become more intense. India and Bangladesh together have more people at risk from rising sea levels than any other place in the world. So the government’s relatively effective response to the most recent storm is an encouraging sign.
342 2013-10-14 3. Heat 2 tablespoons of the olive oil over medium heat in a large, nonstick skillet and add the garlic. Cook, stirring, until fragrant, about 1 minute. Stir in the parsley and quinoa and mix together until the quinoa is coated with oil. Remove from the heat and stir in the cheese. Season to taste with salt and pepper.

4. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Oil a baking dish large enough to accommodate all of the peppers. One at a time, lay a pepper in the dish and fill with the quinoa mixture. I do this by gently opening up the pepper, mounding the filling onto one half, and folding the other half back over the filling, overlapping the edges slightly. Lay the peppers in the dish. Cover the baking dish with foil or a lid and bake the peppers for 20 minutes. Meanwhile, reheat the tomato sauce.

5. Ladle the tomato sauce onto serving plates or a serving platter. Top with the stuffed peppers and serve.

Advance preparation: Roasted peppers will keep for about 5 days in the refrigerator. The peppers can be stuffed and held for a day or two in the refrigerator before baking.

Nutritional information per serving: 292 calories; 15 grams fat; 4 grams saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 7 grams monounsaturated fat; 15 milligrams cholesterol; 32 grams carbohydrates; 6 grams dietary fiber; 103 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 9 grams protein

Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”
343 2013-10-15 While the appeal does not explicitly mention the uncertainty surrounding the company, it gives several reasons for its customers to keep the faith....
344 2013-10-15 The gay-rights movement has racked up some big wins in the past few years. First it was: “Obama Ends ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ Policy.” And then: “Supreme Court Bolsters Gay Marriage With Two Major Rulings.” But time and again, federal measures to protect transgender Americans have faltered.

Does it still make sense to think of trans rights as part of the gay-rights movement? Or at this point, is it a different campaign with different goals?
345 2013-10-15 After receiving approval from the Department of the Interior and the National Park Service, states have reopened parks and attractions like the Grand Canyon and Mount Rushmore....
346 2013-10-15 The reinsurance fee is one of several measures intended to stabilize premiums in the individual insurance market as major provisions of President Obama’s health care law take effect in January....
347 2013-10-15 Fred Cicetti, a 72-year-old retiree in Lincoln Park, N.J., said he was dismayed to learn that his insurer had discontinued his no-premium Advantage plan for 2014; a plan being offered with relatively comparable coverage came with a premium of $153 per person. That meant more than $300 a month to cover himself and his wife.

By calling around, he was able to find another plan with roughly the same coverage through a different insurer, with a premium of about $70 a month. “We found a solution that works for us,” he said. “But people really have to dig.”

If you have traditional Medicare and buy a stand-alone plan for prescription drug coverage, there are more choices this year, according to an analysis from the nonprofit Kaiser Family Foundation. Medicare beneficiaries will, on average, be able to choose from 35 drug plans, up from 31 last year, the report found. Most plans now use “preferred” pharmacy networks, so you’ll pay more if you buy your medicine elsewhere.

Most people don’t change drug plans, even though those who do switch often save money, a separate report from the Kaiser Foundation found. “People do tend to stick with the plan they’ve selected,” said Patricia Neuman, a Medicare policy expert and one of the study’s authors.

That may be because it is time-consuming for seniors to sit down with all their medications and calculate what their costs would be under a new plan, compared with their current plan, she said. “A lot of people think the juice is not worth the squeeze,” she said.

The federal government estimates that the average monthly premium for Medicare drug coverage in 2014 will be $31.

Here are some questions about Medicare open enrollment:

The federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the government agency that oversees Medicare, says open enrollment won’t be delayed.

■ Where can I review my Medicare options?

Go to the Medicare Plan Finder at Medicare.gov. (Don’t go to the new federal health care exchange created by the Affordable Care Act; that’s for people under 65 who want to shop for private insurance coverage, not for people on Medicare.)

■ What if I’m confused about my choices?

You can call Medicare at 800-633-4227. Or if you prefer help in person, try the State Health Insurance Assistance Program, known as SHIP. A list of programs by state is available on the program ‘s Web site.
348 2013-10-15 A remixed version of a video made by Casey Neistat was sent internally at Apple to thank some customer service representatives for their work on the latest iPhone release....
349 2013-10-15 When two employees hate each other. How to choose a business name. Start-ups that could change your life....
350 2013-10-15 After a dress company’s major loss because of fraud, some employees who should have raised alarms were laid off: “I’m wrong, too,” said one owner, “but I can’t fire myself.”...
351 2013-10-15 You talked at length about the institutional problems. What’s at the core of it? Why is this happening now?

Of course, I can say something about Europe, I don’t want to say anything about the internal U.S. situation. If I look at the European problem, the governance was and it is still a problem because of the link between a new role of parliaments, very important, after a decade in which parliaments were a little bit below, in comparison with the role of governments. Today, parliaments are more important because of the need of legitimacy, of the popular legitimacy, of public opinion legitimacy of politics. Parliaments are, at the end of the day, the only true legitimacy. So it’s the new role of parliaments.

But, of course, a new role of parliaments brings a more heavy timetable. It is not easy to be timely with parliaments; it is easier to be timely with governments, of course, I think it’s natural. This is why, for instance, at the European level, we have to manage to put in balance the role of parliaments, the growing role of parliaments — that is good news in my view, and how to take timely decisions.

If I look at European problems, for instance, before we arrived to the famous and decisive Mario Draghi’s statement, “whatever it takes,” we needed around 30 summits at the level of heads of state and government. Of course, it was too much. It was one of the reasons why we wasted a lot of money. I have no answer, I can’t say anything about what’s happening in the U.S. today, but my reaction is ... it’s another piece of demonstration of this general problem of governance that our democracies are facing.

Given the economic problems, everyone has spoken about the limitations of austerity, the problems that it has caused. What lesson has Europe learned and what lessons will it need to learn, as far as austerity, politics and economics?

We are at the end of a five-year legislature at the European level, since 2009, in the name of the austerity, 2009-2014. We will enter soon, in eight months, in a new legislature at the European level, with a new Commission, a new European Parliament, a new president of the Council. In my view, this new legislature will be, we need this legislature to be linked to the word “growth.” From austerity to growth.

Why and how? First of all, growth is absolutely linked to budget under control. To be very clear, I can say that the stability law, the budget law, that tomorrow will be voted in the Council of Ministers and we will present to the Parliament exactly tomorrow, will be the budget law for next year, a very clear goal to say to the world, to the markets, that Italy has a budget completely under control. We will have, for the first time after five years, after this five-year crisis, we will have the general debt decreasing again. I think you know, we had a debt growing until 1992-1993. Then from 1993 to 2008, a slow decrease, then again, as all the other European countries, a big increase, but the Italian one increased less strongly, less heavy that the other ones, because the British, Spanish and French one increased more and more than the Italian one, which of course was bigger at the beginning. Now, 2014 will be the first year in which our budget will have the debt decreasing again.

Second, for the second year, after this year in which we’ll have the deficit at 3 percent, next year we’ll have the deficit below 3 percent.

Third, with a cut, a decrease of the general amount of public expenditures, for the first time a general decrease — of course small, but a very important trend — of fiscal pressure. So in 2014, Italy will present a budget under control, a very balanced fiscal situation. I say that, and underline this point, exactly to say that growth doesn’t meant to do more debt. We can have growth, and Italy will lead Europe next year, in the second semester, July to December; it will be the first semester of the next legislature, and “growth” will be the main word. Growth, I repeat, not in contradiction with fiscal consolidation or budget under control. This is, in my view, the big aim of our work, of the Italian approach to the European problems.

How will you spur growth? You are sending a signal to Europe to say we are not going to start spending crazily, but we need to spur growth. Italy has had a very difficult time for two decades driving growth. How can you do it now?

First of all, we’d like to attract investments. We’ll present a big plan of privatizations. This plan will be presented this autumn, so it is not 2014, but immediately. I think it will be important to attract investors to important Italian assets.

Second, there is a European framework that is very important. The European framework is, first of all, stability, political stability and stability in the markets. This a European problem, this is why I stress the point of Mario Draghi’s “whatever it takes” and so on, and it is, of course, linked to the need to avoid new crises like Cyprus, like Greece and so on. This is why our first goal for the next two summits at the European level in October and December, will be the final application and complete delivery of the banking union that is decisive to avoid new crisis. We wasted a lot of money just because of the lack of instruments to avoid financial and banking crises.

So the stability is very important at the European level, “whatever it takes,” banking union, and at the national level, I will just say a few words on that. Markets are waiting for a stable and efficient, laboriosa (in Italian, LABORIUS), Italy. I just raise the example of the last two weeks. Before the political crisis of Mr. Berlusconi, we had the rise again at 300 basis point of the spread, on Monday or Tuesday, I don’t remember, before the Wednesday in which we had the confidence vote. Today, we are again at 60 basis points below then, the fever we had the day before the crisis, just 12 to 13 days after. There is volatility. This volatility for a country with the debt we have, in my view, is a crucial point.

I have to be very clear on that, if next year we have the interest rates on our bonds of around 3 percent, it is life. If we have again, like last year, the interest rates on our bonds between 5 and 6 percent, it is death. So I say political stability is decisive. Somebody has criticized me, saying it’s just words. It’s not words — it’s money. The difference between 3 percent and 6 percent, it’s around 15 billion euros in our interest rates for the budget. And of course, if I have 15 billion, for me it will be easier to cut taxes on labor, that is my goal. If we have again 5 or 6 percent of interest rates, it will be impossible to cut taxes and it will be very difficult to manage the situation.

This is why I say that structural reforms for me mean economic reforms, privatizations, labor, but also institutional reforms. This is why I stressed at the beginning the point on governance and institutional reforms, because Italy is a country with a weak governance balance and framework. This is why I think this is a crucial point and my first commitment is to have a stable … my first commitment, but I’d say also the first commitment of the president of the Republic, who is fighting against instability. I think political instability is the first virus of Italy, because we have a lot of good signals. If we are in a situation of 18 months of stability, I think we can really be at the European level again leaders of a pro-European integration.

The obvious agent of instability in Italian politics in recent months has been Mr. Berlusconi. He had a somewhat humiliating week with the confidence vote. Is he no longer a figure of great power in Italian politics? What’s your analysis of why he did what he did and why he failed?

I think it’s not my part to give evaluations or lessons on that. My goal and mission is to be very strong in avoiding back steps. I leave judgments, evaluations and analysis to the media, then to the observers. I am confident in the political stability after Wednesday, Oct. 2. I am confident because what happened on Wednesday, Oct. 2, it was a big call for stability, a general call for stability rising from the country, rising from entrepreneurs, workers, institutions, and my first mission is to give an answer to this call, to guarantee the stability and to guarantee that stability is the only possibility to apply reforms, structural reforms, and also to help Europe to be better-targeted on growth, and better-targeted also on these problems of governance that I stressed at the beginning, because we need to have a European Union able to decide timely and on the correct goals.

I think after the elections in Germany, we have a great opportunity. The great opportunity is to have maybe a grand coalition there, as we have in Italy, as we have in many European countries. The list of countries in which a grand coalition is working is a growing list. I will host here at lunch the Prime Minister Katainen [of] Finland, the Netherlands, Austria, Italy, Ireland, Germany.

So, I think it will be important because, if I see a problem at the European level today, after the governance problem I stressed at the beginning, is the rise of populism. And the rise of populism is today the main European social and political issue. We have to fight against populism, and to fight against populism in my view is a mission today, in Italy and in the other countries. I think Merkel’s big achievement was to … She defeated populism in the last German elections, and it was a great victory. We have to be grateful to her, because it was very important. I can’t imagine a situation in which Germany was with a big populist party in Parliament. I think we have to be very much grateful to Angela Merkel.

We see rising populism in France, as well, right now, and here. Do you think in Italy, with the Five Star Movement, do you think it’s waning in its popularity? Is it still high?

No, no, it’s still high. In my view, until we reach the institutional reforms giving the possibility to the citizens to vote and to vote for a stable institutional framework, to vote for a government, it will be still high until we deliver definitely the law on [public funding] of parties. We approved in the Council of Ministers this law. It’s a very important law because it’s the end of a long season of public money to the parties without any check. Now, we will pass, this is our project, my project, we will pass to a system in which there is a fiscal incentive for those who want to give their personal financial support to a political party with total transparency. The Parliament is, in these very days, approving the law. I think it will be crucial for demonstrating not to the Five Star Movement, but to the citizens who voted for them — because eight million is huge, it’s not possible to say that it’s a country with eight million populists, it’s a different approach. A big part of the voters for the Five Star Movement were voters angry with politicians, with the system. The final approval of our proposal, this revolution on public funding of political parties, will be in my view a crucial step, a crucial change in that. This is why I think there is only one possibility to convince these voters to change. The possibility is to demonstrate that we are changing, no more privileges, transparency and a stable system, and also, I’ll say, a new generation of politicians, transparent and able not to have political careers of 50 years in Parliament and as ministers and so on. Turnover will be, in my view, important.

I think the crucial check, the turning point will be May, the end of May, the European elections, because we have the big risk to have the most “anti-European” European Parliament ever. And the European Parliament today has big power at the European level. For example, the president of the Commission will be voted by the European Parliament.

The big risk is to have a European Parliament with 25 percent of members of Parliament coming from anti-Euro or Europe movements. It’s very difficult to say left or right. If you put together the True Finnish, Farrage, Le Pen, Grillo, and so on, they are very different. Some of them are racists. Some of them are not racists, it’s a big difference on that. But they are all anti-Euro and all anti-Europe. …

I think the crucial point will be, Are we able to stop populism in Europe? Or the new Parliament will be the most anti-Europe European Parliament ever. I think that turning point will be 20 to 25 percent. If we are able, the two, three main European parties to have the 70 or 80 percent of European Parliament, or not. That will be crucial. If not, it will be in my view a nightmarish legislature. We have to follow Merkel’s example. She was able to stop populism in Germany. We have to do the same at European level, and of course at the national level.

Some people would argue the rise of populism is a byproduct of the failed economics policies in which Ms. Merkel was an essential figure, so … how serious were the mistakes that were made in the name of austerity?

The crucial point was the lack of governance. The crucial point was the fact that we needed these 30 summits before the “whatever it takes,” and we needed five years before understanding that, if we have a single currency, we also need to have a banking union. And we are still in between this process, because we took a lot of important decisions at the European Council in June, end of June for the banking union. But we need to apply, to deliver. And this October and December councils and next year will be decisive to have this rescue plan. No more banking crisis in Europe, because we spent a lot of money.

I’d say that, in these five years, Italy was in crisis. But Italy spent 50 billion euros for saving the other countries in crisis in Europe, for saving banks, not Italian banks. We didn’t spend more than 3 billion for saving Italian banks. But we spent money to save other countries. … This is why I say it’s crucial. We need to have a governance able to decide, and we need to have a governance of the Euro-area.

I know it’s a little bit too technical as a problem, it’s not very easy to be perceived. But for instance, in Europe we are 28 right now, but 18 with Latvia that will be on board next January, with the same currency. And it’s impossible not to have institutions at 18. This is my feeling. And the only institution we have at the 18 level is the E.C.B. But we can’t give the E.C.B. a role that is too heavy for the E.C.B. The E.C.B. is a central bank, it’s not a political power. So we have to rethink the European governance knowing that we, the 18, we need to have more institutions able to take decisions.

I think it will also be a good step to help the British to stay on board of the European Union, because they, in my view, they have to stay on board. I don’t want to have them out. It will be decisive to have them on board for having a European Union as a global player, free-market friendly and so on. But to have them on board, we have to allow them to be on board in a more flexible way. And it’s in our common interest. We have to stay with more ties among the 18, and we can give them more flexibility to stay at the 28 level.

You seem to argue that we need to have more efficient E.U.-wide institutions. The Brits often want to devolve powers from Brussels back to the individual states. Isn’t this a contradiction?

I think it’s not a contradiction because of these divisions, separation, between the 18 and the other 10. Because, of course, we need to have a deepening in the 18, and this deepening is absolutely not in contradiction with a more flexible European framework for those like the Brits who want to stay, but with different links that we want to have. Because having the same currency is a completely different life. This is why I think it will be one of the steps in the future.

I know it is very difficult to speak with our citizens about this governance and institutional problems. This is why I stress the point that Europe has to speak, to express to the citizens first of all projects on growth, fight against youth unemployment that, for me, has to be the main mission of Europe, because the rise of youth unemployment is the nightmare at the European level. We have to be stronger and stronger in fighting against youth unemployment. We have to solve governance problems without creating situations in which these problems of governance become the main issues in the public discussion, because, of course, it’s a way to help Le Pen and the others.

How can youth unemployment be solved?

We started at the June Council, for the first time, putting an important amount of money for the youth guarantee. It is a new, very important decision for helping young people going from education, from schools and universities, directly to stages, to jobs and so on. But we have to multiply, in my view, this decision we had in June and next year, I think, we have to work on that issue.

I stress how with Obama, we talked in a very frank and with common values on this issue, because Obama, I was not there, of course, in last year’s G-8 in Camp David, but I know how Obama was decisive in helping Europe to overcome the problems and how Obama stressed the growth issue. My visit to Washington on Thursday will be first of all on these issues, how on both sides of the Atlantic we can work together boosting growth.

And for boosting growth, for instance, the first step in my view is to say two important things that we all together repeated in St. Petersburg and in Lochkhern, but I’d like that Italy and the U.S. will be two countries repeating these two important words — the first one is fight against any protectionism. It’s crucial because protectionism is the worst enemy of growth in this very period. And we have T.T.I.P [the Trans-Atlantic Trade and Investment Partnership]. T.T.I.P. is a crucial issue, it is in our hands. I will go to Washington repeating what I said in St. Petersburg. Fighting against protectionism will be important for growth, and Europe and the United States can create really a sort of joint trans-Atlantic market. The second one is the fight against fiscal evasion, fiscal avoidance and against fiscal heavens. In St. Petersburg, we decided important statements on that, we said important things. Yes, we need to apply them. And for us Europeans, the fight against fiscal heavens in Europe … will be decisive also for our national budgets. I know that there are ... huge Italian money out of Italy, without giving their contribution to our budget. We have to change completely this issue.

How damaging is the U.S. situation to all the aspirations that Europe has for greater economic integration, for progress?

I don’t want to enter in internal political U.S. affairs. But I will call for. … We need the American leadership. We need the American leadership. Last year, the American leadership helped the Europeans to overcome the economic problems of the austerity and of the euro crisis. We need the American leadership on growth, on the fight against protectionism. This is why we hope for a solution, of course, of the internal problems, because we need this leadership. Of course, I will be in Washington also for discussing not only economic issues. … A part of the agenda of our meeting will be on the Mediterranean instability, on Libya. This afternoon, we’ll have an interministerial meeting in which we will decide definitely our humanitarian military mission in the Mediterranean.

This evening, we will have all the technical steps of this mission. I think it will be important, and Italy will work without waiting for European decisions. Because we know that, at the European level, it is impossible to have on these issues timely decisions. But people are dying today, not waiting for bureaucratic achievement in six or nine months. People are dying today. We have to save them and I think for us, the humanitarian approach is the first step, so this is why it will be an Italian mission. Of course, I had phone calls yesterday with the Maltese prime minister and with the others. We will discuss the crisis in the Mediterranean in Brussels next week, the 24th, at the European Council. We asked, I asked, the French president, the Maltese president, we asked [European Council President Herman] Van Rompuy to put the point in the agenda because the point was not there. And we will discuss. But I repeat, Italy will act.

What change does Europe need to make to its immigration policies?

A huge change. First of all, we have to understand that the immigration problem has a Mediterranean [aspect] that is different from the other aspect. For instance, Europe decided some years ago to have Frontex. Frontex is an important European agency. When we decided to have the seat of the agency in Warsaw, it was a clear demonstration of the priority of one of the [aspects] of the immigration policies. That is, of course, the most important one for dimensions, for figures, because we know very well that migrants arriving in Germany or arriving in Northern Europe are in a bigger dimension than those arriving here. But the humanitarian problem linked to the crisis of the failed states in Africa or in the Middle East, and arriving by boat, of course it’s another threat, it’s another issue. In my view, it’s completely different issue. This is why we asked for a different approach of Frontex, maybe for another seat of Frontex in the Mediterranean, not in alternative or in substitution to Warsaw. But we need to have a deputy seat in the Mediterranean, because the Mediterranean immigration issue is completely different. We need to act in a completely different way. This is why we will act for ourselves. ...

Our mission will be a mission of planes, boats. It will be a sort of mission for patrolling all the Sicily Channel between Malta and Lampedusa. We have to help Lampedusa to sustain these problems. Third, we have to oblige Libyan authorities to exist and to play their role. They are not doing that today. It’s also a problem towards the Libyan authorities. We know how Libya today is, but Libya is crucial because they are leaving from Libya, so Libya will be another important step. This is the general aim of our project. We are not saying that we have to open doors completely. We have policies at European and national levels, we have quotas, we have capacity, balanced capacities, but the main problem is that today we have an emergency. The Mediterranean issue is an issue that we have to face with a different approach than the Northern issue....
352 2013-10-15 Scuttling through the chaos of Mumbai’s streets, the city’s Padmini taxis bustle with tiny worlds of personal expression in their decorated interiors and their emotive passengers....
353 2013-10-15 North Carolina’s women’s basketball coach, Sylvia Hatchell, was found to have leukemia. Hatchell said she would temporarily step away from her coaching duties. This would be the 28th season with the Tar Heels for Hatchell, 61.
354 2013-10-15 BERLIN — Germany has long held out against introducing a nationwide minimum wage, and over the weekend Chancellor Angela Merkel emphasized her rejection of the idea. But it may be the price she has to pay to build the stable government she has promised voters.

Ms. Merkel’s conservatives met Monday for a second round of preliminary talks with the Social Democrats, the center-left party that is demanding a base wage of 8.50 euros an hour, or $11.55, for workers across Germany, Europe’s largest economy. The issue emerged as a central sticking point the two sides must overcome if they are to proceed to the next step of formally trying to build a coalition.

The chancellor’s Christian Democratic Union, along with its Bavaria-only sister party, the Christian Social Union, emerged from a Sept. 22 parliamentary election as the clear winners. But the parties fell five seats short of a majority that would have allowed them to govern alone. Their previous partner in government, the pro-business Free Democrats, was ousted from Parliament, leaving Ms. Merkel searching for a new partner.

Ms. Merkel’s conservatives have held an initial round of discussions with the Social Democrats, as well as the Greens. Both meetings concluded with a decision to meet again to sound out whether there are enough common points to open formal negotiations over a coalition that would form the next government.

“Up to now, discussions have only skimmed the surface; today is the first day we dig deeper,” Andrea Nahles, general secretary for the Social Democrats, said before Monday’s meeting. “It is about whether coalition talks are even realistic.”
355 2013-10-15 BRUSSELS — The only thing more enticing to a pirate than treasure, according to Belgian authorities, is the chance to see himself in a movie.

A man suspected of being a pirate mastermind arrived in Brussels on Saturday expecting to sign a deal for a movie about his swashbuckling past in the Somali piracy business. Instead, he found himself under arrest, charged with kidnapping, organized crime and, of course, piracy.

Johan Delmulle, a Belgian federal prosecutor, said Monday that Mohamed Abdi Hassan, a pirate leader also known as Afweyne, had been arrested as he left a flight at the Brussels airport. Mohamed Aden, described as his accomplice, was also arrested.

Mr. Hassan “is considered by the international community, notably the United Nations, one of the most important pirate leaders, responsible for a dozen attacks,” Mr. Delmulle said. United Nations investigators called Mr. Hassan a “notorious and influential” pirate leader. Mr. Aden, who faced the same charges, was accused of having supported what is suspected to be Mr. Hassan’s piracy operation.

In 2009, a dozen pirates attacked a Belgian ship, called the Pompei, about 700 miles off the coast of Somalia. They held the crew, including two Belgian officers and a Dutch captain, in what Mr. Delmulle described as “inhumane conditions, leaving their families in total uncertainty about their fate.”
356 2013-10-15 The Turkish government’s lifting of the ban on head scarves in government offices, including teaching positions (news article, Oct. 9), is a welcome and long-awaited change for millions of Islamic women in this Muslim country and an important remedy for Turkey’s overly aggressive control of religion in the name of secularism.

Contrary to the opposition and the fears of some (letter, Oct. 14), Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan is not Islamifying the country. Yes, he is an Islamic man, but in his 11 years of leading the ruling AK party, alcohol flows freely in secular neighborhoods; Sunday (not Friday) remains a day off from work; and women can freely decide whether they wish to wear Islamic dress.

Finally and happily, the denial of civil rights and individual choice to Turkey’s many millions of head-scarved women may soon be coming to an end.

The writer is the author of “Headscarf: The Day Turkey Stood Still.”
357 2013-10-15 All hail and all that. Three months later, here come the asterisks.

The commission will never back down.* (*Except when the governor’s aides suggest that subpoenaing the , which helped lobby for multimillion-dollar special abatements, was a rude step too far.)

The commission will examine political party housekeeping accounts, those catchall bins into which corporations and the wealthy toss hundreds of thousands of more or less unaccountable dollars.* (*This investigation will scrutinize accounts belonging to the Senate Republican campaign committee and Independence Party. It will avert its eyes from the state committee, which represents the politicians who control two and a half of the three wings of New York government.)

The commission will walk fearlessly.* (*Except it might overlook the governor’s Committee to Save New York, the fund-raising vehicle by which the state’s larger corporate, real estate and barons raised $17 million to express their adoration and support for Mr. Cuomo’s efforts to cut taxes and promote casino gambling. Purely by chance, this committee shut down its operations less than two months ago, which means there is no longer an organization to subpoena. “We felt our mission was accomplished,” the committee’s director said.)

And of course the governor will be unfailingly straightforward in that unfailingly straightforward manner of his.

So an intrepid reporter from The Daily News traveled to Utica, N.Y., to toss questions at him the other day.

Did you or anyone in your administration block those subpoenas? the governor replied. “The co-chairs make the decisions.”

Did your staff, the reporter persisted, play a role in guiding them? The commission’s staff, the governor replied, is picked by the governor and the attorney general.

Is that a yes?

“The co-chairs make that determination,” the governor said, before he really had to get going.

It called to mind a gubernatorial updating of Abbott and Costello’s “Who’s on first?” routine.

The governor is profligate with commissions. He appointed two to examine tax policy (one an ideologically unruly group, and a newer one with better political manners). He selected a couple more to examine and global warming.

Members of such commissions rarely feel forgotten; the governor’s staff members are attentive. “A commission by definition is supposed to be independent,” said a commission member, who spoke on the condition of anonymity as he desires to continue living peacefully in the state. “That’s fundamental, except maybe not for this governor.”

For advocates, the worry now is that the governor has housebroken the commission, and that it will present proposals that will trouble no one. A reform in which no one’s coat gets singed is not worth the trouble, they suggest.

“If we’re not serious about getting rid of money and corruption in politics,” notes State Senator Liz Krueger, a Democrat, “you’ve not only flunked the question as to why you created the Moreland Commission, you’ve also increased the cynicism about how broken Albany is.”

Some wonder, as well, whether Attorney General will recover from his acute case of political . Like many of his peers, he tiptoes carefully around our formidable governor. He has said precious little as the reports emerge that commission staff members answer more readily to the second floor in the Capitol, the governor’s cave, than to the commission chairmen.

Mr. Cuomo likes to say that New Yorkers can sleep better at night knowing that his commission is prowling the land. At the same time, his re-election apparatus is readying in December a 56th birthday bash for the governor, with music by .

Tickets for the high-influence rollers will retail at $50,000.* (*If you have to ask if you can afford it, stay home. The governor has your back.)
358 2013-10-15 For the not-so-tech-savvy, a cable channel like Showtime is still easier to watch than Netflix, but a Netflix button on Comcast or Time Warner Cable’s on-screen guide could change that. Competitive fears, technological hurdles and a thicket of contracts could have stopped it from happening in the past, though, and could still scuttle the idea now.

Many of Netflix’s roughly 30 million streaming subscribers in the United States have hooked their TV sets up to the Internet with devices by Apple, Roku, and other companies. When the newest such device, Google’s Chromecast, went on sale in June, it was bundled with three free months of Netflix service — but the promotion ended after just a day because of what Google called “overwhelming demand.”

Amazon will soon enter the fray with its own Internet TV device. Although Amazon operates a rival streaming service, called Amazon Prime Instant Video, Netflix will be available through the device, according to a person with direct knowledge of Amazon’s plans.

Netflix, for its part, has wanted to be on set-top boxes for almost as long as it has had a streaming video service.

The company is expected to show a gain of about one million American subscribers when it releases its third-quarter earnings on Oct. 21. For the company to reach its publicly stated goal of having 60 million to 90 million domestic subscribers someday, it will help to be available on every imaginable Internet-connected screen and device.

“Having the Netflix app on a set-top box is a natural progression,” Jonathan Friedland, Netflix’s chief communications officer, said in an e-mail on Monday. “Our goal is to make it as simple as possible for consumers to enjoy Netflix while cable operators see value, too, because it makes their broadband service more attractive.”

Some cable giants (like Time Warner Cable) see themselves primarily as broadband, not television, providers. Cablevision already promotes itself as having “the highest-quality Netflix experience,” and in the future it and others could bundle Netflix with faster, higher-priced broadband service.

But Netflix’s preferred way to deliver its video streams, through a server system it calls Open Connect, is a severe point of contention and a sticking point in the current discussions. While Cablevision and Cox’s networks are tied into Netflix’s servers this way, most other American providers have rejected the system.

Representatives of several providers acknowledged that they continue to view Netflix warily. Even though long-held fears that the streaming service would cause cable and satellite subscribers to cancel en masse have not come to pass, the service remains a threat to the existing ecosystem.

Some channel owners may also balk at Netflix’s having a spot on set-top boxes because of the inherent competition between scheduled and on-demand shows, said Michael Nathanson, a senior analyst at the newly formed research firm MoffettNathanson.

But that competition will increasingly play out on TV sets as cable providers upgrade their technology and give subscribers newer, Internet-powered set-top boxes.

“We are rapidly moving toward an environment where every device in the home, including the big TV, is connected to the Internet,” said Alex Dudley, a spokesman for Charter, a cable company.

Hinting at a potential integration of Netflix, he added, “Charter is open to the myriad possibilities that could enhance the customer experience using that technology.”

Analysts said that if and when Netflix secures a distribution deal with one cable operator, others would probably soon follow. “This is like a new version of a programming negotiation,” said an executive with one operator.

Last month, cable distributors in Britain and Sweden paved the way by announcing their own Netflix integrations.

Comcast declined to comment on Monday. But the company’s discussions with Netflix revealed a sharp turn from just a year and a half ago, when it promoted a partial alternative to Netflix called Streampix for its customers. Back then, Comcast said it wanted to “give customers no reason to go anywhere else.”

Comcast has said relatively little about Streampix since. But the company has made significant strides with its distribution technology, thanks to X1, a next-generation set-top-box and software update that has been deployed in more than one million of the 22 million homes it serves. Through X1, Netflix could appear as an app, coexisting relatively peacefully with traditional TV.

Further into the future, Netflix’s library of TV episodes could be interwoven with other channels’ offerings, so a voice search — “I want to watch ‘The Walking Dead’ now” — could find old episodes from Netflix and the newest episodes from AMC, giving households who can afford both subscriptions a reason to keep both.
359 2013-10-15 Joan M. Jenness, 81, a retired schoolteacher who lives in Bridgton, Me., said she had been watching the rollout of the federal exchange “with fascination, muted horror and sympathy” for people struggling to use it.

“I am very glad that I do not have to worry about the exchange and health plans offered on the exchange, with their limited networks of doctors and hospitals,” said Ms. Jenness, who added that her experience with Medicare had been “very satisfactory.”

In a bulletin for older Americans, the Obama administration emphasized that people on Medicare did not have to worry about the exchanges, or marketplaces, where millions of Americans have been trying to shop for private insurance since Oct. 1.

The Medicare handbook, sent to beneficiaries last month, drove home the point, saying, “Medicare isn’t part of the marketplace.”

During the annual open enrollment period, which begins Tuesday, Medicare beneficiaries can sign up for Medicare Advantage plans offered by insurers like UnitedHealth and Humana and by Blue Cross and Blue Shield companies.

A recent government notice to Medicare beneficiaries says: “The health insurance marketplace is designed to help people who don’t have any health insurance. You have health insurance through Medicare. The marketplace won’t have any effect on your Medicare coverage.”

The open enrollment period for Medicare runs to Dec. 7 and overlaps with the open enrollment period for the exchanges, which is from Oct. 1 through March 31.

To minimize confusion, the administration said that people on Medicare “should make sure that they are reviewing Medicare plans and not marketplace options.”

The potential for confusion is substantial. A number of insurers have used the terms “gold,” “silver” or “platinum” for products sold to Medicare beneficiaries, and similar terms are now used in the exchange.

Humana Gold Plus is the name of a health maintenance organization for Medicare beneficiaries. Coventry Health Care, acquired this year by Aetna, offers Medicare H.M.O.’s known as Advantra Silver and Gold Advantage.

Anne M. Armao, a vice president of SummaCare, in Akron, Ohio, said the company had changed the names of its silver and gold Medicare Advantage plans to sapphire and emerald to avoid confusion with products offered on the exchange to people under 65.

In newspaper advertisements intended for Medicare beneficiaries last week, Bruce D. Broussard, the chief executive of Humana, said: “We want to reassure you that these changes won’t affect how you enroll in Medicare. So you can relax — there’s no need to worry.”

Humana has reason to be concerned about public confusion: it derives more than 60 percent of its revenue — $25 billion of $39 billion last year — from Medicare Advantage.

Judith A. Stein, the executive director of the nonprofit Center for Medicare Advocacy, said she had received many calls from beneficiaries who believed incorrectly that “because of Obamacare they have to make some change or have to go to the new marketplace.”
360 2013-10-15 “I’ve never seen a city embrace this at the highest levels,” said Ted L. Howard, the executive director of the Democracy Collaborative, an organization that focuses on community economic development efforts in cities nationwide. “There is an understanding here that institutions cannot succeed if the neighborhoods are collapsing.”

Mr. Jones is at pains to emphasize that the ambitious antipoverty plan is no theoretical exercise — even with limited resources, a corporate community that has yet to give the initiative a public embrace, and a portion of the black population, which makes up the vast majority of the poor in Richmond, that also remains skeptical.

The mayor has named the project the Maggie L. Walker Initiative for Fighting Poverty and Expanding Opportunity, after a pioneering black businesswoman here who was the country’s first female bank president. Urban renewal experts across the country are watching closely. Many cities, including Richmond, are only now emerging from the recession and are reluctant to increase budgets to aid the poor, particularly amid the intense pressure to reduce public spending in Washington and in state capitals.

That Mr. Jones, a Democrat, is leading the charge with such vigor has surprised some Richmond residents who had complained that the second-term mayor lacked the political will to take on contentious issues, and was too cozy with the city’s business community, long a dominant force in local politics.

But Mr. Jones, 65, said he had simply been waiting for the right moment. He grew comfortable with power, he said, while watching his father operate from the pulpit of his Philadelphia church and he was later steeped in black liberation theology, which employs the Gospels to confront social ills, including racism.

“I understood power very early,” said Mr. Jones, who was re-elected last November with 70 percent of the vote. “I understood — kind of almost organically understood — how power worked. I watched people. Churches are political places. I see my work here as a way to help people.”

The city Mr. Jones runs remains divided in many ways. New high-rises are going up downtown. There are plans for a minor-league baseball stadium. And trendy restaurants and bars attract young college graduates who are moving into the city’s new condominiums.

But across Interstate 95 on the city’s East End, vacant lots and boarded-up houses are commonplace. Poverty in the city, concentrated in the East End, is at 26.3 percent, compared with 15.9 percent nationally. Nearly half of Richmond’s population of 210,000 lives in poverty or is at significant risk of falling into it.

Perhaps more dauntingly, 25 percent of the jobs in Richmond pay less than $11.72 an hour — the level economists say is needed to lift a family of four out of poverty.

Mr. Jones said that when he arrived from Philadelphia more than 40 years ago to attend Virginia Union, a historically black university, he had had no intention of staying. The city moved too slowly, he said, and although Richmond was no longer legally segregated, the racial lines were clear. He once took a young woman on a date to a movie theater that had previously been whites-only, but that African-Americans had continued to avoid. The woman, he said, was surprised and impressed by his choice, but as an outsider, he said, he had not known any better.

He had left Philadelphia to avoid the call to the pulpit that three generations of Joneses before him had heard. “I was trying to get away from it,” he said, unaware at the time of Virginia Union’s Baptist roots.

Mr. Jones eventually became senior pastor at the First Baptist Church of South Richmond, where he continues to preach once a month, though he has passed most church duties on to his son, Derik Jones, 36, who was elected to the city’s school board in November. Mayor Jones also served on the city’s school board as well as in the State House of Delegates.

Mr. Jones said his inclination had always been to be a conciliator.

“After the civil rights movement you had a choice — you could either continue to protest or you could make the decision to become integrated into the systems of government or the systems of business and maintain a commitment to help people rise above where they are,” he said. “And I found that I could do much more sitting around the table than I could do in other ways — so by being in the room, you really have an opportunity to make things happen.”

But the discussion, particularly the plan to tear down public housing, has created nervousness in Richmond’s poorest neighborhoods, even though Mr. Jones has said that no one will be left without a home. However, everyone who lives in the proposed new housing — some of which has been completed — will be required to work or undergo job training.

“By the time they finish with these mixed-income developments, the people living there now won’t be able to live there anymore,” said Spencer E. Jones III, 63, a lifelong Richmond resident.

In spite of the deep racial divisions in Richmond, Mr. Jones has managed to remain popular among both the wealthier white residents and the black population — nearly one-third of which lives in poverty. The business community, a key mayoral ally, has had a mixed response to the poverty initiative, however, as decisions about how to finance it from the city budget remain months away.

“It has been a bold move by the mayor and he’s been thoughtful about how he’s approached it,” said Greg Wingfield, the president and chief executive of the Greater Richmond Partnership, a public-private regional economic development organization. “This isn’t a show horse kind of event for him. He has used his position to support a population that has traditionally not had a voice at the table.”

But a spokesman for the area’s biggest company, Altria — the parent firm of Philip Morris USA, the nation’s largest tobacco company — said that while Altria was “involved in many initiatives in the Richmond community,” it had “no direct involvement in the poverty initiative.”

With characteristic aplomb, Mr. Jones insisted he was unbothered.

“It’s like a rolling snowball,” he said, smiling. “We’ll pick up momentum as the ball goes down the hill. It didn’t happen overnight, it’s not going to change overnight.”
361 2013-10-15 Scientists and engineers are creating a world in which cars drive themselves, machines recognize people and humanoid robots travel unattended....
362 2013-10-15 Not-so-good news: Enrollment centers for the new phase of PreCheck have been slow to roll out, and I question the T.S.A.’s optimism about having 25 percent of fliers eligible by January. (Because of the shutdown, the agency isn’t responding to queries.) Also, while the agency says it trains screeners to provide security courteously — and a great majority do just that — I sometimes encounter surly screeners who bark orders at passengers, especially in those body-scan lanes that impose a degree of submissiveness. A recent Government Accountability Office analysis found a 26 percent increase in T.S.A. misconduct reports in the 2012 fiscal year.

Solution: Keep checking to see if your airport or airline has expanded or begun PreCheck access. If you don’t now have PreCheck eligibility (Global Entry membership makes you eligible, incidentally) check the T.S.A. site to see when new enrollment centers will open. As to those rude screeners, my admittedly imperfect solution is to insist that a screener barking orders in my face must also say “Please” and “Thank you.” But so far, I have resisted the impulse to ask the rude ones what kind of boot camp they grew up in.

ELECTRONIC DEVICES Good news: A Federal Aviation Administration advisory committee recently issued long-awaited recommendations that would relax many rules against using personal electronic devices when planes are below 10,000 feet. The recommendations did not include relaxing prohibitions on talking on cellphones during flights. “Voice is not included in the scope of this,” Kirk Thornburg, a committee member, said in early September at the convention of the Airline Passenger Experience Association about the coming recommendations. I noticed that the people in the room, a constituency of airline executives and vendors, practically applauded upon hearing this assurance.

Not so good news: I’ve noticed that more users enjoying videos or music on personal devices play them so loudly that they annoy those nearby, even when the user has headphones on — a confirmation that some people’s music is other people’s racket.

Solution: Sorry, but the best I can do on this one, since it involves social behavior, is to quote the theologian Reinhold Niebuhr: “God, give us grace to accept with serenity the things that cannot be changed.”

AIRLINES IN GENERAL Good news: Chronic flight delays have disappeared. Airlines have become so good at baggage handling that the rates of lost bags (never very high to begin with) have dropped steadily. Airlines like American are buying new planes with more overhead bin space. In international premium-class travel, the supposedly long-gone Golden Age of Flying, I would submit, is now, with lie-flat beds and fancy food and drink. And corporate travel managers are generally allowing business travelers across the board to upgrade to better seats.

Not-so-good news: Airline executives now boast about their new “up-sell” revenue, while passengers are left with slim choices for coach seat assignments at the posted base fares. More and more, large areas of the coach cabins with the better (or less awful) seats are essentially roped off for those who choose to buy a better seat for an extra fee.

Solution: As the Mafia used to say, pay up if you wish to avoid further discomfort.
363 2013-10-15 The credit is due to the Icelandic-born Mr. Tomasson, 71, who has made new work a central tenet of his artistic policy since he took over the company in 1985.

“It goes way back, to when I first came to New York to study,” he said by telephone from San Francisco. “I joined the Joffrey Ballet, where Robert Joffrey was really the first ballet director to be bringing in choreographers like Alvin Ailey and Glen Tetley. It was fascinating to me, and I think that ignited something in me that stayed.”

In 1970, Mr. Tomasson joined New York City Ballet, where he was a principal dancer for 15 years. “You had Balanchine and Robbins doing new work all the time,” he said. “For me it was the norm, and when I went to San Francisco, I knew that my main idea was to search for something new all the time.”

Mr. Tomasson emphasized his respect for tradition; the company has an extensive Balanchine repertory, performs the classics and does the obligatory “Nutcracker” season every December. But his programs tell where his heart lies; as is true of this New York tour, a majority (usually six out of eight each year) are mixed repertory. And yes, they sell well, he said, sounding mildly surprised.

“Even in the recession, they didn’t buy less tickets,” he said. “They like this work, and they get to see so many more principal dancers perform than in a full-length ballet, where you really only have two or three.”

Mr. Tomasson spends considerable time each year traveling in order to see new work. He said that he looks for choreographers with a good knowledge of the classical vocabulary, but that he is open to different aesthetics, citing the work of William Forsythe and Mr. McGregor.  Not every work gets raves, but Mr. Tomasson is phlegmatic: “You keep at it, and hopefully good ballets will pop up,” he said.

The company commissions three or four new ballets a year, on average (this season there will be premieres from Val Caniparoli, Mr. Tomasson and the rising young British choreographer Liam Scarlett), and Mr. Tomasson said that he tries to present something new to West Coast audiences in each program, even if it is not a company commission. Later this season, Mr. Ratamanksy’s ambitious “Shostakovich Trilogy,” created for American Ballet Theater, joins the company’s repertory.

“Yes, he does hire people you see elsewhere,” said Mr. Wheeldon, whose 2010 “Ghosts” will be performed in New York for the first time during this run. “But there is always some sort of coup with Helgi. He doesn’t bring things in because they are in fashion; he brings what he believes in, which is impressive.”

That belief is apparent in the regularity with which Mr. Tomasson offers certain choreographers repeat commissions. Mr. Morris has created eight pieces for the company since “Maelstrom” in 1994; his most recent, “Beaux,” described by Alastair Macaulay in The New York Times as “the happiest rethink of masculinity that ballet has seen in decades,” will be shown during the troupe’s New York season.

For his part, Mr. Morris said in a telephone interview: “I think they are fabulous, in many ways the best ballet company we’ve got. They do my work the way I intend it to be done. Helgi, pretty much alone amidst big ballet directors who choreograph, is noncompetitive. He is completely hands-off, trusts the people he hires and has curated an excellent group of dancers. Working with them has decided how I work with ballet companies in general.”

Mr. Morris said he had created the all-male “Beaux,” set to music by Bohuslav Martinu, partly in response to the demands of San Francisco’s schedule on dancers. (His other reason, he said, was that he was “tired of the fake virility in ballet.”)

Unlike most ballet companies, which alternate rehearsal and performance periods throughout a season, San Francisco has a marathon rehearsal period from August to December, then performs continuously through May.

“It can be really tricky with scheduling,” Mr. Morris said. “I think it’s really hard on the dancers to learn so many ballets at once.”

Mr. Wheeldon, who is almost up to Mr. Morris’s tally, with seven pieces for the company since 2000, said he felt the long rehearsal period was conducive to creativity.

“It’s long, but very focused,” he said. “There is more time to play around, a longer gestation period, and the dancers are so used to making new work that they are the perfect tools for a choreographer.”
364 2013-10-15 Empire World is just one example of what has been a highly effective campaign by Kurdish leaders to make Erbil a haven for Western business in a tumultuous country.

Already, the hotel industry is expanding to serve the increase in business activity. Marriott, for example, the first American hotel chain in Erbil, is part of the Empire World development and is scheduled to open a hotel in 2015. Best Western, Kempinski, Hilton and other international chains are also planning hotels in Erbil, with Divan, a Turkish company, and Rotana, a United Arab Emirates company, already operating high-end hotels opposite the Empire World site.

Ms. Brilz, a native of Canada who moved here in 2011, said that relatives and friends had expressed concerns. “All people see about Iraq back home is on CNN and it is all bombing in Baghdad, and there is very little about Kurdistan.” She added: “I drive a car here. I have no issues here, and it is completely safe, even as a woman.”

Describing Empire World as “a city within a city,” she said that the development was already affecting business travel in and out of Erbil.

Airlines have increased the number of flights going to the city, according to Andrew Jones, commercial adviser for Erbil International Airport. A British native who moved to Kurdistan in 2010, Mr. Jones said 23 airlines connected Erbil to 15 countries. The city had been serviced by an interim airport, constructed by the United States military on an airstrip originally laid out by Saddam Hussein for the 1980s war against Iran and for attacks during the Anfal, his period of repression when about 180,000 Kurds were killed.

In 2010, a new terminal was opened, bringing the airport up to Western standards. Mr. Jones said, “When the new airport opened, it was like a slingshot” for air traffic in and out of Erbil. He said 947,600 passengers came through the airport in 2012, counting both domestic and international flights, a 53 percent increase over 2011.

Mr. Jones said Erbil’s airport represented physical and symbolic change for the city. “The airport was at one time a means of oppression, because it was for Saddam’s forces,” he said, “but now, it is a site of liberation because it connects Kurdistan to the world.”

With the expanding Kurdish economy, companies have struggled to recruit workers.

“We find it hard to find skilled technicians,” said Hal Miran, 34, a Kurdistan native who was raised in Britain and returned in 2010. He is managing director of MSelect, the largest staffing company in Iraq, with headquarters in Erbil.

“This is to be expected because of what the country went through,” he said. “Kurds were not allowed under Saddam to work in the oil industry, so these skills were not part of the culture.”

Mr. Miran said that the most important sectors for his company were oil, construction and retail, and his clients included Exxon Mobil, Chevron, Standard Chartered, the French cement company LaFarge and other international companies.

Even small entrepreneurs are finding opportunities. Julio Dumar, 40, a native of Colombia, came to Erbil in 1997, originally to work for a nongovernmental organization. Seeing an unserved niche, he started a coffee importing company in 2010.

“I am from a coffee country and the best product we have in Colombia is coffee,” Mr. Dumar said. He works throughout Kurdistan and also in Basra in southern Iraq, but not in Baghdad. Erbil’s advantage, he said, is “security and safety.”

“It’s easier to work from here, but because I speak Kurdish, I can manage to do paperwork for myself, and save thousands, maybe a couple of hundred, of dollars myself,” he said.

Mr. Dumar added that “payments and bureaucracies can be difficult.”

“The K.R.G. says it is easy, but it is just not that easy,” he said, referring to the Kurdish Regional Government, the governing body of the Kurdish region.

Additionally, he said that while visas for businesspeople from Europe, the Middle East and North America were easy to apply for, they were more difficult for South Americans, even as Venezuelans arrive to work for the oil industry. For stays under 14 days, travelers from the United States, Canada and most of Europe receive visas at the Erbil airport, requiring no paperwork.

For now, business travel seems healthy despite the recent attacks. Jeremy Oliver, 35, is a logistics and security consultant for ZSS, a division of the Zagros Group, who has lived in Erbil since 2009 after previously living in Baghdad. Mr. Oliver, a Texas native, said that since the bombing, “the climate hasn’t changed for the big oil companies.”

“They increased their security,” he said, which he indicated had helped his company.

“You can either ignore it or look it in the eye and deal with it; people here are intolerant of this kind of thing,” Mr. Oliver added. Through roadblocks and an intense manhunt, Mr. Oliver said, the K.R.G. had arrested three people suspected in the bombing and showed their images on television. “Everybody feels safe again. For the most part everything has gone back to normal,” he said.
365 2013-10-15 To predict where viruses are going, it helps to look at where they’ve been....
366 2013-10-15 “The Walking Dead” is officially devouring the rest of television.

The horror drama on AMC shattered its own ratings records for cable programs on Sunday night, with the premiere of its fourth season. At the same time, it surpassed everything else that has been on television this season so far in its appeal to the viewers sought by most advertisers, those between the ages of 18 and 49.

The premiere was seen by 16.1 million viewers, far surpassing the show’s previous record for cable entertainment programs, which was 12.4 million viewers. (By contrast the finale of “Breaking Bad” reached 10.3 million.) “Dead” attracted 10.4 million viewers in that 18-to-49 group — an enormous total even surpassing any N.F.L. game this season.

To illustrate the supremacy “Walking Dead” has achieved, its rating in the 18-to-49 category was an 8.2. The top score by any other entertainment show this season came during the first night of “The Big Bang Theory” on CBS, when the special episode at 8:30 p.m. reached a 6.1 rating in the 18-to-49 group.

“Walking Dead” managed this despite the presence Sunday night of two potent sports attractions, NBC’s regular “Sunday Night Football” game and a thrilling postseason baseball game between the Tigers and the Red Sox.

Even the show’s talk-show companion series, “Talking Dead,” posted numbers most networks would covet: 5.1 million viewers and a 2.6 rating in the 18-to-49 category.

Before Sunday night, every top-rated show this season had been an N.F.L. game. Now zombies are apparently more appealing than quarterbacks.
367 2013-10-15 Modules dropped to 35 percent of system costs in 2013, down from 53 percent in 2010, while labor, engineering and permitting rose to 15 percent from 9 percent in the same time period, according to Greentech Media, which tracks the industry.

For all that the industry promotes its innovations, the business of mounting panels on the ground has remained largely the same for years, a process adapted from smaller rooftop arrays that use metal racks to hold the panels in position. In an expensive, time-consuming process that can demand hundreds of hands and millions of screws, workers clear and level the ground, drive in metal posts and attach and wire the heavy, glass-encased modules. Projects can frequently run into delays when, say, the wrong bolts show up at the site.

After the panels are installed, it can be expensive to keep them free of the dirt or growing vegetation that can block sunlight and reduce their output. That task often falls to crews of workers driving along the rows of panels, which can stretch for miles, to clean or trim around each one.

Several companies are developing or selling robots to aid in installation or cleaning, including the Swiss outfit Serbot, which makes robots that can wash the windows of glass skyscrapers as well as clean solar arrays.

Another start-up based in California, QBotix, has developed a robot that controls tracking operations, moving along an array and tilting the panels to follow the sun and maximize their output. Getting as much as 40 percent more electricity out of each panel than in a fixed-tilt system, said Wasiq Bokhari, the company’s chief executive, allows developers to build smaller, cheaper systems to meet their energy production targets.

“The solar market is very competitive, and people literally fight over single cents per watt, so by allowing such a dramatic decrease in overall power plant costs, we are bringing a lot of value to the market,” he said. The systems are now installed in five farms in the United States and Japan, with more scheduled to go in before the end of the year.

Alion’s installation system is designed to work on uneven ground, executives said, cutting down on the need to level acres of fields. First, a machine used to lay sidewalks and gutters spits out a long concrete track. After the track sets, Rover, which resembles an industrial warehouse cart on caterpillar tracks, installs the panels and glues them in place. Human workers then wire the panels into the system.

Spot can be controlled with a smartphone and runs on a solar-powered battery. It rolls along the rails beneath the panels, squirting water and passing over them with a spinning brush and a squeegee. It also has a standard hedge trimmer attachment that can cut vegetation from the ground.

The promise of automation is not only to reduce the cost of labor, but also to cut construction time — to 12 weeks from six to eight months in some cases — which also reduces the amount of time developers would be accumulating interest on a loan, said Mark Kingsley the chief executive at Alion.

“Like most industries, when you really do disruptive change of cost, you change materials and you change design concept,” said Mr. Kingsley, who was chief commercial officer of the Chinese panel-maker Trina Solar and led the robotics unit at ABB, a Swiss power and automation technology giant. “And that’s what we did: we changed materials from steel to concrete and we changed the methodology from manual to automation.”

The company has attracted some positive attention from analysts. “What’s exciting with Alion is that they’ve automated the entire process,” said Vishal Sapru, energy and environment research manager at the business consulting firm Frost & Sullivan, which recently gave Alion an award for innovation. “You reduce the number of days. You reduce the number of laborers. You reduce the number of inefficiencies that could arise in putting up these panels, and then it results in a huge cost savings.”

He cautioned that it was unclear precisely how much the technology would save — the company says it can reduce overall installation costs by 75 percent, while German companies that do similar work put their estimates closer to 50 percent, Mr. Sapru said. But he said that whatever the savings, it would benefit the industry and help relieve the price pressure on solar panel manufacturers.

Back at Alion’s headquarters, efforts to squeeze even more expense out of the system continue. A leaner, more nimble model of Rover that requires less concrete — known as the Jackal for now — lies in wait, while a second-generation Spot is in the works.

“The goal is not robotics,” but to beat the price of natural gas, Mr. Kingsley said, as the machines continued moving inexorably along the south-facing rows, with the panels Spot cleaned suddenly producing about 12.5 percent more electricity. “You have to be lean and pretty low cost to meet that.”
368 2013-10-15 A take on a classic Balkan dish made more substantial with quinoa or bulgur....
369 2013-10-15 Using the postal service to bail out Alitalia “is not protectionism, but it was the way to go into negotiations with international partners,” Mr. Letta said. He described it as “a negotiation able to create a big group at an international level,” with Air France-KLM being the first negotiating partners.

“I can understand the critics,” Mr. Letta said, but Italy’s goal is “to have a big international group, without any protectionism.”

Air France-KLM’s reluctance to declare its intentions toward its Italian partner has left some analysts bracing for a protracted period of uncertainty as Alitalia struggles to define a viable long-term strategy before it finds itself at the brink of bankruptcy once more.

“Air France management have got to be looking at this very, very cautiously,” said Daniel Solon, an independent airline analyst in Barcelona. “It’s tricky for them both financially and politically.”

Shares of Air France-KLM were down about 2 percent in midday trading in Paris on Monday, the first session since the Alitalia board approved the rescue plan.

Alitalia’s board was to meet Monday afternoon in Rome to approve the plan formally before presenting it to a vote of all of the airline’s shareholders. In addition to Air France-KLM, the group of investors includes nearly two dozen Italian companies like Banca Intesa Sanpaolo, the toll road operator Atlantia and the tire maker Pirelli.

The terms of the rescue plan gave shareholders until mid-November to declare how many new shares they intended to purchase, though some were expected to do so right away.

Air France-KLM, which is undergoing a painful restructuring of its own, faces a difficult choice on Alitalia.

Five years ago during the Italian carrier’s last brush with bankruptcy, Air France-KLM sought to acquire Alitalia. At the time, Italian political opposition to the sale of a national icon to a foreign owner led to a compromise that left the French-Dutch group exposed to Alitalia’s troubles — but with limited ability to influence strategy as the Italian carrier struggled to confront intense competition from low-cost rivals like Ryanair and Easyjet.

“I was always convinced that Alitalia standing alone was the worst thing for the country,” said Mr. Letta, who became prime minister only earlier this year. Five years ago he was undersecretary of state in the center-left government led by Romano Prodi, which had supported the takeover of the company by Air France-KLM. At the time, Mr. Letta had been closely involved in the negotiations, which broke down over union demands aimed at protecting jobs at the Italian carrier.

“I was completely against what happened in 2008,” Mr. Letta said Monday.

Italy is “a phenomenally tough market in which to run an airline,” Andrew Lobbenberg, an analyst with HSBC in London, said in a recent note to clients. And while Air France-KLM is eager to maintain Italy as an effective home market, he said, neither Rome nor Milan, its major population centers, is sufficiently dominant to serve as a cost-effective hub for either domestic or international traffic.

Opposition to accepting a foreign lifeline, meanwhile, has waned as the Italian economy has faltered and the number of domestic investors with sufficient resources to revive Alitalia has dwindled. A number of Italian politicians and industrialists were openly calling last week for Air France-KLM to increase its stake or even take full control of Alitalia.

Analysts remained skeptical that Air France-KLM would be willing to significantly increase its exposure unless it could extract a commitment to a drastic and politically unpalatable shrinkage of Alitalia’s operations that would probably include sharp reductions to its work force of 14,000.

But some said the French-Dutch carrier could be willing to purchase enough new shares — roughly 75 million euros’ worth — to maintain its 25 percent stake and its four seats on the Alitalia board.

“That’s still a relatively modest investment — less than you might pay for an airplane,” Mr. Solon said. “They just might be willing to put that one poker chip on the table and see if it gets them any influence over a notional next step.”

Mr. Letta, when asked about prospects for Air France-KLM to increase its stake in the Italian carrier, said: “We will start the negotiations. Of course, what I want to do, this is why the decision last week, we want a negotiation, but we don’t want to go with our hat in hand.”
370 2013-10-15 BEIJING — China’s annual consumer inflation rate rose to a seven-month high of 3.1 percent in September, as poor weather drove up food prices, limiting room for the central bank to maneuver to support the economy, and exports unexpectedly declined.

But few analysts expect a further sharp rise in inflation or policy tightening in coming months as China faces a weak global environment and Beijing tries to reduce credit-fueled investment.

The inflation rate was higher than a median forecast of 2.9 percent in a Reuters poll and the 2.6 percent rate posted in August, but it was still below the official target of 3.5 percent for 2013.

Zhiwei Zhang, China economist in Hong Kong for Nomura, said that he expected inflation to rise further in the fourth quarter and saw “rising risks that it may rise above 3.5 percent for some months in 2014.” The rise of inflation, however, leaves little room for policy easing, he said, because benchmark interest rates are already low. At the same time, analysts see little risk of a credit-tightening effort, given that inflation was below the full-year target.

Month-on-month, consumer prices rose 0.8 percent, the National Bureau of Statistics said. Food prices increased 1.5 percent in September from August as a result of droughts and floods in some areas, pushing consumer inflation up 0.51 percentage point, Yu Qiumei, a senior statistician at the bureau, said in a statement. In annual terms, food prices jumped 6.1 percent.
371 2013-10-16 Confronting stagnant poll numbers and a lackluster debate performance, Joseph J. Lhota, the Republican nominee, is hoping an aggressive new advertisement can refocus the mayoral race on public safety....
372 2013-10-16 Germany’s delay of a plan to reduce carbon emissions on vehicles starting in 2020 has been criticized by environmental groups....
373 2013-10-16 The Senate minority leader speaks about the bipartisan bill to reopen the government and avoid default.
374 2013-10-16 The hedge fund industry’s many larger-than-life billionaires have made names for themselves by making bold bets, but they do not seem to be playing the angles in the political impasse over the federal debt ceiling....
375 2013-10-16 Has the default already begun? Macy’s decides to open on Thanksgiving. Our tweets are getting shorter!...
376 2013-10-16 New firms aim to help buyers determine clear title and provenance of artworks....
377 2013-10-16 The Chinese actor and director Jiang Wen, the German filmmaker Volker Schlöndorff and the veteran French producer Jean-Louis Piel — who each had a hand in 1994′s “In the Heat of the Sun,” considered a landmark of Chinese filmmaking — re...
378 2013-10-16 Second-seeded Sloane Stephens of the United States beat Timea Bacsinszky of Switzerland, 6-3, 6-3, to reach the second round of the Luxembourg Open.

■ Vasek Pospisil of Canada defeated Lleyton Hewitt of Australia, 7-6 (6), 6-4, in the first round of the Erste Bank Open in Vienna. Pospisil will play Robin Haase, who topped Ilija Bozoljac of Serbia, 5-7, 6-2, 6-2.
379 2013-10-16 Hundreds of people are dying in military detention from shootings, suffocation or starvation as Nigeria’s security forces crack down on an Islamic uprising in the northeast, Amnesty International said Tuesday. Over 950 people died in military custody in the first six months of this year, according to “credible information” from a senior Nigerian Army officer, the rights group said. If the number is accurate, Nigeria’s military has killed more civilians than the militants did during the first half of 2013. Amnesty International called for an investigation.
380 2013-10-16 Despite another last-place finish, the Colorado Rockies liked what Walt Weiss did with an injured team in his rookie season as manager and rewarded him with a three-year contract on Tuesday. Weiss went 74-88, a 10-game improvement over the previous season. He was a former shortstop who spent 14 seasons in the major leagues and managed Colorado on a one-year deal in 2013 after Jim Tracy stepped down.

■ A man with a handgun approached the mother of the Hall of Famer Cal Ripken in a bank parking lot in Maryland and demanded her car, but she activated a key alarm and he left, the police said. The mother, Vi Ripken, 75, was not hurt and a suspect is now in custody. Charges are pending. Last year, Vi Ripken reported being kidnapped from her Aberdeen, Md., home. She returned 24 hours later. No one was arrested.
381 2013-10-16 The Replacements, Kiss, Linda Ronstadt, Peter Gabriel and Yes are among the other nominees....
382 2013-10-16 Re “Out of Network, Out of Luck” (Sunday Review, Oct. 13):

Theresa Brown’s description of the callous treatment of patients as fallout of the scramble for market share among health care providers, both individual and corporate, in the Pittsburgh area is yet another reminder of the sorry state of health care in the United States. The cause is obvious.

In the United States, health care, which should be a basic right like the right to vote, is a business, and as any business school professor will tell you, profit is the holy grail. Unless we find the political will to change this situation, patient care will remain just another factor in the constant effort to improve the bottom line.
383 2013-10-16 A federal judge in New York who once tried to stop the collection worldwide of an $18 billion environmental judgment against Chevron began hearing evidence on Tuesday in the oil company’s bid to block collection in the United States.

The judge, Lewis A. Kaplan of Federal District Court for Southern Manhattan, listened as Chevron’s attorney, Randy Mastro, argued that a lawyer for a group of indigenous inhabitants of the Amazon rain forest fraudulently won the judgment two years ago in Ecuador. Mr. Mastro said that if Chevron lost the case, “it will be open season on U.S. companies in corrupt foreign jurisdictions.”

Mr. Mastro contended that the plaintiff’s lawyer, Steven Donziger, “masterminded and orchestrated” a scheme that involved multiple acts of wire and mail fraud, extortion, bribery, witness tampering and money laundering.

Mr. Donziger’s lawyer, Richard Friedman, portrayed Mr. Donziger as a hero to the plaintiffs, who were injured by oil pollution left by Texaco, Chevron’s predecessor oil company in Ecuador. Texaco operated an oil consortium from 1972 to 1990 in the Amazon and became a wholly owned subsidiary of Chevron in 2001.

“He was trying to hold a multinational corporation responsible for the environmental harm to a third-world country,” Mr. Friedman said. “He’s here because he managed to get justice for his clients.”

A month after the Ecuadorean judgment was issued, Judge Kaplan blocked it. The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Manhattan reversed his order, saying the judge did not have authority “to dictate to the entire world which judgments are entitled to respect and which countries’ courts are to be treated as international pariahs.”

The appeals court did say Judge Kaplan had authority to block collection if Ecuadorean plaintiffs moved against Chevron in New York.
384 2013-10-16 But Mark D. Rosenbaum, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union, which represents a group of applicants, students and faculty members, said Proposal 2 violated equal protection principles by restructuring the state’s political process and making it harder for disfavored minorities to press for change.

The court seemed divided along ideological lines.

“It’s not a racial classification,” Justice Antonin Scalia said of the ballot initiative. “It’s the prohibition of racial classifications.”

Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg saw matters differently. “We can’t put hurdles in the way of a disadvantaged minority,” she said.

The lawyers, for their part, offered varying accounts of the impact of Proposal 2 and similar measures. Mr. Bursch said minority admissions in Michigan were affected only modestly in the year after Proposal 2 was adopted. Later statistics are unreliable, he said, because many students chose not to identify themselves as members of a single racial or ethnic group on a new form.

In California, which banned race-conscious admissions plans at the state’s public universities in 1996, “what they discovered was that underrepresented minority students have higher G.P.A.’s, that they take more technology, engineering and math classes, and they have a graduation rate that is 20 to 25 percent higher than it was before,” Mr. Bursch said. Texas, he said, saw similar trends in the years that affirmative action programs were barred there.

“What the California and Texas experiences have demonstrated is that there are good, positive reasons why the voters might want to try a race-neutral alternative,” Mr. Bursch said.

Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. went further, asking whether some minority students actually suffered a disadvantage by being admitted into academic settings where they could not thrive. He referred to research on this “mismatch” theory from Richard Sander and Stuart Taylor Jr., who had filed a brief supporting Michigan.

“Do we have to assume in your favor that these definitely are beneficial to particular minority groups?” Chief Justice Roberts asked, referring to race-conscious admissions plans.

Shanta Driver, a lawyer for the Coalition to Defend Affirmative Action, Integration and Immigrant Rights and Fight for Equality By Any Means Necessary, responded: “Certainly the minority voters of Michigan believe them to be, because 90 percent of black voters in Michigan voted against” the ballot measure there.

“If you look at the law schools, the medical schools, the professional schools now in the state of Michigan, there’s been a precipitous drop in underrepresented minority enrollment in those schools,” she continued. “We are going back to the resegregation of those schools because of the elimination of affirmative action.”

More generally, she said, the Michigan measure is unconstitutional because it fails “to protect minority rights against a white majority.”

The statement provoked a sharp response from Justice Scalia. “My goodness,” he said, “I thought we’ve held that the 14th Amendment protects all races. I mean, that was the argument in the early years, that it protected the blacks. But I thought we rejected that.”

In 1969 and 1982, the Supreme Court struck down measures disfavoring minorities on the grounds that they unfairly restructured the political process. Those precedents may be at risk in the new case, and much of the argument was devoted to their precise meaning and whether they could be reconciled with a decision endorsing the Michigan measure.

Chief Justice Roberts and Justices Anthony M. Kennedy and Samuel A. Alito Jr. all asked questions that tried to test what principle distinguishes an ordinary law from one that impermissibly restructures the political process. They did not seem satisfied with most of the responses they received.

Justice Sonia Sotomayor offered her own response: she said any measure that upset “normal academic decision making” was suspect.

Justice Alito did not seem persuaded by what he called “Justice Sotomayor’s answer to my question.” But he did propose another answer. “If you change the allocation of power in one of these less substantial ways, that’s one thing,” he said. “But when you require a constitutional amendment, that’s really a big deal.”

Should the Supreme Court strike down the Michigan measure, its ruling could also invalidate California’s ban, along with ones in Arizona, Florida, Oklahoma, Nebraska, New Hampshire and Washington.

Tuesday’s argument was heard by an eight-member court. Justice Elena Kagan recused herself, presumably because she had worked on the case as United States solicitor general. The federal government, which supported the University of Texas in the case decided in June, took no position in the new one, Schuette v. Coalition to Defend Affirmative Action, No. 12-682.
385 2013-10-16 Johnson & Johnson reported better-than-expected third-quarter earnings on Tuesday, as strong growth for prescription drugs overshadowed weaker contributions from its medical device and consumer products businesses.

“The company’s pharmaceuticals division is really well placed with lots of new drug launches at a time when the company is not facing many patent expirations on its other medicines,” a Morningstar analyst, Damien Conover, said. “And we expect to see more of this strength in the next several quarters.”

But sales of the company’s medical devices were hurt by patients’ continuing reluctance to undergo elective surgeries and other procedures in a weak economy. Division sales fell 2 percent to $6.93 billion.

“The weakness in devices appears to be broad-based, with not just one thing bringing them down,” Judson Clark, an analyst at Edward Jones said, adding that the unit’s weakest category was medical diagnostics.

J.& J.’s chief financial officer, Dominic J. Caruso, said on a conference call with analysts and investors that there had been a pickup in overall economic activity, “but certainly not to the level we had hoped.”

Johnson & Johnson reported net earnings of $2.98 billion, or $1.04 a share, for the third quarter, compared with $2.97 billion, or $1.05 a share a year earlier.
386 2013-10-16 The Coca-Cola Company reported a higher quarterly profit on Tuesday and said it was on track to achieve its goal of doubling its 2010 “system revenue,” which includes its sales and those of its bottlers, by 2020.

Muhtar A. Kent, the chief executive of the world’s largest soft drink company, said in a conference call with analysts and investors that Coca-Cola would proceed by investing in its brands and seeking acquisitions.

“There’s some headwind in emerging markets, but we believe they are very temporary” because the middle class in those countries is growing, he said.

In the third quarter, Coca-Cola’s net income rose 6 percent to $2.45 billion, or 54 cents a share, from $2.31 billion, or 50 cents a share, a year earlier.

Excluding one-time items, the company reported earnings of 53 cents a share, in line with the expectations of analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters.
387 2013-10-16 He settled on a “Retirement Income portfolio E.T.F.” consisting of exchange-traded funds, examining how the portfolio would do in bull and bear markets. He was especially concerned with “drawdown” or the amount an investment could decline from peaks to valleys in market cycles.

Mr. Adamy chose his portfolio for the relatively small drawdown, meaning it was unlikely to lose as much as the overall stock market in a major decline. The portfolio is also “tactical,” meaning it can adapt to market conditions, although its risk level is moderate.

John Zhong, who created the portfolio for the Web site, included E.T.F.’s that focused on dividend-growth appreciation, bonds and real estate investment trusts from around the world. “My portfolio sacrificed return for lower drawdown,” Mr. Adamy said, adding: “My wife won’t have to worry about a thing. I don’t want my wife to suffer through gut-wrenching portfolio declines during bear markets.”

In a novel approach to portfolio management, Mr. Adamy needed the services of a “trade administrator” to buy and sell E.T.F.’s. Unlike a conventional broker, the administrator would just transact trades, not offer advice, and be bound by a specific set of instructions to maintain the portfolio.

Mr. Adamy is working with Marc Wilborn, a fee-based registered investment adviser with Boulder Wealth Management in Overland Park, Kan. As the trade administrator, Mr. Wilborn makes only trades and will work with Sharon Adamy if her husband dies or is incapacitated. Mr. Wilborn does monthly rebalancing by making trades that conform to Adamy’s allocation to specific E.T.F.’s. He is paid a flat $250 per quarter for the service.

“Marc calculates the number of shares to be bought and sold to effect the rebalance to MyPlanIQ specified percentages, then executes the trades,” Mr. Adamy said.

Mr. Wilborn said he had no discretion to make trades on his own,” but I can provide feedback. I execute strategy.”

Since Mr. Wilborn isn’t on commission, he has no incentive to trade or pitch other financial products in the current relationship, which he calls a “pilot.”

How would a survivor portfolio work long term? You would need to define what your objectives were and what conditions would trigger changes in the portfolio. You’d also need to know how your chosen portfolio might perform over time in up and down markets. Risk calibration is a must.

Most important, you need to document directions on how you want the portfolio managed. Would you need the trade administrator to go into cash if the market declined a certain percentage? What if stocks reached a frothy valuation level? Should your survivor stay in the market?

Stephen Horan, managing director and colead of education of the CFA Institute, said it was important that “you leave behind directions and plan for contingencies. You don’t want to have everything on autopilot.”

It also may be a problem if your spouse or partner doesn’t want to bother with an intermediary or make portfolio changes after you’re gone.

In that case, Mr. Horan suggests that life insurance may be a better vehicle to provide for future financial needs. He also recommends that everyone, including third parties, draft an investment policy statement, a document that specifically details investment allocations, risk and other objectives.

In any case, because of the complexity of creating and maintaining a portfolio, if you choose this route, it’s probably best to use it for relatively small portion of your wealth. It may prove unwieldy for your survivors and executor of your estate. Mr. Adamy, who owns other assets like hedge funds, has only 5 percent of his total assets in the income portfolio.

Anyone setting up a survivor portfolio ideally would be someone with well-defined investment objectives who understands the various kinds of risk. Having several decades of investing experience — in bull and bear markets — is also a big plus. This wouldn’t work for someone who has jumped in and out of the market, relied exclusively upon brokers for discretionary security selection or doesn’t have a specific strategy.

What if you’re just not a D.I.Y. investor? It still makes sense to come up with some kind of master plan for long-term wealth management. Scanning some of the portfolios online could give you some ideas, which you could discuss with someone you trust who has no interest in selling you financial products.

It would make sense to work directly with a registered investment adviser, certified financial planner, chartered financial analyst or other fiduciary adviser. You’d also need to confer with an estate-planning lawyer to see how your portfolio fits into your overall estate and financial plan.
388 2013-10-16 Intel reported earnings on Tuesday that were slightly lower than the same quarter a year ago, reflecting a drop in demand for personal computers.

The company reported that net income in the third quarter was $2.95 billion, or 58 cents a share, just a bit below the year-ago quarter. Revenue was slightly higher, at $13.5 billion.

“We are executing on our strategy to offer an increasingly broad and diverse product portfolio,” Brian M. Krzanich, Intel’s chief executive, said in a statement. He called the quarter “modest growth in a tough environment.”

The net income was above the expectations of Wall Street analysts. They had expected 53 cents a share and revenue of $13.47 billion, according to a survey of analysts by Thomson Reuters. Shares fell in after-hours trading, however, based on a fourth-quarter forecast from Intel that was below expectations.

While Intel is hardly a company on the ropes, the continued malaise around its quarterly results is another indication that the companies that were on top of tech over the last two decades are, increasingly, not so dominant. The recent annual revenue from the tech incumbents Cisco, Hewlett-Packard, Microsoft, I.B.M. and Intel, for example, was a collective $401 billion. For Apple, Google and Samsung, the number was $349 billion. The three also had faster growth over all than the other five companies.

“All of the hardware companies have to find ways to bring value in a world where a lot of the innovating is done in software and services,” said Bobby Burleson, an analyst with Canaccord Genuity. “They weren’t the ones to define the new computing reality. The world is dominated by Google and Apple.” Other companies, he said, “can live in it, but they have to pay a toll.”

Intel, based in Santa Clara, Calif., has long dominated the market for PCs and computer servers, but was slow to move into mobile devices like smartphones and tablets. Mr. Krzanich, who took over last spring, has said that he is taking steps to fix the problem, but that results will take time. Intel has been working closely with Google on hardware, and has purchased companies that will enable its chips to work better with cloud-based software.

Mr. Krzanich has warned, however, that Intel is still perhaps 18 months from being able to respond more quickly to market shifts.

Being late has already cost Intel. When an app is downloaded to a phone, it is likely to come from the stores of Google or Apple and run on a device with chips from Samsung, Qualcomm and Nvidia, rather than Intel. Intel chips are in many cloud computing servers, but with generally lower profit margins.

It is a problem faced by many of the big business technology firms that were slow to catch the tech industry’s latest shift. Decades of skilled engineering and complex sales efforts — along with the big costs that go with them — are less important than they were in the past. Products from I.B.M. or H.P. were years in the making; products from Facebook can be cooked up in overnight hackathons.

Many of the older tech companies are trying to shift gears and sometimes compete with their old partners. I.B.M., which reports its own quarterly results on Wednesday, is widely rumored to be looking at a sale of its server business, so it can concentrate on cloud-based software and services. (An I.B.M. spokeswoman said the company did not comment on rumors.)

Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft’s chief executive, has announced his retirement as his company looks for ways to catch up with mobile customers. Cisco, which is pitching itself as the computer networking center of a sensor-rich “Internet of things,” has experienced years of declining profit margins.

Last week, Meg Whitman, the chief executive of H.P., called the changes to her company “very tough and very real,” adding that “current partners like Intel and Microsoft are turning from partners to outright competitors.”
389 2013-10-16 But economists who follow China’s monetary policy say that while Beijing has somewhat diversified its foreign exchange reserves, it continues to rely heavily on Treasury bills and other American government-backed debt.

Part of the problem is the lack of easy alternatives: euro-denominated debt has been hurt by the European Union’s crisis, except in Germany. Analysts estimate that 60 percent of China’s $3.66 trillion in reserves are still in dollar-denominated debt, though the precise numbers are a secret.

In its commentary, Xinhua embellished its call for a new reserve currency with a scathing indictment of the United States’ broader role in the world, saying that the Obama administration claimed “the moral high ground” while covertly “torturing prisoners of war, slaying civilians in drone attacks and spying on world leaders.”

Edwin M. Truman, an economist and former Treasury Department official, said: “This is political blather. It is a politically defensive response to the choices China has made.”

That does not mean a brush with default will not have long-term damaging consequences for the United States. Even if China continues to buy Treasury bonds, economists said, it may opt for those with shorter maturities, which would drive up long-term interest rates in the United States, hurting home buyers and owners of small businesses.

The sour taste from the budget impasse will also motivate the Chinese to intensify their efforts to deepen their own debt markets. Already, China has negotiated swaps for its currency, the renminbi, with the European Central Bank and other institutions, a step toward making the currency convertible and, someday, a rival to the dollar and euro.

“This gives them a kick in the pants to do it,” said Kenneth S. Rogoff, professor of public policy and economics at Harvard and a former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund.

Any decline in the status of the dollar will be gradual, said Mr. Rogoff, who pointed to the erosion of the British pound sterling over several decades as a precedent. But, he said, “Memories are long: you do this once, you do this twice, and people start to think.”

President Obama appeared to have those long-term effects in mind when he was asked last week what message he had for big bondholders like the Chinese and Japanese. After saying that he had assured world leaders that the United States would continue to pay its bills, he noted that the specter of default, and the fact that the United States had flirted with it once before, could sow lasting doubts overseas.

“We saw what happened in 2011,” Mr. Obama said. “I think the assumption was that the Americans must have learned their lesson, that there would be budget conflicts, but nobody again would threaten the possibility that we would default. And when they hear members of the Senate and members of Congress saying maybe default wouldn’t be that bad, I’ll bet that makes them nervous. It makes me nervous.”

For all the anxiety, though, the prevailing belief overseas is that the United States will avert a default. At last weekend’s meetings of the World Bank and I.M.F. in Washington, Mr. Rogoff said, none of the visiting finance ministers expressed genuine fear that Congress and the White House would not find a way out.

The fiscal deadlock, he said, cast such a long shadow over the gathering that the ministers did not have to dwell on the financial and structural problems in their own economies.

China is a case in point. While the Chinese government has taken steps to shift its economy from a dependence on exports toward one fueled by domestic demand, the progress has been fitful. At the behest of its exporters, it continues to artificially depress its exchange rate, which it does by using its export earnings to buy dollars and other foreign currencies.

In the first quarter of this year, economists say, the Chinese government added more to its foreign exchange reserves than in all of 2012.

On one level, China’s $3.66 trillion hoard is a symbol of its financial might. But on another, it has tied Beijing’s hands. China’s central bank, the People’s Bank of China, cannot dump its Treasury bonds without driving down their value and incurring a painful loss on paper.

“This is certainly a wake-up call for them that holding U.S. government securities is not risk-free,” said Nicholas R. Lardy, an expert on the Chinese economy at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. “What they should be doing is quit adding to their foreign reserves.”
390 2013-10-16 This chic but tiny hot spot closed at its original location after 27 years and has now reappeared just a few blocks away, at more than twice the size. “I think this place will have the same soul, but maybe will be a little more organized,” said Philippe Delgrange, the managing partner. He has brought in Julien Jouhannaud, who worked with Alain Ducasse, to turn out bistro favorites like Roquefort and endive salad, moules frites and rack of lamb. Now there is plenty of seating, but you may still miss the sidewalk tables at the old place. The other partners are Ronald Perelman, Steve Witkoff and Eric Clapton. (Opens Wednesday): 20 East 60th Street, (212) 751-3036, lebilboquetny.com.

BARBALU The former Barbarini Alimentari, which was destroyed in Hurricane Sandy, has been reborn as this trattoria. The owners, Stefano Barbagallo and Adriana Luque, who are married, combined their last names to come up with the restaurant’s name: 225-227 Front Street (Peck Slip), (646) 918-6565, barbalu.com.

CAFé PAULETTE Lionel Guy-Brémond, who had restaurants in Paris and has a clothing boutique in SoHo, is back in the restaurant business with this little Brooklyn bistro. The menu changes daily, featuring dishes like terrines, rye baguette with anchovies and pot-au-feu. Elizabeth Reyes from Miami is the chef, and the all-French wine list is biodynamic and organic: 136 DeKalb Avenue (South Elliot Place), (718) 694-2044, cafepaulette.com.

EL QUINTO PINO EL COMEDOR A compact dining room with an expanded menu and wine list has been tacked onto Alex Raij and Eder Montero’s tapas bar. (Wednesday): 401 West 24th Street, (212) 206-6900, elquintopinonyc.com.

JOE & MISSES DOE This restaurant replaces JoeDoe, owned by the chef Joe Dobias and Jill Schulster, a mixologist, with a name that reflects their recent marriage. It serves reinterpreted comfort food like French dip dumplings: 45 East First Street (Second Avenue), (212) 780-0262, joeandmissesdoe.com.

KORCHMA TARAS BULBA This is the New York edition of a Russian chain that serves typical Ukrainian dishes like pelmeni dumplings, pirogi and pampushki, which are like savory doughnuts. The two-story setting suggests the steppes, with lots of folky, kitschy details: 357 West Broadway (Grand Street), (212) 510-7510, tarasbulba.us.
391 2013-10-16 He shrugged. “In politics, I don’t think I’ll be the best politician in the world. But I know I won’t be quiet, either.”

Romário targets a wide spectrum. He believes the Brazilian soccer federation, known as the C.B.F., is a “disgrace” and says that its former president, Ricardo Teixeira, who resigned amid allegations of corruption, is “directly a part of everything that has been evil in Brazilian football for the last 10 years.” Teixeira’s replacement, José Maria Marin, is “somehow even worse.” A spokesman for the C.B.F. declined to comment.

is also to blame for “robbing the Brazilian people,” Romário said, adding that he believed FIFA’s president, Sepp Blatter, had little interest in leaving Brazil in a good state after the World Cup.

“FIFA got what it came for: money,” he said. “Things like transportation that affect the public after the tournament is over? They don’t care. They don’t care about what is going to be left behind.”

Romário also has little use for his fellow Brazilians who put a positive spin on what he sees as a missed opportunity to help alleviate his country’s numerous social needs. Ronaldo and Bebeto are ambassadors for the local organizing committee, and Romário laughed when his former teammates were mentioned. In reference to Ronaldo, who once said that “you host World Cups with stadiums, not hospitals,” Romário rolled his eyes. “Ignorant,” he said. “Either Ronaldo and Bebeto aren’t aware of what is going on, or they are pretending they aren’t aware of what is going on. Either way, it is ignorant.”

Initially, Brazilian officials said no public money would be used on stadium construction. Now, some estimates show as much as 6.4 billion reais of public money ($2.9 billion) will be spent on stadium construction. The total bill to stage the tournament could be 30 billion reais ($13.8 billion), a figure Romário says leaves him sick.

“You see hospitals with no beds,” he said. “You see hospitals with people on the floor. You see schools that don’t have lunch for the kids. You see schools with no air-conditioning, where kids are going to school in 45 degrees Celsius,” or 113 degrees Fahrenheit. He continued: “You see buildings and schools with no accessibility for people who are handicapped. If you spend 30 percent less on the stadiums, they’d be able to improve the other things that actually matter.”

Romário, who is 5 feet 6 inches and has the nickname Baixinho, or Shorty, shook his head before checking off a list of government officials and soccer organizations that he found distasteful, including FIFA.

“They found a way to get rich on the World Cup and they robbed the people instead,” he said. “This is the real shame.”

Romário’s candor — not surprisingly — is far from universally appreciated. Those who support Marin and the C.B.F. call Romário misguided, and more neutral observers can find his complaints a bit shrill.

Juca Kfouri, an author and professor from São Paulo who has written on soccer and politics, said that although many agree with Romário’s opinions, there may also be reasonable questions about his intentions.

“Romário reveals the same political opportunism that he showed as a footballer,” Kfouri said.

Recently, Romário also had a falling out with his own party, the Brazilian Socialists, which led him to resign a position on the Brazilian sports and tourism commission.

Still, Romário’s advocacy is not uncommon for a Brazilian celebrity. Tiririca, a former professional clown, was elected to public office in 2010, and there has been a procession of athletes through the years. Pelé was once the minister of sport. Bebeto was elected to the legislative assembly. And Socrates, a famous midfielder of the 1970s and ’80s, was integral to the opposition against the military government that ruled until 1985.

Paulo Sotero, the director of the Brazil Institute of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, called Socrates the obvious forerunner.

“Socrates became emblematic of the major Brazilian player that used his position to protest against the dictatorship,” Sotero said. “But Romário is surprising in certain ways. The thinking in Brazil has always been that he is a good soccer player because he can’t make any sense. But he has been making a lot of sense.”

That is perhaps the oddest aspect of Romário’s blistering campaign against the World Cup. During the height of his playing career, it would have been absurd to predict that the man who variously labeled Pelé an “imbecile” and “mentally retarded” would become a dogged populist politician. And that the man who notoriously brawled with raucous fans would someday become a staunch defender of the proletariat.

Perspective, such as it was, arrived eight years ago. That was when Romário’s daughter, Ivy, was born with and, he said, he was awakened to the plight of the disabled. Asked to name his proudest moment, he did not bring up his domination at the 1994 World Cup or the day he scored his 1,000th career goal while playing for Vasco da Gama (a total that admittedly took some creative math because it included goals scored in youth and friendly matches, which are not counted by FIFA). Rather, Romário hesitated and leaned forward. “One of my best days was in the first six months of my term,” he said. “I was able to get a law that was sanctioned by the president that incentivized and helps those who are handicapped. It used to be that those who were handicapped did not want to work because they might lose their government money. Now, they can go find work.”

He shrugged. “Comparing that to scoring an important goal, it’s not the same,” he said. “With that, you have accomplished something. You have really, really done something.”

It still must be said that the old Romário has not disappeared. Although he may run for governor of Rio de Janeiro next year and his hair has grayed at the edges, his political vigor remains mixed with a heavy dose of hard living. He still goes across the street from his apartment whenever he can to play futevôlei, or footvolley, a version of beach volleyball that prohibits the use of hands. He still deals with gossip columnists tracking his romantic relationships (his divorce was a tabloid staple, and he was once linked to a woman who competed in the Miss Bum-Bum competition, which is a beauty pageant where women are judged on their posteriors). He also still regularly goes to clubs and parties and takes photographs with fans of his work on the field and off.

“I used to sleep more during the day than I did at night,” he said. “Now at least I sleep a little at night. A little.”

Ultimately, Romário makes no apologies — not for his demeanor and not for his politics. His constituents in Rio know him; they know who he was and who he has become.

“At first, I thought he was going to get into the media or get easy money,” said Tiago Antonio, a cabdriver in Rio, “but it seems he’s doing a good job.”

Paulo Tadeu, another cabby, said he admired Romário’s agenda.

“There’s no good schools, there’s no good hospitals — how can there be a World Cup?” he said.

This, of course, is what Romário keeps asking over and over. Other celebrities spoke out after the protests during last summer’s Confederations Cup, which led to jarring images of smoke and tear gas dominating the news coverage of what was supposed to have been a showcase event for Brazil.

Many asked the protesters to reconsider their approach. Even Pelé at one point told the Brazilian news media group Globo that the people should “forget all this commotion.” Rather, he said people should “remember how the Brazilian squad is our country and our blood.”

But Romário does not want people to forget. He wants them to stand and march and chant and scream. He wants them to make noise. He wants them to speak up for what they believe — whether it is cleaner government or cheaper public transportation — even if it leaves the Brazilian World Cup with a legacy that is less than pristine.

Will the protests return next summer? Romário grinned, his eyes widening.

“Not only do I think they will return, I think they should return,” he said. “There will be a World Cup here next year, we know that. But this, these demonstrations, is the way you make politicians wake up.”

He leaned back and laughed. “This is the way you make people think about whether or not they are going to rob you again tomorrow.”
392 2013-10-16 Some of the damage from the Washington stalemate is immediate and concrete. The American Chamber of Commerce in Germany expressed concern Monday that the U.S. government shutdown had already delayed negotiations on a trans-Atlantic trade agreement. Businesses on both sides of the ocean see the agreement as a way to stimulate growth and job creation.

Europe’s own fragile recovery rests on demand for its exports, especially from the United States, the largest customer for German products outside the European Union. The United States is also by far the largest export market for the Union as a whole, buying goods worth 143 billion euros, or $193 billion, in the first six months of 2013. That was double the value of European exports to China.

It would not take much of a stutter in U.S. growth to undermine the euro zone economy, which is still burdened by weak banks and 12 percent unemployment. In fact, exports to the United States were down 2 percent through June compared with the period a year earlier.

Bernhard Mattes, a Ford executive who is president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Germany, said members of the group were not yet feeling a direct impact on sales. But he added, “We are hearing concern from our member companies about the development in the U.S. and worry about consumer confidence.”

Other chamber members worry that public works projects in the United States could be delayed by the government shutdown, Mr. Mattes said in an interview Tuesday. That could be bad for German companies like Hochtief, a German builder, or Liebherr, a supplier of construction equipment. A Hochtief spokesman said, however, that so far none of its U.S. business had suffered.

There was palpable relief in European stock markets Tuesday as Senate leaders neared completion of a deal that would raise the debt ceiling and reopen the federal government. But with the U.S. House of Representatives still showing no signs of buying in, European investors might have been thinking wishfully.

And there remained anxiety abroad that any agreement would be a stopgap, leading to another round of brinkmanship in a few months.

“We would very much appreciate not only a short-term solution,” Mr. Mattes said, “but also a long-term framework for strong investment and trade between the European Union and the U.S.”

Euro zone businesspeople also worry that further turmoil in Washington would push down the value of the dollar against the euro. A weaker dollar makes European products more expensive not only in the United States but also in countries like China whose currencies tend to move in concert with the dollar.

On Tuesday, the dollar rose sharply against the euro, evidently on optimism about Senate developments. But some analysts expressed concern that a deal, even if it came before the Thursday deadline for a nominal default on United States Treasury debt, would already be too late to prevent the Treasury from missing payments on government bonds coming due. A default, even if short-lived, would have consequences abroad that are impossible to calculate but clearly frightening.

United States Treasury bonds are the most widely held securities in the world and are used as collateral in countless financial transactions. China and Japan are the two biggest holders of U.S. government bonds by far, with about $1.3 trillion and $1.1 trillion.

But many other countries are also heavily exposed to U.S. bonds, including Brazil, Taiwan, Belgium and Switzerland. Any default would probably be temporary, Rob Carnell, chief international economist at ING Bank, said in a note to clients Tuesday. But he added, “a prolonged default really would start to damage faith in the U.S. Treasury markets.”

Investors would shift their money to other assets considered low risk, Mr. Carnell said, like gold or currencies like the Swiss franc.

A migration away from Treasury bonds would ultimately be costly for American taxpayers. The use of United States debt as a kind of international wampum makes it possible for Washington to borrow more cheaply than it would otherwise. A study published by the Federal Reserve last year found that a monthly reduction of $100 billion in foreign purchases of United States bonds would raise the interest rate on five-year debt by 0.4 percent to 0.6 percent.

Interest rates in some of the more debt-stressed European countries like Italy would probably also rise, making it even harder for companies and individuals to get loans and prolonging the economic downturn there. Italian and Spanish bond yields both rose slightly on Tuesday, though they remained below levels considered dangerous to government fiscal health.

For people outside the United States, though, the biggest damage from the political impasse in Washington may be to their morale. If the government of the world’s most powerful nation cannot keep operating, what can you believe in anymore?

Carl Weinberg, chief economist of High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, New York, noted that the United States had suffered other blows to its prestige recently, including revelations of Internet spying by the National Security Agency and indecisiveness in dealing with chemical weapons in Syria. China has stepped into the vacuum, taking advantage of President Barack Obama’s absence from world affairs to forge new trade deal in Asia, Mr. Weinberg wrote in a note to clients Tuesday.

“And now we have this debt limit stupidity,” he said.
393 2013-10-16 WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court on Tuesday agreed to hear a major case challenging Environmental Protection Agency regulations of greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources like power plants. The justices declined to hear a variety of related attacks on the agency’s authority to address climate change.

The case is a sequel to Massachusetts v. Environmental Protection Agency, a 2007 decision that required the agency to regulate emissions of greenhouse gases from new motor vehicles if it found they endangered public health or welfare. Two years later, the agency made such a finding, saying that “elevated concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere” pose a danger to “current and future generations.” It set limits on emissions both from new vehicles and from stationary sources like power plants.

States and industry groups challenged the regulations on several grounds. They said the agency’s conclusions about the dangers posed by greenhouse gases were not supported by adequate evidence, that the so-called tailpipe regulations were flawed and that the agency was not authorized to regulate emissions from stationary sources.

A three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit last year unanimously rejected the challenges, some on the merits and some on the ground that the parties before the court lacked standing to pursue them.

The Supreme Court accepted six petitions seeking review of that rejection, but it limited the issue it would consider to the question of whether the agency “permissibly determined that its regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles triggered permitting requirements under the Clean Air Act for stationary sources that emit greenhouses gases.” Among the cases accepted for review was Utility Air Regulatory Group v. Environmental Protection Agency, No. 12-1146.
394 2013-10-16 In addition, two Italian banks, Intesa Sanpaolo and UniCredit, have agreed to underwrite up to 100 million euros’ worth of any additional unsubscribed shares. Intesa Sanpaolo already owns 8.9 percent of the airline.

The capital increase forms part of a package brokered late last week by Italy’s coalition government that also includes 200 million euros in loans and lines of credit from a consortium of banks to keep Alitalia operating for at least the next several months.

Air France-KLM, which rescued Alitalia from bankruptcy in 2008 along with a consortium of leading Italian companies, last week consented to the emergency plan to keep the airline flying. But it stopped short of declaring how much of its own cash it was prepared to contribute. It is undergoing a restructuring of its own and faces a difficult choice on Alitalia.

Five years ago, during the Italian carrier’s bankruptcy, Air France-KLM sought to acquire Alitalia. At the time, Italian political opposition to the sale of a national symbol to a foreign owner led to a compromise that left the French-Dutch group exposed to Alitalia’s troubles, but with limited ability to influence strategy as the Italian carrier faced intense competition from low-cost rivals like Ryanair and easyJet.

Analysts remained skeptical that Air France-KLM would be willing to increase its exposure significantly unless it could extract a commitment to a drastic — and politically unpalatable — shrinkage of Alitalia’s operations that would probably include sharp reductions to its work force of 14,000.

But some said Air France-KLM could be willing to purchase enough new shares — roughly 75 million euros’ worth — to maintain its 25 percent stake and its four seats on the Alitalia board.

Some industry experts were skeptical of the coalition government’s plan and condemned the lack of a farsighted strategy for Italy’s flag carrier. “The operation is halfway between a state monopoly from the 1970s and a state bailout that the company now gets every four years,” said Andrea Renda, a professor of antitrust issues and regulation at Luiss Guido Carli University in Rome. “This is not a serious industrial plan, just a short-term solution.”

Italian government officials reacted harshly to the widespread criticism that the operation was disguised state aid aimed at keeping Alitalia an Italian company.

Flavio Zanonato, Italy’s minister for economic development, called the operations “purely industrial,” while Fabrizio Saccomanni, the economy and finance minister, rebuffed the accusations of protectionism as “hasty,” and said that the government’s intention was to help form a serious international partnership.

“The idea of a ‘stand-alone’ Alitalia, which is the choice we made in the past, is completely changed now,” Mr. Saccomanni told reporters ahead of a meeting of the European Union economy ministers meeting in Luxembourg on Tuesday.
395 2013-10-16 Ms. Ahrendts will probably be expected to make shopping online and in stores more seamless, and help make the customer service experience similar whether consumers are walking in or logging on to an Apple store.

She will bring with her a deep knowledge of retailing. Under her watch, Burberry put technology in the forefront of its brand strategy. The company established a strong presence on Facebook and other social media and built a unified experience for its online marketplace and store.

People in the fashion industry credit Ms. Ahrendts with expanding Burberry into an international fashion brand while maintaining its heritage, and said Apple could use some of that magic.

“It’s about being able to tap into trends — not just fashion trends, but what people want in their lives, what they’re talking about — while maintaining a sense of the brand,” said Simon Ungless, director of fashion at the Academy of Art University in the San Francisco area, who has worked for designers like Alexander McQueen. “I think that’s what she’s done at Burberry very well, and that feels like something they’ve lost at Apple.”

Ms. Ahrendts, 53, was raised far from the runways. She grew up in Indiana and graduated from Ball State University, also in Indiana. She eventually found her way to the fashion industry and started rising up the executive ranks, becoming Burberry’s chief executive in 2006.

As Burberry’s fortunes rose, so did Ms. Ahrendts’s profile. That profile could grow even larger at Apple, one of the biggest companies in the world — and one of the most closely followed. She will now be the only woman on Apple’s executive team, and some analysts on Tuesday speculated that she could be an eventual successor to Mr. Cook, though he is not expected to leave anytime soon.

Ms. Ahrendts, who joined Burberry from Liz Claiborne, is Apple’s second big hire from the fashion industry this year. In the summer, Apple hired Paul Deneve, the former chief executive of the French fashion house Yves Saint Laurent, to work on special projects.

Silicon Valley has long had its eye on fashion and the industry’s success at selling an image. And the push by technology companies into so-called wearable technology, like Google Glass and Samsung’s smartwatch, has only intensified that interest. When models wearing Google’s eyewear walked the runway at Diane von Furstenberg’s show in New York this year, it became obvious that the connection was lasting.

The hiring of Ms. Ahrendts increased expectations among analysts that Apple would expand into wearable technology, including perhaps an Internet-connected wristwatch.

“Everyone in the market is seriously thinking about wearable technology,” said Jez Frampton, global chief executive of Interbrand, a consulting group. “Tackling the fashion markets requires a different skill set than the tech sector.”

Ms. Ahrendts recruitment to Apple’s senior management will help the company reassert its reputation as a global luxury brand. Before she took over Burberry, the company and its clothes and accessories had become increasingly associated with low-end retail customers. By adapting Burberry’s image to a youthful style, but one that never jettisoned the core clothing, the brand was repositioned as “affordable luxury.”

That branding strategy could be useful for Apple in a time when it is dipping its toe into lower prices, with a cheaper plastic iPhone and the lower-cost iPad Mini. While Apple is increasingly associated with high-end brands like Gucci and Ferrari, analysts warn that the American tech company also must expand into the wider consumer market where it increasingly faces competition from the likes of Google and other manufacturers of low-cost Android phones.

“This represents a strategic shift,” said David Godber, global chief executive of the brand design consultancy Elmwood in London. “Tim Cook wants people in his team that are capable of shifting Apple from a technology innovator to a luxury lifestyle company.”

Ms. Ahrendts will partly be filling a role once held by John Browett, who had a short-lived stint in charge of Apple’s retail business before a prominent firing last year. Mr. Browett had run the British low-end technology retailer Dixons, and he left Apple after less than six months. Analysts said his efforts to cut costs at Apple’s stores did not fit with the company’s overall strategy, and Apple publicly apologized for a plan by Mr. Browett to cut back on staffing at its retail outlets.

Mr. Browett took the position at Apple after Ron Johnson left to become chief executive at J. C. Penney. Although he was considered a great success at Apple, Mr. Johnson quickly ran into problems, and he left this year after just 17 months in the job.

The physical stores have helped Apple’s bottom line. On average, each store brings in around $13 million in revenue every three months, or roughly double the comparable figures for the luxury jewelry brand Tiffany & Company, according to the research firm Asymco. Apple earned just under $4.1 billion from roughly 84 million visitors to its retail stores in the three months through June 30.

“Apple is a rarity as a retailer,” said Liam Hamill, strategy director at the brand consulting firm Venturethree in London. “Its stores aren’t merely designed to sell products, but to give a halo effect to its brand.”
396 2013-10-16 2. Toss the shredded zucchini with salt and let drain in a colander for 20 minutes. Take up handfuls of zucchini and squeeze out as much liquid as possible. Transfer to a medium bowl and add the garlic, mint, parsley or dill, and rice. Season with salt and pepper. Stir in 1/4 cup of the olive oil and let sit for 10 minutes.

3. Meanwhile preheat the oven to 375 degrees. Oil a baking dish large enough to accommodate all of the peppers.  Fill the peppers about 3/4 of the way full with the stuffing, and replace the caps. Place in the oiled baking dish. Mix together the tomato paste and water with the remaining olive oil and the lemon juice. Season to taste. Add to the baking dish. Cover the dish with foil. Place in the oven and bake 45 minutes to an hour, until the peppers are soft. Remove from the heat and allow to cool to room temperature, or serve hot. Remove the tops of the peppers and spoon the sauce in the baking dish over the rice before serving.

Advance preparation: These can be made a day ahead. Leftovers are good for 3 or 4 days.

Nutritional information per serving: 277 calories; 13 grams fat; 2 grams saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 9 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 37 grams carbohydrates; 4 grams dietary fiber; 31 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 5 grams protein

Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”
397 2013-10-16 Once, I slept in a blooming apple orchard under a full April moon, surrounded by fragrant blossoms as big as saucers.

People don’t usually wax poetic about the humble apple, I know. But a visit to farmer friends in on that particular warm, clear and strikingly still night left a deep impression. Although they had prepared the guest room for me, sleeping outdoors seemed a far better option. It would be six months before the apples were ready to eat, but I didn’t mind. Because just to be in that orchard was magical. And because new-crop apples are worth the wait.

New-crop apples (that is, ones just picked) don’t necessarily make it to supermarkets, where the general rule is to stock four or five dependable varieties that travel well. Those may come from eastern or or . Not that there is anything intrinsically wrong with supermarket apples. They still have more or less the same health benefits and versatility in the kitchen. They just aren’t going to make your heart beat faster.

Not so long ago, apples were grown everywhere in the United States. Certain varieties appeared in mid-to-late summer; others didn’t ripen before the onset of cool weather. These local apples were cherished. There were regional apple festivals and parades when the new crop came in. Even if you didn’t grow your own apples, you certainly wouldn’t buy them from out of state. But apple orchards have disappeared from many former apple-growing regions, replaced by housing developments or by more profitable, glamorous crops, like wine grapes.

The American apple industry, now mostly in the Northwest, produces the second-most apples worldwide, millions of tons. Most of these apples are picked unripe, kept fresh for long periods in specialized chambers and allowed to ripen only once they are shipped. It is efficient, even if it is not romantic.

If you long for the thrill of new-crop apples, head to a farmers’ market, a farm stand or an honest-to-goodness apple tree on a cool day. What you will find is firm, dense fruit, some with the leaves still attached. When you take your first bite into the crisp flesh, the sweet juices fairly drip upon the tongue, not at all like the apples you recall. Smack your lips and swoon.
398 2013-10-17 The new measures consist of a system of four colored alerts that will kick in when either one or three days of heavy pollution are forecast....
399 2013-10-17 Credit: Chris Bickford for The New York Times
400 2013-10-17 A Beijing professor’s suggestion that the Chinese capital test migrant workers on subjects like law and culture has been met with widespread criticism....
401 2013-10-17 On the first day back to work for government employees, not every federal office was back to functioning normally....
402 2013-10-17 The National Mall hummed back to life on Thursday, with National Park Service employees carting away barricades and skimming debris from fountains, and tourists trying to squeeze what they could out of the last hours of their vacations....
403 2013-10-17 Up for re-election in 2014, Senator Mitch McConnell faces critics on the right not just for conciliation, but also for an appropriation....
404 2013-10-17 After widespread scrutiny on the Internet, officials in Missouri this week called for a review of a case involving the rape of a teenager that prosecutors said they had dropped last year for lack of evidence....
405 2013-10-17 National parks like the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area were open to enthusiastic visitors on Thursday after a deal was reached to end the government shutdown....
406 2013-10-17 The winding down of SAC Capital’s business of managing money for outside investors is said to be part of a plea deal prosecutors are negotiating with Steven A. Cohen’s embattled fund....
407 2013-10-17 Fix the Debt does its bit to make things worse....
408 2013-10-17 The Dutch company’s announcement comes a day after América Móvil, the Latin American telecommunications giant controlled by Carlos Slim Helú, dropped its takeover bid....
409 2013-10-17 The two objections I hear most often from owners are these: I don’t want to share salary information, and I don’t want to reveal my profits....
410 2013-10-17 Taking $24 billion out of the economy. Sending cash by e-mail. Why HealthCare.gov broke down....
411 2013-10-17 The weakness renewed worries about the headwinds that Goldman and other banks are facing in big money-producing areas like fixed-income trading....
412 2013-10-17 Two more raids in Ontario and British Columbia freed 1,300 other minks and foxes during the same period, according to the North American Animal Liberation Press Office, which bills itself as a conduit for messages from anonymous animal rights activists.

“What we’re seeing now is unprecedented,” Peter Young, a Santa Cruz, Calif., activist who was imprisoned in 2005 for his role in raids on six mink ranches, said in a telephone interview. Though still an outspoken defender of the animal rights movement and mink-ranch raids, Mr. Young says he has no contact with those who raid fur farms or commit other illegal acts and, in fact, does not know who they are.

The fur industry is not amused. “Criminal thugs, felons. And they’re committing federal crimes,” said Michael Whelan, the executive director of Fur Commission U.S.A., which represents all of the country’s 300 or so mink farms.

Also, he adds, it is not unprecedented. Mr. Whelan says raids were more common during the 1990s, and he even disputes that eight raids have occurred since July. (He says there were only seven.)

It is one measure of the venomous relationship between mink ranchers and mink liberators that they cannot agree on how big their argument is. But it is only one measure.

The two camps also call each other terrorists. Indeed, mink liberation is a federal crime under the Animal Enterprise Terrorism Act, and animal rights extremism is duly monitored by the Department of Homeland Security, according to a 2012 Congressional report.

Mr. Young, who says he is regularly searched at airport security checkpoints when he flies these days, maintains that the only violence in his old line of work occurred when farmers harvested their pelts for sale at auction.

The two sides do agree on one matter: that the raiders — the shadowy Animal Liberation Front, the best-known such group, has claimed responsibility for three of the recent attacks — are extremists.

“Fur is just a gateway product,” Mr. Whelan said. “They’re against the production of leather, meat, wool, poultry, dairy. The reason they’re after the fur industry is because it’s low-lying fruit.”

Mr. Young quite agrees. “This really isn’t about fur in particular; it’s about animal exploitation,” he said. “If cows were able to survive in the wild and had a natural habitat, we’d release cows. Unfortunately, you can’t release a cow, so we have to release mink.”

Not that cows are not on the animal rights agenda. In August, a group called Iowans for Animal Liberation poured red paint over the Iowa butter cow, a life-size cow carved in butter that is a highlight of the state fair, to symbolize the blood animals shed on the way to being eaten, worn and otherwise exploited.

But for those who release animals from captivity, fur, and especially mink, appears to deliver the most bang for the buck.

The latest burst of raids appears to stem in part from an anonymous posting on a blog this summer of an updated list of mink and fox farms and research facilities first issued in 1996. The new list, called The Final Nail #4, includes addresses, instructions on how to free animals from cages and avoid detection, and a most-wanted list of desirable targets.

But the activists may also be aiming for the farmers’ pocketbooks. Driven by demand from nouveau riche Chinese and Russians, the price of a good mink pelt has zoomed to a record $100, Fur Commission U.S.A. estimates, from just $41 five years ago, and turned a handful of mostly backyard businesses into a $350 million-a-year industry.

“The Chinese consumer just loves the American mink,” said Mr. Whelan of the fur commission. “They want all the trappings of success. They want the Mercedes-Benz, they want the Rolex watch and they want the mink coat. We’re fortunate to be a part of it.”

In New Holstein, 90 minutes north of Milwaukee, the Bonlanders say their 5,000 minks, housed on the family plot, are just a small business. Still, they were just completing work on a massive new freezer to hold their furry harvest when the raiders struck.

Mrs. Bonlander called the raid “devastating,” adding: “It’s our livelihood. They’re trying to put us out of business. Do you feel bad about killing a cow? Or the pig for pork chops? That’s the way it is.”

But she claims to have had the last laugh.

Within an hour of the police officer’s knock, she said, “There was about a hundred people here catching mink,” friends and neighboring mink farmers and strangers who had heard about the raid over the telephone grapevine. In boots and biteproof gloves, with fishing nets and live traps and even a mink-sniffing dog, they set out to round up their quarry.

“They’re hard to catch,” she said. “They’re slippery, they’re quick and they’re sly.” But surprisingly, she claims the family recovered all but 180 or so.

Some of the lost were squashed on the road by passing cars. The rest, she said, will not make it through the winter. “They weren’t born in the wild. Their mothers didn’t train them to hunt,” she said. “These people that release the mink, they don’t think of that.”

Many wildlife biologists disagree; escaped minks are thriving in Britain, New Zealand and elsewhere. For his part, though, Mr. Young says that is not the point. “The animals on these farms are bred to be killed. That’s a 100 percent certainty,” he said. “If even one animal gets away and survives, that’s a success as far as I’m concerned.”
413 2013-10-17 Inspectors from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, the agency based in The Hague that is responsible for policing a global ban, have reached 11 of Syria’s 20 sites, the agency said Wednesday, and had verified their contents and begun destroying equipment at six. The work, part of a joint mission with the United Nations, advanced the process of dismantling Syria’s toxic arsenal, under a Security Council resolution unanimously approved last month. President Obama had earlier threatened military strikes against Syria over the Aug. 21 chemical attacks near Damascus that killed hundreds of people.

At the United Nations, Secretary General Ban Ki-moon announced he had appointed Sigrid Kaag, a career diplomat fluent in five languages including Arabic, to lead the joint mission in Syria, which must oversee the destruction of the Syrian arsenal by the middle of 2014. Ms. Kaag, 52, a native of the Netherlands, is an assistant secretary general at the United Nations Development Program and has held several other posts at the organization since 2004.
414 2013-10-17 Those conservatives seemed pleased with Mr. Boehner’s performance, no matter the outcome. “We know he tends not to want to pursue tough battles,” said Representative John Fleming of Louisiana. “I think he’s migrated more toward us. We are appreciative of that.”

Senator Ted Cruz of Texas — the Republican freshman who concocted the health care defunding plan, invented his own version of a filibuster (no bill blocking, much talking) and withstood the weekly berating of his party elders with no apparent damage to his perpetually pleased grin — seemed Wednesday like a man whose monthlong parade in the public spotlight left him without any burns to his ego.

As he emerged from a meeting with Senate Republicans — during which there was widespread support to end the standoff he had largely started — he stared at the swarm of reporters, their tape recorders shoved beneath his dimpled chin, looked defiant and once again swiped at his colleagues as Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, announced the deal a few feet away.

“Unfortunately, the Washington establishment is failing to listen to the American people,” Mr. Cruz said. “Had Senate Republicans united and supported House Republicans, the outcome of this would have been very, very different, and I wish that had happened.”

Later, Mr. Cruz took to the Senate floor to denounce the bill. “This deal embodies everything about the Washington establishment that frustrates the American people,” he said.

On the Senate floor, there was an unusual level of avuncular cheer as senators from both parties seemed relieved to end a standoff in a bipartisan fashion through legislation constructed among their ranks. Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, bellied up to Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, and then another group of Democrats who had briefly wrapped arms. Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, clasped her hands in front of her as she awaited a vote tally.

In the House, the session was interrupted by an unusual scene: a stenographer — shouting and protesting — was removed from the floor just after lawmakers passed the Senate deal. “The greatest deception here is this is not one nation under God; it never was!” she said as she was carried into the hall and Capitol police officers descended. Elsewhere on Capitol Hill, there was a mix of giddiness at the prospects that the impasse was near an end along with defensiveness about the process.

Representative John Kline, Republican of Minnesota, who like so many of his colleagues has been pressed into playing Capitol tour guide after the guides were furloughed, led a group of constituents through the Rotunda and did his best to explain how things work. “Well, it is what it is,” he said. “Let’s go to the House floor!”

At a House hearing of the Natural Resources Committee to discuss why national parks and monuments had been closed during the shutdown, Representative Peter A. DeFazio, Democrat of Oregon, illuminated the dichotomy. “Normally I begin these hearings by thanking Republicans for holding them,” he said. “You know that’s not appropriate today. We are having a hearing that is at best nonsensical.”

Capitol Hill police officers seemed unmoved by the tiny buttons worn by senators that read, “Thank you Capitol Police.” Many of the officers said that they would prefer a paycheck.

Senate Republicans seemed chastened, and ready to move on, especially since their members helped cobble together the solution. “It turned out just like I expected,” said Senator Mike Johanns of Nebraska. “This was never going be a successful strategy.”

Hard-line Republicans in the House blamed their more moderate colleagues for how it all ended, but they had nothing but love for Mr. Boehner, of Ohio.

“I’ve actually been really proud of Speaker Boehner the last two and half weeks,” said Representative Raúl R. Labrador of Idaho, one of a small group of members who earlier this year did not vote to re-elect Mr. Boehner as speaker.

“I’m more upset with my Republican conference, to be honest with you,” Mr. Labrador said. “It’s been Republicans here who apparently always want to fight — but they want to fight the next fight — that have given Speaker Boehner the inability to be successful in this fight.”
415 2013-10-17 A powerful typhoon struck eastern Japan on Wednesday, causing landslides and floods that left at least 17 people dead and 43 missing, the police said. Tokyo briefly ground to a halt as bullet trains and flights were suspended when the storm, Typhoon Wipha, swept through with strong winds and rain. At the wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant, workers released the Pacific rainwater that collected near storage tanks, but the company that operates the plant said the contamination was far below safe drinking water levels.
416 2013-10-17 The London gallery, Marlborough Fine Art, eventually agreed to handle the sale, and a Swiss collector agreed to pay $32 million for the masterpiece, Claude Monet’s well-known water lily painting, “Le Bassin aux Nymphéas” (1899).

That painting had disappeared from an Upper East Side town house in late 1985, along with another Monet work and valuable paintings by Alfred Sisley and Albert Marquet, just before President Ferdinand Marcos was removed from power. The house had been the Philippine Consulate, but Mrs. Marcos had treated it as her New York residence.

Mr. Lynch said Ms. Bautista had taken the paintings and hidden them for two decades, even though she was aware the Philippine government wanted to recover some of them. Then she ran out of money.

“She was broke, she was financially desperate, she had to find some income,” he said. “Beginning in 2009, she turned to the last thing she could to generate money: the missing paintings she had been sitting on for so many years.”

Mr. Lynch said Ms. Bautista and her two nephews in Bangkok tried unsuccessfully to sell the paintings on the black market in Thailand. Then Ms. Bautista started peddling the Monet masterpiece to galleries in New York and London. Selling that work was less problematic, Mr. Lynch said, because it had never been placed on the Philippine government’s list of missing paintings.

After the sale, Mr. Lynch said, Ms. Bautista paid off her debts, bought a $2.2 million condominium in Manhattan, sent $5 million to her nephews and banked about $15 million, never sending a dime to Mrs. Marcos.

Ms. Bautista’s lawyer, Susan Hoffinger, argued that her client had been thrust into a political struggle between the Marcos family and the family of President Benigno Aquino in the Philippines. No court in the Philippines has ruled on whether the paintings belong to the state or to Mrs. Marcos, she said.

“Vilma Bautista has been made a scapegoat in this political struggle, criminally charged with her future put at stake,” she said. Ms. Hoffinger also asserted that the 1991 document giving Ms. Bautista the right to sell the painting — known as a certificate of authority — was still valid. The prosecution had said it would be proved fraudulent.

“That’s just speculation,” Ms. Hoffinger said. “The prosecution didn’t tell you in his opening that they will bring Imelda Marcos in to testify here. They will not. They aren’t bringing her. Without that testimony from Mrs. Marcos, there will be no evidence that that certificate of authority isn’t valid.”
417 2013-10-17 The Knicks have yet to start the regular season, but some of the focus is already beginning to drift toward next summer, when Carmelo Anthony is eligible to opt out of the final year of his contract. According to an article posted Wednesday on The New York Observer Web site, Anthony fully intends to do so.

“I want to be a free agent,” Anthony told The Observer in a lengthy profile. “I think everybody in the N.B.A. dreams to be a free agent at least one time in their career.” He added, “So yes, I want that experience.”

It is a story line that could easily balloon into an issue that trails the team like exhaust fumes for months. The Knicks, who traveled to Anthony’s hometown, Baltimore, on Wednesday to face the Washington Wizards in a preseason game Thursday night, declined to comment through a spokesman.

Anthony, who led the N.B.A. in scoring last season, has two years and about $45 million remaining on his contract, but he can terminate the deal at the conclusion of the 2013-14 season through a player option. If Anthony re-signed with the Knicks, even after testing free agency, he would be eligible for a five-year contract worth $129 million, according to N.B.A. rules. The most he could sign for with another team is $96 million over four years.

Anthony has been noncommittal about his future with the Knicks, saying that he plans to wait until after the season to weigh his options.

“When the time comes, I’ll deal with that,” Anthony said late last month. “I’m not going to go through the season thinking about my contract.”
418 2013-10-17 It is not just the cava vintners saying this, but also executives from the spectrum of industries that make up Catalonia’s 200 billion euro economy, roughly equivalent to that of Portugal. The region blends a powerful financial-services sector, led by the big bank La Caixa, with a strong industrial base that includes traditional sectors like car manufacturing as well as scientific research and medical technology.

This week the Catalan regional government, led by Artur Mas, quantified exactly what it thought the central government owed Catalonia, in terms of insufficient investments and fiscal disadvantages: 9.4 billion euros, including 5.8 billion euros of infrastructure spending.

In response, the central government said on Wednesday that it would soon publish its own set of figures to dismantle the Catalan claim that the region’s contribution to the national economy and its tax revenue is far more than what it gets back from Madrid.

But with Spain expected to post economic data for the third quarter showing that it has finally emerged from a two-year recession — its second downturn since 2008 — Catalan businesspeople say they worry less about what Mr. Mas thinks Madrid owes his region and more about whether political instability could hamper Spain’s prospects of returning to precrisis growth levels. “In any diverse society, there are different points of view, but it’s clear entrepreneurs prefer to operate in a context of certainty,” said Salvador Alemany, the chairman of Abertis, which is based in the Catalan capital, Barcelona, and which is one of Europe’s biggest operators of toll roads and airports. “Consensus is always better than conflict.”

Still, there has been little sign of consensus of late. In September, hundreds of thousands of pro-independence people joined hands to form a human chain across Catalonia. Following that show of force, Mr. Mas said Catalonia would forge ahead with plans to hold a referendum on independence next year, despite Madrid’s warning that such a vote would violate Spanish law.

Mr. Rajoy recently called on Mr. Mas to show “magnanimity” and drop the referendum plan. Mr. Mas responded that it was instead for Mr. Rajoy to be magnanimous and give Catalans the right to vote.

Catalans have long defended their ancestral culture and language. But secessionism shifted from fringe to mainstream political thinking a little more than a year ago after Mr. Mas failed to convince Mr. Rajoy that Catalonia should be allowed to reduce its contribution to a fiscal system that redistributes part of the tax revenues to other, poorer regions of Spain. Catalonia’s 7.5 million inhabitants represent 16 percent of the Spanish population.

But Catalonia has also benefited from being part of greater Spain. For example, it was the 1992 Olympics — in part financed by the Madrid government — that helped transform Barcelona into one of Europe’s most visited cities, with more than seven million tourists a year, compared with one million before.

Some Catalan executives have clearly embraced secessionism, particularly members of the 100-strong business association called FemCAT, set up to help Catalonia “take its place on the world and European stage,” according to its 2004 founding manifesto.

“We can construct a much better economic model for Catalonia than the one that has been imposed on us from Madrid,” said Jordi Bagó i Mons, a member of FemCAT who is chief executive of Serhs, a provider of hotel catering and other tourism services.

But most of the Catalan business community has yet to declare a formal position in the independence debate. Antoni Abad i Pous, president of Cecot, an association that represents about 8,000 Catalan businesses, deplored the shortfall in Catalan infrastructure spending by Madrid. He said that “97 percent of our members want the current relationship with Spain to be changed, but that doesn’t necessarily mean independence.” A year ago, when Cecot last surveyed its members, 53 percent said they would welcome a separate Catalan state.

Mr. Rajoy, for his part, has so far managed to keep the secessionist threat at bay — thanks in part to disagreement among Catalan politicians over how far their separatist push should go. Even the Convergència i Unió party, led by Mr. Mas, is far from unified on that point.

The Catalan government has also been weakened by corruption scandals, including a case centering on whether Ferrovial, a construction company, paid kickbacks to local politicians to secure the public-works contract for Barcelona’s Palau de la Música Catalana concert hall. There are also concerns that, despite enacting unpopular austerity cuts, it has so far struggled to clean up its own public accounts and a debt pile that has doubled in the past three years to 52 billion euros. Catalonia accounts for more than a quarter of the combined debt of Spain’s 17 regions.

Xavier Torra, chief executive of Simon, a maker of electrical switches and sockets, said the secessionist debate had become “far too emotional” and out of touch with Catalonia’s economic reality. “The Catalan business voice has remained largely silent,” he said, “because most of us understand that, whether people want to be independent or not, we are already part of a completely interdependent and global economy.”

Simon is a prime example of a business that has far outgrown its Catalan origins. It started a century ago as a family-owned workshop in the town of Olot, but now generates 60 percent of its 300 million euros of annual revenue overseas. It has factories in a dozen countries, including China, Poland and Russia.

The more serious concern for some investors is whether Mr. Rajoy’s government could veto Catalonia’s membership of the European Union if it seceded without Madrid’s approval. Last month, the promoters of a 4.8 billion euro gambling and leisure resort, called Barcelona World, warned that their Catalan project could be scuttled without guaranteed E.U. membership.

As for the cava makers, Mr. Bonet Ferrer of Freixenet, which is based in Sant Sadurní d’Anoia, said companies in his industry had extra reason to be cautious. They stood on the front line of any consumer-led boycott if political tension between Madrid and Barcelona continued to mount.

His personal view on independence? “Catalonia is an essential part of Spain,” Mr. Bonet Ferrer said, “and that is how it should continue.”
419 2013-10-17 “From the Start, Signs of Trouble at Health Portal” (front page, Oct. 13) made the point that the response to the new insurance marketplace was “huge.” But from what I can tell, much of this “huge” response consisted of consumers who just wanted to check out the different plans and, perhaps, calculate an estimated cost of one or more plans.

This likely being the case, the officials in charge made a mistake when they decided to require every consumer to “register and create password-protected accounts before they could shop for health plans.” Obviously, this process overwhelmed and locked up the system.

Though painful for the Obama administration to do, the site should be shut down and the system redesigned to direct consumers first to the overview of the plans. Then, if they want to buy, they could register at that point.

If the right people are involved in this fix, they could probably have it done and tested by mid-November.

The writer has managed and monitored large information technology projects as a state and federal employee.
420 2013-10-17 In “From the Streets to the ‘World’s Best Mom’ ” (column, Oct. 13), Nicholas D. Kristof profiles a survivor of domestic sex trafficking, saying “there are also women (and men) who sell sex voluntarily.” In my years of working to end prostitution and sex trafficking, I have never met any of them. Not one.

What I have seen is that the so-called voluntarily prostituted entered the sex industry as children and then find it nearly impossible to leave. Not at all surprising, as these (mostly) women endure years, decades even, of paid sexual abuse and need assistance to rebuild their lives, assistance that is hard to come by.

Today’s prostituted children are tomorrow’s prostituted adults. They are the same people. We need to bring the same measure of empathy to them both as we work to end the world’s oldest oppression.

The writer is executive director of the Coalition Against Trafficking in Women.

The story of Shelia Faye Simpkins, featured in Nicholas D. Kristof’s column, is both heartening and discouraging — heartening in her success and the assistance of Magdalene House, discouraging in that it demonstrates that sex trafficking and the exploitation of minors occurs every day across this country.

I had the privilege and difficult task of co-leading a comprehensive study by the Institute of Medicine and the National Research Council on sex trafficking and exploitation of minors in the United States. The recently released report revealed that multiple factors put minors at risk of becoming victims.
421 2013-10-17 The officials spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to disclose internal discussions. The Wall Street Journal  previously reported on a recent court filing in which the department, reversing an earlier stance, said it was obliged to disclose to defendants if evidence used in court was linked to warrantless surveillance, but it remained unclear if there were any such cases.

The debate was part of the fallout about surveillance set off by leaks by , the former N.S.A. contractor. They have drawn attention to the 2008 law, the FISA Amendments Act, which legalized a form of the Bush administration’s once-secret warrantless surveillance program.

In February, the Supreme Court dismissed a case challenging its constitutionality because the plaintiffs, led by , could not prove they had been wiretapped. Mr. Verrilli had told the justices that someone else would have legal standing to trigger review of the program because prosecutors would notify people facing evidence derived from surveillance under the 2008 law.

But it turned out that Mr. Verrilli’s assurances clashed with the practices of national security prosecutors, who had not been alerting such defendants that evidence in their cases had stemmed from wiretapping their conversations without a warrant.

Jameel Jaffer, an lawyer who argued in the Supreme Court on behalf of the plaintiffs challenging the 2008 law, said that someone in the Justice Department should have flagged the issue earlier and that the department must do more than change its practice going forward.

“The government has an obligation to tell the Supreme Court, in some formal way, that a claim it made repeatedly, and that the court relied on in its decision, was simply not true,” he said. “And it has an obligation to notify the criminal defendants whose communications were monitored under the statute that their communications were monitored.”

A Justice Department spokesman declined to comment. The department’s practices came under scrutiny after a December 2012 speech by Senator , the chairwoman of the Intelligence Committee. During debate over extending the 2008 law, she warned that terrorism remained a threat. Listing several terrorism-related arrests, she added, “so this has worked.”

Lawyers in two of the cases Ms. Feinstein mentioned — one in and one in — asked prosecutors this spring to confirm that surveillance under the 2008 law had played a role in the investigations of their clients so they could challenge it.

But prosecutors said they did not have to make such a disclosure. On June 7, published an article citing Ms. Feinstein’s speech and the stance the prosecutors had taken.

As a result, Mr. Verrilli sought an explanation from national security lawyers about why they had not flagged the issue when vetting his Supreme Court briefs and helping him practice for the arguments, according to officials.

The national security lawyers explained that it was a misunderstanding, the officials said. Because the rules on wiretapping warrants in foreign intelligence cases are different from the rules in ordinary criminal investigations, they said, the division has long used a narrow understanding of what “derived from” means in terms of when it must disclose specifics to defendants.

In national security cases involving orders issued under the of 1978, or FISA, prosecutors alert defendants only that some evidence derives from a FISA wiretap, but not details like whether there had just been one order or a chain of several. Only judges see those details.

After the 2008 law, that generic approach meant that prosecutors did not disclose when some traditional FISA wiretap orders had been obtained using information gathered through the warrantless wiretapping program. Division officials believed it would have to disclose the use of that program only if it introduced a recorded phone call or intercepted e-mail gathered directly from the program — and for five years, they avoided doing so.

For Mr. Verrilli, that raised a more fundamental question: was there any persuasive legal basis for failing to clearly notify defendants that they faced evidence linked to the 2008 warrantless surveillance law, thereby preventing them from knowing that they had an opportunity to argue that it derived from an unconstitutional search?

The debate stretched through June and July, officials said, including multiple meetings and dueling memorandums by lawyers in the solicitor general office and in the national security division, which has been led since March by acting Assistant Attorney General John Carlin. The deliberations were overseen by James Cole, the deputy attorney general.

National security lawyers and a policy advisory committee of senior focused on operational worries: Disclosure risked alerting foreign targets that their communications were being monitored, so intelligence agencies might become reluctant to share information with law enforcement officials that could become a problem in a later trial.

But Mr. Verrilli argued that withholding disclosure from defendants could not be justified legally, officials said. Lawyers with several agencies — including the , the N.S.A. and the office of the director of national intelligence — concurred, officials said, and the division changed the practice going forward.

National Security Division lawyers began looking at other cases, eventually identifying the one that will be publicly identified soon and are still looking through closed cases and deciding what to do about them.

But in a twist, in the Chicago and Fort Lauderdale cases that Ms. Feinstein had mentioned, prosecutors made new court filings saying they did not intend to use any evidence derived from surveillance of the defendants under the 2008 law.

When defense lawyers asked about Ms. Feinstein’s remarks, a Senate lawyer responded in a letter that she “did not state, and did not mean to state” that those cases were linked to the warrantless surveillance program. Rather, the lawyer wrote, her point was that terrorism remained a problem.

In a recent court filing, the lawyers wrote that it is “hard to believe” Ms. Feinstein would cite “random” cases when pressing to reauthorize the 2008 law, suggesting either that the government is still concealing something or that she had employed the “politics of fear” to influence the debate. A spokesman for Ms. Feinstein said she preferred to let the letter speak for itself.
422 2013-10-17 Many who get through the log-in process on the new health insurance exchanges then have trouble determining whether the offered policies will provide the coverage they need....
423 2013-10-17 Officially, Mrs. Powell was a director of Motown’s artist development department. But in reality she was equal parts headmistress, psychotherapist, iron-willed favorite aunt and temperate bartender.

Her combined ministrations, she told her charges, were meant to equip them for precisely two contingencies: invitations to the White House and invitations to Buckingham Palace.

“I teach class,” Mrs. Powell was fond of saying. “And class will turn the heads of kings and queens.”

Though Mrs. Powell was associated with the label for just five years, from 1964 to 1969, her presence was felt long beyond.

“Every asset of my personality has been by her influence,” said Ms. Reeves, who became a lifelong friend. “Even to the end, she was making sure that I was standing with posture and exuberant grace.”

At Motown, singers were required to take instruction from Mrs. Powell for two hours a day whenever they were in Detroit. Her curriculum covered deportment onstage and off: how to speak impeccably and stand erect, how to glide instead of merely walking, how to sit in a limousine with the ankles crossed just so.

There was also individualized instruction. Ms. Ross, for instance, favored exorbitantly long false eyelashes. That did not sit well with Mrs. Powell, who installed shorter ones.

Mr. Gaye liked to sing with his eyes closed. That did not sit well with Mrs. Powell either, and she insisted he keep them open.

She once came upon the Supremes practicing a dance called the shake. That emphatically did not sit well with Mrs. Powell, as she recalled in a 1986 interview with People magazine:

“ ‘You are protruding the buttocks,’ ” she admonished them. “ ‘Whenever you do a naughty step like the shake, add some class to it. Instead of shaking and acting tough, you should roll your buttocks under and keep smiling all the time.’ Then I showed them. They were shocked that I could do it and at how much better it looked my way.”

Though Mrs. Powell was barely more than five feet tall, the world seemed scarcely large enough to contain her. By the time she arrived at Motown, she had been a stage actress, model and manicurist; a charm-school director; and the founder of the what is widely described as Detroit’s first modeling agency for African-Americans.

Maxine Blair was born on May 30, 1915, in Texarkana, Tex., and reared by an aunt in Chicago. She began acting as a teenager, eventually appearing with the Negro Drama League, a black repertory company there.

She later worked as a model and trained as a manicurist and cosmetologist at Madam C. J. Walker’s School of Beauty Culture, founded by the celebrated black entrepreneur.

After moving to Detroit in the 1940s, Mrs. Powell founded the Maxine Powell Finishing and Modeling School in 1951, which placed the first black models in campaigns for the city’s major automakers.

One of Mrs. Powell’s models was Gwen Gordy, Berry’s sister. She told her brother that Mrs. Powell was just the person to groom his young stars.

Mr. Gordy demurred at first, seeing no need. But his sister prevailed, and before long Mrs. Powell had closed her agency and moved to Motown, where she made herself indispensable.

She often accompanied the artists on tour, serving as sounding board, chaperon and restrained mixologist.

“After a performance, I made all the drinks,” Mrs. Powell told People. “Melvin Franklin of the Temptations said you had to have five of my drinks before you ever felt anything.”

Mrs. Powell’s marriage to James Powell ended in divorce. No immediate family members survive.

After leaving Motown, Mrs. Powell taught personal development for many years at Wayne County Community College in Detroit. She later worked part time as an aide to Ms. Reeves when she served on the Detroit City Council from 2005 to 2009.

One of the most noteworthy things about Mrs. Powell’s tenure at Motown was her prescience. One day, she recalled in the interview with People, she taught her students how to sit on stools.

“We don’t go to bars, why should we sit on a stool?” they said.

“A lady with class can sit on a garbage pail and look good,” Mrs. Powell replied.

Shortly afterward, the Supremes appeared on “The Mike Douglas Show,” and lo and behold, there were stools there.

The Supremes sat, and by Mrs. Powell’s lights, they sat well.
424 2013-10-17 One important guest was missing from the New York premiere of “Her,” the new movie from Spike Jonze, which closed the New York Film Festival on Saturday night: the woman who plays the title character.

As Mr. Jonze told a thousand festivalgoers at Alice Tully Hall, his leading lady Scarlett Johansson couldn’t be there because “she’s in Paris filming another movie.” But it was a fitting absence in a way.

In the film, Ms. Johansson doesn’t play a person, but a futuristic operating system whose capabilities far exceed Siri’s. “So Scarlett’s in the ether, as she is in the movie,” he said to much laughter from the cineaste crowd, which included Michael Stipe and Philip Seymour Hoffman.

Following the brief introduction, the lights went down and what followed was the weird but poignant story of a man (played by Joaquin Phoenix) whose marriage has ended and who falls in love with a computer operating system. Then, because she is a computer program, and he has a body and physical needs, the relationship grows complicated.

After the movie, some in the audience were troubled by the larger questions the film raises about romantic love and our overdependence on technology.
425 2013-10-17 The full details on the Coca-Cola Goldline Program....
426 2013-10-17 Do a not-all-that-deep Google dig on Jon Koon, the owner and designer of Private Stock, and you’ll happen upon pictures of him at the 2011 birthday party of the rapper Young Jeezy. Mr. Koon helped build Jeezy’s clothing line, 8732, and in the photos, in a room full of people skilled at flaunting their wealth, he looks like a man at peace with his success: gold sunglasses, cigar half-smoked, Champagne bottle uncorked and gripped by the neck.

But look a little closer. Check out the placket on his white shirt, which is accentuated with wings of a sort, giving the basic shirt texture and dimension. It’s a slight wink, an acknowledgment that despite what you may see, money isn’t the only relevant metric.

This small flourish of exaggeration, this embrace of the slightly askew, is one of the hallmarks of Private Stock, Mr. Koon’s luxury line, which opened its first bricks-and-mortar store in April. A polo shirt with an oversize collar (showy), a cardigan with a second layer of buttons sewn in (clever), an upscale work shirt with a shiny collar bar (sharp) — lots of times, his pieces are one tweak to the left of traditional.

But don’t get it twisted: money matters, too. A lot. Though little known and not widely distributed, Private Stock is a line with luxury ambitions and luxury prices. The setting, of course, is luxe, too. The SoHo space is gallerylike and, like an installation by the design firm Snarkitecture, white upon white upon white. Distressed jeans are hung like canvases (or, let’s face it, rugs) on racks that slide in and out of the wall in the rear.

Up front, a few accessories are displayed behind glass that only becomes transparent when you flick a light switch. The couple of times I did so to see what was behind them, a salesclerk scurried over after I’d walked away to flick them back off, as if resetting a magic trick to dupe the next mark. The koi in the pond on the store’s lower level looked healthy. If you want to talk with Mr. Koon about custom pieces, you can go downstairs and see them swim up close. The store’s Instagram feed has photos of the K-pop shape-shifter G-Dragon. Presumably he got to go downstairs.
427 2013-10-17 Shares in Stanley Black & Decker, the tool maker, fell more than 14 percent after the company lowered its guidance for the year amid weakening emerging markets and as the United States government shutdown has hurt organic growth.

BlackRock, the world’s largest money manager, said its third-quarter profit grew 15 percent, amid strong global demand from its retail and institutional clients. The stock gained 0.6 percent.

“Earnings season has gotten off to a good start with the vast majority of companies either meeting or beating estimates, with an average surprise of 4.7 percent” so far, said Jonathan Golub, chief United States market strategist at RBC Capital Markets in New York.

With the consensus view among investors that a deal will be found in Washington, safe-haven German Bunds fell in line with benchmark 10-year United States Treasuries as European trading picked up, pushing yields to three-week highs.

Commodity traders were on the sidelines too, leaving copper lower and oil and bullion little changed. New York benchmark crude oil was down 14 cents, to $101.07 a barrel, and spot gold gained 0.2 percent to $1,275.60 an ounce.

In Washington the Senate prepared for a last ditch effort Wednesday to avoid a historic lapse in the government’s borrowing authority, a breach that President Obama has said could lead to default and deliver a damaging blow to the global economy.

After a day of stop-and-go negotiations, the top Democrat and Republican in the Senate were said to be close to agreeing on a proposal to raise the debt limit - and reopen the partially shuttered government - for consideration by the full Senate on Wednesday.

Markets were rattled after Fitch Ratings warned late Tuesday that it could cut the sovereign credit rating of the United States from AAA, citing the political brinkmanship over raising the federal debt ceiling.

In Europe, Italy’s new budget plans and robust British jobs data were attracting attention.

Sterling briefly hit a one-week high of $1.6064 against the dollar and 84.28 pence per euro as a steady unemployment number was followed by one of the Bank of England’s policy makers saying he expected Britain’s economic growth to continue to power upward this year.

Milan stocks continued a recent outperformance too, rising 0.5 percent versus a fall of 0.4 percent on the pan-European FTSEurofirst 300, as investors gave a tentative thumbs-up to a 2014 budget containing tax and spending cuts aimed at stimulating the recession-bound economy.

“I don’t want to make dramatic claims but this is a significant step in the right direction, with lower taxes for companies and workers,” Prime Minister Enrico Letta told reporters during a break a the cabinet meeting.
428 2013-10-17 “The success of Grand Theft Auto V has put a lot of pressure on Watch Dogs,” said Mike Hickey, an analyst at the Benchmark Company in Denver. “They want it to be their next big franchise.”

The need to strike it big has become increasingly crucial for the world’s largest video game companies. Ubisoft, a rare French company that has succeeded in the technology field, ranks fourth in the industry, behind Activision Blizzard, Electronic Arts and Nintendo, based on its sales last year of about $1.8 billion, largely on the strength of its Assassin’s Creed games.

The global industry is projected to generate a 5 percent increase in its combined revenue, to $66 billion, by the end of the year, according to the data provider DFC Intelligence.

“You only get one chance to make a first impression with gamers,” said Edward Williams, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets in New York. “The delays bring into question the original timeline put forward by Ubisoft, but they want to give it the best opportunity for sustained success.”

For Ubisoft, based in the outskirts of Paris, the postponement of its latest game will hurt. The company said that it now expected to post an annual loss of up to $95 million, compared with a previous profit forecast for up to $170 million.

Ubisoft also has delayed the release of another new game, the Crew, a car racing franchise, until September 2014. While an important addition to its stable of games, analysts said, the Crew was not expected to become as big a hit.

“The tough decisions we are taking today to fully realize the major potential of our new creations have an impact on our short-term performance,” Ubisoft’s chief executive, Yves Guillemot, said in a statement. “The additional time given to the development of our titles will allow them to fulfill their huge ambitions.”

Founded in 1986, the company now employs more than 8,000 people worldwide, including around 2,500 at a production studio in Montreal.

While the company’s stock price plummeted on Wednesday, analysts said that the market might have overreacted to the news. Delays ahead of official releases are not uncommon in the gaming industry.

Analysts added that Ubisoft’s delay also would allow its new games to take advantage of the next-generation consoles that will be released by the end of the year.

Microsoft, Sony and Nintendo all have invested billions of dollars on their latest gaming machines, which improve computer hardware to give gamers a more realistic experience.

In the short term, Ubisoft will have to rely on its existing Assassin’s Creed franchise, the latest version of which will be released at the end of the month. The game was created in 2007, and is expected to be turned into a Hollywood movie during 2015.

The success of that blockbuster has increased the pressure of Ubisoft to score similar successes with its new games. Analysts say the reaction to the company’s latest delays illustrates the pressure that the company now faces in the increasingly competitive video game industry, even if it was a smart move for the company’s long-term health.

“The company made the right decision,” said Mr. Hickey of Benchmark. “They could have put out a lower-quality game, but it’s best to wait to get it right.”
429 2013-10-17 Once adversaries think of democracy as a zero-sum game, the next step is to conceive of politics as war: no quarter given, no prisoners taken, no mercy shown.

For a long time now, the language used by both sides in American politics has been inflamed by bellicose metaphors. Elected officials “tear into” their opponents, “take the fight” to their opponent and engage — as we see clearly now, in the third week of the federal government shutdown — in the tactical equivalent of trench warfare. Where language leads, conduct follows.

The problem is that politics is not war, but the only reliable alternative to it. Once we think of politics as war, battle cries drown out democratic persuasion. By slow degrees, belligerence and self-righteousness make cooperation impossible.

There cannot be much doubt that, in the impasse over the shutdown in Washington, and in the possibility of a default on the federal debt, we are seeing what happens when a politics of enemies supplants a politics of adversaries.

Anyone who has lived in a dysfunctional or struggling democracy knows that a politics of enmity can end in rule by presidential decree, or even in political violence. Americans consider such scenarios unthinkable. Yet even if the standoff over the debt ceiling ends in a deal, it will already have exacted a brutal price. Extremists will come away believing that hostage-taking might work next time. When blackmail becomes standard practice, democracy is pulled a step closer to permanent paralysis.

Some experts believe that the enmity mind-set simply reflects real divisions in the society at large. Inequalities in income, wealth and opportunity have soared, the argument goes, making it impossible for ordinary Americans to respect each other as adversaries.

Other thoughtful observers argue — I think convincingly — that while factions at either end of the political spectrum do see each other as enemies, most Americans are actually not as divided as their politics makes them seem. The real problem, in this account, is the political system: districts drawn so that incumbents never face the challenge of reaching out beyond their own base; primary systems that reward extremist activists over moderate pragmatists; campaign finance rules that allow big, opaque donations by wealthy interests.

From this perspective, the politicians aren’t so much reflecting the divisions in American society as they are exacerbating them, from the top down.

The tendency is to magnify differences of policy into differences of conviction. For example, Republican and Democrat voters alike are ever more dependent on government programs like Social Security and Medicare, but you would never know this from the way Tea Party Republicans describe Obamacare as an assault on freedom.

Politicians ratchet up manageable differences of policy into conflicts over identity and value. In this way, what Freud called the “narcissism of minor differences” drives party activists into closed worlds of discourse, while leaving the rest of Americans feeling that “the system” fails to serve them at all. They cease participating altogether, leaving the politicians to brawl in a deserted public square.

Besides magnifying differences, the politics of enmity makes competition viscerally personal. The object is not to rebut what people say, but to deny them the right to be heard at all. Attack ads that deny standing have been a feature of American politics from Lyndon B. Johnson’s depiction of Barry M. Goldwater as mentally unstable menace to the “swift boating” of John F. Kerry. The politics of personal destruction have come to seem normal, even acceptable.

More civility and gentility — being nicer — will not cure this. What needs to change are the institutions themselves, and they will only change when the political class in Washington realizes that, just as in American football, there are some hits that are killing the game.

Saving the game means changing the rules. Until quite recently Americans believed their democracy was so exceptional that they had nothing to learn from other countries. Now, real dysfunction may make them look more carefully at how other democracies avoid gridlock. Britain, France and Germany, as well as Canada and Australia, have impartial districting commissions that prevent gerrymandering and force incumbents to reach out rather than play solely to their base. They have campaign finance rules that prevent rich cranks from funding rabid partisanship. They have rules to prevent politicians from grandstanding abuse of process in their legislatures. They have open primaries that prevent electoral capture by fanatics. If Americans still feel that other countries’ democratic practices have nothing to teach them, they can learn from reform at the state and local level.

What’s indefensible is a political class that believes nothing better is possible — a class that benefits from enmity without realizing that the damage from it is corrosive, and possibly irreversible.

Michael Ignatieff, a former leader of the Liberal Party of Canada, is the author, most recently, of “Fire and Ashes: Success and Failure in Politics.”
430 2013-10-17 The new Leica C point-and-shoot camera has a restrained elegance and the Leica logo, which speaks to a rich heritage of imagery from photographic greats like Henri Cartier-Bresson.

But as with other Leicas, that heritage comes at a price.

Whether it’s worth that price is a tough call, because underneath that body by Audi and Leica logo is a Panasonic Lumix DMC-LF1, which sells for about $500 online — that’s nearly $200 less than the Leica.

Both cameras are capable of producing great images, sharing an f2 to f5.9 Leica lens and 7.44-by-5.58-millimeter, 12-megapixel sensor.

The Leica C doesn’t have the most intuitive set of controls, but once you get used to the menu system you can find scene settings for things like sports, night portrait and pets. It has a panorama setting for stitching together long horizontal scenes, and you can customize two scenes with settings you choose. There is an electronic viewfinder as well as a 3-inch LCD screen, so you can compose your photo by looking through a small eyepiece, which is useful in full sunlight.

A Leica representative said the main difference between its camera and the Panasonic was the firmware, which handles the images differently than the Panasonic, although it was unclear in what way (if you shoot in RAW format, which is minimally processed data, it shouldn’t make a difference). The Leica also comes with a two-year warranty.

Another element that muddies the water is that the Leica comes with Adobe’s indispensable Lightroom 5 image-editing software, which lists for $140 (or as an $80 upgrade from an older version). That puts the difference in cost between the two cameras at a more manageable $60.
431 2013-10-17 Q. Ever since I upgraded, I see my podcasts in iTunes but not in the iPhone music’s app. Where did my shows go?

A. Beginning with iOS 6 last year, Apple began to move those types of audio files into their own separate app, called Podcasts. Audio and video files from iTunes U, the company’s online archive of academic and educational materials, also got their own namesake app.

Apple designed its free Podcasts app to handle all podcast-related activity on iOS devices. Once you install the app, you can subscribe, download or stream shows right on the iPhone — and find any podcast episodes you downloaded through iTunes on the computer and synced to your phone. The Podcasts app (and an online manual for it) is at www.apple.com/support/ios/podcasts.

Not everyone is a fan of the Podcasts app or Apple’s decision to move podcasts out of the Music app. Within online forums on Apple’s site, users have criticized the app’s erratic behavior with syncing shows and functionality with certain automobile music systems. Others have devised workarounds for getting podcasts to sync back up with the Music app again, like changing the file’s “Media Kind” from Podcast to Audiobook in the iTunes settings.

Podcasts has had a few revisions since its initial release, so Apple does seem to be trying to improve the program. Using the most updated version of the app, iTunes and iOS 7 should help the experience. Still, if you try it out and find it not to your liking, the App Store has plenty of other podcast player-manager apps in stock, although you may have to pay a few dollars. Alternatives include PodCruncher ($3) and Downcast ($3).
432 2013-10-17 Activision has built its Skylanders brand into a global powerhouse, with sales of more than $500 million in 2012 in the United States. This year, the company hopes to expand with the next video game in the franchise, the highly anticipated Skylanders Swap Force, which was released on Sunday.

Like the two Skylanders video games before it, Swap Force is a clever blend of physical and digital toys. When the toys are placed on a platform that is plugged into a video game console, their digital counterparts appear on the screen. Each character has unique abilities that are used to complete the missions in the game.

With Swap Force, Activision added a twist: players can swap the top and bottom halves of 16 new figures, which are held together by strong magnets. Now, each half has its own ability – like bouncing, climbing, digging, flying or teleporting – that can be paired with the abilities of other Swap Force figures to create new combinations that unlock additional areas of the game.

Activision plans to release more than 50 figures for the Swap Force game, 32 of them new to the Skylanders world. And the Swap Force game is compatible with all of the figures from the previous games, Skylanders Spyro’s Adventure and Skylanders Giants. However, new figures will not work on the previous games.

The Swap Force figures are easily interchangeable; just remove one from the platform and replace it with another, and the new character pops right into the game without any loss of gameplay. Or remove half and replace it with half of another; the two halves click into place, creating a new character.

But make sure to keep the platform nearby, because specific figures (or the halves of two different figures) are required to unlock certain portals and challenges as the game progresses. The game even hints that certain figures are more helpful to complete each mission. I found myself getting up every 15 minutes or so to change the figure on the platform.
433 2013-10-17 A hearty filling that works well with red peppers....
434 2013-10-18 In our latest issue, we explore distinct forms of design, from fashion, furniture and architecture....
435 2013-10-18 The reappearance of the white-tailed deer in New York City represents a real threat to the city’s habitats, and possibly to the deer themselves....
436 2013-10-18 The capital comes back to life with tourists and federal workers after the end of the government shutdown Wednesday night.
437 2013-10-18 Robert C. Trosten, the former financial chief, pleaded guilty to fraud in the Refco case and has been cooperating with prosecutors. Cooperation agreements typically require that defendants not commit any further crimes....
438 2013-10-18 A British judge has concluded that neither Andrew nor Mark Madoff had any knowledge of their father’s Ponzi scheme and had some harsh words for the trustee seeing to recover money for victims of the fraud....
439 2013-10-18 Peppers of all shapes and colors are still on offer at autumn markets. I’ve been buying them by the bagful and stuffing them with all sorts of fillings, some traditional, most not....
440 2013-10-18 Twitter is not profitable, while Facebook was when it went public. But Twitter’s revenue is growing faster....
441 2013-10-18 With summer over, Gurney’s Inn in Montauk, N.Y., is offering spa and yoga packages....
442 2013-10-18 Off the Charts: In the Developed World, Industrial Production Stalls

Industrial production continues to rise in countries like India and China, but has stalled out in much of the developed world. In the United States, it is rising, but remains below the level reached in 2007.
443 2013-10-18 Consumer outlook falls. The benefits of franchising. How employees waste time at work....
444 2013-10-18 The search giant is making less money on advertising as usage patterns change, but its latest financial report sent its stock up in after-hours trading....
445 2013-10-18 One of the lead organizers, Alane Salierno Mason, an executive editor at W. W. Norton & Company, said she began thinking about a festival last spring while fund-raising for literacy education at her children’s public school. She began talking with Veronica Liu, who founded Word Up, the community bookstore, and the idea was born. They wanted to celebrate and support local writers. They wanted to make reading and writing accessible and tantalizing for neighborhood youngsters, many of whom are poor. They wanted to forge connections between the neighborhood’s English and Spanish speakers.

They also wanted to secure a foothold, a spot — anything! — for Washington Heights on New York’s cultural map.

“It’s amazing how we continue to be invisible for the rest of the city,” said Sandra A. García-Betancourt, president of the Northern Manhattan Arts Alliance, which showcases local artists, gives grants and puts on the annual monthlong Uptown Arts Stroll. (It is also involved in Uptown Lit.)

Sandwiched between Harlem and Inwood, Washington Heights offers an ebullient mash-up of Dominican culture, Beaux-Arts and Tudor-style buildings, and increasing numbers of gentrifiers drawn to its spacious apartments and tree-lined hilltops.

Some residents are glad that the giddy wave of popularity currently cresting in Brooklyn has not crashed over their neighborhood, but they also smart over how much Washington Heights failed to show up on many radars. Investigating tourist maps on Google one day, Ms. Betancourt discovered that many maps stopped short at Harlem, or, if anything, mentioned the Cloisters as Upper Manhattan’s sole draw. No mention of the Dyckman Farmhouse, the oldest such house on the island. No mention of the American Academy of Arts and Letters. No mention of the Hispanic Society of America, with its paintings by El Greco, Velázquez and Goya.

Ms. Copeland, who coined the festival’s nickname during a planning meeting, said awareness about the neighborhood had improved since she moved there eight and a half years ago, only to discover that nervous downtown friends would only dare visit in a cab. Yet people still ask her how long it takes to get to Manhattan. Cementing the sense of apartness are the new green cabs, which pick up street hails in the outer boroughs — as well as in northern Manhattan.

“It’s just one more example of how northern Manhattan — which, yes, happens to be attached to the island — is still working on coming into its own,” said Mike Fitelson, executive director of the United Palace of Cultural Arts, a nonprofit group that brings cultural events, like Uptown Lit, to the United Palace.

Still Mr. Fitelson, who for nine years worked as a writer, photographer, editor and associate publisher for The Manhattan Times, northern Manhattan’s bilingual newspaper, said the area was fast claiming a stronger identity. Recent years have ushered in tapas bars and new restaurants, one of which offers a Dominican take on sushi: raw fish rolled with fried plantains. A local microbrewery, the Dyckman Beer Company, serves brews that, according to its Web site, reflect the “taste and spirit of Uptown, subtly infused with Dominican flavors.” And now there is Uptown Lit.

“The rest of the city is still catching up with what’s happening here,” Mr. Fitelson said. “It’s time for a new voice.”
446 2013-10-18 The second day of the fraud trial concerning New York City’s ill-fated payroll modernization project started much as it had on the first day: with the unusual scrutiny of a juror.

But a closer look was taken this time at not one, but two jurors in the CityTime payroll case — both outside the presence of their fellow jurors.

The first was an alternate juror, who had asked the judge to be released because of financial hardship; she said her employer would pay her for only two weeks. To her obvious dismay, the judge, George B. Daniels, of Federal District Court, told her that she would be staying put for now. (Lest there be any doubt about her reaction, a defense lawyer asked that the juror’s sobbing be noted in the transcript.)

Then it was Juror No. 5’s turn.

That juror, a partner at one of New York City’s elite law firms, had crossed paths on Tuesday night with a defendant in the case, Mark Mazer, as both appeared intent on getting into the same taxi. Mr. Mazer’s lawyer, Gerald L. Shargel, told the judge on Wednesday that the juror “gave him, as they say, the finger,” and asked that she be removed.

On Thursday, Mr. Shargel renewed his request to exclude her, telling Judge Daniels he feared that she would be prejudiced against his case if she learned of his earlier comments about her.
447 2013-10-18 Because Ms. Bryant was often unable to take out the dogs at night, the family trained them to use pads in Thaddeus’s bathroom.

During the day, Ms. Bryant said, she was uneasy about bringing Peanut out for walks because she was so small that she could be easily stepped on.

The family is getting their penthouse ready for sale, as they are planning to move to a farm in Tennessee when Mr. Bryant retires next year. “We love animals,” Ms. Bryant said, explaining that when real estate agents were showing the apartment, the dogs were often sent to Biscuits and Bath. Last weekend, Mr. Bryant was in London on business, so Ms. Bryant decided she and Thaddeus would visit her mother in Connecticut. The dogs would stay at the kennel on Saturday night.

Ms. Bryant said she regarded many of the workers at Biscuits and Bath as conscientious and caring. They could be counted on to give Peanut her medicines, including an Eastern herbal potion that she took for a collapsing trachea, which apparently is a common affliction of tiny dogs.

The Bryant dogs were dropped off on Saturday afternoon by the family baby sitter. Their stay cost $75 per dog for 24 hours, Ms. Bryant said.

At breakfast with friends on Sunday morning, she said, she got a call from a manager. “She said Peanut had stopped breathing and was in the emergency room and the I.C.U., and they were working on her,” Ms. Bryant said.

She loaded Thaddeus into the car. “I was driving like a madwoman back to the city,” she said.

Along the way, there were more phone calls, including one with the manager of Biscuits and Bath who told her to assume that Peanut was dead. Ms. Bryant said she and Thaddeus began to pray aloud.

The company said its management was not available to discuss Peanut.

It turns out that on Sunday morning, Sweetie and Peanut were being brought back to TriBeCa from the Biscuits and Bath place on West 13th Street, where they had spent the night. The dogs were leashed by “slip collars,” also known as choke collars, which tighten when the dog pulls. Then their leashes were hooked onto the walls of the van. Other dogs were picked up.

“Some of the other dogs were anxious and active in the back, and managed to get tangled with the patient,” according to a report from Fifth Avenue Veterinary Specialists. “When the driver turned around, he saw the patient hanging by his choke collar. The pet was noted to not be breathing. The driver said he attempted chest compressions and nose to mouth breathing.”

Fifth Avenue Veterinary has 21 vets, and all the major specialties; it appears that since the closing of St. Vincent’s Hospital in Greenwich Village, a poodle there could have more immediate care in a medical crisis than a person. Peanut was intubated and given medicine to try restarting her heart, but it was over before she got there.

At the hospital, Ms. Bryant said, the doctor tenderly brought her Peanut, choke collars still attached.

“People have said to me, ‘Why are you not pursuing a lawsuit?’ ” Ms. Bryant said. “I don’t believe in the negative energy of that. I don’t want any other dogs to go through what Peanut did.”

She is in the freezer, awaiting burial at the family’s home on Shelter Island.
448 2013-10-18 On Thursday, Secretary of State John Kerry reinforced that position when he said in an interview with NPR that a political solution would seek to “maintain the institutions of state.” At the same time, a Syrian government official said that long-delayed peace talks might finally be held in Geneva next month.

The shift in international sentiment has been particularly challenging for Mr. Erdogan, who continues to support the rebels but is concerned about security along the border as a flurry of Turks have crossed into Syria to join the ranks of the jihadists. At the same time, Turkey is struggling with cascading crises that have undermined its regional role, forcing it to look more inward.

At the height of the Arab Spring, Mr. Erdogan offered Turkey as a model of democracy and Islam for Egypt and other nations that had cast off dictators. But he has had to confront widespread demonstrations at home criticizing his authoritarian style, and abroad he has seen allies in Egypt ousted by the military.

The strikes by the Turkish Army this week, in response to a shell that landed inside Turkey without causing damage, seemed aimed at countering criticism that Turkey had fostered the growth of jihadist groups.

But they also seemed to underscore Turkey’s troubled Syria policy as it seeks to recalibrate its tactics, supporting yet targeting the rebels, all while calling for Mr. Assad to step down.

“They still feel that the only way to solve the crisis is to force Assad from power, and that the only way to do that is to funnel weapons to the opposition,” said Aaron Stein, an associate fellow at the Royal United Services Institute for Defense and Security Studies who writes on security issues in Turkey. “They only have buyer’s remorse because they depended on the Obama administration to come to the rescue.”

By now, Turkey had expected that the United States and its Western allies would have increased military support for the rebels. While the United States has provided some training and arms, Mr. Obama called off the missile strikes he had threatened in response to a chemical attack in August. Turkey was angered when the tide shifted from imminent military action to diplomacy, Mr. Stein said, because the chemical weapons pact suggests that Mr. Assad “will be around a long time to implement the deal.”

He added that Turkish leaders “felt they were hung out to dry” when the Obama administration shelved its plans for military action.

Turkey’s Syria policy is also deeply unpopular among the Turkish public and has become a domestic political challenge for Mr. Erdogan, who has been in power for more than a decade and is considering a campaign for the presidency next year. Nearly from the beginning of the Syrian uprising, Turkey has sought to shape its outcome by pushing Mr. Assad to liberalize the political process. But when the rebellion turned violent, Turkey opened its borders to Syrian refugees, whose ranks within Turkey have swelled to more than 500,000, earning the country praise from the international community but raising ethnic tensions in the border region.

In contrast to countries like Jordan, which has kept its border tightly controlled, Turkey initially allowed the free flow of fighters and weapons to support the opposition, which was dominated at first by moderate groups but eventually overtaken by more experienced, and more extreme, jihadist fighting groups.

“They weren’t necessarily arming Al Qaeda, but they just weren’t policing their borders,” Mr. Stein said.

Kadri Gursel, a political analyst here and a columnist for the newspaper Milliyet, said, “Turkey continues to deny any support for the Al Qaeda rebels, but the fact that so few precautions have been taken against them, and no obstacles have been put into place, is support in and of itself.”

Referring to the strikes on Islamist militant positions in Syria, Mr. Gursel said, “With this latest move, Turkey is trying to rebuild the image of its Syria policy and show that no security threats will be tolerated from anyone.”

More broadly, many analysts here see the failure of Turkey’s policy to result in a peaceful outcome in Syria as a rebuke to the efforts by Mr. Erdogan’s Islamist governing party — the Justice and Development Party, known by its Turkish initials, A.K.P. — to present Turkey as a pivotal player in shaping regional affairs. Particularly when seen alongside events in Egypt, where the military overthrew a Muslim Brotherhood-dominated government that had close ties to the A.K.P., many say the course the Syrian conflict has taken represents a severe blow to Turkey’s regional aspirations.

“It seems that Turkey’s influence in the region is not being viewed positively in the wake of the Syrian and Egyptian crises,” Fuat Keyman, a columnist, wrote this week. “The Turkish model is not being discussed anymore. And in the context of the Arab Spring and ongoing developments in the Middle East, that means Turkey risks losing its place and role in regional politics.”
449 2013-10-18 Everybody loves a character with absolute confidence, peerless skill and unshakable cool. The square-jawed gangster known as Boss (the undeniably appealing Akshay Kumar) is that kind of guy. He knows he can win any fight, and there are plenty for him in Anthony D’Souza’s “Boss” — in the marketplace, at the multiplex, in the desert. Between lethal kicks, as he easily dispatches 10 or 12 tough guys, Boss — whose agility is beyond Olympian — does a few dance steps and smiles. This is a man who prefers to fight to music, which is good, because sometimes that drowns out the sounds of all those necks being snapped.

There are matters worth caring about here, including a heartbreaking father-son rift and an older son’s touching loyalty to his little brother. There are Bollywood musical numbers, of course, with fabulously aggressive choreography and the usual over-the-top array of gorgeous scenery, pointless costume changes and dramatic, sexy poses. But mostly there are explosions, huge knives, broken glass and blood. Ten times, you think, this is the big finish. You wish it were.

“Boss” is billed as an action comedy, but it isn’t always clear what is part of the joke and what isn’t. Surely the soap-opera-melodramatic music cues are ironic. As are lines like the accusation an older father makes to a shamelessly corrupt policeman: “You’re misusing your power and position.” The young moviegoers sitting behind me laughed loudest when Boss’s frail father reacted to learning the truth about a long-ago tragedy. The old man had a stroke. Wow, funny.
450 2013-10-18 Soon the ransom calls started. They were made over a portable satellite telephone, not equipment to which most Afghans have access. They were short as well, less than a minute to evade tracking, and featured the voice of Dr. Barak’s son — but not live. Instead, the callers played a recording of his voice.

“He was screaming that they were going to kill him,” Dr. Barak said. “They wanted $2 million. I only had $6,000 in all.” The boy was said to be held in a basement, chained to furniture.

Dr. Barak is not a particularly rich man, except by Afghan standards. He makes $2,000 a month as a hospital director and surgeon at Bost Hospital in Lashkar Gah; his wife is also a doctor there. He owns some shop buildings in Lashkar Gah, and a house in Kabul.

He borrowed money from friends, colleagues, other doctors. He tried to sell his properties, but the market was too low to make it worth it. Instead, he borrowed from money changers, at loan-shark interest rates, and he managed to negotiate with the kidnappers to settle for a $500,000 ransom, he said.

One day, investigating officers from the National Directorate of Security, the Afghan intelligence service, said they had gotten a tip that the kidnappers were hiding in a house just down the street from an N.D.S. post.

Agents raided the house, taking along an Afghan National Police commander, Samir Samiullah. The raid was a failure; no one was in the house. Dr. Barak would later learn that the kidnappers had been tipped off and spirited his son out of the house before the raid, disguised in a woman’s burqa to avoid detection.

Dr. Barak paid the ransom, but agents tracked the kidnappers from the pickup point and later arrested nine confederates. Three of them were policemen — including the Afghan National Police commander, Mr. Samiullah.

In an interview, the Helmand governor, Mohammad Naim Baluch, confirmed the details of the kidnapping and arrests as related by Dr. Barak.

At least his son was safe — allowed to take his exams late, then sent to live with relatives in Kabul.

Then came another blow: The authorities said they found $175,000 of the ransom money — seemingly good news, but months later, Dr. Barak is still trying in vain to get it back from the N.D.S. That the kidnappers all confessed and are in prison still has not helped.

“They’re all thieves,” Dr. Barak said. “Maybe they’re keeping the money for themselves. They said they were waiting for the court to decide, but what’s to decide? They all confessed.”

Mr. Baluch insisted that was not going to happen. “As soon as they determine the money belongs to Dr. Barak, they will give it to him,” he said. “No one would dare to put that money into his pocket.”

The doctor said he had decided to sell his property to repay creditors who helped him raise the ransom. He is worried about one money-changer, who charged him 5 percent monthly interest on a $100,000 loan, with the rate doubling each month. It is already at 20 percent. “For 20 years I’ve worked here — my wife and I, we never left,” he said. “And now we’re just being tortured.”
451 2013-10-18 Is that political commentary lurking beneath the grunts and four-word sentences of Arnold Schwarzenegger and Sylvester Stallone?

“Escape Plan,” an enjoyable enough version of the action movies these stars have been feeding off lately, puts the two of them in a supermaximum-security prison where assorted terrorists and other extremely undesirables are housed. It’s an off-the-grid detention center, privately run, and the administrators think nothing of inflicting abuses of all sorts. This film is not likely to be shown on movie night at Guantánamo.

Mr. Stallone’s character makes a living by going undercover as an inmate and trying to break out, to identify the weaknesses in the prison security system. He is hired for a black-ops assignment that quickly turns sinister. Mr. Schwarzenegger is the inmate he teams with to try to escape.

Jim Caviezel oversees the prison with ruthless efficiency, except for when he needs to be stupid for the escape plan to work. Mikael Hafstrom, the director, pushes the suspense buttons efficiently, and the plot twists are disguised well enough for the not-very-demanding crowd this film will draw. The scenes with Mr. Stallone and Mr. Schwarzenegger are a little disappointing — it’s their first pairing as top-billed co-stars, yet the script never gives them the kind of memorable exchange that makes fans howl with delight. But all in all, “Escape Plan” does what it sets out to do.

“Escape Plan” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian) because prison is a violent, bloody, foulmouthed place.
452 2013-10-18 Verizon Communications reported stronger-than-expected third-quarter results on Thursday, driven by wireless growth. Its profit rose 40 percent.

While wireless customer growth was slightly below Wall Street estimates, the company’s Verizon Wireless venture with the Vodafone Group still showed solid profit and increasing revenue as customers spent more on data services. Verizon has agreed to buy out Vodafone’s 45 percent share of the venture for $130 billion.

The subscriber shortfall raised some concern that the company, the first American telephone operator to report this quarter, was losing market share to rivals like T-Mobile US.

Jonathan Chaplin, an analyst at New Street Research, said that while Verizon’s financials were “outstanding,” “there were clear signs that a resurgent TMUS is impacting even Verizon.”

Verizon’s chief financial officer, Francis J. Shammo, attributed the subscriber shortfall to a shortage of Apple’s new iPhone 5S. About one-half of the Verizon Wireless smartphone activations were iPhones, representing roughly 3.9 million iPhone activations.

“The shortage on the 5S was a significant issue for the quarter,” Mr. Shammo told Reuters.

Verizon Wireless added 927,000 net retail subscribers in the quarter, compared with Wall Street expectations of about one million customers.
453 2013-10-18 Mr. de Blasio has already mentioned Mr. Bratton as someone he would consider for the post, and his staff acknowledged that the pair had met several times since 2012 to discuss policing. But Mr. de Blasio has also mentioned Philip Banks III, the Police Department’s top chief, and public safety experts said the field of potential candidates was far larger.

Indeed, the next mayor has a wide array of candidates to replace Mr. Kelly, the longest-serving commissioner in the city’s history. He may look outside the Police Department — to former New York policing luminaries in Chicago or at the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey — or choose from among its current crop of top officials, which includes a high-ranking female chief and a Hispanic first deputy commissioner.

“For a change-oriented mayor, there’s a benefit to bringing in somebody from the outside,” said Jeremy Travis, the president of John Jay College of Criminal Justice, who has discussed policing policy with Mr. de Blasio. “The next police commissioner faces two equally compelling imperatives: first to continue to bring crime down, and second to help the city navigate its way out of the current conundrum about the stop-and-frisk tactics.”

Mr. Bratton, who has been increasingly visible and quotable in recent months, helped turn around the troubled Los Angeles Police Department, where he showed he could repair relations between minority communities and a police force once synonymous with brutality and corruption. That track record clearly resonates with Mr. de Blasio, the city’s public advocate, whose campaign speeches have focused on the toll that, he says, the stop-and-frisk tactics have taken on New York’s minorities. (He often also includes criticism of former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who appointed Mr. Bratton.)

For his part, Mr. Bratton, who returned to New York City in recent years, has not been coy about wanting his old job back. “Apart from being an optimist, I guess I’m a glutton for punishment,” he told reporters earlier this month.

The other man Mr. de Blasio has made a point of mentioning is Mr. Banks, whom Commissioner Kelly appointed to the department’s highest-ranking uniformed position in March. Mr. Banks has kept a relatively low profile; since becoming the department’s top chief, his most well-known policy initiative has been to focus on cleaning up the appearance of police officers with stern reminders about the dress code.

Mr. Banks, who is black, could provide a symbolic change at the helm of the Police Department as its practices in minority neighborhoods come under greater scrutiny with a court-appointed federal monitor.

Before his promotion, he was the chief of the Community Affairs Bureau, sometimes considered a backwater within the department but perhaps not by Mr. de Blasio. His campaign has vowed to “select a police commissioner with demonstrable successes in driving down crime and the ability to mend police-community relations” — a description that could fit Mr. Banks, but also Mr. Bratton.

Mr. de Blasio has held several meetings with Mr. Bratton, but it was not clear if the subject of commissioner was broached. A spokesman for Mr. de Blasio could not say whether he had met with other law enforcement leaders being considered.

In policing circles, several other names have been bandied about.

Joseph P. Dunne, the leader of the Port Authority Police Department and a former top official in the New York Police Department, is frequently mentioned by experts, who said he could command the respect of fellow officers and had a record of building relations in communities racked by crime.

Mr. Dunne was the runner-up for commissioner in 2000 after Mr. Giuliani chose Bernard B. Kerik, a close ally. (Mr. Kerik later served time in prison on corruption charges.) The choice divided Giuliani advisers, including Mr. Lhota, then a deputy mayor, who supported Mr. Kerik.

Mr. Lhota’s campaign said that if Commissioner Kelly did not want to stay on in a Lhota administration, he would be asked to lead the search for a replacement.

Mr. de Blasio’s camp has also expressed interest in meeting a former deputy commissioner in the Police Department, Patrick Timlin, who is now an executive at a security firm, a person familiar with the conversations said. During the Giuliani years, Mr. Timlin rose to command patrol forces in the Bronx and, after retiring, returned to the Police Department as a deputy commissioner for two years.

Among the dark-horse candidates are two current Police Department officials: First Deputy Commissioner Rafael Pineiro, who finds support among the department’s growing Hispanic ranks, and Joanne Jaffe, chief of the Housing Bureau.

If the next mayor were to look outside of New York City and beyond Mr. Bratton, he would most likely consider Garry F. McCarthy, who currently leads the Chicago Police Department. Mr. McCarthy previously commanded the Newark police and was in charge of the New York Police Department’s CompStat program, which uses block-by-block crime statistics to measure police performance.

No matter who is selected, the next mayor and his police commissioner will face new challenges to hold down crime, which reached historic lows under Mr. Kelly, while at the same time reshaping policing practices to comply with a federal court decision on the stop-and-frisk program — all under the eye of a new independent inspector general.

“What is unprecedented in New York is that you have any oversight,” said Richard M. Aborn, the president of the Citizens Crime Commission of New York City. “Now you have two forms of external oversight.”

That extra scrutiny will most likely complicate the job of leading the Police Department.

“What we had to face was an enormously difficult situation with where we were with crime,” said David N. Dinkins, the former mayor who first appointed Mr. Kelly as police commissioner in 1992. “But stop-and-frisk is of great concern to everybody. It makes it, I would think, a more difficult job for this next mayor.”
454 2013-10-18 HOUSTON — In the sharpest challenge yet to the surge in flaring of natural gas in the Bakken shale oil field, North Dakota mineral owners this week filed 10 class-action lawsuits seeking millions of dollars in lost royalties from some of the nation’s largest oil companies.

Roughly 1,500 fires burn above western North Dakota because of the deliberate burning of natural gas by companies rushing to drill for oil without having sufficient pipelines to transport their production. With cheap gas bubbling to the top with expensive oil, the companies do not have an economic incentive to build the necessary gas pipelines, so they flare the excess gas instead.

Flaring is environmentally less harmful than releasing raw natural gas into the atmosphere, but the flared gas still spews climate-warming carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. The quantities of gas burned are so large that the fires rising above wheat and sunflower fields look like a small city in NASA photographs taken from satellites.

Flared gas has nearly tripled in the last two years in North Dakota, with almost 30 percent of the output in the state burned at wells, producing emissions equivalent to more than two medium-size coal-fired power plants.

The value of flared gas in the state is roughly $100 million a month, leading property owners who lease their lands to the oil companies to believe they are losing money even though they are earning increasing royalties from the fast expansion of oil production in North Dakota. Oil output has risen by 100,000 barrels a day since May alone.
455 2013-10-18 Google impressed investors, but people’s changing behavior on mobile phones and even on desktops threatens the company’s main business....
456 2013-10-18 In Boston, tourists once again spilled into the Charlestown Navy Yard, the national historic park that contains the Constitution, the world’s oldest commissioned warship afloat. Among them was Dorothy Bank, a retired kindergarten teacher from North Carolina, who was just about to leave Boston for a foliage tour in New England.

“I was hoping it would be open; we didn’t know whether it would be in time,” she said, noting the uncertainty of the legislative fight in Washington. Of the ship, she said, “I like it as a part of history.”

In New York City, office workers poured in and out of the mammoth building at 26 Federal Plaza in Lower Manhattan, eager to start working — and be paid — again. “Put yourself in that situation,” said Regina Napoli, 60, a legal administrator who had been furloughed from her job with the Social Security Administration. “The bills pile up.”

Washington’s Metro trains were once again packed with federal workers streaming in from suburban Maryland and Virginia, government IDs dangling from lanyards around their necks. Robert Lagana said Thursday morning that he was eager to get back to his job at the International Trade Commission.

“It beats climbing the walls, wondering where your next paycheck is going to be and how you’re going to make your bills,” Mr. Lagana said. “They really need to come up with a law where this never happens again.”

Meanwhile, those arriving at the Environmental Protection Agency headquarters in Washington were met by none other than Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., being boisterous, as usual. “I brought some muffins!” Mr. Biden said as he arrived at the security desk, greeting employees with handshakes and hugs.

And at the White House, President Obama took a moment to speak directly to federal workers, saying: “Thanks for your service. Welcome back. What you do is important. It matters.”

The government’s top personnel officer announced just before 1 a.m. Thursday that officials should restart normal functions “in a prompt and orderly manner.” Those few words were enough to kick-start the government. A memorandum from officials at the Department of the Interior encouraged returning workers to check their e-mail and voice mail, fill out their timecards and “check on any refrigerators and throw out any perished food.”

But not everything was back to normal immediately. In Chicago, people who had been waiting to visit the Internal Revenue Service office since the shutdown began were still turned away by security. “If you aren’t making a payment, they won’t see you,” said an officer in the lobby, who suggested they try again on Friday.

Cynthia Ellis, a South Side resident, needed to get federal tax documents for a state program that helps pay her mortgage. “I heard the news say all government employees are back to work,” she said, clearly frustrated. “This is bad. This is really bad.”

The agreement extending federal borrowing power, hammered out at the last moment in Washington, paves the way for another series of budget negotiations. Conservative Republicans in the House and Senate vowed to renew their fight for cuts in spending and changes to the Affordable Care Act.

Across the globe, investors shrugged at the decision by United States politicians to end the shutdown. On Wall Street, stocks were mixed in part on reports of disappointing earnings from I.B.M.

At the Capitol, lawmakers immediately began post-shutdown posturing as they braced for another confrontation in the budget negotiations that are set to begin in the days and weeks ahead.

“We’ve got to assure the American people that we are not going to do this again,” Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, said Thursday on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe.”

For some people across the country, the political debate remained raw. In Oak Ridge, Tenn., where the shutdown was set to furlough about 3,600 employees at the Y-12 National Security Complex, Dean Russell said he had no plans to do away with the sign he posted at the entrance of his restaurant: “Members of Congress not welcome here.”

Even in deeply conservative Tennessee, Mr. Russell said his edict applied to both parties, who are now barred from the restaurant’s selection of apple, chocolate and coconut fried pies.

“I’m sure the anger will pass, and I’ll take it down,” Mr. Russell said. “But we’ll keep the sign because I’m sure they’ll do something again.”

But others were just happy that the shutdown was over.

At the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area, north of Los Angeles, Bonnie Clarfield, a supervisory park ranger, spent Thursday morning taking down the closed signs — 16 of them in all — and cleaning up after vandals who had ripped some of them down and in some cases posted signs of their own.

She found one handwritten sign that read, “Congress Can’t Shut Down the Park,” while some official park signs announcing the closing were strewn in the bushes.

“We had a lot of vandalism of infrastructure,” she said. “People were frustrated, and they were taking it out on the rangers. We were doing our jobs, and they were taking it out on the messengers. I feel great today. No one’s been mad at me.”

Federal officials said the lingering impact of the shutdown should begin to dissipate in the coming days as agencies reopen fully and begin taking stock.

Sean Hennessey, a spokesman for the National Park Service, said 85 furloughed employees were back to work in Boston. He estimated that the city’s national historical sites, which include the navy yard, the Bunker Hill Monument and the downtown Faneuil Hall visitor center, lost about 55,000 visitors because of the shutdown.

The U.S.S. Constitution Museum alone, he said, lost an estimated $7,000 per day.
457 2013-10-18 So I couldn’t help it when, a few moments later, I said “Stop the car, please.”

I grabbed one of our emergency response bags from my trunk and walked back. I tried to concentrate on the types of injuries the driver might have rather than how unsafe it was walking on that stretch of road, particularly in the evening. Was he bleeding? Was he conscious?

The crash scene had quickly attracted some of the people who typically gather around accidents in Nigeria. Bystanders were pulling the driver out of the car. Before long they were joined by a barefoot “prophet” in a white robe. No Nigerian accident scene is complete without a prophet who commands everyone to stand by while he loudly predicts that the patient will stop bleeding. The patient is often drained of blood by the time the prophecy is complete.

Sadly, these prophets are the best hope that many Nigerians have. Trauma has become a silent epidemic in Africa, an epidemic that will only spread as the economy grows. More and more Africans are buying cars and working in heavy and dangerous industries. At the same time, infrastructure is poor, safety laws lax, and cars badly maintained.

Sub-Saharan Africa has the world’s smallest number of motorized vehicles but the highest rate of road traffic fatalities, with Nigeria and South Africa leading the pack.

The World Bank predicts that in the next two years, road accidents could be the biggest killer of African children between 5 and 15. By 2030, according to the Global Burden of Disease study, road accidents will be the fifth leading cause of death in the developing world, ahead of malaria, tuberculosis and H.I.V.

If you add to these numbers the injuries caused by violent crime and communal conflict, then you have all the ingredients for a public health emergency.

And yet, trauma receives only a tiny fraction of the attention and money given to these three infectious diseases. Every health care conference I attend focuses on vaccines, treatment and training to combat the infamous “triple epidemic.”

Over the last decade, billions of dollars have poured into Africa with the laudable aim of defeating these killer diseases. But that most basic killer, injury, remains neglected.

Part of the problem is that the solutions are so complex. It’s easy to quantify interventions like the number of AIDS-fighting anti-retrovirals or mosquito nets distributed. Pills can be counted, flown in on cargo planes and delivered to large numbers of people in a short time period. But a pill would do very little for someone on a rural road in Nigeria with a head injury and a collapsed lung.

We need to put in place systems to provide lifesaving care for accident victims. They need to be moved to a fully equipped hospital — one with X-ray machines, CT scanners, a burn unit — within the space of 45 minutes. We need at least 10 of these proper hospitals. We need to improve our roads, and we need a high-quality ambulance system to drive on them. And we need paramedic schools — like the one my company is helping to open, the first of its kind in Nigeria.

Some countries in other parts of the world have come up with proactive solutions. In Israel, a group called United Hatzalah helps volunteer emergency workers get quickly to accident sites, by “ambucycle” or on foot, if necessary. But Africa’s challenge will require an African response — and international support.

On the road that night, I quickly assessed that the young man needed urgent medical attention. I gave him oxygen and inserted a makeshift airway. I noted that he probably had internal bleeding and did my best to stem whatever external bleeding I could detect.

A passing taxi then transported him to the nearest hospital. He had a fighting chance. But too many injured Nigerians, forgotten on the side of the road, do not. It’s time the global public-health community paid attention to Africa’s urgent need for emergency medical care.

Ola Orekunrin is a trauma doctor and the managing director of Flying Doctors Nigeria, an air ambulance service.
458 2013-10-18 Peppers that taste great filled or unfilled....
459 2013-10-19 LIGHTER--Jeremiah B.,born Philadelphia, March 23, 1921, son of Julius and Sema Tabachnick Lighter, passed away peacefully on October 10, 2013 in Manhattan. A gifted artist, he signed his art "Lighter" or "Umy", an affectionate family name. His car...
460 2013-10-19 Readers comment on my column suggesting that poultry are smarter and more sophisticated than we give them credit for....
461 2013-10-19 The penalty would cap weeks of heated negotiating and underscore the extent of JPMorgan Chase’s legal woes, people briefed on the talks said....
462 2013-10-19 Part 4: The chefs reflect on food culture’s tendency to value faddishness over fundamentals.
463 2013-10-19 A French wild card, Benoît Paire, beat second-seeded Milos Raonic, 7-6 (3), 6-3, to reach the Stockholm Open semifinals. Top-seeded David Ferrer advanced when his quarterfinal opponent, Fernando Verdasco, pulled out because of an abdominal injury.

■ Top-ranked Rafael Nadal pulled out of next week’s Swiss Indoors, citing fatigue.
464 2013-10-19 SUH FINE CONFIRMED The league confirmed a $31,500 fine handed to Detroit Lions defensive tackle Ndamukong Suh for his hit last Sunday on Cleveland Browns quarterback Brandon Weeden. Suh was not penalized for the hit in the game.

Since Detroit selected Suh with the No. 2 pick in 2010, he has been fined seven times for more than $200,000.

Suh was fined $100,000 for an illegal block on Minnesota center John Sullivan in Week 1 during an interception return. Suh lost an appeal last week, upholding the largest fine in N.F.L. history for on-field conduct, not counting suspensions.

WARE MAY FACE EAGLES Dallas Cowboys defensive end DeMarcus Ware began this week believing he would miss a game for the first time in his eight-year career. Now Ware is saying he may try to play Sunday in Philadelphia, despite being listed as doubtful after not practicing all week with a strained right quadriceps muscle.

Ware also found out that a fellow 2005 draft pick, Jay Ratliff, would not play again for the Cowboys. Ratliff was released.

Ware and Ratliff came from opposite ends of the draft eight years ago — Ware was the 11th overall pick, Ratliff the 224th selection in the seventh round. They became partners on the Dallas defensive front and went to four straight Pro Bowls together from 2008 to 2011.

Ratliff had been eligible to be activated after six weeks on the physically unable to perform list.

LOCKER LOOKING BETTER Tennessee quarterback Jake Locker has passed his practice test, doing what the Titans wanted all week — increasing his work each day. Now the decision on who starts against San Francisco on Sunday rests with coaches, trainers and Locker himself.

“We haven’t decided yet; we’re not really leaning any way,” Coach Mike Munchak said Friday after practice. The choice is between Locker and Ryan Fitzpatrick. Locker will have a big say in the discussions, and Munchak said they needed to finish some talks.

“We really want to get a feel for what he feels he can do well and what his limitations may or may not be,” Munchak said.

Locker sprained his right hip and knee Sept. 29 in a win over the Jets and has missed two games.

JURY CHOSEN IN TAYLOR CASE Jury selection has been completed in Miami for the first-degree murder trial of the man accused of pulling the trigger in the 2007 killing of Washington Redskins safety Sean Taylor.

Opening statements are set to begin Monday. On trial is 23-year-old Eric Rivera Jr., who faces life in prison if convicted. Because he was only 17 when Taylor was killed, Rivera would not be eligible for the death penalty.

Prosecutors say Taylor was shot during a botched robbery at his home. They say Rivera and four others from the Fort Myers area thought Taylor would be playing a Redskins game, but he was home with an injury.

One of the others has pleaded guilty to second-degree murder and burglary charges. The others face trial later.
465 2013-10-19 Fordham’s renaissance this year, which includes a victory against Temple, its first over an F.B.S. opponent since 1954, did not come without sacrifices.

This season, the Rams are not even assured of a berth in the F.C.S. playoffs. In 2010, Fordham awarded football scholarships for the first time since 1954; players had previously been assisted with need-based scholarships. Initially, the Patriot League, which did not allow its football members to offer athletic scholarships at the time, ruled Fordham ineligible for postseason individual awards and the automatic playoff bid awarded to the conference champion.

Although the decision to switch to football scholarships led to adverse consequences within Fordham’s conference, the move had the potential to transform the program on a national scale and enable it to eventually compete with F.C.S. powers like North Dakota State, which has won back-to-back national titles.

The Rams are now able to recruit from a wider pool of athletes and schedule games against F.B.S. opponents — matchups that are occasionally broadcast nationally and can often pay hundreds of thousands of dollars to F.C.S. teams willing to travel.

Fordham Coach Joe Moorhead said that in the past, if recruits were not eligible for need-based aid and did not have the wherewithal to pay full tuition out-of-pocket, “99 percent of the time” they would instead choose programs that could offer full scholarships. This school year, Fordham’s estimated tuition charges are $42,845 for full-time students.

Carlton Koonce, a senior running back who transferred from Hofstra, said the full athletic scholarship was a key factor in his choosing Fordham. Koonce, a communications major who hopes to work in New York after graduation, said the appeal of football scholarships combined with Fordham’s academic prestige and its proximity to Manhattan made the university one of the most appealing programs at the F.C.S. level.

“I met a lot of great alums through the football program, a lot of my connections are in the New York City area,” Koonce said. “Why not set myself up years down the road and play for a good program, too?”

Eventually, the Patriot League followed suit and in 2012 announced that all of its members could offer football scholarships. Fordham would remain ineligible for the 2013 conference title, but its players did regain the opportunity to be selected for postseason conference awards. (They can still make the playoffs this year by gaining an at-large bid.)

Before coming to Fordham, Roach was the athletic director at Colgate and presided over the Patriot League committee that negotiated the agreement to allow Fordham to remain an associate member of the conference. Roach said that it had been “just a matter of time” before a team stepped forward and began offering scholarships and that the move had been “terrific” for Fordham and the Patriot League.

Craig Haley, F.C.S. executive director for the Sports Network, which publishes one of the two major polls for F.C.S. football, said Fordham was “ahead of the curve” when it added football scholarships. Haley said Fordham was in a perfect situation as an F.C.S. university, given its academic reputation and improving football program.

Andres Correal, a Fordham alumnus who is the moderator of the online forum Fordhamfans, said he was content with the program’s goals as an F.C.S. team. “I think we’d be getting into a dangerous monetary decision if we tried to go F.B.S.,” he said.

Correal, who attended last weekend’s game at Georgetown, where, he estimated, more than half of those in the announced crowd of 1,831 were Fordham fans who traveled to Washington, said Rams supporters were just acclimating themselves to having a successful football team again.

“Nobody expected this level of success,” he said. “As fans, we’re all ecstatic right now. Given as many down years as we had, many fans are almost hesitant to believe it’s truly happening.”

Players and fans attribute much of the turnaround to Moorhead, a former Connecticut assistant. Fordham took a gamble in hiring him; he played quarterback at Fordham from 1993 to 1995 but had no previous head coaching experience and was inheriting a team that had finished 1-10 in 2011.

Moorhead has shown the ability to recruit talented transfers, including quarterback Michael Nebrich and receiver Tebucky Jones Jr., who both played under him when he was at UConn. Jones is second in the Patriot League with 50 receptions, and Nebrich leads the conference with 190 pass completions. In Fordham’s come-from-behind 30-29 victory at Temple on Sept. 14, Jones had 109 yards receiving, and Nebrich threw the winning touchdown pass.

The win garnered national attention and captivated the campus community. A representative for Barnes & Noble, which runs the campus bookstore, said Fordham merchandise sales were up 29 percent compared with this time last year. The Rams’ next home game after the Temple victory, against Columbia, was played before a sellout crowd. Two weeks later, a standing-room-only crowd watched Fordham host Lehigh in a game that was broadcast nationally on CBS Sports Network. Big-time football had returned to Fordham.

“I was really taken aback at times,” Moorhead said of the Lehigh game. “There were points during the game when I caught myself kind of turning around and just doing like a panoramic scan of the stands. I’m looking across and seeing people sitting in the baseball stands, and it’s like, ‘Wow, we didn’t have this when I was here!’ ”
466 2013-10-19 The day the theft was reported, Mr. Brock’s e-mail and Twitter feed pinged constantly with chatter and speculation about who might have been responsible. He has a theory of his own: “I’m pretty sure it was George Clooney and the boys from ‘Ocean’s 11.’ “

The sheriff said the theft occurred from a locked area in one of the 13 warehouses at the Buffalo Trace Distillery in Frankfort, which makes the Van Winkle brand in partnership with the original family owners. He suspects the thief or thieves smuggled it out a case or two at a time. “I don’t think anyone could walk out with 74 cases of bourbon,” he said, citing security at the 119-acre distillery.

Workers at the distillery, where a water tower presides over century-old brick buildings blackened by hot Kentucky summers, did not want to discuss the matter as they came off their shift on Thursday.

“It’s the talk of the town,” is all one bottling line worker would say, declining to give his name.

Carey Graham, who instructs tourists he takes through the Blanton Bottling Hall to inhale the aroma of the product he calls “hooch,” said visitors always ask to buy Pappy at the gift shop. “I say, ‘You might as well go chase your tail.’ ”

Even the chief executive of Buffalo Trace, Mark Brown, is out of luck. “I was in a steakhouse in Louisville Monday night which had three bottles of the 23-year-old locked in a display cabinet,” he said. “I had guests who were dying to try it, but they wouldn’t sell me any. They said, ‘No, this is just part of our stash.’ ”

Unlike most Kentucky bourbon that is made from corn, rye and malted barley, Van Winkle substitutes wheat for rye. The taste is softer and milder and allows for longer aging, connoisseurs say. The Van Winkle brand includes bourbons aged 10, 12, 15, 20 and 23 years, with the younger ones more moderately priced: Old Rip Van Winkle 10 Year sells for about $39 in stores.

But it is the 20-year-old Pappy that has a cult following like a 99-point California cabernet. “The nose is intensely fruited but also bears a tantalizing citrus zest note,” according to Wine Enthusiast magazine. “The body is huge and almost chewable and the palate is tremendously buttery with some sherry notes, a dash of dried fruits and some rich, creamy vanilla. The finish is long and elegant.”

If bourbon was once a mass-market drink, a humble Southern favorite that provided the kick in Manhattans and mint juleps on Kentucky Derby Day, artisanal small-batch bourbons have caught fire as urban drinkers pushed past Scotch and hip locavores sought out high-quality products.

Bourbon sales by distillers exceeded $2.2 billion last year, up from $1.3 billion in 2003, a boom driven by high-end brands, according to the Distilled Spirits Council. Foreign sales have also been on a tear as drinkers in Europe and Asia discover the quintessential American whiskey.

“We opened our first bourbon bar 13 years ago,” said Mr. Thomas, who in addition to a restaurant owns two bars named Bourbon in Washington. “I would never have thought I’d sell a bourbon for $75.”

“Pappy” is named for Julian P. Van Winkle Sr., whose roots in the bourbon business date to the late 1800s. He made the brands Old Fitzgerald and Rebel Yell. In 2002, the third and fourth generations of the Van Winkle family formed a partnership with Buffalo Trace, a sprawling operation on the Kentucky River where whiskey has been made for more than 200 years. It was the first to commercially market a single-barrel bourbon — one not blended from different batches — in 1984 when it introduced Blanton’s.

J. Preston Van Winkle, the fourth generation in the business, said that he and his father, Julian Van Winkle III, are raising production because of the demand, but that it takes time. “You can’t make 20-year bourbon in less than 20 years,” he said.

There are other super-premium bourbons, some costing more than Pappy Van Winkle. But none, bar owners and retailers say, have the same cachet.

“It’s definitely the No. 1 whiskey people request,” said John Wiseman, an owner of the Whiskey Shop in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, who counts himself lucky to be allocated a few bottles at a time from his distributor. They sell out instantly. Two weeks ago, Mr. Wiseman was contacted by an executive assistant who had called shops as far away as Europe trying to buy some for her boss’s birthday.

“She was pleading with us to get a bottle of Pappy 23,” Mr. Wiseman said. “I was like, I would love to help you, but I don’t have any.”
467 2013-10-19 Pictures From the Week in Business
468 2013-10-19 The price drop has brought anxiety to lobstermen in both countries. “I love what I do for a living. Every trap is like opening a Christmas present; I can’t wait to see the next one,” Steve Train, a lobsterman for 35 years who lives on Long Island, Me., said by telephone while eating a lobster sandwich for dinner. “I think we can survive this, but after two years in a row of it, you get a little nervous.”

“There’s a real injustice here,” said Michael McGeoghegan, also a lobsterman for 35 years, president of the Prince Edward Island Fishermen’s Association and the father of Charles. “If the consumer wasn’t paying the big dollars, I’d say: it’s O.K., it’s fair. One billion dollars changes hands in the Atlantic Canada lobster fishery and somebody’s getting the money.”

Each side thinks it is the other. Depending on who is counting, 50 to 70 percent of Maine’s lobsters end up in Canadian processing plants. Geoff Irvine, the executive director of the Lobster Council of Canada, said that while a majority of Canadian lobstermen probably want a ban on imports from Maine, Canadian plants are economically viable only if they receive American lobsters when the Canadian fishermen are idle.

He said that Canadians should also remember that the United States buys about three-quarters of Canada’s harvest. “We’ve got a lot of eggs in the American basket,” Mr. Irvine said. “We don’t have any intention of getting into a fight with the Americans.”

Too late for that. Across the border in the United States, Gov. Paul R. LePage of Maine is bothered by trade rules that transform Maine lobster into Canadian lobster once it is processed in Canada. He claims that the processing industry in Canada is heavily subsidized. Governor LePage has pushed for Maine to become self-sufficient in processing within three years, an objective most in the industry believe is unattainable.

While it would like more local processing, the Maine Lobstermen’s Association is looking for a compromise that would see those Canadian lobsters labeled: “Harvested in Maine, Processed in Canada.”

That’s an idea that many Canadian lobstermen support, although not for reasons that will restore cross-border harmony. Charles McGeoghegan, who is also a member of Prince Edward Island’s provincial assembly, said that the current system means that “lower quality” Maine lobster is being sold as a Canadian product.

Fighting words, indeed, but the fishermen on each side of the border look for very different crustaceans. Fishermen from Maine, who bring in the overwhelming majority of the American catch, largely harvest recently molted, soft-shell lobsters in a season that is concentrated in July and August. Throughout their lifetimes, lobsters will molt and regrow their shells about 30 times, assuming they’re not trapped before then.

Before and after Maine’s summer season, it’s time for the Canadian hard-shell lobster. Canadian fishermen trap the live lobsters that most of the world, including Americans, buy.

Unsurprisingly, the merits of hard-shell and soft-shell lobsters are almost a matter of religious dogma. It requires no prompting for almost anyone in the Maine fishery to say that meat of soft-shell lobsters is, as Patrice McCarron, executive director of the Maine Lobstermen’s Association, puts it, “incredibly fresh and tender.” Hard-shell lobsters, which sometimes are stored live in tanks filled with frigid water for months, have “a little more of a metallic taste.”

More fighting words. Charles McGeoghegan said he was confident that Maine lobsters would fail any comparative taste test. If they are more tender, he added, “it’s because they’re mainly filled with water.” Robert C. Bayer, the executive director of the University of Maine Lobster Institute, which works with fishermen and officials on both sides of the border, diplomatically said that he was not aware of any scientific flavor comparisons.

But Ms. McCarron acknowledged that soft-shell lobster has a significant shortcoming, aside from its relatively short harvesting season. They are so delicate, she said, that ideally they need to be handled “like an egg.” That leaves traditionally large export markets for live lobsters, particularly Europe at Christmas, controlled by Canada’s four Atlantic provinces.

Canada dominates the lobster processing business, with products ranging from fresh meat to a variety of canned and frozen offerings. Innovations intended to increase sales include something called “Popsicle packs”: small lobsters that would normally supply meat for canning are instead cooked whole, then dropped into plastic bags with brine and flash frozen. Sold mainly in France, the product seems to be a source of embarrassment to the Canadian industry as fishermen and even lobster marketers acknowledge that the small size of the lobsters and the packing method make them less than ideal for a classy meal.

While European importers still bring over chartered cargo planeloads of live lobsters from Canada, the Continent’s economic crisis has reduced their numbers. Lobstermen in the United States and Canada hope that Asia will ultimately be the industry’s answer. But expanding that market requires convincing Asians that Atlantic lobsters are better than the clawless lobster species they have traditionally eaten.

The industry’s ability to expand the live lobster market appears limited. While there is no firm data, several people in the industry said that they believed that retailers in the United States were gradually phasing out live lobster tanks in their stores. Not only are consumers looking for more convenient — that is, dead — forms of lobster, but even with lobsters still going for upward of $15 a pound at some stores, they were historically a loss leader for supermarkets.

Whatever resentments they harbor, Canadian and American lobstermen are firmly united on one point. It rankles them that the low prices they are now getting have not been followed by similar declines in retail prices.

The problem with prices is there are just too many lobsters and there have been for the last five years, Dr. Bayer and others have noted. Warmer oceans and the overfishing of cod that prey on lobsters have allowed more of them to abundantly reproduce. “I think we’re going to see this situation for a while,” Dr. Bayer said. “I don’t know how long, and I don’t think anyone really does.”
469 2013-10-19 According to varying reports, the general was killed either by a sniper’s bullet or in an explosion during an ambush. His death helped rebels recapture some optimism after the fading of their hopes for American military intervention and the eruption of infighting with jihadist groups.

“He is a regime symbol,” said Ragheb Bashir Tomeh, a member of the rebel Supreme Military Council.

Still, some rebel fighters, along with a number of anti-Assad Lebanese politicians, said they regretted that General Jamea had not been captured so he could be interrogated and tried.

Footage in the pro-government news media showed mourners following a rose-wreathed ambulance on Friday to General Jamea’s funeral in his home village of Jableh, in the coastal mountains of Latakia Province, where support for Mr. Assad is strong. Far to the east, rebel fighters and residents of Deir al-Zour Province, where entire blocks of buildings in the provincial capital have been destroyed, said the announcement had led people to cheer.

“Joy filled the streets,” said Abu Amro, a spokesman for the rebel group Liwa al-Islam who uses only a nom de guerre. “Despite the misery and sorrow, people here were congratulating each other as if there is a real holiday. I haven’t seen such a situation since the beginning of the uprising.”

Abu Amro said the general had personally supervised security operations in Deir al-Zour from early on in the uprising, which began as a protest movement in March 2011. His appointment there signaled that the government intended a tough response.

He stood out from previous intelligence bosses there, Abu Amro said, by imposing full control over the province’s multiple security branches.

First, he clamped down on the city to hamper the peaceful side of the movement, even tightening restrictions on the ownership of motorbikes, Abu Amro said. Later, he said, the general hunted down armed rebel groups when they were still nascent.

Mr. Tomeh of the military council said General Jamea had also presided over the torture of captured rebels.

“Our joy is incomplete,” he said. “It would have been better if we arrested him. He has a lot of information.”

“We wanted to bring him to Lebanon to be killed by Lebanese hands,” he added. “We wanted to give the Lebanese this privilege.”

General Jamea served more than 20 years in Lebanon, during the decades when Syria dominated the country, arriving as a lieutenant and leaving in epaulets.

He was in charge of security in Beirut when Mr. Hariri was killed, which prompted a popular protest movement that culminated in Syria’s withdrawal from Lebanon, and Mr. Hariri’s supporters said it was hard to believe that such an operation could have been carried out without the general’s knowledge.

Gen. Hisham Jaber, a former commander in the Lebanese Army now at the Middle East Center for Studies and Public Relations in Beirut, defended General Jamea, saying he did not deserve his bloody reputation.

“Lebanese like to exaggerate,” General Jaber said, adding that “he was a very disciplined and humble man.”

A Lebanese television station showed an interview on the site of the general’s former headquarters with a man who said he had been tortured there. And Michel Mouawad, a politician and a son of René Mouawad, who was assassinated after becoming president of Lebanon in 1989, said he suspected General Jamea in his father’s death and wished that he had been tried in Lebanon.

The death of General Jamea added to the thousands plaguing his home region. “People are getting sick and tired of this,” said Manal, a government supporter, in a phone interview. “Can we just finish it up? I think both sides are weak now — no winner, just losers.”
470 2013-10-19 “Companies away from Google and Apple and a few others increasingly have trouble communicating a value proposition” to shareholders, said Martin Reynolds, an analyst with Gartner. “Only a few big companies are starting to matter.”

These new leaders have focused on Web-based businesses. While the big money in technology used to be in selling to businesses, today’s leaders are oriented toward consumers.

Friday’s gain made Google, already one of the world’s most valuable companies, one of the few in which buying a single share costs more than $1,000. Others include Priceline.com, the online-travel company, and Seaboard, which processes turkeys and hogs.

In some ways, Google’s investors are betting that quantity can beat quality. Google’s challenge has been lower prices for the ads it puts on its own and others’ Web pages. Much of the traditional market for these ads has been saturated, and Google has been trying to put more ads on mobile devices like smartphones and tablets. Mobile ads tend to make less money because people click on them less often.

But Google executives have emphasized the enormous number of mobile devices on which it now places ads, and indicated that the sheer number of mobile outlets was set to keep growing.

Much of the growth in mobile was initially in the developed world, where ad prices are generally higher. As the use of smartphones and tablets spreads into developing economies, the revenue per user is likely to drop, affecting overall profits unless Google can grow even faster in these markets. For the third consecutive quarter, 55 percent of Google’s revenue came from overseas sources.

Google also appeared to be moving more money through overseas accounts and holding more money overseas, a strategy Apple and others have used to avoid corporate taxes in the United States.

Both Republicans and Democrats in Washington have criticized Apple for its offshore tax strategies. So far, however, the trend among companies seems to be increasing.

“The U.S. corporate tax rate is supposed to be 35 percent, and Google was paying an effective rate of about 15 percent,” said Colin Gillis, an analyst with BGC Financial. “It wasn’t like there was a massive reacceleration of Google’s business here.”

Google finished the quarter with $56 billion in cash, held in the United States and overseas. Even the companies trying to compete with Google are starting to draw off their overseas cash, buying foreign companies. These deals include Microsoft’s purchase of the phone assets of Finland’s Nokia for $7.2 billion, and Cisco’s purchase of NDS, a video services company based in Britain, for $5 billion in 2012.

Even eBay’s recent Bill Me Later feature is backstopped with its overseas cash, Mr. Gillis said. “If I was starting a tech company, I’d put it in Luxembourg so I could get bought with a U.S. company’s offshore cash,” he said.

Google’s United States business grew just under 13 percent over the quarter, a low number that analysts ascribe to a maturing business. Google is trying to increase the profitability of its ads by making them more personal, doing things like looking at where people are or what their previous habits have been.

On Friday, Google announced a new partnership with a rival, Facebook, in which it will begin selling ads that can appear on the desktop version of Facebook’s service. It also announced changes to location-based searches in international markets. While this yields more profitable ads for Google, since people are generally more likely to click on things targeted at them, it also can run afoul of privacy advocates and regulators.

Over all, Google’s quarterly numbers showed that its audience was spending more time on mobile devices. The traditional business of people clicking ads on desktop and laptop computers was flat last quarter, according to Search Agency, a digital marketing firm. Clicks on phones more than doubled, the research company said, while tablet clicks were up 63 percent.

Another bright spot in Google’s earnings, though a relatively small one, was Google’s “other” category, believed to consist mostly of sales to businesses of Google Apps, Google’s alternative to Microsoft’s office communications and productivity software. This revenue was $1.23 billion, an increase of 85 percent from the third quarter of 2012.
471 2013-10-19 Alice Munro, the Canadian short-story writer who won the Nobel Prize in Literature last week, is unable to travel to Stockholm to accept her award because of health reasons, the administrators of the prize said on Friday. The ceremony is planned for Dec. 10. “No decision has yet been made about who will receive the Nobel Prize in Literature on her behalf,” a statement on NobelPrize.org said.

Ms. Munro, 82, lives in Clinton, Ontario, and has written 14 short-story collections, including “Dear Life,” which was published last year. Ms. Munro has said that she believes “Dear Life” will be her final book.
472 2013-10-19 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
473 2013-10-20 LIGHTER--Jeremiah B.,born Philadelphia, March 23, 1921, son of Julius and Sema Tabachnick Lighter, passed away peacefully on October 10, 2013 in Manhattan. A gifted artist, he signed his art "Lighter" or "Umy", an affectionate family name. His car...
474 2013-10-20 While China argues that progress is being made in ensuring citizens’ welfare, rights groups point to tightening restraints on political discourse and harsh treatment of dissent....
475 2013-10-20 It’s the same old fallacy....
476 2013-10-20 Allen Charles Klein and Bliss Hebert were married Tuesday morning by James Mitchell, a marriage officiant at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau in New York.

Since 1962, Mr. Klein, an opera scenery and costume designer, and Mr. Hebert, an opera stage director, have worked together in more than 100 productions. Their credits include Verdi’s “Aida,” at the Cincinnati Opera in July; Puccini’s “Turandot,” at the Dallas Opera in March; and Verdi’s “La Traviata,” at the Miami Opera in April and at the Dallas Opera in 2012.

They also worked on Offenbach’s “Tales of Hoffmann,” starring Plácido Domingo and Joan Sutherland, at the Metropolitan Opera in New York in 1973; Mozart’s “Marriage of Figaro,” featuring the United States debut of Kiri Te Kanawa, at the Santa Fe Opera in 1972; and “Pelléas and Mélisande,” at the Santa Fe Opera, with Frederica von Stade’s debut as Mélisande in 1972.

Mr. Klein (left), 73, created productions for the Vienna State Opera, Deutsche Oper Berlin, La Fenice in Venice, the Scottish Opera, the Edinburgh Festival and the Glyndebourne Festival. He graduated from Boston University.

He is a son of the late Edna Klein and the late Charles Klein, who lived in Brooklyn.

Mr. Hebert, 82, who has been the stage director of 320 productions of 120 operas, was the general manager of the Washington, D.C., Opera Company from 1960 to 1964, and a founding member of the Santa Fe Opera Company, where he worked until 1986. From 1957 to 1963 he worked with Igor Stravinsky on three operas, including five productions of “The Rake’s Progress.” Mr. Hebert was the prompter for Maria Callas in “La Traviata” at the Dallas Opera in 1958, and again in Bellini’s “La Pirata” at Carnegie Hall in New York in 1960. He graduated from Syracuse, from which he also received a master’s in music focusing on piano performance.
477 2013-10-20 Melissa Beth Davison, a daughter of Arlene P. Davison and Robert E. Davison of Clifton Park, N.Y., was married Saturday evening to Frank Thomas Giovinazzo, the son of Donna and Dr. Joseph A. Giovinazzo of New Springville, Staten Island. The Rev. Thomas Kelly, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony at St. Mary’s Church in Ballston Spa, N.Y.

Mrs. Giovinazzo, 30, is a residence hall director at New York University’s office of residential life and housing services in Manhattan. She graduated from N.Y.U., where she also received a master’s degree in higher education administration and student personnel.

Her father retired as the assistant director of financial administration for the New York State Department of Civil Service in Albany. Her mother retired as an addictions program specialist for the New York State Office of Alcohol and Substance Abuse Services, also in Albany.

Mr. Giovinazzo, 29, is an associate specializing in corporate real estate law at the Manhattan law firm Simpson Thacher & Bartlett. He graduated from Emory University and received a law degree from Harvard.

His father is a dentist in New Springville, Staten Island; the groom’s mother is the office manager.
478 2013-10-20 Melissa Kathryn Seligmann, a daughter of Peter O. A. Seligmann of Seattle and the late Susan Monaghan Seligmann, was married Saturday to Eugene Gokhvat, the son of Yelena Sokolov and Michael Gokhvat of Rockville, Md. Jody Gottfried Arnhold, a cousin of the bride who became a Universal Life minister for the occasion, officiated at the vacation home of the Seligmann family in Teton Village, Wyo.

Mrs. Gokhvat, 28, is the vice president for business development at Uncharted Play, a New York company that makes a soccer ball that stores energy while being used and can then, according to the company, power electrical appliances. She graduated from the University of Southern California and received a master’s degree in international affairs from the New School.

Her father is the board chairman and the chief executive of Conservation International, the environmental preservation organization in Arlington, Va.; he works in the organization’s Seattle office. Her mother was the president of Discovery Creek Children’s Museum in Washington. The bride is also a stepdaughter of Lee Rhodes, the president of Glassybaby, a Seattle company that makes glass votive candle holders.

Mr. Gokhvat, also 28, is a portfolio manager at BlueCrest Capital Management in New York. He graduated from Princeton.

His mother is a freelance translator and interpreter in Washington. His father is a financial analyst for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in Washington.
479 2013-10-20 Robin Haase, a Dutchman ranked No. 63, upset top-seeded Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, 7-5, 7-6 (4), on Saturday to set up a final against Tommy Haas at the Erste Bank Open in Vienna. The second-seeded Haas rallied past Lukas Rosol, 3-6, 6-4, 7-6 (0).

■ Top-seeded David Ferrer became the first Spaniard in 37 years to reach the Stockholm Open final when he beat fifth-seeded Ernests Gulbis of Latvia, 3-6, 6-4, 6-1. On Sunday, Ferrer will play seventh-seeded Grigor Dimotrov of Bulgaria, who defeated the wild card Benoît Paire of France, 4-6, 6-2, 6-2.

■ Top-seeded Caroline Wozniacki will play Annika Beck in Sunday’s final of the Luxembourg Open. Wozniacki defeated third-seeded Sabine Lisicki, 6-4, 6-4, in a semifinal. Beck advanced to her first WTA final when Stefanie Voegele retired at 7-5, 1-0 in the other semifinal.

■ Samantha Stosur beat her doubles partner, Svetlana Kuznetsova, 6-2, 6-4, and will face Simona Halep of Romania in the Kremlin Cup final in Moscow. Halep routed Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova of Russia, 6-2, 6-1.

■ In the men’s semifinals in the Kremlin Cup, top-seeded Richard Gasquet beat Ivo Karlovic of Croatia, 6-4, 7-5, and the qualifier Mikhail Kukushkin of Kazakhstan upset the defending champion, Andreas Seppi of Italy, 6-1, 1-6, 6-4.
480 2013-10-20 “Don’t think for a second that is not a capitalist,” Neil M. Ashe, chief executive of Walmart Global E-Commerce, said of the belief of Mr. Bezos, founder and chief executive of Amazon, in low prices and paper-thin margins. “They’re just playing a game, which is, ‘We’re just going to wait out the world.’ ”

Although the fierce competition between Walmart and Amazon is occurring in all areas, to get the technological edge Walmart has to succeed in San Bruno.

The company has had a small presence near Silicon Valley for more than a decade, but until recently, engineers in the area barely knew it existed. It signed a lease three years ago for the San Bruno office, north of the valley — and across the street from — and is opening another this fall in Sunnyvale, home of , in the heart of the valley. It is trying hard to prove it is one of the cool kids.

For example, at press events in Bentonville, Ark., Walmart’s headquarters, the menu tends to be ham sandwiches, chips and iced tea. At a recent event in San Bruno, it was white asparagus panna cotta with house-smoked salmon tartar, morel mushroom macaroons and charcuterie from a whole pig. Borrowing a page from and , the company offers hack days when engineers can work on whatever they want.

The changes are more than cosmetic, though. This year, @WalmartLabs has gone on a start-up shopping spree, buying four companies — Torbit, OneOps, Tasty Labs and Inkiru — that build things like tools to crunch data and speed up Web sites. The acquisitions included some of the start-ups’ founders and engineers, the time-honored way for Silicon Valley companies to hire the talented employees they need to build better Web and mobile tools.

Walmart has hundreds of open jobs at its office here. This summer, the company hired 150 people from companies like Yahoo and .

The company’s pitch to engineers is that Walmart moves quickly and has huge problems to solve, even if it is not a nimble newcomer or a buzzworthy start-up.

“There’s big data and there’s Walmart big data,” said Ravi Raj, vice president for mobile and social products at @WalmartLabs. “Every week we release half a dozen features.”

Rick Devine, chief executive of TalentSky, a Silicon Valley recruiting firm that has recruited for the company before, said Walmart’s scale was attractive to young engineers. Still, he said, the competition is fierce.

“The kind of people they’re going to be looking for — big data and e-commerce type of people — those are the same kinds of people Silicon Valley cares about,” he said.

Amazon, which is based in , also has a Silicon Valley presence; its Lab126 research company, located a few miles from ’s headquarters, developed the Kindle and is working on other mobile devices. Amazon is a much bigger player online, with $74.4 billion in revenue expected for 2013. While Walmart’s total revenue is close to $500 billion, it has said it expects just a fraction of that, $10 billion, in e-commerce revenue for the year ending January 2014.

had 62.5 million unique visitors in August, compared with Amazon’s 133 million, according to Compete, which tracks Web use.

“Amazon is the Walmart of the post-2000 period,” said Matt Nemer, an analyst at .

Walmart was slow to embrace online shopping, keeping its Web operations separate and haltingly adopting new technology. These days, though, it is trying to turn its 4,100 stores in the United States and many of its 6,200 stores overseas into e-commerce assets.

Two-thirds of the United States population is within five miles of a Walmart, according to the company, and more than 10 percent of items ordered online are shipped from stores. Countries in which it has a physical presence for e-commerce include , and .

It is also allowing customers to pick up online orders in stores or, in a test in , in lockers. It is trying same-day delivery in five markets, and grocery delivery in the Bay Area and .

Executives say Walmart wants to become almost as fast as Amazon, but for people who can’t afford the $79 fee of Amazon’s Prime service, with its free two-day shipping.

Amazon has been building warehouses throughout the United States as it tries to expedite its shipping and conquer online grocery delivery. It has had lockers at stores like 7-Eleven for about a year, though in September, and Staples stopped participating in the program. Abroad, Amazon has moved even faster with services like same-day delivery and groceries.

Following Amazon, Walmart has revamped its online and mobile technology. It has software to watch social media like for popular products and to monitor online prices and lower them accordingly or alert merchants.

And it has created a mobile app that flips into in-store mode when customers enter a store and guides them to the milk or celery and offers digital coupons; customers can scan items as they shop for quick self-checkout.

Analysts say that while Walmart’s scale and profitability give it an edge, its Web efforts still lag Amazon’s. The grocery delivery test, for instance, has gone on for two years without expansion. Mr. Nemer of Wells Fargo called many of the efforts, like lockers and same-day shipping, “blocking and tackling” without real relevance to Walmart’s dominance, or inferiority, in the new world of shopping.

Mr. Ashe of Walmart said of those efforts, “The question is whether people want them.” Echoing ’s motto on risk taking, “fail harder,” he said: “We fully expect, and want, to shut things down.”

And, he said, the culture clash between Bentonville and San Bruno has not been as great as one might expect.

“We are of Walmart and Silicon Valley at the same time,” he said. “So we have a great cafeteria, but we don’t pay for all your food.”
481 2013-10-20 Andrew Ritter made a 41-yard field goal with two seconds left to lead Mississippi to a 27-24 win at home over No. 6 Louisiana State on Saturday night.

Ole Miss (4-3, 2-3 Southeastern Conference) was ahead nearly the entire game until late in the fourth quarter, when L.S.U.’s Zach Mettenberger hit Jarvis Landry for a 4-yard touchdown to tie it at 24-24 with 3 minutes 19 seconds remaining. But the Rebels responded with a drive that ended in Ritter’s field goal.

L.S.U. (6-2, 3-2) could not overcome a rough game by Mettenberger, who threw three interceptions.

AUBURN 45, TEXAS A&M 41 Nick Marshall accounted for four scores as visiting No. 24 Auburn battered Johnny Manziel in a win over No. 7 Texas A&M.

Texas A&M (5-2, 2-2 SEC) had a last chance, but Manziel was sacked by Dee Ford on fourth down. Marshall threw for 236 yards and 2 touchdowns and ran for 100 yards and 2 more scores for Auburn (6-1, 3-1).

TENNESSEE 23, S. CAROLINA 21 Michael Palardy made a 19-yard field goal as time expired to give host Tennessee a victory over No. 11 South Carolina, ending the Volunteers’ 19-game losing streak against ranked teams.
482 2013-10-20 “It was part of the parade of big roadside restaurants that replaced local Kiwanis clubs as places to gather in the late ’50s and ’60s,” said Corby Kummer, a restaurant critic for Boston magazine and a senior editor at The Atlantic magazine.

The cowboy décor of such restaurants, he said, reflected the enduring romance of the Old West that was evident in Hollywood and popular television series of the day like “Gunsmoke” and “Bonanza.”

But the Hilltop stood out. For one thing, it is hard to miss the 68-foot-high illuminated green cactus sign and the herd of fiberglass cows out front, just a few feet from Route 1. The cactus, a lodestar along the busy commercial corridor, is to Saugus what the Hollywood sign is to Los Angeles — a landmark that says you know where you are. Word is that pilots have used the cactus to get their bearings.

For another thing, everything about the Hilltop is colossal. It seats 1,400 people over four acres, with seven acres out back for parking. Even the parking spaces are outsize: 12 feet wide instead of the standard 9.

In the late 1980s, Restaurants & Institutions, a trade magazine now defunct, declared that the Hilltop was colossal in another way — it did more business than any restaurant in the country. The magazine estimated the restaurant’s 1986 sales at $26.9 million. It was serving nearly 2.4 million people a year, three times as many as the nation’s second-busiest restaurant, Tavern on the Green in Manhattan.

Hilltop’s founder, Frank Giuffrida, was known for serving gigantic portions while keeping a lid on prices. That philosophy still rules: an 18-ounce bone-in sirloin steak costs $25.99.

Food industry experts told The Boston Globe in 1987 that Mr. Giuffrida devoted much more of his budget (50 percent) to food than other restaurants typically did (35 percent). That meant he was giving customers a better deal and accepting a lower profit margin, but generating enormous volume.

Another key to his success was running the kind of place that families wanted to come back to again and again and that quickly knitted itself into the fabric of their lives.

“We made our major decisions here,” said Mary Gail Ranaldi, 61, a real estate broker who was having a final lunch the other day with one of her brothers and their father. “If one of us lost a job, if something wasn’t right, we’d come here and have a meal,” she said.

Sitting in a big booth now filled her with memories of her mother, who died five years ago. They came to the Hilltop twice a month because her mother, who had eight children, loved being waited on. “As the family grew up, we’d bring our own families,” Ms. Ranaldi said. “And the food was really good. You couldn’t get a better lobster pie.”

And it was a fun place for young people who came for the cheap food and the campy atmosphere. One year, pranksters from M.I.T. kidnapped a fiberglass cow and hoisted it atop the university’s Great Dome.

Many who came to say goodbye admitted that they had not come for years. The food was not as good, they said, and the place had not kept up with the times.

“We used to come once a week in the ’70s and ’80s,” said Irene Rais, 72. But the last time she came, a few years ago, she said, the steak was tough. She came for a last meal not out of fondness but to use a gift certificate.

“When Frank was here, he ran it like you wouldn’t believe,” she said of Mr. Giuffrida. “But when he died and they sold it, it went downhill. And now the kids don’t come.”

Older people stopped coming, too. “The clientele that supported it for so long is either dying or moving to Florida,” said Randy Suckney, 39, a hockey coach who used to work at the Hilltop as a line cook and was having a last meal here with his father.

In announcing that the restaurant was closing, the management did not mention the many complaints about the food, which had been piling up online in recent months.

“Over the past several years, we have seen a dramatic change in the volume of our business,” the announcement said. “The continued change in the demographics of our customer base, increased competition and the increased cost to run this fabulous landmark has been too great to overcome.”

But with the end near, the Hilltop is suddenly more popular than ever. A police officer now stands guard because patrons have been pilfering items like pots and pans. Laminated Hilltop menus and branded dinnerware are showing up on eBay.

The fiberglass cows will be auctioned off. So far, no one has said what will become of the giant cactus. Many of its lights have burned out and not been replaced.
483 2013-10-20 No one who watched that game could deduce that Sanchez played well, just as no discerning fan scanning the passer rating rankings would call Brady (79.5) the league’s 23rd-best quarterback this season. But Geno Smith (74.7), at No. 27? That could be true.

This is all because passer rating — or quarterback rating, as it is also known, imprecisely — retains an air of mystery, if not opacity. It is the N.F.L.’s version of the quirky distant cousin who somehow appears at every family function, a 40-year stalwart of statistics that is viewed consistently with discriminating suspicion.

Adopted in 1973, the rating is derived from four categories: completion percentage, touchdown percentage, interception percentage and yards per passing attempt. They are shoved into a mathematical blender and puréed until out pours a 92.3 (Joe Montana’s career rating) or a 79.9 (John Elway) or a 65.5 (Joe Namath).

A perfect 158.3 rating does not guarantee victory; just ask Chad Pennington, who achieved that mystical figure for the Jets against the Indianapolis Colts on Nov. 16, 2003, but still lost, the only N.F.L. quarterback to do so. Nor does a 0.0, the lowest possible rating, portend doom; just ask Brent Pease, whose Houston Oilers defeated Kansas City, 7-6, on Oct. 9, 1988, because he rushed for the game’s only touchdown.

The formula is possibly known only by atomic physicists, aerospace engineers and the inventors of the fun-size candy bar. Quarterbacks certainly are not aware.

“I’d be hard pressed to tell you,” the Hall of Famer Dan Fouts said.

“Calculate it?” David Garrard said, laughing. Then he laughed some more.

Garrard (85.8) knows most of the components, but he said that they hardly present a comprehensive reflection of a quarterback’s performance. The rating does not distinguish between drops and overthrows, an interception that went straight to the linebacker and one that was tipped three times. It also does not take into account a quarterback’s rushing yards or fumbles he committed, the quality of his supporting cast or game situations.

That day in Indianapolis when Pennington notched his 158.3, Herman Edwards watched from the Jets’ sideline. As a coach, and now as an analyst for ESPN, Edwards said, he does not pay attention to it because it does not factor in any of the criteria he used to evaluate his quarterbacks’ play. Edwards said he cared how Pennington — and others — fared on third down, in the red zone, in two-minute drills and in the fourth quarter when trailing.

“It’s a fun thing to look at, and I’m not knocking why the number’s there,” Edwards said in a telephone interview. “But to me, it was always, Can a guy function in these situations? Because these are the situations that win football games.”

Fouts played a chunk of his career in an era highlighted by downfield passing, a high-risk, high-reward style that runs counter to the short, efficient approach of the West Coast offense the Jets operate. Many of Fouts’s contemporaries, because of their relatively low completion percentages and high interception rates, have meager ratings. Fouts, who had a rating of 80.2 and called himself “a very good average quarterback,” said he never wondered about his rating, and now as an analyst for CBS Sports, he does not cite it during broadcasts.

“It never occurred to me to think, Boy, I’ve got to get my rating to this,” Fouts said in a telephone interview. “My thought was, I’ve got to find a way to win this game.”

Marty Mornhinweg, the Jets’ offensive coordinator, said the statistic is freighted with value, particularly when he breaks it down in different situations. But when he said on Oct. 4 that the offense chases perfection “and you never quite catch it,” he most likely did not anticipate Smith’s logging a 158.3 in the first half three days later in Atlanta. After completing 16 of 20 passes for 199 yards and 3 touchdowns with no interceptions against the Falcons, Smith finished at 147.7 — which, for all of Peyton Manning’s excellence in Denver, is the best single-game rating by a starter this season.

Mornhinweg acknowledged that he sets a benchmark for his quarterback to reach each game, but he declined to share it. Smith said that he aims for a minimum of 100 and that he considers ratings in the 80s and 90s decent.

“Anything under that is pretty bad,” Smith said.

By his own measure, then, Smith has had a pretty bad season despite having, by passer rating standards, just two pretty bad games: Sept. 12 at New England (27.6) and last week against Pittsburgh (48.8). That Smith earned a 79.2 for his worst game, in which he accounted for four turnovers in a 38-13 loss at Tennessee on Sept. 29, does not make sense.

But this might: the team with the higher passer rating has won the Jets’ last 22 games. Chances are, as Ryan can attest, that streak will continue on Sunday.
484 2013-10-20 And so a town of about 12,000, whose high school football team was praised a few years back for allowing a boy with Down syndrome to score a touchdown, now finds itself facing threats and scorn.

“Doesn’t matter how you view the situation happened,” said Steve Klotz, the assistant superintendent for the Maryville School District. “We’re all now in a position where we have an uneasy feeling about what does this mean for our town.”

The case resembles an episode in Steubenville, Ohio, in which two high school football players were convicted this year of raping a drunken girl at a party.

In that case, and in this, much of the outrage has been driven by social media, with the hacking collective Anonymous among the most vocal players, lashing out against people that it believes have failed or mistreated the accuser. The group has organized a rally to be held here on Tuesday. The accuser, Daisy Coleman, now 16, has spoken out publicly in the hope that she can help garner enough support to have her case reconsidered.

The community was shocked almost two years ago when Matt Barnett, then a senior at Maryville High School and the grandson of a once-prominent local politician, was arrested in January 2012 on charges that he had sex with Ms. Coleman, a freshman who the authorities said had been too drunk to consent. Under Missouri law, consensual sex between Mr. Barnett and Ms. Coleman would not be statutory rape because he was under 21 and she was at least 14. Two other boys were arrested — one, a 15-year-old, on charges that he sexually assaulted a 13-year-old girl, and another 17-year-old on charges that he filmed Mr. Barnett and Ms. Coleman.

The authorities had alleged that Ms. Coleman and a friend had been drinking before they sneaked out of Ms. Coleman’s house late that frigid night in January and went to Mr. Barnett’s home, where he was hanging out with several friends. Ms. Coleman said in an interview that she drank a clear liquid in a tall glass when she arrived and could not remember anything after that.

Eyewitness accounts say that Ms. Coleman went into a room with Mr. Barnett and that she had to be carried out afterward because she was so drunk, although one of Mr. Barnett’s friends told the police that the pair went into a room on two separate occasions and that it was only after the second time that Ms. Coleman could not walk on her own.

The 13-year-old went into a different room with the 15-year-old boy. He admitted to having sex with her even though she said no, according to the authorities. (His case went to juvenile court.)

Mr. Barnett and his friends drove Ms. Coleman and her friend back to her house. Melinda Coleman, Ms. Coleman’s mother, said she found her barely conscious in front of the house around 5 a.m., wearing sweat pants and a T-shirt. She called the police, and her daughter was taken to the hospital, where she was found to have a blood-alcohol level of 0.13 percent, well above the legal limit for driving.

Mr. Barnett admitted to having sex with Ms. Coleman but said it was consensual and disputed the claim that he had left her out in the cold in front of her house.

It didn’t take long for the town to take sides.

Ms. Coleman said she was harassed at school and on Facebook and Twitter. In one instance, she said, she was walking to the bathroom at school when a boy popped into the hallway and yelled “Liar!” at her.

“We had a handful of people that were really good to us, and we had a handful of people that just completely stayed out of it,” Ms. Coleman said. “But then we had a large group of people that were not so kind towards us.”

Her mother chimed in: “I would say it was pretty split. The people that were against us were so aggressively against us and so verbal and so hateful.”

Unable to withstand the harassment, the Colemans, who had moved to Maryville after the death of Ms. Coleman’s father, returned to their hometown, Albany, about 30 miles away. Their house in Maryville burned down after they left, and the cause remains unknown.

Mr. Rice, who declined to be interviewed, dismissed the charges months after they were filed, saying Ms. Coleman and her mother had stopped cooperating, something they both denied.

Mr. Barnett’s lawyer, Robert Sundell, also declined to be interviewed but released a statement accusing Ms. Coleman of inconsistent testimony at a deposition and changing her story several times. Ms. Coleman says she never changed her account of what happened that night, and Sheriff Darren White agrees.

“I think that they have been fairly consistent with that portion of it,” he said. But Sheriff White, who said he believed that Ms. Coleman had been sexually assaulted, also blamed the dropping of the case on her lack of cooperation.

Adam Clark, 32, who has lived here for about a decade, said he and a friend drove to a town about 45 minutes away on a recent evening to see a movie, to “kind of get breathing space from all the activity, the negativity.”

He said he had not taken a side in the case and welcomed a re-examination. “One thing about us here,” he said, “if there’s a problem, we’ll fix it.”
485 2013-10-20 Despite the success of the swap on Saturday, it appeared most unlikely that the agreement, which involved only one of Syria’s hundreds of rebel groups and focused solely on the exchange of captives, could be expanded to open the possibility of talks aimed at ending the war.

In fact, the 17-month detention by Sunni rebels left some of the Lebanese captives, all of them Shiites, seeing the war in starkly sectarian terms.

“The situation is worse than you think,” Abbas Shuaib, one of the released men, told television reporters after his return to Lebanon. “If those people came to Beirut, they would consider our women free for the taking. This is war against the Shiites.” (The rebels in Syria are mainly Sunni, and the president, Bashar al-Assad, is a member of the Alawite sect, an offshoot of Shiite Islam.)

Other men who were interviewed said that they had been held in cramped conditions and had often heard battles nearby, but that their captors had never threatened their lives. Their return to Beirut set off a frenzy at the airport and celebrations in their neighborhoods.

The head of Lebanon’s general security agency, Maj. Gen. Abbas Ibrahim, accompanied the men on their flight to Beirut and thanked Qatar, Turkey and Mr. Assad for facilitating the agreement. It was unclear what role Mr. Assad may have played.

The Lebanese and Turkish captives flew home aboard private Qatari jets. In Turkey, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan joined a crowd at the airport to welcome the released pilots.

News of the impending swap had spread on Friday, when Lebanon’s interior minister said the Lebanese captives who had been held for more than a year had crossed from northern Syria into Turkey. The Syrian rebels had accused the men of belonging to Hezbollah, the Lebanese militant group. Hezbollah officials and the captives’ families denied that, saying the men had been returning by bus from a pilgrimage to Iran. Eleven were originally held captive, but two were released months ago.

Then on Saturday, two Turkish Airlines pilots who had been kidnapped this year by gunmen were given to Lebanese security officials, who flew them by helicopter to Beirut’s international airport. It was widely believed the gunmen had captured the pilots in hopes of pressuring Turkey, which backs the Syrian rebels, to push for the Lebanese captives’ release. Late on Saturday, at roughly the same time, the two jets took off.

In Syria, fighting raged between rebels and the military for control of a Damascus suburb after a suicide bomber attack on a government checkpoint that an opposition monitoring group said killed at least 16 soldiers. After the attack, at least 15 rebel fighters were killed in heavy clashes as the government launched airstrikes and rebels peppered a government-controlled area with mortar rounds, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which monitors the conflict from Britain through a network of contacts in Syria.

While clashes erupt daily between the ring of mostly rebel-held suburbs around the capital and the government-controlled core of the city, the death toll in Saturday’s battle was high, reflecting the rebels’ determination to advance toward downtown even after the government reclaimed territory elsewhere.

The use of a suicide bomber to open a rebel offensive also shows the increasing sway of extremist groups in areas close to the capital. While two affiliates of Al Qaeda are active in Syria — the Nusra Front and the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria — they are most prominent in the country’s north and east, where they can easily transport arms and foreign fighters across the Turkish and Iraqi borders.

Recently, their presence has increased in central and southern Syria, although more mainstream rebel groups still outnumber them.

The Syrian Observatory, which supports the opposition, said Saturday’s battle began when a suicide bomber from the Nusra Front blew up the car he was driving near a government checkpoint between the suburbs of Jaramana and Al Mleiha.
486 2013-10-20 HONG KONG — A politically outspoken Chinese economist, Xia Yeliang, will lose his professorship at Peking University, one of China’s most prestigious and internationally prominent schools, after a committee voted to dismiss him, Professor Xia said on Saturday. The decision came after months of contention over his future, which his supporters have said reflects the Communist Party’s efforts to deter liberal political views on campuses.

Professor Xia said the School of Economics at the university notified him on Friday that an evaluation committee had voted last week against renewing his contract, which runs out in late January. The Associated Press previously reported the decision.

“To me, the decision is deeply unreasonable, but there’s little I can do,” Professor Xia said in a telephone interview. On Friday, he said, “a head of the school told me that if I keep saying to the international media that this is a political case, not an academic one, then my situation will become even worse.” He declined to name the faculty leader.

Professor Xia, 53, must now find new work, with virtually no prospect that another Chinese university will dare to employ him.

The decision may complicate Peking University’s extensive ties with universities and academics in the United States and elsewhere. Repeated calls to the university’s School of Economics and Office of International Relations were not answered on Saturday, which was not a working day in China.
487 2013-10-20 “I thought she was really hot, but also a little nutty,” Mr. Powell said of Ms. Knox. She spoke openly about her love life, her recent breakup and anything else. “The things she said were so charming and funny,” he said. Much more reserved, he stuck to his side of the room.

Yet less than a week later, when he saw her waiting for a bus after rehearsal, he invited her to brunch. She suggested they go to her apartment instead, where she had a bar stocked with leftovers from a recent party. They made Bellinis as they talked about their backgrounds, their exes and what they valued in relationships.

Romance with Mr. Powell was not on Ms. Knox’s mind. She was still heartbroken, and Mr. Powell was too skinny and too young for her. She was 26 at the time and was used to dating men who were much older. “I wasn’t coy or sheepish or however you’re supposed to be when you want a guy to like you,” she said. “I was just a blabbermouth like I am normally.”

Nonetheless Mr. Powell was completely smitten. “We had so much in common,” he said. “And also, I realized that I needed someone like her who is a little reckless and who throws caution to the wind.”

He had been going out with lawyers, and each date had felt like a cross-examination. Now, he felt drawn to this woman who was open, spontaneous and made him want to connect rather than hide.

The next day, he asked if she wanted to “hang out.” He meant that he would like to take her to dinner, but that wasn’t clear to Ms. Knox. Unsure of his intentions, she picked two outfits, one for a date and the other for actually hanging out. In the end she mixed them, wearing a casual sweater with stylish black leggings.

She realized it was a date when he ordered an expensive bottle of sake without consulting her. “He was such a great guy, and I’d never met anyone who listened to me like he did,” she said. “But I kept telling myself that he was not my type.” When he kissed her at the end of the night, she kept her eyes open, hoping he would pick up on her ambivalence.

Even so, the friendship deepened and they had a date every few days, taking turns cooking dinner for each other and meeting each other’s friends.

Mr. Powell saw in Ms. Knox the same generosity and honesty he always admired in his mother and grandmother, who raised him. He took her to Delaware, where he had spent his teenage years and had gotten his start in theater. She introduced him to her parents, who lived in Connecticut, and, at his insistence, began to transform her love of painting from a hobby into a career as a visual artist.

“I don’t think she would have done that if I, or her dad, had suggested it,” said her mother, Gail Knox. “Keith really helped bring out her personality” — one that Mrs. Knox described as buoyant and flamboyant. “Jill is always banging around, flying around, and every once in a while you have to yank her back down.”

Katrina Bowden, who played Cerie on “30 Rock” and who was married in New York this spring, said: “Jill is like a firecracker. Funny. Silly. Outspoken.”

Yet Ms. Knox remained ambivalent, even as the relationship deepened. “My friends kept telling me to do whatever felt right, and what felt right was to see him,” said Ms. Knox, who is now 30.

In fact, neither she nor Mr. Powell had discussed the status of their relationship. So when they first appeared together on a red carpet, for the premiere of “Night at the Museum: Battle of the Smithsonian,” in which Mr. Powell, who is now 34, played a Tuskegee Airman, they were caught off guard by the inevitable questions this raised.

About a month later, she told him that she had started calling him her boyfriend. “Is that O.K.?” she asked. He said it was, and that was the extent of the conversation.

Feeling certain that Mr. Powell had approached the relationship as skeptically as she had, Ms. Knox eventually told him she was in love with him. “I know you don’t feel the same way,” she said. “It’s fine. Don’t humor me.”

Mr. Powell, who was less well versed in expressing his feelings, told her that with a little more time, he would catch up to her. With others, he said: “The whole ‘I love you’ thing was always a negotiation. For somebody to be so openhearted about it, it freaked me out a little bit.”

A few months later, Mr. Powell showed up late to a benefit gala for the Studio Museum in Harlem, where George L. Knox, Ms. Knox’s father, is on the board. Mr. Powell looked terrible and clearly didn’t want to be there, she recalled. He had been on the road for five days. His tuxedo was wrinkled, he had bags under his eyes and he could barely stay awake. She told him: “If you don’t think you love me, you’re a fool. You would not be here right now if you didn’t.”

He spent the rest of the evening professing that love.

“Keith was crazy about Jill,” said Ms. Bowden, who noted that her cast mate had talked about Ms. Knox and her artistic talent on the set every day. “Keith was always a very grounded guy, very logical and sensible.”

In 2012, after years of awards shows and elaborate, surprise birthday celebrations, the couple bought a house together in Los Angeles.

It needed a new kitchen, but that problem solved itself when they were cast on HGTV’s “House Hunters Renovation.” They got their kitchen and more; the show’s producers told Ms. Knox they needed one final shot, of the couple having a picnic, during which she opened a “Will you marry me?” fortune cookie.

They were wed in New York on Oct. 12, outdoors at the Tribeca Rooftop, with the new World Trade Center providing a shimmering backdrop. After the Rev. Samora Smith, an Interfaith minister, joined the couple, their guests (including “30 Rock” co-stars Judah Friedlander, Maulik Pancholy and Ms. Bowden, along with Lolita Foster from the show “Orange Is the New Black”) filed into a cavernous white-walled space. There they saw paintings by the bride on the tables, each celebrating a different relationship milestone.

As for the flamboyant bride, no one sought to yank her back down to earth on this night. But in her vows, a calmer, more reflective Ms. Knox spoke about finding solid footing with Mr. Powell. “You make me want to be the best version of myself,” she said. “Even though it scares me.” (In a good way, of course.)
488 2013-10-20 That program, hosted by Mr. Cosby, was included in a seven-part series about a wide swath of black issues, said Tim Brooks, a television historian. Mr. Cosby’s segment looked at the search for racial identity; profiled inventors, surgeons and other black people left out of history books; and showed TV and film clips depicting the evolution of blacks in those mediums. By now there have been more than 100 documentaries about black history, but they have dealt with a particular segment of the story, Professor Gates said.

Mr. Brooks has not seen “The African Americans,” but said that by “covering in reasonable depth the whole sweep of black history until today, it is distinctive.”

Like Mr. Cosby’s program, broadcast in 1968, “The African Americans” lands on TV in a pivotal year, when the country’s racial past has been pushed front and center in politics and culture. The confluence of events includes the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington, George Zimmerman’s acquittal in the death of Trayvon Martin, and Supreme Court decisions on affirmative action and voting rights.

The “African Americans” also arrives amid an unusually large, diverse number of black feature films, some with historical elements, like “Lee Daniels’ The Butler” and “Twelve Years a Slave,” for which Professor Gates, a cultural historian and literary critic, was a consultant.

“We’re certainly in a renaissance of black film and the willingness to confront slavery,” said Professor Gates, who has presented several documentaries on history and genealogy, including “Black in Latin America” in 2011 and “Finding Your Roots” in 2012, both on PBS.

At the same time, he said, “there is a whole generation, a new generation; they’re very cosmopolitan, multiracial and ahistorical. They haven’t seen ‘Roots’ and they haven’t seen ‘Eyes on the Prize,’ ” the 1987 documentary about the civil rights movement.

Professor Gates began this project, which cost about $8 million, by putting a question to the historians: If you had six hours to tell 500 years of African-American history, what periods and stories would you include? After amassing 500 stories, Professor Gates and his creative team winnowed them down to 11 or 12 an episode.

“It is not just about the English and Africans at Jamestown, but the Spanish in the Southwest and at St. Augustine, the French in the Lower Mississippi Valley, the Dutch in New York,” said Ira Berlin, a professor at the University of Maryland and one of the historians consulted for the series. “It’s a whole new cast of characters.”

Khalil Gibran Muhammad, a historian and director of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture in Harlem, said he hoped that the show would help “move the needle” on a much-needed comprehensive examination of black history. His concern is that not enough resources flow to public schools and other institutions where most learning takes place, especially since films and television do not always get things right.

And there is an appetite for the work, he said. Many sophisticated young people “see the past as a cautionary note,” he said. “These people I’m describing are using history to make contemporary critiques on race, commenting on the deeply fragile state of race relations.”

But history cannot be used if it is not adequately taught, Dr. Muhammad said, and he contends that these lessons still face political and social land mines. “Our young people are not being taught these lessons in school because these questions inevitably lead to challenging the status quo,” he said.

A DVD of “The African Americans” and a companion book are intended to provide a one-stop resource for students at many levels. The show’s Web site at PBS.org will elaborate on the history in the program. In New York, the public television station WNET is also creating middle and high school lesson plans for each episode.

Professor Gates said that one of his motives was to provide tools to other teachers and schools. “We shape citizens through our schools and it’s done invisibly,” he said. Lessons about the Pilgrims, George Washington and others “are designed to mold a certain attitude that makes you an American citizen,” he said. “Well, what’s been left out historically is us: the contributions of African-Americans.”
489 2013-10-20 “There is a perception that you can put anything on the market, that people will come along and buy it,” said Robby Browne, a broker with the Corcoran Group, who has been asked by sellers to put apartments on the market at what he said were unrealistic prices.

“What’s fueling the perception is that there have been so many high trades,” Mr. Browne said. “But there are not as many of these trades as people think.”

Brokers liken what is happening to a “keeping up with the Joneses” effect, or more precisely the Rybolovlevs — as in Russian billionaire Dmitry Rybolovlev and his eldest daughter, Ekaterina. Through a trust linked to Ekaterina, the Rybolovlevs two years ago paid $88 million for a 10-room penthouse at 15 Central Park West, or $13,000 a square foot, which at the time was a record.

After that deal, which closed in February 2012, a fever seemed to overcome sellers, who were suddenly convinced that their homes could command nosebleed-level prices, brokers said.

“That really wasn’t a fair comp,” or comparable price, to use to value a unit, said Richard J. Steinberg, a broker with Warburg Realty. “But unfortunately, every seller of every co-op and every condo in the city started using that as their base line.”

And Mr. Steinberg knows firsthand about unrealistic expectations.

In the spring, he listed a four-bedroom unit at 770 Park Avenue, a prewar co-op on the Upper East Side, at $23.8 million. But it didn’t get many bites, so he slashed the price by 25 percent in mid-September. At $17.9 million, he said, “we’re seeing double the amount of traffic through the apartment.”

Looking at the complete price history of Mr. Steinberg’s listing reinforces the idea that the “Rybolovlev effect” amounts to about 25 percent. In 2011, before the $88 million sale closed, the same 770 Park apartment was priced at $18 million, with Sotheby’s International Realty, so in a sense it is currently listed back where it was valued before the game-changing transaction at 15 Central Park West.

It is clear that the stratosphere of the market — those homes for $3 million or more, or the top 10 percent — has been sluggish, at least relative to the bottom, according to an analysis by Miller Samuel, the appraisal firm.

Since January 2012, 56 percent of the listings in this top category sold below the final asking price; 19 percent sold for the original list price; and 25 percent sold above the final asking price, the data show. In contrast, in the bottom 90 percent of sales, the number of properties that sold for less than their final asking price was just 2 percent.

Along the same lines, the top 10 percent’s absorption rate — the number of months it would take to sell all the inventory at the current pace of sales — was slow, too. It stood at almost nine months in the third quarter of this year, compared with three months for the rest of the market, the data show.

In more rarefied air — homes for $6 million or more, or the top 2 percent of the market — there were even more apartments that sold at a discount, or about 59 percent since 2012, according to Miller Samuel. In that category, the average discount was about 12 percent, or $1.7 million, and beyond that level, the trims seem bigger.

In May, a five-bedroom penthouse with 5,000 square feet at 257 West 17th Street, a prewar condo conversion in Chelsea, came on the market at $12.5 million. But it had to lower its price by 25 percent to close at $9.5 million in September.

Toni Haber, the Douglas Elliman broker who handled the sale, said that the $88 million deal at 15 Central Park West was just one factor putting upward pressure on prices.

The other, maybe more significant one, is out-of-the-gate developments like One57, the Midtown condo, which smashed the 15 Central Park West record a few months later with a $90 million penthouse sale. Similarly influential new developments include Walker Tower, a condo on West 18th Street in Chelsea, which has had prices of nearly $4,000 a square foot on its upper levels.

“We were trying to leverage off Walker Tower,” acknowledged Ms. Haber, in listing her West 17th Street apartment for $2,500 a square foot, even though it ultimately sold for $1,900.

Ultimately, she added, echoing other brokers, comparing the values of resale condos with new ones can be as futile as an analysis of apples and oranges. “If the seller is a real seller,” she said, “they need to listen.”

For his part, Jonathan J. Miller, the president of Miller Samuel, squarely holds the Rybolovlev purchase responsible for the trend. “It was really a false positive,” he said.

Indeed, citing news reports, Mr. Miller added that Mr. Rybolovlev’s wife, Elena, has claimed in divorce documents that the purchase was made to shield assets, so it was not a conventional deal. Mr. Rybolovlev maintains, however, that the penthouse was bought for “succession planning.”

If many sellers of luxury real estate came out of the gates clueless, a dose of reality might now have set in.

Of the current crop of active listings in the $6 million-and-up category, which have been on the market for an average of 168 days, according to the Miller Samuel data, 85 percent have lowered their prices at some point.

Whether it works remains to be seen, but Emily Beare, a broker with Core Group Marketing, is hopeful that a 26 percent chop on her listing, a combined unit on the 35th floor of 15 Central Park West, was a savvy move.

Since 2012, the unit, which has 6,000 square feet but no outdoor space, has dropped three times, from $95 million to $85 million to $70 million in September of this year. The apartment, whose views sweep from Central Park to the Hudson, is owned by the steel magnate Leroy Schecter.

“I think there has been some irrational exuberance, yes,” Ms. Beare said. “But this is still a very strong market, no question, and that’s due to lack of inventory.”

Other listings coming closer to earth in recent months include a five-bedroom duplex at 435 East 52nd Street, the River House co-op, with 11-foot ceilings. It’s now listed at $19.5 million, down from $25.5 million, a 24 percent drop.

Carolyn E. Y. Guthrie, the Brown Harris Stevens broker who is listing it, explained that it can be hard to nail the price for rare apartments, though the market can set things straight. “They come on the market with no comps to substantiate them,” she said. “But buyers aren’t stupid.”

And as with other listings, it may take a couple of different agents before an apartment gets it right. Take for instance a five-bedroom at 115 Central Park West, the Art Deco Majestic co-op, which has 110 feet of exposure along its eastern park-facing wall.

Starting out at $50 million with Halstead Property in fall 2012, it fell to $45 million last summer. The listing was then taken off the market, only to return at $39 million with Town Residential in September.

The marketing change — and very likely the 22 percent adjustment — has led to multiple showings in the last few weeks, said Patty LaRocco, its Town broker. “There are no offers yet,” Ms. LaRocco said, “but they’re imminent.”

Yet some buildings have their sights set only upward.

At 56 Leonard, the 60-story TriBeCa condo, sales have surpassed expectations, both in velocity and price, said Izak Senbahar, president of the Alexico Group, a co-developer.

In fact, Mr. Senbahar had planned to sell about 5 units a month, but ended up selling about 20, “which is neck-breaking speed,” he said, adding that 9 units were left, out of 145, after 9 months of sales. The prices, which average $3,200 a square foot, have been adjusted 27 times for various units since the sales office opened in the winter, Mr. Senbahar said, but the adjustments have always been increases.

The Rybolovlev effect got to him, too, he said, though he tried to keep prices in check. “If you are too aggressive and make a mistake, a correction might be devastating. You should not fall in love with your project. You should listen to third parties.”

For all the course corrections out there, others believe that the upper limits of the market haven’t been tested yet. And this month, what is believed to be the priciest-ever single-family home hit the New York market. At 447 East 52nd Street, the building, now known as the River Club, is adjacent to the River House. A five-level space that in its current configuration has an indoor swimming pool, a tennis court and a bowling alley — as well as rooms with evocative names like “her, out of season” — is listed at a staggering $130 million.

Despite the bombshell price, the 62,000-square-foot home works out to a relatively tame $2,100 a square foot, said John Burger, the Brown Harris Stevens broker with the listing, who acknowledged that it and other record-seekers were quickly reinventing the market.

“We are in historic territory,” Mr. Burger said. “But Manhattan has become a safe haven in the world for investment in blue-chip real estate. We are confident.”
490 2013-10-20 A look at some resale apartments in white-glove buildings where prices have dropped....
491 2013-10-20 DANIEL RADCLIFFE’S NEXT TRICK IS TO MAKE HARRY POTTER DISAPPEAR

I have only allowed my deep love for Harry Potter to express itself online, in the fan-fiction community. Hounding the regular people who had the fortune and misfortune of putting faces to these beloved characters just seems cruel. Some actor had to be Harry, but that doesn’t mean Daniel Radcliffe should carry the burden of fans’ love for J. K. Rowling’s books for his whole life. And Daniel, as fantastic as your recent work has been: let yourself breathe a little. JESSICA MALORDY, Brooklyn, posted on nytimes.com



Can he do a Wisconsin accent? Based on the photo in the robin’s-egg blazer, he’s a shoo-in for any Paul Ryan biopic. But one hopes Radcliffe’s high-flying career will keep him from careening so low. T.M. ZINNEN, Madison, Wisc., posted on nytimes.com

WHY ARE THERE STILL SO FEW WOMEN IN SCIENCE?

As a moderately successful female Ph.D. astrophysicist, I disagree strongly with what Meg Urry, professor of physics and astronomy at Yale, said in Eileen Pollack’s article about how female scientists in academia are afforded more flexibility in terms of family. There is a biological fact that if you wait until you have tenure to conceive, it may be too late. Having an infant before tenure will take an unequal toll on a woman at a time when she has the least money and control. Academia, once tenure is achieved, is relatively family-friendly, but few get that stability. Many spend years as postdoctoral nomads — not good for an equal professional marriage or kids. To say that law or medicine are just as difficult in this regard is crazy. Those fields are far more tolerant of off-ramping and on-ramping. K.E. SAAVIK FORD, Queens, posted on nytimes.com

Pollack wonders why more women don’t pursue science. The answer: Money. The student population at most medical schools is about half-female. These smart women most likely concluded that they would earn far more practicing medicine than wearing out their senses in a research lab. Plus they would have greater control of their lives. A career in science involves huge trade-offs. There’s competition for limited research positions and grants, endless laborious tasks and deep subject immersion often to the exclusion of a meaningful relationship. Smart women have the opportunities, science or not, and they have made their choice. TOM PAINE, Charleston, S.C., posted on nytimes.com

My Ph.D. is in molecular biology, and this year I’m applying for faculty jobs and expecting my first child. I think the issue for female scientists is more one of infrastructural problems than one of bias. I’ve had supportive advisers, both male and female, in my career. There are inevitable practical problems to being a successful scientist and a mother simultaneously. Most scientists have not needed lactation rooms or affordable day care nearby or a carefully formed plan to maintain productivity through maternity leave. Only a larger investment in family-supportive infrastructure at more institutions will make academic science less difficult for scientists who want to have families. AW, California, posted on nytimes.com
492 2013-10-20 None of that research yet translates into an objective diagnostic approach, however. Before I received my diagnosis, I spent multiple sessions with a psychologist who interviewed me and my husband, took a health history from my doctor and administered several intelligence tests. That’s not the norm, though, and not only because I was given my diagnosis as an adult. Most children are given the diagnosis on the basis of a short visit with their pediatrician. In fact, the diagnosis can be as simple as prescribing to a child and telling the parents to see if it helps improve their school performance.

This lack of rigor leaves room for plenty of diagnoses that are based on something other than biology. Case in point: The beginning of A.D.H.D. as an “epidemic” corresponds with a couple of important policy changes that incentivized diagnosis. The incorporation of A.D.H.D. under the Individuals With Disabilities Education Act in 1991 — and a subsequent overhaul of the in 1997 that allowed drug companies to more easily market directly to the public — were hugely influential, according to Adam Rafalovich, a sociologist at Pacific University in . For the first time, the diagnosis came with an upside — access to tutors, for instance, and time allowances on standardized tests. By the late 1990s, as more parents and teachers became aware that A.D.H.D. existed, and that there were drugs to treat it, the diagnosis became increasingly normalized, until it was viewed by many as just another part of the experience of childhood.

Stephen Hinshaw, a professor of psychology at , has found another telling correlation. Hinshaw was struck by the disorder’s uneven geographical distribution. In 2007, 15.6 percent of kids between the ages of 4 and 17 in had at some point received an A.D.H.D. diagnosis. In , that number was 6.2 percent. This disparity between the two states is representative of big differences, generally speaking, in the rates of diagnosis between the South and West. Even after Hinshaw’s team accounted for differences like race and income, they still found that kids in North Carolina were nearly twice as likely to be given diagnoses of A.D.H.D. as those in California.

Hinshaw, as well as sociologists like Rafalovich and Peter Conrad of Brandeis University, argues that such numbers are evidence of sociological influences on the rise in A.D.H.D. diagnoses. In trying to narrow down what those influences might be, Hinshaw evaluated differences between diagnostic tools, types of , cultural values and public perceptions of mental illness. Nothing seemed to explain the difference — until he looked at educational policies.

The , signed into law by President , was the first federal effort to link school financing to standardized-test performance. But various states had been slowly rolling out similar policies for the last three decades. North Carolina was one of the first to adopt such a program; California was one of the last. The correlations between the implementation of these laws and the rates of A.D.H.D. diagnosis matched on a regional scale as well. When Hinshaw compared the rollout of these school policies with incidences of A.D.H.D., he found that when a state passed laws punishing or rewarding schools for their standardized-test scores, A.D.H.D. diagnoses in that state would increase not long afterward. Nationwide, the rates of A.D.H.D. diagnosis increased by 22 percent in the first four years after No Child Left Behind was implemented.

To be clear: Those are correlations, not causal links. But A.D.H.D., education policies, disability protections and advertising freedoms all appear to wink suggestively at one another. From parents’ and teachers’ perspectives, the diagnosis is considered a success if the medication improves kids’ ability to perform on tests and calms them down enough so that they’re not a distraction to others. (In some school districts, an A.D.H.D. diagnosis also results in that child’s test score being removed from the school’s official average.) Writ large, Hinshaw says, these incentives conspire to boost the diagnosis of the disorder, regardless of its biological prevalence.

Rates of A.D.H.D. diagnosis also vary widely from country to country. In 2003, when nearly 8 percent of American kids had been given a diagnosis of A.D.H.D., only about 2 percent of children in had. According to the British National Health Service, the estimate of kids affected by A.D.H.D. there is now as high as 5 percent. Why would Britain have such a comparatively low incidence of the disorder? But also, why is that incidence on the rise?

Conrad says both questions are linked to the different ways our societies define disorders. In the United States, we base those definitions on the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (D.S.M.), while Europeans have historically used the International Classification of Diseases (I.C.D.). “The I.C.D. has much stricter guidelines for diagnosis,” Conrad says. “But, for a variety of reasons, the D.S.M. has become more widely used in more places.” Conrad, who’s currently researching the spread of A.D.H.D. diagnosis rates, believes that America is essentially exporting the D.S.M. definition and the medicalized response to it. A result, he says, is that “now we see higher and higher prevalence rates outside the United States.”

According to Joel Nigg, professor of psychiatry at Oregon Health and Science University, this is part of a broader trend in America: the medicalization of traits that previous generations might have dealt with in other ways. Schools used to punish kids who wouldn’t sit still. Today we tend to see those kids as needing therapy and medicine. When people don’t fit in, we react by giving their behavior a label, either medicalizing it, criminalizing it or moralizing it, Nigg says.

For some kids, getting medicine might be a better outcome than being labeled a troublemaker. But of course there are also downsides, especially when there are so many incentives encouraging overdiagnosis. Medicalization can hurt people just as much as moralizing can. Not so long ago, homosexuality was officially considered a mental illness. And in a remarkable bit of societal , the diagnosis of drapetomania was used to explain why black slaves would want to escape to freedom.

Today many sociologists and neuroscientists believe that regardless of A.D.H.D.’s biological basis, the explosion in rates of diagnosis is caused by sociological factors — especially ones related to education and the changing expectations we have for kids. During the same 30 years when A.D.H.D. diagnoses increased, American childhood drastically changed. Even at the grade-school level, kids now have more homework, less recess and a lot less unstructured free time to relax and play. It’s easy to look at that situation and speculate how “A.D.H.D.” might have become a convenient societal catchall for what happens when kids are expected to be miniature adults. High-stakes standardized testing, increased competition for slots in top colleges, a less-and-less accommodating economy for those who don’t get into colleges but can no longer depend on the existence of blue-collar jobs — all of these are expressed through policy changes and cultural expectations, but they may also manifest themselves in more troubling ways — in the rising number of kids whose behavior has become pathologized.
493 2013-10-21 The Yankees’ hierarchy opened its annual organizational meetings Monday, the same day the team said most of its full season-ticket license prices would stay the same, and some would even decrease....
494 2013-10-21 A survey by the Pew Research Center finds more people know about online health insurance exchanges, but most people are not buying yet....
495 2013-10-21 Rob Gregory joined WhoSay, New York, in a new post, chief revenue officer. He had most recently been president at the Newsweek Daily Beast Company, New York, part of IAC/InterActiveCorp.

Hitchcock Fleming & Associates, Akron, Ohio, hired six people. They are Jude Anderson, a project coordinator; Dawn Burdecki, who joins as an integrated marketing specialist; Angela Dublikar, an account manager; Jonas Fortenberry, a senior account manager; Caitlin Kelley, a research coordinator; and Alyssa Trowbridge, a project coordinator.

Intela, London, a data and e-mail services business, was acquired by XL Marketing, New York. Financial terms were not disclosed. The Intela data and customer acquisition operations will be merged with Virtuoso Advertising, the British subsidiary of XL Marketing, to form XL Marketing Europe, based in London. And the Intela e-mail business in the United States will be merged with the XL Marketing e-mail services division, which includes ZetaMail.

Andy Jolls joined uSamp, Los Angeles, in a new post, senior vice president for marketing. He had been senior vice president for consumer marketing at Zumbox, Los Angeles.

JWT New York, part of the JWT unit of WPP, hired four executives for new posts. Sherri Chambers joins as global business director; she had been group brand director at 72andSunny, Los Angeles, part of MDC Partners. Robert Frost joins as executive creative director; he had been senior vice president and group creative director at Deutsch New York, part of the Deutsch division of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Bryan Gaffin joins as group creative director; he had been at Rapp, New York, part of the Omnicom Group, working on the Hewlett-Packard and Viagra accounts. And Kimberly Samskin-Barger joins as a creative director; she had been lead creative on two American Express accounts at Digitas, part of the Publicis Groupe.

Sam Kelly, director for international business development at AKQA, based in London, was promoted to a new post, head of business development and marketing. AKQA is part of WPP.

Milton Lebron rejoined República, Miami, in a new post, vice president for creative. He had been an associate creative director at Roundarch Isobar, New York, part of the Dentsu Aegis Network division of Dentsu.

Jeff Maerov joined DigitasLBi, Boston, part of the Publicis Groupe, in a new post, senior vice president and group creative director. He had most recently been group creative director at Draftfcb Orange County, which is the Irvine, Calif., office of Draftfcb, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Tim McKee joined the New York office of CKSK in a new post, partner and executive creative director. He had most recently run his own company, OnePlusInfinity, and before that worked at agencies that included Atmosphere Proximity, Chopping Block and WDDG.

Romy Mehlman joined Lucky Strike Entertainment, Los Angeles, in a new post, vice president for marketing. She had most recently been vice president for worldwide theatrical research for Disney live action and Marvel films at the Walt Disney Studios, part of the Walt Disney Company.

Chris Meyer rejoined George P. Johnson, Auburn Hills, Mich., part of Project WorldWide, as chief executive. He succeeds Jeff Rutchik, who is retiring, the agency said. Mr. Meyer had been executive vice president for enterprise business development at Inxpo, Chicago. Also, Denise Wong, executive vice president for growth and business development at Johnson, was promoted to a new post, president.

Sanjay Nazerali joined the London office of Carat Global in a new post, chief strategy officer. He had been global director for marketing, communications and audiences at the British Broadcasting Corporation. Carat is part of Aegis Media unit of the Dentsu Aegis Network, a division of Dentsu.

Noble Biomaterials, Scranton, Pa., selected Mamus Creative, Northport, N.Y., as its agency of record. Billings were not disclosed. The assignment had previously been handled by various local agencies on a project basis.

Lori Norian joined Matrixx Initiatives, Bridgewater, N.J., as vice president of marketing for the Zicam brand. She succeeds Leslie Molloy, who left, the company said, to pursue other opportunities. Ms. Norian had most recently been senior marketing manager for the Hellmann’s brand at the Englewood Cliffs, N.J., office of Unilever.

Killian Schaffer joined the Chicago office of Havas Discovery in a new post, managing director for customer relationship management. He will also work with agency teams in Baltimore and Richmond, Va., as well as consulting with other North American offices. Mr. Schaffer had been vice president and strategy director for customer relationship management at Cramer-Krasselt, Chicago.

Ken Stempler joined Moasis, San Francisco, as chief revenue officer, becoming the company’s first full-time person in that post; Moasis had previously used a consultant who served as interim chief revenue officer. Mr. Stempler has worked for companies that include Mobile Posse and Telenav.

Sub Rosa, New York, hired two employees for new posts. David Bias becomes studio director; he had been vice president at the Impossible Project. And Josh Davis becomes interactive director in residence; he had been a creative director for physical installations at Code and Theory.

Tim Sutton joined Redscout, New York, part of MDC Partners, in a new post, group strategy director. He had most recently been an innovative director at Fahrenheit 212, New York.

Jerry Thompson joined Marc U.S.A., Pittsburgh, in a new post, executive vice president and director for public relations. He had been a partner and senior counselor at Ketchum, part of the Omnicom Group, leading the Ketchum Energy worldwide energy industry consulting group.

Young & Laramore, Indianapolis, hired three employees. They are Sarah Holcombe, a writer; Taylor Schaffer, a brand action specialist; and Sara Walker, an assistant account manager.
496 2013-10-21 Have you ever gotten tripped up by a lien? What was your experience and how did you handle it?...
497 2013-10-21 The individuals were notified last week by Britain’s Serious Fraud Office that they were being investigated....
498 2013-10-21 Fastest-growing small businesses. The “sharing economy.” Why the wedding business is booming in New Jersey....
499 2013-10-21 The New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq both have said they would accept a structure in which Alibaba’s founders and top executives would nominate a majority of board members....
500 2013-10-21 Reports on the relatively high cost of lattes for Chinese consumers fails to ignite outrage....
501 2013-10-21 In August, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel announced that the Defense Department would begin offering full spousal and family benefits, including health care coverage, housing allowances and survivor benefits, to the same-sex spouses of military personnel. In doing so he swiftly aligned the military with the Supreme Court’s ruling in June striking down the Defense of Marriage Act’s denial of federal marriage benefits to lawfully married same-sex couples.

National Guard units in four states — Texas, Mississippi, Louisiana and Oklahoma — have, however, refused to process applications by same-sex couples in a convenient and respectful manner. To register for benefits and obtain the identification card needed for programs and services at the Guard member’s home base, spouses are being told they must travel to federal military installations sometimes located a long distance away. This unfair procedural obstacle could delay important military benefits — or even make them unattainable, depending on how far the states take their discriminatory policy.

There is no valid basis for this treatment. The guard units say they are merely adhering to state constitutions that ban same-sex marriages and do not recognize same-sex marriages lawfully performed in other states. But state bans cannot pre-empt a lawful Defense Department order based on a Supreme Court ruling. Under the Constitution’s supremacy clause, federal law takes precedence.

Further, it is hard to see how state law comes into the picture. The application forms are provided by the federal government and are processed by federal employees on federal computer systems. And while state governors ordinarily exercise control over their units, the National Guard is officially part of the United States Army and Air Force. Its members are subject to call by the president, and nearly all its funding is from the federal government.

For all these reasons, states “cannot choose to ignore” Mr. Hagel’s order, a point made in a Sept. 30 letter to the secretary from the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Carl Levin of Michigan, and the ranking Democrat on the House Armed Services Committee, Adam Smith of Washington.

They offered as an example the case of Judith Chedville, a veteran of the Iraq war, and her wife, Alicia Butler. They were told by their local National Guard office in Austin, Tex., that they needed to apply for benefits at the nearest federal base at Fort Hood, about 90 miles away. It was a humiliating message that points to a discriminatory culture.
502 2013-10-21 The mass arrests, which gave rise to a class action civil rights lawsuit and a long-running court battle exploring whether social media messages are public or private, created a logistical challenge. Defendants attended a special trial part run by a single judge that was created solely to handle Occupy cases.

Even before the bridge march, the district attorney had established a new post, mass arrest coordinator, assisted by three prosecutors and four paralegals, said Karen Friedman Agnifilo, executive assistant district attorney and chief of the trial division. Those lawyers handled the Brooklyn Bridge cases, even those in which only summonses were issued.

The aim, Ms. Friedman Agnifilo said, was to provide the same level of due process in every case. She said that prosecutors scrutinized arrest paperwork and police videos, sometimes questioning officers who appeared in photographs to determine whether specific protesters had been warned not to go onto the roadway.

“We looked at every single case individually and would prosecute if we had a provable case,” she said.

Ultimately, cases turned on whether it could be shown that defendants knew they were breaking the law. In one case, a man who was videotaped asking a captain what charges he would face was ultimately convicted. And although a police captain issued a warning through a megaphone, many said it was unintelligible. In dozens of other cases, prosecutors asked that they be dismissed when arresting officers could not identify defendants or testify about their actions.

The vast caseload was also unusual for members of the National Lawyers Guild, said Ben Meyers, who served as the group’s mass defense office coordinator, a position that was created after the bridge arrests.

Mr. Meyers said that 45 volunteer lawyers represented 662 defendants without charge, with most lawyers taking up to 10 cases and some taking as many as 50 or over 100. Collectively, he said, those lawyers made about 1,500 appearances during 87 court dates.

The arrests quickly became a flash point: protesters said that the police led them to believe that they could walk on the roadway; police officials strongly denied that. And both police and protesters pointed to videos to support their accounts.

Three days after the arrests, the Partnership for Civil Justice Fund filed a lawsuit in Federal District Court in Manhattan saying that those arrested had been entrapped. Judge Jed S. Rakoff later excluded the City of New York, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly from the case but allowed it to proceed against officers at the scene because, he said, the police did not adequately warn protesters before arresting them.

Another continuing case stems from a subpoena that prosecutors sent to Twitter, asking for three months of messages from one man arrested on the bridge, Malcolm Harris. Prosecutors argued that the Twitter posts could show that he knew going onto the roadway was a violation.

Mr. Harris opposed the subpoena, saying that it violated his privacy and infringed on his First and Fourth Amendment rights. A judge later ruled against Mr. Harris because he had agreed to let Twitter publicly distribute his messages.

Mr. Harris pleaded guilty to disorderly conduct before the messages were handed over, and then appealed the order to produce them in State Supreme Court. His lawyer, Martin R. Stolar, said the issue had far-reaching implications for social media users whose communications are stored not in a desk drawer or file cabinet but in an electronic cloud maintained by others.

“So many people are using the cloud,” he said. “All this data is up there and who owns it?”
503 2013-10-21 “I got scared,” she said, noting that her creditors “threatened that they were going to take me to court.”

But as her case was nearing conclusion, her landlord stepped in with an offer to buy her rent-stabilized lease and produce the funds to pay off her debt. (Mrs. Santiago’s landlord is not among her creditors, but he was notified of the bankruptcy as a matter of course.) The bankruptcy trustee in charge of marshaling her assets accepted the offer, and that decision, challenged by Mrs. Santiago’s lawyers, has been upheld by both a bankruptcy court and a Federal District Court.

In New York City, there were 11,500 individual bankruptcy filings in the 12 months ending June 30, federal bankruptcy court figures show. How many of them involved people with rent-stabilized leases is not tracked by the court.

Rent stabilization laws, a defining element of New York real estate for decades, limit rent increases and allow automatic lease renewals and even survivor’s rights to tenants. In recent years, rent-stabilized leases have been deemed assets in some bankruptcy proceedings.

Now, for the first time, a federal appeals court is being asked to weigh in. The widow’s lawyers argue that a rent-stabilized lease is a public assistance benefit, just like Social Security or disability payments, and should be exempt from the bankruptcy estate. Treating it like an asset, the lawyers said in court documents, undermines the intent of rent-stabilization laws in New York designed to protect tenants deemed in need of assistance with housing.

“This is not what bankruptcy is about,” said Kathleen G. Cully, one of Mrs. Santiago two pro bono lawyers. “What’s next? Are they going to start going after food stamps?”

The case, Mary Veronica Santiago-Monteverde v. John S. Pereira, has drawn the interest of bankruptcy experts and legal aid lawyers who see it as a threat to the housing stability of many low-income New Yorkers. Mrs. Santiago’s case was argued before the appeals court last month by Ronald J. Mann, a law professor at and a bankruptcy specialist who has argued cases before the United States Supreme Court.

New York’s unique rent laws and expensive real estate market make a rent-stabilized lease particularly prized. In New York City, 44 percent of the rental units are rent-stabilized and an additional 2 percent are governed by the more restrictive rent-control regulations, according to figures from the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at . At least 2.2 million people live in more than a million rent-regulated units in the city, the center said.

Legal aid lawyers who are also watching the Santiago case say the rent laws are essential to help maintain affordable housing in the city — the median income for rent-stabilized tenants is $37,000, compared with $52,260 for market-rate tenants, figures from the city’s Housing and Vacancy Survey show. Some bankruptcy lawyers say they are advising clients with rent-stabilized leases not to file for Chapter 7 bankruptcy or risk being left homeless.

“It’s an unfair money-grab,” said David B. Shaev, the New York state chairman of the National Association of Consumer Bankruptcy Attorneys. “To remove this foundation, this safety net, it’s unconscionable.”

The trustee in Mrs. Santiago’s case, Mr. Pereira, has an obligation to marshal all assets to get her debt paid, said his lawyer, J. David Dantzler Jr. (The trustees, who are not government employees, receive a commission on the assets they are able to gather.) He said that New York law did not intend for leases to be exempt from bankruptcy estates and that any change to that effect should be left up to the state’s lawmakers.

“This is about a fear of what could happen in the future to other tenants in rent-stabilization apartments,” he said. “Our view is that that’s a question for the New York Legislature, not the courts.”

But no one should think that bankruptcy is a painless process, he said. “If you file for bankruptcy, there are consequences.”

The trustee in Mrs. Santiago’s case has proposed an arrangement in which the landlord would pay her debt, pay the trustee and his lawyer, and allow Mrs. Santiago to live out her years in her apartment at a similar rent under a non-rent-stabilized lease “with no succession rights” that could otherwise have allowed her to pass the apartment on to her 50-year-old son, a personal trainer who lives with her and helps support her.

In the realm of consumer bankruptcies, Mrs. Santiago’s is small. She owes mostly credit card companies, she said in an interview. But after her husband, Hector Santiago, died in 2011 she could not keep up with the payments.

The couple moved into their ground-floor apartment in a five-story brick building on East Seventh Street in 1963. Mr. Santiago was the superintendent of their building and of several others in the neighborhood.

The landlord is a limited-liability company whose owner, James V. Guarino, referred questions to his lawyer. The lawyer, Lawrence M. Gottlieb, said in an e-mail that the company “has no intentions of selling the lease or dispossessing Ms. Santiago or renting out the unit for market rent.”

At home, in the cluttered apartment where her family has celebrated weddings, birthdays and holidays, and where her ill husband died at age 80, Mrs. Santiago said she regretted filing for bankruptcy. Her lawyers have reassured her that she has a good chance of prevailing, but first thing every morning, Mrs. Santiago said, she checks her front door for an eviction notice.

“I’m afraid to find a white paper on my door,” she said with her head down, tearing up as she tugged at the edges of her plastic-covered chair.
504 2013-10-21 Even as downloads decline, however, some experts say that rapidly growing income from streaming may finally help turn the overall industry toward positive results. Last year, streaming and subscription services generated $1.03 billion in revenue, up 59 percent from the year before, according to the Recording Industry Association of America, and many of these providers are reporting robust growth this year.

Whether streaming has had any demonstrable effect on sales remains intensely debated, though. Do Spotify and YouTube, which let users choose the songs they play, cannibalize sales, or lead listeners to songs they may buy later? And do Pandora and other radiolike providers — Apple introduced a similar feature, iTunes Radio, last month — compete with sales at all, or just with radio?

“We just don’t know that consumers are abandoning one to go to the other,” said David Bakula, a senior analyst at Nielsen.

Some experts also point to the rise of Android devices as a possible factor in the drop in downloads. While phones using Google’s operating system now represent a majority of sales, Google’s Play store remains eclipsed by iTunes, by far the dominant music retailer.

Some research also suggests that Android users may spend less money on music than Apple customers. The NPD Group, a market research firm, reported this year that 54 percent of iPhone users — whose operating system is iOS — said in a survey that they were likely to buy music, compared with 30 percent for Android customers.

“As Android expands its market, and if Android users are less likely than iOS users to pay for music, we should expect to see evidence of changes in digital sales,” said Glenn Peoples, the senior editorial analyst at Billboard.

No publicly available sales data directly supports this premise, however, and others dispute it. Mr. Bakula, the Nielsen analyst, said that “whether or not Android users download less than iOS users, there’s no reason to think that that is having any impact on year-over-year sales.”

Whatever the reason for the decline in downloads, many analysts and executives say they are bullish on the industry’s prospects, largely because of the rise of streaming.

“A variety of access models are collectively generating a healthy amount of revenue for labels and artists,” said Jonathan Lamy, a spokesman for the recording industry association. “We’ve still got a ways to go, but when you add up revenues from all of these models, in the aggregate, they represent real revenues now and prospects for a bright future.”
505 2013-10-21 ■ Charlie Fiordalis joined Media Storm, New York, part of the Water Cooler Group, as managing director for digital, leading the digital practice. He succeeds Julie Diffenbach, who is now director for integrated marketing. Mr. Fiordalis most recently was executive director for client services at the New York office of Organic, part of the Omnicom Group.

■ Carter Brokaw joined Guardian U.S., New York, part of The Guardian, as executive vice president for sales, a new post. He had been chief revenue officer at Slacker, the interactive radio service.

■ Amy Churgin joined Traditional Home magazine, part of the Meredith Corporation, as publisher, based in New York, succeeding Beth Fuchs Brenner, who left to join the revived version of Domino as chief revenue officer. Ms. Churgin had been president and chief executive at Executive Coaching and before that worked for many years at the Condé Nast division of Advance Publications in posts that included publisher of Architectural Digest magazine.

■ Two film stars will appear in new campaigns for banks. Robert De Niro is to appear in commercials, scheduled to begin on Oct. 28, that are part of a campaign to rebrand the Sovereign bank in the United States with the name of its Spanish parent, Santander. The campaign, which began on Thursday, also includes print, radio, outdoor and digital ads and carries the theme “A bank for your ideas”; the creative agency is Arnold Worldwide in Boston, part of Havas. Also, Samuel L. Jackson will begin on Monday to appear in ads for the new Quicksilver cash-back credit card from Capital One. The selection of Mr. Jackson to ask the question familiar of viewers of Capital One ads, “What’s in your wallet?” is meant to evoke the provocative wallet scene with Mr. Jackson and Tim Roth in the film “Pulp Fiction.” The Capital One campaign is being created by the Chicago office of DDB Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group; commercials with Alec Baldwin for the Capital One Venture credit card will continue to run.

■ Lee Sherman opened the Persona Company, Seattle, a social media technology company, where he is chief executive. He most recently held senior posts at the Seattle office of Razorfish, part of the Publicis Groupe, that included president and president for Asian-Pacific operations. Persona will offer consumers a service meant to help them monitor their reputations in social media.

■ Pod Design, Lexington, Mass., was acquired by Connelly Partners, Boston. Financial terms were not disclosed. Pod Design will become the Pod/CP Branded Entertainment division of Connelly. It is the second acquisition by Connelly since August, when the agency bought ISM, Boston, which became the ISM/CP Travel and Lifestyle Group division of Connelly.

■ Two legacy media companies — the Comedy Central cable channel, part of Viacom, and the NBCUniversal division of Comcast — revamped last week in ways that reflect the growing importance of new media. Comedy Central changed its internal organizational structure to erase the line between linear and digital operations. NBCUniversal rearranged its advertising sales operations to erase the line between broadcast and cable properties, asking employees to sell commercial time based on four content areas: entertainment, live programming, lifestyle and digital video. The changes at NBCUniversal came after its NBC broadcast division and cable channels were sold together to advertisers during the 2013-14 upfront market.

■ Omnicom Group, New York, and the Publicis Groupe, Paris, will set up a committee composed of senior managers of both agency holding groups to oversee the integration of Omnicom and Publicis as their merger plans proceed. John D. Wren, chief executive at Omnicom, and Maurice Lévy, chairman and chief executive at Publicis, are to lead the committee. The merger is expected to close in the first quarter of 2014.

■ National cable channels sold a record $10.2 billion worth of commercial time during the “upfronts” that took place before the start of the 2013-14 television season, according to the Cabletelevision Advertising Bureau, New York. The total represented an increase of 4.3 percent from the $9.8 billion taken in during the 2012-13 upfronts, the organization said, and it was the first time the total surpassed $10 billion.

■ Although the upfront market ahead of the 2013-14 season has concluded, other media companies continue to make upfront presentations, hoping to capitalize on the attention received during the upfronts by cable channels, broadcast networks and online video companies. The Hearst Magazines division of the Hearst Corporation held what it called its first “magfront,” at which executives disclosed plans that included increases in the circulation rate bases for five magazines; a number of new events and conferences sponsored by magazines like Cosmopolitan and Food Network Magazine; and a video issue of Elle magazine. They also announced that a coming magazine venture with Dr. Mehmet Oz would be titled Dr. Oz The Good Life. Also, NCC Media — owned by Comcast, Cox Communications and Time Warner Cable — is hosting upfront presentations in six cities, including Chicago, Los Angeles and New York, at which executives are discussing a new brand for video offerings, NCC Digital Video.

■ Nestlé USA, part of Nestlé, has bought a Super Bowl commercial for the first time, purchasing a spot to run during Super Bowl XLVIII on Feb. 2, 2014, that will promote a new variety of Butterfinger candy, Butterfinger Peanut Butter Cup. Commercial time during the game, to be broadcast by Fox, is almost sold out; other sponsors will include Anheuser-Busch, Chevrolet, Dannon Oikos yogurt, Hyundai Motor America and Intuit.
506 2013-10-21 Onstage, a red papier-mâché cow stomps on the peasant girl’s foot. Another scene features lively folk dancing by the same crowd that later turns into soccer hooligans blowing vuvuzelas, waving Hungarian flags and calling for retribution against the Jews. After that, the 19th-century Hungarian statesman Lajos Kossuth arrives out of the past, singing in a deep bass-baritone: “I am ashamed by the anti-Semitic agitation; as a Hungarian, I feel repentant toward it, as a patriot, I scorn it.”

In an interview this month, Mr. Fischer said that he had long wanted to write an opera based on the case, but it was the rise of Jobbik that spurred him to action.

“In the last one or two years, it came up to me, and I thought, ‘Now I have to write it,’ ” Mr. Fischer said as he sat in the study of his airy home here, near a grand piano and a wall of books in many languages — an island of cosmopolitanism in a country increasingly turning inward.

“Culture shouldn’t be interested in day-to-day politics,” said Mr. Fischer, who has also been the principal conductor of the Washington National Symphony Orchestra. “We want to be valid next year and the year after. But I think culture has a strong responsibility to find the essence, the real concealed truth which lies behind the day to day.”

Today, that picture shows Mr. Orban subtly courting voters on the far right, hoping to preserve his majority in elections scheduled for next spring. This has contributed to a climate in which, as part of more generalized criticism against foreign forces — especially the European Union and the International Monetary Fund — it has become acceptable public discourse to blame Jews for the country’s economic problems. Last year, Imre Kertesz, Hungary’s Nobel Laureate novelist, compared Mr. Orban to the Pied Piper and said democracy had never fully taken root in Hungary. That same year, Mr. Schiff, a renowned pianist, stirred debate when he said he would not set foot in his native Hungary while Mr. Orban was still in power.

Mr. Fischer, who is Jewish, said he doesn’t feel the same way and is dedicated to the Budapest Festival Orchestra, which receives funds from the government. Still, he has moved his family to Berlin, commuting to remain part of the conversation in Hungary.

The blood libel, known as the Tiszaeszlár (tea-sa-ESS-lar) affair, after the eastern Hungarian town where it took place, is well known in Hungary. Last year, a member of Parliament from Jobbik urged lawmakers to reopen the case, in which the Jews were eventually acquitted of the girl’s death.

He was roundly condemned. Indeed, the Orban government has taken pains to separate itself from Jobbik. “There is no cooperation or partnership with Jobbik, and its support is not required for any decision in Parliament,” a government spokesman, Ferenc Kumin, wrote in an e-mail.

The rise of the far right also comes amid a significant Jewish revival in Hungary since the fall of the Berlin Wall. This month, Hungary’s deputy prime minister said in Parliament that Hungarians must accept responsibility for the Holocaust. Next year, Hungary plans to dedicate millions of dollars for programs commemorating the 70th anniversary of the deportation of Hungarian Jews.

Mr. Fischer said he welcomed the steps but wished the government would go further, “to isolate themselves from everything that the far-right does.” As part of a family-values campaign, in the past two years, Jobbik politicians have publicly ridiculed Mr. Alfoldi in Parliament for being gay. He was ousted as director of the National Theater last summer, replaced by a director closer to the government.

While Mr. Fischer is better known abroad than at home, Mr. Alfoldi has become something of a national hero. Before his ouster, Mr. Alfoldi’s productions, from revamped Hungarian classics to Tony Kushner’s “Angels in America,” had been so popular that people camped out all night for tickets. He is now starring on television in the Hungarian version of “The X-Factor,” which he said averages 2.5 million viewers in a country of 10 million.

A speech he delivered this month in Vienna about the role of culture in a democracy was widely republished and debated in the Hungarian press.

In an interview here, Mr. Alfoldi touched on its themes. “I am not what the government thinks a Hungarian citizen ought to be,” he said. “According to them, a good citizen ought to be Christian, heterosexual, have more than one kid; he should not have a critical attitude and should believe in the past.”

He added: “A citizen should not ask questions either. But I think it is the job of a theater director, especially the job of the director of the National Theater, to ask questions, and to ask questions that are important for the whole society,”

Hungary has a vocal civil society. Since 2011, thousands have taken to the streets to protest the government’s changes to the constitution and its new media law. Journalists and analysts say that the changes have not stifled free speech but are a potential threat — a weapon the government could use if it decided to. The result has been self-censorship. (The government denies that the law represses free speech.)

After the performance of “The Red Heifer,” audience members debated its impact. “If 700 or 800 people see this opera, it will have no effect,” said Josef Janos. A friend, Katalin Patkos, chimed in. “We shouldn’t be so pessimistic,” she said. “It’s a contribution. How effective a contribution, that isn’t Fischer’s problem.”
507 2013-10-21 Britain has already paid compensation over the abolition of the slave trade once — but to slave owners, not their victims. Britain transported more than three million Africans across the Atlantic, and the impact of the trade was vast. Historians estimate that in the Victorian era, between one-fifth and one-sixth of all wealthy Britons derived at least some of their fortunes from the slave economy.

Yet the issue of apologies — let alone reparations — for the actions of long-dead leaders and generals remains a touchy one all over the globe. Turkey refuses to take particular responsibility for the mass deaths of Armenians under the Ottoman Empire, let alone call the event a genocide, as the French Parliament has done. It was not until 1995 that France’s president at the time, Jacques Chirac, apologized for the crimes against the Jews of the Vichy government. The current French president, François Hollande, conceded last year that France’s treatment of Algeria, its former colony, was “brutal and unfair.” But he did not go so far as to apologize.

His predecessor, Nicolas Sarkozy, offered an aid and debt-cancellation package to Haiti in 2010 while acknowledging the “wounds of colonization.”

In Britain, in 1997, Mr. Blair described the potato famine in Ireland in the late 1840s as “something that still causes pain as we reflect on it today,” but suffering pain is not the same thing as making a formal apology.

For some, such comments do not go far enough, particularly when some European nations, like postwar Germany, have apologized —   former Chancellor Willy Brandt went to his knees at the Warsaw Ghetto in 1970 — and paid reparations for Nazi crimes.

Caribbean nations argue that their brutal past continues, to some extent, to enslave them today.

“Our constant search and struggle for development resources is linked directly to the historical inability of our nations to accumulate wealth from the efforts of our peoples during slavery and colonialism,” said Baldwin Spencer, prime minister of Antigua and Barbuda, in July this year. Reparations, he said, must be directed toward repairing the damage inflicted by slavery and racism.

Martyn Day, the senior partner at Leigh Day, the London law firm acting for the Caribbean countries, said a case could start next year at the International Court of Justice in The Hague, a tribunal that adjudicates legal disputes among states.

“What happened in the Caribbean and West Africa was so egregious we feel that bringing a case in the I.C.J. would have a decent chance of success,” Mr. Day said. “The fact that you were subjugating a whole class of people in a massively discriminatory way has no parallel.”

Some Caribbean nations have already begun assessing the lasting damage they suffered, including stunted educational and economic opportunities and dietary and health problems, Mr. Day said.

Critics contend that it makes no sense to try to redress wrongs that reach back through the centuries, and that Caribbean countries already receive compensation through development aid.

The legal terrain is not encouraging. Though several American and British companies have apologized for links to slavery, efforts by descendants of 19th-century African-American slaves to seek reparations from corporations in American courts have so far come to little. And, unlike the successful case made in Britain by Kenyans tortured during the Mau Mau uprising, there are no victims of slavery to present in court.

Even that case was disputed initially by a British government worried that it would expose itself to claims from numerous former colonies. And when he agreed to pay compensation, Mr. Hague insisted that it was not a precedent.

Though Parliament abolished the Atlantic slave trade in 1807, the law took years to put into effect. In 1833, Parliament spent £20 million compensating former slave owners — 40 percent of government expenditure that year, according to estimates by Nick Draper of University College, London, who estimates the present-day value at  $21 billion.

Mr. Draper’s work traced recipients of compensation and showed that they included ancestors of the authors Graham Greene and George Orwell, as well as a very distant relative of Prime Minister David Cameron.

But the prospects for a modern-day legal case for reparations by victims are far from clear. Roger O’Keefe, deputy director of the Lauterpacht Center for International Law at Cambridge University, said, “There is not the slightest chance that this case will get anywhere,” describing it as “an international legal fantasy.”

He argues that while the Netherlands and Britain have accepted the court’s jurisdiction in advance, Britain excluded disputes relating to events arising before 1974.

“Reparation may be awarded only for what was internationally unlawful when it was done,” Dr. O’Keefe said, “and slavery and the slave trade were not internationally unlawful at the time the colonial powers engaged in them.”

Even lawyers for the Caribbean countries hint that a negotiated settlement, achieved through public and diplomatic pressure, may be their best hope. “We are saying that, ultimately, historical claims have been resolved politically — although I think we will have a good claim in the I.C.J.,” Mr. Day said.

Mr. Hague’s own views add an intriguing dimension. In his biography of Britain’s most famous abolitionist, William Wilberforce, Mr. Hague highlighted many atrocities of slavery, including a case in 1783 involving a slave ship that ran out of drinking water, prompting its captain to throw 133 slaves overboard so he could claim insurance for lost cargo.

In 2007, on the 200th anniversary of the abolition of the trade, Mr. Hague spoke of his deep regret over “an era in which the sale of men, women and children was carried out lawfully on behalf of this country, and on such a vast scale that it became a large and lucrative commercial enterprise.”

But as foreign secretary, Mr. Hague is opposed to compensation. In a statement, his office said that while Britain “condemns slavery” and is committed to eliminating it where it still exists, “we do not see reparations as the answer.”
508 2013-10-22 WEISSBERG--Marcia. October 19, 2013 in Elizabeth, NJ, daughter of the late Martha Garfinkel and Dr. Marks S. Shaine, the devoted widow of Dr. William W. Weissberg, loving mother of Lynn Weissberg and Dr. Jed Weissberg; devoted mother-in-law of Dr....
509 2013-10-22 Tuesday’s highlights from around the Web include reactions to Apple’s iPad announcement. Plus, a renewed debate over the pronunciation of GIF....
510 2013-10-22 The online archive brings together thousands of manuscript pages relating to Dickinson’s poems....
511 2013-10-22 The in-demand composer, whose opera “Two Boys” had its premiere last night at the Metropolitan Opera, also shares his passion for Singapore, “The Satanic Verses” and more....
512 2013-10-22 Apple’s suite of productivity apps, iWork, has struggled to inflict damage to Microsoft’s Office business. Now, Apple has made it free to anyone who buys its new computing devices....
513 2013-10-22 Follow the Big City Book Club’s discussion of Jonathan Lethem’s “Dissident Gardens.”...
514 2013-10-22 The activist investor has made enormous profits from his year-old bet on Netflix, having disclosed on Tuesday that he has halved his stake to about 4.5 percent....
515 2013-10-22 Selling stock, the author says, would give Netflix cash it could use to pay off obligations, sign more movie deals, keep for a rainy day – or buy back stock should sentiment turn against the company again....
516 2013-10-22 SAC Capital Advisors will close its London office and cut six portfolio management teams in the United States, the hedge fund’s management revealed....
517 2013-10-22 Owner salaries have declined from a year ago — and nearly 15 percent of small-business owners work a second job to make ends meet....
518 2013-10-22 Apple announced an iPad Air, a faster and thinner tablet, and a new Mini that comes with a higher resolution “retina” display....
519 2013-10-22 Microsoft will soon have to integrate Nokia’s devices business, but for now, Nokia is forging ahead with a Windows tablet similar to Microsoft’s Surface 2, which goes on sale today....
520 2013-10-22 “My job is to know at all times what’s happening in every game,” Burke said in a recent interview in the Burke-puter.

Some of his 10 functioning monitors are programmed to split into eight or more miniscreens, and he can record from 28 sources at once. This time of year, he is watching a lot of football. On Oct. 6, he watched the New Orleans Saints versus the Chicago Bears; the Philadelphia Eagles versus the New York Giants; the New England Patriots versus the Cincinnati Bengals; the Baltimore Ravens versus the Miami Dolphins — a dozen N.F.L. games in all — as well as two Major League Baseball games, four Premier League soccer matches and a ragtag assortment of other events, starting at 10 a.m. and finishing at 2 a.m. the next day.

“I am not able to do many other things,” Burke said of his life in general.

To people who follow sports news, Burke is known as the person who helped unmask Manti T’eo’s fake dead girlfriend. But it is his particular talent for GIFs — which he posts on Deadspin, Twitter and his own Web site, 30FPS — for which he is known. Not only are his GIFs considered to be of high quality, but he also seems to have a sixth sense for identifying the exact moments to capture.

“He’s made GIFs the standard for sports highlights,” Mathis-Lilley said.

A GIF, pronounced jif, is a compressed image file format invented in 1987. In the last decade, the animated GIF has become popular. Burke has figured out a way to use it in the service of sports reporting.

“It has to be small, it has to be shared quickly, you want it on Twitter and Tumblr, and he’s great at realizing which moments are best for it, which tiny slices are indicative of something larger,” Mathis-Lilley said.

Burke also posts elegant screen captures, and some video, though he tends to use it sparingly and only in situations that lend themselves to it, like the last, roller-coaster day of the Premier League season earlier this year, or the idiotic reports delivered by some television journalists, as he saw it, during the hunt for a suspect after the Boston Marathon bombing. Video is problematic, though, because most platforms will not support the new technology he likes, and because the N.F.L. periodically issues stern letters to Deadspin’s editors ordering them to take things down.

The league has not made much of a fuss over the animated GIFs, which are perfect at capturing instances of embarrassment and absurdity — a baseball player tumbles over a fence, ESPN’s football score box shows one team leading another by 975 points, a spectator swears or a football player mows down another before the play starts. The charm of animated GIFs is in the content — those clumsy moments captured, and repeated again and again. Unlike videos, which provide a smooth stream of action, a GIF is like a digital flipbook, a choppy rendering that adds to the silliness of what happened in real time.

“Video requires a reader’s intervention to play, whereas a GIF adds itself forcefully,” Burke said.

He added: “It’s an art object. You’re taking this little moment and making it exist in perpetuity, because it constantly loops,” as in a GIF of a fumble by Bears running back Matt Forte.

“A lot of stuff I do here — nobody’s done this stuff,” he said. “How did I learn to do it? I messed around with stuff until I found something that worked.”

To start his day, Burke organizes his desk. He then organizes the games he wants to watch on the various monitors. He makes sure his three Mason jars are filled with water so he will not have to leave the room on the account of thirst. He keeps track of Twitter feeds, Deadspin and breaking news on a monitor he has programmed so he can keep abreast of the many things he needs to keep abreast of.

On one of his computers, he has nine hard drives, which he uses to store the data that he has amassed. He built it himself, “out of components,” he says vaguely.

He starts watching. He fiddles with his monitors. He finds his moments, converts them to GIFs, video snippets and screen capture stills, and feeds them to his colleagues or posts them himself. Since he joined Twitter in 2008, he has written more than 56,650 Twitter posts.

“He’s so encyclopedic,” Mathis-Lilley said. “If you can get something that Tim didn’t pick up, it’s a triumphant moment, kind of like beating the eye in the sky.”

Alone with his equipment, Burke mutters to himself, to his screens and to his colleagues, who cannot hear what he is saying but whose incessant instant messages irritate him, each message announcing itself to the room with the opening tenor guitar chords from Neko Case’s “Stinging Velvet.”

“Those are intrusions into my personal workflow,” he said.

Watching the St. Louis Rams versus the Jacksonville Jaguars, he spots a GIF-able moment.

“I’m doing a GIF of,” he starts to explain, and then is distracted by something happening in the Bengals game. “Andy Dalton, what are you doing!” he says, before finishing his earlier sentence, “an interception in the red zone.”

Eventually, Burke’s wife comes in to gauge his lunchtime mood.

“When do I want lunch?” Burke asks. “Whenever you want lunch is fine.”

“That’s right, hummus,” he says. “Thank you. Where did that interception go?”

This is the way things go in Burke-world. Hurtak, 36, who edits reports for nonprofits and is working on a book about venture philanthropy in Uganda, tries to remain calm.

“I’ve done a lot of personal growth this past year,” she said.

When she met Burke at a party about six years ago, he was 50 pounds lighter; a professor of communications and speech who lectured on media theory; and was working on his dissertation on feminist theory and poker, which he has not finished.

At the same time, he was posting screen captures and clips on the free-for-all Web site 4chan and on Twitter. His contributions attracted the attention of the Web site SportsGrid, where he worked for a time, and finally of Deadspin, which hired him about two years ago.

“It totally changed the site,” said Tommy Craggs, the editor of Deadspin. “He was finding stuff quickly and getting it up fast.”

He mentioned the startling second in the Super Bowl last year when the singer M.I.A. suddenly gave the crowd the finger.

It was a blink-and-you’ll-miss-it moment. “Everybody thought, ‘Wait — did that happen?’ ” Craggs said. “And then there it was on Deadspin.”

The more Burke works, the more Hurtak spends time by herself or with friends. She and Burke play shuffleboard together one night a week, and they take the 12th day of every month off — they got married on Dec. 12, 2012.

They usually eat together, go out to Tampa Bay Rays games and enjoy gardening. Burke’s specialty is growing exotic peppers, and he is partial to his Tabasco-pepper plant. Otherwise, she said, “he doesn’t have time to do anything.”

“I’m very committed to this,” Burke said of his job, “but also I’m always in the house.”

Back at the Burke-puter, Burke notices something that excites him in the Jaguars-Rams game: the broadcaster is showing a picture of a player over the words “Player Name.”

“That’s a problem — his name is not Player Name,” Burke says. “We call this a chyron fail because it was a fail in the chyron,” or the lower explanatory graphics on the screen. Burke first used the term in 2009 when Fox displayed a shot of Tim Tebow but identified him as Khalil El-Amin.

Burke recognizes that his job can seem less serious than it might be, but he said he was performing a kind of metacriticism that was an extension of his old job teaching media theory.

“I’m engaging in the media in a more hands-on way,” he said. “I’m observing through the lens of how I watch it. I know about how the media works, as well as being self-aware that I’m also a member of the media.” His GIFs’ very inanity makes them profound, in a way, he said.

“This is going to sound really pretentious if I give any more value to it, but there’s a reason people like seeing these things,” he said. “I think mundane is human, and we’re capturing people being human, and anytime we can make someone feel smarter — even if it’s vis-à-vis someone else being stupid — that’s something that appeals to people. People like to feel smart.”
521 2013-10-22 Sara Romanoski, who lives in the neighborhood and has been involved with the L.E.S. Dwellers, a community group that opposes the Ludlow House liquor license, remembers being awakened in her apartment on Stanton Street one night by the voice of a man in the street. He was screaming a woman’s name — Emilia, Ms. Romanoski said.

“I could hear him as he went off my block onto Ludlow and around and back,” she said. “It went on for 30 minutes. I can’t imagine any other neighborhood where that is tolerated.”

Scott Cooke, who lives at Rivington and Ludlow Streets, said the traffic patterns that have been imposed to cope with the crowds are inconvenient — the police close down Rivington on weekends, he said. Diem Boyd, who founded L.E.S. Dwellers, said the traffic arrangements encourage bars to “take their party into the street,” an opinion Mr. Cooke echoed as he looked back on how the neighborhood had changed in the eight years since he moved in.

“The city thinks it’s acceptable that they shut the street down on weekends,” he said. “It’s like Bourbon Street. There are no cars on Bourbon Street, people just party in the street. They traverse the street from bar to bar. In the French Quarter, they live in buildings on courtyards. Here, you could lean out the window and they could hand you a drink. It’s bar after bar after bar.”

Ludlow House would be a cousin of Soho House New York, a private club in a former warehouse on Ninth Avenue in the meatpacking district, and similar clubs in Hollywood, Miami, London and Berlin that tend to attract the wealthy and the well known. Some of them, including the one on Ninth Avenue, have guest rooms, but according to what its owners have told community leaders, Ludlow House would not.

It does plan, according to the liquor authority, to have bars on the first and second floors and a rooftop terrace off the fourth floor with “a pizza-and-salad-counter terrace.” In all, there would be 41 tables with 152 seats.

A rooftop terrace is a bad idea in a neighborhood with the density of the Lower East Side, Ms. Boyd said. “It’s three feet from people’s windows,” she said.

But a supporter, Tim Laughlin, the executive director of the Lower East Side Business Improvement District, said Ludlow House would be a place where “people could meet with clients, use a laptop, have lunch meetings, all those things that drive daytime foot traffic that permit our restaurateurs and entrepreneurs to have successful businesses during the day.”

The local community board voted against approving the liquor license in May. In August, Ludlow House was the subject of a “500-foot hearing,” a standard proceeding for an application for an establishment within that distance of three or more existing ones. The administrative law judge who presided over the hearing, Raymond Di Luglio, issued a nine-page report that said, among other things, that the rooftop is “within four and five feet of the windows of at least two apartment tenants.” The liquor authority is expected to make a final decision on the license on Tuesday.

Some opponents are concerned that the Ludlow House application is for a club license, which, under liquor authority rules, could be held only by a nonprofit social club. Ms. Boyd questioned whether Ludlow House would have the same structure as, say, a college club with a charter and bylaws, not to mention tax-exempt status. She also said she was concerned that other bar owners would try to reclassify their operations as social clubs to win licenses.

A spokeswoman for Soho House said by e-mail, “It is still too early for us to offer any details surrounding Ludlow Street. However, we are enthusiastic for the project and look forward to hearing from the State Liquor Authority.”

Ms. Boyd said Ludlow House would make Hell Square more hellish. “It will bring another wave of night life in,” she said, adding that it raised the prospect of establishments that would be more like those in the meatpacking district. “More congestion, more traffic, more pollution.”
522 2013-10-22 The reaction of Walmart, a major customer for Alaskan fisheries, was like a slap in the face. The company, in essence, suggested that Alaska was ducking independent certification of its fishing practices.

Adding injury, Sodexo, a giant food services company that has contracts to supply the military, followed suit, raising the prospect that Alaskan seafood would be supplanted by fish from Russia and other fisheries certified by the stewardship council. Even the National Park Service, whose guidelines called for fish certified by the stewardship council to be served under its jurisdiction, seemed to be abandoning Alaska.

With its $6.4 billion seafood industry under siege, Alaska came out swinging. The industry portrayed itself as a victim of Walmart’s “anti-American purchasing policy” and “foreign” interference in the fishery. (The stewardship council is based in London).

Senator Mark Begich of Alaska, a Democrat and chairman of the subcommittee on fisheries, convened a hearing Sept. 24 to question the companies that were threatening to stop buying Alaskan salmon. The state’s other senator, Lisa Murkowski, a Republican, introduced a bill to prohibit federal agencies from requiring seafood to be certified by any third party.

Since then, the companies appear to have backed down.

While Sodexo has not formally accepted the local industry certification, the company has hinted it is prepared to compromise. Laura Schalk, a spokeswoman in Paris, said on Friday that Alaskan salmon “continues to be on the menu” in Sodexo facilities. A senior Walmart executive testified that the retailer was re-examining its decision and would have a final answer before the end of the year.

Last week, the salmon industry essentially declared victory, saying it would move forward with its own labeling efforts. In a clear swipe at Walmart, the salmon industry urged “the few remaining buyers with M.S.C.-only buying policies to stop swimming against the tide.”

“Alaska has the idea of sustainability built into its constitution,” Senator Begich said in an interview, referring to a provision in the state charter, which says natural resources must be managed on the “sustained yield principle.”

He dismissed the idea that the industry needed more outside oversight, noting that the National Marine Fisheries Service, part of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, closely monitors American fisheries.

Seafood certification programs are meant to reassure consumers that seafood is being watched “from bait to plate.” The stewardship council seeks to ensure the catch is set at levels that keep fish stocks healthy and that there is no significant harm done to other species like seabirds and marine mammals.

But critics argue that many such programs are little more than exercises in “greenwashing,” endorsing dubious environmental claims in exchange for corporate dollars.

The salmon dispute recalls a recent battle over forestry products, which ForestEthics and Greenpeace, two advocacy groups, argued before the Federal Trade Commission. In May, the groups claimed that a certification group originally formed by timber interests, the Sustainable Forestry Initiative, was certifying timber products even when they had been harvested with destructive methods.

Both the stewardship council and Alaska’s homegrown certification cite their reliance on principles developed by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization. Still, critics have expressed skepticism about the new Alaskan standard.

“I’m not really a fan of the M.S.C., but I think everyone would agree that it’s more credible” than the new standard, John Hocevar, ocean campaigns director at Greenpeace, said. “I’m not superimpressed with the idea of the Alaska Seafood Marketing Institute deciding what is and isn’t sustainable.”

By dismissing the stewardship council, the Alaskan industry says it will save money, but neither it nor the council indicate exactly how much. In addition to the cost of certification and the chain of custody audits that are carried out by third-party contractors, the stewardship council charges from about 0.3 to 0.5 percent of the wholesale value of the catch for the right to use its logo, a substantial sum.

Certification costs for the new Alaskan body are similar, according to Tyson Fick, a spokesman for the Alaska Seafood Marketing Institute. There is no charge for the use of the logo, he said.

The stewardship council declined to comment But in an open letter, Kerry Coughlin, the council’s director for the Americas, said the Alaska Seafood Marketing Institute had “attempted to discredit M.S.C. in order to gain acceptance of its own program,” and that critics’ descriptions of its certification costs were “ridiculously inflated.”

John Renner, the operator of two fishing boats and vice president of Cordova District Fishermen United, an Alaskan industry lobbying group, said the council had undercut its own reputation, and thus the value of its seal, by giving the same grade to Russian fisheries as those in Alaska.

“That gives them the M.S.C. logo and puts them on the same footing in the market as us,” he said, even though the Russian fishery was in worse shape, and Russian boats faced vastly lower labor and regulatory costs.

Mr. Renner said Alaskans “don’t take kindly to outsiders coming in to tell us what is and isn’t sustainable.” If the stewardship council wants to manage something, he said, “tell them to go manage Atlantic salmon.”
523 2013-10-22 Peking University’s decision last week to dismiss Professor Xia Yeliang, an economist and advocate of the free market, is making news around the world. The dismissal could hurt Peking University’s connections with American and European universities, and tarnish its reputation. In the spirit of academic freedom, universities that have collaborative relations with Peking University — Stanford, Cornell, Yale, the London School of Economics and many others — should be putting pressure on China’s leading university to reinstate Mr. Xia.

In September, 130 faculty members at Wellesley College urged in a letter to the president of Peking University not to fire Mr. Xia “based solely on his political and philosophical views.” They said that if he is fired, they would ask Wellesley College to reconsider the formal academic relationship it signed with Peking University in June.

A recent editorial in the state-run Global Times castigated Mr. Xia as an “extreme liberal” advocating “freedom and democracy.” His troubles with state and university authorities began when he signed a petition urging democratic change in 2008. The primary author of the petition, known as Charter 08, is the Nobel laureate Liu Xiaobo, who is serving an 11-year sentence for subversion.

Yet this month, Peking University was one of nine Chinese universities to sign a pact to uphold academic freedom along with the League of European Research Universities, Australia’s Group of Eight universities, and the Association of American Universities. Peking University has been trying to enhance its mark as an internationally recognized center of learning. But the government’s ideological and political hold over the university makes a mockery of its claim to academic freedom.

The dismissal of Professor Xia is part of a wide crackdown on scholars, lawyers and writers who have discussed democracy and freedom. In recent months, Chinese President Xi Jinping has been leading a campaign of “ideological purification” to suppress dissent. On Sunday, a prominent Chinese businessman, Wang Gongquan, who has supported human rights causes, was arrested in Beijing for “assembling a crowd to disrupt order in a public place.”

The rising number of arrests has one aim: to instill fear. As the editor in chief of a prominent publishing house in Beijing said in an interview with The Times: “Self-censorship has become the most effective weapon. If you let something slip through that catches the attention of a higher-up, it can be a career killer.” Peking University’s treatment of Professor Xia sends a message to the entire academic community that destroys free inquiry and has severe societal consequences.
524 2013-10-22 Some analysts point out that those sales are negligible when set against the market being targeted by , Amazon’s founder and chief executive. “The market is effectively limitless: all of global consumer commerce and maybe business-to-business commerce as well,” said Mr. Janeway, author of “Doing Capitalism in the Innovation Economy.”

With that prize as the goal, making money today would be a positive hindrance. As Benedict Evans, an analyst based in , put it: “Bezos has chosen to run Amazon to be the biggest, most powerful and successful retailer on Earth 20 years from now. Any fool could run it profitably today.”

Others argue that once a discounter, always a discounter. Amazon is branching out into many forms of commerce and technology, but at its core it sells commodity goods cheaply. A book from Amazon is the same book that it would be from any other retailer, and so is a package of diapers. Amazon also ships cheaply and has renowned customer service.

To make a significant profit, though, some or all of those variables will have to change, which might alienate customers and slow down that roaring revenue growth. That, in turn, would cause investors to demand profits even sooner.

Best not to venture down that road, said Colin Gillis, senior tech analyst at . “It is easier,” he said, “to sell things and not make money than it is to sell things and make money.”

In this view, Amazon’s whirlwind of activity — a set-top box, thrusting it into more direct competition with , is expected to be announced any day, while the rumors of an Amazon smartphone will not cease — is merely a useful distraction from its retailing reality.

The premise that Amazon can change its business model from selling other people’s products at a razor-thin margin to selling other people’s products at a large margin “is not credible,” wrote Horace Dediu, an analyst with Asymco.

Companies simply do not shift their business model so simply, he added, noting that , for all its money and smarts, still could not reorient its PC-based strategy to take advantage of the trend to mobile computing.

The current discussion about Amazon is reminiscent of the arguments about the company during the last systemic bubble, in 1999. Then, too, the corporate goal was to get big fast, to seize new markets before anyone else.

But when the crash came, all the talk of unlimited potential disappeared. It was replaced by a fierce concentration on profits, which were described as being right around the corner.

Mr. Bezos said in 2001 that the retailer would “ferociously manage the products we carry so that we sell only products that are profitable. The 30-pound box of nails isn’t long for our world.” Investors were mollified and the company survived.

That was then. You can once again buy a box of 4,000 nails on Amazon (shipping weight: 38 pounds) and have them delivered to your door free. But the retailer has gone far beyond such modest offers. The Thunderbird Cookie Dropping Machine costs $32,329 and weighs 1,260 pounds, but Amazon will also ship it free. (It is currently out of stock.)

Commercial Food Services Equipment, a third-party vendor in , lists a Thunderbird for sale on Amazon, but charges almost $2,600 for shipping.

“Amazon will sell many more cookie dropping machines than I will, but even if you buy from me instead of Amazon it will earn a commission on the sale and the shipping,” said Hyo Lee, the owner of Commercial Food. “Now you know why Amazon’s sales have gone from $34 billion in 2010 to $61 billion in 2012.”

Still, she noted that Amazon was building dozens of warehouses across the country and hiring tens of thousands of employees for them. “It has all these fixed costs now,” she said. “I think they’ll have to start charging more for shipping.”

Others agree that nothing grows to the sky forever.

“At some point, the piper must be paid,” said George Colony, the chief executive of .

How? “By raising prices. I don’t see any other way.”

At the edges, Amazon has started doing that, reining in a bit of its largess to the annoyance of some of its customers. For example, customers who paid $79 a year to join its Prime two-day shipping service used to be able to get really urgent things delivered the next day for an additional $3.99 an item.

An Amazon customer named Perry Denton took full advantage of this when he bought a lawn mower. “My Prime overnight [fee] was $3.99,” Mr. Denton wrote in an Amazon forum. “I kind of felt guilty, but I really needed a mower.”

Last summer, devoted Prime users discovered that the company had started charging variable amounts according to size and weight, with a minimum of $2.99. A self-propelled Lawn Boy, for instance, is now $25 overnight.

That is still a good deal, perhaps, but not as good as $3.99. The forum was full of complaints about how Prime customers were, as one of them put it, “receiving less service for the same money.” They also wondered why there was no announcement that the company was changing its shipping policies. An Amazon spokesman confirmed the change, but said the company keeps adding entertainment extras to Prime without raising the membership fee, including 41,000 movies and TV shows. Those three pilots it approved early this month, for instance, will be shown free to Prime customers. Amazon is reportedly losing up to $1 billion a year on its streaming video service.

Josh McFarland, chief executive of TellApart, a start-up that helps retailers manage their data, bought a $20 pair of flip-flops from Amazon. Then he found a pair he liked even more elsewhere, and prepared to return the Amazon set. The company told him not to bother. It would give him a refund anyway.

Few retailers feel they can afford to be so generous, but other Amazon shoppers have recently reported the same experience. It is a game for the long term; will customers remember next year what you did for them today?

“What Amazon is trying to do is raise my expectations so that I’ll eventually buy everything from it,” Mr. McFarland said. “At some point it won’t have any more competition, and I won’t know if prices are being raised because I’ll have nothing to compare it to.”
525 2013-10-22 On Monday, Judge Rhodes concluded three days of heated testimony on legal questions surrounding the case.

And starting Wednesday, he will hear evidence about whether Detroit is truly insolvent and cannot pay its bills, and whether its state-appointed emergency manager, Kevyn Orr, negotiated in good faith to settle an estimated $18 billion in debts before recommending to Mr. Snyder that the city file for bankruptcy.

Because of the size and complexity of Detroit’s case, it is being closely watched by other cities around the country that might also consider bankruptcy as a means to avoid huge pension obligations.

“This is one of those moments when one could look back and say this is where Chapter 9 changes,” said Babette Ceccotti, a lawyer for the United Auto Workers union, which represents some Detroit city workers affected by the bankruptcy.

The U.A.W. and other unions have argued strenuously that Mr. Snyder overstepped his authority by supporting a bankruptcy filing that puts employee pensions at risk.

In the first set of hearings, which began last week and concluded Monday, lawyers for the unions said state officials were required to abide by Michigan’s Constitution and protect the pensions of 23,000 retired Detroit city workers.

Judge Rhodes questioned whether the bankruptcy filing by itself jeopardized the employee pensions. “Do you have to wait for the emergency manager to propose a plan to cut pensions?” he asked.

Claude Montgomery, a lawyer representing a committee of retirees, said the judge could pre-empt any attack on pensions by upholding the state’s constitutional protections.

“You are the keeper of protection for the retirees,” Mr. Montgomery said. “You are the one who can stop it from happening.”

Mr. Montgomery and lawyers for the unions said Mr. Orr had already suggested a plan to cut pensions during negotiations with unions before the filing.

The judge asked the city’s lead bankruptcy lawyer, Bruce Bennett, if such a plan was under consideration.

“The city did make a proposal that contemplates cuts to the underfunded pensions,” Mr. Bennett said. “This was an out-of-court proposal.”

Mr. Bennett, who will be a principal advocate for the bankruptcy during the eligibility hearings, said pensions cannot be treated differently from debts to bondholders and other creditors.

“The purpose of this Chapter 9 case is to adjust the city’s debts,” he said. “That means all of the debts.”

The lawyers for the unions and retirees also challenged the nature of Michigan’s emergency-manager law, which has been used to take control of several financially troubled cities in the state.

The law violates “home rule” provisions allowing the citizens of Detroit and other cities to choose their form of government, said Sharon Levine, a lawyer for the local council of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees.

“The breadth of the powers granted the emergency manager is inappropriate,” she said. “It doesn’t allow the wholesale takeover of the city.”

Lawyers representing Michigan’s attorney general said that Detroit voters chose state legislators who had a voice in whether the law was enacted.

Margaret Nelson, an assistant state attorney general, said the law was narrowly defined to help cities solve their financial woes.

“This is essentially a temporary situation,” she said. “This isn’t the state dictating how the city is going to operate forever.”

It is uncertain how the debate over Mr. Snyder’s authority and the emergency-manager law will affect Judge Rhodes’s ultimate determination on the city’s eligibility for bankruptcy.

But the question of whether Detroit was forced into Chapter 9 illegally by state officials is central to the objections of the unions, retirees and some residents.

Beyond that, the unions are expected to argue this week that Mr. Orr has overstated the size of Detroit’s debts and the shortfall in the financing of its employee pensions.

Mr. Orr is expected to be the key witness for the city. He will most likely explain in detail the dismal state of city services, like street lighting and police protection, and Detroit’s chronic inability to pay its bills.

He may also cast a harsh light on how pension funds were mismanaged, including the practice of handing out extra cash to active and retired workers in years when the funds had a surplus.

Union leaders are also likely to testify in the hearings. They are expected to challenge Mr. Orr’s assertions that he bargained fairly for concessions in the weeks leading up to the Chapter 9 filing.
526 2013-10-22 The Brazilian authorities on Monday awarded a license to develop oil production in a coveted deep-sea area to a consortium of five companies: Petrobras, Brazil’s national oil company; the Western oil giants Shell and Total; and two Chinese state-controlled oil companies. The group, the only consortium to submit a bid in the auction, will pay a signing fee of about $7 billion to start work on the 35-year concession. The deep-sea field, called Libra, is believed to be one of Brazil’s most promising exploration areas. Legislation requires the Brazilian company to take control of the new operation, but doubts persist among energy analysts as to whether Petrobras, which has soaring debt and is trying to reverse a decline in Brazil’s oil production, is overstretched with an array of offshore projects. The auction was carried out in Rio de Janeiro amid protests by oil workers and other groups that oppose the participation of foreign companies in Brazil’s oil industry.
527 2013-10-22 A Kansas City-area prosecutor was appointed Monday to reinvestigate allegations by a 14-year-old girl who said she was sexually assaulted by a Maryville classmate who plied her with alcohol. The case attracted national attention when the girl, Daisy Coleman, now 16, and her mother, Melinda Coleman, went public, saying the Nodaway County prosecutor did not do enough before dropping charges against the boys they said were involved. Local prosecutors maintain that the family stopped cooperating, which the family disputes, but asked for a special prosecutor to take over the case. A Nodaway County judge chose a Jackson County prosecutor, Jean Peters Baker, to take on that role.
528 2013-10-22 Then again, restraint has never been DJ Khaled’s style. One of his promotional tactics over the summer involved a televised marriage proposal to Nicki Minaj, who appears on a track here called “I Wanna Be With You,” with Future and Mr. Ross. Both before and after this was revealed as a stunt, it brought DJ Khaled a heap of ridicule. As with every other kind of suffering on this album, he seemed to revel in it. NATE CHINEN

One of the near certainties of pop is that in a situation in which the singer of the songs is the same person who wrote them, the listener is going to have some sense of where that person’s head is at. (Even if unreliable narrators are being engaged, even if perversity is being wagered.) This is a word issue, to do with vocabulary, diction, mood, intent; it helps determine how much the listener trusts or relates to the singer. It’s also a sound issue, to do with tension and release, development, musical languages worn tightly or loosely. All of it adds up to the possibility of being plausible, in the widest possible sense. Few like implausibility. It’s close to wrongness.

But Cass McCombs does. He’s a singer-songwriter in his mid-30s; “Big Wheel and Others” is his seventh album in 10 years, a double CD. It’s almost always extremely pleasant: soft vocals; subtle and in-the-pocket rhythm; strummy or pattern-picked guitars in tandem with harmonically roaming bass lines, sometimes played by Mike Gordon of Phish. The songs can take the form of post-Bakersfield country or post-Laurel Canyon rock, full of easygoing wisdom and relatable sentiment.

And then at regular intervals it becomes baffling, as if during postproduction a saboteur carefully inserted lines like “I believe in littering/ waste should not be hidden, but seen,” or risqué novelty-song lyrics, or strange aesthetic decisions — a nearly pointless instrumental here, an abrupt fade-out there. A very contemporary jazz saxophone solo materializes over a roots-rock song. Karen Black, the actress, appears on the second disc to sing the eerie entirety of “Brighter!,” a song that has already appeared on the first disc. (She also appeared on “Dreams-Come-True-Girl,” from his 2009 record “Catacombs”; she died in August at 74.) For no clear purpose there are three excerpts from “Sean,” Ralph Arlyck’s 1969 documentary about a 4-year-old growing up in a hippie house.

Where’s his head at? He’s a Californian; his music definitely suggests sun, open space and hippie quixoticism. He’s into strange turns and oblique repetition, but as with some of his past records, he will come at you every once in a while with a single track that will pin you down with its beauty. Like a John Lennon love song. There’s a few of those here: “Angel Blood,” “Dealing” and “Untitled Spain Song.”

Do you like the Grateful Dead’s “American Beauty”? New Riders of the Purple Sage? Well, you might like “Big Wheel.” But also: Do you like Devendra Banhart? Bill Callahan? Lou Reed’s “Transformer”? The Chicago postrock bands of the ’90s, like Sea and Cake or Gastr del Sol? Constellate all of those, and you might find Mr. McCombs in the center. But more to the point, his record suggests double albums that use their length by following strange decisions to their logical end points, like Stevie Wonder’s “Journey Through the Secret Life of Plants” or the Clash’s “London Calling.” It’s an old idea, though still powerful in the right hands. BEN RATLIFF
529 2013-10-22 This worked reasonably well during the first term, though Mr. Baker argues that, by stocking his cabinet with other sharp-elbowed players, like Donald H. Rumsfeld, at defense, and Colin L. Powell at state, Mr. Bush was setting the stage for ruinous turf battles later. Mr. Cheney seeded the White House with his own people, ensuring that two of his staff members enjoyed the same rank (assistant to the president) as the national security adviser Condoleezza Rice and the chief of staff, Andrew Card.

After the Sept. 11 attacks, Mr. Cheney became the administration’s most muscular advocate for bolstering domestic intelligence gathering and ousting Saddam Hussein, along the way marginalizing Attorney General John Ashcroft and Mr. Powell. Mr. Baker contends that Mr. Cheney did only what the president wanted, but he also shows that Mr. Cheney shaped the conversation on what the president wanted. He sometimes cut other players out of the loop in presenting proposals to Mr. Bush.

Once, Mr. Baker implies, the vice president and his camp tried to do an end run around the Oval Office (the dispute involved the reauthorization of a surveillance program), and only by stepping in at the last minute did Mr. Bush prevent the resignations of the F.B.I. director Robert S. Mueller III and Acting Attorney General James B. Comey.

“I made clear to my advisers that I never wanted to be blindsided like that again,” Mr. Bush wrote in his memoirs. According to Mr. Baker, Mr. Cheney got his revenge by blocking a request to make a Comey aide deputy solicitor general.

Mr. Cheney shocked Mr. Bush by offering to step aside as his running mate in 2004, and the vice president was unpopular enough that Mr. Bush considered replacing him with Senator Bill Frist. Mr. Cheney saw his offer as an act of statesmanship, but Mr. Baker portrays it as a shrewd play to Mr. Bush’s insecurity, manifested as an ever-present need to show that he was boss, including of the man viewed as the most powerful vice president in history.

Mr. Cheney’s influence declined during the second term, a fact that Mr. Cheney chalked up to Mr. Bush’s increased confidence. Other factors played a part. As secretary of state, Ms. Rice proved a wilier infighter than Mr. Powell had been, and Mr. Rumsfeld’s departure reduced Mr. Cheney’s influence at the Pentagon. Mr. Baker also credits Mr. Cheney’s maladroit handling of his Texas hunting accident in 2006 (he shot Harry Whittington, a 78-year-old lawyer, in the face, but didn’t release the news right away) as a turning point.

“Cheney increasingly came to be viewed after the shooting incident less as a sober and intimidating force and more as a political liability,” Mr. Baker writes. “He was even the butt of jokes that would never have been uttered aloud in the corridors of the White House in the first term.”

Mr. Bush never abandoned Mr. Cheney, though he was irritated that his vice president declined to oversee the Katrina recovery and joked privately to aides about Mr. Cheney’s tendency to fall asleep in meetings. The failed nomination of Harriet Miers to succeed Sandra Day O’Connor on the Supreme Court could be cited as evidence that Mr. Bush really did make the decisions, since Mr. Cheney opposed her. “I tried to tell him,” Mr. Cheney told an aide.

Mr. Baker argues that Mr. Bush could be quite effective salvaging messes that he helped create, and cites the dispatch of more troops to Iraq in 2007 as evidence. But Mr. Baker also makes clear that up until then the disastrous post-invasion strategy reflected his tendency to set policy but not keep tabs on its execution. The reader emerges from Mr. Baker’s book with a keener sense of just how much, for better and for worse, Mr. Bush was his own man.

“Days of Fire” begins and ends with an account of Mr. Bush’s refusal to grant a pardon to I. Lewis Libby Jr., Mr. Cheney’s closest aide, who was convicted of lying about his role in the leak of the identity of a C.I.A. officer, Valerie Plame Wilson, to the press. The episode elicited the harshest words Mr. Cheney apparently ever directed at his boss (“You are leaving a good man wounded on the field of battle”) and created a rupture that Mr. Baker says has yet to heal.

Perhaps they know an Episcopal minister who could offer counseling.
530 2013-10-22 The country’s once-functioning health system is in a shambles. More than half of its public hospitals have been damaged in the two-year-old civil war and 37 percent are out of service entirely, according to a recent report by the . Many Syrian doctors have fled; those who remain describe dire conditions where even the most basic care is not available.

Mothers are desperate to have their children vaccinated; patients with chronic conditions like heart disease and struggle to get medicine; and there is “huge anxiety in the population,” said Dr. Adi Nadimpalli, a 38-year-old pediatrician and internist who runs two hospitals in northern Syria for the humanitarian group .

Working among conflicting rebel factions has proved a delicate task. Dr. Nadimpalli cut a deal with the fighters: “They check their guns at the door.”

Chemical warfare — which appeared to begin with small-scale attacks this year and culminated in the sarin gas attack in August that killed hundreds of Syrians — made that difficult situation even more complex, posing ethical questions about whether, and how, to speak up.

Doctors Without Borders, also known as M.S.F. for its French name, Médecins Sans Frontières, is operating six makeshift hospitals in the rebel-controlled north, without permission from the Assad government. In January, it also began secretly providing technical advice, medical equipment and drugs — including atropine, an antidote to nerve agents — to hospitals and clinics in regions controlled by the government.

On Aug. 21, the group got word from some of its “silent partner” hospitals of a flood of patients with “neurotoxic symptoms” — roughly 3,600 in a period of three hours, including 355 who died. Within days, its leaders had convened a conference call to debate how to handle the sensitive information, said Sophie Delaunay, the executive director of Doctors Without Borders’ operations.

Any public statement, she and her colleagues knew, could put the group’s doctors and their Syrian partners at risk, exposing them to accusations of siding with rebels and leaving them vulnerable to retaliation from government forces. And they feared that Western governments, including the Obama administration, could use their words as grounds for a military strike.

The group issued a public statement nonetheless; the information, Ms. Delaunay said, was “too big” and “too credible” to be withheld. The carefully worded release asked for an independent investigation, saying Doctors Without Borders could “neither scientifically confirm the cause of these symptoms nor establish who is responsible for the attack.”

Soon, though, Secretary of State John F. Kerry and , the White House press secretary, began citing Doctors Without Borders’ findings as justification for military intervention, just as the group had feared. It followed with a second statement, cautioning again that its information “could not be used as evidence” to assign blame.

A State Department official, speaking anonymously to discuss internal decision making, said that American officials had been gathering intelligence on chemical weapons, and that the work of doctors and humanitarian groups provided “just another indicator.”

But J. Stephen Morrison, a global health expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, said Ms. Delaunay and her colleagues “deserve an enormous amount of credit” for forcing the issue onto the international agenda. “They moved the global discussion forward,” he said. “It was very risky, and a tough call, and things could have gotten ugly for them.”

The debate over whether doctors should expose human rights abuses has long been “one of these inside baseball arguments within the humanitarian community,” said Len Rubenstein, an expert on human rights and medical ethics at . While Doctors Without Borders has a culture of “bearing witness,” he said, not all humanitarian organizations do.

The , for instance, adheres to a strict code of political neutrality; it works inside a country only with the approval of the host government and typically does not make public statements that could jeopardize its ability to provide medical relief. (Seven workers with the Red Cross and the Syrian Arab Red Crescent were abducted this month while assessing the medical situation in Syria; as of Monday, three were still being held.)

And experts say that doctors who opine on chemical weapons can get their information wrong. “Doctors are notoriously poor evaluators of chemical warfare injuries if they have never seen them before,” said Joost Hiltermann, the author of “A Poisonous Affair,” a history of chemical warfare during the - war in the 1980s.

Mr. Hiltermann said Iranian doctors played a critical role in publicizing Iraq’s use of nerve agents, but also put out mistaken information that Iraq had used cyanide gas. Those reports, he said, were later “cynically manipulated” by American intelligence officials to assert that Iran — not Iraq — was using cyanide. In fact, he continued, there is no evidence that either side was.

In Syria, government and opposition groups have each tried to marshal evidence against the other. The first evidence of chemical attacks emerged as early as December, said Dr. Sahloul, a medical school classmate of Mr. Assad’s, whose society provides support to Syrian doctors, including training in trauma care. But the reports were met with skepticism among analysts.

The conflicting claims made the collection of physical samples crucial. But Doctors Without Borders would not participate, Ms. Delaunay, said, explaining, “It’s not our role to collect samples for any government or investigative agency.”

Instead, Syrian doctors like Majid, the anesthesiologist, gathered samples under the guidance of expatriate groups.

The explosion that sent Majid scurrying to the hospital last spring took place in the middle of the night. In an interview afterward, he said he was able to take samples from two people; the crush of patients was too overwhelming to do more. He worried about preserving them; with electricity working only sporadically, there was no constant refrigeration.

“They are in a cool, dry place,” he said then.

That was on April 25. Hours later, Mr. Kerry and Defense Secretary said for the first time that the American intelligence community had evidence — “with some degree of varying confidence,” Mr. Hagel said — that the Syrian government had used chemical weapons.
531 2013-10-22 The company said it added 1.3 million streaming subscribers in the United States in the third quarter, pushing its subscriber total to the high end of its own projections.

In international markets, where it is less established, Netflix added more than 1.4 million subscribers for a total of 9.2 million.

Those subscribers have allowed the company to spend enormous sums of money on content with a little profit left over.

In the third quarter, Netflix reported revenue of $1.11 billion, up from $905 million in the period a year earlier. Net income jumped to $31.8 million, or 52 cents a share, from $7.7 million, or 13 cents a share, in the period a year earlier.

In an analysts’ interview on Monday afternoon, Mr. Hastings and the Netflix chief content officer, Ted Sarandos, said the company continued to improve its programming, its personalization technology and its marketing to draw new households to the service.

They also acknowledged that the company was in talks with some cable operators about making Netflix accessible through set-top boxes, but they said that this sort of integration would take years to achieve.

Three months ago, Netflix projected that it would end the third quarter with 30.5 million to 31.3 million streaming subscribers in the United States. On Monday, it said the total was 31.1 million, and released a projection for the fourth quarter of 32.7 million to 33.5 million.

The company also said it expected to cross the 10 million mark internationally sometime in the fourth quarter.

Netflix has previously predicted that someday (it hasn’t said when) it could have 60 million to 90 million members in the United States, and even more overseas.

In his letter on Monday, Mr. Hastings, who frequently singles out HBO as Netflix’s chief competitor, hinted at a specific number he’s aiming for: “We have done well, but we have a long way to go to match HBO’s 114 million global member count or their well-deserved Emmy Award leadership.”

Or, HBO might well add, its annual income of $1.6 billion. But HBO has had a serious head start.

One of Netflix’s first original series, “House of Cards,” picked up a Primetime Emmy Award for directing last month, but lost in most of the other categories it was nominated in.

Confirming what analysts expected would happen, Mr. Sarandos said that Netflix saw a “measurable bump” in viewership of “House of Cards” around the time of the Emmys.

Now, the hit show “Orange Is the New Black,” appears to be overtaking “House of Cards.”

“Orange,” which stars Taylor Schilling as an inmate in a women’s prison, had its debut at the beginning of the third quarter.

On Monday, Mr. Hastings — without sharing any specific ratings figures as Netflix has steadfastly refused to do — told shareholders that “Orange” would “end the year as our most-watched original series ever.”

The shareholder’s letter barely mentioned another series that Netflix introduced in America in the third quarter, a half-hour series by Ricky Gervais called “Derek,” which had its debut in Britain last year.

That show has received little of the critical acclaim that accompanied “Orange,” and without ratings, it is very hard to tell whether it has succeeded or failed.

As important as original series are — they have, as Mr. Sarandos said Monday, a “particular halo effect on the brand” — the typical Netflix subscriber still spends a lot more time streaming repeats of TV shows that had their debuts elsewhere.

Of every dollar the company expects to spend on programming next year, more than 90 cents will go toward the library of acquired series and movies and the remainder will go toward original series.

Furthering the point, during the analysts’ interview on Monday, Mr. Hastings would not wager a guess about how many new subscribers signed up in the third quarter thanks to “Orange” or “Derek.”

Michael Pachter, a Wedbush Securities analyst who is known for his skepticism of Netflix, asserted that the company remains significantly overvalued. He cited the fact that its free cash flow of $7 million was lower than its profits in the quarter, reflecting the future costs it will incur for content.

That said, “the subscriber guidance number is probably the only one that anyone cares about,” Mr. Pachter said Monday. “They’re guiding to similar growth year-over-year, which is a great result if it happens.”
532 2013-10-22 Re “Testing the Limits of ‘Terminal’” (Hard Cases, Oct. 15): Dr. Abigail Zuger hits on a central truth that all of us who have accompanied the dying know: In the end, what matters is not how many days or weeks a particular treatment extends life, or how precisely a diagnosis has nailed the problem. It is the memories that stay with us of caregivers who understand the sacredness of life’s end and who show kindness and concern about a patient’s total being. I thank Dr. Zuger for looking back and questioning whether there was not a better way to have helped a patient through the passage from life to death.

Dr. Zuger brings up a thorny issue for every physician: When do we stop trying to save a life? As resident physicians in training, we work hard at saving life even when it seems hopeless. As we mature as physicians, we increasingly recognize there is a time to stop all the heroics and just come to terms that there is an end. The two intensivists who were mentioned in her article understood this and made a decision. It was not cruel, calloused or unfeeling — just a decision.

I can tell from interacting with intensivists for the past 30 years that their decisions are not made lightly or dispassionately. I suspect the next stop for those two doctors was an equally difficult patient with a daunting disease, and more difficult decisions had to be made. I suspect they need some distance from the impact of those decisions so they, too, can maintain balance in their lives and continue to make tough choices.

Sparing needless and painful suffering to a patient facing an imminent demise is both wise and caring. What bothered Dr. Zuger the most, as she readily acknowledged, were the young physician consultants who reached their decision so quickly. What if older doctors had reached the same conclusion just as quickly? What is so wrong about coming to the proper decision quickly?
533 2013-10-22 AS C.E.O. of a fast-growing company, Magnet Media, I’m really committed to maintaining close relationships with clients. I think that’s key to quality service. Even though we are proponents about the power of digital marketing, there’s still nothing like being in a face-to-face meeting with a client and developing a relationship.

I like business trips and I use travel time to collect my thoughts and get a fresh perspective. I like to bring something to read that’s inspiring. I don’t care if it’s fiction, nonfiction or articles that I’ve downloaded, and I always make sure I have a collection of the latest episodes of my favorite podcasts. To be honest, my favorite part about traveling lately is the opportunity to sleep. I think everyone can relate to that.

I do think meeting people face-to-face is important. You never know when you may run into someone you have only talked to a lot on the phone.

One of the funniest experiences I had when traveling for business was on a trip to Los Angeles. My company interviewed a number of filmmakers for a series we were producing for a large film festival. I was watching one of the DVDs a filmmaker had given me to screen. The film wasn’t released yet, obviously, and I was trying to be discreet about watching it, but the passenger seated next to me kept peering at my laptop. Finally, my seatmate looked at me and asked me if I was watching a bootleg copy of the film. I was really offended and explained that the filmmaker gave me the DVD and I needed it for a project. My seatmate then mentioned the filmmaker by name and asked me if I knew her. I thought it was cool that my seatmate was a colleague or fan of this director’s work, so I asked him if he had been to the film festival. He smiled and then told me he was actually the festival’s director. We had spoken numerous times on the phone. It was a little awkward, and I was a little embarrassed, but at least we had a great face-to-face conversation for the rest of the trip.

I’ve also learned it’s important not to judge people when you’re traveling. You never know their stories until you ask.

I was coming back from Thailand, which was one of the most wonderful trips that I’ve ever taken. It’s a long flight and I was looking forward to a lot of quiet time so I could reflect on the trip. Of course, I was seated next to a bunch of guys who were being loud. They weren’t obnoxious, just annoying, especially since I was looking forward to a quiet flight. It was clear they knew each other and I immediately made the assumption they went to Southeast Asia to party.
534 2013-10-22 WASHINGTON — More than a decade after the Supreme Court banned the execution of the “mentally retarded” in 2002 in Atkins v. Virginia, the justices agreed on Monday to clarify how states should determine who qualifies.

The new case, Hall v. Florida, No. 12-10882, arose from the 1978 murder of Karol Hurst, who was 21 and seven months pregnant when Freddie L. Hall and an accomplice forced her into her car in a supermarket parking lot. She was found in a wooded area, where she had been beaten, sexually assaulted and shot.

Mr. Hall was convicted of murdering Ms. Hurst and sentenced to death.

Before the Supreme Court’s decision in the Atkins case, a trial judge found Mr. Hall to be mentally handicapped. Then, in 1999, the Florida Supreme Court said “there is no doubt that the defendant has serious mental difficulties, is probably somewhat retarded, and certainly has learning difficulties and a speech impediment.”

After the Atkins decision, Mr. Hall challenged his death sentence, relying in part on the earlier state-court determinations.

The Atkins decision gave states substantial latitude in how to carry it out and gave only general guidance. It said a finding of mental retardation requires proof of three things: “subaverage intellectual functioning,” meaning low IQ scores; a lack of fundamental social and practical skills; and the presence of both conditions before age 18. The court said IQ scores under “approximately 70” typically indicate retardation.
535 2013-10-22 Broccoli stems are too often an afterthought. Use them in this delicious salad so they don’t go to waste....
536 2013-10-22 Joe Bell, a senior equities analyst at Schaeffer’s Investment Research, predicted that stocks were likely to continue rising, at least until the end of the year, as investors become more confident that the market’s rally is sustainable.

“We’ve had a pretty decent run here,” Mr. Bell said. “It wouldn’t surprise me if we saw the momentum slow a bit through the end of October and then have a nice rally through November and December.”

McDonald’s fell 61 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $94.59 after its revenue fell short of Wall Street analyst’s expectations and the company warned that sales were likely to be flat in the fourth quarter.

Hasbro surged after reporting that its net income rose 17 percent as sales increased. Its adjusted results and revenue topped analysts’ estimates. The stock climbed $2.48, or 5.2 percent, to $49.72. The V.F. Corporation rose $6.93, or 3.4 percent, to $211.23 after its earnings beat analysts’ expectations.

Netflix jumped around 10 percent in after-hours trading to $390 a share after the company said its net income quadrupled to $32 million, or 52 cents a share. That beat analyst expectations for 48 cents a share.

Companies in the S.& P. 500 are expected to report earnings growth of 3.2 percent for the July-to-September period, according to the latest data from S&P Capital IQ. About 60 percent of companies that have reported earnings have beaten analysts’ expectations.

“Earnings so far have been excellent,” said Jerry Braakman, chief investment officer of First American Trust. “Earnings are coming in and beating by a penny here and there, and we’re very comfortable with that.”

Corporate profits will likely continue to grow as the outlook for the global economy brightens, with Europe continuing to recover from its recession and growth picking up in China, Mr. Braakman said.

Home builders slumped after the National Association of Realtors reported Americans bought fewer existing homes in September than the previous month, held back by higher mortgage rates and rising prices. KB Home fell 60 cents, or 3.5 percent, to $16.57. D. R. Horton dropped 35 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $18.67.

In the bond market, interest rates were little changed on the eve of the September employment report coming Tuesday. The yield on the Treasury’s benchmark 10-year note rose to 2.60 percent, up slightly from 2.58 percent late Friday, while its price slipped 5/32, to 99 4/32.
537 2013-10-22 HONG KONG — The police in Beijing have formally arrested a prominent Chinese businessman who turned his energies and wealth to supporting human rights causes, his lawyer said on Monday. The arrest of the businessman, Wang Gongquan, was another step in the Communist Party’s drive to deter dissent, supporters said. Notice of the decision comes a day before China is scheduled to defend its human rights record at a United Nations hearing.

Mr. Wang’s lawyer, Chen Youxi, said in a brief telephone interview that a police officer had called him to say that on Sunday Mr. Wang had been formally arrested on charges of “assembling a crowd to disrupt order in a public place.” Mr. Wang was detained on the same charges last month, and the decision to formally arrest him will give the police more time to hold him and to build a case, on that or other charges.

Mr. Chen later wrote on a popular Chinese microblogging site, Sina Weibo, that Mr. Wang’s family had received the arrest notice, and he posted an image of the notice. Calls to Mr. Wang’s wife, Cao Yuping, were not answered. Officers at a detention center in Beijing where supporters have said Mr. Wang is being held would not answer any questions.

Mr. Wang, who turns 52 on Tuesday, is an unusually prominent and established target for Chinese police officers seeking to stifle political activism: a wealthy venture capitalist who made a fortune investing in real estate, high-tech firms and other ventures.

Several years ago, however, Mr. Wang shed the typical reluctance of many Chinese businessmen to openly criticize the government and began supporting advocates seeking broader legal rights, equal treatment of citizens and checks on state power. He is a friend of Xu Zhiyong, a prominent legal advocate in Beijing who was detained in July on the same disruption charges. In neither case have officials publicly explained the specific charges.
538 2013-10-23 Dorit Chrysler plays a theremin designed by François Chambard at the Judith Charles Gallery, where a dozen one-of-a-kind theremins are on display in the show “Odd Harmonics.”
539 2013-10-23 “Last Seen,” at the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum, is a meditation on the theft from that institution of 13 works more than two decades ago....
540 2013-10-23 Lorde’s song “Royals” held the No. 1 spot for the fourth week in a row, holding off Eminem’s “Rap God.”...
541 2013-10-23 A Marine argues that if leaders applied more industriousness to the special visa program for Afghan nationals who help with the war effort, they could prevent more linguists from being trapped in paperwork....
542 2013-10-23 Apple’s keynote presentations were once the most exciting events in the tech industry. Now they feel repetitive and boring....
543 2013-10-23 Behind the strong pitching of Jon Lester, who struck out eight batters over seven and two-thirds scoreless innings, and an early 5-0 lead, Boston beat St. Louis in Game 1 of the World Series....
544 2013-10-23 Our family name meant “bad luck man” in Polish, German, Dutch, Hungarian and Czech. When half of Europe reads it, they think instantly of misfortune. Who would want to saddle their children with that?...
545 2013-10-23 Caterpillar’s woes in part are related to its bet on the mining sector, a bet that it bolstered in a big way through deal-making....
546 2013-10-23 The business of fake eyes. Why stocks may fall. How to deal with clients who don’t want to pay....
547 2013-10-23 Since the financial crisis, Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, has striven to build his name back up, but Goldman’s good name has collapsed....
548 2013-10-23 While introducing new iPad tablets, Apple announced that its iWork suite, which essentially duplicates Microsoft’s Office software, would be provided to anyone who bought a new computer or mobile device....
549 2013-10-23 What is an animated GIF? How does Tim Burke make them?...
550 2013-10-23 Three Romanians pleaded guilty on Tuesday to stealing seven paintings, including works by Picasso, Monet and Matisse, from a Dutch museum in a daring nighttime raid that shocked the art world. The defendants, Radu Dogaru, Alexandru Bitu and Eugen Darie, told a Bucharest court that they took the multimillion-dollar paintings from the Kunsthal Museum last year. They were charged with the theft and with bringing the paintings into Romania. The works have never been found, and might have been burned. Mr. Dogaru’s mother, Olga, who is charged with handling stolen property, had told investigators she burned the paintings, but later denied it.
551 2013-10-23 Ryan Hall withdrew from next month’s New York City Marathon because of a hip injury. Hall, a two-time Olympian, also pulled out of Boston this year and New York last year because of injuries. Hall said in a statement that in his “zealous efforts to have redemption” he had “overstepped” the need to stay healthy.
552 2013-10-23 Top-ranked Serena Williams breezed past Angelique Kerber, 6-3, 6-1, to open her bid for a fourth WTA Championships title in Istanbul. Williams has already won 10 titles this year, including the French Open and the United States Open. She is 74-4 for the year. Williams is looking to become the first player to defend the title since Justine Henin in 2007.

Second-ranked Victoria Azarenka overcame an erratic performance to beat an ailing Sara Errani, 7-6 (4), 6-2, in the opening match. Petra Kvitova beat Agnieszka Radwanska, 6-4, 6-4.

Correction: October 26, 2013 

 An Associated Press report in the Sports Briefing column on Wednesday about Serena Williams’s victory over Angelique Kerber in Istanbul misstated the name of the tennis tournament. It is the WTA Championships, not the ATP Championships.
553 2013-10-23 Kathleen Sebelius, President Obama’s health secretary, is facing criticism over the health care law’s problem-plagued insurance exchange....
554 2013-10-23 Eleven years ago, the Supreme Court banned the execution of intellectually disabled people in Atkins v. Virginia. Ever since, some states have worked to circumvent that ruling by defining intellectual disability using unscientific standards or by making it nearly impossible to prove. On Monday, the justices indicated that they may at last be ready to clarify the Atkins decision by agreeing to consider whether a Florida law defines intellectual disability too narrowly.

Freddie Lee Hall was sentenced to death for the 1978 murder of a 21-year-old pregnant woman, Karol Hurst. The Florida trial court found that Mr. Hall had been “mentally retarded his entire life,” but capital punishment was not then prohibited in such cases.

Mr. Hall appealed his death sentence following the 2002 Atkins ruling, which held that people with intellectual disabilities are less culpable because of their “reduced capacity” for understanding, reasoning and impulse control. But the Florida Supreme Court ruled against him because he scored between 71 and 80 on recent I.Q. tests, and state law requires a score of 70 or lower for a finding of intellectual disability.

Such a “bright line” I.Q. cutoff has been roundly rejected by mental-health experts, who say that the diagnosis of intellectual disability is complex and I.Q. tests are approximate measures but do not provide a complete picture. There is no magic score above which intellectual disability doesn’t exist.

Florida is far from alone in its efforts to undermine the court’s ruling. In Texas, the state’s highest criminal court decides whether a defendant is too disabled to be executed by using unscientific standards based on outdated stereotypes. And in Georgia, defendants must prove intellectual disability beyond a reasonable doubt — an arguably unconstitutional standard no other state uses. In a promising development, the Georgia Legislature agreed last week to reconsider that standard. Rich Golick, a Republican state representative, said, “When you’re an outlier, you really ought not to stick your head in the sand.”

The Supreme Court is right to revisit its 2002 ruling, which gave states too much leeway to define intellectual disability. It should take this opportunity to reaffirm the central principle of Atkins and require states to adhere to medical consensus in defining intellectual disability.
555 2013-10-23 “Sonny looked like Tony Soprano would have if he had made it to age 65 or 70,” Mr. Weprin said. “And if you put Ed Koch in a clothes dryer, shrunk him down to size, and made him 93 years old, that was Johnny.”

Mr. Weprin said his father, Jack, a prominent real estate lawyer, worked out an arrangement for Sonny and Johnny to continue their residency. No money would change hands in the restaurant; there could not be any action that would bring the police there. They would continue to pay McCormick’s prices of a dollar or two for drinks, even though it was now called the Bridge Cafe and had gone to white tablecloths and stiffer prices. Sonny could take his calls on the pay phone, sparing him from having to change the number he had been using for years. In return, their presence conferred a Zen-like serenity to aspects of restaurant life prone to disruption by predatory forces.

“You hear about restaurants where the linen guys were giving problems, or the carting guys, but we never had that kind of issue,” Mr. Weprin said. “We were an all-cash business in an area that nobody was in at night, and no one ever gave us a problem.”

A new tide of customers rolled into the Bridge, which had seats for 60, an American menu and a list of whiskeys that required its own catalog. One vice president of Prudential Bache had lunch every day alongside Sonny and Johnny. Ed Koch often came by, first as mayor, then as elder statesman and Uncle Without Portfolio. “He put us on the map,” Mr. Weprin said. “He’d be sitting at a table with some public officials. Meanwhile Sonny and Johnny and the Prudential Bache guy were at the bar.”

The Bridge could dig its hook into the most heavily entombed romantic New York heart. Its slightly sloping floors threatened to pitch you back 100 years, and the wintertime drafts were so chilling that Mr. Weprin wore silk long johns to work.

“We had a huge space heater that we called the ‘iron lung,’ ” he said. “If you happen to walk by it on the wrong day at the wrong time, it would melt your contact lenses.”

Mr. Weprin confessed that part of the delay in reopening was because of his own obstinacy about getting building permits. He refused at first to hire an expediter, a person to climb the chutes and ladders at the Department of Buildings. “I called, she said $8,000, I went berserk,” he said. He tried to do it himself but found himself nowhere after a month. The expediter cut a deal with him to do it for $1,200. Work is now under way.

Debates are certain to erupt if the Bridge Cafe is called the longest-running, continually operating saloon in Manhattan. Others insist that McSorley’s — the venerable, the legendary, etc. — is more deserving of that title, because of breaks in the service of liquor at 279 Water.
556 2013-10-23 But the decision to move the statue is another chapter in this state’s complex relationship with its history and with a man who represented Georgia in both the House and the Senate and in 1896 ran for vice president on the Populist ticket with William Jennings Bryan.

Early in his career, Watson was a leading advocate for the rural areas he represented, pressing for free mail delivery and supporting white and black farmers alike. He also criticized lynching and backed suffrage for blacks.

But his opinions later shifted. He became a ruthless critic of blacks, Jews and Catholics and once cautioned that “another Ku Klux Klan may be organized.” A publisher, he used the titles he controlled to build public support for segregation.

“His story is quintessentially Southern: bright promise being dragged down into the muck by bigotry and ignorance,” said James C. Cobb, a Southern history expert at the University of Georgia.

He added: “He was not a king, but a kingmaker. His endorsements could really swing sizable blocs of votes because he had a very, very strong following out in the Georgia countryside.”

Watson’s legacy has long made his statue an unsettling sight for black lawmakers and others here.

“It never should have been right in front of the Capitol in the first place,” said State Senator Donzella James, a Democrat from Atlanta. “I’m glad that it is being moved because we have all of our press conferences there, and we’ve had to stand right next to that thing.”

But State Representative Tommy Benton, one of six House Republicans who sponsored a proposal this year intended to maintain the prestige of state-owned statues, cautioned that Georgia should not erase its past.

“I’ve learned to take the good history with the bad history,” Mr. Benton said.

He said he feared that relocating Watson’s statue will lead people to seek the removal of monuments to other historical figures with troubling records.

“They’re attempting to whitewash history so that only the things that are pertinent to them are remembered,” Mr. Benton said. “I’m not a big fan of William Sherman’s, but I’m not out there protesting his statues in other states because he did $100 million worth of damage in Georgia.”

Like other Southern states, Georgia has wrestled in recent decades with how to recognize its racial heritage.

The state flag conspicuously featured the Confederate battle emblem until 2001, and anger stemming from the decision to alter the standard helped push Gov. Roy E. Barnes from office.

On Tuesday, Mr. Barnes said that his successor’s decision was a step toward deeper reconciliation, whatever his motives were to support the removal of the Watson statue.

And Mr. Barnes said that he wished the statue had been relocated years ago, when he was governor.

“I just never got around to it,” he recalled. “I regret I didn’t.”
557 2013-10-23 Michaels: “Howard was sour and dour and took all the joy away from everybody on the crew. He had an ‘I-don’t-want-to-be-here’ attitude. When Roone Arledge made the switch, I said, ‘I’ve got McCarver?’ This was the greatest trade of all time.”

At the World Series in four years later, Game 3 was close to starting when an earthquake struck the city. McCarver was discussing Dave Parker’s run-scoring double in Game 2 when the booth shook and the television picture went out.

Michaels: “Timmy contends that I grabbed his leg, which wasn’t the case. When the earth began to shake, I probably had an indentation on my outer thigh for a month and a half from his thumb and forefinger.”

Palmer: “The great thing is Timmy’s describing the double and Al knows what’s going on; Timmy’s trying to keep his balance as a four-foot wave came through the booth, the lights are going on and off, and outside, the Bay Bridge is collapsing.”

In 1992, Game 7 of the National League Championship Series ended dramatically, with Sid Bream sliding home with the winning run in the bottom of the ninth inning to send the to the World Series. McCarver had his own ending: Deion Sanders, upset with McCarver’s criticism, dumped ice water over his head in the Braves’ clubhouse. “You’re a real man!” McCarver shouted at him.

Sean McDonough (CBS): “Tim said he wanted to go back and fight Deion, that he should have been more forceful and fought back. What Deion did was a total embarrassment. We had to restrain him. He was walking as if he were headed back to the clubhouse.”

McCarver worked for CBS from 1990 through ’93, teaming with Jack Buck for two seasons and with McDonough for two. In 1996, McCarver moved to Fox, where he was paired with Joe Buck, who was then in his 20s.

Buck: “My dad and Tim didn’t work out, and there were times when they didn’t get along great. But I can honestly tell you that nobody was happier that I had been paired with Timmy than my dad because he knew I was protected. He was thrilled.”

McCarver’s partners attest to his intensity; his breadth of interests; his quirks (like slathering sandwiches with mayonnaise and craving crab bisque); and his desire to improve his language skills (injecting a new word of the day into his broadcasts).

Zabriskie: “One thing he shared with me is that he recognized he was going to succeed; he knew the game and had a personality that lent itself to television, but the one thing he lacked was vocabulary, and he did everything he could to improve it.”

McDonough: “When I first started working with him, I couldn’t believe a guy who’d been around so long and called so many big network games could be nervous before a game; he’d pace around, run to the bathroom. Then I realized it wasn’t nerves, it was he was really amped up for the game — every game. As I watch him, I see he’s still excited about the next day’s game as he always was.”

While McCarver has been criticized for excessive word play and for overanalyzing plays, he is perhaps best known for his uncanny ability to anticipate what will happen.

Michaels: “A lot of that has to do with his preparation and how the defense is positioned. Some of it is luck and some of it is just knowing what you’re talking about. He would have been a great manager.”

Buck: “I don’t know how you quantify it, but he looks at the field and thinks strategically about how a team holds a player at first, or a pitching sequence, and the pitches he would have called. He caught Gibson and Carlton. I always want to know his thoughts.”

McDonough: “He called the plays so often that you came to expect that whatever he said would come true.”

With the bases loaded in the bottom of the ninth inning of Game 7 of the 2001 World Series, Luis Gonzalez came to the plate for the . The score was tied, 2-2. was pitching for the . The infield was drawn in. The problem, to McCarver, was that “Rivera throws inside to left-handers” and “left-handers get a lot of broken-bat hits into the shallow part of the outfield.” Gonzalez flared an inside pitch into shallow center, just beyond the infield dirt.

Buck: “He called the end of the World Series on the exact hit that he called before it happened. I dare you to find anybody who has done that. It wasn’t like calling a field goal.”
558 2013-10-23 “They are lone actors but often more proficient than actors who we may see at the other end of the terrorist spectrum,” Charles Farr, the director general of the Office for Security and Counterterrorism, was quoted as saying in The Times of London.

Lone wolves driven by an indiscriminate hatred of immigrants and in particular of Muslims can manage to stay under the radar more easily than members of militant cells can, investigators say.

The tracking of far-right extremists intensified in Britain in 2010 after the police arrested one man who had more than 30 guns and about 50 explosive devices in his house, and another who ran a white-supremacist Web site and made the poison ricin. When a Norwegian man, Anders Behring Breivik, killed 77 people in Norway in 2011, surveillance of the far right was stepped up again.

Where Mr. Lapshyn comes from, the industrial heartland of Ukraine, neo-Nazis and skinheads are known to attack ethnic Russians and Jews, and sometimes Roma. But Mr. Lapshyn took a special interest in Muslims.

On Monday, the court heard how Mr. Lapshyn, after killing Mr. Saleem on April 29, had begun building hydrogen peroxide-based explosives, following instructions he had found on the Internet, and how he had singled out mosques as targets.

He put his first bomb into a children’s lunchbox, took it on a bus — a moment recorded on security video — and left it outside a mosque in Walsall, an industrial town northwest of Birmingham. The bomb went off but did not hurt anyone. A week later he tried again in Wolverhampton, west of Walsall, and once again the device detonated without harming anyone.

His third attempt, on July 12, accelerated the investigation by the police and eventually led to his arrest. This time, Mr. Lapshyn built a much more deadly device, packed with more than a pound of nails, and planted it at a mosque in Tipton, about halfway between Birmingham and Wolverhampton.

Its timer was set for 1 p.m., when the mosque would normally be crowded with worshipers, but the start time for Friday Prayer happened to be an hour later than usual that week.

When the bomb detonated, it sent the nails shooting as high as 230 feet; some were found afterward deeply embedded in trees.

If the worshipers had been there at the usual time, many would have been killed or maimed, investigators said. As it was, there were no casualties.

Mr. Lapshyn was eventually identified from video images and confessed to the bombings and the killing of Mr. Saleem.

“Our dad was targeted simply because of his faith,” said one of Mr. Saleem’s daughters, Shazia Khan. “His beard and his clothing represented who he was. Pavlo chose to kill him that night with only the intention in mind. Hopefully, he will get the sentence he deserves.”
559 2013-10-23 The state Department of Corrections said Tuesday that it was switching to pentobarbital for lethal injections, less than two weeks after the governor halted executions until it could find a replacement for the anesthetic propofol. Richard Dieter, director of the Death Penalty Information Center, said that 13 states use pentobarbital for executions and that every execution but one over the past two years in the United States used pentobarbital. Gov. Jay Nixon on Oct. 11 halted a scheduled execution in part because the European Union was weighing export limits on propofol if it was used in executions. Propofol is mostly made in Europe. Mr. Nixon, a Democrat, halted all executions until the issue was resolved. States have been scrambling to find alternatives in recent years because manufacturers do not want their products used in executions.
560 2013-10-23 Steven Patrick Morrissey of Manchester, England, a place “more brittle and less courteous than anywhere else on earth,” former singer for the Smiths, once and future hero for the misunderstood, and champion for powerless humans and animals, is also an inspired adman. The concept for the Smiths’ record covers, he explains in his new book, “Autobiography,” was “to take images that were the opposite of glamour and to pump enough heart and desire into them to show ordinariness as an instrument of power — or possibly, glamour.”

The best of them, with tinted black-and-white photographs and all-caps type, did exactly that. The cover for the single “Heaven Knows I’m Miserable Now,” in 1984, shows Viv Nicholson, a Yorkshire cake-factory worker, a winner and famously fast spender of a lucrative football pool in 1961, fully owning the middle of a rutted street. She has what looks like a camel’s-hair coat, teased and bleached hair, a grim face. In her apparent knowledge that she is fantastic amid wreckage, she radiates power. But the cover itself, declaring her importance as well as the band’s, radiates even more.

“Autobiography,” as sharp as it is tedious, both empathetic and pointlessly cruel, has been published in England as a Penguin Classics paperback. (No American publication date has been announced.) And its cover also radiates power. It follows the design template of Penguin’s pre-20th-century titles, with orange lettering on a black panel. Morrissey has talked himself into a special clique of the dead. He may be a British national treasure etc., but how did he manage that?

Morrissey’s operation is built on doing extraordinarily attention-getting things while intimating vestigial modesty. Who gave him permission to put a yellow streak in his hair while attending what he describes as pretty much the grimmest Catholic school of the global 1970s? Or to figure that “only classical composers were known by just their surnames, and this suited my mudlark temperament quite nicely”? Or to let himself, untutored in music, be “free as a hawk to paint the canvas as I wish” while recording with the Smiths, creating extravagantly mannered vocal melodies over Johnny Marr’s exact song constructions?

Or, as he did after the release of the book last week, to issue a statement about his sexual orientation, for those still confused after reading his story for 457 pages? “Unfortunately, I am not homosexual,” he declared. “In technical fact, I am humasexual. I am attracted to humans. But, of course ... not many.”

He understands his own value — boy does he ever — and he understands the position of the superfan. The best stretches in this book, written in the excited present tense of teenage perceptions, comes from extremely close attention to music, movies, television and attitudes in England up to the late 1970s.
561 2013-10-23 The black-and-white checkerboard floor (or chessboard, in this case) suggested the name for this American brasserie with snazzy décor and red accents. It is the latest venture for the chef and restaurateur Marc Murphy, in partnership with the Gerber Group. “Naming a restaurant is the hardest part,” Mr. Murphy said. “The ones you want are always taken.” The restaurant, deep and somewhat narrow, culminates at a dining counter facing a generous open kitchen. The menu starts with a handful of raw-bar selections. Then, more than a dozen small plates offer ample vegetable choices, including the inevitable kale (grilled with goat cheese and as pesto alongside kabocha squash), but also a few items to tempt adventurous palates, like roasted snails with bone marrow, and calf’s brains with brown butter. Several sandwiches share the main-plate section with turbot, skirt steak and roast chicken breast. (Opens Monday): Viceroy New York, 120 West 57th Street, (212) 707-8000, kingside-restaurant.com.

BISUTORO Masaharu Morimoto’s long-awaited but short-lived Tribeca Canvas closed this summer and now reopens as this Japanese bistro, which is what the name means. Mr. Morimoto is in partnership with Patrick Fahey of Macao Trading and Emmanuelle LaSalle Hill and Tommy Hill of Los Americanos. The menu rethinks Western classics with Japanese ingredients, or vice versa. You’ll find onion soup made into dumplings, uni carbonara and a Wagyu burger with teriyaki onions: 313 Church Street (Lispenard Street), (212) 727-0644, bisutoronyc.com.

MINTON’S Richard Parsons’s redo of the legendary Minton’s Playhouse features Southern cooking and live jazz: 206 West 118th Street, (212) 243-2222, mintonsharlem.com.

MOMOFUKU KO David Chang plans to move his counter-only tasting-menu restaurant to an odd little East Village alleyway, possibly by the end of the year. “Our original lease is up and this new space will give Ko the kitchen it deserves and a waiting room for customers,” he said. There will be tables and a counter. The chef will still be Sean Gray: Extra Place (First Street near Bowery).

JESUS NUñEZ, who was the chef at Barraca and Melibea, Hector Sanz’s Spanish restaurants in the Village, is now executive chef for the Mangia Group cafes and catering. Alex Ureña, the chef at Mr. Sanz’s Rayuela, replaces him at the Spanish restaurants.
562 2013-10-23 CAIRO — A human rights group said Tuesday that Bahrain, which has been criticized for cracking down on opposition protesters, might “misuse” more than a million canisters of tear gas that the government is reportedly trying to buy.

The group, Human Rights Watch, said that Bahraini security forces had “repeatedly used tear gas disproportionately and sometimes unlawfully in suppressing antigovernment demonstrations” since 2011, when protests against Bahrain’s monarchy erupted as part of the wave of uprisings sweeping the Middle East.

Tear gas misuse “has been implicated in more than a dozen deaths and serious injuries,” the group said.

The warning came after a watchdog group, Bahrain Watch, released documents last week showing what the group said was a public tender for 1.6 million tear gas shells, 90,000 tear gas grenades and 145,000 sound and flash grenades. The tender, dated June 16, was issued by Bahrain’s Ministry of Interior, which oversees the riot police.

During almost three years of unrest, Bahrain’s Sunni monarchy has given little quarter to its opposition, led by members of the island nation’s Shiite majority, which is pressing for broader rights and political inclusion. Bahrain’s most active dissidents have been imprisoned or exiled. Street protests that spring up almost daily are quickly dispersed by the riot police, often using tear gas, birdshot and sound grenades.

A report last year by Physicians for Human Rights, which has been sharply critical of the Bahraini government, said the “extensive and persistent use” of tear gas in Bahrain was “unprecedented in the 100-year history of tear gas use against civilians.” The group found that the authorities fired projectiles at protesters at close range, causing grievous injuries, and used tear gas against civilians in their homes or cars.

A press officer for the Bahraini government did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the planned purchase. In the past, the government has said that its use of tear gas adheres to international standards of riot control and is employed to disperse youths who increasingly use incendiary devices and other weapons against the police.
563 2013-10-23 With its free software offering, Apple is capitalizing on strong growth in tablet computing sales and Microsoft’s reluctance to offer Office for the iPad.

Tablets are devouring the PC market, which has long been Microsoft’s playing ground. About 120 million tablets were shipped in 2012, nearly seven times as many as in 2010, when the first Apple iPad was released, according to Gartner, a market research company. IDC, another research company, predicts that sales of tablets will surpass those of PCs in the fourth quarter of this year and on an annual basis in 2015.

So far, Microsoft has had little success in that growing market. Its attempts to sell tablets have been failures, and Windows 8, which it has marketed as a software system for tablets and PCs, has gotten a chilly reception. What’s more, Microsoft still charges $120 for people who want to upgrade from the older Windows 7 system to Windows 8.

That shift to mobile devices and low-cost software is why Microsoft is trying to shift from being a traditional software company into one that sells Internet services and devices, said Ross Rubin, an independent consumer technology analyst for Reticle Research. The company could reduce the upfront price for its software and charge people more over time for the services through subscriptions. And with the release on Tuesday of Microsoft’s new Surface tablets, the company is more aggressively marketing the online services available for it, like SkyDrive, a service for storing files on the Internet.

Microsoft’s chief executive, Steven A. Ballmer, said recently that the company would bring a version of Office to the iPad and other touch devices, but the company has not said when that will be. It sells an annual subscription to Office 365 on other devices for $100 a year.

Asked about Apple’s decision to give away its iWork apps, Heather Knox, a spokeswoman for Microsoft Office, said in a statement that a Web-based version of Office was the best free alternative to Microsoft’s traditional Office applications. “They extend the Office experience you know and love with anytime, anywhere online editing and collaboration,” Ms. Knox said.

The new iPad Mini also gained a high-resolution Retina display. The new tablet costs $400 — $70 more than the previous iPad Mini. But Apple said it would continue selling the older iPad Mini without a Retina display for $300.

The iPad Air is about 20 percent thinner than the previous iPad and weighs one pound, down from 1.4 pounds. Both new iPads will include new chips, called A7 and M7, which Apple introduced last month in its latest high-end iPhone. The A7 is a faster processor with a new architecture that makes it better at multitasking. The M7 is dedicated to sensing movement, which could allow for new capabilities in software or games that incorporate motion, like a car racing game.

The iPads have an improved antenna system for faster Wi-Fi connections. They will come in white and silver and in black and gray, similar to the colors of the iPhone 5S (though the iPads will not come in white and gold like the iPhone). The iPad Air goes on sale on Nov. 1, but the new Mini will ship later in November.

The new iPads do not include the fingerprint sensor technology, TouchID, that Apple introduced in the iPhone 5S. Analysts say that may be because parts are in limited supply, as the iPhone 5S is selling so quickly.

The Mac computers have taken the back seat of Apple’s business, but the company also released upgrades for some of its Mac hardware on Tuesday. The MacBook Pro notebooks with Retina displays are now thinner and faster, with better battery life. The 13-inch version will cost $1,300, down $300 from its original price, and the 15-inch model will cost $2,000, down $200 from the original price.

Apple also said the high-end Mac desktop computer, the Mac Pro, which was introduced in June, will begin shipping in December, for $3,000.

Apple is No. 1 in the tablet market with about a 32 percent share, according to IDC. But the company faces fierce competition from companies like Amazon, Samsung Electronics and Google, whose tablets undercut the iPad in price. Samsung, the No. 2 tablet maker, is quickly gaining traction, with 18 percent of the market in the second quarter, compared with 7.6 percent in the period a year earlier, according to IDC.

Smartphones are still more popular than tablets: Gartner predicts manufacturers will ship one billion smartphones and 184 million tablets this year.

But Carolina Milanesi, an analyst for Gartner, said she expected smaller tablets to continue gaining in popularity as the smartphone market becomes saturated.

“We expect this holiday season to be all about smaller tablets as even the long-term holiday favorite — the smartphone — loses its appeal,” Ms. Milanesi said.
564 2013-10-23 And now, a high-altitude adventure for the leisure class, people who do not want to be jostled as they sip Champagne and gaze down at Earth’s curved blue surface.

A new space tourism company named World View unveiled its plans on Tuesday to loft passengers to the stratosphere as early as 2015, not by rocket but by giant balloon. Price: $75,000. (Drinks included.)

World View is led by the same people involved in Inspiration Mars, a private endeavor to launch two people in 2018 to a flyby of the red planet.

“This is a very gentle flight that will last for hours aloft,” said Jane Poynter, World View’s chief executive. She said the cabin would be about the size of that of a private jet, and would have a “superbly comfortable, luxurious interior where you can get up and stand upright and move around and go back to the bar and get a drink.”

Over the past few years, space tourism companies like Virgin Galactic and XCOR Aerospace have sold hundreds of tickets for suborbital rocket trips, with the first paying passengers scheduled to get their rides as early as next year. But the rockets are essentially big roller-coaster rides, with the exciting portion at the top of the arc lasting just a few minutes.

By contrast, World View’s balloon and capsule, with six passengers and two crew members, would take about an hour and a half to reach altitude and then drift for a couple of hours before the balloon was jettisoned and the capsule would glide back to Earth beneath an inflated parasail. “We really think there is a market for being able to contemplate the view,” said Taber MacCallum, the company’s chief technology officer.
565 2013-10-23 HONG KONG — Prices of new homes in China continued to soar in September, defying government efforts to cool the market and highlighting some of the challenges Beijing faces as it seeks to rebalance growth and rein in risks that have built up in the economy during the past five years.

Rising affluence, relatively cheap credit and the gradual urbanization of Chinese society, in which millions of people have moved from the countryside to cities, all have contributed to demand for new homes, pushing up prices.

Data from the statistics bureau, which tracks changes in China’s 70 biggest cities, showed that prices had risen or remained at their current highs in nearly all of those cities in September. On average, home prices in the places studied rose 9.1 percent from a year earlier.

As in previous months, the sharpest gains were in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen, metropolises whose populations have ballooned as workers from other parts of the country have flocked there in search of jobs.

Home prices in Beijing leaped 16 percent in September from a year earlier, picking up from the already large increases of previous months. Prices in Shanghai jumped 17 percent, and new homes in Shenzhen and Guangzhou were one-fifth more expensive. Gains in other cities were less drastic — prices in cities like Urumqi, Wuhan and Nanjing, for example, rose about 10 percent, and those in Haikou, on the southern island of Hainan, edged up 1.1 percent.

The government has sought in recent years to rein in property price growth, taking measures like imposing higher down payment requirements. But it has steered clear of more drastic constraints, like property taxes, for fear of depressing a sector that is hugely important to the economy. At least 10 percent of China’s gross domestic product comes directly from the construction and real estate sectors — and far more when the industries that supply them and the consumption linked to the purchases of homes are taken into account, analysts estimate.
566 2013-10-24 Always inquisitive and lively, the deputy business editor David Gillen makes sense of the world’s business, tackling complicated issues from a common-sense perspective.
567 2013-10-24 In this lesson we offer four student investigations about early Italian Renaissance art that integrate Times resources and borrow from the facilitation methods we use in our “What’s Going On in This Picture?” feature....
568 2013-10-24 The price range was below what some analysts had expected. Including options and restricted stock units, the company would be valued at more than $12 billion....
569 2013-10-24 The Boston Red Sox made a mental mistake that would cost them the game and give the win to the Cardinals to even the series, 1-1....
570 2013-10-24 When sales started to fall, the owner started to make changes. So far, however, they have not helped....
571 2013-10-24 Private equity firms including K.K.R. have benefited as improving markets have helped push up the value of their investments....
572 2013-10-24 Many of the London’s start-ups are trying to use technology to take on some of the world’s largest financial institutions....
573 2013-10-24 The shutdown pain lives on. An interview question that reveals leadership. What’s a good printer for your home office?...
574 2013-10-24 An eccentric who merits the label works from within. I once went to New York and called up the excellent dandy Quentin Crisp. (His number was in the phone book.) He, too, had the jaunty hat and the face emboldened with a ton of slap, but his brilliance was to see how society and its prejudices was a colorful absurdity that people like him could reflect back. He could show you depravity hiding in a business suit, and with a painted finger he could push the moral Anglepoise lamp just so, revealing how false and vain the supposedly “normal” world could be. And there he was, a man who had been spat at and reviled, sitting in the Waverly Restaurant surrounded by people mumbling into their tuna fish sandwiches, occasionally looking up and sniggering at this queer old gentleman wearing blue eye shadow and taking great care not to drop egg on his claret-colored suit.

People like this are like beautiful storytellers, breaking rules you didn’t even know were there, just so you can see better and maybe be better. Life is so full of rules and so full of predictable routines that one can almost forget that art and life depend on spontaneity. Enter the eccentric. No, not you, Little Miss Where’s-the-Camera! And not you, Mr. I-Bought-My-Oddball-Persona-Off-the-Rack. I’m talking about someone like the performance artist, club kid and, latterly, the Lucian Freud model Leigh Bowery, walking around London in the 1980s dressed like a giant exclamation mark, or Penelope Betjeman, the upper-class animal lover, traveler and wit, wishing she could give birth to horses rather than to children. I’m talking about Stephen Tennant arriving in New York on the Berengaria, where he was met, according to his biographer Philip Hoare, by a friend who was quite astonished by his manner and appearance. Tennant came down the gangway in demi-wave and full makeup, holding a small bunch of flowers.

“Pin ’em on!” shouted the customs official, not exactly admiring of the stately English homosexual.

“Oh, have you got a pin?” Tennant said. “You kind, kind creature.”

Isabella Blow would have died for her outrageous ideas — and many people maintain that she did. The McQueen frocks and the Philip Treacy hats weren’t what made her eccentric: the meal was the meal Blow made of herself, the phantasmagoric sense of fashion, beauty and invention. With her intelligence and her conviction, she could stare right past your most mundane, fearful self, seeing acres of freedom and possibility around each person. Eccentrics don’t just dress up; they elevate the conversation by revealing, as she did, the places where the conversation hasn’t yet dared to go.

The accessories designer and Yves Saint Laurent muse Loulou de La Falaise was once described as a beauty “held together by gold thread,” and a large part of her eccentricity had to do with a love of fantasy. She could imagine her way out of the normal, and she wanted to drag the audience with her. At her wedding in 1977, according to Vogue, she “dressed as a 16th-century Maharaja in harem pants, sported a turban sprouting a flame-colored aigrette and carried a fistful of beribboned red anemones.”

There are people who, as Oscar Wilde wrote, “know the price of everything and the value of nothing.” The faux eccentrics are the latest example of this type, a cynical little tribe indeed. One of the things Isabella Blow saw clearly was that true style isn’t a matter of doing what other people do, or even of doing things first, but of doing things memorably. The same is true of her wonderful kinswomen, like the Italian fashion writer and icon Anna Piaggi, who looked like a walking Picasso, or the decorator Madeleine Castaing, who lived her life as if it was a fairy story, believing that cheetahs, snakes and leopards made good friends and even better carpets. They didn’t always get the life they wanted, but they knew how to dream.

“Fail better” might be the motto of most eccentrics, and I think of it when I contemplate the life of Edith Bouvier Beale, “Little Edie,” cousin of Jackie Kennedy and Lee Radziwill, who was always telling lies and running away, and was featured in the documentary “Grey Gardens.” She only liked men born under the sign of Sagittarius, and eventually she lived in the family house in the Hamptons surrounded by 1,000 bags’ worth of garbage. You wouldn’t say things worked out well for Little Edie, but she was a beautiful woman who went her own way. And maybe that’s the true definition of an eccentric — someone who can’t be slain by what lesser people might say. “I was born with the courage to live,” said Elsie de Wolfe, who is considered America’s first decorator, and who was dyeing her hair blue and doing handstands well into her 70s. “Only those are unwise who have never dared to be fools.”
575 2013-10-24 John Harwood of The Times and CNBC interviewed Matt Bevin who is challenging Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky in a Republican primary....
576 2013-10-24 The activist investor Carl C. Icahn posted a letter on his new Web site to Timothy D. Cook urging Apple to immediately begin an offer to buy back $150 billion in Apple shares....
577 2013-10-24 In addition to star exhibitors like the Gagosian Gallery, Pace, and Andrea Rosen, the 40th edition of the fair features emerging artists, more public outdoor installations, a new performance series and a lineup of films....
578 2013-10-24 Net income of 454 million Swiss francs, or $509 million, for the July-September period was far short of the 705 million francs analysts surveyed by Reuters had been expecting....
579 2013-10-24 “It is remarkably sweeping in terms of numbers: over 200,000 made stateless — a staggering figure,” said Laura Bingham, who tracks citizenship issues for the Open Society Justice Initiative. She and other legal experts called it one of the more sweeping rulings denying nationality in recent years.

To some extent, the ruling, issued Sept. 23, and the intensity of emotions around it carry echoes of the immigration debate in the United States and other countries, with wide disagreement on how to treat migrant workers and their children.

But given the history of the Dominican Republic and Haiti — a sometimes cooperative, often tense and occasionally violent relationship between two nations sharing one island — the decision has brought to the surface a unique set of racial tensions and resentment toward the waves of impoverished Haitian migrants that fill menial jobs on this side of the border.

An estimated 200,000 people born in this country have Haitian parents, according to the last census, by far the largest immigrant group here and thus the one most widely affected by the ruling. Haitian immigrants occupy the lowest rungs of society here, and have for generations, living in urban slums or squalid sugar plantation camps where wage abuse remains common, as a United States Department of Labor report found last month.

For decades, Haitians, housed in remote shantytowns known as bateys, were brought over on contracts for sugar plantations to cut cane under the blistering sun. Many still labor in the fields, while others work as maids, construction workers and in other low-paying jobs.

Many Haitians proudly embrace the slave rebellion that led to Haiti’s founding as a nation. But Dominicans, although they rushed aid to Haiti after its devastating 2010 quake and maintain many cultural and social exchanges, historically have viewed their neighbors with qualms, identifying more with their nation’s Spanish colonial past and, despite their own racially mixed heritage, often deriding anyone with dark skin as “Haitian.”

“The Dominican Republic is at a crossroads right now over the question, ‘What does it mean to be Dominican in the 21st century?’ ” said Edward Paulino, a historian at John Jay College who has studied the relationship between the two countries. “It is a country of immigrants, but no other group is like the Haitians, which arrived with the cultural baggage of a history of black pride in a country that chose to identify with the European elite.”

Top officials in the government met on Wednesday to determine how to carry out the ruling, which cannot be appealed. In the meantime, the migration director, José R. Taveras, said that people in limbo would be issued temporary residency permits while the country comes up with a plan to grant them some form of immigrant status. But to many people, that means losing the benefits of citizenship, which beyond basics like voting also allows for lower tuition at state colleges and public health insurance for low-income citizens.

Although Haiti technically bestows citizenship on the children of its nationals, the process can be full of bureaucratic entanglements and slowed by missing or incomplete records, let alone the fact that few of the children of migrants here consider themselves anything but Dominican.

The battle has been in the making for years. People born on Dominican soil, with some exceptions, generally were granted citizenship for generations. But people of Haitian descent often complained of discriminatory practices when getting official documents, and in recent decades the country’s civil registry officials often excluded the children of migrants whose papers were in question by considering their parents “in transit.”

The Inter-American Court of Human Rights in 2005 denounced the practice as a way of discriminating against people who had been in the country for a lifetime. Still, the Dominican Republic enshrined the rule in 2010 by a constitutional amendment that excludes the Dominican-born children of those in the country illegally, including seasonal and temporary workers, from Dominican citizenship. The new court decision not only ratifies the change, but also goes a step further by ordering officials to audit the nation’s birth records, compile a list of people who should not qualify for citizenship and notify embassies when a person’s nationality is in question.

Legal experts, as well as two dissenting judges on the constitutional court, called it a violation of legal principles to retroactively apply the standard of citizenship established in the 2010 Constitution. “As a consequence of this restrictive interpretation and its retroactive application, this ruling declares the plaintiff as a foreigner in the country where she was born,” wrote one of the dissenting judges, Isabel Bonilla.

The case arose from Juliana Deguis, a 29-year-old woman born in the Dominican Republic to Haitian migrants and working as a maid. She sought her national identity card, using her Dominican birth certificate, but was rejected because the document indicated that her parents were Haitian migrants, not legal residents. Legal advocates for Haitian migrants and their children took the case to court, arguing that Ms. Deguis’s parents were residents because they had been contracted to work on a sugar plantation and never returned to Haiti, but the court ruled that they were “in transit.”

That came as a surprise to Ms. Deguis, her family and her neighbors, who have scratched out a living for decades in a remote village populated by former sugar-cane workers. Ms. Deguis has never been to Haiti, only knows a few words of Creole and never thought of herself as anything other than Dominican. “I feel terrible because I cannot work without my ID card and without that the school may not register my children either,” she said.

Supporters of the decision, including the immigration commissioner, said it would help the government regularize people and clarify the citizenship rules. The archbishop of Santo Domingo, Cardinal Nicolás de Jesús López Rodríguez, called the ruling just and nodded to a sentiment among some Dominicans that international organizations were meddling in their affairs.

“International organizations don’t rule here,” he told reporters after the ruling was announced. “I don’t accept anybody coming here to decree anything. No country, not the United States, not France, nobody. Here, we are in charge.”

For now, Dominicans caught up in the ruling await the next steps. Ms. Deguis is not working and worries about caring for her four young children, all born in the Dominican Republic as well. “If there is now this confusion about me,” she asked, “what about them?”
580 2013-10-24 By the reckoning of experts, it was the third time since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, that the United States and Pakistan have tried to reset their relationship. After the ouster of President Pervez Musharraf, who resigned in 2008, the new Obama administration began an assiduous courtship of his civilian successor, Asif Ali Zardari. But it also ratcheted up its use of drones to target terrorism suspects in Pakistan’s frontier areas near Afghanistan, fanning a wave of anti-American sentiment across the country.

A report released this week by Amnesty International contradicted the administration’s assertions that the drone strikes have become increasingly accurate, killing few civilians. The group says at least 19 civilians have been killed in two drone strikes in the Pakistani province of North Waziristan since January 2012.

On Wednesday, Mr. Obama pointed to Mr. Sharif’s election — the first successful completion of a full, civilian-led political cycle in Pakistan’s history — as a harbinger of change. And he offered American help with energy and public-works projects to rebuild Pakistan’s economy.

But some experts said that Mr. Sharif had yet to show much progress on either the economy or fighting terrorism, and warned that this “reset,” like others before it, was prone to dashed expectations.

“I’m all for engagement, but it should be engagement without delusions,” said Husain Haqqani, a former Pakistani ambassador to the United States. “None of the fundamentals are going to change as a result of this meeting.”

With the United States’ winding down the Afghan war, Mr. Obama reminded Mr. Sharif of the importance of a stable, sovereign Afghanistan. American officials have long been suspicious of links between the Pakistani military and militant groups like the Haqqani network, which has carried out attacks on Westerners in Afghanistan.

For its part, the Sharif government has signaled an interest in negotiating with the Pakistani Taliban, a process that analysts said the United States should encourage.

“If part of our strategy for keeping ourselves out of the talks is not to disrupt it with the use of drones, then I could imagine we could seriously curtail our target list during which time the Pakistani government could pursue its talks,” said Daniel Markey, an expert on Pakistan at the Council on Foreign Relations, who has published a book on the American-Pakistani relationship, “No Exit From Pakistan.”

Mr. Sharif brought with him a delegation that included his finance minister but not the army chief of staff, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, who often accompanied Mr. Zardari on these trips. Analysts said that was a hopeful sign for the resilience of the civilian leadership.

Mr. Sharif will soon choose a successor to General Kayani, an appointment fraught with meaning, given that his previous stint as prime minister ended in 1999 when Mr. Musharraf engineered a coup.

While a statement released by the White House after the meeting praised Mr. Sharif for Pakistan’s work on nuclear security, it omitted any discussion of two of the biggest sticking points in the relationship, both concerning Pakistan’s nuclear arsenal.

It made no mention of the administration’s concerns that Pakistan, which has never signed the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, is modernizing its nuclear arsenal with small, tactical weapons. Privately, American officials have expressed fear these weapons, intended to deter India, are easier to steal than Pakistan’s first generation of arms.

During an interview in New York last month, Mr. Sharif said the country’s nuclear arsenal was safe, and he sidestepped a question on his country’s nuclear modernization effort.

There was also no mention in the White House statement of the fact that Pakistan has blocked one of Mr. Obama’s key initiatives: negotiating the Fissile Material Cutoff Treaty, which would block nations from making more fuel that could be used in nuclear weapons.
581 2013-10-24 More than half of the counties in the 34 states on the federally run health exchange are served by just one or two insurers, and the premiums are high in areas with the least competition....
582 2013-10-24 Piracy off the coast of Somalia, once regarded the most dangerous sea passage, has dropped to the lowest level in seven years, Secretary General Ban Ki-moon of the United Nations said in a report submitted Wednesday to the Security Council.

Mr. Ban attributed the decline to increased international policing and information-sharing, more prosecutions and imprisonment of captured pirates, and greater security steps by commercial shippers, including the use of armed guards. He said 17 pirate attacks were reported in the first nine months of 2013, compared with 99 in the same period a year earlier.

Nonetheless, he said in the report, “ships still do not enjoy a peaceful transit off the coast of Somalia.”
583 2013-10-24 Also absent on the day of the verdict — and during the trial — was Steyr, which was listed as a defendant but closed its office in Thailand in 2008 after the investigation started. The case against the company was suspended after it left the country.

In addition, Thai officials say, they were unable to conduct a credible investigation into the unspoken question in the case: Did bribery grease the deal? To do so, they say, they would have needed help from the Austrian government and General Dynamics, which they say they never got.

While the case dragged on, Bangkok decided it could not use its expensive new equipment because it feared that putting the trucks into service would legitimize the purchase and possibly affect the outcome of investigations.

The Austrian government did not respond to repeated requests for comment sent to the embassy in Bangkok. General Dynamics says it cooperated with the authorities but has declined to discuss the case in depth because it is in the middle of arbitration over a financial settlement with Bangkok.

In its decision last month, the Supreme Court said the deal that brought the trucks to Bangkok “originated” in 2003 with a letter from the Austrian ambassador to Thailand, on behalf of Steyr. The court ruled that the deal was falsely portrayed by Austrian and Thai officials as a government-to-government sale, in that way allowing Steyr to avoid a competitive bidding process. (The company has since changed its name to General Dynamics European Land Systems-Steyr.)

The National Anticorruption Commission in Thailand described Steyr as “liable” in the case because it “facilitated government officials in committing the offenses.” The commission ordered the deal canceled in 2008 after completing an investigation.

Nitiphan Prachuabmoh, a director of the international division of the commission, said he had spent four years trying to engage the Austrian authorities. “We got no result,” Mr. Nitiphan said. “It’s their jurisdiction, and we can’t do much.”

Mr. Nitiphan said he had also been in touch with the American authorities and had raised the case with the antibribery committee at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, of which both Austria and the United States are members. He said he hoped that the Supreme Court verdict would spur an investigation.

A spokesman for the United States Department of Justice, which would oversee investigations of possible corruption by American companies and subsidiaries overseas, responded to a query in an e-mail saying the department does not generally confirm or deny whether a matter is under investigation.

In the decision last month, the Thai Supreme Court sentenced Pracha Maleenont, the former deputy interior minister, to 12 years in prison and Athilak Tanchukiat, the former head of Bangkok’s Fire and Rescue Department, to 10 years.

The court said the Steyr ladder trucks that were bought were 67 percent more expensive than Mercedes ladder trucks bought in a previous procurement. And fire trucks with the capacity to carry 2,000 liters, or more than 500 gallons, of water were each bought in the Steyr deal for 18 million baht, or about $580,000 — six times the price of a similar Isuzu fire truck previously bought in Thailand, the court said.

“The panel of judges, by majority, resolved that the purchase of fire trucks and fire boats with disaster relief equipment in this case was not reasonable and caused damage to the state,” the judges wrote.

Sungsidh Piriyarangsan, one of the leading experts in Thailand on corruption who has closely followed the case, said the deal followed a pattern of grossly overpriced contracts.

“This is a type of corruption that we have seen many times,” Mr. Sungsidh said. “They closed off competition.”

“You won’t find evidence of the bribe, but everyone assumes there must have been payoffs,” he added. “If you want a project like that, you need to pay for it.”

An American diplomatic cable from 2006 made public by WikiLeaks discussed the fire truck case and suggested that payoffs may well have been made.

“In Thailand, the odds are pretty good that a no-bid government contract could involve money flowing to politicians,” it said. “Whether the foreign suppliers might be party to any possible corruption is not certain.” The cable also quoted the commercial attaché at the Austrian Embassy at the time saying that corruption allegations were “nonsense” and politically motivated.

After a visit to its offices by the governor of Bangkok, General Dynamics in 2011 offered a rebate of about 10 percent of the value of the deal. Thai government officials countered that they wanted the entire deal scrapped, and the full amount reimbursed. Financial aspects of the deal are now under arbitration in Geneva.

The arbitration process does not cover possible criminal aspects of the case.

Meanwhile, the costs for Bangkok keep mounting.

As a result of the legal battles, the municipality calculates that it owes storage fees for the equipment as well as accumulated taxes and customs duties amounting to more than $80 million.
584 2013-10-24 The Food and Drug Administration is investigating the deaths of almost 600 dogs that ate jerky treats made in China. The F.D.A. said it had received reports of illnesses in 3,600 dogs and 10 cats in the United States since 2007, and that 580 dogs had died from the treats, which were sold under a variety of brand names. Pet owners and veterinarians have sent in reports of kidney failure, gastrointestinal bleeding and a rare kidney disorder, the F.D.A. said. The agency is appealing to pet owners and veterinarians for more information on animals that may have gotten ill after eating the treats. Pets can experience a decreased appetite, decreased activity, vomiting and diarrhea, among other symptoms within hours of eating jerky tenders or strips made of chicken, duck, sweet potatoes or dried fruit.
585 2013-10-24 A judge Wednesday ordered the release of the 1999 grand jury indictment in the killing of 6-year-old JonBenet Ramsey, possibly shedding light on why prosecutors decided against charging her parents. Senior District Court Judge J. Robert Lowenbach ruled that the indictment signed by the grand jury foreman constituted an official action and must be released Friday. A reporter for The Daily Camera and the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press sued for the records. The judge noted that District Attorney Alex Hunter prepared possible charges against John Ramsey and his wife, Patsy, three years after the death. It has remained sealed for 14 years because Mr. Hunter did not pursue charges, but officials have never explained why. JonBenet was found dead in her family’s Boulder home on Dec. 26, 1996. Former District Attorney Mary Lacy said in 2008 that DNA evidence suggested the killer was not a family member.
586 2013-10-24 WASHINGTON — American import prices rose for a second month in September as the cost of petroleum increased, but there was no sign of a buildup in imported inflation pressures.

Import prices rose 0.2 percent last month after a revised 0.2 percent gain in August, the Labor Department said on Wednesday. Import prices had previously been reported as being flat in August.

The September increase was in line with the consensus forecast of economists surveyed by Reuters. In the 12 months through September, import prices fell 1.0 percent. This decline most likely reflects the dollar’s strength earlier in the year.

“Underlying inflationary pressures are limited in the U.S. and no risks of inflation spikes at the final stages of the price formation chain are expected anytime soon,” said Annalisa Piazza, an economist at Newedge Strategy.

Import prices excluding petroleum were flat in September from August and down 1.0 percent from a year earlier.

Last month, imported petroleum prices rose 0.8 percent after rising by a revised 1.9 percent in August.
587 2013-10-24 Now, with Ms. Beltran’s detention as Exhibit A, that law is being challenged as unconstitutional in a federal suit filed this month, the first in federal court to challenge this kind of fetal protection law. Its opponents are hoping to set an important precedent in the continuing tug of war over the rights of pregnant women and legal status of the unborn.

Wisconsin is one of four states, along with Minnesota, Oklahoma and South Dakota, with laws specifically granting authorities the power to confine pregnant women for substance abuse. But many other states use civil-confinement, child-protection or assorted criminal laws to force women into treatment programs or punish them for taking drugs.

“This is what happens when laws give officials the authority to treat fertilized eggs, embryos and fetuses as if they are already completely separate from the pregnant woman,” said Lynn M. Paltrow, executive director of National Advocates for Pregnant Women in New York, of Ms. Beltran’s arrest and confinement.

The Wisconsin law, according to the suit filed in United States District Court in Milwaukee, deprives women of physical liberty, medical privacy, due process and other constitutional rights. It is also based on faulty information about the risks to newborns and ultimately does more harm than good, the suit argues, by scaring pregnant women away from prenatal care.

Bonnie Ladwig, a retired state representative who helped write the law, called it an appropriate effort to prevent harm. “It’s the same as abuse of a child after it’s born,” she said. “If the mother isn’t smart enough not to do drugs, we’ve got to step in.”

The law is intended “to help both the woman and her baby,” said Susan Armacost, the legislative director of Wisconsin Right to Life, whose group lobbied hard for the measure. Similar policies have won strong support from anti-abortion groups around the country, in part because they advance the goal of granting independent personhood and rights to the unborn child.

The suit is being argued by National Advocates for Pregnant Women along with the Reproductive Justice Clinic of the New York University School of Law and Linda S. Vanden Heuvel, a Wisconsin lawyer who was eventually hired by Ms. Beltran’s mother. Wisconsin officials have not yet responded in court and declined to comment.

Ms. Paltrow’s group has documented hundreds of cases nationally over the last decade in which women were detained, arrested or forced to accept medical procedures in the name of fetal protection, with low-income and minority women affected disproportionately.

In the most extreme example, Alabama has applied a 2006 “chemical endangerment of a child” law, originally passed to protect children from methamphetamine laboratories, to prosecute about 100 women whose newborns tested positive for drugs, sending several new mothers to prison.

Courts in more than 20 states have blocked the use of criminal child-abuse or related laws against pregnant women. But in January the Alabama Supreme Court upheld use of the endangerment law from the moment of conception.

In Wisconsin, because child-welfare proceedings are confidential, no one knows how often the 1998 law has been used, but anecdotal evidence suggests it may happen a few times each year at least.

Many medical experts say that these laws are based on exaggerated perceptions of the risks to newborns and are medically counterproductive.

In 2011, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists said that “incarceration and threat of incarceration have proved to be ineffective in reducing the incidence of alcohol or drug abuse” and that mandated testing and reporting lead women to avoid prenatal care that “greatly reduces the negative effects of substance abuse during pregnancy.”

Dr. Cresta W. Jones, an obstetrician and a fetal medicine specialist at the Medical College of Wisconsin who sees many women with histories of drug or alcohol abuse, said that even sporadic detentions had sowed fear.

“The women are scared to come in if they have dependency problems,” she said. “When you allow them to be honest you get better outcomes in their pregnancies.”

She and other experts said that while fetal alcohol syndrome is a proven but unpredictable threat, the impact of illegal drug use on newborns is generally less serious and more treatable than is popularly believed.

Ms. Beltran thought she was being helpful when, in her first prenatal visit, on July 2, to a clinic at St. Joseph’s Hospital, she discussed her medical history. Ms. Beltran, who worked as a bartender and waitress and became pregnant by a boyfriend who remains close, told the physician assistant that she had become addicted last year to Percocet, a painkiller. But she had willed herself off it the previous fall, even going to the hospital in November for withdrawal symptoms.

She said she was unable to afford a prescription for Suboxone, which blocks other opiates and is widely used in treatment, including during pregnancy. So she obtained some from a friend and, on her own, reduced the dosage over time, stopping altogether three days before her appointment at St. Joseph’s. She said that in May, before she knew she was pregnant, she had taken one Vicodin tablet for a toothache.

The physician assistant, apparently skeptical, said she should get a prescription for Suboxone because withdrawal could be hard on the fetus, Ms. Beltran recalled. “But I told her I’d already tapered off and quit,” she said. A urine test that day found traces of Suboxone but no signs of other opiates, and later tests found her clear of both drugs.

Two weeks after that prenatal visit the social worker showed up unannounced at Ms. Beltran’s home, telling her to restart Suboxone treatment or face a court order to do so. “I told her I’m off this stuff and I don’t want to go back on it,” she recalled, admitting that she lost her temper and shut the door on the social worker after saying, “Maybe I should just get an abortion.”

Two days later, the sheriffs arrived to take her to the county jail and the initial hearing. The case against Ms. Beltran was bolstered by the statement of Dr. Angela Breckenridge, an obstetrician at the West Bend Clinic South at St. Joseph’s Hospital.

In a letter dated July 16, Dr. Breckenridge said that Ms. Beltran had “openly admitted” taking opiates during pregnancy and was still using Suboxone.

“She exhibits lack of self-control and refuses the treatment we have offered her,” wrote Dr. Breckenridge, who, according to Ms. Beltran, had not personally met or examined her. She recommended “a mandatory inpatient drug treatment program or incarceration,” adding, “The child’s life depends on action in this case.”

Dr. Breckenridge did not respond to requests for comment. A hospital spokeswoman said, “We are confident that our medical staff acted in good faith.”

On threat of jail, Ms. Beltran remained at Casa Clare, a treatment center two hours north in Appleton, Wis., until Oct. 4, when the center sent her home.

She lost her job and now hopes to find temporary work over the holidays. Her due date is Jan. 15, and she already has a hand-me-down crib in her bedroom.

“I’m scared they can just come back after my baby’s born,” she said. “This is supposed to be the happiest part of my pregnancy, and I’m just terrified.”
588 2013-10-24 In his column about endocrine-disrupting chemicals, “This Is Your Brain on Toxins” (Oct. 17), Nicholas D. Kristof suggests that industry bias is influencing the regulation of these chemicals. The hazards of these chemicals, though, are not fully substantiated — unlike the compelling scientific evidence of risk with smoking and lead poisoning — and to suggest that this uncertainty is an intentional effort to misinform the public is inappropriate.

The Society of Toxicology, with members from government, academia and industry, is committed to protecting human and environmental health. We strive to help educate people about the difference between perceived risk and actual risk.

The scientific basis of regulation for things like endocrine-disrupting chemicals requires careful and reproducible results confirming that a real risk exists. Federally funded agencies are currently conducting a multimillion-dollar program to study the effects of endocrine-disrupting chemicals to determine if the current perception of risk is real.

As light continues to be shed on this issue, we hope that people look beyond the rhetoric to see if the science supports the claims being made.
589 2013-10-24 She has met with studio executives and has been offered roles in movies and television shows, but her manager, Evan Hainey of Untitled Entertainment, who has worked with Lindsay Lohan and other young actresses, is grooming her for something bigger. “There’s been a lot of great offers, but you have to wait for the better one,” Ms. Ratajkowski said.

Now, instead of being perceived as a catalog model (she has posed for Nordstrom and Kohl’s since she was a teenager, and scored a few lucrative commercial roles recently for Carl’s Jr. and Nikon), she has become a minor celebrity. Recently, she beat out Jennifer Lawrence in Esquire.com’s first Woman of the Year Award. “All of a sudden, Hollywood, all of these producers, were like ‘You’re an actress,’ ” she said.

The fashion world also came calling. She appears in a new ad campaign for Rag & Bone. An executive at Tom Ford discussed potential campaigns. In late July, while in Paris for model castings, she met Karl Lagerfeld through the fashion editor Stephen Gan, who introduced her to Carine Roitfeld. Ms. Roitfeld would book her for the latest issue of CR Fashion Book, including one of the two covers and an inside spread.

That Ms. Ratajkowski would appear topless in some of the photos may come as little surprise. Born in London, she was raised in a permissive household where “Mom was topless on the beach every summer in Majorca,” she said.

When Ms. Ratajkowski was 5, her family moved to and around California, where her mother, Kathleen Balgley, was an English professor at California Polytechnic State University in San Luis Obispo. Her father, John Ratajkowski, worked as a painter, specializing in abstract impressionism and portraiture, and later as an art teacher at her high school, San Dieguito Academy in Encinitas.

By 13, Ms. Ratajkowski was a young beauty who was catching the eye of modeling scouts. Yet, whenever modeling agents would approach, “my mom would snap back, ‘She’s going to be a brain surgeon,’ ” she said.

But the opportunity proved too tempting. At 14, she signed with Ford models as a way to get into acting. She would model once or twice a month while getting small television roles, including a stint on “iCarly.” But she soured on the television industry because of its typecasting. “I was so tired of auditioning for the bitchy girl in high school,” she said.

In 2009, she enrolled at the University of California, Los Angeles, but left a year later to pursue modeling full-time. “I started to have the opportunity to travel,” she said. Her breakout moment came in 2011 when she posed for a pictorial in Treats, a new high-minded erotica magazine based in Los Angeles. “No one really took much notice of her until she got in front of the camera,” said Steve Shaw, the magazine’s founder, who said that “she had something that was captivating.”

Mr. Shaw would feature her three more times, most notably last year for the cover of the third issue. That cover, an artfully composed black-and-white photograph of Ms. Ratajkowski sitting completely nude with her knees tucked to her chest, caught the attention of Robin Thicke, who showed it to his video director, Diane Martel. “She looked smart and stunningly beautiful,” Ms. Martel said.

Ms. Martel contacted Ms. Ratajkowski’s agent about getting the model to appear in the video for “Blurred Lines,” but was initially turned down. “I didn’t want to get pigeonholed into doing music videos,” Ms. Ratajkowski said. (She was also in the Maroon 5 video for “Love Somebody.”)

She was persuaded after meeting with Ms. Martel and hearing her vision for the video. “The attitude was silly and playful,” Ms. Ratajkowski said. “There isn’t this taking yourself seriously and trying to be sexy.”

But whatever visibility Treats has given her, Ms. Ratajkowski seems to have outgrown a certain willingness to take it all off. She will not be doing any more shoots with the magazine, she said. Ms. Ratajkowski, who recently moved to the East Village from Los Angeles, has greater ambitions.

“So whether I’m talking about a perfume, a movie or an editorial, there’s always a part of it that’s about me but an equal part that’s about the project,” she said. “I want to be a brand.”
590 2013-10-24 Never say that outer-borough chain expansion is without some, uh, local character. Taiko drummers will perform all day Friday (as well as intermittently on Saturday and Sunday) for the opening of Uniqlo at Atlantic Terminal in Brooklyn, where shoppers will get a free Heattech product on any purchase of more than $50 — like, say, a men’s ultralight down parka ($69.90).

Meanwhile, Sandro opens a Williamsburg outpost on Friday with items like a distressed gray leather jacket ($1,385) and an installation by the street artist Craig (KR) Costello. Uniqlo is at Hanson Place; Sandro is at 65 North Sixth Street.

The hat label Kangol has a SoHo pop-up (through Oct. 30), where you’ll find classic styles like Anglo-Basque berets with a detachable brooch bow ($58) and tweed bowlers ($125). At 281 Lafayette Street

The designer John Varvatos, who knows a thing or two about dressing musicians, will sign copies of his first book, “John Varvatos: Rock in Fashion,” on Thursday, 6 to 8 p.m. At Bloomingdale’s 59th Street, in the lower-level men’s store.

The Copenhagen label Han Kjobenhavn has teamed up with Pendleton on a project they’re calling the Sea Wolf, a capsule of ocean-ready pieces, including a sailor jacket made from indigo-dyed American wool with Danish aesthetic principles ($540). At 27 Prince Street.

In another trans-Atlantic meeting of the minds, the hardware-heavy suede and pony-hair Preen x Aldo Rise boot ($230), shown on the Preen runway in London, arrives this week. At 579 Broadway; aldoshoes.com.
591 2013-10-24 This year, I was chagrined to learn that Gateway’s Haunted Playhouse was starting earlier, in late September. When regular announcements from the theater’s public address system joined the periodic screams, I e-mailed a complaint. Along with a conciliatory response from the owner, who promised to show more neighborly sensitivity, I received an invitation to join the show.

It seemed like a crazy idea. On the other hand, I saw the cathartic opportunity in channeling my frustrations into one long night of screaming at as many people as possible.

To “do exactly as your neighbors do,” Emily Post suggested, “is the only sensible rule.”

In other words, if you can’t beat ’em, join ’em.

And so, with a sense of dread, but also titillation, I made my way past the bales of hay and eerie skull signage on the grounds of the theater, with its historic red barn and ramshackle outbuildings, to the extensive preparation area of the haunted house. In what seemed like perfect typecasting, I was to play a grumpy old man.

Before show time, the place was a hive of convivial efficiency. Sixty enthusiastic actors, all trained to remain in character and directed to choose quieter scare tactics whenever appropriate, chatted happily. I emerged from a session with professional costume and makeup artists looking like my true inner curmudgeon.

The theater’s “haunt director,” a twinkly eyed man who took the safety and artistic integrity of the enterprise seriously, led me through a warren of sets, past an impressive computerized control center, to my spot: the archetypal living room of grandmother’s house, with an open Red Riding Hood basket and a portrait of a wolf on the wall.

The gore was in the next room, in grandmother’s bed. I was just the warm-up act. A friendly actor dressed as a wolf, with the impressive-sounding title of “zone captain,” set me in my place and had me practice my part: I was to pop out from the shadows and yell, “Be quiet!”

I took to it instantly, of course, and banged my cane for emphasis so hard that I broke the top off. Soon enough, groups of people were passing through, many holding on to one another — among them, friends who didn’t recognize me. Many jumped in a gratifying way when I shouted at them. I especially liked scaring the tough-looking guys who were twice my size. And although I didn’t cause anyone to lose control of his bodily functions, I did pretty well for my first time out.

On a break, I talked to the diffident teenage Red Riding Hood working alongside me, who confessed: “I love scaring people. It’s so satisfying, isn’t it?”

Yes, but disconcerting, too. Don’t we have more than enough people using scare tactics in far too many ways these days?

As I kept up my assaults, always choosing to yell rather than using the more subtle (and potentially effective) approach of speaking softly, I began to think about my need to overpower and control. Is it really the best way to handle relationships with neighbors and other people who have opposing points of view? Or would a more tolerant approach yield a greater sense of community and, as a side benefit, a less hoarse voice?

Several hours later I emerged, in need of a throat lozenge. I was happily exhausted, but also a little ashamed, ready to return my cane and take off my mean-old-man face.

“Are you less grumpy now?” asked the producer of the event as I left. I told him yes, I hoped so. Then I walked home under a half-full (rather than half-empty) moon, if not at peace then at least not irked, and attuned more to the crickets than to the screams in the night.
592 2013-10-24 CHICAGO — Mayor Rahm Emanuel on Wednesday proposed a spending plan for his city next year that is full of nips and tucks: a 75-cent per pack increase in the cigarette tax, higher zoning permit fees for big developments, an end to some retirees’ health insurance subsidies and a rolling hiring freeze. Left alone, for now, were more controversial taxes, on property, sales and gasoline.

But looming beyond Mr. Emanuel’s somewhat unsurprising $6.97 billion budget for 2014 are circumstances far more ominous: a pension system that is short by $19.5 billion and to which, starting in 2015, the city will be required to make far larger contributions, threatening to leave Chicago hundreds of millions of dollars in the red.

“There’s simply no way that we can cut or tax our way out of this crisis and still leave Chicago a good place to work and live,” Mr. Emanuel warned City Council members in his annual budget address, calling on state lawmakers to settle, at last, on an overhaul to the Illinois pension system, which is among the most underfinanced of state systems, as well as to Chicago’s. “Without balanced reform, meeting our current pension obligations would require us to nearly double the city’s property tax — a move that would send residents and businesses streaming out of Chicago.”

As the nation’s cities have shown signs of making a modest recovery from the recession of 2008, some have also wrestled with the growing risks of pension liabilities, which threaten to pit promises made to city retirees against cutting municipal services or raising taxes. The four pension plans that affect the city of Chicago’s retirees were about 36 percent financed as of 2012, city documents show.

Chicago’s pension troubles have been years in the making, the result of city contributions under a state-authorized formula that failed to gather enough money, economic downturns and a Democratic-led state legislature that has so far been unable to agree on how to cut costs to the state’s own system. The state also controls the benefit and financing levels for Chicago’s pension system, and those advocating for changes to the state’s pension system say they presume such changes would ultimately be replicated at the city level.
593 2013-10-24 Ms. Schoenfeld, his only child, often tagged along on his theater rounds. During rehearsals, he would ask her opinion on which scenes or numbers could be cut without hurting the story. (He and her mother, Pat, sat on either side of her at the opening of “Hair” in 1968, shielding their 12-year-old’s eyes during the nude scene.)

Mr. Guglielmi, 63, grew up on a farm in Italy, one of six children. And while Ms. Schoenfeld is chatty and a bit eccentric, he is reserved and practical, a sales associate in the Bergdorf Goodman shoe department.

The couple met two decades ago at a Club Med in Turks and Caicos, while her two children from her first marriage were at summer camp, and married in 1999. Now, with the children grown, they wanted a country home where they could entertain friends and extended family. She needed a bright studio for painting, sculpturing and writing plays, movies and songs. And he insisted on a cool, well-ventilated sub-basement for making wine.

Keeping the construction on schedule and on budget was a challenge, particularly when Ms. Schoenfeld was making a movie. Still, once a week they piled into a car with their architect, Caleb Mulvena, of Studio Mapos in Manhattan, and made the five-hour round trip to check on progress.

Mr. Mulvena was the second architect they hired. They were hoping to keep the budget under $500,000, they told him, not counting the land. But after reviewing the plans, he said, “Guys, I’m looking at a $5 million dollar house here. How about we turn the dial down a little?”

They settled on a 3,500-square-foot four-story home with a modest footprint. Much of the interior is concrete, including the floors. The house faces west for a panoramic view of the Catskills; the southern exterior is photovoltaic, and the heat and cooling source is geothermal.

“I love this house because there is no fossil fuel,” Ms. Schoenfeld said. “We’re on the grid, but the meter spins backwards like crazy, especially when there’s snow reflecting off the solar panels.”

As is often the case, however, not everything went as planned. One night, all the appliances and the pricey fixtures (about $60,000 worth) disappeared. Whoever took them knew enough to bring along the equipment required to lift them out of the subbasement, which at the time had no stairs. For this and other reasons, they didn’t meet their budget: the final cost was more than double the original estimate.

The turbine, which Ms. Schoenfeld built with an engineering professor and four of his students at the University of Hartford, her alma mater, didn’t end up working, either. But she isn’t easily discouraged. Whenever she needs to replenish her reserves, she heads to the house, where “the view never fails to take my breath away,” she said. And she already has another prototype under way.

She is also writing a screenplay: a dark comedy about building a house in the country.
594 2013-10-24 SAN FRANCISCO — Think of it as the art-world equivalent of extra leg room — a museum’s resourceful way to turn a customer perk into a profit. Along with selling its regular timed tickets, priced up to $25, for “David Hockney: A Bigger Exhibition,” which opens on Saturday, the de Young Museum here is also offering a premium ticket online for up to $45. This ticket allows visitors entry at any time on the day of their choosing.

“It’s something we’re trying for the first time,” said Maureen Keefe, the director of marketing and communications at the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco, which includes the de Young. She called it an experiment. “We don’t know of any other museums that have taken this approach,” she said.

Her department decided to offer this new type of ticket after surmising that some visitors found it challenging to commit to a particular time slot when buying tickets in advance. It had also noticed that free V.I.P. tickets with flexible entrance times provided to corporate sponsors and in special giveaways were highly sought-after. “In a way we are monetizing these V.I.P. tickets,” she said.

Colin Bailey, director of the Fine Arts Museums, said it made sense to try the new ticket for the Hockney show because of the exhibition’s “exceptional scale,” with over 300 works from 2002 to the present. “I think there’s an opportunity for various ways of seeing the show,” Mr. Bailey said. “The decisions on pricing have been made in order to allow immediate access, if that’s something visitors desire.”

There is some precedent for high prices with Mr. Hockney. In 2012, “David Hockney: A Bigger Picture” drew some 650,000 visitors to the Royal Academy of Arts in London. The regular price was £14 ($22), but special Sunday evening viewings, cocktails included, were offered at around $40.

But Mr. Hockney is not the only artist that museums can charge high prices for these days; $45 is currently the top price for the full James Turrell retrospective at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, including an immersive light installation, “Perceptual Cell, Light Reignfall,” that can only be experienced one person at a time inside a spherical chamber. (Visitors who want to skip that claustrophobic experience pay only $27.)
595 2013-10-24 More than half of the counties in the 34 states on the federally run health exchange are served by just one or two insurers. The highest premiums are found in areas with the least competition, and most of these areas are in the South.
596 2013-10-24 Fiona Apple has found a way to let her moods swing even more widely. She has always thrived on a precarious blend of the meticulous and the impulsive, and her current tour, which is billed as a duo with the guitarist, songwriter and producer Blake Mills, opens up new extremes for her to toy with. On Tuesday night at the Beacon Theater, she was skittish and stubborn, baleful and whimsical, giggly between songs and, when she sang, cathartically serious. With the seeming casualness of a club show (despite a set list that has been consistent throughout the tour), the concert held a sold-out theater audience rapt.

The two other musicians onstage — Sebastian Steinberg, on bass fiddle, and Barbara Gruska, on drums — were a laconic rhythm section that was often contentedly silent. The audience cheered whenever Ms. Apple approached her usual instrument, the piano, but for this set, her piano parts, with their thick chords or elaborate counterpoint, were largely set aside.

Instead, the songs were orchestrated by Mr. Mills’s guitar. He drew on the down-home yet strategic syncopations of Ry Cooder and the hovering, bending lines and surreal distorted moments of Bill Frisell, carving wide-open spaces into the songs. The spaces were for Ms. Apple’s voice to fill, as she sang about betrayal, longing, bitterness, regret and fury.

“Dull Tool,” with its studio string arrangement stripped away, moved from petulance to admonition to wild-eyed incantation; “I Know” — accompanied only by guitar — unfolded from a pensive torch song into a searing accusation.

Mr. Mills offered a few of his own songs, and there were two new ones that he and Ms. Apple wrote together: the countryish “Tipple” and a whisper-to-scream-to-whisper exploration, “I Want You to Love Me.” There was also a guest appearance by the drummer Ahmir Thompson, known as Questlove, playing the tricky stops and starts of “Not About Love.”

All eyes and ears were on Ms. Apple’s ever-jittery body language — until the songs started — and her blurts of between-song conversation. She admitted that one of her percussion instruments was a tissue-box holder from her hotel: “I like to try to make the percussion out of a place where we are,” she explained. She posed riddles: “Why did the 17-year-old sign the recording contract?” (The answer she appeared to mouth was, “I don’t know.”)
597 2013-10-24 Brake problems have prompted Nissan to recall about 153,000 sport utility vehicles from the 2013-14 model years and Suzuki to recall 210,000 motorcycles, the manufacturers have informed the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.

The Nissan recall covers the 2013-14 Nissan Pathfinder, the 2013 Infiniti JX35 and the 2014 Infiniti QX60, according a report Nissan posted on the N.H.T.S.A. Web site. About 101,000 of those are Pathfinders. Nissan says that during light braking on rough roads, the antilock braking system can allow “stopping distances that are longer than customer’s expectation for the given pedal force. This may increase the risk of a crash.”

The automaker is not aware of any accidents related to the problem, Steve Yaeger, a spokesman for Nissan, wrote in an e-mail.

This is the third recall of the 2013 Pathfinder and Infiniti JX35 this year. Previous problems involved brakes and air bags. N.H.T.S.A. is also investigating reports of transmission problems on about 110,000 Pathfinders and JX35s from the 2013 model year.

The Suzuki recall covers 2004-13 GSX-R600 and GSX-R750 models, as well as 2005-13 GSX-R1000s, according to a report from Suzuki. The motorcycle manufacturer says corrosion of the front brake piston may generate gas within the brake system, reducing stopping power. There was no mention of any accidents related to the problem.

Suzuki and Nissan each described their recalls as voluntary, but under federal safety regulations, once an automaker is aware of a safety problem it must — within five business days — notify the agency of its plan for a recall or face a civil fine.
598 2013-10-24 Out of necessity, she delegated many of the company operations that she had continued to manage, like menu development, Web design and staff training. As she learned that Parties That Cook could survive without her constant attention, Ms. Gignilliat disengaged further — or “checked out,” as some of her employees termed her status in 2012. “The pendulum swung a bit too far,” she said recently.

In fall 2012 her boyfriend suggested that she consider “re-engaging and taking the business to the next level.” Those words struck a chord. Recognizing that she would want to sell the business by the time she was 60, only seven years hence, she realized she needed to create as much value as possible — “so I could sell it and retire.”

In November 2012, meeting at her home with two longtime employees to discuss budgeting and forecasts for the next year, Ms. Gignilliat slipped into a de facto announcement of her return to active duty. She set an aggressive sales target of $2.7 million for 2013, up from 2012 sales of $2.18 million. “I think we can do it,” she said, “because I’m stepping back in. I’m re-engaging.”

Seeking guidance, Ms. Gignilliat hired a business coach for leadership and personal advice but was unable to begin those sessions until after she stepped back in. She sought additional one-on-one counseling from Jim Horan, a speaker and author, because she was eager to use Mr. Horan’s One Page Business Plan to motivate her staff.

THE OPTIONS With the decision to step back in made, the lingering question was how she would pull it off. She had prided herself on a collaborative management style, but now she was simultaneously re-engaging and dictating an ambitious sales target. How would her team react? And how should her C.E.O. 3.0 role look? Could she ensure that she would stay engaged and not burn out again?

WHAT OTHERS SAY Stephen McDonnell, founder and chief executive of Applegate Organic & Natural Meats in Bridgewater, N.J.: “This case study strikes home as I find myself in the same dilemma. Most founders either let go too early and things fall apart, or they stay on too long, and then things start getting weird.

“My guidance is to test how self-aware you really are. You want to make sure you don’t try to become something you are not. You will also need to force yourself to make difficult transitions that are not easy — it’s all about letting go of control. You might want to think about the business in three parts: strategy, process and operations.

“As you already manage collaboratively, tell your team that strategies will be collectively developed but that you will hold the final decision. For process, which focuses on the culture and management style of how things get done, let the majority vote of the management team carry the day. And with day-to-day operations, delegate that responsibility to your managers. Respect the people you hire and get out of their way. And when you can’t help yourself from jumping in when you see something being executed terribly — and you will — make sure you apologize and promise to never do it again.”

George Cloutier, founder and chief executive of American Management Services, which specializes in turning around small and midsize companies: “Ms. Gignilliat should face the music and realize that she will have to fully engage again, probably curtailing her lifestyle dramatically. To achieve her sales goals, she will have to get back into the thick of it. She will have to install a demanding pay-for-performance system and strict accountability across her operation, as well as be prepared to replace ineffective or poor-performing individuals.

“She must give up the fantasy of having a great work/lifestyle balance and put her nose to the grindstone — and most of all, make sure she has a strong profit, because only that will ensure a worthwhile sales price.”

Ricky Eisen, owner of Between the Bread, a catering and event-planning company in New York City: “Since she set such an ambitious sales goal for her team, it would make sense for her to start in sales and marketing. Rainmakers are always the heroes, so if she can invigorate the sales team, create interesting marketing programs and personally promote her business, she will be accepted as the C.E.O. She should not assume any of the day-to-day responsibilities, which are so ably being handled by others.

“She may also want to offer her team leaders additional incentives — financial and otherwise — for meeting their goals. Some of them may be displaced, and the additional incentives will soothe some egos. Since her team did so well in her absence, she may want to consider selling her business to these employees when she is ready to retire.”

THE RESULTS Offer your thoughts on the You’re the Boss blog at nytimes.com/boss. Next week on the blog and on this page, we will give an update on how Ms. Gignilliat is doing.
599 2013-10-24 Boeing’s gains reflect the strong recovery in jet sales since the recession, particularly in Asia and the Middle East, as well as the growing demand for new fuel-efficient planes like the 787.

Boeing, based in Chicago, said it delivered 170 commercial planes in the third quarter, up from 149 a year earlier. It nearly doubled deliveries of the Dreamliners to 23 from 12 — 16 airlines are now flying the 787 — while shipping more of its popular 737 and 777 models.

Dreamliners, made substantially with lightweight carbon composites, were grounded for nearly four months beginning early this year while Boeing fixed hazards with their new lithium-ion batteries.

Some of the jets have also had problems with electrical components, and an exterior panel fell off the body of one 787 this month. Mr. McNerney said that faulty warning lights had accounted for about half of the problems, and in some cases, they forced planes to return to airports they had just left.

Mr. McNerney said Boeing had redesigned some parts and begun shipping more spares. It also is changing the plane’s software to reduce the faulty warning messages.

Airlines have stuck with the planes, which cut fuel costs by more than 20 percent compared with older models.

Norwegian Air Shuttle, for instance, had to ground one of its two 787s because of software malfunctions involving the brake warning lights and a faulty hydraulic pump. But the airline said that its other 787 had not had any significant problems.

Boeing said its third-quarter earnings rose 12 percent to $1.16 billion, or $1.51 a share, from $1 billion, or $1.35 a share, a year earlier. Revenue increased 11 percent, to $22.13 billion from $20 billion.

Excluding pension costs and other ancillary items, Boeing said its core operating earnings rose 20 percent in the third quarter to $2.14 billion, or $1.80 a share, from $1.79 billion, or $1.55 a share, a year earlier. By this measure, analysts had expected the company to earn about $1.50 a share in the latest quarter.

Based on conventional accounting methods, Boeing said it now expected earnings of $5.40 to $5.55 a share for 2013, up from its July forecast of $5.10 to $5.30. In terms of core earnings, it expected earnings of $6.50 to $6.65 a share for 2013.

Using the core earnings measure, Boeing said its companywide profit margin rose to 9.7 percent in the third quarter, from 9 percent a year earlier.

Its margins on operating profit climbed to 11.6 percent in its commercial airplane business, from 9.5 percent in the third quarter of 2012.

In Boeing’s military business, revenue increased just 3 percent in the latest quarter. That unit’s operating profit fell by 19 percent as a result of cuts in military spending in many countries.

Boeing shares rose $6.54, or 5.3 percent, Wednesday to close at $129.02.

Mr. McNerney also reiterated on Wednesday that Boeing’s board was close to formally approving the start of the design work on an updated version of the 777, called the 777x, that would be ready for delivery around 2020. Japan Airlines, which had previously bought only Boeing planes, recently announced it would buy 31 Airbus A350s, which will be ready for delivery sooner than the 777x.

“Obviously, that’s a campaign we did not want to lose,” Mr. McNerney said. But he noted that Lufthansa, the German airline and longtime Airbus customer, had recently agreed to buy 34 777x’s. Emirates and other airlines have said they will place large orders for the 777x once it is formally introduced.
600 2013-10-24 In a note to clients on Wednesday, analysts at Energy Aspects in London said, “The closure of the petrochemical site will involve 700-800 job losses so further industrial action seems quite probable.”

The announcement puts pressure on the British and Scottish governments to intervene, though neither appears to have easy options.

“Even at this late stage, I urge Ineos to continue dialogue with the work force, and government will offer help and support with this,” Edward Davey, Britain’s secretary for energy and climate change, said in a statement.

The closure of the plant is a major issue for the Scottish government, which is heading toward a referendum on independence next year. Grangemouth is Scotland’s only petroleum refinery, normally producing about 80 percent of products like jet fuel consumed in the country.

Most analysts believe that closure of the refinery might cause short-term disruptions but that over time the refined products could easily be supplied by other refineries in Europe that have plenty of spare capacity. Rob West, an analyst at Bernstein Research, noted that “Europe’s largest refining hub is just across the southern North Sea at Rotterdam.”

Ineos’s willingness to scrap a key industrial facility shows how difficult the refining and petrochemical situation is in Europe. Mr. West estimated that there is 15 percent overcapacity in the European refining industry, while the situation in petrochemicals is worse.

European refiners are being squeezed by weak demand as well as product imports from the United States and the Middle East, according to Richard Mallinson, an analyst at Energy Aspects.

Another concern is that the key Forties Pipeline, which transports oil from about 80 fields in the North Sea and is powered by steam from a generating plant at Grangemouth, might be disrupted. But so far Ineos has kept the generating plant open.

Ineos had earlier threatened to shut down the petrochemical plant by 2017 unless employees accepted a “survival” plan involving pension cuts and some layoffs. The company also asked for £125 million, or $202 million, in support from the British and Scottish governments, mostly in the form of loan guarantees, to build a terminal to import from the United States low-cost raw materials for petrochemical production at the plant.

Ineos asked workers to accept a shift away from a pension plan with defined benefits to a lower-cost retirement savings plan with defined contributions, akin to an American-style 401(k). Employees who accepted were also promised up to £15,000 as incentives. The company says that it is now paying 65 percent of employees’ salaries into the pension plan.

As for the refinery, there still seems to be some prospect that it will survive, although it may require substantial capital investment at a time when most analysts think that several more European refineries will close.

One source of protection may be PetroChina of Beijing, the Ineos partner, which may not want to lose an asset in the West. “We hope a consensus can be reached between Ineos, the Unite union and other parties involved,” PetroChina said Tuesday in a statement.
601 2013-10-24 Those two characters, named “Neanter” and “Le Patibulaire,” will move through the exhibition that retraces the story of “Coucou Bazar” and Dubuffet’s iconic “Hourloupe” cycle, mingling with the other costumes (worn by mannequins) on the restored stage scenery — called “practicables” — thanks to detailed production notes that the artist left behind. A film of the third “Coucou Bazar” performance, which finally satisfied Dubuffet when it was staged in Turin in 1978, will be shown in a room dedicated to that staging.

“The director must contend with being at the mercy of a story that is beyond him,” said Sophie Webel, head of the Dubuffet Foundation in Périgny-sur-Yerres, France, which was established by the artist in 1973 and today guards some 1,500 of his works, including the elements of “Coucou Bazar.” “We’re lucky to have the footage of the Turin staging, which had Dubuffet’s full support,” she added. “So we could either recreate Turin or re-imagine something close to that. We try to respect the spirit of the artist’s work but we will never know if we are exact.”

There were early thoughts of re-staging “Coucou Bazar” in full, but there were too many obstacles, Ms. Webel said. The props are fragile and considered works of art, valued and insured for considerable amounts. After almost 40 years, the costumes had aged and become “worn down and unstable.” The materials, mainly epoxy resin, latex, varnish and wood, would most likely not be considered safe for a contemporary theater stage. “We would have had to produce doubles of all the ‘practicables’ and the costumes, an entire second set,” Ms. Webel said.

In the end, one costume was deemed too frail for the new exhibition. Over nearly three months last summer, those working on costume restoration took apart some of the copies of eight of the costumes that Dubuffet had created, using some parts to fix the originals.

At the Arts Décoratifs, one room will recreate the staging area Dubuffet organized in his vast workspace in a former munitions factory in Vincennes, a suburb of Paris. It gives a view of how each costume was built piecemeal onto the dancer, a bit like cartoonish body armor.

The costumes are cumbersome, weighing up to about 10 kilograms each, or 22 pounds, with the one for the character “Le Patibulaire” among the heaviest. As the weight can make the dancers tilt and jerk, risking injury, the restorers paid particular attention to the insides of several costumes. “The costumes are deliberately constricting, they impede the movements so as to effectively frame them,” Ms. Duplaix said. “You can’t help thinking about the first steps on the moon, which at the time was still quite fresh in people’s minds.”

Dubuffet’s numerous scribbled instructions provide insight into his idea of creating a “continuum of the world,” bridging the gap between things seen and ignored. He questioned how people separate objects from their background, and suggested that they had lost the habit of noticing the space in between. With “Coucou,” he aimed to bridge painting, sculpture and theater, adopting some of the playwright and director Antonin Artaud’s ideas while producing something entirely different from Artaud’s plays.

The penchant for careful precision movement, and perhaps the masks of Balinese theater, found an echo in Dubuffet’s esthetic, but “Coucou Bazar” was infinitely more measured and good-natured than the disturbing bodily psychosis executed in Artaud’s “Theater of Cruelty.” Still, Dubuffet would not feel a stranger to Artaud’s famous line that “where others present their works, I claim to do no more than show my mind.”

“His notes are like little manifestos,” Ms. Duplaix said.

A swarming musical tapestry of crackling and quirky chirps adds to the disorientating effect of “Coucou Bazar.” The New York and Paris performances of 1973 were scored by Ilhan Mimaroglu, a Turkish-born composer who had also produced records for the jazz legend Charles Mingus in the early 1970s. Having been inspired to return to music himself, Dubuffet used his own recordings in Turin. Those experiments, with improvised or modified instruments and tape recorders, will be heard at the Arts Décoratifs. “Dubuffet’s idea was that you should lose your bearings and find yourself before this nascent world of the animated painting,” Ms. Duplaix said.

“I’ve heard that the original performances required some audience stamina,” Ms. Webel said. “They were 50 to 55 minutes long, and somewhat deranging. You were looking at a stage where things happened or didn’t happen, and always slowly. You expected a narrative, and there was none. But it was all intended that way.”

“Coucou Bazar” was unique in its day, but performance art has since gained wide acceptance. “He was ahead of his time, in terms of his scenography,” Ms. Webel said. “Thirty years ago, it might have shocked some people. Today, spectators are more used to seeing such things.”

“My show will no doubt be blamed for being out of category,” Dubuffet said in 1973, while preparing “Coucou Bazar” for the Grand Palais. “Its status is evidently ambiguous,” he continued, “painting is its only source. It is like a painting that would cease to be merely a picture to look at, but would gain a real existence and welcome you within itself.”
602 2013-10-24 MADRID — Spain pulled out of a two-year recession in the third quarter, with its economy growing 0.1 percent from the previous quarter, according to preliminary data released Wednesday by the Spanish central bank.

While anticipated, the growth news will likely provide a fillip for the conservative government of Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy, which, since coming into office almost two years ago, has pushed through deeply unpopular spending cuts and tax hikes in order to comply with budgetary targets in accordance with Spain’s European partners.

“The worst is over,” said Holger Schmieding, chief economist at Berenberg Bank in London, in a note published Wednesday, noting a turnaround in net Spanish exports.

“One by one, the euro crisis countries are returning to growth after a savage adjustment recession,” he said, noting that Greece, Ireland and Portugal showed signs of expansion earlier this year. Concerning Spain’s prospects, Mr. Schmieding added: “As the slide in domestic demand peters out, the ongoing surge in exports will drive growth.”

Still, Spain is not expected to return to precrisis growth levels for several years as it continues to struggle with weak consumer spending and an unemployment rate of about 26 percent. Last month, the government presented its budget for 2014 based on a forecast that the Spanish economy will grow 0.7 percent next year. Gross domestic product is expected to contract 1.3 percent this year, according to Mr. Rajoy’s government.
603 2013-10-24 “It’s a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for the E.C.B.,” said Harald Benink, a professor of banking and finance at Tilburg University in the Netherlands. “They have a clear incentive to be tough.”

Mr. Draghi said in an interview with Bloomberg Television that the E.C.B. would not hesitate to fail banks in a planned test of their ability to withstand shocks.

“Banks do need to fail,” he said. “The test is credible because the ultimate purpose of it is to restore or strengthen private-sector confidence in the soundness of the banks.

“Ultimately that’s the objective,” Mr. Draghi added, “to have private-sector money to be put into the banking industry.”

The review of about 130 large lenders is intended to address one of the underlying problems in the euro zone economy by forcing weak banks to deal with problems such as bad loans or insufficient capital. Credit remains tight in much of Europe, in part because many banks are burdened with bad loans or because they lack confidence from investors and are unable to raise money on capital markets. Without credit a vibrant recovery is almost impossible.

The E.C.B. assessment is also a prelude to a significant expansion of the bank’s powers, which are already vast. In November, immediately after finishing the review, the E.C.B. will become the bank supervisor for the euro zone, responsible for policing the banking system and guaranteeing its stability.

There have been questions about what will happen if the E.C.B. finds banks with grave problems. No one really knows to what extent some banks in Italy, Spain, Germany and other countries may be covering up losses from bad mortgages, business loans or other investments. Estimates of potential hidden losses run into the hundreds of billions of euros.

“There is fundamental disagreement at the highest European level who is going to absorb losses and who is going to pay to resolve problems,” Mr. Benink said. “If it is not clear who is going to pay these backstops, you cannot have a credible review.”

Ignazio Angeloni, an E.C.B. official overseeing the review, expressed confidence that political leaders will resolve those issues by the time the assessment is finished. “All of those elements are in the making, and they will fall into place,” he said at a news conference Wednesday.

Unlike the United States, Europe has never really forced banks to confront their problems in a way that rebuilt trust among investors. That was partly because national bank supervisors were overly protective of their own banks. In theory, the E.C.B. would be more willing to put pressure on financial institutions. There are already indications that the threat of E.C.B. scrutiny has ignited a fire under banks and national supervisors.

“We expect that this assessment will strengthen private-sector confidence in the soundness of euro area banks and in the quality of their balance sheets,” Mr. Draghi said in a statement.

Mr. Angeloni said that banks will be required to hold capital equal to 8 percent of their money at risk, double the current level. But the requirement will be phased in from 2014 to 2018, in line with new regulations for European Union banks.

He also said that the E.C.B. will look closely at banks’ holdings of euro zone government bonds, a politically sensitive task since banks in countries like Italy are believed to hold large quantities of their own country’s bonds. Current E.U. regulations treat euro zone government bonds as if they were risk-free, despite a crisis that proved otherwise. Banks do not have to hold capital against government bonds to absorb losses.

The E.C.B. said it would also look at risks from derivatives and other investments that are often hard to value. And the E.C.B. will scrutinize banks’ sources of funding. One lesson of the financial crisis was that many banks were overly dependent on short-term loans that dried up after the collapse of the investment bank Lehman Bros. in 2008.

The review will also include a stress test, which gauges banks’ ability to deal with shocks such as a sudden economic downturn.

Working with national regulators, the E.C.B. will look at lenders that account for 85 percent of the euro zone banking system. The list, which the E.C.B. published Wednesday, includes household names like Deutsche Bank in Germany and BNP Paribas in France, but also some banks that attract less attention, such as Volkswagen Bank in Germany, which provides car financing.

Several subsidiaries of foreign banks are also on the list, including The Bank of New York Mellon in Belgium and Merrill Lynch International Bank in Ireland.

If some banks need more money, the E.C.B. said, they should first try to raise money from private investors. If they are unable to, governments would need to step in. It remained unclear whether a country like Italy, which has a number of weak banks and is stuck in recession, would be able to afford another bank rescue.

“It is essential to ensure that any banks that have viable business models, but are required to build additional capital for prudential reasons, will be able to obtain such additional resources within an appropriate time frame,” the E.C.B. said in a statement.
604 2013-10-25 The Milanese artisans of Carlo Colla & Sons Marionette Company who create sets, bodies and tiny costumes will also serve as puppeteers in a performance at the New Victory Theater in Times Square, beginning Nov. 1.

Since the 19th century, Carlo Colla & Sons Marionette Company has been handcrafting marionettes and putting on puppet theater productions in Milan. About 30 years ago, the company found it needed more puppets, but couldn’t find the artisans to make them. “We wanted to go on, to follow the tradition,” said Piero Corbella, Colla’s general manager, who joined the company when he was 12, more than four decades ago. So the company opened its own atelier and has since more than tripled its original inventory of 900 marionettes.

Next Friday, 11 puppeteers from the internationally renowned theater will bring Colla’s version of “Sleeping Beauty” stateside to the New Victory Theater in New York. The play, set to Tchaikovsky’s ballet score, will be an entirely handmade production. The same people who will move the strings of the 165 two-to-three-foot-tall marionettes that will grace the stage of the New Victory Theater also carved them, painted their faces, made their wigs out of human hair and assembled their parts. Here’s a closer look at what it takes to put on a modern-day marionette show.
605 2013-10-25 Women who choose to give birth at home may be increasing the likelihood of some health risks for their babies....
606 2013-10-25 This recipe — which calls for live marine phytoplankton and, of course, kale — might ward off that cold that’s been going around....
607 2013-10-25 Vettel is getting ready to move into a neighborhood that has few other inhabitants. A win on Sunday would give him 36 victories in 117 starts, fourth on the career list, though it must be assumed that most of his career is still ahead of him. Schumacher’s record is a long way off, and Fangio, who entered Formula One at age 40 and retired at 48, drove only 52 races in an era when as few as seven a year counted for the title. He won 24 of his starts, the best winning percentage of all. Prost is second on the career victory list with 51 in 202 starts, and Ayrton Senna of Brazil is third with 41 in 162.

Schumacher won his 91 in 249 starts from 1992 through 2006, first with Benetton and then with Ferrari, where he had his greatest success. He retired after the 2006 season, trieda comeback with Mercedes-Benz in the 2010-12 seasons and demonstrated that that either the cars weren’t competitive or he had lost his edge, or both. There were 58 starts, no wins.

Successful second acts in auto racing are a rarity.

Vettel has much to look forward to, but first there is the matter of India. To get to seven championships, much less eight, you first have to pass four. He has what is generally considered to be the fastest car, designed by Adrian Newey, acknowledged to be the best designer of this era. There is an excellent supporting cast assembled by the Austrian Dietrich Mateschitz, who has turned his Red Bull energy drink into a worldwide brand.

In the competition for the constructor’s championship, Red Bull, which makes no roadgoing vehicles, only Formula One entries, has won that title the last three years and is about to do it again.

With such first-class support, all that is left is for Vettel to drive it, which makes him the linchpin. There are more than 600 people in the Red Bull racing organization, but he is the most visible one, who will get the credit or the blame if there is any. His job is simple, yet most complex.

“Driving a Formula One car,” Rudolf Uhlenhaut, the engineer for Mercedes-Benz and its racing team who died in 1989, once said, “is much easier than driving a passenger car. The steering is better, the brakes are better, and since you can see the front wheels you can place them exactly where you want them.”

Then he smiled, and added, “It only becomes difficult when you try to go fast.”
608 2013-10-25 Jessica Winter of Slate and The Times’s Ben Ratliff discuss the new Morrissey memoir, “Autobiography.”...
609 2013-10-25 Jobless claims higher than expected. A controversial beer slogan. Dealing with fear when selling....
610 2013-10-25 The jeweler, actor and man-about-town will stock unique items from artisans in his new boutique, opening in November, which takes inspiration from ancient trade routes....
611 2013-10-25 Q. I don’t have a subscription to the Office 365 site, so what’s the easiest way to read and edit Microsoft Word documents on an Android tablet?

A. The Google Play store has several apps for working with Microsoft Word files. When shopping for an app, check the feature list carefully, as some free programs allow you only to view files on your Android device, not edit them.

Apps that offer document editing include the $15 full versions of Documents To Go or OfficeSuite Pro 7, the free Kingsoft Office or the free Olive Office Premium. Features and user reviews vary by app, so study up before downloading to make sure you get everything you want.

Quickoffice, another popular app for working with Word files, was recently withdrawn from the Google Play store, but for a reason. Last year, Google bought the company behind the software, and last month it made Quickoffice free for Android and iOS users. The new Quickoffice app requires a free Google account and stores files online with Google Drive. The new version does not support online syncing and storage to other services like Dropbox, as previous versions did.

Using Folders in the Safari Bookmarks Bar

Q. How do I make a drop-down menu of related bookmarks on my Safari toolbar in Mac OS X 10.8?
612 2013-10-25 The company will price its shares at $17 to $20, and will make its eagerly awaited offering on Nov. 6....
613 2013-10-25 “I’ve never owned a car with an automatic transmission,” Ms. Howard said with a hint of pride in her voice.

After college, Ms. Howard married Scott Howard, a risk management expert for J.P. Morgan, who shared her love for beautiful cars. Before their marriage, Ms. Howard’s father sold his prized MG Midget to her for $1. It would serve as the Howards’ weekend ride for nearly three decades. Mr. Howard was responsible for introducing his wife to the Lotus brand.

“He took me to a car show in Manhattan in the early ‘70s, and he said, ‘You’ve got to see these cars, Sue. They’re just phenomenal,'” Ms. Howard said. She added that the show featured several Lotus models, including an Elite, a Europa and an Elan. “I liked all of them, but the Elite really blew me away.”

Life was busy for the next three decades, and the couple’s passion for sports cars took a back seat to business. Mr. Howard rose through the ranks at J.P. Morgan while Ms. Howard thrived as an art teacher and sculptor.

Everything changed when Mr. Howard died in 1998, leaving Ms. Howard unexpectedly alone for the first time in her life. “We were pretty much inseparable,” she said. “He was bright, witty and very good looking — a great buddy.”

Ms. Howard said that it was about four years after his death that she began to explore her automotive passion.

“I needed time to collect myself and figure out what the rest of my life was going to be about,” she said. Her husband’s death inspired a sense of immediacy in her. “Scott always said that he would do things later, when he retired. He never got anywhere near that. So I know there is never a second to lose, in a sense.”

With her husband gone, Ms. Howard turned to her dog Encore, another black miniature poodle, to serve as her co-pilot — both in life and on the road. Together, the two completed a 10,000-mile, cross-country, winter road trip that took them from the Great Plains of North Dakota west to Lake Tahoe in Nevada and north to Seattle, via the Pacific Coast Highway.

“Scott and I never got to do the trip together, but it was something we had always wanted to do,” Ms. Howard said. “I would do it again in a flash — though maybe not in the middle of winter.”

Encore, who once joined Ms. Howard for a thrilling hot lap around the Indianapolis Motor Speedway in her Lotus Elise, died recently, one month shy of his 16th birthday, leaving Ms. Howard with an empty passenger seat.

But Draper, Ms. Howard’s newly adopted puppy, has already served as a worthy companion for a number of track days at the Watkins Glen International racetrack, in Watkins Glen, N.Y.

“I put him in his carrier in the Elise because I know there are going to be fast laps and I don’t want him to swing around,” Ms. Howard said, her hand resting softly atop Draper’s head.

As part of her bucket list, Ms. Howard recently made arrangements to donate her entire collection of cars to the Museum of Modern Art upon her death.

“The cars are dear to me, and I wouldn’t want some executor from a trust company to sell them to just anyone,” Ms. Howard said, noting that MoMA would most likely sell the collection upon receipt. “If MoMA chooses to sell them, they could place them appropriately and maximize the amount of money that would go to the museum.”

The museum, always happy for donations, has another connection with Ms. Howard. Emmett Watson, MoMA’s director of planned giving, is a car buff himself.

“Sue is a charmer, just a lovely person — we love to talk cars and art together,” he said. “We are very grateful that Sue has made this very generous provision to MoMA; we rely heavily on testamentary gifts to keep the museum thriving for generations to come.”

Ms. Howard makes frequent trips with Draper to the Performance Garage Club, a 15,000-square-foot storage center that caters to car enthusiasts.

“Sue is the real deal; she’s a true enthusiast, she’s knowledgeable, and she drives all of her cars equally,” Bill Thomas, owner of the Performance Garage Club and William Thomas Roadsters, said in an interview. “She’s living her dream and honoring her husband at the same time.”

Ms. Howard said that her husband would be excited to see all of the things she has done over the last decade.

“I think about him a lot when I am driving, and I really wish he were along for the ride,” she said.
614 2013-10-25 Sima Samar, one of the foremost human rights activists from Afghanistan, talks about the challenges Afghan women face....
615 2013-10-25 Top-ranked Serena Williams advanced to the semifinals of the WTA Championships in Istanbul by defeating Petra Kvitova, 6-2, 6-3, on Thursday. Williams, the defending champion, won all three matches in her group without dropping a set. She is bidding for her fourth title in the eight-woman season-ending tournament.

Earlier, Li Na outlasted Jelena Jankovic, 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, for her second victory, and eighth-seeded Angelique Kerber upset No. 3 Agnieszka Radwanska, 6-2, 6-2, to remain in contention for the semifinals. Radwanska was eliminated.
616 2013-10-25 Portuguese prosecutors on Thursday reopened an investigation into the disappearance of Madeleine McCann from her British parents’ hotel room six years ago, when she was 3. The case, one of the most notorious recent child-abduction cases in Europe, was formally closed in 2008. But after a campaign by the girl’s parents, Kate and Gerry McCann, British and Portuguese investigators began reviewing the evidence two years ago and independently uncovered new leads. In July, British officials opened a formal investigation, and now Portugal has followed suit. Portuguese investigators did not specify what the new leads were, but according to the police in London they are separate from the ones being followed in Britain. Teams from both countries met a week ago to compare notes and to brief the McCanns on the progress. Madeleine disappeared on May 3, 2007, from an apartment in a resort in Praia da Luz, Portugal, while her parents were having dinner at a nearby restaurant.
617 2013-10-25 Two influential agencies moved to classify an acid commonly used by dermatologists as a possible carcinogen....
618 2013-10-25 The Milanese artisans of Carlo Colla & Sons Marionette Company who create sets, bodies and tiny costumes will also serve as puppeteers in a performance at the New Victory Theater in Times Square, beginning Nov. 1.

Since the 19th century, Carlo Colla & Sons Marionette Company has been handcrafting marionettes and putting on puppet theater productions in Milan. About 30 years ago, the company found it needed more puppets, but couldn’t find the artisans to make them. “We wanted to go on, to follow the tradition,” said Piero Corbella, Colla’s general manager, who joined the company when he was 12, more than four decades ago. So the company opened its own atelier and has since more than tripled its original inventory of 900 marionettes.

Next Friday, 11 puppeteers from the internationally renowned theater will bring Colla’s version of “Sleeping Beauty” stateside to the New Victory Theater in New York. The play, set to Tchaikovsky’s ballet score, will be an entirely handmade production. The same people who will move the strings of the 165 two-to-three-foot-tall marionettes that will grace the stage of the New Victory Theater also carved them, painted their faces, made their wigs out of human hair and assembled their parts. Here’s a closer look at what it takes to put on a modern-day marionette show.
619 2013-10-25 Mr. Sharif came to talk about economic growth and Pakistan’s energy crisis, and to show that his country’s fragile democracy was taking root.

In return, the Obama administration offered an olive branch of almost $2.5 billion in mostly military aid.

But as Mr. Sharif flew to Washington, the United Nations released a report saying there was strong evidence that the drone program had Pakistani government approval. Amnesty International investigators asserted that civilian casualties were continuing in drone strikes despite American assurances. And a report in The Washington Post on Wednesday, based on leaked C.I.A. and Pakistani documents and published hours after Mr. Sharif met with Mr. Obama, offered striking new details of Pakistani cooperation on drone strikes.

“Mr. Sharif came to discuss other things. But it seemed as if it was only about drones,” said Adil Najam, a professor of international relations at Boston University.

In some ways, leaders of both countries are being haunted by an ambiguity that they deliberately cultivated for years.

Pervez Musharraf, Pakistan’s former military leader, initially allowed drones to operate from Pakistan in 2004, but was given little choice when the Bush administration ramped up the program four years later.

And in some cases, American drone killings suited Pakistani objectives, like the strike that killed the Pakistani Taliban leader Baitullah Mehsud.

As diplomatic cables published by WikiLeaks in 2009 showed, Pakistani military and political leaders cooperated with some of those strikes.

Yet Pakistani leaders dared not start an open debate in their own country because of deep-seated anti-Americanism that was driven by the war in Afghanistan and events like the commando raid that killed Osama bin Laden.

American officials have for the most part kept silent — bound by the legal constraints of a classified C.I.A. program, but also taking advantage of the remoteness of the drones’ main stalking grounds: North and South Waziristan, where few independent observers can travel.

Behind the scenes, Americans have been briefing selected Pakistani leaders.

Earlier this year, a senior American official told The New York Times that a small number of Pakistani officials had been “read into” the drone program.

The strikes resulted in a diplomatic charade of sorts. American diplomats sometimes spoke with weariness about being summoned to dressings-down at the Pakistani Foreign Ministry headquarters, close to the United States Embassy in Islamabad.

But the drumbeat of revelations about Pakistani knowledge of drone strikes has made that position harder to maintain.

And in the United States, there has been a vocal debate this year about the legal transparency and ethical standards of the drone program. That is a change, because for a long time the drone program’s technological abilities outpaced both the law and diplomacy.

Cameron Munter, a former ambassador to Pakistan, left his job in 2012 after a series of bruising disagreements with the C.I.A. station chief over drone strikes. And lawyers argued over whether the strikes, which pushed on new boundaries of international law, were legal.

Since the beginning of this year, however, a pitched debate has been quietly under way inside the Obama administration, leading to Mr. Obama’s landmark speech on drones in May, in which he promised new limits to the program. Notably, the strike rate has dropped dramatically in Pakistan, including during national elections in May.

For all that, few believe that the drones will derail talks between the two countries on other major issues: the situation in Afghanistan after American troops leave next year, relations with India, and managing Pakistan’s nuclear security — not to mention rescuing the floundering economy and resolving the energy crisis.

And there is little doubt that, all things being equal, Mr. Sharif would like to end the drone strikes. The question is how.

On Thursday, the Foreign Ministry rejected suggestions that Mr. Sharif’s government had been complicit in recent drone strikes.

But whatever the truth, those protestations are likely to be met with raised eyebrows from an increasingly skeptical Pakistani public. “Pointing to the U.S. and saying, ‘There’s nothing we can do about drones’ is less and less of an option,” said Professor Najam. “As more questions are asked, these uncomfortable answers will have to come forth.”
620 2013-10-25 DURHAM, N.C. — THE September jobs numbers, finally released this week after the government reopened, indicate that the job market remains on a painfully slow upward trajectory. Unemployment has fallen a full percentage point since early 2012, but at this pace, our economy could still be years away from its prerecession level. To make faster progress, many analysts are banking on job growth from two key sectors, education and health care.

“Ed and meds” have already accounted for a significant share of employment growth over the past several years. More important, these jobs are the only thing keeping many small and midsize American cities from sliding into deeper decline. Several regions are consciously building around these services under the logic that they cannot be outsourced, and local demand will continue to grow. Unfortunately, both assumptions are wrong, and that could mean bad news for many local job markets around the country.

Education and health care jobs are so attractive because unlike manufacturing jobs, which have steadily declined over the last 25 years, they are largely shielded from global competition. As a society we continue to spend large sums of money, both in the public and private sector, on educating our students and caring for the health of our citizens. Since good jobs will increasingly require more education and our population is aging, the long-term outlook for these sectors looks positive. Education and health care also create jobs across income distribution, providing work for home health aides as well as college professors.

However, while the total number of jobs in these sectors could grow, it is not likely that all regions would benefit equally. For example, one might take for granted that there will be growing demand for orthopedic surgeons in Toledo, , and educational administrators in Iowa City. But the same forces that led other industries to cluster in specific regions (think technology in Silicon Valley or banking in New York) are now sweeping through education and health care.

Consider the education market. The rise in online education, specifically massive open online courses, is expanding the number of students a top university can educate. The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, one of the top business schools in the world, recently announced that it would offer four of its “foundation” courses online for free through ; students can receive a certificate of verification for $49 for each course completed. A certificate might not be as valuable as an M.B.A. from your local university but it could be in 5 to 10 years.

What will happen to enrollment at lower-ranked business schools when students have the opportunity to take courses à la carte at Wharton for less than the cost of their monthly cellphone bill? The best schools will attract more and more students, while the middle- and lower-tier institutions will mostly struggle, leading to less local demand for college administrators, tutors and faculty.
621 2013-10-25 A year ago next week, Hurricane Sandy swamped Ellis Island and its immigration museum, ruining its electrical and air-conditioning systems and prompting the removal of most of its collection of artifacts.

Although much of the damage remains unrepaired, the National Park Service announced on Thursday that it would reopen the island to visitors on Monday. That day will also be the 127th anniversary of the dedication of the Statue of Liberty, which stands on its own island in New York Harbor, a short — though illegal — swim from Ellis Island.

Tourists with tickets to ride a ferry to the statue will again have the choice to disembark on Ellis Island. They will be able to tour the main floor of the immigration museum and climb the stairs to the Great Hall, where doctors inspected millions of immigrants for contagious diseases.

Most of the artifacts remain in storage in Maryland. The gift shop will be open but the restaurant will not.

A Park Service spokesman, John Warren, said the museum would probably not be fully restored before the spring. The Park Service estimated that it would cost $77 million to repair the damage to the statue and Ellis Island.

Still, the plan for the limited reopening was a relief to the companies that operate concessions around the monuments. “We’re just excited that Ellis has been reopened,” said Rafael Abreu, the director of sales and marketing for Statue Cruises, which runs the ferries to the islands.

The company will take passengers from Battery Park in Manhattan to Liberty Island, which reopened on July 4, and then to Ellis Island. Boats that depart from Liberty State Park on the New Jersey side of the harbor stop first at Ellis. The fare for adults is $17.
622 2013-10-25 Prime Minister Viktor Orban, in an interview with an Israeli newspaper this year, firmly excluded the possibility of any kind of cooperation with the far-right Jobbik party, and he and his government are strongly committed to combating anti-Semitism. These efforts have been acknowledged by several international officials, including members of Congress and the Council of Europe, and by the Anti-Defamation League.

The rise of a far-right party is not only a Hungarian phenomenon; sadly, it is happening elsewhere in Europe. The Freedom Party of Austria won 27 percent of the vote in 1999, and the National Front in France received 18 percent of the vote in the first round in 2012.

You write that Robert Alfoldi was “ousted as director of the National Theater,” but he had completed his five-year mandate, two years under this government. After its expiration, the relevant ministry invited applications for the position.

The writer is deputy state secretary for international communications for the Hungarian government.
623 2013-10-25 Colleges have tried to get the word out for years about discounting and net prices, but “it hasn’t been terribly successful,” said Richard Ekman, president of the Council of Independent Colleges, an alliance of more than 600 private institutions. Though consumers have access to vastly more information about costs, through federal reports and databases, and the net price calculators that colleges are now required to post on their Web sites, he said, “Much of the public has trouble trying to make sense of these numbers.”

Colleges could simply lower their prices and offset them by reducing discounts, and a few have gone that route, but it goes against the prevailing consumer psychology.

“Some segment of the public is delighted to know that it costs a large number to go there, but their own son or daughter has received a scholarship,” Mr. Ekman said.

But college administrators worry that they may be approaching a breaking point in their ability to keep raising prices, whether or not those prices reflect what most people really pay. And many of the less-wealthy private colleges feel threatened by the rise of inexpensive online courses and degree programs, and a decline in the college-age population.

Public colleges have seen net prices rise sharply, particularly since the last recession began, as they have raised prices to offset plummeting state aid, though this year’s sticker price increases are the smallest in decades. The newest, smallest segment of the market, for-profit colleges, have also had significant increases in recent years.

For private, nonprofit colleges, the combination of higher posted prices and deeper discounts has resulted in bigger disparities in what different students pay: those with low incomes pay lower net prices than they did a decade ago, while those who earn more pay more.

Experts on college pricing say they worry about how that has affected people whose incomes are somewhat above average — those who neither qualify for generous need-based aid, nor are affluent enough to shrug off increases.

A federal government study, cited in the College Board report, showed that for a family in the second-highest quartile of family incomes, the net cost of sending a student to a private college rose almost 8 percent from 2003-4 to 2011-12, more than the increase for people in the top quartile.

“What’s happening with that upper-middle group is a real concern,” said Catharine Bond Hill, president of Vassar College and an economist who has researched college costs extensively. “The net price for them is pretty challenging.”
624 2013-10-25 “This case highlights the nationwide scourge of dark money nonprofit networks hiding the identities of their contributors,” Ann Ravel, the commission’s chairwoman, said in a statement.

Last year, as California voters faced two major ballot initiatives — one, Proposition 30, which would raise taxes on the wealthy, and another, Proposition 32, which would prohibit unions from using automatic payroll deductions to raise money for political campaigns — a Republican consultant, Anthony Russo, began raising money in connection with the two initiatives.

Some of the money went into political action committees in California, which are required to disclose their contributors. But roughly $29 million came from a group of 150 California donors who wished their contributions to remain secret, among them the billionaire investor Charles R. Schwab and Gene Haas, a prominent businessman and philanthropist. Those contributions were directed to Americans for Job Security, a Virginia-based conservative group that is not required to disclose donors, to spend on issue advertisements.

In September 2012, with the election drawing near, Americans for Job Security concluded that California law might require disclosure of some of those contributions, and began transferring a total of $24.6 million to the Center to Protect Patient Rights, which was founded by Sean Noble, a Republican operative. Mr. Noble has worked closely with Koch-founded political groups and been a featured speaker at the brothers’ biannual donor conferences; he also worked closely with Mr. Russo to help draft the strategy in California.

A donor working with Mr. Russo called and e-mailed Charles Koch several times early that October, according to an e-mail obtained by investigators, seeking a contribution of “several million” for the effort and praising Mr. Noble. “Sean Noble from your group has been immensely helpful in our efforts,” the donor wrote. “I look forward to seeing you on a golf course — probably after the election.”

The center is not formally controlled by the Kochs, and Robert A. Tappan, a Koch spokesman, said neither brother ultimately contributed to the California effort. “We did not support, either directly or indirectly, this ballot initiative, which would have restricted public and private sector employees’ rights to contribute to candidates,” Mr. Tappan said.

California requires that the underlying sources of money behind significant political spending be disclosed. To skirt this regulation, when the Virginia-based group gave $25 million to the Center to Protect Patient Rights, it did not specifically earmark any of those funds for the California referendums. But the group made clear that it hoped the center would financially support the efforts in California to block the income tax increase and blunt unions’ political power.

The center obliged, transferring $25 million during the same period to two other groups: Americans for Responsible Leadership, in Arizona, and the American Future Fund, an Iowa-based conservative group with close ties to the Koch network. Mr. Russo told investigators that the transfer was made with the understanding that some of the money would be used to assist two California organizations active in the referendum battles, the commission said Thursday. Proposition 30 passed, and Proposition 32 was defeated.

Under the terms of the settlement, the Center to Protect Patient Rights acknowledged that it should have disclosed itself as the source of the donations to both of the California groups, the Small Business Action Committee and the California Future Fund for Free Markets.

The investigation into the center has already had repercussions within the Koch political world, which is relying less on the center to transfer money to allied political groups, instead using a group controlled more directly by Koch executives.

Malcolm Segal, a lawyer for the center, said in a statement, “The commission today recognized that C.P.P.R. acted in ‘good faith’ and that there was absolutely no intent to violate campaign reporting rules.”
625 2013-10-25 The earnings of $5.24 billion beat expectations, and were helped in large part by a surge in the company’s corporate software business....
626 2013-10-25 International human rights advocates say that rather than address the underlying grievances — including Beijing’s deeply unpopular campaign to demonize the Dalai Lama, the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader — Chinese authorities have responded with even harsher policies that punish the relatives of those who self-immolate and imprison those who disseminate news of the protests to the outside world.

Exile groups and analysts say Labrang and a handful of other monasteries across the vast Tibetan plateau in Central Asia have become showcases for Beijing’s strategy, which seeks to stifle dissent in well-trafficked tourist sites without scaring away visitors.

Monks here describe a largely unseen web of controls that keep potential troublemakers in line: ubiquitous surveillance cameras, paid informers and plainclothes security agents who mingle among the busloads of tourists. Hidden from the throngs are the political education sessions during which monks are forced to denounce the Dalai Lama. Stiff jail sentences await those who step out of line. “If we don’t obey, it will be terrible for us,” the monk said.

Founded in the early 18th century, the Labrang Monastery is tucked into the dusky hills of northwestern Gansu Province. Each day, hundreds of Chinese tourists arrive to spin colorful prayer wheels lining the monastery perimeter and sip tea at hotels designed to resemble Tibetan nomadic tents. Along the town’s main street, they buy turquoise-encrusted amulets, dress up in monks’ robes and take turns trying on the ceremonial yellow hats that resemble mohawk-style haircuts. Officials hope that a recently completed airport will draw even bigger crowds.

In a monastery courtyard surrounded by whitewashed mud walls, a Chinese family from the provincial capital, Lanzhou, knelt down to pray to Buddha. “If you ask nicely, he’ll make your wish come true,” said the mother, Ming Yang, who acknowledged that her understanding of Buddhism ended there.

With an eye on the lucrative prestige of a Unesco World Heritage listing, the central government is giving the monastery a $26 million face-lift. Around 1,000 monks and 65,000 volumes of Buddhist scripture are housed in the sprawling complex, which local officials say is in dire need of structural improvements.

Yet locals complain that much of the construction is aimed at increasing tourism, rather than benefiting Tibetans. “It looks fancy, but in reality all the improvements are for Chinese people,” one said.

Tourism is rapidly reshaping much of the Tibetan plateau. According to the Xinhua state news agency, six million tourists visited Lhasa, the capital of the Tibetan Autonomous Region, in the first eight months of this year, a 20 percent increase over the same period in 2012. The boom has attracted several international hotel chains to the city, which is under de facto martial law.

In May, Tibetan exile groups started a boycott campaign against the InterContinental Hotels Group, which is building a 2,000-room luxury resort next to the historic residence once occupied by the Dalai Lama.

In the wake of violent anti-Chinese protests that swept Tibet in 2008 and the wave of self-immolations that followed, security forces have tightened their grip. The crackdown reaches deep into the folds of Tibetan spirituality. According to the International Campaign for Tibet, officials have posted notices in Tibetan areas declaring it illegal to pray for self-immolators or to show solidarity “by burning incense, chanting religious scriptures, releasing animals from killing and lighting candles.” At least two monks have been jailed for praying on behalf of self-immolators, the group said.

Exile groups say such tactics only alienate Tibetans further. “Even lighting a butter lamp or incense stick becomes an act against the state,” Kate Saunders, communications director for the organization, said from London.

Yet local enforcement has been erratic. Nowhere is this more clear than at Labrang, where a framed photo of the Dalai Lama sits on an altar beside a large golden Buddha. For years, the government has banned photos of the Dalai Lama and forbidden Tibetans to worship him as a religious figure. Monks at Labrang said they believed that local officials had decided to quietly tolerate such photos in an effort to head off further unrest.

On the tour, few of the Chinese day-trippers seemed to recognize the older, bespectacled man Beijing has called “a wolf in sheep’s clothing.” The monk guiding the group made no mention of his identity, lest it threaten the ticket sales and donations needed to cover operating costs.

But being the main attraction on a Buddhist safari has spiritual drawbacks.

“Chinese tourists just barge in when we’re studying,” a middle-aged monk said as he fingered a set of prayer beads. “It knocks on our minds, but they don’t care.”

Such complaints appear to be falling on deaf ears. During a tour of the region in July, China’s top official in charge of ethnic minorities, Yu Zhengsheng, insisted that economic development was the panacea for what ailed Tibetans. In the same breath, he condemned the Dalai Lama’s “middle way,” which calls for genuine autonomy in Tibet but not independence, saying it conflicts with China’s political system.

“Only when people’s lives have been improved can they be better united with the Chinese Communist Party and become a reliable basis for maintaining stability,” he said, according to Xinhua.

But local Tibetans seethe at China’s refusal to recognize their most basic aspirations. “Our hope is that the Dalai Lama can return,” said a monk, looking out for eavesdroppers while sitting at a cafe. “Without him, there is no chance our religion and culture will survive.”
627 2013-10-25 If Ty Tojo is hardly a household name to New York ticket buyers, he is a supernova in the alternate universe of juggling, jolting the variety world with dozens of YouTube and other videos documenting his exploits and star turns in international competitions. He holds Guinness world records for five-ball (248 catches) and seven-ball (69 catches) backcross juggling, in which balls are juggled behind the back and over the head.

If eyelids droop at the thought of grinning, bespangled, desperately sweating jugglers, Ty’s understated demeanor and overachiever skills are of a different order entirely, and his surprisingly sudden career trajectory is a window on the elite culture of the ever-mutating juggling craft. Ancient enough to have been depicted in an Egyptian tomb and recorded by early Aztec, Chinese, Indian and Polynesian civilizations, juggling was thought to be witchcraft in the Middle Ages.

It has gone on to be a cornerstone not only of traditional circuses but also of nouveau circuses like Big Apple and Cirque du Soleil. Over the last decade, a boomlet of amateur juggling groups, circus arts programs and amateur competitions has also brought juggling to the masses.

“Juggling is now more accessible to everyone than when I started,” said Mr. Burgess, who, at the age of 73, has taught New York University graduate acting students since the mid-1960s, including Billy Crudup and Marcia Gay Harden.

Dick Franco, Ty’s stepfather and trainer, said his student’s technical skill is an embodiment of precision and speed, thanks to his hand-eye coordination, long arms, large hands, sharp reflexes, sinewy strength and wiry 5-foot-9-inch frame.

Ty has long been a busy pupil. At his tender age, he has performed 3,000 shows in the United States, Japan, Italy, Germany, Monaco and the Bahamas, sometimes three times a day, seven days a week. He learned to juggle from Mr. Franco at the age of 8 and, at 9, first performed before an audience in the Bahamas in 2007, as part of Mr. Franco’s juggling act; when Ty was still 9, he performed on “The Tonight Show.” Ty, whose birth name is Tyler Tojo Fifield, was born in Las Vegas. Thanks to his Japanese mother, Maki Tojo, he has both Japanese and American passports, and worked in Japan for the first time — in Osaka — when he was 9.

At Big Apple, he juggles the seven-ball for 15 consecutive throws — for one minute and 16 seconds, to be precise — “and no one else does that,” Ty said.

Michel Barette, the show’s director, explained that “Ty performs as the first act in the show because he gives it the whip of energy that we need.”

That would be the backcross. “The frontcross is the norm in juggling, so the seven-ball backcross is pretty marvelous — highly patterned and almost strobic,” said Mr. Burgess of N.Y.U. These days, Ty is increasingly working on the nine-ball backcross.

As he was beginning yet another juggling rehearsal in the Walden practice hall, he inexplicably dropped a ball. “Wait — I think it hit my shirt,” he said.

He tucked in his shirttail. He picked up the ball. And then he tried again.
628 2013-10-25 BEIJING — Walmart, the world’s biggest retailer, is expanding its business in China as it seeks to raise profitability in a slowing retail sector.

At a news conference here on Thursday, the company announced plans to open as many as 110 facilities in China from 2014 to 2016, in addition to the 30 it opened this year.

Walmart has closed 11 stores in the country and is looking to shutter 15 to 30 more in the next 18 months, said Greg Foran, chief executive of Walmart China.

The company is tackling a fundamental change in China’s retail sector, with annual sales growth slowing and consumers moving toward shopping online.

Walmart wants to profit from China’s changing retail landscape by embracing e-commerce, which is expected to record 32 percent annual growth in the country between 2012 and 2015.
629 2013-10-25 The global mobile network infrastructure business is in transition as the main players revamp. The manufacturers are eager to take advantage of the growth of mobile data, as consumers around the world shift away from making voice calls on their smartphones to accessing the Internet on phones and tablets.

Nokia, the Finnish company that recently agreed to sell its handset division to Microsoft for $7.2 billion, is aiming to expand its own network systems business. Earlier this year, it acquired the remaining stake in Nokia Siemens Networks, its infrastructure unit, that it did not already own from Siemens.

The French-American company Alcatel-Lucent is also revamping, having announced this month that it would cut 10,000 jobs, or 14 percent of its global work force. Alcatel-Lucent wants to increase its profitability after several years of declining growth.

Market analysts say that Nokia or another mobile infrastructure company may look to acquire the struggling Alcatel-Lucent, as rivals position themselves for an expected increase in investment from cellphone carriers into high-speed fourth-generation networks.

Ericsson and its European competitors, however, are also under threat from Asian rivals like ZTE and Huawei, which are looking to increase their market shares in local and international markets alike.

In its earnings report, Ericsson said that a number of its mobile network projects in both North America and Japan were either completed or nearly finished. Sales in Northeast Asia, including Japan, fell 28 percent, to 6.1 billion kroner, in the third quarter, compared with the same period a year earlier. The region is the second-largest market by sales for the Swedish company, after North America.

“While the sales level was disappointing in the quarter, such volatility is not unusual in the industry, and increasing spending outside the U.S. is expected to lead to future growth,” said Janardan Menon, a telecommunications analyst at Liberum Capital in London.

Both North America and Northeast Asia have been engines of growth for Ericsson in recent years, while investment in other parts of the world, notably Europe, has waned.

Several European carriers like Telefónica of Spain and Telecom Italia are struggling to reduce their debt burdens and have put off infrastructure upgrades to their mobile phone networks.

One bright spot in Europe is the British carrier Vodafone, a big Ericsson customer, which announced in September that it would invest $9.7 billion after it sold its stake in the American company Verizon Wireless to its partner, Verizon Communications, for $130 billion.
630 2013-10-26 Via its Goldman Sachs Foundation, led by Dina Powell, the firm many associate with Wall Street greed and excess has staked out a position as one of the nation’s leading corporate philanthropists....
631 2013-10-26 In his testimony, Mr. Orr was asked by one of the city’s lawyers whether there was “any understanding” with the governor that he would pursue a Chapter 9 filing for Detroit.

Mr. Orr’s former law firm, Jones Day, is representing the city in the case. And Mr. Orr himself had extensive experience as a bankruptcy lawyer, including representing Chrysler when it went bankrupt in 2009.

Mr. Orr was just beginning to describe his tenure as emergency manager — and events leading up to the city’s Chapter 9 filing — when Judge Steven W. Rhodes of United States Bankruptcy Court ended testimony for the day.

Mr. Orr’s return to the stand on Monday will be part of what is expected to be a dramatic day in court. Besides Mr. Orr’s testimony, Mr. Snyder is scheduled to take the witness stand and answer questions from union lawyers about his role in taking Detroit into bankruptcy.

Mr. Snyder and Mr. Orr have both defended the filing as a necessary step to stem decades of deterioration in Detroit, which has lost more than half of its population since the 1960s and is consistently ranked as one of the most dangerous cities in America.

The filing estimates Detroit’s long-term debt as $18 billion, which includes pension obligations for the city’s active employees and 23,000 retirees.

Public employee unions and retiree groups contend that Mr. Snyder and Mr. Orr are seeking to cut pensions that are expressly protected by the Michigan Constitution.

Judge Rhodes will have to decide the constitutional issue as part of his overall deliberations on Detroit’s eligibility for Chapter 9.

The trial has so far focused on whether Detroit was technically insolvent when it filed on July 18, and whether Mr. Orr and his aides made good-faith efforts to bargain with creditors, including the unions, before pursuing bankruptcy.

Several consultants working for the city testified that Detroit was running out of cash this summer, and had no means to raise money through taxes, asset sales or additional borrowing.

One of the consultants, Kenneth A. Buckfire, testified that the city could not pay its bills, and that it was impossible to sell off assets quickly enough to meet its financial obligations.

“We had to consider Chapter 9 as an alternative to protect the city,” he said.

But lawyers for the unions and retirees disputed his account, noting that few assets, like the city’s Water Department, airport or arena, had been actively marketed for sale.

The union lawyers also questioned Mr. Buckfire and other consultants about documents that detailed internal preparations for bankruptcy, and were dated several days before the actual filing.

Testimony on Friday also included an appearance by Detroit’s new police chief, James Craig.

Chief Craig, who had been the police chief in Cincinnati, described his first reaction to Detroit’s dilapidated police cars and broken-down precinct houses when he started his job in July. “The conditions were deplorable,” he said.

He also said morale among the city’s 2,400 uniformed officers was “the lowest I’ve ever seen.”

But Chief Craig declined to say whether cutting police pensions might make morale even worse. “I would have to take a look at the full picture,” he said.
632 2013-10-26 Li Na reached the semifinals of the WTA Championships in Istanbul with a 6-2, 6-1 victory over Victoria Azarenka, who was wincing in pain from a back injury. The fourth-seeded Li will play Petra Kvitova, the 2011 champion, who rallied past Angelique Kerber, 6-7 (3), 6-2, 6-3, in the season-ending event.

■ David Ferrer, the defending champion, beat fifth-seeded Jerzy Janowicz, 6-4, 4-6, 6-0, to advance to the semifinals of the Valencia Open in Spain. Mikhail Youzhny outlasted Jarkko Nieminen, 7-5, 6-7 (4), 6-4, to move to a semifinal against his fellow Russian Dmitry Tursunov, who ousted Jeremy Chardy, 6-3, 6-3.

■ Marin Cilic’s suspension for doping was reduced to four months from nine, clearing him to play at the Paris Masters next week.
633 2013-10-26 Smith, a 26-year-old point guard, was not a force in training camp. Through the team’s first six preseason games, he had played 20 minutes and scored 3 points on 1-of-7 shooting. His 0.33 points per offensive play was the second-lowest average on the team, according to Synergy Sports.

Smith is a hard worker and a decent defender. But he has limitations. As a senior at Louisville in 2011-12, he averaged 9.7 points and 1.9 assists. Still, when it came time for the Knicks to make tough decisions, Smith had at least one considerable advantage over the five players who were waived: his older brother is J. R. Smith, the team’s mercurial but high-octane shooting guard.

Coach Mike Woodson said earlier this week that he anticipated the relationship would be a factor, adding he had “a great deal of respect for that family.” On Friday, Woodson said the team had made a commitment to Chris Smith, who was in training camp with the Knicks last season before injuring his left knee.

“I think when you make a commitment to a player, especially young players, you’ve got to develop them,” Woodson said. “He hasn’t had enough reps for us to realize if he’s going to be able to play. We really don’t know that. And only time will tell.”

Chris Smith said he was aware that he was taking a beating from fans on social media who questioned the decision.

“It bothers me a lot because people don’t really look at my talent,” he said.

The Knicks trimmed their roster to 15 players by releasing Ike Diogu, a 6-foot-8 power forward who had played well in the preseason; C. J. Leslie, an undrafted forward out of North Carolina State; Josh Powell, a forward who was shooting 30.8 percent; Chris Douglas-Roberts, a late addition to training camp; and Jeremy Tyler, a 22-year-old forward with potential. The Knicks seem to think highly of Tyler, but he did not play in any preseason games after having foot surgery.

“We needed a body,” Woodson said, “and he’s four, five weeks away, maybe even longer.”

Their departures cleared room for Toure Murry, a shooting guard who impressed the coaching staff in the summer league and throughout the preseason; Cole Aldrich, a center whose greatest asset, at the moment and for the foreseeable future, is his 6-foot-11 frame; and Chris Smith, whose inclusion also fueled speculation about the close ties between the Knicks and Creative Artists Agency.

C.A.A. represents several of the team’s players, coaches and executives, including Woodson, Carmelo Anthony and the Smith brothers. With Anthony planning to opt out of his contract next summer so he can explore free agency, the Knicks — and Steve Mills, the team’s new general manager — have been clear in their desire to do what they can to entice him to stay. Perhaps the decision to sign Chris Smith plays into that calculus.

J. R. Smith, who agreed this summer to a three-year contract worth nearly $18 million, said this week that he wanted his brother to make the team based on merit. Their relationship, he said, should not come into play. “That’s a crutch for him,” he said.

Chris Smith was asked if he thought his relationship with his brother had been a factor.

“Has it helped me? Of course,” he said. “I mean, that’s my big brother, and people look for us to be together all the time.”

At the same time, a fourth-string point guard does not appear to be one of the team’s most glaring needs. Woodson acknowledged that there was a logjam in the backcourt, and said Smith most likely would spend time in the N.B.A.’s Development League.

“The bottom line is, he’s on our team,” Woodson said.
634 2013-10-26 After all that boiled over into the players’ revolt, the involved parties tried to look forward this week, to turn the negative attention into an infusion of much-needed cash. Everyone was calling. Nike. Toyota. Muscle Milk. Alumni. Strangers. The coach of the Harlem Jets youth football program said his players had pooled all the money in their piggy banks. Contractors offered to install new flooring in the weight room. Locals volunteered to clean the facilities.

Saturday’s contest against Texas Southern loomed. ESPN wanted locker-room access. Everyone wanted parking. Will Sutton, director of public relations, juggled all this at his desk, his cellphone pinging, his office phone ringing, his in-box flooded and his voice mail full.

“The NFL Network is coming now,” he said to Tierra Smith, a student journalist in his office.

“Tell ’em to bring some money,” she replied.

The letter is dated Oct. 1 and addressed to Sandra Woodley, president of the University of Louisiana System, which oversees nine state universities. It is 32 pages and signed by 57 people, mostly members of the Grambling Legends and Friends of Football.

Embedded are several pictures: of a moldy locker-room floor before it was remodeled, of an uneven weight-room floor with tiles askew or missing, the concrete underneath exposed. Those pictures would spread across the Internet when the football players went on strike. But they were first addressed weeks earlier, in the letter, a copy of which was obtained by The New York Times, and in a meeting between the groups and Woodley on Sept. 21.

The issues behind the boycott had been percolating for about a year, members of the Legends said. That group included Larry Wright, who played basketball at Grambling and in the N.B.A. and served as the basketball coach at his alma mater from 1999 to 2008. Wright and others — like the former football stars Delles Howell and Henry Dyer — said the letter highlighted the fractured relationship between the Legends and Pogue’s administration. It called for Pogue’s dismissal and an investigation into the athletic department.

“The disconnect is the real problem,” Wright said. “It seems like it’s personal with Doug Williams, and it seems like they’re trying to sever ties with the legendary Eddie Robinson.”

Robinson, who died in 2007, was Grambling’s longtime football coach. He won 408 games, the second most in college football history. Williams was once his quarterback, before Williams went to the N.F.L., before he became the first black quarterback to win the Super Bowl and before Grambling twice hired him as coach.

Williams, who declined to comment, returned for his second stint in 2011, and it was Pogue who brought him back. They negotiated a contract laden with incentives and performance bonuses that the board that oversees the university system ultimately rejected, at least as they pertained to state funds. Williams led the Tigers to the Southwestern Athletic Conference championship that season, but when the performance bonuses were not paid, he sued.

That initial success marked the pinnacle of his return. The Tigers won one game last season. They lost every game this season leading to last week’s forfeit. This year’s team has only six seniors, and it no longer has Williams. After the second defeat, he was fired.

Ambushed, Dyer called it. The result of a power struggle between Williams, and by extension the fund-raising groups, and Pogue.

Kerry Briggs, who attended Grambling from 1975 to 1979, was a manager for football and basketball. He started Friends of Football two years ago because he said Grambling did not have an active booster group and had problems that desperately needed to be addressed. The group renovated the practice field, its surface uneven, pocked with ruts and holes. It redid the locker-room floor and installed a television in the weight room. In July, Briggs said, he wrote a personal check for $3,000 for Muscle Milk, which the players rationed.

“But there was retaliation against us and Coach Williams, mainly coming from his initial contract position,” Briggs said. “It’s almost like they had drawn a line in the sand.”

Incidents considered retaliatory included the firing of two football assistants this summer (they were reinstated); a $10,000 fee for the Legends’ on-campus induction ceremony when it was previously allowed without cost; a lack of banners or pieces of history in the basketball arena; a failure to celebrate the 25th anniversary of Williams’s Super Bowl triumph; and a flap over reserve parking signs.

Things worsened until someone phoned health department inspectors with an anonymous tip. The subsequent investigation found “flooring in poor repair” and “ceiling tiles in poor repair due to water damage” but no mold and no health hazard.

Pogue considered all this in his office Thursday and sighed. He noted that he had brought Williams back, that he had asked the Legends to hold its induction ceremony on campus. He said that “Doug Williams is my hero” and that “I don’t have any hard feelings toward Doug Williams. None.”

At issue, he said, is that the groups wanted to circumvent university protocol. Friends of Football raised $32,000 for a weight-room floor but refused to put the money in the university fund, for, they said, fear that it would not be used as intended. Pogue worried that circumventing procedures would run afoul of the N.C.A.A. Woodley supported Pogue in her response letter and urged cooperation.

“You know all those little boxes you see on an organizational chart,” Pogue said. “My job is making that work. And when I discover that a person in one of those boxes is unable to work with anybody, the organization is not working.”

Joyce Evans, general manager of KGRM-FM in Grambling, finds herself, like so many Gramblinites, caught between two friends. She attended Grambling with Williams. She respects Pogue. Both had dug in so deeply.

“I believe a lot of what happened last week is because Doug was fired,” she said in her office, as she reached for tissues. “I don’t know if the president knew what he was dealing with. Not only is Doug a son of Grambling, he’s a favorite son. We all know Doug’s personality. A number of people will tell you, you should never have brought Doug back here.

All the infighting exacerbated what Pogue sees as the real problem: financial strife that extends far beyond the football program.

The number of unfilled vacancies and laid-off employees reached 21 this year. The professors who remain are required to teach an extra class. Most classes contain additional students.

Around campus, a dilapidated building is unoccupied, its windows broken and paint chipped, a sign announcing a wellness center will be coming soon. The bowling alley has broken lanes; the library has stained, scuffed and uneven floors; the student union has a construction site out front.

David Ponton is the dean of students. Before that, he spent 20 years in athletics, many as the women’s basketball coach. Everyone calls him Coach P.

At first, the cuts he noticed for his program were trims. Buy two sets of uniforms instead of three. Buy one set of uniforms instead of two. Then his recruiting budget ceased to exist in 2007. He put an extra 25,000 miles on his Honda Accord, paid for his own gas, stayed with relatives on the road. He handed down old uniforms to the cheerleading coach.

That was bad. This is worse. Especially on the academic side.

“We’ve trimmed,” he said. “And trimmed. And trimmed. After a while, there’s no meat, there’s no bone, there’s no marrow.”

Added Pogue, as he spread his arms wide and grimaced: “We’re broke, man. That’s the bottom line.”

Since 2009, Gov. Bobby Jindal and the State Legislature cut $269 million from higher education. Grambling’s state support dwindled to $13 million from $31 million. Students from across the state system protested in Baton Rouge in 2010. They wore bandages to show they could not take any more cuts.

Grambling was hit particularly hard. It has a small student body (around 5,000), no large endowments and few financial reserves. Its small-town location afforded few corporate partnerships. It began to list itself as “state assisted” rather than “state funded.” This week, Pogue initiated the first institutional review since 2002.

The university system’s budgeted review showed, as Woodley said, that “Grambling has the worst financial situation” of the nine universities. Pogue went a step further. He said Grambling was the closest of those universities to financial exigency, basically the higher education equivalent of declaring bankruptcy.

The greatest cuts to the athletic department came this year: about $335,000, according to university officials. The Tigers play in the Football Championship Subdivision, a level below the top tier. The collective budgets of the football teams in their conference are less than that of the biggest programs by themselves. Last year, the Grambling football team accumulated a $1 million deficit.

In recent years, the university eliminated golf and men’s tennis. It reduced travel and support staff. The men’s basketball team finished last season 0-28. The women’s basketball team went 9-23. Track and field remained robust; every other team struggled. This spring, the student body will vote on whether to institute an athletics fee.

All the cuts have affected facilities. Ante Britten is the associate vice president for finance and administration, but his job is really three jobs melded into one. He said about 65 employees must maintain more than 500 acres of land and more than 1.6 million square feet of sprawling campus. Grambling once employed 11 grounds workers; it now employs six, both because of cuts and because it cannot find applicants to fill openings.

“It’s a lack-of-resource issue,” he said. “Not a competency or lack-of-concern issue.”

Some programs, like Grambling’s marching band, fare better than others. Dr. Larry Pannell is the director, and when he needed to endow a building, he wrote letters to the movie director George Lucas and the Hall of Fame quarterback John Elway. Lucas sent a check for $50,000; Elway for $10,000.

“This whole football thing, it hurt me so bad, man,” Pannell said. “The band and the football team are married. We put Grambling on the map. I survive the way Doug was trying to survive, and that is through connections we made throughout the years. I can make a phone call.”

The players sent their own letter to the administration. Their concerns included “facilities, equipment, travel arrangements, summer camp arrangements, alumni association and friends of football funding, and our head coach.”

The conditions of their complex, worse than at many of the players’ high schools, became the headlines. Mildew and mold on the ceiling, walls and floor, accompanied by water leaks and faltering walls and ceilings. The weight-room floor. Torn workout benches. Staph infections.

The players said that they paid for their own Gatorade and Muscle Milk. That they drank from water hoses underneath the stadium. That grass had grown up to their knees.

They cited bus trips to Kansas City and Indianapolis this season that took 31 hours total. Wright said that when he coached the basketball team, they flew to games like that.

They also complained about their interim coach, George Ragsdale. On the morning after players walked out of a meeting with Pogue last week, Ragsdale booted them from the weight room, according to two people who witnessed the scene.

The initial meeting with Pogue, though, centered on Williams. It was the first time Pogue had addressed the team since he dismissed Williams on Sept. 11. He said he wanted to allow Ragsdale time to form his own relationship with the players before he spoke to them. He said he had called the Tuesday meeting to assure them of the university’s support.

It had the opposite effect.

“When Doug was let go, they felt then that the last possible spokesperson was gone,” Douglas Porter, a former assistant coach and a longtime friend of the program, said as he watched Wednesday’s practice.

The football complex is named, oddly enough, the Stadium Support Facility. The paint on the Tiger statue out front is fading. The temperature inside is cold. Officials allowed reporters inside the weight room Wednesday, and there was the floor, the weight benches, everything aging and rusting, scuffed and stained.

A player poked his head inside, saw the reporters milling around. He turned back toward the trophy cases, one dedicated just to Williams, another to Robinson, others to the Legends. He walked back into the locker room.

Robinson’s tenure, his legend, his legacy, hung over the whole ordeal. His on-campus museum remained open, the lawn manicured out front, and various pictures of him — holding a football, at a chalkboard, with Minnie Mouse — in full view of cars that drove past.

Jon Moss, the manager of the Eddie G. Robinson Museum, grew up here. Back then, football players came over for dinner, and her mother washed basketball uniforms and her father took campus photographs for 50 years.

She walked through the museum Thursday, through the timeline room, where on a phone visitors can hear President Bill Clinton congratulate Robinson, and past the replica of his home office, past the Coke bottle with his picture on it and his College Football Hall of Fame blazer, past the wall filled with jerseys of N.F.L. players produced by Grambling, including Williams’s No. 12 Tampa Bay Buccaneers jersey.

What happened caused such a stir because of the history involved, because of Robinson, a man so revered, Evans said, that no one drove his black Cadillac after he died. They say it sits parked at the house he lived in.

The museum has experienced its own budget cuts, three times since it opened in 2010. Moss is the only employee left.

“I’m hoping a lot of good comes out of this,” she said. “It has to.”

At Gallot Barber Shop, where Williams has gotten his hair cut and where there is a poster of Robinson on the wall, the university’s unofficial historian, Mildred Gallot, reclined on a couch. Her husband used to give free haircuts to athletes who could not afford them. They called those the haircut scholarship.

She published a book in 1985 about the history of Grambling. Robinson was an integral character. The university president found him at a feed mill in Baton Rouge. He went 3-5 his first season, in 1941, and won every game the next one.

The 1960s and ’70s were the glory years. Evans, the radio station manager, said they locked the dormitories on home football Saturdays, and the entire student body attended games. So many outsiders would later celebrate victory No. 400. To her, it felt normal. Just another win.

“People have to understand, people in 2013, that when you say athletics at Grambling, you’re talking about football,” she said. “That’s the legacy. That’s why this hurts.”

Budget constraints existed from the outset. Robinson made do. He secured old uniforms from nearby Louisiana Tech. His teams stayed on the campuses of opponents and ate in their dining halls. His players packed their lunches for bus trips.

Glenn Lewis, the campus photographer and yearbook editor, arrived in 1971, “and the school was broke.” He took thousands of pictures, some of which were lost to a fire at Grambling Hall in the late ’80s, and he would often run out of paper in March. The cafeteria served eggs and grits for breakfast. Yet Robinson never complained. He never wanted to be considered a black coach at a historically black college, facing so many impediments. He simply went to work.

“You would never hear him say those kinds of things,” Evans said. “That he didn’t have resources because of the color of his skin. But that’s what it was.”

There was a protest in 1967, about the football team, not by it. Students blocked the path to the administration building, Gallot said. They felt like the football players received more than they did: ties for game day, better food in the dining hall, a small monthly subsidy.

They camped overnight in front of the building and threatened to lie down on the field and disrupt the homecoming game. Grambling called in the National Guard, and the game went on. The leaders, Gallot said, were expelled.

Robinson helped defuse the tension, as he did in the late ’70s when Briggs was in school and the team sat out one practice in a protest similar to what happened last week. Robinson, Briggs said, cried in front of the team, told them they had to do more with less. The next day, they returned.

That history mattered this week, too, as so many Gramblinites worried that the problems were tearing at what Robinson had built. (As the revolt unfolded, his son, Eddie Robinson Jr., was hospitalized in intensive care.)

“This place is special to me,” Porter said at practice. “I came back here after I retired for those reasons. I didn’t want to see the Grambling legacy wind up under those circumstances.”

Inside his office, Pogue wore a pinstripe suit and a Grambling pin on his lapel, and he spoke with a measure of resolve. Nothing in his 51 years in higher education prepared him for this, not even the time he banned kegs at the State University at Albany and 300 students protested outside his office.

He became the president of Grambling in 2010 and has pleaded poverty ever since. Now, after so much negative publicity, people have started to listen. Or so he hopes. (To that end, he was scheduled to go on Jesse Jackson’s radio show Sunday morning.)

“I have been somewhat surprised myself about the support that I have received personally through this,” he said.

On Tuesday, the third football coach this season, Dennis Winston sat before reporters in front of a Grambling logo. The volume had dropped significantly since last weekend, when the players refused to play.

Winston, in a yellow T-shirt, thanked everyone for coming. He described the past week as “sleepless.” He expected a full stadium Saturday because it is Grambling’s annual high school day, with prospective students in attendance, but mostly because he knows many will want to see how the Tigers react to what unfolded.

Aaron James, the athletic director, said the university had committed to upgrade the weight-room floor. He expected construction to start in two to three weeks. So many wanted to help, most prominently the Baton Rouge businessman Jim Bernhard.

Yet for all the hope for progress, most of the issues from before remained. No one expects an influx of state funding. The threat of litigation from Jackson State lingered.

Pannell scoffed at those who suggested that Grambling drop football, or its athletic department, altogether. Football, the band, four Pro Football Hall of Fame players, Robinson and the Legends collectively made Grambling a worldwide name. That made Grambling, well, Grambling.

The Legends held a conference call late Wednesday. They made plans to attend the game Saturday and to meet at Homecoming next week. Pogue said Grambling was not in a position to turn down money from anyone, least of all the Legends. But they believe he has. He said he wanted to pursue an affiliation agreement with the groups. But they believe he does not. He said so, they noted, in a letter in August.

“If Frank Pogue were not in the picture, I think Doug Williams would still be the coach,” Briggs said. “All the things that happened would not have happened.”

The team will play football on Saturday regardless, passing a sign on the way to the stadium that reads: “Grambling State University. Where Everybody is Somebody.”

Williams will not be there, but his son, D. J., will start at quarterback. Pogue will be there, as will many of the Legends and too many reporters for the press box. For four hours, everyone will try to forget about the weight-room floor. Then Monday everyone will go back to work.
635 2013-10-26 A former rap music executive who for years faced allegations that he was connected to infamous killings of two rap stars was sentenced to life in prison on Friday for running a multimillion-dollar drug empire.

The former executive, James Rosemond, known in hip-hop circles as Jimmy Henchman, was convicted in Federal District Court in Brooklyn last year of overseeing the distribution of scores of kilograms of cocaine per month and moving drugs and money from coast to coast in music crates.

But Mr. Rosemond, who is from Brooklyn, is best known for rumors that have dogged him since the 1990s: that he arranged an attack on the rapper Tupac Shakur that led to an escalating feud between Mr. Shakur and Christopher Wallace, better known as the Notorious B.I.G., that eventually left both rappers dead and the music world stunned.

Mr. Rosemond has always denied involvement with that feud, and he has never been charged in connection with the accusations. The drug charges for which he was sentenced resulted from a separate inquiry by the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Internal Revenue Service.

In the courtroom on Friday, a prosecutor said that Mr. Rosemond had lived the stereotypical life of a kingpin, with several penthouse apartments, fancy cars, nice vacations and a sound system that cost more than $100,000.

Loretta E. Lynch, the United States attorney for the Eastern District of New York, said in a statement that Mr. Rosemond had only styled himself a music mogul. “In reality,” she said, “his image as a music impresario was a cover for the real Jimmy Rosemond — a thug in a suit” who flooded the streets with cocaine.
636 2013-10-26 “For Paul, it is like being a gambler, like being a heroin addict — he cannot stop,” Andrew Sarlos, a prominent Toronto investment banker and Reichmann family friend, said in a 1988 article in Maclean’s, the Canadian weekly.

Mr. Reichmann scoffed at that sort of criticism. “You don’t get the returns if you don’t take the risk,” he said in an interview with Institutional Investor magazine in 2000.

For years, Mr. Reichmann’s track record was so impressive that his creditors did not seem to mind his high-roller approach. His sense of timing in the notoriously cyclical real estate market seemed infallible, and he was viewed as a master negotiator with an uncanny understanding of financing techniques.

But the Reichmann empire crumbled in 1992. The immediate cause was the Canary Wharf project in London. With real estate prices plunging around the world, other major Reichmann properties were also in the red, and the family’s stock market investments soured.

Crushed under debts of more than $20 billion, Olympia & York went bankrupt. The Reichmanns were left with a net worth of less than $100 million — one of the most astonishing financial collapses in history.

Paul Reichmann blamed his own overconfidence. “The fact that I had never been wrong created character flaws that caused me to make mistakes,” he said in 1997.

Mr. Reichmann and his family partly rebuilt their fortune. In a personal triumph, he recovered control of Canary Wharf in 1995, as a minority partner and chairman of an investment group that included George Soros and Laurence Tisch, and then pushed ahead with the completion of the project. He retired in 2005 after an alliance of developers led by Morgan Stanley acquired Canary Wharf.

The strains of commerce and religious orthodoxy were often inseparable in the family’s ventures. For example, Olympia & York closed its construction sites on the Jewish Sabbath, paying overtime for Sunday labor, and during the Jewish religious holidays, as well as Christian ones.

At the height of his business career, Mr. Reichmann sometimes spoke wistfully of the Talmudic studies and religious school building projects he undertook as a young man.

“I think that what I did in those years was a greater achievement than what I’ve done since,” he was quoted as saying in a 1996 biography of his family, “The Reichmanns,” by Anthony Bianco. Paul Reichmann was born in Vienna on Sept. 27, 1930, the fifth of six siblings. His parents, Samuel and Rene, were Orthodox Jews who had moved from rural Hungary to Vienna, where they owned a prosperous egg export business. But Nazi Germany’s annexation of Austria in 1938 forced the family to flee to Paris.

Two years later, when the Nazis overran France, the Reichmanns fled to Tangier, Morocco, where Samuel Reichmann became a successful currency trader.

When anti-Jewish riots broke out across the Middle East after the 1956 Arab-Israeli War, the Reichmanns uprooted themselves again, this time going to Canada. The family settled in North York, a suburb of Toronto, where Samuel and his sons, Paul, Albert and Ralph, started a small company producing tiles and other building material, which they called Olympia Tile. In 1958, it became the springboard for Olympia & York, which would erect close to 100 buildings in the Toronto area over the next 15 years.

The most notable of these projects was First Canadian Place, a 72-story office tower in downtown Toronto that was the country’s tallest building. Completed in 1973 after only 16 months and using vast quantities of magnificent white marble, the tower gained the Reichmanns a reputation for quality projects delivered at an accelerated pace.

The success of First Canadian Place also encouraged Paul Reichmann to venture into the United States real estate market. His first foray involved the purchase of eight prime Manhattan office buildings from the Uris Corporation in 1977 for $325 million. At the time, New York City seemed on the verge of bankruptcy, and its office vacancy rates were soaring. But a decade later, the same properties were valued around $3 billion.

By then, Mr. Reichmann and his brothers were heavily involved in their most heralded project, the World Financial Center. In 1980, the still relatively unknown Olympia & York won out over a dozen other developers, most of them local firms, to build six million square feet of office and retail space near Battery Park on land reclaimed from the Hudson River.

The project’s design, by the Argentine-born architect Cesar Pelli, featured four office towers ranging up to 51 stories, on top of a huge base devoted to luxury stores. The centerpiece of the complex, the Winter Garden, was a 130-foot-high, glass-vaulted pavilion landscaped with palms. When the design for the World Financial Center was unveiled in 1981, it was hailed as “the finest group of skyscrapers since Rockefeller Center,” by Paul Goldberger, The New York Times’s architecture critic.

By the end of the 1980s, the Reichmanns were the seventh-richest family in the world, according to Fortune magazine. But they still lived relatively modestly in the same upper-middle-class homes they had built for themselves in their Toronto suburb a generation before.

Paul Reichmann’s wife, Lea, occasionally complained that her husband was too involved in his business and not spending enough time with his children, Barry, Henry, Vivian, Rachel and Libby. But he was home every Sabbath and holiday, joining his family and neighbors as they walked to the nearby temple for services.

In 1988, Mr. Reichmann took the greatest gamble of his life by committing Olympia & York to build Canary Wharf. The completed project was supposed to have 24 buildings and 12.5 million square feet of office space at an estimated construction cost of $8 billion.

Despite generous subsidies and rent cutbacks, only a fraction of the commercial space was occupied. By late 1991, Canary Wharf was paralyzed by a lack of further financing. And early the next year, Olympia & York announced that it had run out of cash.

Many of the family’s other real estate holdings were also in trouble because of high office vacancy rates in a number of North American cities. The Reichmanns filed for bankruptcy protection in London, Toronto and New York simultaneously.

Only three years later, Mr. Reichmann regained the helm at Canary Wharf, which finally gained nearly full occupancy in 2000 thanks to a booming real estate market in London. By 2000, the Reichmann family’s net worth reached $1 billion. But in an interview with Institutional Investor that year, Mr. Reichmann said his business accomplishments had never given him the sense of fulfillment he experienced as a youthful religious social worker and teacher in North Africa. But “what could have been is a silly way to look at things,” he said. “You are what you are.”
637 2013-10-26 Mr. de Blasio was expected to report a large fund-raising haul, but the stark difference between the totals for him and his rival underscores the extent of the challenge that lies ahead for Mr. Lhota, who, aside from a feisty performance in a debate this week, has generally struggled to generate interest in his candidacy.

“Money tends to follow prospects for victory,” said Costas Panagopoulos, a political-science professor at Fordham University.

“When a prospective donor is virtually assured someone will get elected, and they want to have access to that candidate or they want that individual to look favorably on their preferences once in office, giving may be a wise investment,” he added.

Even as Mr. de Blasio has bemoaned the role of independent expenditures, new campaign finance disclosures showed that he had benefited from the spending of outside groups far more than his opponent did.

In the most prominent independent expenditure since the primary, a labor-backed group, New York Progress, began running a television ad on Friday that seeks to tie Mr. Lhota to the Tea Party. The group is pouring at least $1 million into the ad campaign, which is being financed by some leading unions, including the New York Hotel and Motel Trades Council, the United Federation of Teachers and Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union.

Outside efforts in support of Mr. Lhota have been much more modest. One group, New Yorkers for Proven Leadership, reported raising $173,000 this month, a relatively small amount given the cost of television advertising in New York City. Another group supporting Mr. Lhota, New York Progress and Protection PAC, which won a court ruling on Thursday allowing it to accept individual contributions of any size, has not yet reported raising or spending any money.

Beyond the mayoral race, a statewide referendum to authorize as many as seven full-scale casinos in New York State has also attracted significant spending, but only from proponents of the measure.

Six groups have registered with the State Board of Elections to campaign in favor of the casino referendum, and none have registered to urge its defeat, a spokesman for the board said on Friday.

The most prominent of the groups, New York Jobs Now, a coalition of business and labor leaders that is promoting the referendum, is actually being financed largely by the gambling industry, a new filing with the Board of Elections shows.

The group, which began broadcasting television commercials this week in New York City and on Long Island, has reported about $2.7 million in contributions for its campaign.

Most of that money — about $2.4 million — has come from gambling interests, with the proprietors of racetrack casinos making the largest contributions. The Yonkers Racing Corporation, which owns the Empire City Casino, gave $750,000, and Genting New York, which owns the Resorts World Casino at the Aqueduct Racetrack in Queens, gave $500,000.

A notable amount of money is also being spent advocating the approval of another statewide referendum, which would amend the Constitution to allow certain state judges, including those on New York’s highest court, to serve until age 80.

A committee supporting that referendum, Justice for All, has raised about $511,000, according to disclosure filings, with much of its money coming from law firms.
638 2013-10-26 “Most of them have short track records, obscure trading strategies and few to no adequate benchmarks to compare their performance to,” said Milo Benningfield, a financial adviser in San Francisco.

He marveled at some of the funds’ sales strategies. “One pitch I’ve seen says, in effect, ‘I agree completely that this strategy isn’t for everyone and most people should stick with things they know like stocks and bonds. But for someone who’s willing to do a little more work and can grasp the concepts, this strategy offers a prudent method of improving diversification and risk-adjusted returns.’

“In other words,” he said, “you must be a pretty smart dude to even contemplate our strategy.”

For most investors, slogging through a fund’s prospectus will require several visits to Investopedia, and even then, the inner workings will be hard to grasp. Many of them use derivatives, like options, futures or other complex instruments.

Multi-alternative funds may be the most difficult to digest since they include a sampling of several hedge-fund-like strategies. They might include a long/short strategy, a “global macro strategy” (which generally trade on developing economic trends or policies, for instance), managed futures (which invest in futures contracts like commodities and currencies) among several others. In addition, nontraditional bond funds — which have recently ballooned given fears of rising interest rates — hedge risks tied to rates and trade on anticipated moves in bonds.

“It takes a lot of investment knowledge to fully understand these products,” said Derek Tharp, a registered life planner at Mote Wealth Management. “They’re marketed with a shallow representation of what is really going on inside the fund.”

Managing all of that complexity is also expensive. Alternative funds, on average, cost 1.77 percent of assets, according to Morningstar, compared with 1.28 percent for the average actively managed mutual fund. Hedge funds, however, generally charge up to 2 percent of assets and 20 percent of your profits.

Despite the high costs, the money continues to stream in. Alternative funds hold $234.4 billion in total assets, up from about $157 billion at the end of 2012 and $41.8 billion in 2007, according to Morningstar. Year to date, nearly $44 billion flowed into nontraditional bond funds alone, and $14 billion more followed into long/short equity funds.

This year, 55 new alternative funds have been introduced, according to Josh Charney, an alternative investment analyst at Morningstar, bringing the total number of funds to about 400. Even some large hedge fund players — like AQR Capital Management and most recently the Blackstone Group, one of the largest investors in hedge funds — have started to offer alternative mutual funds to regular investors. By contrast, to invest in a hedge fund directly, an individual must be an accredited investor, with an income of at least $200,000 ($300,000 for couples) or more than $1 million in assets.

So why would hedge funds even bother with smaller investors? In a third-quarter earnings conference call with analysts, Stephen Schwarzman, chairman of Blackstone, recently called it a “very big potential market for us” now that they’ve “cracked the code” on how to manufacture their products for mass consumption.

Put plainly: “It’s a way to gather more assets,” said Steven Nadel, a lawyer at Seward & Kissel who represents hedge funds. “Some strategies are very malleable or easily portable from the hedge fund platform to the mutual fund platform. And it’s an easier sell.”

Compared to hedge funds, alternative mutual funds don’t require that you tie up your money for long periods of time and they are more transparent (but still enormously complicated).

AQR Capital Management also came out with several alternative funds in recent years (offered through brokers and advisers), including a long/short equity fund and a managed futures fund earlier this year. Over the last two years, BlackRock, an asset management firm, has introduced six alternative mutual funds.

Blackstone, meanwhile, opened its doors to retail investors through a partnership with Fidelity’s Portfolio Advisory Service (PAS), which manages portfolios for investors with at least $50,000. Blackstone’s Alternative Multi-Manager fund, just two months old, is essentially a mutual fund that invests in a variety of hedge fund strategies, and will be included in some of Fidelity’s model portfolios for clients. The overall goal is to capture some of the profits generated by the overall market, but limit losses.

“The key is to provide individuals with access to high quality managers in a well-constructed, diversified portfolio,” said John McCormick, senior managing director of Blackstone and head of global business strategy for its Hedge Fund Solutions group. It charges 2.4 percent of assets, and includes 12 hedge fund managers, some of whom specialize in, for instance, distressed debt. Others trade on stock price movements, for example, tied to corporate mergers or acquisitions.

Some experts still question whether these strategies are truly importable into mutual fund format. “The track records of hedge funds and private equity funds are based on an illiquid structure that protects the portfolio from panicked selling attacks during down markets, and gives assets time to recover or develop,” said Lydia P. Sheckels, a financial planner and chief investment officer at Wescott Financial Advisory in Philadelphia. “We question how these funds will perform going forward.”
639 2013-10-26 Mr. Gergely, a human rights lawyer who has a Roma father and a white Romanian mother, noted that many Roma, who arrived in Europe from India centuries ago and are also known as Gypsies, came from mixed families.

He himself has light skin and blue eyes, which he said punctured the widespread stereotype that Roma have dark hair and dusky complexions. “It is mystifying that those accused of criminality are seen to represent the Roma community,” he said, noting that if people engaged in human trafficking it was because of severe poverty, not their cultural background. “Applying collective responsibility to the entire Roma community is unacceptable.”

Despite such warnings, anti-Roma sentiment appears to be spreading., Serbian news media reported this week that a group of skinheads in Novi Sad, Serbia, tried to abduct a Roma child in front of his house last weekend because his skin was fairer than that of his father, Stefan Nikolic.

In Italy, the anti-immigrant Northern League responded to news of Maria’s supposed abduction this week by demanding inspections of all Roma communities to check for missing children. Gianluca Buonanno, a member of the Northern League in the Italian lower house of Parliament, said he had submitted a petition to the Interior Ministry demanding identification of camp occupants.

“If it happened in Greece, it could very well happen here in Italy — maybe it’s happening already,” he said in an interview with Repubblica TV, shown on the Web site of the newspaper La Repubblica.

Even before the cases, rights groups say, violence and intimidation against the Roma were intensifying. Earlier this month, a woman threw acid at a 2-year-old Roma boy and his mother in Naples, according to the European Roma Rights Center. In Hungary, at least seven Roma were killed between 2008 and 2010, and Roma leaders have counted dozens of firebomb attacks in the past.

In Greece, where the far-right Golden Dawn movement has been fanning anti-immigrant fervor, the head of the Greek Union of Roma, Yiannis Halilopoulos, said the sensational coverage in the Greek news media and the racial profiling that followed the removal of Maria had “taken us back 100 years.”

“For the first time in years, I hear people shouting ‘Gypsies, thieves!’ when I walk down the street,” he said. He said he had also noticed more aggressive reactions to Roma who beg in the street: “Sometimes they shove them out of the way. I haven’t seen that in a long time.”

Mr. Halilopoulos said many children in Roma settlements had light skin, blond hair and blue eyes. “What are you going to do? Take them all in because they don’t ‘match’ their parents?” he said. “That’s not racist, that’s stupid.”

In the Czech Republic, ultraright parties and their neo-Nazi supporters this year have organized about 30 anti-Roma marches, where some have chanted, “Gypsies to the gas chambers,” rights groups said.

In France, where the Roma issue has flared amid a debate over immigration, the far-right National Front has made the Roma a central issue ahead of municipal elections in March. Its leaders have warned that if Romanians and Bulgarians were allowed to travel in the European Union’s passport-free Schengen Area, the country could see a flood of Roma immigrants.

This month, President François Hollande intervened after a 15-year-old Roma girl, whose family was living illegally in France for five years, was pulled off a bus by the authorities and expelled to Kosovo. After loud protests, Mr. Hollande agreed to allow the girl to return, but only if she left her family behind.

Capturing increasing national frustration with the Roma, a prominent story in the April issue of the popular magazine Paris Match showed eight pages of photographs of young Roma pickpockets brazenly targeting tourists at bank machines, Metro stations and museums like the Louvre.

But Roma advocates counter that if there is crime among some Roma, it is the byproduct of severe economic deprivation and social exclusion that allowed a minority of unscrupulous ringleaders to exploit poor people desperately eking out an existence on society’s fringes.

Livia Jaroka, 39, an anthropologist who has studied the Roma and is the only Roma member of the European Parliament, noted that many Roma were blighted by poor access to education and difficult health conditions. According to the European Commission, the life expectancy for Roma men in the European Union is 10 years less than the average of 76. Ms. Jaroka, who was born in Hungary, further noted that among the roughly 40 million people who were the most impoverished in Europe, the Roma were disproportionally represented.

Mr. Gergely, whose musician father worked long days in a restaurant to help pay for his son’s law school education, said such statistics made the necessity for Roma role models imperative. But he said he feared that recent scaremongering about the Roma threatened to push successful Roma underground.

“Many Roma are very anxious about identifying themselves as Roma, because there is a feeling that if you declare your ethnicity, you might suffer,” he said. “In most cases when Roma succeed, they prefer to remain invisible.”
640 2013-10-26 Pictures from the Week in Business
641 2013-10-26 Dr. Bruce Aylward, the assistant director general for polio and emergencies at the World Health Organization, which is helping to lead the new polio vaccination effort in Syria, said officials at the agency were taking no chances and assuming that the 20 paralyzed children in Deir al-Zour were polio victims. “This is polio until proven otherwise,” he said in a telephone interview from the group’s headquarters in Geneva.

Despite the war, Dr. Aylward said he believed that both sides understood the urgent need for repeated vaccinations of all young children because polio can spread indiscriminately and is so difficult to eradicate. Nonetheless, he said, it remained unclear whether the vaccination effort, in all parts of Syria, would be impeded by the conflict’s chaos and politics.

“The virus is the kind of virus that finds vulnerable populations,” he said, “and the combination of vulnerability and low immunization coverage, that is a time bomb. There is a real risk of this exploding into an outbreak with hundreds of cases.”

The World Health Organization, working with Unicef and other aid groups, has organized a plan to administer repeated oral doses of polio vaccine in concentric geographical circles, starting with children in Deir al-Zour and eventually reaching western Iraq, southern Turkey, Jordan, Israel, the Palestinian territories and Egypt. In Lebanon, home to more than 700,000 Syrian refugees, public health officials said Friday that they were undertaking a related effort to vaccinate all children under age 5.

Altogether, Dr. Aylward said, more than 10 million young children in the Middle East would get polio vaccinations over the next several weeks.

The World Health Organization has spent 25 years trying to eradicate polio. In recent years, the disease’s presence had narrowed to just three countries — Nigeria, Pakistan and Afghanistan — from more than 125 when the campaign began in 1988. The virus is highly infectious and mainly affects children younger than 5. Within hours, it can cause irreversible paralysis or even death if breathing muscles are immobilized. The only effective treatment is prevention, the World Health Organization says on its Web site, through multiple doses of a vaccine.

While the source of the Syrian polio strain remained unclear, public health experts said the jihadists who had entered Syria to fight the government of President Bashar al-Assad may have been carriers. Dr. Aylward said there were some indications that the strain had originated in Pakistan. He cited the recent discovery of the Pakistani strain in sewage in Egypt, Israel, the West Bank and Gaza.

The Syria aid crisis portrayed by Ms. Amos in her Security Council briefing reflected new levels of frustration over the Council’s inability to act decisively on the conflict, despite its binding — and so far successful — Sept. 27 resolution on the dismantling of Syria’s chemical weapons arsenal.

By contrast, the Council’s Oct. 2 statement requesting that all combatants in Syria protect civilians and allow unfettered access for humanitarian aid has no enforcement power.

“This is a race against time,” Ms. Amos said. “Three weeks have passed since the adoption of the Council’s statement, with little change to report.”

Ms. Amos told the Council that the Syrian government had withheld approval of more than 100 visas for United Nations staff members and members of other international aid groups, and had restricted workers from operating in areas with the greatest need. She also said as many as 2,000 armed opposition groups in Syria had made travel within the country increasingly dangerous. Kidnappings of humanitarian workers are increasingly common, she said, citing an instance last week when “we had a convoy that was ready to go, but we could not get enough drivers, as they fear for their lives.”
642 2013-10-26 To have their plans qualified to be sold on exchanges, insurers must follow rules like marketing their plans fairly, and must offer at least one plan in the “silver” and “gold” categories. Such plans have higher premiums, but lower out-of-pocket costs, than plans in the lower “bronze” category.

Plans sold off the exchange are also supposed to follow the same tiers as those used on the public exchanges, to indicate the level of costs you will incur.

Whether or not the policies you will find off the exchange are a better deal for you than the on-exchange plans isn’t clear yet, and will vary by market. “I don’t think we have a good sense of that,” said Robert Zirkelbach, spokesman for America’s Health Insurance Plans, an industry group. But, he added, it makes sense to check.

Another possible reason for shopping off the exchanges is if the networks offered by the plans you find there don’t include your own doctor or hospital, said Sara R. Collins, a health policy expert at the Commonwealth Fund. In some cases, insurers are seeking to control costs by narrowing the networks of plans offered on the exchanges.

Of course, there’s still time to sign up through the exchanges set up by the federal government, assuming the army of technical experts being brought in to help can make good on President Obama’s pledge to fix the problems plaguing Healthcare.gov, the federal exchange portal.

On the exchanges, you have until Dec. 15 to enroll in coverage that starts Jan. 1. (Under new rules announced this week, you can enroll as late as March 31 for coverage starting after Jan. 1 and still avoid fines.) And if you live in one of the states running its own exchange, like New York or Minnesota, enrollment is said to be running more smoothly.

In the meantime, you can also try enrolling by telephone, at 1-800-318-2596, or you can print out a paper form at healthcare.gov and apply by mail. The site also lists locations by ZIP code where you can get in-person help.

Here are some questions to consider.

■ How do I find health insurance policies off the public marketplaces?

You can use the “See plans and prices in your area” feature on Healthcare.gov to see which insurers offer plans in your state, then contact them yourself to see what else they offer. But not all insurers have plans on the exchanges, so you also can try commercial hubs, like GoHealth.com and eHealthinsurance.com.

I searched on Healthcare.gov and eHealthinsurance.com for bronze plans in my state, Arkansas, for an individual under 50. Healthcare.gov said the lowest premium (without any credits) was a plan from QualChoice Health Insurance for $171 a month. On eHealthinsurance, the lowest bronze plan was $223 a month, from Arkansas Blue Cross Blue Shield. (EHealthinsurance didn’t show me any plans from QualChoice.)

■ Where can I find a local broker or agent that sells insurance plans?

Check the Web site of the National Association of Health Underwriters. Keep in mind that agents won’t necessarily show you all available policies, just the ones from insurers they work with.

■ If I have an individual plan already, can I keep it?

Maybe. Generally, plans that take effect for 2014 must meet the law’s requirements. But there’s a loophole in most states: if your insurer allows you to renew your current policy early — before Jan. 1 — you may be able to keep it for 12 more months without penalty.

A handful of states limit this option. Insurers selling plans on California’s state-run exchange, for instance, aren’t allowed to offer renewals of 2013 plans. So ask your insurer. And note that if you go this route, your plan won’t necessarily have the Affordable Care Act’s mandated benefits.

■ Can I buy one of these 2013 plans now for coverage next year, if I don’t have one already?

Yes — if you qualify, says Sabrina Corlette, a research professor at Georgetown University’s Health Policy Institute. You’re not guaranteed coverage with these plans, so insurers can deny your application if you’re sick. However, many shoppers at ehealthinsurance.com are considering 2013 plans, says Carrie McLean, head of customer care at the site. Premiums may be lower, she said, since the plans don’t have to offer all the benefits required by the new law.
643 2013-10-26 The Food and Drug Administration proposed rules on Friday that would govern the production of pet food and farm animal feed for the first time.

The regulation would help prevent food-borne illness in both animals and people, officials at the agency said, as people can become sick from handling contaminated animal food and from touching pets that have eaten it.

The proposal comes six years after the biggest pet food recall in history, when a Chinese producer contaminated dog and cat food with melamine, a compound used in plastics, causing the deaths of animals across the United States.

The public outcry helped lead to the inclusion of animal food in the Food Safety and Modernization Act, a landmark food safety bill, which passed with broad support in 2010 and was the first major overhaul of the Food and Drug Administration’s food safety laws since the 1930s. It gives the F.D.A. more control over food imports as well as broad new powers to set standards to prevent contamination of produce and processed food. The rules proposed Friday offer details on how this would be accomplished.

Jerky treats have also caused pet deaths. Since 2007, the F.D.A. has counted about 580 pet deaths, nearly all dogs, connected to chicken, duck and sweet potato jerky treats, nearly all of which were imported from China. It is not clear if the new regulations could have prevented the deaths because the F.D.A. is not sure yet what the hazard is.
644 2013-10-26 LONDON — Citing regulatory constraints and time pressures, Norway said Friday that it had turned down an American request to help destroy chemical weapons as part of the effort to dismantle Syria’s arsenal of toxic munitions.

The incoming government of the Conservative prime minister, Erna Solberg, has been considering the request for several weeks, and has conducted “extensive discussions” with the United States, the Norwegian Foreign Ministry said in a statement on its Web site.

“The two countries have come to the joint understanding that Norway is not the most suitable location for this destruction,” the statement said.

Officials at the American Embassy in Oslo and at the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons in The Hague, which is leading the effort to dismantle Syria’s stocks of poison gas and nerve agents, offered no immediate comment on the probable impact of Norway’s decision on the United Nations-backed plan to destroy the weapons by mid-2014.

News reports said the United States had asked other unspecified countries apart from Norway to help destroy the stockpiles.

In its latest statement on the mission — part of a joint effort by Russia and the United States after an attack using poison gas in a Damascus suburb on Aug. 21 — the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons said its inspectors in Syria had visited 18 of 23 sites disclosed by the Syrian authorities and had undertaken “functional destruction activities of critical equipment” at almost all of them.
645 2013-10-27 New phrases popular among young Chinese on the Internet retain the format of classical Chinese idioms but are distinguished by their ironic, contemporary, and sometimes political themes....
646 2013-10-27 Dr. Lauren Cortell Fine, a daughter of Nina Cortell and Dr. Robert L. Fine of Dallas, was married Saturday evening to Dr. Benjamin Richard Morrissey, a son of Kathy Morrissey and Richard E. Morrissey of Sparta, N.J. Dr. Barry C. Simon, a colleague and friend of the couple who became a Universal Life minister for the occasion, officiated at the Trinity River Audubon Center in Dallas.

The bride, 33, practices emergency medicine at Baylor University Medical Center in Dallas. She graduated from Brown and received a medical degree from the University of Pennsylvania.

Her father, an internist, is the director of clinical ethics and palliative care for the Baylor Health Care System in Dallas. Her mother is a partner in Haynes & Boone, a Dallas law firm.

The groom, 28, is a second-year resident in emergency medicine at Highland General Hospital in Oakland, Calif. He graduated from George Washington and received a medical degree from the Newark campus of the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey.

His mother is a physical therapist at Sparta Fit for Life. His father, a toxicologist, is a vice president for drug development at Celgene, the biopharmaceutical company, in Summit, N.J.
647 2013-10-27 Emilie Frances Williams and David Lewis Snyder were married Saturday evening at the Holy Name of Jesus Church in New Orleans. The Rev. Clyde LeBlanc, a Roman Catholic priest and an uncle of the bride, performed the ceremony.

The bride, 32, and the groom, 34, met at Fordham, from which each received a law degree and from which the bride also received a master’s in social work.

Mrs. Snyder works in Brooklyn as a trial lawyer for Brooklyn Defender Services, a public defender’s office. She graduated from the Catholic University of America. She is a daughter of Jeanne L. Williams and Conrad S. P. Williams III of New Orleans.

Mr. Snyder is a litigation associate at the Manhattan law firm Boies, Schiller & Flexner. He graduated summa cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania.

He is a son of Francesca Engler of Palm Beach, Fla., and Howard M. Snyder of Scottsdale, Ariz.
648 2013-10-27 Melissa Fay Schwartz and Joshua Andrew Friedberg were married Saturday night by Rabbi Joel Mosbacher at Paramount Country Club in New City, N.Y.

The bride, 37, is a senior vice president in New York at CDMiConnect, an advertising agency. She graduated from Wellesley and received a master’s in international relations from the London School of Economics. She is the daughter of Sheri A. Schwartz and Gilbert D. Schwartz of New York.

The groom, 36, is a managing director in New York with Deutsche Bank. He graduated with two bachelor’s degrees from the University of Pennsylvania, one in economics and the other in philosophy, politics and economics. He is the son of Sharry F. Friedberg and Mark J. Friedberg of River Vale, N.J.
649 2013-10-27 “I just expected her to win — but not like that,” he said.

Williams was playing her 81st match of the year, the most she has played in a season since totaling 62 matches in both the 2009 and 2012 seasons. Williams has played with quality as well as quantity, amassing a sparkling 77-4 record. Adding Sunday’s final, Williams’s 82 matches would be the most of any player in 2013, with Agnieszka Radwanska second at 75.

“Last night I was in my hotel and I was lying down, and I just — I understand the expression — I hit a wall,” Williams said, slapping her hands together for emphasis. “I literally felt like I just hit a wall.”

Williams said she would need to replenish her fuel to be ready for her match less than 24 hours later against Li Na, who defeated Petra Kvitova, 6-4, 6-2.

With that win, Li jumped two spots in the rankings to No. 3, the highest ranking for a player from Asia. Li ranks above her own previous high, No. 4 in 2011, as well as the peak by Kimiko Date Krumm of Japan at the same rung in 1995.

“I like to be the first, you know,” Li, who won the 2011 French Open to become the first player from Asia to claim a Grand Slam singles title, said with a grin.

“Every time she has a lead, she’s running for the balls and she’s hitting those big serves,” Jankovic said. “For some reason, every time she starts losing, she starts serving slower or not running for certain balls. That’s something that, as a player, you have to pay attention. It’s not the first time when we played that she’s doing this.”

Jankovic expressed doubt that Williams was lower on energy than the other players in the field, given that she had won her three round-robin matches in straight sets while other players had been forced into more physically demanding three-set battles.

“I think all of the players are so tired physically and mentally,” Jankovic said. “But I think she’s very strong mentally and physically. I think more stronger than all of these players here. If she’s tired, the other ones are way more tired, because she has had easier matches than most of these girls.”

She added: “She’s the No. 1 player in the world, and she plays so well. She’s by far, I think, the best player. She deserves to be in this spot. But I think it’s also when you play, winning or losing, you have to be up there and be a good sportsman.”

The first to greet Williams when she departed the interview room was Philip Brook, the chairman of Wimbledon.

As the two embraced in the corridor, Brook asked Williams, a five-time Wimbledon singles champion, how she was feeling.
650 2013-10-27 Mr. Babis indicated Saturday that he did not want to join any coalition government, leading analysts to predict a difficult period of political haggling ahead. If Mr. Babis changes his mind, his party, ANO, or Yes, and the Social Democrats could join forces with a third party to form a majority. Alternatively, Mr. Babis could agree to support a minority coalition government.

Either way, Mr. Babis, a plain-talking entrepreneur who runs an agricultural, food processing and chemical empire, had emerged as a surprise kingmaker, analysts said. His one-year-old party is personality-driven, and lacks a clear ideology and economic agenda.

“Protest parties are the clear winners in these elections, which have shown the extent to which Czechs are fed up with politics in this country, fed up with corruption, and fed up with a bad economy,” said Jaroslav Plesl, the deputy editor of Tyden, a leading Czech political magazine.

Mr. Plesl said that with the country suffering through economic hard times, a backlash against austerity had also favored the Social Democrats, who have pledged to increase spending. “We have had weak or no economic growth since 2009 and people feel worse off than they did before,” Mr. Plesl said. “They feel the politicians have been stealing like crazy.”

The vote comes amid growing restiveness across the region as people have demonstrated simmering disappointment with the post-1989 political order. In Bulgaria, thousands have protested against endemic corruption and economic hardship. In Hungary, the perceived authoritarianism of Prime Minister Viktor Orban has drawn protesters to the streets.

Days before the election this weekend, the Czech sculptor David Cerny conveyed the visceral anger of many Czechs when he installed a 30-foot-high purple sculpture of a hand with a raised middle finger on a float in the Vltava River in Prague, the Czech capital. It was, he said, aimed at the Prague Castle, the seat of the Czech president, as a potent rebuke to the political class.

Then, on a hill overlooking Prague’s historic center, a civic group called Dekomunizace put up a huge poster of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia dressed like Stalin — a reminder, the group said, of the country’s dark past under the communists. But it is a sign of Czechs’ rebellious mood that even the communists, long reviled by many Czechs, performed relatively well.

“This election shows a spectacular rise of anti-politics and a huge amount of cynicism, with Czechs saying, ‘How can things be any worse than what we have had now or in the recent past?’ ” said Jiri Pehe, the director of New York University in Prague and a former adviser to Mr. Havel.

One party that will enter Parliament for the first time, the Dawn of Direct Democracy, was founded by Tomio Okamura, a Czech senator who has preached people power and called for referendums as a way to empower voters.

The strong showing of protest parties followed a corruption scandal over the summer that forced out Petr Necas, the former center-right prime minister. Mr. Necas resigned after his chief of staff, Jana Nagyova, who was also his girlfriend, was accused of using the country’s security services to spy on his wife.

Ms. Nagyova was also accused of bribing three members of Parliament, who had opposed the government, to leave office in return for lucrative posts in state companies.

She has denied the charges. Mr. Necas, who has never been charged in the scandal, has since divorced his wife and married Ms. Nagyova.

The scandal helped fuel a strong backlash against the center-right Civic Democrat Party, which has had a strong presence in Czech politics in the decades following the revolution of 1989.

Alzbeta Sabova, a 23-year-old from Prague who works in public relations, said she had lost faith in the people running the country, and had little optimism that the elections would change anything. “Politics are terrible here,” she said before the vote, “a total farce.”

Ondrej Rous, 27, a restaurant manager, said that he was disgusted by the political status quo and that the country was in dire need of a new generation of politicians to shake things up. “We should throw the current lot out of the window,” he said.
651 2013-10-27 O.K., I’ll keep that in mind. Now some serious business: help me explain your work and your views to people who don’t know them. Let’s start with the efficient-markets theory — or hypothesis, as you call it. What do those words mean?

Well, the general proposition is quite straightforward. It says prices reflect all available information. That’s it. The difficult part comes in developing tests of that idea, but the idea itself is quite simple.

Put that way, it seems like an insight that everyone has always had. But was that really a new thought?

You’re right, I didn’t invent the idea. Definitely not. I coined the terms “efficient markets” and “market efficiency.” You’ll find them in a paper I wrote in 1965. But those are just words.

What I did that was more substantive was I pointed out that you can’t test the hypothesis without also setting out what we call a “model of market equilibrium.”

What does that mean?

In simple terms, it’s this: you’ve got to ask what is the market trying to do in setting prices. In more detailed terms, what it says is: tell me something about how to measure risk. And then tell me, what is the relationship between the expected return on an asset and its risks. It’s a combined problem, something I call the “joint hypothesis problem.” You’ve got to test them together. And testing all of that is where it gets tricky.

The idea is that market prices in the short term don’t have a predictable direction. One implication of this thinking is that it’s very hard to beat the overall stock market, which is an argument for low-cost index funds as opposed to active management. True?

But then your own research undercut some of this. When you looked closely, you found that markets were more complicated. You looked at bond returns, and found that there actually was some predictability, right?

Yes! And Shiller and I and lots of others wrote papers and found a similar phenomenon with stock prices.

You found some factors that may help to predict longer-term stock prices.

Well, yes, take something like the dividend-stock price ratio. When it’s high, expected stock returns tend to be high, and when it’s low, expected returns tend to be low.

And then Ken French [a Dartmouth economist] and I wrote a paper saying that for both bonds and stocks, there are several variables that affect prices, all of which are highly related to business conditions. We concluded that it tells us that it’s likely that the variation in expected returns is rational.

Richard Thaler, your good friend at the University of Chicago, and Bob Shiller, your fellow Nobel laureate, take a different view.

The people on the other side say, well, not so quick! The variation in expected returns — even if it’s related to business conditions — can be irrationally related to business conditions.

So which is it, rational or irrational? Do you know?

Well, at that point, you cannot tell the difference anymore between the behavioral and the rational explanations.

Shiller and Thaler helped to found the field of behavioral finance to help explain a lot of these anomalies. Where’s the difference between the two views, as you see it?

If I were to characterize what differentiates me from Shiller or Thaler, it’s basically we agree on the facts — there is variation in expected returns, which leads to some predictability in returns. Where we disagree is whether it’s rational or irrational. And there’s nothing in the available evidence that allows one to really settle that in a convincing way. The stuff that both Shiller and I have done has been very illuminating in terms of the behavior of returns. The interpretation of that is open for reasonable disagreement.

I think all points of view should get a full airing, and that’s why I’m thrilled to get the prize with Shiller.

But all of the common asset pricing models are based on the concept of market efficiency. That’s the other part of the story.

I’ve spent a good part of the last 40 years testing those models. And a result of a lot of that is the so-called Fama-French three-factor model. It’s widely used both by academics and in industry. [He chuckles.] I’m laughing because the theoretical basis for the model is quite shaky. Basically, we saw these patterns in returns and our motivation was to try to explain them.

Unlike Shiller, you believe there’s a rational basis for all this stock behavior. What are the three factors, as you see them?

The spread of the market return over the Treasury bill rate is one factor. The second is the small-stock factor — the difference in the returns of small stocks and of big stocks. And then there’s the so-called value-growth factor, which is the difference between a diversified portfolio of value stocks versus growth stocks.

Your research has played a big role at Dimensional Fund Advisors, which has become a major asset management company. You were there at the beginning, weren’t you?

Oh, yes, I’ve been on their board since their first day, and my work is embedded in a lot of their products, sure.

Now let’s focus on a few other touchy subjects. Bob Shiller has been recognized by the Nobel committee for his work on asset bubbles. But if I ask you what caused the financial crisis — was it an asset bubble, a real estate bubble — you’re going to tell me you don’t even know what a bubble is. Is that right?

[He laughs] Yes! Absolutely right!

Now let me ask you, have you ever testified before Congress or given policy advice to political figures?

No, I’m too unpredictable. I don’t give advice like that. I don’t believe anyone wants to hear what I have to say.

Well, I’m an extreme libertarian, but I realize we’re in a democracy, and in a democracy people can have views of all stripes and there’s no reason to argue about it.

Well, you’re a Nobel laureate now and people are curious about your views. For example, whenever we talk you always seem to be rereading “The Road to Serfdom,” by Friedrich Hayek. That’s an important book for you, isn’t it?

Yes, it’s a great book. It’s a philosophy, of course; it’s not empirical. What Hayek is basically saying is that to the extent you let government take over economic activity you’re basically giving up freedom, and I think that’s a point Milton Friedman made quite emphatically throughout his lifetime.

I consider myself closer to Milton in my thinking than to anybody else. And Milton was also an enthusiastic libertarian.

Do you accept the basic teachings of John Maynard Keynes, which tell us that government should spend more to counter the effects of a recession?

No, I don’t think there’s a lot of empirical evidence that Keynesian spending really helps.

Despite his advocacy of smaller government, Hayek believed in a social safety net. Do you?

Yes, he did, and I have a similar view. I think we need Social Security, things like that.

And, of course, people don’t entirely understand how risky investing is. That’s very important to get across. We don’t really know if the stock market will produce the returns in the future that people expect. Statistically, you can’t show that it will. There’s real risk there.

Do you believe in financial regulation?

Of course, some regulation, yes. You need a level playing field, you need the government to step in sometimes. But I think we’ve gone too far with Dodd-Frank.

In the financial crisis, do you think the government should have bailed out the big banks?

No, I don’t. I would’ve favored nationalizing the banks, not bailing them out.

Really? That’s not very libertarian, is it?

Well, we’re talking about realistic alternatives. It’s not credible that in a financial crisis, the government will do nothing. It never has. There are going to be demands for it to do something. So you’ve got two choices now. Nationalize them or bail them out. Bailing them out gives them terrible disincentives; it encourages them to take risks because they’ll be bailed out. So I’d nationalize them — and clean them up and then reprivatize them.

So would you have favored that the government do nothing at all?

I said at the time that it would be an interesting experiment. But what people argue is that it would be quite destructive, that it would create long-term problems. We don’t know that that’s true, but I think it’s kind of moot because it’s not an experiment that’s ever going to be run.
652 2013-10-27 Pct. of those who selected a private plan that are ages 18-34 ▲ ▼

Pct. of those who selected a private plan that are ages 18-34

Pct. of those who selected a private plan that are ages 18-34

Pct. of those who selected a private plan that are ages 18-34

Pct. of those who selected a private plan that are ages 18-34

Pct. of those who selected a private plan that are ages 18-34

Pct. of those who selected a private plan that are ages 18-34

Pct. of those who selected a private plan that are ages 18-34

Pct. of those who selected a private plan that are ages 18-34

Pct. of those who selected a private plan that are ages 18-34

Pct. of those who selected a private plan that are ages 18-34
653 2013-10-27 The Affordable Care Act has been controversial — so much so that Republican objections to it were a principal cause of the recent partial shutdown of the federal government.

Yet from the financial perspective of the health care industry, Obamacare, as the law is often known, doesn’t seem much of a hindrance.

In fact, it may even turn out to be positive.

Consider the situation of health insurance providers.

Because they face new regulations intended to broaden coverage and limit profit-taking, some analysts have been concerned that profits will suffer. But in the run-up to the Affordable Care Act, stock market prices have told a different story.

Over the last 12 months, shares of the top five publicly traded health insurance companies — Aetna, WellPoint, UnitedHealth Group, Humana and Cigna — have increased by an average of 32 percent, while the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index has risen by just 24 percent.

Strong profits in the current year, as growth slowed in overall health care costs, is one probable explanation for the outperformance by the group.
654 2013-10-27 What about those who think that this settlement is too onerous financially? Sorry, but that’s what comes of resolving problems wrought by outsized and reckless financial players. The rewards were large when the sun was shining; surely the costs of resolving egregious deeds should also be significant. And let’s not forget that this is damage the financial institutions did to themselves. Nobody made them underwrite toxic loans, sell them to unwitting investors and misuse beleaguered borrowers.

O.K. — that was then; what about now? Have we made the necessary changes to ensure that such a disaster won’t happen again?

Certainly, the voluminous Dodd-Frank law brought some transparency and other improvements to the financial system, and regulators are finally talking tough on increasing the amount of capital that banks must set aside.

But perils remain, according to Luigi Zingales, a professor of entrepreneurship and finance at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business and author of “A Capitalism for the People,” a 2012 book that examines what has gone wrong in our economic system. Mr. Zingales said that as long as the nation’s largest financial institutions enjoy an implicit government guarantee — and they still do — we remain vulnerable to the crises they can create.

In the book, he writes about how the financial sector, “thanks to its resources and cleverness, has increasingly been able to rig the rules to its own advantage.” Historically, our nation was able to keep the financial sector in check, he writes, “but as the financial system gained strength, it also gained political influence.”

This lobbying might is important, Mr. Zingales writes, because it guarantees that these institutions will be able to influence legislation, such as financial reform, to their advantage. “The political benefit that banks receive by being so big is so significant,” he writes, “that it offsets the inefficiencies, such as fraud, that arise from their enormous size.”

This is where the old Glass-Steagall Act, which separated commercial and investment banking, had a positive impact, Mr. Zingales said in an interview. While he said he didn’t believe that having the Depression-era law on the books would have prevented the recent financial crisis, he said its demise contributed to the growing political power of the industry because all of the players have the same businesses to protect and lobby for.

“When all the financial firms are the same and all large, then they are going to have the same interests and lobby in the same direction,” Mr. Zingales said. If they have competing interests because they cannot all be in the same businesses, their lobbying power shrinks, he added.

What does he suggest we do to reduce the implied guarantees bestowed on the banks? He recommends a two-pronged approach. “First, we must force these institutions to recapitalize more,” he said. “But we must also find a more automatic trigger to force recapitalizations along the way” before trouble hits.

Regulators should rely on a market signal to indicate when banks need to raise capital, he said. “Regulators are always late to the game, so adding that mechanism is quite important,” he said. “They’d come in and say, ‘Either you recapitalize or I will take you over.’ ”

The power so enjoyed by these institutions will obviously make this difficult. So Mr. Zingales suggests a change to the nation’s antitrust efforts that would include an analysis of the increased political muscle that results when an industry consolidates.

“When antitrust lawyers look at a merger, they look at the benefits of the economies of scale and the market power created by concentration,” Mr. Zingales said. “But increased political power is another factor that should be brought into antitrust analysis. These companies become so important politically to the state or country that it is hard to resist transforming their interests into the policy of the country.”

This resistance is difficult, yes. But if taxpayers are to be protected, it is absolutely necessary.
655 2013-10-27 Instead, the Open Games will be financed through participation fees, individual online donations and, the organizers hope, grants from international supporters. They have invited athletes from across Russia, as well as from abroad.

“Sport is a universal instrument to solve many different problems,” Konstantin Yablotskiy, a figure skater and president of the organization, said. “For some, like me, it makes it possible to forget about everything. When I skate, I only think about music and movement, and that’s wonderful, especially now.”

Since its founding in 2010, the federation has slowly built a national network. It now has chapters in 22 cities across Russia, and more than 800 officially registered members, including three Olympic-level athletes who are publicly closeted because they fear losing lucrative sponsorships or coveted spots on teams.

“By developing L.G.B.T. sport, we can improve the standing of the L.G.B.T. community in our country,” Mr. Romanov said. “Our society has a very one-sided image of gays. People don’t understand that anyone could be gay. Your boss could be gay; any good, normal person could be gay.”

The group’s existence seems incongruous with the increasingly repressive legislative climate for gays here. According to polling conducted in June by the Levada Center, a respected independent polling agency, only 12 percent of Russians say they personally know a gay, lesbian or bisexual person. A similar poll in April found that 35 percent of Russians believe that homosexuality is a disease or the result of psychological trauma, while 43 percent believe that it is a bad habit or immorality.

But it also reflects a tacit agreement with Mr. Putin’s government that extends beyond gay issues: all’s well that does not end in politics. Such legal gray areas abound in Russia, where the authorities often treat law enforcement as a matter of caprice rather than one of compliance.

“It has to do with the way laws in Russia are made. They aren’t always used in the same form as they are written,” said Anna Zhelnina, a professor at the Center for Civil Society and Human Rights, an affiliate of St. Petersburg State University. “Any law can also be used as an instrument in a future political battle.”

No one, as yet, has been convicted under the federal homosexual propaganda law, though propaganda charges have been filed against an activist who held a one-man protest for gay rights in Kazan, the 2018 World Cup host city. Four Dutch filmmakers working on a documentary about Russian gays were arrested in Murmansk in July, but the case was quickly dropped.

“No one knows where the lines are now,” Mr. Yablotskiy said. “In 2012, after these laws were passed in St. Petersburg, we held a sports festival there. We all painted rainbows on our cheeks, walked around the city and rode the metro. Children saw us, but no one said anything. Was that ‘propaganda?’ ”

The federation takes an indirect approach to promoting gay rights, positioning itself as a sports organization and explicitly excluding mentions of human rights or politics in official statements. It organizes regular events — practices, matches and festivals — intended, they say, to build community and propagandize only sport. The athletes play as amateurs and, each summer, a number of them travel abroad to represent Russia at international competitions like the Gay Games or World Out Games.

Unlike the activists fighting for change publicly on the streets and in the courts, the federation’s leadership sees the battle for equality as a long-term, decidedly uphill struggle for national psychology.

After the passage of the homosexual propaganda law, the group’s leadership temporarily moved into clandestine mode, making its events more secretive. They now send details about the timing and location of meetings only to confirmed members. But they plan to use the Olympics to reassert themselves publicly, the leaders say.

“It’s somewhat good that there’s a place where people can be themselves,” Igor Kochetkov, the chairman of the Russian L.G.B.T. Network, a human rights group, said. “But it’s a ghetto.”
656 2013-10-27 There is a difference, of course, between government surveillance and commercial tracking, as Silicon Valley has been quick to point out. A coalition of technology industry associations appealed to the Obama administration in August not to confuse government surveillance with the tracking of users’ data for advertising purposes. “Discussions about national security must be kept separate from conversations about commercial privacy issues, as the policy issues in these two areas are distinct,” the coalition wrote in a letter to the White House.

The core distinction, industry executives say, is that Web companies do not have the power to prosecute anyone, as law enforcement agencies do. Rather, the industry is trying to discover users’ tastes and preferences, said Michael Moritz, a venture capitalist and chairman of Sequoia Capital in Menlo Park, Calif. “If you go to the heart of these companies, you have people wanting to make sure their products and services are as useful as possible to consumers,” he said. “They know that’s the way they’ll be able to flourish. The last thing they want to do is raise the ire of consumers.”

But hang on, critics say. Commercial data collection has its own dangers. As is widely known by now, posts on Twitter or Facebook can affect college admissions or prospects for employment. And the very collection of data by the likes of Facebook, Microsoft and Verizon creates a vast reservoir of information that intelligence agencies can tap into.

In any event, the lines between the two sets of data, these critics say, are blurring. “I’m not saying evil corporations are doing this intentionally,” Mr. Acquisti said. “At the same time, their technologies have created this infrastructure, which makes universal surveillance possible.”

How much that will change consumer behavior is unclear. A Pew Internet Center survey in mid-September found that Americans were far more concerned about shielding themselves from advertisers than from government agencies.

“The public is now starting to understand that there is aggregation of their information in public and private hands, and that may spark a serious debate that we need about privacy,” said David Vladeck, formerly the chief of enforcement at the Federal Trade Commission and now a law professor at Georgetown University.

Since the N.S.A. leaks began, several Silicon Valley companies have rushed to release reports listing how often governments around the world seek user data. The numbers themselves are revealing: Facebook received requests affecting over 20,000 accounts in the first half of 2013, Microsoft over 31,000 and Yahoo, over 40,000 accounts. The latest, LinkedIn, said it had received requests for just 97 users in the first half of 2013.

“We regularly push back against improper requests for user data, including fighting requests that are unclear, improper, overbroad or unlawful,” Ron Bell, general counsel at Yahoo, wrote in September, when the company released its first such report.

Meanwhile, in an effort to allay public concerns, Facebook, Google, LinkedIn, Microsoft and Yahoo have filed suits in a secret federal surveillance court seeking permission to reveal the number and types of user data requests they receive specifically under national security laws, which come with gag orders. The companies hope to show that the requests affect a relatively small share of users.

Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, has been among the most outspoken among his peers to criticize the N.S.A.’s secret tracking program.

“The government response was, ‘Oh don’t worry, we’re not spying on any Americans.’ ” Mr. Zuckerberg said at a conference in September sponsored by the technology news site TechCrunch. “Oh, wonderful: that’s really helpful to companies trying to serve people around the world, and that’s really going to inspire confidence in American Internet companies.”
657 2013-10-27 In 2009, Gut dislocated her hip during giant slalom training and missed the entire season, including the 2010 Vancouver Olympics.

“Winning the first race of the season is amazing,” Gut said. “It’s great to have a G.S. winner in Switzerland again after all these years.”

She added, “I’ll take it step by step this season, and I don’t think about Sochi yet.”

On a warm and sunny day, Gut led the field by 0.77 seconds after the opening run before finishing with a total time of 2 minutes 25.16 seconds. Zettel was 0.84 back and Rebensburg was 1.28 off the lead.

The favorites struggled, with Tina Maze of Slovenia, last season’s overall World Cup champion, 3.05 seconds behind in 18th place and the world giant slalom champion Tessa Worley of France 3.31 back in 21st.

Julia Mancuso, the 2006 Olympic champion in the discipline, finished the first run in 31st but was allowed a second run after Emi Hasegawa of Japan was disqualified.

“It was just slow,” Mancuso said. “The snow was good. I guess for me I wasn’t in race mode. It’s just a hard race.”

After surgery in 2009, Gut struggled to get going again in the technical races after impressing as a 17-year-old rookie in the 2007-8 season.

“It took a lot of time to build up my G.S. skiing again,” Gut said. “It was easier in super-G and downhill. But now I am back to what I can do in G.S. as well.”

During summer training under her new coach, Rudi Huber, Gut focused on avoiding mistakes.

“The last years I was used to ski fast, but I also did a lot of mistakes,” she said. “So we practiced skiing clean, and that’s what I did today, skiing clean but still pushing it to the limit.”

Gut was surprised by her performance because the conditions did not suit her.

“There was much distance between the gates, and the snow was pretty aggressive,” said Gut, who has won two super-Gs and a downhill. “It’s not easy to find the right mixture of skiing carefully and attacking. Usually I am not so good at it.”

OLYMPIANS MAKE U.S. TEAM The Olympic sprinting gold medalist Lauryn Williams and the Olympic hurdles veteran Lolo Jones were among nine women chosen for the United States women’s bobsled team.

That puts them in the mix for spots on the team that will race in February at the Sochi Olympics.

Elana Meyers will drive USA-1, Jamie Greubel will drive USA-2 and Jazmine Fenlator will drive USA-3. Jones, in her second year of bobsledding, and Williams, a rookie, are among a group of six push athletes.

Also selected as push athletes were the 2010 Olympian Emily Azevedo, the two-time national push champion Aja Evans, the two-time world championship medalist Katie Eberling and the Army soldier-athlete Kristi Koplin.
658 2013-10-27 But when General Manager Ben Cherington went 7 for 7 in free agency, without spending more than $39 million on any individual player, it flooded the roster with solid veterans who met or exceeded the team’s hopes. Shane Victorino, Mike Napoli, Koji Uehara, Stephen Drew, Jonny Gomes, Ryan Dempster and Ross signed on for a combined commitment of 12 years and $100.45 million.

“It really started with understanding that we had a lot of holes to fill,” Cherington said at Busch Stadium on Friday. “We weren’t like a player or two away. We needed to add a lot to just build a deep enough roster. So we felt like the best way to do that was to spread the resources around.”

It was a meticulous plan, carried out with precision and made possible by a roughly $265 million bailout last August from the Los Angeles Dodgers, who traded for Josh Beckett, Carl Crawford and Adrian Gonzalez. The Red Sox knew that dumping those salaries would give them a chance to reset.

“That was actually part of the analysis before we did that trade: let’s make sure we have a place to spend this before we do it,” Cherington said. “And the first thing we saw is, ‘Wow, there really isn’t a lot of top-end talent that fits for us.’ ”

In a way, that was a good thing. The Red Sox had been burned by showering extravagant contracts on Crawford and Gonzalez, players miserable under the intense scrutiny of Boston. The premium players on last winter’s free-agent market, Josh Hamilton and Zack Greinke, were complicated personalities, and not tempting.

Yet beyond the surface, the Red Sox found a market deep in “upper-middle-class” free agents, in Cherington’s words, supporting players who could complement the headliners and thrive within the quirky contours of Fenway Park.

As right-handed power hitters, Gomes and Napoli could mash the ball off or over the Green Monster. Victorino, a former Gold Glove winner in center field, could give the team a defensive edge by playing in right. Dempster fit as a durable fourth or fifth starter. The Red Sox considered Ross, who played for them in the 2008 playoffs, to be the best backup catcher in the majors, an asset whose game planning could help their pitchers.

Each of those players filled an open roster spot. Less obvious, but just as essential, were the deals for Drew and Uehara.

“Depth really did help us get through the year,” Cherington said. “That was something that was important to all of us, but really important to ownership. We felt like, the previous couple of years, our payroll had been concentrated in a smaller number of players.”

With a lighter investment in the front of the payroll, the Red Sox could fortify the middle. Their opening-day payroll, $154 million, was still more than $20 million lower than it was a year before — and could have been lower still, if the team had turned shortstop over to the rookie Jose Iglesias.

That was an option, Cherington said, but the sure-handed Drew, who was trying to re-establish himself after two seasons marred by injury, seemed to be a bargain at one year and $9.5 million. His presence ultimately allowed the Red Sox to give up Iglesias in a trade for starter Jake Peavy in July.

Likewise, the Red Sox could easily have passed on Uehara, because they already had a closer, Andrew Bailey, and were focused on trading for another, Joel Hanrahan. But at one year and $4.25 million (plus a 2014 option that has since vested), Uehara was an affordable insurance policy who paid off when injuries struck the others.

Uehara, the most valuable player of the American League Championship Series, has far exceeded expectations. But Cherington said the others performed at roughly the midpoint in the range of possibilities the front office envisioned.

They have been lucky to stay mostly healthy, but their comfort in Boston is no accident. Cherington and his staff sought players who saw Boston as an opportunity, not a burden, as it clearly seemed to Crawford and Gonzalez.

“Really, if there was one question that can be asked, it was: Does he want to be in Boston?” Cherington said. “Are we talking him into being in Boston, are we buying him into being in Boston — or does he want to be here? Obviously, money was going to be a factor. But I think we knew, coming off last year, the path back to something better.”

A cluster of like-minded players, Cherington believed, could steer the team through the inevitable distractions and adversity that arise every season. The new manager, John Farrell, also wanted in, and came equipped with an understanding of Boston from a prior job as Red Sox pitching coach.

The Red Sox traded infielder Mike Aviles to Toronto to free Farrell from his contract there. The clubhouse Cherington gave him hardly resembled the dysfunctional, overmatched group under his predecessor, Bobby Valentine.

“What has probably been the most gratifying is the people they are, in addition to the players,” Farrell said. “They have embraced everything that Boston has to offer and challenged them with, and as a group, they’ve united in a way that has exceeded our expectation.”

Dempster, a 16-year veteran, said he had never played on a team that had so much fun together, that hung out on off-days the way this one does. Players came to Fort Myers ready to bond, recognizing the value in clubhouse harmony.

The shaggy beards came later, representing what existed all along: a team that could play to its talents and have fun doing it, with reasonable contracts and minimal long-term risk.
659 2013-10-27 “Visitors will enter with a visual sight line into the Rubenstein gallery that draws them into the space,” Mr. Ferriero said. “Three new sections inside are an opportunity for us to present for the first time material dealing with women’s rights, civil rights and immigration.”

The exhibitions will include original documents from the archive vaults, facsimiles, videos and interactive technology, including a 15-foot digital display table that showcases hundreds of documents on issues ranging from workplace rights to the rights of Native Americans, including an 1894 petition from the Hopi Indians asking the government to affirm their land title. The database will also be publicly accessible online.

Archivists debated the value of exhibiting original documents versus digital facsimiles.

“In some cases it’s better to see the digital copy,” said Mr. Ferriero. “There’s crisper reproduction, for example. But I’ve spent a lot of time wandering around the rotunda and the public vaults and see how people experience the documents themselves. I am continually blown away by the emotion displayed. Grandparents bring grandchildren, new citizens being sworn in. They are very powerful documents.”

From the new Rubenstein Gallery, visitors can gain access to the rotunda upstairs and its striking display of the charters of freedom. Surrounding the rotunda are the public vaults, which amount to the nation’s attic — a sampler of documents and artifacts that illuminate some of the broad brush strokes and the gritty detail of American history.

The Rubenstein gallery focuses on three themes.

“Bending Toward Justice” tries to reconcile the realities of slavery and racism with the promise of freedom, regardless of skin color. It includes quotations from the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and questions about how the nation could justify slavery while declaring that all men are created equal.

The exhibit includes the discharge papers of a slave who won his freedom by fighting in the Revolutionary War, documents detailing the role of slaves in building the Capitol and the White House, and a brochure from the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee, which was prominent in the civil rights movement in the 1960s. A 1949 letter from 11-year-old Andrew Evans to President Harry Truman asks why he was barred from a segregated playground.

A second theme, titled “Remembering the Ladies” — from a plea by Abigail Adams to her husband — explores the movements for women’s suffrage and equal rights. That section includes petitions for and against giving women the right to vote and copies of repatriation oaths, which restored women to citizenship after they were divorced from or widowed by a husband who was not an American citizen. A 19th century petition from Amelia Bloomer complains that she is subject to paying taxes on her property but is denied representation.

“Yearning to Breathe Free” chronicles the discrimination and other hardships confronting immigrants to this country. Among the items on display is the 1860 census of Irish and Canadian textile workers in Lowell, Mass.; the case files of a Chinese-American citizen who was denied re-entry to the United States after visiting China in 1873; a 1909 leaflet extolling Texas as a “labor paradise”; a map detailing immigration quotas by country under a 1921 law; a 1924 letter to President Calvin Coolidge from the Women of the Ku Klux Klan calling for immigration restrictions; and copies of two documents dated two years apart that illuminate very different approaches to immigrants — the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 and the 1884 deed to the Statue of Liberty.

The Magna Carta, one of 17 in existence, is the last privately owned copy. In an interview, Mr. Rubenstein said that while more and more documents were being digitized, seeing the real thing “makes people’s jaws drop.”

Asked what impression he would like the gallery to leave people with, he replied: “I came from modest circumstances, and because of the freedoms we have in our country I was able to do certain things. In some countries these rights are not as well protected as I would like. Despite the dysfunction of the government from time to time, in our country we’ve made a lot of progress.”
660 2013-10-27 Canvases by Orientalist painters like Alberto Pasini and Théodore Frère, whose names are not as familiar as those of their more famous colleagues like Gérôme, are also around for the taking, often priced from $10,000 to around $50,000. Cheaper still are oil sketches by some of the great 19th-century artists like Bouguereau and Gérôme. “Many are in the $10,000 to $15,000 range and have the same spontaneity as you’ll find in an Impressionist painting,” Ms. Sartori said.

Drawings in general dating from centuries ago right up through today can be had for anywhere from a few hundred dollars to a few thousand. The same can be said for prints and photographs. You just have to know where to look.

“The most overlooked prints right now are pretty much anything from the 15th century to the beginning of the 20th century,” said Mary Bartow, head of Sotheby’s print department. “Only great images by Rembrandt and Dürer bring over $20,000.” And although they were popular in the 1980s and early 1990s, she added, French color prints by artists like Bonnard, Vuillard, Renoir and Toulouse-Lautrec are considered unfashionable these days and therefore their prices have been in decline.

The array of 20th-century American prints made before 1945 are relatively cheap, too, with those by artists like Thomas Hart Benton, George Bellows and Grant Wood selling for less than $2,500.

Prints made by contemporary artists vary, but they can still be had for a fraction of what a painting by the same artist can fetch.

“You can get great works of art by an artist everyone has heard of,” Ms. Bartow said. “A print by Roy Lichtenstein can be had for $60,000 to $80,000 whereas a painting by him that is the same size, subject and colors can go for around $5 million at auction.”

More affordable, however, are prints by an artist like Jim Dine. “Dine taught printmaking and was very prolific,” Ms. Bartow said. She said that the majority were under $10,000.

That is not to say the market for prints and photographs is either uncharted or undiscovered. At Sotheby’s April print sale, for example, Ms. Bartow reported that there were 75 new bidders from all over the world, including Australia, Russia and Southeast Asia, which was unusual for the auction house.

New collectors are jumping into the photography world, too. “When we gear up for an auction, there are always people asking, ‘How can I get into the market without spending a fortune?” said Denise Bethel, director of photography at Sotheby’s.

While superstars like Alfred Stieglitz, Edward Steichen or Edward Weston as well as contemporary photographers including Cindy Sherman, Andreas Gursky and Thomas Struth command seven figures, there are also what Ms. Bethel called “small masterpieces” available for less than $10,000 and sometimes as little as $5,000, even for a vintage or early print.

“American black-and-white, often nonobjective photography from midcentury — let’s say the 1940s through the 1960s — is terribly undervalued,” she explained.

Among the photographers in this category are Aaron Siskind, Minor White and Wynn Bullock, who has a retrospective coming to the High Museum of Art in Atlanta in June, as well as Rose Mandel, recently the subject of a survey show at the de Young Museum in San Francisco.

There are also areas of Impressionist and modern art where works tend to be undervalued.

“If you look at the Nabi painters like Bonnard and Vuillard, they are an uneven genre,” said Conor Jordan, deputy chairman of Impressionist and modern art at Christie’s. “For years these artists were all the rage, but in the past two decades has there been a cooling off.” Paintings by these artists still command hefty sums; watercolors by them do not. Nor do works on paper by first-rate names including Pissarro, as well as German Expressionist drawings by artists like Hermann Max Pechstein or Ernst Ludwig Kirchner, which can often be discovered for sale in smaller European auction houses. A black-and-white sketch by Pissarro, for instance, can be had for a few thousand dollars.

There are even more opportunities to be discovered in old masters, according to both George Wachter, chairman of that department at Sotheby’s, and his counterpart at Christie’s, Nicholas Hall.

“To be able to buy something of quality painted 400 years ago for under $25,000 is remarkable,” Mr. Hall said. “These artists went through a rigorous training process so they knew, technically, how to draw and how to paint. There is a historical dimension, too. One can find something owned by King Charles I or a portrait of a celebrated pope or prince. In addition, these artists have survived the test of time. They are a known quantity.”

Masters of the Dutch Golden Age are still plentiful. A landscape by Jan Wynants, Mr. Hall said, recently brought $15,000, and a mythological scene by a master like Moses van Uyttenbroeck can go for around $22,000. “This gives collectors a real opportunity,” he said.

When it comes to contemporary art, not everything has skyrocketed. Brett Gorvy, chairman of Christie’s postwar and contemporary art department worldwide, may be one of the driving forces behind the auction house’s record-smashing $495 million sale in May, but his own collecting price tends to be a few thousand and the artists he points to are hardly household names.

There is Bruce Conner, for instance, a San Francisco artist who died in 2008 and was a key figure in the San Francisco beat scene in the late 1950s. “He’s having an upcoming retrospective at the S.F.M.O.M.A.,” Mr. Gorvy said, referring to the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art.

He added that examples of the Gutai artists — members of Japan’s avant-garde postwar collective who were recently the subject of a show at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York — are still within the realm of affordability. Ana Mendieta, a painter, sculptor and video artist who died in 1985, is another name he mentioned, in part because her work in on view at the Hayward Gallery in London.

“These shows are happening everywhere, all the time,” Mr. Gorvy said. “Pay attention: they’re out there, but because they are out of fashion they don’t get any buzz. They’re the kind of thing museum curators go crazy for.”
661 2013-10-27 The modern history of Aston Martin starts with the 1947 purchase of the company by David Brown, an industrialist who was perhaps looking to ennoble himself after making a fortune in tractors. Those beasts of burden enabled him to finance the development of DB models — the name is derived from his initials — through the DB6 series.

Recognition of the brand, at least in popular culture, took off in 1964 when the newest model co-starred in “Goldfinger.” Ian Fleming had put Agent 007 at the wheel of an Aston, though the casting credit must be shared with the film’s producer, Albert Broccoli, whose vision of James Bond included a DB5. Sean Connery’s portrayal of Bond played a role in the film’s romantic conquests, to be sure, but the DB5’s sex appeal certainly helped matters.

The present happy state of Aston Martin is doubly remarkable for a marque initially overshadowed in racing by Alfa Romeo, Bentley and Bugatti. In the 1920s, Aston Martin shared a niche with brands like Alvis, Frazer Nash, Lea-Francis and Riley.

Mighty oaks grow from acorns, but their survival can be precarious. When Robert Bamford left Aston Martin in 1920, only two cars had been built. Things picked up slightly, and 61 cars were sold by 1925, when the company was rescued from bankruptcy. The next year, Aston Martin was sold to a racecar driver and designer, A. C. Bertelli, and an engineer, William Renwick, who would produce the International, Le Mans and Ulster models that established Aston’s prewar reputation.

Postwar austerity seemed to hold little promise for Aston Martin, though around the time Brown bought the company, it began using the last engine designed by W. O. Bentley. That 2.6-liter twin-cam 6-cylinder that powered DB cars for 10 years. In 1958, a 3.7-liter aluminum 6 replaced it in the DB4. The two engines drove Aston Martins through 1972.

With that DB4, Aston Martin made the jump from rather staid British sports car to elegant grand tourer, and the DB5 and DB6 were at least the equal of road-going models from Ferrari and Maserati. The DB4, DB5 and DB6 also became symbols of upper-class England in the Swinging ’60s.

A believer in the precept that winning on the racetrack would bolster sales, David Brown hired John Wyer to enter three cars for the 24 Hours of Le Mans in 1950. They finished fifth and sixth over all. Aston bought advertisements in motoring publications and persuaded Americans — including Phil Hill, the future Formula One world champion, and the sportsman Briggs Cunningham — to buy DB2s.

The most exotic and expensive Aston Martins are racing models from this period. Stirling Moss switched to Aston in 1956, scoring two wins and three second-place finishes in a rakish DB3S. Aston Martin finally won the Le Mans 24-hour race in 1959 with Carroll Shelby and Roy Salvadori.

The company languished in the 1970s and ’80s with less elegant V-8 models, though its loyal enthusiasts included Prince Charles. Still, for many, the marque’s low point came in 1987 when Ford bought control. To some, the improved assembly quality of the cars was offset by the stigma of parts obtained from Jaguar’s warehouse.

It was during the Ford era, in 1993, that the supercharged 6-cylinder DB7, designed by Ian Callum, reawakened interest in the marque. Ford sold its interest in 2007. This bumpy road was all but forgotten during the centennial celebrations this year.

In June, the company opened a Heritage Showroom at the old factory in Newport Pagnell, catering to the needs of classic models. The next month, in London, Aston Martin filled Kensington Gardens with 550 cars and attracted 50,000 visitors. The marque’s largest-ever gathering attracted cars from A3, the oldest survivor, to the new CC100 Speedster Concept, along with seven of the James Bond movie cars.

In August, on the Monterey Peninsula of California, the Pebble Beach Concours d’Élégance featured a 13-strong Aston Martin Centennial Class, won by the 1953 Aston Martin Bertone DB2/4 roadster of Bill and Linda Pope of Paradise, Ariz.

Because of its lovingly polished image and more recent introductions like the One-77 supercar (2009) and acclaimed Rapide sedan (2011), the company is never short of admirers.

“Aston Martin has never been more successful than it is these days,” said David Adams of West Linn, Ore., a restorer who has owned 20 DBs over 30 years. “There’s so much new blood, it’s driving up the values of the vintage cars.”
662 2013-10-27 Bates knew that one group of butterflies should be easy targets for predators, because they fly by day, dawdling along la-lala-lala in plain sight. But he was also puzzled to notice that these butterflies dressed themselves up in flashy colors, as if to advertise their vulnerability. He eventually realized that those flashy colors matched the colors of another species in the neighborhood. And this model species turned out to taste so thoroughly repulsive that predators quickly learned to leave them alone. The mimics, on the other hand, tasted just fine. But their disguise tricked birds, lizards, dragonflies, robber flies and other predators into leaving them unmolested.

Masters of Batesian mimicry abound in the natural world. For instance, the mimic octopus (Thaumoctopus mimicus) can’t deliver a venomous bite or sting. But it changes its shape to mimic dangerous sea snakes and lionfish, which can. Aardwolves are harmless and solitary insect eaters on the African plains, but they wear the same stripes as their fierce pack-hunting neighbors, the hyenas, which might discourage predators. Cuckoos also put on stripes, more aggressively. They live by tricking other birds into rearing their young, and that means slipping an egg into its foster home undetected. So they mimic sparrow hawks to scare off the future foster parents. And meek little moths, beetles and hoverflies do an almost perfect imitation of common wasps.

Modes of disguise also tend to be repeated from place to place. If a disguise works in one place, it is highly probable that species elsewhere will have tried it, too. (Scientists call this convergent evolution.) Mr. George says there’s another bird poop mimic, a moth, near his home in Bangalore, India. (He recognized it only because he was puzzled one day to notice two exactly identical bird poops side by side on a leaf.) In Malaysia, a spectacular adult moth, Macrocilix maia, one-ups the poop mimics by mimicking bird poop on its body, and two flies feeding on the poop on its wings.

And in Costa Rica, metalmark moths in the genus Brenthia flare out their wings at a slight angle above the body to imitate jumping spiders. Looking at photographs, I don’t quite see the resemblance. But it works well enough, according to a 2006 study in the journal PLoS One, that predatory jumping spiders almost always leave them alone — and sometimes run away screaming into the night.

All this is just Batesian mimicry. We’re not even going to talk about Müllerian, Wasmannian or Bakerian mimicry. Or the kind of mimicry that happens only by sound or smell. Oh, and then there’s intersexual mimicry — that is, cross-dressing. (Good morning, Mr. Cuttlefish, love the skirt.)

The bottom line is that when folks head out to trick or treat this Halloween, even that Miley Cyrus costume will not rate as the strangest and scariest disguise in the neighborhood. A Ted Cruz costume, on the other hand, just might be a contender.
663 2013-10-27 How do you want your jolts? Steady state, like a finger stuck in a socket? Or frantic, angular and quick changing, like a haywire carnival ride? Both kinds are available this week from experienced administrators of their chosen thrills: Thee Oh Sees, from San Francisco, and Melt-Banana, from Tokyo.

Thee Oh Sees have taken garage-rock and merged it with a kinetic Minimalism. Their songs bear down: sustain, riff, repeat repeat repeat. Somewhere in the welter are lyrics with horror tales and existential questions, but they’d have to be read before or afterward; onstage, it’s all jitter, drone and buzz. Arrive early; Thee Oh Sees’ sets are as short as they are intense. (7 p.m. Tuesday, Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, 212-777-6800, irvingplaza.com; $24.70.)

Melt-Banana is a definitive noise-rock band: the high-voiced singer and lyricist Yasuko Onuki and the wildly changeable guitarist Ichirou Agata. Together they create hyperactive, virtuosic songs that pound, sputter, shriek, squeal and zap, which doesn’t stop them from being catchy. (8 p.m. Friday, Saint Vitus, 1120 Manhattan Avenue, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, saintvitusbar.com; $17.)
664 2013-10-27 ALL IS FAIR IN LOVE AND TWITTER

If there’s one lesson that comes from Twitter’s messy origins and chaotic upbringing, it is that you can do as much damage to an idea by trying to force it into a specific mold as you can by letting it breathe and evolve on its own. It may have been an accident that Twitter was so open and free of constraints in the beginning, but without all of that chaos and confusion, I’m not sure Twitter would exist at all. MATTHEW INGRAM, posted on Gigaom.com

When I first learned about Twitter in 2006, I turned to my cubicle mate and said, “I need to tell you about the dumbest idea I’ve ever heard.” I felt a little bad, then, and so I went to Twitter.com, created an account and poked around for a bit. No, I decided, this is definitely the dumbest idea I’ve ever seen. I blew off Twitter in part because I had just spent a year managing an online community, and I had grown to hate it. People online are cranky, needy and boring. Yet every year or so, a younger colleague comes around to explain with patient condescension that I could expand my reach if I spent more time on Twitter. BRENDAN GREELEY, posted on businessweek.com

THE FINAL INSULT IN THE BUSH-CHENEY MARRIAGE

While I applaud the attempt to make Bush look more thoughtful than he ever appeared to be, this article completely avoids the fact that, at the time that he was so preoccupied with Scooter Libby, the country and the world were spiraling into a recession that looked very much like it may be the next Great Depression. His obsession with how Cheney was going to be upset with him may make him look more human absent the facts, but placed in context, it is actually yet another example of his ridiculous inability to grasp the scale of the problems our country was facing. MEGAN WILSON, Los Angeles, posted on nytimes.com

This article reads like an insider channeling the self-serving accounts of insiders. It’s not really surprising that it became clear to Bush that Cheney had his own agenda. He wasn’t helping Bush make decisions but manipulating him to make the decision Cheney wanted. That is the difference between a “puppeteer” and an “adviser.” ROSS WILLIAMS, Grand Rapids, Minn., posted on nytimes.com

Bush drew from his moral convictions and finally pushed back against Cheney’s influence, which most likely began to suffocate him. Ironically, the confident, more ethically aware and mature Bush would probably make a far better president now than he ever was, and this is reflected in the opinion polls. JEFF BRENNER, New York, posted on nytimes.com

Peter Baker quotes Cheney saying to Bush, in reference to Scooter Libby: “You are leaving a good man wounded on the field of battle.” I can’t think of a less appropriate analogy. JONATHAN P. MICHAUD, Somerville, Mass., posted on nytimes.com

The popularity of “Jackass” (and I am a big fan) is the sign of mental and emotional health of Americans, not the lack thereof. I won’t let tastemakers and their pretentious prattling about portrayed crassness get in my way of enjoying a carefully curated set of dangerous and dumb pranks. Taking a dump in a showroom for commodes takes guts. KALIDAN, Rochester, posted on nytimes.com
665 2013-10-27 “We didn’t really turn it up until the team started winning a lot, around 2005,” said Mr. Morris, 54, of Somerset, a financial adviser and, like Mr. Burzichelli, a Rutgers alumnus. Now he and his friends’ tailgate parties may be the most celebrated in New Jersey college football: Mayor Cory A. Booker of Newark (now a senator-elect) stopped by the party in September, Mr. Morris said, and Gov. Chris Christie visited in 2010.

Depending on the size of the game — the Arkansas game drew a crowd of 52,000 — Mr. Morris and Mr. Burzichelli spend $500 to $1,500 for food and on-site cooking by William Hendriksen, the owner of Cedar Grove. (Ms. Luther-Umstadter, a more recent addition to the hosting team, supplements the menu with her own dishes and provides the crystal chandelier that hangs from the dome of the party’s tent.) Many guests contribute $20 or $30 to partake, but “we don’t worry too much about offsetting what we’re putting into it,” Mr. Morris said.

Never missing from the menu, which varies from game to game, is Mr. Hendriksen’s Cap’n Crunch chicken, coated with the breakfast cereal before it is grilled.

“People will literally come just for the chicken,” Mr. Morris said.

Mr. Hendriksen, 52, of South Brunswick, caters up to six tailgate parties per game at the stadium. “You need an all-access pass, and I make sure to get one at the beginning of the season,” he said. For a caterer who does not have an all-access pass, like Michael Pelligra, co-owner of Twin Oaks Caterers in East Brunswick, getting into the lot can be “a challenge,” which is why he accepts only jobs for 100 tailgaters or more, he said. Prices begin at $20 a person and include a Texas-style barbecue buffet or, for early games, a brunch with Belgian waffles.

At MetLife Stadium, the best-appointed tailgates are sometimes corporate. Companies like Top Shelf Tailgate of Port Monmouth regularly put on bashes that include waitress service by young women dressed in football jerseys and the use of two trailers equipped with sofas, restrooms and televisions.

“We’re booked through November” for Jets and Giants games, said Charles Mulea, Top Shelf’s owner, before a recent Giants game against the Denver Broncos. Many of the companies that hire Top Shelf, he said, do not want to be identified; their goal is to mingle with clients in what Mr. Mulea, 43, of Middletown, called “a real party atmosphere” before games.

Top Shelf charges $100 a person for a menu including specialties like filet mignon cheese steaks. “But we’ve gone as high as $200 a head for a full oyster bar with shuckers and a pig roast,” he said.

Some MetLife caterers, such as Bill Kleemeyer, the manager of Green Village Packing, a meat supplier in Green Village in Morris County, focus more on food than on atmosphere. Mr. Kleemeyer, 47, has earned a reputation for distinctive meats; he offers pork osso buco and has barbecued alligators for Giants fans. He has been catering games for nearly 20 years, he said, for groups ranging from 20 to 200. A typical tailgate party costs $30 to $40 a person, which includes “pretty much five hours of me grilling a different meat every half-hour,” he said. But he keeps his fees negotiable, sometimes exchanging his meat-sourcing and cooking skills for tickets.

Not all catered tailgate parties at MetLife Stadium are exclusive or private.

Dan Marney, owner of Game Time Catering, LLC, in Long Valley, caters private and corporate events in the parking lot, but he also rallies stray fans looking for a celebration with what he calls “open parties” at Giants home games. They feature his signature candied kielbasa, in addition to macaroni and cheese balls and staples like burgers.

Mr. Marney asks for a donation of $30 a person, which is made online in advance, because stadium rules prohibit charging fees in the parking lots; the donation does not include drinks, he said, because stadium rules prohibit the sale of alcohol. He typically attracts 60 to 100 fans from all over, who mingle under a tent and watch the pregame show on a TV he supplies.

John Vingara, 51, a culinary arts instructor at Somerset County Vocational and Technical Schools in Bridgewater and one of the founding members of Big Blue BBQ, a collective of tailgating friends and Giants obsessives, offers similar events that attract up to 200 people.

“We welcome people from all over the world,” he said, for the lamb chops, stuffed peppers and other hot dishes he prepares for games. A $30 donation is requested in advance.

The appeal is in the “shared experience,” he said. “If you’ve ever been camping, where you’re all sitting around the campfire — it’s like that. You develop friendships that last forever.”
666 2013-10-28 REICHMANN--Paul.We mourn the loss of a friend and mentor who shared our vision in the 1980's to build a formidable and beautiful traditional Jewish Living Center at one of our nation's premiere secular universities. The Senior Alumni of The Center...
667 2013-10-28 Why do we lock lips in romantic relationships? It’s complicated, according to researchers at Oxford University. It’s less about sex and more about assessing potential mates than you may think....
668 2013-10-28 In the skewed logic of the boycott, academic freedom means abandoning its precepts when your political considerations outweigh them....
669 2013-10-28 The 16th season of Lincoln Center’s American Songbook series will begin Jan. 22 with a free concert featuring an artist yet to be named....
670 2013-10-28 Driving up inflation might feel a lot like a national sales tax. A key question is whether the tax would be permanent....
671 2013-10-28 Daniel Kahneman describes it this way in his book “Thinking, Fast and Slow”: “We are prone to exaggerate the consistency and coherence of what we see.” A few lines later he explains why: “We are pattern seekers, believers in a coherent world, in which regularities … appear not by accident but as a result of mechanical causality or of someone’s intention.”

Life is more random than we care to admit. I suspect it’s because randomness implies uncertainty and a lack of control. But when we try to assign meaning to one or two events, it can blind us to what’s really happening.

For instance, think back to 2008-9. At the time, it was incredibly painful for some people to own a home. If they weren’t upside down on their mortgage, the chances were good that the home value itself was significantly lower than in previous years.

Now, if you were one of those homeowners, it would be really easy to say, “I never want to own a home again.” But if that decision is based solely on that one, albeit painful, experience, it may be a decision based on a cognitive bias.

Yes, owning a home isn’t the best option for everyone. Making big financial decisions like buying a home, however, requires more than one data point, like the pain of owning in 2008-9 or a statistic that says everyone should now rent.

Making big financial decisions based on one or two events that may or may not be related is a horrible strategy. I say this as a person who now thinks twice about owning a home and looks for deer at the same spot in the road. But how can we determine if we’re acting based on bias or fact?

First, it helps to acknowledge that what we think we know may be biased. Recognizing that a bias exists can help us take the next step: questioning what we think we know. Does our desire to act come from one moment in time or a moment combined with other objective data? Second, we need to treat certain numbers, like statistics, with caution.

Statistics can be like that deer I saw on the road. We see a number and project out all sorts of consequences from it. The reality is that even statisticians don’t always know what the numbers mean. I do understand why it’s so tempting to make decisions based solely on numbers, however, even if we’re relying on a small sample size.

Numbers appear to be hard facts. Yet it seems to me that it’s very easy for us to take them out of context. As a result, we don’t always understand how a particular number relates to our individual situations (if it does at all).

Finally, we need to give ourselves a break. There’s a ton of pressure for us to act when these single events happen. If we don’t act, then there’s the fear we’ve made a mistake, that we didn’t see the signs, so we deserve it if bad things happen to us as a result.

Life is random, and at times, we’ll have to act with limited information. That said, we shouldn’t cheat ourselves out of the opportunity to take advantage of all the information we do have. And it’s rare that one moment in time will give us enough information to make the big decisions.
672 2013-10-28 Mr. Gibb said Belvedere associates itself “with a great night out and with people who are in the know about life, in the know about vodka.”

A second, 15-second spot depicts ice being chopped and vodka being poured from Belvedere’s distinctive bottle, decorated with branches of a tree; John Osborn, president of BBDO New York, called the bottle “one of the most powerful brand levers we have.” The voice-over says, “You may not know it’s made from rye. Or pure water from its own artesian well. Or distilled according to a 600-year-old Polish tradition. But when a bartender asks, ‘What are you having?' ”

Both this spot and the longer one end with a new tagline created by BBDO and Belvedere for the campaign, “Belvedere. Know the difference.”

The spots are running on cable television channels in the United States like ESPN, TNT Sports, AMC, History Channel and Comedy Channel, while they may also run in Britain in movie theaters.

In addition, the brand’s Facebook and Twitter accounts direct viewers to the spots on YouTube.

Mr. Osborn said Belvedere had a “very distinctive point of view that’s different from the product angle and the user angle. It’s not often you hear of vodka made from rye; others are made from other grains.”

“It’s also consumed by a generation of people who are social, fun and engaging. There’s nothing else quite like it in the category,” he added.

Mr. Gibb said the target market for the new advertising was 25- to 40-year-old consumers, “fairly balanced between male and female. They are very active, they socialize, go out a lot. They’re the type of people who know where to go, what to do, how to do it.”

The music accompanying the spots, chosen to appeal to its target consumers, is “Train,” by the English band Goldfrapp. Mr. Osborn called it “absolutely infectious. It’s upbeat, social and helps convey the energetic nature of the brand. It provides the heartbeat to an evening, it’s the pulse of the brand.”

Mr. Gibb also said the new campaign was meant to be “much more reflective of the way we see consumers at the moment. They’re seeking to understand brands more, to understand what sits behind the brand. We know we have a very rich story, so we’re focusing on what makes Belvedere different. We are much more reinforcing the strong credentials we know we have as a brand.”

Besides the TV spots, Belvedere, which is sold in 100 countries, will expand the campaign globally in the next 18 months, advertising in Australia, Asia and elsewhere in Europe. BBDO will also create print, outdoor and digital advertising for the brand. Mr. Gibb said TV was the primary medium being used now, since it could create “maximum impact, particularly at this time of year.”

He said Belvedere would spend more on this campaign than it ever had before, though he declined to quantify expenditures. According to Kantar Media, the brand’s largest United States advertising budget in recent years was $12.2 million, spent last year.
673 2013-10-28 The South Korean giant has almost $40 billion in cash. It can afford to mimic Apple by giving more to investors....
674 2013-10-28 A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors....
675 2013-10-28 It’s easy to be dressy and pared-down at the same time: the trick lies in the cut and the fabric....
676 2013-10-28 How one store competes at Halloween. Why independent funeral homes are struggling. Are economists nice people?...
677 2013-10-28 2. Whisk together the soy sauce, ginger, garlic, cayenne, honey or agave nectar, lime juice, miso, mirin, and oils. Pour into a dish that can accommodate all of the tofu slices in a single layer (such as a baking dish). Place the tofu slices in the marinade and turn them over. Leave to marinate for 15 minutes, turning once or twice. Transfer to the baking sheet. Add the peppers to the dish with the marinade and toss to coat thoroughly, then place on the baking sheet in a single layer.

3. Place the baking sheet in the oven and roast for 15 to 20 minutes, turning the peppers once with tongs, until the edges of the tofu are just beginning to color and the marinade sets on the surface, and the peppers are sizzling and beginning to color on the edges. Remove from the heat.

4. If desired, heat the kimchi in a small pan or saucepan. Spoon rice into 4 wide bowls or onto plates. Top with kimchi, tofu, and peppers. If desired, douse the rice with some of the remaining marinade from the tofu, and serve.

Advance preparation: The marinade will keep for about 3 days in the refrigerator.

Nutritional information per serving: 461 calories; 21 grams fat; 2 grams saturated fat; 12 grams polyunsaturated fat; 5 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 52 grams carbohydrates; 7 grams dietary fiber; 623 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 16 grams protein

Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”
678 2013-10-28 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
679 2013-10-28 The American Ted Ligety won the season-opening men’s World Cup giant slalom race in Sölden, Austria, on Sunday, and Bode Miller finished 19th in his return to the circuit.
680 2013-10-28 Part 5: The actors talk about acting together in theater and the experience of watching each other work.
681 2013-10-28 ■ Roku, Saratoga, Calif., chose Butler, Shine, Stern & Partners, Sausalito, Calif., to handle its account, which had been handled by Division of Labor, Sausalito. Spending was estimated at $10 million.

■ Sharp Electronics Marketing of America, Mahwah, N.J., part of the Sharp Corporation of Japan, selected Olson, Minneapolis, as its agency of record, to handle tasks like advertising, digital and design. The assignment was previously handled by McGarryBowen, New York, part of the Dentsu Aegis Network division of Dentsu. Spending was estimated at more than $9 million.

■ Lydell Capritta joined Olson, Minneapolis, as the first president of its brand and digital unit, assuming duties from John Partilla, who continues as chief executive of the agency. Mr. Capritta previously worked at agencies that included Atomic Playpen and Digitaria.

■ Samantha Johnson joined TDA_Boulder as media director, succeeding Sarah Tefs, who relocated to Virginia for family reasons, the agency said. Ms. Johnson had been communications director at the Los Angeles office of Saatchi & Saatchi, part of the Publicis Groupe.

■ Brendan Monaghan and Sebastian Tomich joined The New York Times as vice presidents for advertising, as part of a reorganization. Mr. Monaghan becomes vice president for luxury advertising and publisher of T: The New York Times Style Magazine; he had been associate publisher at GQ magazine, part of the Condé Nast division of Advance Publications. Mr. Tomich becomes vice president for several advertising categories that include travel, corporate and advocacy, and will oversee the Dallas sales office of The Times; he most recently was Eastern advertising director at Forbes magazine.

■ E. B. Lane, Phoenix, an advertising and public relations agency, and Terralever, Tempe, Ariz., a digital marketing agency, have merged to form LaneTerralever. Financial terms were not disclosed. The merged agency, which also has an office in Denver, has more than 100 employees. Beau Lane, chief executive of E. B. Lane, becomes chief executive of the merged agency. Chris Johnson, chief executive of Terralever, becomes president of the merged agency. Todd Bresnahan, president of E. B. Lane, becomes chief operating officer of LaneTerralever.

■ Chime Communications, London, acquired Just Marketing Inc., Indianapolis, also known as JMI, a marketing agency focused on motor sports, for $70.6 million. JMI, which also has offices in Hong Kong and London, will become part of the Chime sports marketing division, CSM Sport and Entertainment. The deal, Chime said, signals its expansion into the United States market. JMI concentrates primarily on Formula One, IndyCar and Nascar motor sports.
682 2013-10-28 Officials worry that insurance risk pools could become too risky if not enough younger people sign up for coverage, causing premiums to escalate....
683 2013-10-28 The majority of the country supports same-sex marriage, and among people 18 to 29 years old, a demographic that makes up the bulk of Gawker’s audience, polls show that 70 percent believe that gay marriage should be legal.

The frisson of the Gawker tidbit was supposed to derive from the contextual equation — Fox News + gay = hypocrisy — but the channel has hardly been of one voice on the issue and there is no indication that it has any special obsession with sexual orientation, like, say, Gawker.

From what I can tell, Fox News has done a decent job of representing the broad range of conservative views on same-sex marriage and seems to have, along with the rest of the country, evolved. Bill O’Reilly, who once suggested that gay marriage could lead to nuptials between humans and turtles, has come around to the point that in March, he said he had been convinced that the government should not decide who should marry.

“The compelling argument is on the side of homosexuals,” he said in a conversation with Megyn Kelly, a rising star at Fox News. “That is where the compelling argument is. We’re Americans. We just want to be treated like everybody else.”

Ms. Kelly has made the point that interracial marriages were once banned. “Why is gay marriage any different?” she has said more than once.

Gawker seems sadly old-school by comparison. By covering the issue in the context of a throwdown with a waitress, Gawker backed into the reveal of what the item was really about, suggesting something was weird and spicy about it.

This is not one of those instances in which a public figure, in the course of doing his day job, has engaged in the hypocrisy of condemning in public what he actually practices in private. I have no certainty or interest in what Mr. Smith’s sexual orientation is, but I can say as an occasional viewer of his newscast that he plays it pretty much down the middle. Always has.

Gawker, which is run by Nick Denton, who is openly gay, seems to have a bit of a thing for homosexuality. Until Anderson Cooper of CNN decided to publicly announce that he is gay, the site pounded on him over and over, more or less demanding that he acknowledge it.

Eventually Mr. Cooper wrote an open letter saying he is gay, and there was a short burst of coverage, but nothing changed in terms of how he was seen, which suggests most people have moved on.

When I called Gawker to ask what was up with the sudden fixation on Mr. Smith’s love life, John Cook, the editor, sent me a number of links suggesting that last week’s item was just one in a series of posts about Mr. Smith’s sexuality. Which makes it weirder, really, not any more understandable.

The writer, Mr. Trotter, said on Thursday that the item was interesting in and of itself, but that it was also the kind of post that would lead to more incoming calls and specifics that could lead to more and better coverage. “Stay tuned,” he advised.

The other shoe, or more like a cheap rubber sandal, dropped on Friday, when Gawker revealed that the reported boyfriend had been a production assistant at Fox News, including working for Mr. Smith. Shocking that, a workplace romance between unmarried individuals.

With that, the hunt was on, but according to Mr. Trotter, the companion “has not returned multiple e-mails sent to three different e-mail addresses, a LinkedIn message, five text messages and three voice mails left on his cellphone.” The reporter also knock-knocked his house.

Why, as one commenter on Gawker asked, “are you guys harassing this dude?” Presumably, the objective was to confirm that he was indeed having a relationship with another consenting unmarried adult. Both men have been forced to hide the last few days as Gawker turned up the heat, hunted for reported gayness, like in the bad old days.

By doing a takedown on Mr. Smith, Gawker, which trades on its bracingly modern approach to news, comes off as moralistic and invasive, while Fox News seems oddly open-minded and pragmatic in comparison.

Of course, by writing about the Gawker coverage, I’m implicated even as I cluck my tongue, obsessing over someone obsessing over someone else’s sexuality; it feels icky and very meta at the same time. I made quite a few phone calls mulling it over and talking with people, trying to understand if I was pointing at a problem or just becoming part of it.

My last call was to Mr. Denton, who could not hide his amusement at my pickle.

“Look upon yourselves,” he said, pointing at The New York Times. “You wait until someone dies and then maybe, just maybe, you may hint that they may have been gay in the obituary.”

He said the original post buried the gay reference because “some of our writers are more squeamish than I am.”

“It is titillating and interesting, in the same way as if he were with a woman half his age or twice his age,” he said. “People care who other people are dating if one is big and one is small or one is white and one is black. Why should there be this weird double standard around gay celebrity?”

I asked Mr. Denton, who took his own time coming out, why he was interested in changing the timetables of others.

“You could argue that my own history and my experience of untold truths has made me impatient, but what I care about is lies and exposing them,” he said.

Many argue that there is an implicit contract between the public and celebrities: that if we deem someone famous, and they reap the benefits of that, they forfeit their right to privacy. But being gay carries no higher burden. Not talking about something that people do not seem to care about is not really a secret. It’s just a choice.
684 2013-10-28 LOS ANGELES — There are those who didn’t much care for “The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford.” They include The New York Times critic Manohla Dargis, who called it “lachrymose” and “another gauzy chapter to the overtaxed James myth.”

And there are those who simply missed it. That would be almost everyone, as the film, directed by Andrew Dominik with Brad Pitt and Casey Affleck in its title roles, took in just $3.9 million at the domestic box office during its very limited release by Warner Brothers six years ago.

But there are also those who can’t let go — and they have found an apostle in Jamieson McGonigle, of New York.

Mr. McGonigle, who is 28 and works as a television editor, has been thinking about “The Assassination of Jesse James” since he first saw it, on opening night, Sept. 21, 2007, at the Angelika Theater in New York. “I walked out completely mesmerized and entranced — it was, like, what did I just see?” recalled Mr. McGonigle, who spoke last week by telephone.

Mr. McGonigle would occasionally discuss the experience with friends who felt the same. About two years ago, he even began shopping for a print, and was eventually able to buy one, from a film preservationist in Chicago.

When he decided to get married, early next year, inside the Museum of the Moving Image in Queens (which occasionally hosts weddings), Mr. McGonigle was still thinking about the ill-fated Jesse James film. By finagling a package deal with his nuptials, he figured, he might be able to get a discount on space to screen his print at the museum, as sort of a bachelor party.
685 2013-10-28 His journey to becoming a household name began on a sunny Friday afternoon in late June 2012. Lexie Sanders, 7 at the time, was eating a Popsicle in her backyard with two friends.

As the girls were leaving, Lexie clutched the 25-foot rubber-coated cable that tethered Phineas to a chain-link fence, but she tripped. The next thing she knew, she said, her friend, Kendall Woolman, 7 at the time, had fallen and rolled beneath the high-sprung Chevy pickup truck in the driveway. Kendall screamed and cried.

Lexie said she did not see Phineas bite Kendall, but the other friend, also 7, told the police that she saw him bite her left rib cage and drag her about four feet.

Later that evening, Jarred Brown, the town’s code officer, took Phineas for what was supposed to be a 10-day quarantine while the case was investigated. But the four-year-old Labrador never returned.

After accusations arose of two previous unreported biting episodes, the Salem mayor, Gary Brown, deemed Phineas a vicious dog under town ordinance, and ordered him euthanized. The dog’s execution was delayed by a court appeal — and there was a brief, unexplained disappearance last fall — but then reinstated in March by Judge Scott Bernstein. City officials quickly moved Phineas to a secret location — it turned out to be the basement garage bay at the fire station — so he would not be snatched before his execution.

Running out of options, Phineas supporters got in touch with the Lexus Project, a dog rescue operation based in New York State. The group set up a “Save Phineas” Facebook page that quickly drew tens of thousands of “likes” (now up to nearly 180,000) and was the catalyst behind a rally and “Save Phineas” billboards along an interstate highway.

Kendall Woolman’s family said they received threats. Joseph P. Simon, a lawyer for the Sanders family, accused a relative of the Woolmans of calling Salem “his sandbox” and threatening to exert his influence on city officials to make sure Phineas died.

The story caught the attention of David Backes, the captain of the St. Louis Blues hockey team, who offered to fly to Salem to rescue the dog and take it to a no-kill shelter.

Approaching his execution date in late April, Phineas got another stay when Mr. Simon appealed for a new trial.

With the case pending, Jackie Overby, a Salem resident, said she asked the city administrator, Clayton Lucas, if he could give her the dog so she could usher him away to safety. A few days later, she said, Mr. Lucas showed up at her job and said, “We want the dog gone,” and told her that they could make arrangements for her to secretly take him.

Mr. Lucas denied ever making such an arrangement. (Mr. Brown, the mayor, conceded to joking with Mr. Lucas about letting someone kidnap Phineas.)

In late May, city officials moved Phineas into Dr. J. J. Tune’s veterinary office near downtown, but the doctor said he feared that the dog would be stolen because of all the attention and because his clinic was not well secured.

Sure enough, when Meridith Michaels opened the clinic about 7:30 a.m. on Saturday, Oct. 12, Phineas was nowhere to be found. No sign of forced entry, no clues.

“My heart sank to the bottom of the ground,” she said.

The Sanderses feared the worst — that someone had either taken him for ransom or killed him. Ms. Sanders, 28, searched the woods.

Concern and doubt festered for days, until a rainy night, the day after the latest court hearing to decide Phineas’s fate. As the Sanderses cleaned up from dinner with their four children, the man appeared at their door, asking for them by name.

“I just want to tell you,” he said, “that Phineas is doing just fine.”

The man explained that he had seen a Phineas billboard and read about the case on Facebook. Sympathetic, he snatched Phineas and took him to a safe place where he was playing with another dog, the man told them, his fake mustache slipping down his face.

He asked them to set up a safe house, they said, where he could bring Phineas for them to play with. But he did not trust cellphones. So he asked them to activate a landline, and when they had the safe house ready, they were to post the sentence, “I saw a dog today that reminded me of Phineas,” on the Facebook page. That would be his signal to call and arrange a meeting.

Ms. Sanders posted the message last Monday, and the man called on Wednesday night from a disposable cellphone. He arranged to return Phineas to them on Saturday morning. With the judge’s decision still pending, they were not taking any chances: They planned to ship Phineas to an undisclosed location.

Yet in a final twist, Judge Bernstein essentially said Friday that the drama should never have happened. He ruled that Phineas did not even bite the girl and overturned the death sentence.

Still worried that people might want to harm Phineas, the Sanderses kept the Saturday reunion secret. The man, wearing his fake beard, arrived at the drop point in a rural patch surrounded by dirt roads before the Sanderses arrived, and when an intermediary told him they were still on their way, he left Phineas and said, “Well, I’ve got to go.”

Minutes later, Salem’s most popular dog was bounding into his owners’ arms.
686 2013-10-28 Mr. Ivanishvili tapped his fortune to make a forceful entry into politics last year, creating Georgian Dream, an alliance of minor opposition parties, to compete in parliamentary elections with the main goal of dislodging Mr. Saakashvili. He pulled off an upset victory prompted partly by the disclosure of videos showing abuse of prison inmates.

Mr. Saakashvili was widely acclaimed abroad as a leading champion of democracy in the ex-Soviet Union, winning numerous fans, including Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush, with his gregarious personality. But he was increasingly unpopular at home, accused of allowing human rights violations by overly aggressive security services in a nation that the West has cultivated as a bulwark of democracy in the post-Soviet space.

The loss in the parliamentary elections by his party, United National Movement, left Mr. Saakashvili to serve his final year in office in the awkward role of an opposition figure. Still, his decision to accept the results and to respect a constitutional limit of two terms in office made for a peaceful, democratic transfer of power, a rarity in the ex-Soviet Union.

United National Movement’s presidential candidate, the leader of its minority faction in Parliament, David Bakradze, finished second in Sunday’s balloting, according to the exit polls. He was followed by Nino Burjanadze, a former speaker of Parliament.

In interviews on Sunday, many voters said that they were content to cast their vote for Mr. Margvelashvili, who they said appeared to be a well-intentioned public official without the outsized personality of Mr. Saakashvili or Mr. Ivanishvili.

“He is a normal person,” said Bondo Pankvelashvili, 75, a retired driver, outside polling station 19 in the Vera neighborhood of Tbilisi, the capital. “This is a problem with society. They are looking for a messiah and waiting for him to do something. Until we have a strong civil society, nothing will change. This is what we got from Soviet times.”

Nana Gamcemlidze, 51, an elementary school teacher who voted in the middle-class neighborhood of Saburtalo, praised Mr. Margvelashvili as education minister for making schoolbooks free for children. “He has a clean slate, has never played political games,” Ms. Gamcemligze said. “He does not have the attitude of someone who is power hungry.”

Giorgi Kipiani, 51, a small-business owner who came to vote pushing his 6-month-old grandson, also Giorgi, in a stroller, said that he was comfortable with Mr. Ivanishvili stepping down. “He doesn’t give up that he is responsible,” Mr. Kipiani said, adding that if one had as much money as Mr. Ivanishvili, “Would you really want to stay in the Georgian government?”

Election officials said that turnout was relatively low, 46.6 percent, compared with 61 percent in parliamentary balloting a year ago, but several voters praised the atmosphere of tranquillity. That was a marked departure from last year, when many predicted that the parliamentary elections would end with violent protests or even a civil war.

Merab Koiava, 80, a retired geologist in a state agency, voted for Mr. Bakradze even as he lamented the way that Mr. Saakashvili’s tenure had ended on sour notes. “In the beginning he was so great.” Mr. Koiava said. “I have no idea why he started to make mistakes. Maybe it was the people who were around him.”

Like many Georgians, Mr. Koiava said Mr. Saakaskhvili deserved credit for transforming a country that was largely in political and economic chaos. “Georgia started looking like a state,” he said, “and this town started looking like a capital.”

Since losing power, numerous officials who served in Mr. Saakashvili’s administration have been arrested and charged with crimes. Critics of Mr. Ivanishvili say that the cases are nothing more than ruthless political retribution, while members of the current government say they are intended to hold former officials accountable for corruption and abuse of authority, and to answer demands by the public for justice.

Mr. Ivanishvili in a speech to supporters on Sunday said that the presidential election showed that Georgia had joined “European civilization.” An announcement about his successor as prime minister is expected this week. Speculation has focused on the minister of labor, health and social affairs, David Sergeenko, and the minister of interior affairs, Irakli Garibashvili, a close ally of Mr. Ivanishvili’s.

Maia Goksadze-Osmanagoglu, 33, who works for a cellphone company, said she voted for Mr. Bakradze because she wanted the president and prime minister to be members of different parties. “I want them to be under constant scrutiny,” she said, “because we know when it is only about one opinion, it leads to bad consequences.”
687 2013-10-28 The winners of the Cavendish Open Pairs in Monaco last week were Rossen Gunev and Ivan Nanev of Bulgaria. In the auction, they went for 14,000 euros ($19,300), and the purchasers received 185,000 euros ($255,400) in return: a 13-for-1 increase. Almost as good was the payoff for the second-place pair of Krzysztof Martens and Dominic Filipowicz of Poland: 110,000 euros ($152,000) for 10,000 ($13,800) paid. Third place was not nearly so profitable. To buy Tor Helness and Geir Helgemo of Monaco cost 52,000 euros ($72,000) and brought in 75,000 euros ($103,500).

The winners did well in the diagramed deal from the last day. Gunev (South) opened one diamond because one club would have promised at least 16 points. It is now surprising that Andrei Gromov from Russia (West) did not overcall two clubs, so that he could have bid his spades on the next round. Nanev (North) then had the ideal bid for his hand: four diamonds showing a long (at least 5-5) red two-suiter. South converted to four hearts, and West was frozen out.

West led the spade king. Declarer won with his ace, drew trumps ending on the board and called for the diamond jack. When East played low, South went up with his ace and returned the queen. He then claimed an overtrick, conceding one diamond and one club.

Plus 450 was scored by international match points with the other five results and gained 37 imps.

Two of the pairs representing Monaco faced each other on this board. Helgemo (South) opened one club, Claudio Nunes (West) overcalled one spade, and Helness (North) made a negative double. This allowed Fulvio Fantoni (East) to raise to two spades. South passed, West jumped to four spades, North doubled again and everyone passed.

This contract could have been taken down two, minus 500, but after cashing his two top hearts, North needed to shift to a diamond. Instead, he led his singleton club. West won, drove out the spade ace and claimed. (If, at Trick 3, North had continued with a third heart, West would have ruffed and played a trump. South would have obtained down one by winning and leading the diamond ace to promote a second trump trick.)

Minus 790 cost Helgemo and Helness 71 imps on the board. Plus 500 would have given them 28 imps. That difference of 99 imps combined with the 24 imps Nanev and Gunev would have lost would have moved Helgemo and Helness into first place — assuming all other results had stayed the same, which would have been most unlikely.
688 2013-10-28 The State Department has never fully explained the discrepancy. Some of the gap, American officials have suggested, may reflect efforts by the Syrians to consolidate their chemical weapons stocks, as well as the haste in which the Assad government compiled the initial list.

But American officials have also suggested that Syria’s preliminary declaration was not complete and stressed the need for the Assad government to do better in the formal declaration.

“It is of the greatest importance that that document be complete,” a senior State Department official said this month.

The United States has a number of ways to make its concerns about Syrian compliance known, including by direct contact with Syrian officials. In the main, however, the Obama administration is counting on Russia, Syria’s main ally, to use its influence with Mr. Assad to persuade him to comply.

The initiative to eliminate Syria’s chemical weapons program came from the Russians, who were looking for a way to avert American military action against the Assad government. The White House had threatened to launch airstrikes after a chemical weapons attack killed hundreds of civilians in a suburb of Damascus on Aug. 21.

American and Russian officials hammered out the details of a disarmament plan in Geneva in September. Later that month, the United Nations Security Council adopted a resolution that required Syria to give up its arms.

That measure noted that if Syria failed to cooperate, the Security Council could take measures under Chapter 7 of the United Nations Charter, the strongest form of a Council resolution. Such steps could include economic sanctions or even military action. Before any action could be taken, the issue would have to return to the Security Council for further deliberations; Russia, like the other permanent members, holds a veto on the Council.

Syria’s declaration arrived as the chemical weapons agency, which is based in The Hague, said its inspectors had visited 19 of the 23 chemical weapons sites that Syria initially listed and had completed the destruction of equipment for mixing chemical agents and loading weapons at the sites.

Michael Luhan, a spokesman for the agency, told reporters last week that by Thursday, Syria would “no longer have the capability to produce any more chemical weapons, and it will no longer have any working equipment to mix and to fill chemical weapons agent into munitions.”

Patricia Lewis, the research director for international security at Chatham House in London, said in a telephone interview that “the priority for the inspectors was to prevent another mass attack” using chemical weapons.

“They have clearly achieved a large proportion of what they needed to do in that respect,” she added.

The goal of eliminating Syria’s chemical weapons arsenal and capabilities by mid-2014, however, remains a formidable one.

With inspectors nearly completing the first round, attention is shifting to the task of destroying an arsenal estimated to include 1,000 tons of precursor chemicals and nerve agents.

The United States has proposed shipping part of Syria’s chemical stocks for destruction to other countries and has approached a number of governments.

The complexity of such arrangements became apparent last week, when Norway said it had turned down an American request that it participate, citing “time constraints and external factors, such as capacities, regulatory requirements.”

Norway’s foreign minister, Boerge Brende, said the country lacked the necessary equipment and the mid-2014 deadline was too tight.
689 2013-10-29 REICHMANN--Paul.We mourn the loss of a friend and mentor who shared our vision in the 1980's to build a formidable and beautiful traditional Jewish Living Center at one of our nation's premiere secular universities. The Senior Alumni of The Center...
690 2013-10-29 The company said a tally of stolen usernames and passwords now tops 38 million records....
691 2013-10-29 A Parade Is Back From the Financial Dead
692 2013-10-29 The singer-songwriter’s latest album, which includes a track recorded with the actress Karen Black before her death, is a rebuke against the very concept of an album....
693 2013-10-29 Bet you didn’t realize how many films she has appeared in....
694 2013-10-29 The actions taken on Columbus Day 2008 stabilized the financial system but reverberate today, an economist writes....
695 2013-10-29 Why rich people like wine. How busy owners make it all work. And Warby Parker spins off a barber shop....
696 2013-10-29 The bank is the latest lender to settle charges related to the manipulation of the benchmark interest rate. The chief executive also resigned....
697 2013-10-29 The attention and money Pirate3D, a small but ambitious maker of three-dimensional printers, attracted on Kickstarter reveals an industry with lots of players and business plans....
698 2013-10-29 While Google offers some solutions, one owner said, she sees drawbacks: “Google keeps changing things and their privacy stuff really concerns me.”...
699 2013-10-29 The company said its revenue rose, and it sold 33.8 million iPhones, up from 26.9 million iPhones in the same quarter last year, but sales of other products fell or went unchanged....
700 2013-10-29 That is consistent with the disarmament approach favored by American officials, who believe that it would be the most efficient way to eliminate Syria’s chemical arsenal by mid-2014 under a plan endorsed last month by the United Nations Security Council.

Just where the destruction of precursor chemicals will take place is not clear. Norway rejected an American request that mobile American destruction equipment be moved there to help destroy Syria’s chemical arsenal. But the State Department official expressed confidence that other nations would agree to serve as destruction sites.

The United States is not among the possible destructions sites. Syrian officials have made it clear that they do not want to hand over their chemical arsenal to the United States, the official said.

He said he was encouraged by the progress in destroying mixing and filling equipment. A more formidable challenge is the destruction of bombs and warheads that are already filled with chemical agents. Russian experts are expected to assist in this task, which would be carried out in Syria.

Syria’s declaration of its chemical arsenal, which was submitted last week, is 714 pages long, according to a European diplomat.

A central question is whether Syria has given complete details of its program and an arsenal estimated to include 1,000 tons of chemicals and nerve agents. Although Syria disclosed 23 sites, American officials said in September that they believed at least 45 sites were involved.

According to a European diplomat who has seen relevant documents, Syria has now reported the existence of 41 chemical weapons facilities at the 23 sites it disclosed, information that may help close the gap between Syria’s disclosure and the figure initially stated by American officials.

It is also possible that Syria’s efforts to consolidate its arsenal may account for the discrepancy. But American officials have not yet concluded that Syria has declared all of its sites where chemical weapons are developed, stored and tested.

The executive council of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons is likely to discuss Syria’s declaration early next week and is expected to give its decision on the Syrian plan by mid-November. The sites where Syria’s precursor chemicals are to be destroyed are to be identified by that time.

The two sites the inspectors have not visited are in “contested areas where you need some kind of cease-fire or guarantees for the safety of the inspectors,” Michael Luhan, the agency’s spokesman, said in a telephone interview. It is not clear whether opposition groups control either of the two sites or the territory that inspectors would have to travel through to reach them.

Responsibility for the inspectors’ security, and therefore for negotiating access to sites, lies with the United Nations. Efforts to “ensure the conditions necessary for safe access to those sites will continue,” the agency’s statement said.
701 2013-10-29 Ike Skelton, a Democratic congressman who was ousted in the Republican sweep of 2010 after serving his Missouri district for more than 30 years, died on Monday in Arlington, Va. He was 81.

His death was confirmed by the law firm Husch Blackwell, where Mr. Skelton was a partner. He died at Virginia Hospital Center after a brief illness, according to a statement from his family.

Mr. Skelton, who was first elected to the House in 1976, was known as an expert on national defense and served as the chairman of House Armed Services Committee from 2007 until leaving office.

He was re-elected time and time again in a deeply conservative district that stretches from the Kansas City suburbs to the Ozarks, and he had a long record of supporting two local military institutions: Fort Leonard Wood and Whiteman Air Force Base, which he secured as the base for the nation’s fleet of B-2 bombers.

“He led an exemplary life of honor, courage and public service,” Maurice Watson, the chairman of Husch Blackwell, said Monday in a statement. “His commitment to our country, the state of Missouri and the men and women who serve our nation in the armed services was unsurpassed.”

Mr. Skelton was a social conservative who supported gun rights, opposed abortion rights and voted against President Obama’s health care law. Before his defeat, he had not received less than 60 percent of the vote since 1982.
702 2013-10-29 The autobiography of the pop star Morrissey, which has become a quick sensation in Britain, has found an American publisher. G.P. Putnam’s Sons, an imprint of Penguin Random House, acquired the memoir, two people involved in the negotiations said on Monday.

Several publishers were vying for the rights to release the book, which has already been reviewed in the United States after its publication as a 457-page Penguin Classic in Britain. Writing in The New York Times, Ben Ratliff said that the book, titled “Autobiography,” is “as sharp as it is tedious, both empathetic and pointlessly cruel,” adding that Morrissey, the former singer for The Smiths, is “a pop star of unusual writing talent.”

The book is expected to be published quickly to take advantage of the holiday book-buying season. Since "Autobiography" was released in Britain two weeks ago, it jumped to the No. 1 spot on Amazon.co.uk. Fans in the United States who were unable to buy copies from American booksellers have ordered them from online merchants in Britain at inflated prices. A spokeswoman for Putnam declined to comment.
703 2013-10-29 It has hampered the authority’s ability to insure itself, leading its chief financial officer to estimate in July that the agency had secured half the coverage, with two and a half times the premium, compared with a year earlier.

It made a star of the former chairman, Joseph J. Lhota, who parlayed acclaim for the rapid return of subway service after the storm into a run for New York mayor, leaving the authority without a permanent leader from January until June, when Mr. Prendergast was confirmed.

It stalled, and by some accounts reshaped, negotiations with the city’s largest transit workers’ union, which has operated without a new contract for nearly two years.

And on a 109-year-old system, where many pieces were approaching the end of their useful lives without the nudge from saltwater corrosion, and repair-related closings were already more rule than exception, latent damage and unpredictable failures have made tunnel inspections a near-impossible chore. The new maxim: Even if something looks as if it works, it might not.

“Would we all love to be in a different place?” said Joseph Leader, the senior vice president for subways at New York City Transit. “Absolutely. Like ‘I Dream of Jeannie’ — snapping our fingertips.”

Those charged with maintaining and upgrading the system have been confronted with a simple math problem: There are only so many hours in the day when shutdowns will not affect a wide swath of passengers, particularly in an age of booming off-peak ridership; likewise, there are only so many lines that can be repaired at one time without hamstringing the system.

The most extensive repairs are under way in the Montague tube, which carries the R train between Manhattan and Brooklyn but was closed in August after experiencing a more than 100-fold increase in the number of passengers delayed. It is expected to remain shuttered until next fall. Much of the G line has also seen several shutdowns on weekends. These are scheduled to continue next year.

As workers get a closer look at other underwater tunnels, surveys of duct banks, manholes and cable splices continue to uncover signs of wide-scale deterioration.

Fred Smith, chief engineer and senior vice president for capital program management at New York City Transit, said the agency would perform at least $3 billion in annual infrastructure work in 2014 and 2015.

“It’s not like it’s 5 or 10 percent,” he said of the increased load. “We’ve doubled the amount of work.”

Mr. Leader said that even riders whose stations remained relatively untouched should expect storm-related work to upset their commutes. As one line’s riders are displaced, he noted, other lines become more crowded. “It will impact their lives somehow,” he said.

Less clear is how the storm and its aftermath have affected another top long-term concern: a long-expired contract with Transport Workers Union Local 100 and a budget reliant on three consecutive years of “net-zero” increases in labor costs.

The onset of the storm, and Mr. Lhota’s departure, initially delayed negotiations. John Samuelsen, the group’s president, said workers had “every reason right now to revisit the initial wage demands” given the workers’ widely applauded feats in restoring service after the storm.

Mr. Prendergast said that “we do need to acknowledge” the workers’ efforts, but added:

“The real question is, what is that acknowledgment? What is it worth quantifiably and qualifiably?”

One bit of good news, transit planners say, is that the authority — rarely seen as avant-garde — has proved at times quite resourceful since the storm, turning repeatedly in recent months to ideas that might have once seemed absurd.

After its station at South Ferry, the last stop on the No. 1 train, sustained $600 million in damage, the authority hatched a plan that had never been tried in its history: refurbishing an old station at the same location, which had been decommissioned in 2009, and bringing it back to life in April.

In another agency first, days after the chief financial officer, Robert E. Foran, outlined the rising insurance costs to the authority’s board, Mr. Prendergast announced that the agency had secured $200 million of insurance protection by offering “catastrophe bonds.” Investors will lose money on the notes if storm surges exceed established thresholds, comparable to those seen during Hurricane Sandy, at any point before August 2016. The authority said it was the first catastrophe bond issued anywhere to protect exclusively against storm surge.

While any response to a storm in the coming months would most likely resemble last year’s — with low-tech remedies like sandbags in starring roles — Mr. Prendergast has said that potential longer-term “space-age solutions” included a scheme to secure tunnels with inflatable plugs.

But even as precious dollars have been devoted to hardening the system, some transit officials hope the expensive additions are never tested.

“I hope it’s not a 1-in-10-year phenomenon,” said Andrew Albert, a member of the authority’s board. “I don’t know if we’re ready for that.”
704 2013-10-29 Citigroup’s lobbyists redrafted a derivatives trading bill in the House, striking out certain phrases and inserting others, according to documents reviewed by The New York Times.
705 2013-10-29 He and his friend Bronislaw Geremek, a historian, persuaded 64 leading intellectuals, scholars, scientists and cultural figures to sign a petition that read in part: “In this struggle the place of the entire progressive intelligentsia is at their side. That is the Polish tradition, and that is the imperative of the hour.”

Mr. Walesa thanked Mr. Mazowiecki and told him that he had a continued need for help from intellectuals in addressing government officials. Mr. Mazowiecki helped write the historic Aug. 31 agreement that ended the strike and established Solidarity by guaranteeing workers’ rights to form independent trade unions with the right to strike.

The Communist government nonetheless felt threatened by Solidarity’s mounting influence, and declared martial law on Dec. 13, 1981, making Solidarity and other pro-democracy groups illegal. As tanks rolled through Warsaw, Mr. Mazowiecki was arrested and imprisoned for more than a year. After his release, he was again one of Mr. Walesa’s closest advisers.

The Polish economy worsened, and in 1988 Mr. Walesa and Mr. Mazowiecki coordinated a strike at the Gdansk shipyard. That strike brought no concessions. But a second, bigger strike brought the Communists to the negotiating table.

The Polish primate, Cardinal Jozef Glemp, appointed Mr. Mazowiecki a mediator, and he arranged the series of talks between the Communists and Solidarity that led to plans for quasi-free parliamentary elections in which a newly legal Solidarity would be allowed to participate.

In the June 1989 vote, Solidarity won overwhelmingly in the districts it was allowed to contest and, after parliamentary maneuvering with minor parties, was able to form a government. Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski, head of the Communist government, asked Mr. Walesa for three candidates, of which he would select one as a Solidarity prime minister. He chose Mr. Mazowiecki. Many believed the Vatican influenced his choice, given Mr. Mazowiecki’s role as an influential editor of Catholic weeklies and monthlies that promoted the social gospel underlying Solidarity’s ideology.

Mr. Mazowiecki’s V-for-victory sign to the chamber on appointment became the symbol of Poland’s triumph over Communism.

The Communists retained control of the armed services, the police and the secret service, and Mr. Mazowiecki had to pledge to keep Poland in the Warsaw Pact, Moscow’s military alliance. Still, he said in 2004, “I had this very strong conviction that we will make it, that we will be able to build the foundations for a democratic state.”

He promised no “witch hunts” against the old government, saying it was “right and wise” to offer democracy to all Poles. When asked if he would be a Catholic prime minister or a prime minister of Solidarity, he replied: “Is there any contradiction between the two? I would like to reconcile the two.”

At first, Mr. Mazowiecki told an interviewer, he was “terrified.” With Poland facing staggering foreign debt, hyperinflation and a bankrupt treasury, he had reason to be. He had no choice but to accept harsh, unpopular conditions — including a wage freeze and an end to consumer subsidies — to secure a $700 million loan from the International Monetary Fund.

With no economic experience and little charisma, he was defeated when he ran for president in 1990. Mr. Walesa was elected.

Tadeusz Mazowiecki was born on April 18, 1927, in the city of Plock, in central Poland. His brother died in a Nazi concentration camp in World War II.

Mr. Mazowiecki studied law at the University of Warsaw but did not graduate. In 1953 he began editing a Catholic weekly, but was eventually fired because of his opposition to the Communist government. He started an organization of Catholic intellectuals and a new Catholic monthly.

In 1961 he was elected to the Polish Parliament, where he led the opposition to the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968 and unsuccessfully pushed for an investigation of the police massacre of striking Gdansk shipyard workers in 1971. As a result, he was barred from running for re-election in 1972. He then devoted himself to building alliances between the intelligentsia of the left and the fledgling Polish labor movement.

Mr. Mazowiecki, a tall, gaunt man with large, sad eyes, went on to hold various official and unofficial posts in Poland’s government. In 1992 he was appointed envoy of the United Nations to war-torn Bosnia. He resigned in 1995 over what he regarded as the international community’s insufficient response to atrocities there.

He was married twice; both wives died. He had three sons, Wojciech, Adam and Michal.
706 2013-10-29 WASHINGTON — The United States military carried out a missile strike against a top Shabab operative in Somalia on Monday, according to Defense Department officials, three weeks after a Navy SEAL raid in another part of the country failed to capture a senior leader of the Somali Islamic militant group.

The American strike is the latest evidence that the Obama administration has decided to escalate operations against the Shabab in the aftermath of the bloody siege at a shopping mall in Nairobi, Kenya, last month in which more than 60 men, women and children were killed. A White House spokeswoman declined to comment on the strike, referring questions to the Pentagon.

Preliminary evidence collected by the military indicated that the attack killed its intended target, Ibrahim Ali, an explosives specialist for the Shabab known for his skill in building and using homemade bombs and suicide vests, a Defense Department official said.

“He’s been identified as someone we’ve been tracking for a long time,” said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the mission was conducted by the military’s secretive Joint Special Operations Command.

Residents in the Somali town of Jilib reported that a huge explosion hit a car carrying Shabab commanders traveling to Baraawe, a coastal town that is one of the group’s strongholds. Navy SEALs staged an unsuccessful raid in Baraawe this month that had targeted a Kenyan of Somali origin known as Abdikadir Mohamed Abdikadir, who uses the nom de guerre Ikrimah and is considered one of the Shabab’s top planners for attacks outside Somalia.
707 2013-10-29 A year ago Tuesday evening, Hurricane Sandy slammed into the Eastern Seaboard, destroying lives and homes and entire neighborhoods. On the first anniversary of the storm, politicians are busily touting what they’ve done since, while, at the same time, assiduously dodging legitimate complaints from people who are still suffering.

The delays have been excruciating for many. Although the federal government approved almost $60 billion in aid for the region, thousands of homeowners have seen barely a trickle. In New Jersey, more than 26,000 people are still out of their homes a year later, and, in New York City, at least 20,000 households still need help rebuilding and returning to functioning homes.

On the plus side, and despite all the unfinished business, Sandy has forced people to reimagine the future. Because the storm was just a taste of what’s coming as the earth’s temperatures rise and oceans expand into human territory, many politicians and private citizens have realized the folly of rebuilding what was there before.

The federal flood insurance program, for instance, has been re-evaluated and revised. The government is mapping out new flood-prone areas and reducing subsidies for second homes or other properties in areas that have been flooded repeatedly. Mayor Michael Bloomberg of New York City has argued that flood insurance for homeowners of modest means should not skyrocket to the point where it becomes unaffordable, but, in the long run, it makes sense to demand that insured properties be made more resilient.

Gov. Andrew Cuomo of New York, meanwhile, has offered a promising program to buy out damaged or destroyed homes. But it is proceeding slowly. Of more than 500 properties in a particularly devastated section of Staten Island — mostly the Oakwood Beach area — there are fewer than a dozen buyouts so far. Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey has offered $300 million in buyouts.

Other sensible proposals would reinforce the shoreline with dunes and wetlands, oyster beds and rock berns — all designed to allow nature to help absorb the shock of a future Sandy. And we can be fairly certain that another one will occur.
708 2013-10-29 Mr. Orr also testified on Monday and gave a detailed description of Detroit’s mounting debts, substandard city services and lack of options for a turnaround other than bankruptcy.

But it is Mr. Snyder who is widely considered responsible for forcing the state’s largest city into the biggest municipal bankruptcy filing in American history.

During his nearly three hours on the stand, Mr. Snyder said he considered Detroit’s financial free fall among the most pressing problems he inherited when he took office in 2011.

“There are not many problems of this magnitude in our country,” he said.

According to its Chapter 9 filing, Detroit is an estimated $18 billion in debt, including billions of dollars in obligations to its 23,000 retirees. The city is also running a budget deficit of almost $1 million per day, and is unable to provide basic levels of police and fire protection for its 700,000 residents.

Mr. Snyder said he took several measures to address the city’s troubles over the past two years, including negotiating an agreement with its mayor, Dave Bing, under which the city would cut some of its losses and streamline operations in return for $137 million to pay its bills.

But the governor said the city’s failure to honor the agreement led him to declare a financial emergency under state law. He then appointed Mr. Orr to the powerful post of emergency manager, giving him nearly unilateral control of the city’s finances and operations.

Still, Mr. Snyder said he had no preconceived plan to steer Detroit into bankruptcy, and acted only after Mr. Orr recommended that the city file for Chapter 9 in mid-July. “It was a tremendously difficult decision to make, but the right one,” he said.

Lawyers for unions and retirees challenged Mr. Snyder on whether Mr. Orr had made good-faith attempts to negotiate concessions on pensions before recommending bankruptcy.

Peter DeChiara, a lawyer for some city workers, bristled when Mr. Snyder’s lawyer objected to questioning the governor on the impact of bankruptcy on retirees receiving pensions averaging about $18,000 a year.

“To say that the impact of these cuts on retirees is irrelevant is incorrect,” he said.

For his part, Mr. Snyder said he believed unions and retirees had an opportunity to bargain with Mr. Orr after he made a blanket proposal to reduce pensions at a meeting with creditors in June.

The governor avoided answering specific questions about what level of cuts might be sought during bankruptcy proceedings. “Any plan that comes out of this has to be a legal plan,” he said.

Union lawyers argue that public-employee pensions are expressly protected under the Michigan Constitution.

The issue will be decided by Judge Steven Rhodes as part of the trial. The city also has to meet several specific benchmarks for eligibility, including proving that it is technically insolvent and that it pursued good-faith negotiations with creditors before the filing.

The Republican governor’s appearance on the witness stand added drama to the case, and galvanized street protesters to call for Mr. Snyder’s defeat when he faces re-election next year.

While Mr. Snyder was characteristically soft-spoken in court, Mr. Orr was more demonstrative during his testimony. A veteran bankruptcy lawyer, Mr. Orr said he was “shocked” at the state of the city’s finances and services when he took over as emergency manager.

“I knew things were bad, but it was somewhat shocking just how dire it was,” he said.

He described a city so destitute that payroll checks were bouncing, and frightened children armed themselves with rocks and sticks to fight off assaults on their way to school. He said some of Detroit’s electric grids could not be fixed because conditions were too dangerous for repair crews.

Mr. Orr sparred with union lawyers who accused him of seeking concessions under the threat of bankruptcy. He also said he welcomed counterproposals from the unions about cost savings, but did not receive any after the initial creditors meeting.

At the end of his testimony, Mr. Orr offered a blunt opinion of what would happen to Detroit if Judge Rhodes rejected the city’s Chapter 9 filing.

“To put this city back to the status quo is clearly unacceptable,” he said. “If we do not go through Chapter 9 this city will continue to fail.”

The trial is expected to last several more days, with union leaders likely to testify that they had little opportunity to negotiate with Mr. Orr before the bankruptcy filing.

One legal expert said a decision by Judge Rhodes to reject the Chapter 9 filing would likely prompt an appeal. But even a final rejection would not necessarily end the protracted struggle over how to fix Detroit.

“The state’s emergency manager law for managing the city’s finances would still be the governing authority if that decision stands,” said Keith Mason of the law firm McKenna Long and Aldridge. “More negotiations and other alternatives would then be able to be explored.”
709 2013-10-29 Merck reported on Monday that its third-quarter profit plunged 35 percent because of competition from generic drugs, lower sales of its top-selling medicine, and restructuring and acquisition charges.

The results still beat Wall Street’s profit expectations, but the drug maker sharply lowered its forecast for the full year.

Generic competition continues to weigh on Merck’s asthma and allergy pill, Singulair, cutting sales 53 percent, to $280 million. The drug brought in $5.5 billion each year until its patent expired in August 2012 and cheap copycat versions flooded the market.

Merck had previously weathered generic competition to its blockbusters, usually managing to keep total sales about the same level as before big patent expirations.

“This year, we were not able to do that,” the company’s chief executive, Kenneth C. Frazier, said on Monday.
710 2013-10-29 Federal prosecutors in Texas have reached a civil settlement with Infosys, an Indian outsourcing company, over charges that it misused temporary visas to bring Indian technology workers to the United States, justice officials said. In an investigation started in February 2011, prosecutors have examined whether Infosys systematically used short-term visitor visas to bring software programmers and technology engineers from India to work in American companies, instead of more costly H-1B visas, deceiving immigration authorities and undercutting wages for American workers.  Infosys has said it set aside $35 million for the settlement, which will be announced on Wednesday.
711 2013-10-29 The company said its revenue rose, and that it sold 33.8 million iPhones, up from 26.9 million iPhones in the same quarter last year....
712 2013-10-29 During four days in Mexico City last summer, Danny Bowien and his chefs, Angela Dimayuga and Zach Swemle, ate in 35 restaurants. Call it homework for Mission Cantina, the Mexican restaurant they’re opening in three weeks on the Lower East Side.

“We’re really excited about what we’ll be doing here,” Mr. Bowien said. “It will be our take on Mexican food. It’s not going to be a taqueria, even though there will be tacos on the menu because we love tacos.”

They will make their own Oaxacan-style cheese. And they will nixtamalize their own corn sourced from Anson Mills in South Carolina for tortillas and other dishes. “There’s nothing like a tortilla made from fresh masa,” he said.

The restaurant, which will be down the street from Mr. Bowien’s Mission Chinese Food, will have a rotisserie for chicken stuffed with rice, and pork to fill tacos al pastor.

The pork drippings will flavor onions sitting beneath the spit, which will be added to the tacos. Larger plates will include steamed lamb ribs on a bed of masa with pecan-coffee mole, all wrapped in a banana leaf.

There will be Mexican beers on tap, and reservations will be accepted when it opens Nov. 20. As at his other restaurants, a charitable contribution will be made from a percentage of the price of some dishes: 172 Orchard Street (Stanton Street), no phone or website yet.
713 2013-10-29 Netflix continues to sweep up high-profile television shows for its online subscription service, completing a deal Monday for “Dexter,” which has been the biggest hit series so far for the Showtime network.

The deal was announced by Netflix and the CBS Corporation, which owns Showtime. Terms were not disclosed, though one executive from the CBS side of the deal described it as involving “a very nice piece of money.”

For Netflix, the acquisition has special value because “Dexter” has mainly been available only to Showtime’s subscribers. (Some early episodes had brief exposure on the CBS network in the past, and in the earlier days of Netflix, when it had fewer subscribers, episodes of “Dexter” and the Showtime show “Californication” were available to stream. That earlier deal ended in summer 2011.)

Even under the new deal, the series will still be available to Showtime subscribers: Netflix will not have exclusive rights to “Dexter.” Showtime subscribers will still be able to see the show on the network’s on-demand platform. It will also still be available on iTunes.

In the future, CBS intends to try to sell the series in syndication to a basic cable network and to broadcast television station.

Netflix will gain access to “Dexter” very soon: The drama’s first four seasons will begin to be available on Thursday and the last four seasons will turn up on the service beginning in January.
714 2013-10-29 So far, there do not seem to be many rabble-rousers among the women with breast cancer in Uganda. At Mulago Hospital in Kampala, I saw a long corridor packed with meek, desperate women hoping to see a doctor at a weekly clinic for breast lumps. They were herded in and out like sheep. The clinic was held only on Wednesdays, even though so many women regularly showed up that dozens were turned away week after week and told to come back another time. There was no outrage, just an air of fear and resignation.

Doctors acknowledged that the clinic was poorly run and needed to be open more than once a week. But nobody was doing anything about it.

There’s a lot of hand-wringing in Uganda about the fact that most breast cancer here is diagnosed late, after it has begun to spread, when there is little or no chance of curing it. Much of the problem is chalked up to women’s failure to see a doctor soon enough, because of ignorance, shame or being too poor to afford treatment or even bus fare to the clinic.

But not all the blame belongs with the patients. The clinic at Mulago is daunting and demoralizing, emblematic of a deeper problem: when women do seek help, Uganda’s sluggish, inefficient health system throws up one obstacle after another — endless waits, drug shortages, lost lab tests, unexpected fees.

The resulting delays cost lives. The survival rates for women with breast cancer in poor countries like Uganda are far lower than those in developed countries, according to the World Health Organization.

What if Ugandan women with breast cancer were to organize, confront hospital administrators, picket the ministry of health? Granted, this is a poor country, and all the moxie in the world will not pay for what it really needs most: more doctors and nurses, hospital beds, pathology labs, chemotherapy drugs and radiation machines. But some targeted indignation might be a start.

Women here do seem to be finding their voices. Two support groups have formed, and women are trying to help one another, in part by sharing information to help others avoid the pitfalls they encountered. Members of the groups say that educated women who are willing to stand up for themselves and do battle with the system are more likely to survive than those who are passive and overwhelmed. Sometimes the lessons learned involve patients realizing that their lives were jeopardized by a medical system they had trusted.

The Rev. Grace Candiru, 50, of the Church of Uganda, discovered a swelling in her armpit in November 2010. She had the lump removed at a hospital in her hometown, Arua, in northern Uganda, and was told that a biopsy specimen had been sent to Mulago Hospital. But she never received the results and did not pursue them, she said, because she thought no news was good news, and because no one had told her that her symptoms could mean cancer.

“If they would have told me, I would have acted,” Ms. Candiru said. “I went timely to them. They did not have concern for my life.”

By early 2012, new lumps were growing in her armpit and breast. Doctors in Arua sent her to Mulago Hospital in December, and only then did she learn that she had cancer — and that her original biopsy specimen had been lost.

She had a mastectomy in February, and began chemotherapy. She will need radiation as well. Deeply troubled that two years were lost while the cancer advanced, she said she wanted to try to educate other women in Arua.

“We are in darkness there,” she said. “People are not counseled.”

She said she hoped to set up a program to reach women at the places where people in Uganda are most likely to gather: churches, conventions and funerals.

In addition, she said: “We use radio to spread the gospel. We can use it for this, too.”

Josephine Bamuwamye, 63, a retired midwife, was treated for breast cancer 13 years ago in Kenya, where she was working. She had surgery, radiation and chemotherapy, and was told to take tamoxifen, which can sharply reduce the risk of cancer recurrence by blocking the effects of the hormone estrogen. About 85 percent of breast cancers are sensitive to estrogen, and a test can determine whether a woman’s tumor is one of those. But in Africa, the test is not always done, because it is not available or is too expensive. Instead, women are simply given tamoxifen, figuring that it will help most of them.

In a small number of women, the drug can cause cancer of the uterus, but the risk is generally considered acceptable because the drug works so well against breast cancer. Ms. Bamuwamye was one of the unlucky few: after two years of tamoxifen, uterine cancer developed, and she had to have a hysterectomy.

She found out only then that her breast cancer was not even sensitive to estrogen and that her doctor knew it, but had prescribed the drug anyway. She had a second cancer, almost certainly caused by a drug that she had not needed in the first place.

She considers herself lucky to be alive. Despite the missteps in her own treatment, she volunteers at the cancer institute, where one of her challenges is to persuade other women with breast cancer to start chemotherapy and stick with it.

“I tell them their hair and their strength will come back,” she said. “I was very sick, but now I’m O.K.”
715 2013-10-29 GENEVA — Israel will participate in a review of its human rights record at the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva on Tuesday, a decision announced after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu ended the country’s 18-month boycott of the council.

Israel’s ambassador in Geneva, Eviatar Manor, telephoned the president of the Human Rights Council to convey the decision on Sunday evening, less than 48 hours before the scheduled review, United Nations officials said.

Israel had been under mounting diplomatic pressure to participate, to avoid setting a precedent that could undermine the review process.

Israel announced in March 2012 that it was disengaging from the Human Rights Council after members voted to appoint a fact-finding mission to investigate Israel’s West Bank settlements. Israel did not appear for the session in January when it was originally due to present its report as part of the Council’s Universal Periodic Review process, under which all states submit to a review of their human rights record.
716 2013-10-29 2. Add salt to taste and the remaining garlic. A handful at a time, stir in the chard. As the greens wilt, stir in another handful, until all the greens have been added. Bring back to a simmer, cover and simmer over low heat for 15 to 20 minutes, or until the greens and beans are tender.

3. Stir in the remaining tablespoon of olive oil and the dill or cilantro, cover and continue to simmer for another 5 minutes. Add salt and freshly ground pepper to taste.

4. Spoon farro or bulgur into bowls or onto plates. Top with the beans. Top the beans with diced red pepper and crumbled feta, and serve.

Advance preparation: The beans will keep for 3 or 4 days in the refrigerator, with or without the greens added.

Nutritional information per serving: 455 calories; 8 grams fat; 2 grams saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 4 grams monounsaturated fat; 8 milligrams cholesterol; 73 grams carbohydrates; 18 grams dietary fiber; 297 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 24 grams protein

Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”
717 2013-10-29 The stock market showed little change on Monday as expectations were high that the Federal Reserve would decide to keep its stimulus in place when it meets this week.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index moved barely higher to another nominal record close. But the Dow Jones industrial average and the Nasdaq composite index slipped slightly amid signs that the recent run-up in the stock market was losing momentum.

The S.& P. 500 has risen 6.4 percent since Oct. 8, when it hit a low point during the government’s partial shutdown and the debate over raising the debt ceiling. The benchmark index is up 23.6 percent for the year.

Relief over the end of the political impasse and investor expectations that the Fed will keep stimulus measures in place for at least several months because of the 16-day shutdown have propped up prices. Fed policy makers will meet on Tuesday and Wednesday.

“I would like to say it’s all about people waiting for the Fed, but I don’t know what they’re waiting for because I don’t expect any change in Fed policy this week, given the fact they pointed out repeatedly the fiscal issues they’re cognizant of,” said Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott in Philadelphia.
718 2013-10-29 I’d just come back from traveling through Israel and the Palestinian territory it occupies. In that part of the world, one approaches immigration kiosks prepared for a lengthy wait, inspections and harassing questions (this is true even with Israeli citizenship, which I also hold). The very choice of which travel document to present is considered a political act. The languages I spoke (or didn’t speak), my religion and line of work were all variables that could extend the time I spent at the border crossing.

But back in the States, it didn’t matter to the man at the kiosk that I had a funny-sounding name. It didn’t matter what my religion or ethnicity was. It didn’t matter what my political opinions were. In a nation where citizenship is valued and discrimination is shunned, the re-entry process took only seconds. I was reminded of the tremendous value of my U.S. citizenship and the navy blue booklet I held in my hand.

I just wish Barbara Boxer would appreciate the value of U.S. citizenship as well. The senator is spearheading legislation that would dangerously devalue it.

The U.S.-Israel Strategic Partnership Act, backed by the pro-Israel lobbying group, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, or Aipac, was introduced by Ms. Boxer and has 53 co-sponsors in the Senate. It legislates, for the first time, the inclusion of Israel in the U.S. visa-waiver program. This means that Israelis can enter the United States without a visa.

Israel has long sought this prized designation but has always faced resistance from the State Department because the program requires reciprocity. Israel has been known to routinely deny entry to American citizens, often Arabs or Muslims or others sympathetic to the Palestinian cause, under the usually bogus pretext of “security concerns.”

This discriminatory treatment of U.S. citizens prompted several members of Congress to write to Israel’s ambassador expressing concern that Israeli border officials were “disproportionately singling out, detaining and denying entry to Arab and Muslim Americans,” and requesting all Americans be “treated equally at Israeli ports of entry.”

Sandra Tamari’s case is one example. The 42-year-old U.S. citizen of Palestinian descent traveled to Israel in May of 2012 for an interfaith conference. Upon entry, she was required to provide her Gmail password to Israeli interrogators, who insisted on searching her personal account. After refusing to comply with this and other intrusive requests, she was denied entry and deported.

Numerous similar cases of U.S. citizens being asked for their e-mail and Facebook passwords prior to deportation have been reported. The case of Nour Joudah is another example. She was teaching English in a West Bank high school on a valid, multiple-entry work visa issued by Israel. When she attempted to re-enter Israel after traveling to Jordan for Christmas break, she was denied entry and deported.

Senator Boxer’s legislation, versions of which might pass in both the House and Senate, would allow Israel an exemption to reciprocity. In other words, Israel would get to determine which American citizens it permits to enter.

As an Israeli citizen who is also a Palestinian, I know this problem all too well. I’ve witnessed firsthand the way Israel discriminates against its own non-Jewish citizens. I am routinely held up for questioning and inspection while watching Jewish Israelis zip by.

As an American citizen, I’m outraged that Senator Boxer and her colleagues are trying to pass a law that allows Israel to discriminate against U.S. citizens. All elected officials took an oath to defend the Constitution. By legalizing discrimination against U.S. citizens they will violate that oath in both word and spirit.

Even if the problematic language giving Israel an exception is removed from the bill, including Israel in the visa-waiver program at all means that Arab-and Muslim-Americans will have to rely on ill-equipped government agencies like the State Department to enforce reciprocity. And unfortunately, the State Department has been able to offer little assistance to U.S. citizens of Arab or Muslim origin who are denied entry to Israel, despite what our passports say about allowing Americans to “pass without delay or hindrance.” Instead, the U.S. government has regularly yielded to Israeli demands when it comes to the discriminatory treatment of Americans.

This is likely to continue. That means American citizens will continue to get turned away by Israel because of their ethnic background while the United States opens its doors to all Israelis.

This unequal treatment should not be permitted. Under no circumstances should the United States extend visa-waiver privileges to Israel, or any other state, unless it is willing to guarantee and demand equal treatment of its citizens and their protection from discrimination based on religion, ethnicity or national origin.

Yousef Munayyer is executive director of the Jerusalem Fund for Education and Community Development, a Palestinian advocacy group in Washington.
719 2013-10-30 GURIAN--Leah (Lil), on October 29, 2013 in her 92nd year. Beloved wife of the late Elias Gurian, adored and adoring mother of Stephen Gurian, Bonny and Marvin Rosen, Donald and Karen Gurian. Cherished grandmother of Alyson and Steven Justman, Mela...
720 2013-10-30 Robert J. Shiller, the Nobel-winning economist, and Vivek Wadhwa, vice president of innovation and research at Singularity University, spar at a conference debate....
721 2013-10-30 The action by the petroleum company OGX was the culmination of a decline that had been apparent for months....
722 2013-10-30 Ban the box laws do not “require” employers to hire people with criminal convictions....
723 2013-10-30 A judge dismissed a substantial portion of two lawsuits contending that the Metropolitan Museum of Art has no legal authority to charge a suggested admission fee....
724 2013-10-30 A proposal overcomes the obvious problems with orderly liquidation authority – but only by addressing the holding company....
725 2013-10-30 St. Ann’s Warehouse, which has long sought a permanent home, is to begin work on a new facility in the historic Tobacco Warehouse in Dumbo....
726 2013-10-30 The Deutsches Symphonie-Orchester Berlin is inviting D.J.’s to remix its recording of Dvorak’s “New World” Symphony....
727 2013-10-30 Continental Advisors and the Precedo Capital Group contend they were promised up to $278 million worth of Twitter shares in part to increase the company’s secondary market valuation....
728 2013-10-30 Why the tight-money agitation?...
729 2013-10-30 Retail sales fall. Redirecting food waste to the hungry. An entrepreneurship conference for those 50 and older....
730 2013-10-30 While Silicon Valley concentrates on wealthy nations, start-ups and venture capitalists in places like Singapore are addressing far more diverse markets....
731 2013-10-30 The accounting giant hopes to use the transaction to strengthen one of its faster-growing operations, but the combination could raise concerns about conflicts of interest....
732 2013-10-30 In the last of a three-part series, a business owner talks about how she can come up with the cash to stock her store....
733 2013-10-30 The country’s general prosecutor on Tuesday opened an investigation into Bassem Youssef, an Egyptian satirist, stemming from citizen complaints including that Mr. Youssef had insulted the military on his popular weekly television show, state news media reported. On Friday, the program returned to the air for the first time since the military ousted President Mohamed Morsi in July, in a test of the boundaries of free speech under the new military-backed government. The new complaints, which include broadcasting false statements and “portraying Egypt as a promiscuous woman,” have yet to result in any formal charges.
734 2013-10-30 Commercial satellite imagery taken a few weeks ago suggests that North Korea is upgrading its main launch facility with the possible intention of handling both larger and more mobile missiles, a Washington-based research institute that monitors the country said Tuesday. In a report posted on its website, 38 North, the U.S.-Korea Institute at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies said the new construction at the Sohae Satellite Launching Station in North Korea suggested it may become “the main, and perhaps sole, test facility in the future.” The report was the institute’s second in less than a week that utilized satellite imagery to suggest North Korea is proceeding with proliferation activities that have been banned by the United Nations Security Council, which has imposed severe sanctions on the country in response.
735 2013-10-30 Paul George scored 24 points, and Roy Hibbert had 16 rebounds and 7 blocks, leading the host Indiana Pacers to a 97-87 win over the Orlando Magic in the opening game of the N.B.A. season. Victor Oladipo, the No. 2 draft pick, had 12 points for the Magic.
736 2013-10-30 EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. — The multitude of positive traits the revamped Nets are supposed to possess — savvy and spirit and a high basketball I.Q. — will be undermined if their stars succumb to injury.

That is a caveat that can be applied to any team in any sport, but the concern feels outsize around the Nets, who legitimized their trophy ambitions over the summer by acquiring several veteran stars: Kevin Garnett and Paul Pierce and the capable substitutes Andrei Kirilenko and Jason Terry. The players’ rapport is expected to continue to develop. The Nets’ long-term health, then, seems like the only wild card as the team prepares to open its season Wednesday night against the Cleveland Cavaliers.

It was an apt metaphor from Kidd. The Nets are shrewd enough to know that this month’s results will be almost meaningless compared with next spring’s, and they are self-assured enough to say so. They seem unconcerned, then, that they are starting their title chase a tad hobbled.

“Really, it’s how you finish and how the playoffs go,” Deron Williams said. But, he added: “We want to get off to a good start. We want to start this thing off right.”

Kirilenko, 32, whose two-way skill and versatility make him the team’s most crucial bench player, was not expected to play Wednesday as he recovers from back spasms that sidelined him the previous two weeks.
737 2013-10-30 Played with impish humor by Mr. Turner (his razzle-dazzle solo is a musical highlight of the show), the Water Seller knocks on the doors of the miniature houses of Matt Saunders’s charmingly funky set, only to discover that, ahem, nobody’s much interested in offering hospitality. The only willing soul in town is the poor prostitute Shen Te, who is rewarded for her goodness with a thousand silver dollars.

Sudden prosperity brings nothing but misfortune upon the softhearted Shen Te, who soon finds her tobacco shop infested with more freeloaders than customers. Her unhappy but necessary solution: the invention of a male cousin, Shui Ta, who will sternly set things right by taking a ruthless attitude toward making the shop profitable.

To portray the shadow half of the central character, Mr. Mac dons a natty pinstriped suit, a bowler hat and a curlicued mustache that dangles comically from his nose like a charm on a bracelet. His arrivals to clean up the messes made by Shen Te’s charitable instincts are heralded by a thump on the drums from the house band, the Lisps. The music, written by César Alvarez and the band, blends classic American folk redolent of the Woody Guthrie era with more exotic influences. (The declamatory percussion could be a nod to Chinese opera.)

Simple moral fable though it may seem upon the surface, Brecht’s play grows more nuanced and complex as Shen Te tries to reconcile her two personas — or rather eliminate the spiritually pernicious one — and find some happiness in love, which turns out to be just as big a drain on the coffers as everyday good works.

Many of the play’s supporting characters are drawn as Hogarthian comic caricatures, and ferociously played as such. Lisa Kron, whose acclaimed musical “Fun Home” is playing in another theater at the Public, is flat-out hilarious in two roles, as Shen Te’s grasping, nasal-voiced landlady, and as the grasping, talon-nailed tiger mom of Yang Sun (Clifton Duncan), Shen Te’s fiancé. But even the comparatively noble characters — Shen Te, of course, but the Water Seller, too — cannot remain entirely uncorrupted by the brutal imperatives of their world.

When Mr. Mac’s bewildered Shen Te ultimately exposes the truth about her divided existence to the gods, she says, “Your original order, to be good while yet surviving, split me like lightning into two people.” As she mournfully adds, “Goodness to others and to myself could not both be achieved.”

In less inspired productions, such passages might come across like a sledgehammer to the forehead. But Ms. DeBessonet, Mr. Mac and their altogether excellent collaborators have created in this production a frame for Brecht’s philosophy that allows his admonitory ideas to make a soft landing. They sting, nonetheless, because Mr. Mac’s superlative performance imbues Shen Te with such unaffected humanity.

The laughter that ripples throughout this production — I still find myself smiling at Mr. Mac’s comical tussle with an inflatable chair — doesn’t obscure the sad truths at the play’s core. The final moments are piercing, as Shen Te is abandoned by the gods to continue fighting the proverbial good fight, and still doesn’t feel up to it. Gazing into the audience with a glitter of fear in her eyes that outshines the glitter on her eyelids, Shen Te softly cries out, “Help!” This moment is unforgettable, too, but it certainly doesn’t raise a smile.
738 2013-10-30 “There is indeed a specter haunting this appeal, and that is a specter of the mayoralty election,” he said.

Ultimately, the judges acknowledged, it would be up to the next mayor to decide how or if to pursue challenges to the court-ordered reforms. In fact, in just over two months city lawyers could find themselves defending positions they once aggressively fought, should Mr. de Blasio win. He has promised to pursue reforms like working with a court-appointed monitor to oversee changes to stop and frisk and requiring some patrol officers to wear cameras.

Celeste Koeleveld, a lawyer for the city, argued that city politics should not weigh on the judges’ decision. The litigation on stop-and-frisk tactics, she argued, has been having an adverse effect. She pointed to statistics showing that by midyear, the number of stops had declined by 50 percent, arguing that this suggested that officers were frightened about being punished.

“Police are now hesitant to use an important tool in proactive policing,” she said.

City officials have argued that police stops are at the heart of the significant declines in murders and major crimes in New York during the last decade. But in recent months, the Police Department has appeared to shift focus away from the policy. It has done so, in part, by aggressively policing gangs online and on the streets.

Crime continues to fall, seemingly confounding the city’s arguments about the importance of stop-and-frisk tactics. As of Oct. 20, the murder rate was down more than 24 percent compared with the same period last year. And 2012 had the lowest murder rate in at least half a century.

Judge Cabranes suggested that even the city’s lawyers were awaiting election results. He said the city had “proceeded at a snail’s pace” in pursuing a stay.

“If you acted with real urgency, you could have been before the court asking for a stay a long time ago,” he said.

As it stands, a decision on the appeal might not come until next year — after the new mayor takes office.
739 2013-10-30 WASHINGTON — Home prices rose in August from a year earlier at the fastest pace since February 2006. But the price gains slowed in many cities from July, a sign that rising prices over the last year may have peaked.

Other reports released on Tuesday showed that consumer confidence fell sharply this month as the federal government was partly shut down for 16 days, while retail sales dipped in September. And inflation at the wholesale level was negligible.

The Standard & Poor’s/Case-Shiller 20-city home price index rose 12.8 percent over the 12 months that ended in August. That compares with 12.4 percent in July from a year earlier. All 20 cities showed year-over-year gains.

But a measure of month-over-month prices for the 20 cities rose just 1.3 percent in August. That is down from a 1.8 percent month-over-month gain in July. And 16 of the 20 cities reported more modest price increases in August than in July.

Greater demand and a tighter supply of homes for sale have helped drive prices higher over the last year. But over the summer, mortgage rates rose from their record lows. Weak job growth is also discouraging potential home buyers.
740 2013-10-30 “If it is successfully filibustered, I think that the pressure on changing the rules would be almost insurmountable,” said Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont and chairman of the Judiciary Committee. Speaking to Ms. Millett’s qualifications, he said, “If we were dealing with logic and honesty and what’s best for the court, we’d have 100 votes.”

Ms. Millett needs 60 votes to overcome a filibuster, which would require her to win the support of five Republicans when the vote is held on Thursday. (That is the day Cory A. Booker, Democrat of New Jersey, will take his seat as the 55th member of the Senate majority.)

The Senate will take up another contentious nomination this week when it votes on whether to consider Representative Melvin Watt, Democrat of North Carolina, to lead the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. Republicans have vowed to filibuster him.

All but daring Democrats to follow through, Republicans insisted Ms. Millett’s nomination was not justifiable given the court’s workload, which they argue is too low to warrant another judge.

Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, a Judiciary Committee veteran who has written a bill that would shrink the court to 8 from 11, said simply of Democrats, “Let them carry out their threat.”

Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Senate Republican, said of the Millett nomination, “We intend to stop it.”

Mr. Cornyn accused Mr. Obama and Senate Democrats of trying to “pack the court” to their ideological liking. “The last thing we need to do at a time when money is tight and the national debt is at $17 trillion is to throw more money at unneeded judges,” he said.

Of the eight active judges on the court now, four were appointed by Republican presidents and four by Democrats.

Democrats have argued that it is any president’s right to fill vacancies on the court and that Republicans are hiding behind misleading arguments about the court’s workload so they can deny Mr. Obama his appointments.

The Grassley bill would eliminate one seat on the District of Columbia court altogether and shift two to other appeals courts across the country. Mr. Grassley and his supporters point to statistics showing that the court completes few cases per judge each year compared with other circuit courts.

But Democrats note that caseloads have not changed much since Republicans voted, without complaint, to approve President George W. Bush’s nominees.

This is the latest iteration of a partisan feud over Mr. Obama’s nominees to the District of Columbia appeals court. In June, he nominated Ms. Millett and two others — Cornelia T. L. Pillard, a law professor, and Robert L. Wilkins, a federal district judge.

The Judiciary Committee cleared Ms. Pillard, but on a party-line vote, given her background with the Clinton administration and the N.A.A.C.P. The panel will vote on Mr. Wilkins later this week.

Ms. Millett has worked in the solicitor general’s office in both Democratic and Republican administrations, a point Democrats have pressed.

“The administration went out of their way to pick a nominee that almost no one could object to,” said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. Describing Democrats’ debate on whether to push for a rules change, he added: “If the opposition was not to the person, but to just filling the position, that was where we would draw the line. And this is getting close to that.”
741 2013-10-30 Mr. de Blasio indicated that he would curtail the use of the program, saying, “We should not be giving tax breaks to build luxury condos, period.” He said that under Mayor Bloomberg, the city gave too many benefits to developers who did not need them. “We need to restrict tax incentives to projects that create housing that’s affordable to the average New Yorker,” he said, without specifying how he would go about doing that.
742 2013-10-30 LOS ANGELES — Despite suffering a 59 percent drop in quarterly profit after the disappointing box-office performance of “Turbo,” DreamWorks Animation on Tuesday sought to convince investors that its film operation is healthy.

Wall Street responded favorably: DreamWorks Animation shares jumped 9 percent in after-hours trading, to about $30.25.

For the quarter that ended Sept. 30, the studio reported a profit of $10.1 million, or 12 cents a share, compared with profit of $24.4 million, or 29 cents a share, a year earlier. Analysts had been expecting even gloomier financial results – perhaps as little as a penny a share – contributing to the immediate bounce in share price.

But Jeffrey Katzenberg, the studio’s chief executive, and several lieutenants also worked hard during a post-earnings conference call with analysts to focus attention on the company’s film pipeline and an aggressive expansion into consumer products.

In particular, Mr. Katzenberg said animated competition would be lighter at the box office in the year ahead. “It is a radically different marketplace next summer compared to this last summer,” he said. The snail-themed “Turbo,” which has taken in $246 million worldwide, one of the worst results in the company’s history, had to compete with five other animated films, Mr. Katzenberg noted.

DreamWorks Animation will release three pictures next year, starting with “Mr. Peabody & Sherman” on March 7.
743 2013-10-30 “I’m all in,” Mr. Fux said. “I really think he’s going to keep growing and maturing. Now the important thing is to hook him up with a large corporation that can appreciate a driver like him.”

Sponsorship dollars, and plenty of them, run auto racing, and latching on to a company is a fat task for any driver. But Mr. Karam has come a long way already, from inauspicious beginnings. He is not from a famous racing family. His roots are middle class: His father is a health and physical education teacher and the head wrestling coach at Liberty High School in Bethlehem. His mother is a nurse at Easton Hospital.

What the Karams had, from well before Sage took his first fast laps, was a connection to Nazareth, a Lehigh Valley town with a racing heritage. In 1955, it became the home of an Italian immigrant and aspiring racecar driver named Mario Andretti.

Mr. Andretti, now 73, became a champion, a legend, but he stayed in Nazareth. He lives down the street from the Karams, though not in the same neighborhood, in a 22,000-square-foot Tuscan-style villa on a 22-acre estate off Rose Hill Avenue.

“The ability this kid has shown has been like he’s a natural,” Mr. Andretti said in a telephone interview. “I remember his go-cart days. He’d cry if he couldn’t win. He’s a very committed young man.”

While the Karams were engaged to be married, in the early 1990s, Karen, a Nazareth native, talked Jody into going to a race in Nazareth to cheer on Michael Andretti, one of Mr. Andretti’s sons. They got $35 tickets in the first row — often called the “worst row” because it offers no overview of the track — and were hooked.

“That’s how I created this,” Karen Karam said, laughing and nodding at her husband. “I took him to an Indy car race.”

Sage was born in March 1995. Michael Andretti had returned to race in the United States from a frustrating and futile stint in Formula One overseas. He looked for a fitness instructor and found one nearby in Jody Karam, a former wrestler who still looks as if he could grapple.

Michael Andretti talked Jody into giving Sage a go-cart for his fourth birthday. Sage loved racing and, because Michael, by then 26, was often tied up racing on the weekends, Jody began taking Michael’s son, Marco, with Sage to race at the tracks in Pennsylvania and New York. “My first race, I started last. I wasn’t good,” Sage said, smiling at the memory. “I didn’t understand the rules of the pace lap. I kind of put the gas pedal down, went through the pack and took the lead. Got disqualified.”

Eventually, he understood the rules and got much faster, so the family decided to enter national-level go-cart races when Sage was 8. Jody would transport Sage’s go-cart in the back of an old Toyota pickup truck equipped with a pop-up tent. Most of his competition, from wealthier families, had trailers. Sage was struggling on the track.

“I remember coming down the stairs a few nights and seeing my parents trying to figure out the next solution to how they were going to make the next race without going broke,” Sage said.

Before a race in Charlotte, N.C., Jody gave Sage an ultimatum: Win, or you are done racing. At that point, often competing against 40 cars, Sage’s best finish had been about 10th. But he won two races that weekend. He would later win more than 30 world or national go-carting titles.

At 13, he was invited to compete against about 50 other drivers, some as old as 22, in an event called the Skip Barber Shootout, which promised a $58,000 scholarship to the prestigious racing school founded by the former driver Skip Barber. Sage was the youngest winner ever. Then he met Mr. Fux.

“I saw that determination and desire to be a winner,” Mr. Fux said. “It’s just something innate that he has, and I wanted him to get the most out of it.”

Sage’s father recalled Mr. Fux telling him there was no way, as a schoolteacher, that he could afford to finance a championship racing career for his son. “He said, ‘I’m willing to sponsor him wherever he needs to go, but he’s going to have an appreciation for charity,’ ” the father said.

Toward that end, according to a spokesman for Mr. Fux, the sponsor flew Sage and a group of doctors on his plane down to Honduras on a humanitarian mission for Operation Smile, a charity organization that helps treat cleft lips and cleft palates. “That matured me,” Sage said.

He also continued to win races. Driving a car owned by Michael Andretti, he dominated the USF2000 National Championship as a 15-year-old in 2010, then was named rookie of the year in the Star Mazda Series. He won three races in the series last year.

He joined Schmidt Peterson this year for the Firestone Indy Lights Series — and moved into his own place. He had to enroll in online classes and was forced to give up playing football as a senior, but he plans to return to wrestle and graduate with his class.

“When he first went out there, he didn’t want to come home,” his mother said. “That ended really quick.”

But Sage has been preparing to forge ahead. Many deals in racing are completed around the holidays, and Sage’s teachers at Nazareth have let him answer his cellphone in class.

A sponsor may be calling, willing to back him with millions of dollars in exchange for placing its logo all over his racecar and track suit. He plans to give 10 percent to charity, per Mr. Fux’s instructions. And he plans to prove that Nazareth, Pa., is still fertile ground for racers.

“We’re out to prove that you don’t need to come from wealth,” Sage said. “I’m just the average American. The dream can be acquired.”
744 2013-10-30 The United States government appears to favor natural gas as a motor vehicle fuel. To promote the production of vehicles with fewer carbon emissions, it has allowed automakers to count certain vehicle types more than once when calculating their Corporate Average Fuel Economy, under regulations mandating a fleet average of 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025. Plug-in hybrids and natural gas vehicles can be counted 1.6 times under the CAFE standards, and electric vehicles can be counted twice.

Adapting natural gas as a vehicle fuel introduces engineering challenges. While the fuel burns clean, it is less energy dense than gasoline, so if it is burned in an engine designed to run on conventional fuel, performance and efficiency are degraded.

But since natural gas has an octane rating of 130, compared with 93 for the best gasoline, an engine designed for it can run with very high cylinder pressure, which would cause a regular gasoline engine to knock from premature ignition. More cylinder pressure yields more power, and thus the energy-density advantage of gasoline can be nullified.

“Whenever you have the opportunity to run 130-octane fuel, a lot can be done to optimize engine operation,” said Gregg Black, Chrysler’s senior manager for advanced engine systems, in an interview by phone.

Currently, there are no dedicated and fully optimized natural gas vehicle engines produced for the United States market, although vehicles capable of burning the fuel are available. Ford sells the most domestically — medium- and heavy-duty vehicles prepped for natural gas with some special engine parts on the assembly line but outfitted later by secondary suppliers with compressed natural gas hardware.

Because refueling stations are few and far between, all of the Ford offerings are bifuel and can run on both gasoline and natural gas, a capability that requires compromises. GM has similar offerings but also offers one dedicated natural gas vehicle — a work van.

When asked if the van’s engine was modified to take advantage of the 130 octane of natural gas, Dick Kauling, engineering manager for gaseous fuels at GM, said, “We haven’t at this point done all the optimization that’s possible to take advantage of the octane that’s available in natural gas.”

Chrysler produces a version of its Ram pickup fully prepped for natural gas, but it is a bifuel model too, and, according to Mr. Black, it is engineered to be at its best when running on gasoline.

Honda sells the only natural gas passenger car available in the United States. A version of its Civic subcompact, the car has a revamped version of a gasoline engine that has been prepped for natural gas with a higher compression ratio and modified control systems. Produced in small numbers, it is $8,000 more costly than a comparable gasoline-engine Civic.

In brief, little effort has been expended on the optimization of natural gas engines, and that probably will not change unless demand and volume justify the expense.

Until the pressurized fuel tanks of natural gas vehicles can be easily and quickly refueled, the fleet cannot grow substantially. The number of commercial refueling stations for compressed natural gas has been increasing at a rate of 16 percent yearly, the Energy Department says. And, while the total is still small, advances in refueling equipment should increase the rate of expansion. Much of the infrastructure is already in place: America has millions of miles of natural gas pipeline. Connecting that network to refueling equipment is not difficult.

Although commercial refueling stations will be necessary to support a substantial fleet of natural gas vehicles, home refueling may be the magic bullet that makes the vehicles practical. Electric vehicles depend largely on home charging and most have less than half the range of a fully fueled natural gas vehicle. Some compressed natural gas home refueling products are available, but they can cost as much as $5,000.

Seeking to change that, the Energy Department has awarded grants to a number of companies in an effort to develop affordable home-refueling equipment. Among them is Eaton Corporation, which announced in July 2012 that it was developing a compressed natural gas home refueling station that would be available “before the end of 2015, with a target production price of $500.” When asked how that figure might translate to a selling price, James J. Michels, Eaton’s communications manager, said in an email that the company had not established a selling price.

If Eaton can offer it at a reasonable price, it could be a game changer.
745 2013-10-30 Pfizer’s third-quarter profit dropped 19 percent as competition from generic drugs continued to cut sales, and lower operating expenses failed to offset higher taxes and charges.

Pfizer, the maker of Viagra and the fibromyalgia treatment Lyrica, said Tuesday that net income fell to $2.59 billion, or 39 cents a share, from $3.21 billion, or 43 cents a share, a year earlier.

Excluding $1.27 billion in one-time items, Pfizer said income would have been $3.86 billion, or 58 cents a share. Analysts expected 56 cents. Revenue declined 2 percent to $12.64 billion. Analysts expected $12.69 billion.

Like many other drug makers, Pfizer is suffering as cheaper generic versions erode the sales of older drugs, no longer protected by patents, that once brought in billions of dollars annually. An example is the cholesterol fighter Lipitor, which lost patent protection in November 2011 after nearly a decade as the world’s top-selling drug.

Over all, Pfizer said the loss of those patents was costing it $3 billion to $4 billion a year.

And Pfizer, like its rivals, said unfavorable currency exchange rates cut revenue by two percentage points. Drug makers worldwide have also been hurt by the weak global economy and growing pressure for lower prices in many countries.

Pfizer, based in New York, lowered its 2013 profit forecast to $3.05 to $3.15 a share, down from $3.07 to $3.22, but raised the lower end of its adjusted forecast, which excludes one-time items, by 5 cents and now expects $2.15 to $2.20 per share. The company also reduced the top end of its revenue forecast by $1 billion. It now anticipates $50.8 billion to $51.8 billion. Analysts expect earnings per share of $2.17 and revenue of $51.51 billion, according to FactSet.
746 2013-10-30 “Our fly-in today is about moving votes on the Hill in support of reasonable immigration reform,” Randel K. Johnson, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s senior vice president for immigration and labor issues, said in a conference call with reporters. “I’m confident we’re going to move the ball forward.”

The event’s sponsors include the Chamber of Commerce; FWD.us, a political action group founded by Mark Zuckerberg, the creator of Facebook; the National Immigration Forum; and the Partnership for a New American Economy, which is led by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York, Rupert Murdoch and Bill Marriott Jr.

The effort kicked off in the morning with several panel discussions at the Chamber of Commerce, including one conversation in which the Bipartisan Policy Center, a nonprofit based in Washington, unveiled a new study that found a broad immigration overhaul would help the economy.

Advocates then boarded buses to the Capitol. Members of the group from Utah said that while they believed most of their House lawmakers were largely supportive of at least some form of an immigration overhaul, their goal was to persuade them to get out in front on the issue.

“It’s one thing to be with us,” said Todd Bingham, president of the Utah Manufacturers Association. “It’s another to lead out and actually create dialogue and create discussion and tell leadership in the House that we’re not interested in waiting two years — we need to address this now.”

The push comes as conflicting messages continue to emerge from the immigration debate on Capitol Hill.

Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida and an author of the Senate-passed immigration bill that includes a path to citizenship for those immigrants already in the country illegally, seemed to backpedal slightly on Saturday. His spokesman told Breitbart News, a conservative news outlet, that House conservatives should not fall for a “ruse” that could lead to one of their more narrow, piecemeal immigration bills being used as vehicle to enter a conference negotiation between the House and the Senate, from which a broader immigration bill could emerge.

“On the surface, the statement didn’t read well,” said Alberto R. Cardenas, chairman of the American Conservative Union, when asked about Mr. Rubio’s comments. “But maybe a good explanation from him will be persuasive, so I’m going to hold judgment.”

Alex Conant, a spokesman for Mr. Rubio, said that the senator was not backing away from his support for the Senate bill, but simply reflecting the political reality in the Republican-controlled House, where many conservatives refuse to support any immigration bill because they fear it could be used as a “Trojan horse” and lead to amnesty.

“An ‘all or nothing’ strategy on immigration reform would result in nothing,” Mr. Conant said in a statement. “What is keeping us from progress on a series of immigration issues on which there is strong consensus is the fear that a conference committee on a limited bill will be used to negotiate a comprehensive one. We should take that option off the table so that we can begin to move on the things we agree on.”

Meanwhile, the group of business leaders from Utah remained intensely focused on their congressional delegation. Though they had scheduled meetings with only the four Utah House members, they were hoping to see Mr. Lee, their senator, who won election in 2010 with strong Tea Party support and has remained hesitant to support an immigration overhaul that he considers “amnesty.”

At roughly 11 a.m., good news arrived in the form of a text message: Mr. Lee would meet with them.

“Whatever is causing this issue to be stopped — whether it’s compromise, whether it’s breaking it into pieces — whatever is happening that’s blocking him from taking up a banner and being a leader on this, we want him to get over the barriers,” said Donna Milakovic, the executive vice president of the Utah Valley Chamber of Commerce.
747 2013-10-30 On Sunday night, without the injured wideouts Randall Cobb (fractured right fibula) and James Jones (left knee sprain) and tight end Jermichael Finley (spinal contusion), Rodgers completed 24 of 29 passes for 285 yards and 2 touchdowns. The second score, a 76-yard catch-and-run by Jordy Nelson, featured pure Rodgers brilliance, a pinpoint throw past linebacker Chad Greenway’s left ear into a window the size of an egg carton.

“We’re not putting too much pressure on Aaron to make play after play by himself,” Lang said Sunday night in the cramped, cluttered visitors’ locker room.

“With the production we’re having on the ground, they’re going to have to change the way they play us. It’s tough for teams to play two deep safeties and double-team our receivers when we’re able to run the ball. You bring a safety in the box, it opens up your playbook a lot more to play-action passes and gives your receivers some one-on-one opportunities.”

Nelson, the only healthy regular wideout Sunday, caught 7 passes for 123 yards and 2 touchdowns while often lining up in the slot. The Vikings never had much success stopping Rodgers, anyway; his career 116.4 passing rating versus Minnesota heading into Sunday was the highest by any quarterback against an opponent (minimum 200 pass attempts) since the 1970 merger with the American Football League. His rating Sunday was 130.6.

Green Bay set up Rodgers’s passing by running for 182 yards, its fifth consecutive game gaining 135 or more. The Packers began last weekend ranked sixth in the N.F.L. in rushing, which is unusual. Since 1972, the Packers have finished among the N.F.L.’s top 10 rushing teams just twice, in 2003 (third) and 2004 (10th). Green Bay turned pass-oriented in 1993, when Brett Favre took over at quarterback, and continued on that path after Rodgers succeeded him in 2008.

On Sunday, Lacy said that he could not believe he outrushed Minnesota’s Adrian Peterson, the 2012 N.F.L. most valuable player, who gained 60 yards on 13 carries.

“I respect A. P. — I look up to him,” said Lacy, a second-round pick from Alabama. “He’s a great running back, very talented. I’m just happy to be on the same field with him. A part of me is still like a spectator, I guess you can say. To watch him was pretty cool, too.”

Green Bay Coach Mike McCarthy, who also handles the team’s play-calling, stuck with Lacy and the running game Sunday even after his first six rushes produced 1 yard. Leading by 24-17, the Packers opened the second half with a 15-play, ground-oriented 80-yard drive that took 8 minutes 10 seconds. Lacy carried seven times for 46 yards, the last a 1-yard touchdown, shedding middle linebacker Erin Henderson’s attempted tackle.

“Eddie was just pounding it,” Rodgers said. “He’s tough to bring down. He’s like a bowling ball in there.”

Starks, in his first game back from a sore knee, replaced Lacy for a series later in the half. His 25-yard burst up the middle put the Packers ahead, 38-17, with 14:23 to play. Green Bay scored on seven of nine possessions, failing only in kneel-down situations before halftime and in the final 83 seconds.

“You never really want to just go run a guy 30 times,” McCarthy said of Lacy. “I plan on being in the playoffs, so I want him running the same way in January and February as he runs in September and October. You have to be conscious of that, especially with Eddie Lacy’s running style. The guy is not juking people. He’s running through arm tackles.”

After so many years searching for one reliable running back, the Packers appear to have two, maybe three. Not quite Jim Taylor and Paul Hornung, the mainstays of the Lombardi years, but good enough.

“I just think it’s cool to be able to add another dimension,” Lacy said. “We’re still going to pass the ball here. A-Rod is a great quarterback, and I’m happy to be alongside of him.”
748 2013-10-30 Infosys, which is based in Bangalore, said the resolution of the case was not yet completed. “Infosys’ policy demands adherence to all laws, rules and regulations everywhere we operate and we continue to take our compliance obligations seriously,” the statement said.

The settlement is one of several setbacks in this country for Infosys, and could also affect other big Indian outsourcing companies that rely on the temporary H-1B employment visas to bring thousands of workers from India each year for technology contracts here. In a class-action lawsuit filed this year in Wisconsin, four American tech workers assert that Infosys broadly discriminates against Americans with its practice of employing mainly South Asians in the United States.

The outcome in Texas is long-awaited relief to an American employee of Infosys, Jack B. Palmer. He spurred the federal investigation by bringing a whistle-blower lawsuit in Alabama in February 2011, saying that he had been punished and sidelined by Infosys executives after he reported witnessing widespread visa fraud. Since then, Mr. Palmer said by email, the case has continued to dominate his life. He has remained on the company’s payroll while cooperating with a federal investigation that has ground slowly forward, but he has not been assigned any work or spoken with anyone at Infosys for many months.

“Despite the personal toll it took on me, it would have been much worse in the long run if I had turned the other cheek,” Mr. Palmer said. “It was a question of right and wrong, following my conscience and following the law.”

Infosys strongly rejected Mr. Palmer’s claims and fought his whistle-blower case, which was dismissed last year by a federal judge in Alabama.

But the time Mr. Palmer has invested is likely to be worth it. Mr. Shipchandler and Mr. Palmer’s lawyer, Kenneth Mendelsohn of Montgomery, Ala., declined to state a figure, but people familiar with the case said Mr. Palmer could receive as much as $5 million from the payment Infosys will make to the federal government, under a provision of federal false claims law.

One of India’s largest technology outsourcing companies, Infosys employs 160,000 people in 30 countries, including about 15,000 people in the United States.

Competition for the H-1B temporary employment visas is intense among companies, here and in India, because there is a basic annual limit of 65,000 visas. This year, the limit was reached within one week after the application period opened. In recent years, Infosys and other Indian outsourcing companies have consistently been among the top recipients of H-1B visas. As a result of recent changes by Congress, large foreign companies like Infosys must now pay as much as $5,000 for each visa.

The business visitor visa, which is known as B-1, has lower fees, is quicker to obtain and is not subject to the same numerical caps. But the B-1 visa is for foreigners coming to meetings and training sessions. It does not allow them to live or work in the United States. The workers continue to be paid at wage rates in India, which are much lower than wages in this country.

According to the court documents, from 2008 through 2011 Infosys “as a matter of practice” submitted false invitation letters intended “to deceive” immigration and consular authorities by indicating that Indian workers were coming for meetings when they were in fact being assigned to technology contracts here.

Infosys prepared “dos and don’ts” lists that advised Indian workers how to mislead American immigration authorities in B-1 visa application letters and interviews, according to the documents, to avoid the appearance that they were coming to work. “Do not mention activities like implementation, design and testing, consulting, etc. which sound like work,” was one of the instructions.

Infosys regularly misinformed immigration officials about where Indian workers on B-1 visas would travel in this country, to avoid a more onerous requirement of the H-1B visa that the company demonstrate that it was not undercutting prevailing wages paid to Americans in places where Indians would be assigned, the documents show. Infosys also rewrote some contracts with American companies to conceal the fact that it was using B-1 visa holders to perform jobs that were “otherwise required to be performed by United States citizens or legitimate H-1B visa holders,” according to the documents.

The prosecutors charge that Infosys regularly submitted the false information about its B-1 visas “for the purposes of increasing profits” by minimizing costs and gaining greater flexibility in moving Indian workers around the country.

In the most fully documented aspect of the case, federal investigators found “widespread failure” by Infosys to maintain accurate and up-to-date records, known as I-9 forms, for its Indian employees. Because of the faulty records, the company could have kept thousands of foreigners working here after their visas had lapsed.

A federal grand jury in Texas had been weighing criminal charges for visa abuse. Since prosecutors reached a civil settlement with the company, it is likely that they have agreed not to pursue criminal charges on the immigration issues.

During his long wait to see what the Texas prosecutors would come up with, Mr. Palmer, who lives near Montgomery, has wrestled with depression and has found himself in an unwelcome state of idleness and isolation. A technology program manager, he was drawing a paycheck from Infosys but could not work for it or anyone else. It was Mr. Palmer who first reported that Infosys was writing false invitation letters for B-1 visas for Indian employees, because he was asked to write one and he refused.

A low moment for Mr. Palmer came when the Alabama court ruled against his whistle-blower case, finding that the harassment he claimed was not sufficiently severe. But he said that with the help of Mr. Mendelsohn, “I concentrated on what I can control in my life, which is my attitude.”

“My physical and mental health is good,” he said.

Mr. Palmer said he turned down an early settlement offer from Infosys, because it would not have allowed him to continue cooperating with federal investigators. “They wanted to buy my silence, and I wouldn’t do it,” he said. “I never did it for the money. I did it because they were violating the law.”
749 2013-10-30 The autobiography of the pop star Morrissey, which has become a quick sensation in Britain, has found an American publisher. G. P. Putnam’s Sons, an imprint of Penguin Random House, acquired the memoir, the publisher said on Tuesday.

The 457-page book, simply titled “Autobiography,” has become a bestseller in Britain, where it was released two weeks ago, and several publishers in the United States were engaged in a fierce auction for the American rights last week.

Putnam, whicht has published Tom Clancy, A. Scott Berg and Nora Roberts, got word on Friday that it had won the auction, said Ivan Held, the president of Putnam. “We were thrilled,” Mr. Held said on Tuesday. “People were jumping up and down here.”

The book will be released in hardcover on Dec. 3. “We’re going to crash it through,” Mr. Held said. “That’s about as quick as you can do it and get proper distribution.”

The American version of “Autobiography” will be nearly identical to the edition that has already been released in Britain by Penguin Classics.

That edition, which was released in paperback, has already been reviewed widely in the United States, even though fans of Morrissey had to order copies from Britain if they wanted to read the book. Writing in The New York Times, Ben Ratliff said that “Autobiography,” is “as sharp as it is tedious, both empathetic and pointlessly cruel,” adding that Morrissey, the former singer for The Smiths, is “a pop star of unusual writing talent.”
750 2013-10-30 This all would have been troubling yet familiar to my father and other relatives of his generation. They came of age in a country that was a stew of anti-Semitism. After World War I, Communists ruled for more than four months, and since most of those in power were Jews, the link between Communism and Judaism was forged in many minds. For many Hungarians, to be anti-Communist meant being anti-Semitic.

My father was not a convinced anti-Semite, but as a Hungarian Christian from a strong family tradition of support for the monarchy, he flirted with anti-Semitism as a young man — a fact he was ashamed of his entire life. The experiences in Berlin, he wrote, “extinguished the last, minimal remnants of anti-Semitism that I had had as a teenager during the counterrevolution.” His years in Berlin, and his two other encounters with Hitler, were antidotes to any vestiges of anti-Semitism he had once harbored.

At a diplomatic reception in September 1934 before the Nuremberg rally that Leni Riefenstahl famously memorialized in “Triumph of the Will,” my father could not reconcile the old-fashioned, modest, almost shy Hitler with the raving lunatic he had seen at rallies.

The final time he met Hitler was June 7, 1942. The prime minister of Hungary was invited on an official visit to the Führer’s wartime headquarters in East Prussia and asked my father — now deputy head of the political division in the Foreign Ministry — to go with him. They ate in Hitler’s dining car and my father saw what he later referred to as “the Satanic nature of his character.”

Hungary was an ally of Germany, but an extremely unreliable one. Its officials refused to deport Jews to concentration camps. My father, known for his opposition to Nazism, had attempted to organize an effort to negotiate a separate peace with the Allies, an effort that failed and led to his arrest after the Germans invaded Hungary, on March 19, 1944.

After a regime of Hungarian Nazis took over in October 1944, voices of moderation were jailed or killed. Some 440,000 Jews were deported. Members of the gendarmerie were enthusiastic participants in the process. Ultimately some 600,000 Hungarian Jews were murdered.

If anti-Communism represented one side of hatred for Jews, anticapitalism represented another. My mother’s family, the highly assimilated children and grandchildren of the Hungarian Jewish industrialist Manfred Weiss, fell into the latter category.

My maternal grandfather was transported to the Mauthausen concentration camp in Austria after the invasion of Hungary, but he was lucky. He and his family were granted safe passage to Portugal after making, in effect, a deal with Heinrich Himmler for freedom in exchange for their property.

Before this deal was made, my maternal grandmother had disguised herself as a Hungarian peasant during the Nazi occupation. She met the wife of the anti-Semitic former prime minister (and Nazi collaborator) Bela Imredy, with whom my mother’s family had once socialized (albeit not with great closeness). My grandmother asked if there was anything Mrs. Imredy could do to save my grandfather. Mrs. Imredy replied that she couldn’t. And as they parted she turned and said, ominously and elliptically, “Now it’s our turn.”

My parents married at the end of 1945, after my father was liberated at the war’s end. He later became the Hungarian ambassador to the United States. He resigned in 1947, after the Communist takeover. He and my mother managed to remain in America. My father died in 1988, my mother in 2002.

I wonder what they would make of Hungary today. The same stereotypes of the past — the association of Jews with Communism and capitalism — fuel the support for Jobbik today.

Into this caldron has stepped the great conductor Ivan Fischer, himself a Hungarian Jew. He recently composed and performed an opera entitled “Red Heifer” that chronicles the story of a small group of Jews in the 19th century who were wrongly accused of the murder of a Hungarian girl from the countryside. It is a true story, one that uses the distant past to illuminate a dark time in the present.

Of course it is unlikely to change any minds. But the simple fact of it is an affirmation of the power of art to accomplish what decent politicians cannot. It is also an example the terrible persistence of a state of mind, a kind of psychopathy that did not begin with Hitler and, tragically, did not end with him.

Marianne Szegedy-Maszak, a journalist, is the author of “I Kiss Your Hands Many Times: Hearts, Souls, and Wars in Hungary.”
751 2013-10-30 The company’s profit declined from the previous year primarily from the impact of the asset sales, particularly the Russian deal, as oil-field sales led to lower production. In the third quarter, BP earned about $800 million from its nearly 20 percent share in Rosneft, compared with about $1.2 billion from its TNK-BP stake a year earlier.

Excluding Russia, where BP has no operational control, BP’s production fell about 2 percent from a year earlier, to about 2.2 million barrels a day, the company said. BP’s profit from refining crude oil were also substantially lower.

In some respects, Mr. Dudley appears to be succeeding in steering BP to a new normal as a smaller — if still large — company. BP is planning to complete 16 to 18 exploration wells, more than in the last three years combined, at a cost of about $3 billion. BP said that so far from those wells, it had made two gas discoveries off India and one off Egypt, as well as an oil discovery announced on Tuesday off Angola. But investors continue to be concerned about the extent of BP’s liabilities in the United States from the 2010 Gulf of Mexico disaster.

BP is “certainly much closer to normal,” said Peter Hutton, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets in London, but “it is not out of the woods yet.” He said it was positive for BP that it had set aside no additional financial provisions because of the Gulf of Mexico spill.

While BP is expanding its drilling operations, the company continues its fight in Louisiana courts to limit penalties and payments to claimants arising from the 2010 Deepwater Horizon rig explosion that killed 11 workers and polluted Gulf of Mexico waters and hundreds of miles of coastline with oil.

The second phase of the civil trial, which will determine billions of dollars in penalties, ended two weeks ago. The United States government argued that 4.2 million barrels was discharged into the sea, while BP countered that the amount was closer to 2.45 million barrels.

At stake are Clean Water Act fines that range from a maximum of $1,100 for every barrel spilled through simple negligence to as much as $4,300 a barrel if the company is found to have been grossly negligent. Fines potentially could amount to more than $18 billion. But if BP’s position is upheld — that there was simple negligence and only 2.45 million barrels of spillage — total fines would amount to no more than $2.7 billion.

United States District Court Judge Carl J. Barbier ordered BP and the federal government along with its aligned claimants to submit summaries of evidence by Dec. 20, with responses due by late January. A third phase of the trial, sometime next year, will address the environmental effects of the disaster.
752 2013-10-30 William C. Lowe, who supervised the creation of IBM’s first personal computer, a technological touchstone that he insisted — and proved — could be conceived, engineered and manufactured in a single year by a company not known for speeding products to market, died on Oct. 19 in Lake Forest, Ill. He was 72.

The cause was a heart attack, his daughter, Michelle Marshall, said.

Apple and other companies had been selling personal computers for several years when IBM began looking for ways to get involved in the business in the late 1970s. The company had long dominated corporate and government mainframe computing by using proprietary software and in-house production. But it was hardly nimble, and its leaders believed it would be left behind if it took its typical years to reach production.

In 1980, Mr. Lowe, who had joined the company as a product test engineer in 1962, right after college, pitched an improbable idea: He would form a team that would build a personal computer in a year. How? The team would bypass IBM’s proprietary development model and instead use parts and software made by a growing industry of outsiders. Even IBM seemed surprised when, a year later, the company pulled it off.

On Aug. 12, 1981, the company introduced the IBM Personal Computer, also known as the 5150. It used an operating system called MS-DOS 1.0, made by a little-known company from Washington State named Microsoft. It ran on an Intel 8088 microprocessor and cost $1,565, not including a monitor.

“Two decades earlier, an IBM computer often cost as much as $9 million and required an air-conditioned quarter-acre of space and a staff of 60 people to keep it fully loaded with instructions,” according to a history on the company’s website. “The new IBM PC could not only process information faster than those earlier machines, but it could hook up to the home TV set, play games, process text and harbor more words than a fat cookbook.”
753 2013-10-30 2 or 3 leeks, white and light green parts only, cut in half lengthwise and cleaned

1. Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. Line a sheet pan with parchment. Pat each slice of tofu dry with paper towels.

2. Whisk together the soy sauce, ginger, garlic, honey or agave nectar, lime juice, miso, mirin, and oils. Pour into a dish that can accommodate all of the tofu slices in a single layer (like a baking dish). Place the tofu slices in the marinade and turn them over. Leave to marinate for 15 minutes, turning once or twice. Transfer to the baking sheet. Add the peppers to the dish with the marinade and toss to coat thoroughly, then place on the baking sheet in a single layer. Retain the marinade for the squash and leeks.

3. Place the baking sheet in the oven and roast for 15 to 20 minutes, turning the peppers once with tongs, until the edges of the tofu are just beginning to color and the marinade sets on the surface, and the peppers are sizzling and beginning to color on the edges. Remove from the heat and transfer the tofu and peppers to a bowl or platter.

4. Turn up the oven to 425 degrees. Toss the squash and leeks thoroughly with the marinade. Spread on the baking sheet in an even layer. Place in the oven and roast the leeks for 20 minutes, turning once halfway through, until tender and lightly browned, and the squash for 30 minutes, stirring every 10 minutes, until tender and caramelized. Remove from the heat. Remove the outer layer or layers of the leek (they will be tough and papery), leaving the tender inner part.

5. Spoon rice into bowls or onto plates. Top with the squash. Arrange two slabs of tofu, 1 or 2 pieces of leek, and a portion of peppers on each plate. If desired, spoon any remaining marinade over the rice, and serve.

Advance preparation: The rice and baked tofu and vegetables will keep for a couple of days in the refrigerator.

Nutritional information per serving: 350 calories; 19 grams fat; 2 grams saturated fat; 12 grams polyunsaturated fat; 4 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 32 grams carbohydrates; 5 grams dietary fiber; 473 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 14 grams protein

Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”
754 2013-10-31 GURIAN--Leah (Lil), on October 29, 2013 in her 92nd year. Beloved wife of the late Elias Gurian, adored and adoring mother of Stephen Gurian, Bonny and Marvin Rosen, Donald and Karen Gurian. Cherished grandmother of Alyson and Steven Justman, Mela...
755 2013-10-31 Up Next in Video
756 2013-10-31 The retailer raised $225 million after demand from potential shareholders prompted the company to seek even more in its market debut....
757 2013-10-31 In his latest ad, Joseph J. Lhota tries to meld warnings of what would befall New York if Bill de Blasio became mayor with a positive message about what he himself would do in the job....
758 2013-10-31 The administration says SHOP will be fully functional by the end of November — but that small businesses have other options in the meantime.
759 2013-10-31 Bondholders in the Brazilian energy company OGX have a better chance of recovering more money by injecting more cash. But there are dangers if Eike Batista pushes them too far....
760 2013-10-31 A petition has been started calling for the release of a Saudi Arabian columnist, who was detained by the authorities for his views against the kingdom’s ban of female drivers....
761 2013-10-31 Select offereings in the Scary Movies series at the Film Society of Lincoln Center....
762 2013-10-31 Small-business employment declines. Do business owners have a false sense of security about their data?...
763 2013-10-31 The administration says SHOP will be fully functional by the end of November — but that small businesses have other options in the meantime....
764 2013-10-31 Just about anyone with a large dog can appreciate a vehicle with a large rear compartment. The trouble is, with all that space back there it can be difficult to keep things secured in one spot — particularly an animal with a mind of its own. Many dog owners buy those cagelike steel partitions that mount just behind the rear seats of a sport utility vehicle, crossover or wagon, but what if you want to drive a car that doesn’t look like a mobile animal control unit?

Along with a cargo management system available in its all-new Cherokee, Chrysler will offer another handy accessory: a folding pet enclosure. With cloth and mesh sides — not unlike children’s playpens or those pet trailers some dog owners tow behind bicycles — the tentlike enclosure clips into the floor of the Cherokee’s cargo area.

The soft-sided pet compartment can be folded flat when not in use, and it comes with a carrying handle. Expanded to its full size, the enclosure takes up most of the cargo area of a Cherokee with the rear seats up. There’s plenty of room for a large dog, and the driver doesn’t have to worry about it jumping over the seats into the passenger compartment while the vehicle is in motion.

The cargo management system, which consists of a rack mounted in the rear compartment and various pouches and containers that can be clipped onto it, is a separate affair. So technically you could put your dog in the pet compartment and some groceries in the reusable grocery bag that clips to the rack. In practice, though — especially if there’s bacon in the bag — it might be a better idea to keep the groceries up front.

The pet carrier will be available this year as an accessory through the Mopar catalog, which carries a number of model-specific goodies, like first-aid kits, performance upgrades and even a tent that connects to a vehicle’s open tailgate.
765 2013-10-31 The relative openness of Chinese society in its eastern cities, coupled with a highly authoritarian approach to western regions, may provide incentives to militants to stage attacks in population centers in the east, where targets are less secure ...
766 2013-10-31 Shutting down live poultry markets is extremely effective in preventing human cases of avian flu and should be considered if the disease reappears this winter, researchers in China reported Wednesday.

But experts, including the authors, warned that shutting such markets permanently would be impractical because consumers in many countries demand live birds, and small farmers cannot afford refrigerated slaughterhouses and trucks.

Even temporary shutdowns create economic problems but should be considered, they said.

The study, published by The Lancet, concerned last spring’s outbreak of H7N9 flu outbreak in southern China. The flu is still rare in humans — only 135 cases were confirmed before it disappeared in the summer, but 45 were fatal.

Two new human cases appeared in China this month, raising fears that it will surge this winter.

In four cities that responded in April by closing their live poultry markets — Shanghai, Hangzhou, Huzhou and Nanjing — human cases dropped almost immediately by 97 to 99 percent, the researchers said.

The flu first appeared in March. Most victims caught it from birds and only a few passed it on to family members or medical personnel, scientists believe.
767 2013-10-31 Opponents of the program say they hope that the $300 million the federal government will spend this year to buy excess sugar will prompt lawmakers to re-examine it. (A larger-than-expected harvest and the importation of millions of pounds of sugar from Mexico led to a surplus, contributing to a drop in prices, sugar industry officials said.) By law, the government has to buy excess sugar when prices drop below a certain level.

“I’m hoping that members who are meeting to work on a final farm bill will consider that we are paying millions to bail out sugar producers, while doing nothing for small business, which make little sense,” said Senator Jeanne Shaheen, Democrat of New Hampshire, who with Senator Mark Kirk, Republican of Illinois, has sponsored legislation to overhaul the sugar program. “Sugar price supports are an unnecessary market intervention that have no place in our 21st-century economy.”

But sugar producers, bolstered by lawmakers from sugar-beet-producing states like Minnesota and sugarcane states like Florida, have spent an estimated $20 million since 2011 to block efforts to change the program. (Sugar beets account for about 55 percent of American sugar production, and sugar cane for about 45 percent.) Small candy makers, bakers and others who have lobbied Congress for lower prices say that taking on the sugar lobby is like taking on Goliath.

“We were no match for the sugar people,” said Judy Hilliard McCarthy, an owner of Hilliard’s House of Candy, a candy maker just outside Boston. Ms. McCarthy said she had made several trips to Washington to lobby on behalf of the industry.

Government and academic studies support claims by candy makers that the sugar program has had an impact on the industry. A widely cited 2006 study by the Commerce Department and a 2011 Iowa State University study found that the price supports had led to job losses among candy makers.

In particular, the Commerce Department study found that three candy-making jobs were lost for each job growing or processing sugar that was saved by higher prices. The Iowa State study found that eliminating price supports and quotas for sugar would create about 20,000 jobs for American food processors, bakeries and candy makers.

John Beghin, a professor at Iowa State who helped write the university’s report, said new Agriculture Department data added evidence that the sugar program was hurting food makers: The amount of sugar in imported products increased by about 33 percent from 2002 to 2012.

“So clearly, companies are making the decision to move elsewhere to take advantage of lower sugar prices, and then shipping the products back here,” he said.

Candy producers say the real impact of the sugar program can be seen in the empty buildings and job losses in hard-hit towns like Bryan, Ohio, home of the Spangler Candy Company, the maker of Dum Dums. Faced with the high cost of sugar, the company moved about 200 jobs to Juárez, Mexico, where it makes candy canes.

The decision was tied more to the cost of sugar than to labor costs, said Kirk Vashaw, the president and chief executive of the company.

About 420 jobs remain in Bryan, but Mr. Vashaw said the company would have liked to have kept all of them in Ohio.

“Our company has been based here for generations,” he said. “We don’t want to leave Ohio, but I can get a much better price for sugar in Mexico than I can here.”

Other candy makers have made similar decisions. Adams & Brooks, a Los Angeles-based candy maker that opened in 1932, has shifted about two-thirds of its production to Mexico.

The company has a plant in Tijuana, where lower prices for sugar reduce the cost of producing items like lollipops and its P-Nuttles butter toffee peanuts, said John Brooks, the company’s president.

“It’s really not that much of a choice,” Mr. Brooks said. “You move or you go out of business. I keep hearing sugar producers saying they need a safety net, but what about us? Not one is creating a program for us that guarantees our industry a price for our products.”

Ms. Calvo-Bacci of the Chocolate Truffle said she and her husband had not yet decided whether they should try to move the manufacturing plant across the border.

“But it’s something we have to think about,” she said. “We want to stay, but we just can’t afford to if things don’t change.”
768 2013-10-31 Intel may bow out of its ambitious cable-television-via-the-Internet venture, known as OnCue, by selling it to Verizon, according to people with direct knowledge of the talks between the two companies.

It is possible that Intel will forge ahead with OnCue through a partnership with Verizon, or a pact with some other company, but a purchase by Verizon is most likely, according to the people, who insisted on anonymity because the talks were supposed to be private. A deal will most likely be struck by the end of the year.

OnCue, as envisioned by Intel, would take the traditional cable television bundle and make it more consumer-friendly by transmitting it via the Internet. The company’s technology has impressed many, but channel owners have been reluctant to make the necessary licensing deals, stirring speculation that Intel might not move forward.

The other big roadblock has been an internal one. When a new chief executive, Brian M. Krzanich, took over the company earlier this year, he expressed skepticism about the television project because it was not a core part of Intel’s business, and directed the project leaders to seek partnerships for it.

Earlier this fall Intel executives privately acknowledged that they would fall short of their widely publicized goal of introducing OnCue to the public in time for the holiday season.

A takeover of OnCue could position Verizon to sell a cablelike television service across the United States through existing broadband pipes or through its Verizon Wireless business. Its current eight-year-old television subscription service, FiOS, has five million subscribers and is growing steadily, but it is available in only about 15 percent of American homes because it is delivered over a proprietary fiber-optic network. Verizon said last year that it did not plan to expand that fiber-optic network much more.

But a Verizon television service could potentially reach many more people if it were not linked to the fiber-optic network and were made available through any broadband connection. Alternatively, it could be sold as an optional mobile TV upgrade for the Verizon Wireless unit’s roughly 100 million monthly subscribers.
769 2013-10-31 “One reason why so many people deserted was that they were Catholic and they felt like they were being mistreated by their Protestant officers,” said Amy S. Greenberg, a historian at Pennsylvania State University.

At the time, in the 1840s, many Americans saw Roman Catholics as an invading horde and a threat to American values. Hatred and discrimination were widespread, and in the military, historians note, rank reinforced bigotry: a majority of the full-time Army regulars were poor immigrants and Catholics, while officers and part-time volunteers were overwhelmingly wealthier white Protestants.

The Mexican-American War also had little to do with principle — historians on both sides of the border describe it as little more than a land grab — and desertion was a problem even before the conflict started. As troops massed on the American side of the Rio Grande in 1845, scores of soldiers, including many immigrants, disappeared across the border.

The San Patricios, whose numbers grew into the hundreds, became the most famous deserters. They made their first appearance as a unit in September 1846 at the Battle of Monterrey. “No one had ever seen people from another country, especially Europeans, come and help the Mexican Army,” Mr. Rodríguez said. And they were tough, too.

“They became the most effective fighting force that Mexico had, largely because they knew how to use the armaments of the U.S. Army,” said Professor Greenberg, author of “A Wicked War: Polk, Clay, Lincoln, and the 1846 U.S. Invasion of Mexico.” They had a special talent for capturing American cannons, she added, “and for using them against the Americans incredibly effectively.”

Here at the battle of La Angostura, which the Americans call the Battle of Buena Vista, the San Patricios occupied a spot near the base of the hillside, just below where the gravel mine can now be found. By most accounts, they pounded the Americans, and kept them from advancing for two days.

But it was not enough. The Mexican commander, Gen. Antonio López de Santa Anna, retreated after the second day of battle on Feb. 23, 1847. His troops outnumbered the Americans three or four to one, and many historians argue that the Mexicans were defeating the ranks of volunteers and regulars led by Gen. Zachary Taylor, whose hero status in the war ultimately led him to the White House.

General Santa Anna fled anyway, essentially giving up on the war for northern Mexico. Some historians have theorized that he left because his soldiers needed food and water or because he needed to deal with an internal rebellion back in Mexico City. But Mr. Rodríguez blames one of Mexico’s ugliest flaws: corruption.

“When you look at this closely, you have to think he made a deal,” Mr. Rodríguez said. “It encapsulates the whole problem of Mexico.”

And perhaps that helps explain the struggle to draw more attention to the battle. Mr. Rodríguez and his partner at the museum, Isidro Berrueto Alanis, say they dream of a day when these hills are a military park where Americans and Mexicans can walk together, as Southerners and Northerners tour Gettysburg, Pa.

But for many, the past still pricks the sensitivities of the present. When Absolut Vodka ran an ad in Mexico a few years ago with a map showing California, Texas and much of the West belonging to Mexico, there were threats of a boycott in the United States as many Americans insisted that the company was calling for redrawn borders or mass Mexican immigration.

The furor subsided only after Absolut posted a message on its website explaining that the map was simply a portrait of North America before 1848, “a time which the population of Mexico may feel was more ideal.”

Mexico also tends to see the war through its own narrow lens. Some scholars argue that the conflict, or “the invasion,” as Mexicans call it, unified the country by providing a common enemy and a legend of brave opposition. Yet residents here in the small town of La Angostura, like many of their countrymen, struggled to explain what occurred a few steps from their homes. Some just said they were proud to live near a site associated with Mexican courage.

Mr. Berrueto, 59, the Angostura Battle Museum’s quiet, professorial director, has been seeking a broader range of answers from the area for years. Roaming alone, waving his own small metal detector over the craggy ground, he found many of the most interesting artifacts now in the museum.

One glass case, for example, is filled with broken earrings, a reminder that the mothers of many young Mexican soldiers insisted on going to war with them so they could provide succor to their sons near the front lines.

At the battleground a short drive to the south, Mr. Berrueto and Mr. Rodríguez planted a “peace tree” a few years ago at the top of the main ridge. Swaying in the breeze, it is a more subtle memorial than the small stone monument down by the highway, erected decades ago, now surrounded by weeds.

And every February, they make the climb to where General Santa Anna stood, retracing the steps of the soldiers who died here by the hundreds. Occasionally they have been joined by officials from the Irish consulate and Mexican-Americans from San Antonio. Mr. Rodríguez, whose father was born in Texas, said those are some of the happiest times at the site because they remind us that “the war without satisfaction” need not define the future.

“The Americans who fought this war are not the same Americans who live there now,” he said. “We don’t want to relive this war; we just want to remember it.”
770 2013-10-31 Boys who played high school football sustained 11.2 concussions per 10,000 games and practices, well above the 6.9 concussions sustained by lacrosse players, according to data reported by high school athletic trainers. College football players received 6.3 concussions per 10,000 games and practices, according to a separate study reviewed by medical experts. However, this data was based on a relatively small set of high schools reporting,  and the incidence rate in the study is considered far lower than the actual rate of concussions.

About 250,000 people under the age of 19 went to emergency rooms with concussions in 2009 compared with 150,000 in 2001. But Graham said it was unclear whether this increase was because of more head hits in sports like football or greater awareness among coaches, players and their parents.

Data compiled by researchers at the Virginia Tech-Wake Forest School of Biomedical Engineering and Sciences showed that football players as young as 7 sustain hits to the head comparable in magnitude to those absorbed by high school and adult players, and most of the hits are sustained in practices, not games. The findings were part of one of the most comprehensive studies of youth football players to date but were not reviewed by the researchers from the Institute of Medicine.

N.F.L. AND ONEIDA NATION TALK N.F.L. officials met with leaders of the Oneida Nation, who have called for the Washington Redskins to change their name, which they consider a racial slur.

The Oneida Nation has started a campaign, Change the Mascot; taken out advertisements in cities where the Redskins have played this season; and protested outside stadiums.

In a letter to Commissioner Roger Goodell, Ray Halbritter, a leader of the Oneida Nation, asked the league to “finally halt the destructive effects of the ‘R-word’ on our people and Native peoples everywhere.”

Goodell has left the decision over whether to change the name to Daniel Snyder, the team owner. Snyder has said he plans to keep the name.

EAGLES TO START FOLES Nick Foles will be back at quarterback for the Eagles when they play the Raiders on Sunday. Two weeks after sustaining a concussion, Foles will start in place of Michael Vick, who is out for the second time this season with a hamstring injury. (AP)

BILLS QUARTERBACK’S STATUS CLOUDY Buffalo Bills quarterback Thad Lewis missed practice because of sore ribs and is “50-50” to play Sunday against the unbeaten Kansas City Chiefs, Coach Doug Marrone says. The rookie Jeff Tuel and the free-agent addition Matt Flynn split the first-team reps. (AP)

PANTHERS’ STEWART ‘READY’ Panthers running back Jonathan Stewart said he was “ready” to play after sitting out the last 11 months with an ankle injury. Stewart went through his first padded practice since injuring his ankle last November and said he was hopeful the Panthers would allow him to play Sunday against Atlanta. (AP)

BRADFORD SURGERY SET St. Louis Rams quarterback Sam Bradford will have surgery next Tuesday to repair a torn left knee ligament. He expects to be ready for the opener next season. The backup Kellen Clemens will make his second straight start this week against Tennessee. (AP)
771 2013-10-31 “It has been very heavy, very intense, and it is not over yet,” Angela Missoni said last Tuesday, sitting in a garden lounge behind the Bowery Hotel. She wore a thin black knit cardigan with wavy lines of turquoise and peach along the edges, and held a pack of cigarettes in her hand, occasionally taking one out and putting it back until she finally lit one. It is a habit she has picked up again. She looked at her cellphone occasionally. Whenever it rang, a picture of Otto, the newborn son of her daughter Margherita and her first grandson, appeared on the screen.

“I’m not complaining,” she said. “I understand, but it is weird. If somebody passes away, you might receive condolences for 20 days, for a month, but when it goes on for 11 months,” she said, her voice trailing off as her eyes began to redden. “If we are really going to have those bodies, then we need to have a funeral,” she said. “And then it will be finished.”

NEARLY 20 YEARS have passed since Rosita and Tai Missoni passed control of the company to their three children, Vittorio, Luca and Angela. Angela Missoni, as the creative director and the designer of the women’s wear collections, has been its most visible face, the one anointed by the family to transform Missoni from a company known for zigzag sweaters into a global fashion brand. Although the entire family plays a part, with cousins and grandparents featured in recent advertising campaigns, it is clear that its future has long been entrusted to Angela, 54, the youngest of the three children, and the responsibility weighs heavily on her.

Those inside the company described Angela’s relationship with Vittorio as especially symbiotic, with both siblings working to expand the reach of Missoni. She concentrated on building the look of Missoni, while Vittorio, who had started in marketing, became the top business executive, formulating plans to enter new markets like China and introduce products. Luca, for many years, designed the men’s wear collections, but seemed to find the most happiness overseeing the archives and building special projects as the artistic director of archives.

While Missoni is a global name, the company is, in truth, a relatively small business, with sales of its fashion, fragrance and home collections estimated in recent business profiles to be as high as $120 million. Ms. Missoni believes the company could be 10 times larger, a vision she shared with Vittorio, given its high profile and the momentum from a 2011 collaboration with Target and its recent venture into Missoni-designed hotels, but many of its expansion plans have been sidelined in the wake of the tragedies. And the family, holding out hope that Vittorio had somehow survived all these months, has not yet dealt with his loss or the likelihood that the management role may eventually have to be filled by an outsider.

“Rosita and Tai were incredibly successful designers at a time when working in fashion was almost easy,” Stefano Tonchi, the editor of W and a longtime family friend, said at the Fashion Group event last week. “Angela had a much more difficult task, to keep the Missoni brand meaningful and relevant in a much more competitive world.”

Angela grew up with the label, founded by her parents in 1953, based on an idea that Tai suggested after seeing the looms used in the shawl-making business of Rosita’s family. He introduced multicolored threads to the machines, creating the vibrant patterns that have since became a signature of Missoni’s off-kilter luxury designs, so recognizable that many items from the company’s lower-price collection for Target, with zigzag bicycles and place settings, sold out instantly. But he also sought to protect the name, and the Missoni lifestyle, from the risks of growing too much.

Angela remembers him asking: “Why do you want to gain more money if you don’t have time to spend it? Do you really want to work more?”

He established the factory and family home in Sumirago, with spectacular views of the Alps, for that very reason, because he couldn’t understand why anyone would want to work in a big city. Angela’s earliest memories, around the time she was 6 or 7, were of the fashion shows her parents put on in Milan. That and the smell of apricots stewing on the kitchen stove in Sumirago during May.

“I realized very young that my parents were different than the parents of other pupils in my school,” she said. “They were not the classic bourgeois family. They had adventures. The world was large for them.”

Their shows were strikingly provocative. One was held in a theater where the models were visible in shadow changing behind a screen onstage, and at another, the models floated across a swimming pool in inflatable chairs.

“It ended up with all the girls in the water,” Ms. Missoni said. “I was standing next to my mother, who was greeting the press coming into the show, and Anna Piaggi arrived with a black dress with white stripes on the side from four or five years earlier, and she said to my mother, ‘Look what I’m wearing!’ It was 1968, and she already had a vintage Missoni.”

But Angela was an introverted child, intimidated by the Italian intelligentsia that visited the Missoni homes. “I wouldn’t open my mouth,” she said. By her own admission, she was not a very good student, and a little wild in her teenage years, more so than Vittorio and Luca, anyway, good boys who seemed destined to work in the family business. Angela, at 13, said that her only priority was to have children, which nearly set Rosita to fainting.

All of the women in Rosita’s family had been hard workers. In their factories, in Varese, her grandmother Diamante Jelmini might have been standing behind her grandfather Angelo, and her great-grandmother Giuseppina Torrani might have been behind her great-grandfather Piero, but “they were the ones running the company,” Rosita told her. Rosita and Tai had always firmly stood side by side.

Angela never finished her studies. At 19, when Vittorio bought a bigger home, she moved into his old apartment, less than five minutes away from the family compound but nevertheless a declaration of independence. At 23, she was pregnant with Margherita and told her mother she was getting married. While she occasionally worked for the company for pocket money, it was not until she was pregnant with Teresa, her third child, that Angela went to Tai and said she had decided to design a jewelry collection on her own. (Her marriage, to Marco Maccapani, lasted seven years. She has since been in a relationship with Bruno Ragazzi, a textile entrepreneur, for nearly two decades.)

“My father would never interfere in our lives,” Ms. Missoni said. “But when I decided I was not going to work for this company anymore, he said: ‘Whatever you want to do, think of this company like a large hat. You can do your own project here.’ He knew I had to do my own thing to get confidence.”

Angela remained with the company, designing children’s wear and accessories for licensees, and starting her own collection in the early 1990s. It included knits, but hers were in solid colors, and more about texture than patterns, as she wanted to do something different from the exotically patterned sweaters that retailers always expected to see at Missoni. And she was surprised one day when her mother came to her and said that she, too, was tired of repeating herself to please commercial interests.

“She asked if I had ever thought of doing the first line,” Ms. Missoni said, remembering the moment she realized her mother trusted her to design the collection that is shown on the runway. “And I felt proud that I could relieve her from feeling trapped in a zigzag cage.”

IT CAN STILL feel that way for Ms. Missoni, but she maintains her freedom, very much inspired by her parents. Her spring collection played down the zigzags and included a vintage logo that was hidden within the knitted patterns. It was a departure, and some Italian writers questioned whether the company had changed designers. Ms. Missoni, having found her confidence, sounded just like her mother when she said, “If I’m telling you it’s Missoni, trust me, it’s Missoni!”

“I know the history,” she said. “It is more than a zigzag.”

A few years ago, Margherita Maccapani Missoni, who left Sumirago to pursue an acting career in New York, called her mother and said she realized that as much as she loved acting, she did not want to live the life of an actress. She wanted to work in the company, and she wanted her own children to grow up the way she had. Margherita married Eugenio Amos, a childhood friend, last year, and moved back into the home where she was raised; Otto was born Sept. 6. Francesco, after studying architecture, also returned home, to write a cookbook about the Missoni family recipes and the memories they evoke.

Angela has always been a collector of lucky charms, but until this year, she said she had nothing to wish for. “I do remember once seeing a shooting star, and I wished that things would stay just like they are,” she said. Bad things happen, and good things, too, and that is what she offers to Vittorio’s sons, Ottavio Jr., Giacomo and Marco, instead of condolences.

“I knew we were very lucky in life,” she said. “I tell that to my nephews. We are so lucky. They are so lucky.”
772 2013-10-31 Roughly 22 million people age 60 and older have named someone in a power of attorney to make financial decisions for them, Ms. Karp said, and about four million adults on Social Security or Supplemental Security Income have representative payees; 85 percent are family members, without any professional experience acting on someone else’s behalf. Altogether, she said, there are “millions of laypeople acting as fiduciaries for family and friends.”

Most financial caregivers might mean well but might not know all the rules, she said, while others might take advantage of their access and enrich themselves with their charge’s funds.

“We hear a lot of stories about malfeasance on behalf of fiduciaries,” she said in a call with reporters. “We don’t think these guides will stop hardened criminals. But there are many people who don’t know the rules of the road and they need a little help.”

In addition to guides for power of attorney agents and representative payees, there are guides for those who have been appointed guardians by a court and for those named as trustees under “revocable living trusts.” In that situation, a person’s money or property has been transferred to a trust, and a person named as trustee has authority to make decisions about those assets.

The guides, developed with the American Bar Association’s Commission on Law and Aging, offer advice for those given authority over someone’s finances. Tips applicable to all cases include keeping your own funds separate from those of the person you’re helping, keeping good records of expenditures, paying bills on time and avoiding possible conflicts of interest. The guide has some examples, like hiring a relative to make repairs to the impaired person’s home and paying for the work out of their account; another, perhaps more obvious, is using the person’s funds to buy a car for yourself, even if you also use it to drive him or her to doctor’s appointments.

“It’s important for family members serving as a financial agent to know the extent and the limits to their authority,” said Sally Hurme, a lawyer with the AARP. “It’s hard for many folks to understand that when they have been given the authority over someone else’s money, it isn’t their money to spend as they wish.”

The consumer bureau says as a fiduciary you’re supposed to act honestly and in good faith. If you don’t, you can be removed from that position, sued, required to repay the money or even investigated by police and face jail time.

Here are some questions to consider when acting as a financial agent:

■ If I’m named as representative payee for my relative’s Social Security benefits, does that mean I can handle her other financial affairs too?

No. You only have the authority to manage the benefit checks of the agency that appointed you. To manage other financial affairs or property, you must have legal authority from another source, like a power of attorney (called “durable” power of attorney in some states).

■ Is a power of attorney the same thing as a health care power of attorney?

No. A health care power of attorney gives the named agent the authority to make medical decisions on behalf of someone else. More information about health care powers of attorney can be found on the American Bar Association website.

■ What if I think my relative is being financially exploited?

Contact your local Area Agency on Aging or adult protective services agency. You can find a list of these agencies, and others, by ZIP code, at www.eldercare.gov.
773 2013-10-31 For a time after the critically savaged opening of Luc Bondy’s gritty, spare and somewhat smarmy production of Puccini’s “Tosca” at the Metropolitan Opera in 2009, some nourished the forlorn hope that the Met would come to its senses and revive the immediate predecessor, by Franco Zeffirelli, widely beloved for its grand and hyper-realistic sets. But it is clear by now that the Bondy version — revived every year since its premiere and shorn of its worst excrescences, sexual and otherwise — is here for at least a while. So it is probably time to stop the comparisons and accept or reject it on its own terms.

If acceptance came slowly at the latest revival, on Tuesday evening, the reasons were more musical than theatrical. This though the main singers were all veterans of earlier outings in this production: Patricia Racette as Floria Tosca, the passionate vocal diva; Roberto Alagna as Mario Cavaradossi, the painter and Tosca’s lover; and George Gagnidze as Baron Scarpia, the cruel and grasping police commissioner and Tosca’s would-be lover.

A big part of the problem was the conducting of Riccardo Frizza, a newcomer to the production, who allowed the orchestra to ride over the singers in the first act and, to a lesser extent, throughout. All the singers, that is, except for Mr. Alagna.

Metal in the voice is one thing, but Mr. Alagna’s sound in the first act was sheer unalloyed steel, impressive in its amplitude but lacking in subtlety and with pitch soaring literally over the top a couple of times.

This blasting approach worked better in the scene of Cavaradossi’s torture in the second act. And in the third, Mr. Alagna rose to considerable flexibility in the shaping of words and lines.

Ms. Racette’s Tosca also improved throughout, though she started from the opposite vantage point: clean but colorless and uncharismatic in the first act. By her great aria “Vissi d’arte” in the second, despite some pitch problems there, she had warmed into a character of real dimension, which she continued to develop.
774 2013-10-31 Chrysler says that trailer hitches will protect the gas tanks, which are mounted behind the rear axle and are vulnerable to rear impacts, although Chrysler told the agency that a trailer hitch “cannot and will not mitigate the risk of high-energy rear collisions” but would “incrementally improve the performance” in “certain types of low-speed impacts.” There are no federal safety standards for trailer hitches.

A top Chrysler engineer testified in a deposition that the trailer hitch was not designed to protect the gas tank.

N.H.T.S.A. says it is aware of 51 deaths in rear-impact crashes that resulted in fires.

■  General Motors will recall nearly 3,200 manual transmission-equipped 2013-14 Chevrolet Cruze cars because the axle half-shafts might crack, the automaker informed N.H.T.S.A. G.M. says the steering and brakes would continue to function if such a failure occurred, but that there would be a loss of power. The automaker said its Korean parts supplier “may have been using an uncontrolled manufacturing process for the shafts.”

■  Bentley will recall 469 Continental GTs, GTCs and Flying Spurs from the 2007-11 model years for a brake problem. In a report to N.H.T.S.A., Bentley said that on vehicles equipped with carbon ceramic brakes on the rear wheels, the rotor mounting screws might rust and fail. If eight of the 10 screws were to fail, “there would be a loss of braking at that rear wheel. This may lead to a small increase in stopping distance.”

But the report said that at most, three screws had failed and that Bentley was not aware of any failures in the United States.

■  The brake problem plaguing Bentley also affects some Lamborghinis, which will be recalled in two actions. The automaker reported that one recall covered 263 Gallardos from the 2007-9 model years. The other covers 404 Murcielago cars from the 2006-10 model years.

■  Audi announced that it would recall about 1,100 A8 and S8 models from 2013-14 because the sunroof might shatter if “a door is slammed shut or if the vehicle experiences a sudden jolt such as when hitting a large bump or pothole in the road.”

■  Nissan will recall about 3,200 Titan and Armada trucks from the 2013 model year because of problems with the brake master cylinder, the automaker has informed N.H.T.S.A. The defect could reduce the braking efficiency of the front brakes, the automaker said.

Bentley, Audi, Lamborghini and Nissan each described their recalls as voluntary; however, once a manufacturer is aware of a safety problem it must – within five business days – inform the safety agency of its plan for a recall or face civil fines.
775 2013-10-31 John Grisham’s “Sycamore Row” revisits Clanton, Miss., the site of his first and still most famous book, “A Time to Kill.” Just three years have passed since young Jake Brigance crusaded his way through Clanton’s most racially inflammatory murder trial. It is 1988, and Jake now has a small practice, a big reputation and a housing problem created when Ku Klux Klan members torched his lovingly restored Victorian home.

Mr. Grisham does not seem to have revisited his most popular character for the usual writerly reason: desperation. The unstoppable Energizer Bunny of legal fiction, Mr. Grisham does not need to cannibalize old hits to create new ones. Instead, “Sycamore Row” sets Jake in the midst of what is now a historical novel, resurrecting the Clanton of 25 years ago. That gives the author a new perspective on the town’s racial tensions and a chance to resurrect Jake, who by now feels like an old friend. All it takes is one big twist of fate, and Jake is back on center stage.

The twist is the suicide of a wealthy white man named Henry Seth Hubbard. He had a will that made beneficiaries of his two grown children, Ramona and Herschel. But on the last day of his life, Hubbard supposedly changed his mind. An envelope is delivered to Jake’s office containing a final, handwritten will that reverses the first one. Hubbard’s primary beneficiary is now Lettie Lang, his housekeeper, who is black and spent a lot of time alone with him. And Hubbard anticipates his family’s outrage at this move. “These are not nice people and they will fight, so get ready,” he warns. “Fight them, Mr. Brigance, to the bitter end.”

The legal issues raised by two differing wills, and the smell of money, invite a large crew of eager lawyers into the fight. Mr. Grisham’s gift for manipulating and explicating legal battles makes this multifaceted one satisfyingly cagey. But a curious phenomenon makes it too easy to be distracted from a Grisham novel in its early stages, before the fight really gets rolling. It’s not the fault of Mr. Grisham’s clean and clear prose. It’s because he is accurately capturing all the tedium, repetition, red tape and soporific rhetoric with which lawyers contend. If they must plod through discovery and suffer death by deposition, readers do too.

Mr. Grisham knows what lawyers have been taught to do. More important, he also knows how they actually behave. Although “Sycamore Row” is a bit crude at first, treating Lettie as a long-suffering saint and the Hubbards as racists who neither know or care when they insult her, it snaps into shape as soon as Clantonites realize how high the stakes are in this fight. Lettie’s potential inheritance would make a black maid the richest woman in Mr. Grisham’s Ford County. And the Ford County of 1988 is not about to let that happen.
776 2013-10-31 Tama-who? Tamanu. Derived from nuts that grow on trees found mostly in Southeast Asia and the Polynesian Islands, this newly modish oil can heal scars, help skin repair itself and soften lines and wrinkles, say proponents. Below, three new products that contain it.

As the name suggests, the gel-like Chantecaille Total Concealer, available in seven shades, hides pesky dark circles and pimples. It has a smooth finish, and the tamanu nut oil in the formula, which also includes chamomile and green tea, is purportedly anti-inflammatory. At least it sounds good. ($37, chantecaille.com)

From the popular line of skin and hair products made from fruits and vegetables comes Yes to Blueberries Rejuvenating Body Lotion, a super-hydrating cream that contains not only blueberries, known to contain antioxidants, but also (you guessed it) the nut oil of the moment. ($9.99, www.yestocarrots.com)

The Burlington, Vt., brand known for its natural household and baby care products is venturing into the world of skin care with Seventh Generation Boosts, six varieties of plant-based serums. One particular cocktail, Revitalizing, contains rosehip oil, rosemary extract and tamanu, and is supposed to liven up dull complexions.  ($14.99, Walgreens)
777 2013-10-31 Are Halloween costumes an annual excuse to frighten or to offend?

Last Friday at a Halloween party in Beverly Hills, Calif., the actress Julianne Hough and several friends dressed up as the jailbird cast from the Netflix show “Orange Is the New Black.” Wearing an orange jumpsuit, Ms. Hough, who is blonde and blue-eyed, dressed as the character Crazy Eyes (played by the black actress Uzo Aduba) and smeared dark makeup on her face.

Photos surfaced on social media, and by Saturday morning, Ms. Hough issued an apology on Twitter, saying in part, “I realize my costume hurt and offended people and I truly apologize.” But not before there was widespread condemnation and media coverage. Moron, Martha Plimpton tweeted.

But was it racist? Ann Morning, a New York University associate professor of sociology who specializes in race, argues not. “Traditionally, blackface has been about broad negative stereotypes — it’s not about the individual at all,” she said. In Ms. Hough’s case, “She was trying to be as faithful as she could to the character.”

Others argue that Ms. Hough was merely celebrating a character who happens to be black. “I think this whole thing is overblown,” one commenter said on Twitter. “John Boehner is darker than you. All you did was bronze your skin.”

There was less sympathy when it came to the two Florida partygoers who dressed up as George Zimmerman and Trayvon Martin. Instagram photos of the costumes (one wore a T-shirt that read “Neighborhood Watch”; another was in blackface and wore a gray hoodie smeared with fake blood) were widely condemned as tasteless.

Also last weekend, several fashion designers wore black makeup and oversize white lips to a Halloween party in Milan. On Monday, one of the designers, Alessandro Dell’Acqua, posted an apology on Twitter, saying it was not his intention to be disrespectful or offensive.
778 2013-10-31 “We follow the science and act accordingly,” said John M. Vazquez, the senior vice president of Verizon for global real estate, human resources and administration.

James M. Callahan, an engineer and a vice president of Arcadis, which designed the barrier, said the wall’s height was determined by the six-foot flooding that can be expected during a 100-year storm, plus two feet for storm surge, plus one foot to account for the anticipated rise of sea levels by 2050.

The wall was fabricated, largely in North Dakota and Ohio, by Flood Control America. Verizon executives would not disclose its cost.

What is impressive about Verizon’s response to Hurricane Sandy is its self-interested timeliness. Last year’s storm has spawned enough studies, reports, projections, white papers and news releases to fill a few hundred sandbags.

As critical as long-term planning is, however, the question remains, what would happen if New York were hit by another such storm sooner rather than later?

This is what would happen at 140 West Street:

Most of the year, there will be almost no evidence of the wall except for footings that will be flush with the sidewalk. If the city’s Office of Emergency Management says that a distant storm may have destructive potential, Verizon will pull the barrier out of storage in South Plainfield, N.J. The numbered parts are to be kept in four big containers, one for each side of the building, on West, Barclay, Washington and Vesey Streets.

Over two or three days, the company will install the steel framework around the building. This consists of vertical steel posts and 45-degree steel braces. The posts will be bolted into the permanent footings and braced against the building by steel plates faced in rubber.

The wall will have 49 bays. In every bay, a dozen horizontal aluminum planks, each nine inches high, can be stacked up to form a solid barrier. The planks vary in length from 15 to 27 feet. They are notched top and bottom to nest in one another. The bottom of each plank is lined in a rubber gasket to create a virtually watertight seal.

Because the planks are nearly hollow extrusions, the shortest weigh only 75 pounds, while the longest weigh 135 pounds. They can be installed by a two-person crew.

For the first days before an impending storm, Verizon plans to keep about eight or 10 of the bays open, at the building’s two main entrances, at secondary exits and at the loading docks.

If the storm’s trajectory dictates evacuation, Verizon would fill the remaining bays with planks, leaving 140 West Street behind a dam. Two staircases would be installed to allow employees to get over the wall without having to scale it.

A small amount of leakage is expected through the wall, but sump pumps on the inner side will keep the space between barrier and building from becoming a moat.

Besides protecting equipment, the wall ought to offer some sense of security to the prospective occupants of condominium apartments planned in the upper 22 floors of the 31-story building by Benjamin Shaoul, of the Magnum Real Estate Group.

“Although a storm of Sandy’s magnitude is very rare,” Mr. Shaoul said in an email, “we want to ensure our buyers that we’ve taken every precaution.”
779 2013-10-31 “Just because we don’t see anything in the first run doesn’t mean we won’t see anything in the second,” said Richard Gaitskell, a professor of physics at Brown University and a spokesman for an international collaboration that operates the experiment known as LUX, for the Large Underground Xenon dark matter experiment.

As has become de rigueur for such occasions, the scientists took pride and hope in how clearly they did not see anything. “In 25 years of searching, this is the cleanest signal I’ve ever seen,” Dr. Gaitskell said in an interview.

That meant, the scientists said, that their detector was working so well that they would easily see a dark matter particle if and when it decided to drop by.

In this case, they had support from outside scientists. Neal Weiner, a particle theorist at New York University, called the results impressive.

“They have not found dark matter,” he said. “There is nothing smacking you in the face to make you think there is something there.” But as the sensitivity of the detector increases, he added, “If there is anything in there, it should become apparent.”

The announcement at the Homestake site capped a morning of ceremony, which included Gov. Dennis Daugaard of South Dakota and members of the State Legislature, at what amounted to a coming-out party for LUX and for the Sanford Underground Research Facility, a lab being developed in the old mine with a mix of state and private money, as well as support from the Energy Department. The lab is named after the philanthropist T. Denny Sanford, who donated $70 million to get it going.

LUX is the latest in a long series of ever-larger experiments that have occupied and taunted the world’s physicists over the last few years. They are all in abandoned mines or other underground places to shield them from cosmic rays, which could cause false alarms. Daniel McKinsey, an associate professor of physics at Yale and a spokesman for the LUX group, said in an interview that the biggest source of noise in the LUX device was trace radioactivity in the detector itself.

Larger instruments are already on the drawing boards of LUX and other collaborations, but physicists say the experiments are already sensitive enough to test some versions of dark matter that have been proposed, including the idea that dark particles interact with ordinary matter by exchanging the recently discovered Higgs boson. Dr. Weiner said he held his breath every time new results from a dark matter experiment were released.

Dark matter has teased and tantalized physicists since the 1970s, when it was demonstrated that some invisible material must be providing the gravitational glue to hold galaxies together. Determining what it is would provide insight into particles and forces not described by the Standard Model that now rules physics, not to mention a slew of Nobel Prizes.

Physicists’ best guess is that this dark matter consists of clouds of exotic subatomic particles left over from the Big Bang and known generically as WIMPs, for weakly interacting massive particles, which would weigh several hundred times as much as a proton but could nevertheless pass through the Earth like smoke through a screen door. They are a generic feature of a much-hyped idea known as supersymmetry.

Particle physicists have been hoping to produce these particles or other evidence of supersymmetry in the Large Hadron Collider outside Geneva or to read their signature in cosmic rays from outer space. No one has ever claimed to have seen such a heavy WIMP, in space or underground, but another experiment in another mine, the Cryogenic Dark Matter Search, claims to have recorded three events that could have been low-mass dark matter particles, only a few times heavier than a proton.

The new results from the Homestake mine, if they are correct, would rule out those low-mass particles. Dr. Gaitskell explained that if those particles were real, the Homestake detector would have recorded 1,550 of them.

“If there are 1,550 of them, boy are we going to see them,” he said in a presentation at the Homestake facility on Wednesday. “We do not see the low-mass WIMPS.”

But afterward, Juan I. Collar, a dark matter specialist at the University of Chicago who has been urging the community to take low-mass WIMPs seriously, questioned whether the LUX detector had been adequately calibrated to detect them.

“They do have a real interest in performing those calibrations, because they would settle the issue,” Dr. Collar said in an email. “We just have to be patient. At the end they promised to do so, and I have no doubts they will.”

For now, a quarter of the universe is still missing in action.
780 2013-10-31 The $680 billion shortfall for the 2013 fiscal year is equivalent to 4.1 percent of the country’s gross domestic product, down from a peak of 10.1 percent in 2009, months into Mr. Obama’s first year and at the height of the recession and financial crisis. Economists generally consider that growing economies can sustain annual deficits of about 3 percent of G.D.P.

According to Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew and the budget director, Sylvia Mathews Burwell, the trend of declining deficits reflects higher revenues from a recovering economy and savings from deficit reduction measures previously negotiated between Mr. Obama and congressional Republicans.

Those measures were projected to reduce annual deficits by about $2.7 trillion over 10 years. Roughly a quarter of that is from higher taxes on the wealthy, effective this year. The spending cuts are affecting nearly all federal programs, domestic and military, but not the entitlement benefit programs like Medicare whose growth is driving economists’ projections that annual deficits will begin increasing again by the end of this decade, ultimately unsustainably.

The sequestration cuts, which took effect in March when the two parties could not reach a broader agreement on entitlement programs and tax breaks, are coming on top of the earlier spending reductions, and have forced cutbacks and closures in national parks, scientific research, education, military training exercises and much more.

If sequestration were to remain in place for a full nine years, the spending reductions would reduce deficits in that time by another $1.2 trillion — and lower spending for the affected programs from agriculture to transportation to the lowest levels on record. But neither party intended sequestration to take effect; they devised the idea in 2011 as a threat that would drive both parties to compromise on alternative savings — taxes and entitlement changes — to reduce future deficits.

While in his budget in April Mr. Obama proposed a 10-year plan to replace sequestration cuts, congressional Democrats and Republicans are aiming lower, seeking a deal that is realistically achievable before the negotiators’ Dec. 13 deadline. That would probably be a one-year accord, both sides say, or two years at best, and would seek alternative savings to replace the roughly $110 billion a year in sequestration cuts.

The conference committee was created as part of the deal reached this month between the White House and Congress to reopen the government after a 16-day shutdown and to raise the nation’s legal borrowing limit. The Dec. 13 deadline is intended to give the House and Senate time to translate any agreement into spending bills for financing government operations after current funding runs out Jan. 15. Failure would bring another unpopular shutdown.

The 29-member conference committee convened with bipartisan conciliation that nonetheless could not conceal the parties’ longstanding divide on taxes and entitlement programs. Aides will now begin fleshing out possible areas of agreement ahead of the next formal meeting in two weeks, Nov. 13, though leaders will hold private talks.

“I’m ready to make some tough concessions to get a deal, but compromise runs both ways,” said Senator Patty Murray of Washington, the chairwoman of the Senate Budget Committee and the Democrats’ lead negotiator. “While we scour programs to find responsible savings, Republicans are also going to have to work with us to scour the bloated tax code — and close some wasteful tax loopholes and special interest subsidies, because it is unfair and unacceptable to ask seniors and families to bear this burden alone.”

The Republicans’ lead negotiator, Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, countered that any changes to the tax code should be left to negotiations in the Senate and House tax-writing committees — an effort that is not expected to yield agreement anytime soon — and not to the budget negotiations.

“If this conference becomes an argument about taxes, we’re not going to get anywhere,” Mr. Ryan said.

Among the potential areas for alternative savings are farm subsidies and federal pensions. But Democrats in Congress do not want to set a precedent that program cuts alone will substitute for sequester savings in future years; they want some revenue increases as well, especially as Republicans demand relief for military spending.

“If you want to start replacing the defense sequester,” said Representative Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland, “you have to start looking at some special interest tax breaks.”
781 2013-10-31 But federal prosecutors and investigators insisted Wednesday that they had uncovered extensive misuse of visas at Infosys. They said they agreed to the settlement because Infosys had cooperated with the investigation and moved speedily to overhaul its record-keeping and improve its visa procedures.

“While Infosys is not admitting any wrongdoing, its leadership did appreciate there were substantial problems in the way they were conducting business in this country,” said John Malcolm Bales, the United States attorney for the Eastern District of Texas, in Plano. “We think they’ve cleaned up their act.”

Each year there is a scramble among technology companies for H-1B employment visas, because there is a basic annual cap of 65,000 visas. In the past three years, Infosys and two other Indian companies — Wipro and Tata Consultancy Services — were among the top five recipients of those visas, according to Ron Hira, a professor at Rochester Institute of Technology who studies the visa system.

The largest user, Cognizant, is an American company that brought in nearly 18,000 foreign workers, almost all from India, Mr. Hira said.

American technology companies have been clamoring for an increase in H-1B visas, saying they face shortages of Americans with advanced skills. A large increase was part of broad immigration legislation that passed the Senate in June, and there is also a measure to raise the limits before the House of Representatives. But the Senate bill also included new protections for Americans that would make it more difficult for foreign outsourcing companies to bring in temporary workers.

It is not clear whether Congress will take further action on those bills this year.

In recent years Congress has sharply raised visa fees for foreign outsourcing companies while immigration authorities imposed new regulations to limit the movement of foreign technology workers in the United States.

“In the past few years there has been a real assault by the federal government on the information technology consulting industry, and it has hit the Indian companies particularly hard,” said Avram Morell, an immigration lawyer in New York.

Infosys has vigorously disputed the government’s accusations. Mr. Jonas, the company’s lawyer, said the government had failed to prove that foreign workers on business visitor visas, known as B-1, were doing any work that was not authorized under their visas. He said no evidence had emerged that any foreign workers ever remained in the United States after their visas had expired.

Since 2011, Infosys put in place new record-keeping and visa procedures and later placed new limitations on the activities in the United States of B-1 visitor visa holders, improvements that were acknowledged in the settlement.

But federal investigators said Wednesday that they had uncovered numerous cases in which Infosys had brought in Indian workers on B-1 visas, to do work not allowed under that visa. Investigators from the State Department and the Department of Homeland Security examined 6,500 B-1 visas Infosys had used to bring in Indian workers over five years.

“The vast majority were illegitimate,” said George M. Nutwell, a special agent in charge of the State Department Diplomatic Security Service in Houston. Investigators went to the American companies where the B-1 workers were placed and discovered they were doing programming and technology engineering work similar to H-1B workers. The business visitor visa is primarily for attending training sessions and meetings, not for work.
782 2013-10-31 LONDON — The prosecution opened its case on Wednesday at a phone hacking trial here, telling the jury of nine women and three men that four people involved with The News of the World had already pleaded guilty to phone hacking and that he would prove that the illegal acts were “a conspiracy” approved by some of those on trial now, including two former editors, Rebekah Brooks and Andy Coulson.

Ms. Brooks and Mr. Coulson, along with the other four defendants in this trial, have denied guilt, and the case is expected to take up to six months to conclude.

Opening the case, Andrew Edis, a prosecutor, said, “We will be able to show that there was phone hacking at The News of the World” and jurors had to decide “who knew.”

Mr. Edis identified those who pleaded guilty at an earlier stage in the proceedings as three journalists — The News of the World’s former chief correspondent, Neville Thurlbeck; a former assistant news editor, James Weatherup; and a former news editor, Greg Miskiw — and Glenn Mulcaire, a private detective hired by the newspaper, now defunct.

Those pleas, Mr. Edis said, showed that “there was a conspiracy which involved a significant number of people.”